372

SUPREME COURT.
Harrison v. Vose.

that the same had been presented to the defendant or his authorized agent, such would be a demand in writing under the
terms of the article 1905 of the Louisiana Code.
"To which opinion and charge of the court the defendant,
through his counsel, excepted."
But in the argument this exception did not appear to be relied on, and could not be successfully, as the sale, by the evidence, seems to have been in writing, the order to receive the
article sold in writing, and this order presented, dnd a refusal
indorsed on it, in writing.
On the whole case, then, the judgment below must be affirmed, with damages at the rate of six per cent.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District

of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at the
rate of six per centum per annum.

ROBERT

M. HARRISON, UNITED STATES CONSUL, PLAINTIFF, V.
GEORGE C. VosE.

An act of Congress passed on the 28th of February, 1803 (2 Stat. at Large, 203),
declares that "it shall be the duty of every master or commander of a ship or vessel belonging to citizens of the United States, on his arrival at a foreign port, to
deposit his register, sea-letter, a~d Mlediterranean passport with the consul, commercial agent, or vice commercial agent, if any there be, at such port. In case of
refusal or neglect of the said master or commander to deposit the papers as aforesaid, he shall forfeit and pay.S500."
The arrival here spoken of means an arrival for purposes of business, requiing an
entry and clearance and stay at the port so long as to require some of the hets
connected with business; and not merely touching at a port for advices. or to ascertain the state of the market, or being driven in by an adverse wind and sailing
agaia as soon as it changes.
Therefore, when a vessel arrived at the harbour of Kingston, Jamaica, and came to
anchor at about a quarter of a mile from the town, but did not go up to the town,
nor come to an entry, nor discharge any part of her cargo, nor take in pas.engers
or cargo at Kingston, nor do any business except to communicatc With the consignees, by whom the master was informed that his cargo was sold, dcliverable at
Savannah la Mar, the master was not liable to the penalty for omitting to deliver his papers to the consul.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Maine, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

373

Harrison v. Vose.

It was an action of debt for the penalty of five hundred dollars imposed by the statute (2 Stat. at Large, 203) which will
be presently quoted, brought in the Circuit Court for Maine, in
the name of Mr. Harrison, United States Consul at Kingston,
in the island of Jamaica, against George C. Vose, master of the.
brig Openango.
By the second section of the act of 28th February, 1803, entitled "An act supplementary to the act concerning consuls
and vice-consuls, and for the further .protection of American
seamen," it is enacted :-" That it shall be the duty of every
master or commander of a ship or vessel, belonging to citizens
of the United States, who shall sail from any port of the United
States after the first day of May next, on his arrival at a foreign port, to deposit his register, sea-letter, and Mediterranean
passport with the consul, vice-consul, commercial agent, or vice
commercial agent (if any there be at such port); that in case
of refusal or neglect of the said master or commander to deposit
the said papers as aforesaid, he shall forfeit and pay five hundred dollars, to be recovered by the said consul, vice-consul,
commercial agent, or vice commercial agent, in his own name,
for the benefit of the United States, in any court of competent
jurisdiction; and it shall be the duty of such consul, vice-consul, commercial agent,- or vice commercial agent, on such master or commander producing to him a clearance from the proper
officer of the port where his ship or vessel may be, to deliver
to the said master or commander all of his said papers. Provided, such master or commander shall have complied with the
provisions contained in this act, and those of the act to which
this is a supplement."
The action was brought at the October term, 1847. Vose
appeared and pleaded nil debet, and the cause came on for trial
at the same term.
The facts in proof in the case were as follows.
The brig Openango, belonging to citizens of the United
States, George C. Vose (the defendant) master, sailed from.
Eastport, in the State of Maine, in the month of July, 1844,
with a cargo of lumber, consigned to Messrs. Darrell & Barclay,
merchants, of Kingston, in the island of Jamaica, and arrived
at Port Royal, in the harbour of Kingston aforesaid, on the 4th
day of September of the same year, and came to anchor at
about a quarter of a mile from the town, but did not go up to
the town, nor come to an entry, nor discharge any part of her
cargo, nor take in cargo or passengers at Kingston, nor do any
business, except to communicate with his consignees ; by
VOL. IX.
32

374

SUPREME -COURT.
Harilson .v. Vose.

whom the master of said brig was informed that his cargo was
sold, deliverable at Savannah la Mar.
The defendant on his arrival at Kingston, or at any time
while said brig lay at anchor at Kingsion, did not deposit his
register, sea-letter, or Mediterranean passport with the plaintiff,
who was the United States Consul at said port of Kingston at
the time of the arrival of said brig there, as aforesaid.
After communicating with said consignees, the master of said
brig, on the 5th day of said month of September, sailed in said
brig from said port of Kingston to a place in said island of
Jamaica called Savannah la Mar, where she arrived in due
season, came to an entry, discharged her cargo, and where the
said master deposited the register, sea-letter, and passport aforesaid with the vice-consul of the United States at said place
called Savannah la Mar. One of the defendant's witnesses testified, that said brig arrived at Kingston in the afternoon of the
4th of September, and sailed from Kingston the next morning
after her arrival there, and as soon as the wind would permit.
It was in proof, from one of the Kingston pilots, that the
master of a vessel arriving at Kingston is compelled by law to
report his arrival at the cust m-house, whether his cargo had
been previously sold, deliverable at another port, or not, but
was under no necessity of coming to an entry
At the trial, the following question occurred upon the foregoing testimony, to wit:Whether it was the duty of the defendant, who was master
or commander of the ship or vessel called the Openango, on his
arrival at Kingston, in the island of Jamaica, to deposit his
register, sea-letter, and Mediterranean passport with the United
States Consul at said port.
Upon which question, the judges of the said Circuit Court
were opposed in opinion; and thereupon, upon the motion of
the District Attorney, for and in behalf of the United States, it
was - ordered by the court, that the said question, ulion wb;ch
the said judges were so opposed, should be certified, under the
seal of the court, to the Supreme Court of the United States, at
their next session, for a final decision.
LEvi WoODBURY,

Associate Justice of Supreme Court.
AsHutr WARE,

District .Judge.
The cause was argued by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General),
for the plaintiff, no counsel appearing for the defendant.
Mr. Johnson said, that upon this question the opinions of

JANUARY

TERM, 1950.

375

Harrison v. Vose.

two courts below have been conflicting, and the present case
has been brought up to have the true construction of the act
settled. The cases are Toler v. White, Ware, 277, and Parsons v. Hunter, 2 Sumner, 419.
As bearing upon the question, the court is referred to the following acts. Collection Act of 10th August, 1790, § 16 et seq.
(1 Statutes at Large, 158); Act concerning the Registering and
Recording of Vessels (Ibid. 292); Coasting Trade Act, % 3,
15, 17, and 22 (Ibid. 306); United States v. Shackford, 5 Mason, 445.
There are also hereto annexed copies of two opinions given
in the Attorney-General's office in relation to this subject.
"Attorney-General's Oice, June 11, 1846.
"HON. J"xAs BucHANAiq, Secretary of State.
"Sir, - I have had the hoilor to receive your communication of the 16th April last, with a letter from the United States
Consul at Nassau, asking my opinion on-the question presented
by the consul.
"He states, ' that his instructions to his agents have been
to this effect, that any voluntary arrival at their ports obliges
the master of the vessel upon his arrival to deposit his register,
whether such arrival be for advices or not, or whether the vessel comes to an entry or not, and without respect to her.remaining twenty-four hours, or any definite time, or not.' And the
question presented for consideration is, Are those instructions
warranted by law ?
"By the second section of the act of 28th February, 1803,
it is made the duty of every master of a vessel, belonging to citizens of the United States, who shall sail from any part of the
United States, on his arrival at a foreign port, to deposit his
register, sea-letter, or Mediterranean passport with the consul,
vice-consul, or commercial agent, if any there be at such port.
In case of refusal or neglect, he is subjected to a penalty of five
hundred dollars. And the same section makes it the duty of
such consul, vice-consul, or commercial agent, 'on such laster or commander producing to him a clearance, from the proper officer of the port where his ship or vessel may be, to deliver to the said master or commander all of his said papers.'
"Taking the whole section together, it is very obvious that
Congress required the papers of an American vessel in a foreign
port to be delivered to the consul only where it was necessary
to make an entry at the custom-house. It is on the master's
producing a clearance that the consul is to return him his papers, and there can be no clearance where there is no entry.

376

SUPREME COURT.
Harrison v. Vose.

If an American vessel arrive at her port of discharge, or if, for
any reason other than the purpose of trading with the whole or
portion of her cargo, she shall remain so long that by the law
of the country an entry is required, she must enter at the custom-house of such port, and in all such cases the master must
deposit his register. But the law does not extend the duty beyond this. A requisition of a deposit of papers, in all cases of
arrival, where by the local laws an entry is not necessary, and
where there is no trading or purpose to trade, might add to consular emoluments, but would prove extremely embarrassing to
the navigating interest. The object of the law is to compel
masters of vessels belonging to American owners, sailing from
American ports, to respect our own laws, and those of the foreign countries to whose ports they may go for the purpose of
trade; and this object is attained by requiring them to exhibit
the evidence of their being lawful traders to our consuls, at the
ports where they have to enter. Beyond this, neither the law
nor good policy requires that their duty shall extend.
"I have the honor to be, respectfully, Sir, your obedient
servant,
JNlo. Y. MASON."
"Attorney- General's Office, September 26, 1849.
"HON. JOHN M. CLAYTON, Secretary of State.
" Sir, - The question you have submitted to this office,
upon the letter of F. H. Whitmore, Esq., of New Haven, Connecticut, of the 10th September, 1849, 'respecting the demand
made by the United States commercial agent at St. Thomas,
in all casc3 of the arrival at that port of an American vessel,
whether business is or is not done by her, that the register,
&c., be deposited with him,' I have considered.
" The legality of the demand depends uipon the proper construction of the second section of the act of Congress of the
28th February, 1803, supplementary to the ' Act concerning
consuls and vice-consuls, and for the further protection of
American.seamen.' 2 Statutes at Large, 203.
"By the words of the first part of the section, the master of
an American vessel, sailing from a port in the United States, is
required to deposit his register, sea-letter, and Mediterranean
passport, ' upon his arrival at a foreign port,' with the American consul, &c., &c., if there be one at such port. The duty,
regarding this part of the section, only exists upon arrival,
without reference to its object, and whether it be voluntary
and for business, or otherwise. But the subsequent part qualifies, I think, the general words of the first. It is in the pro-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

377

Harrison v. Vose.

vision that the consul, &c., on the master's 'producing to him
a clearance from the proper officer of the port where his ship or
vessel may be,' shall deliver to him 'all of his said papers.'
Construing the two clauses together, I think the true meaning
of the whole is, that there is to be no deposit of the papers
upon an arrival, unless it be an arrival with a view to entry, or
where by the local law an entry is required. Where either exists, my opinion is, the deposit with the consul, &c., is to be
made; and of course it is the duty of the consul to demand it.
It will be seen, I think, that in this view of the case I but concur in the opinion to which you refer, of Mr. Attorney-General
Mason, of the 1Ith of June, -1845.
"After quoting the section of the act in question, he says,
'Taking the whole together, it is obvious that Congress required the papers, &c., to be delivered to the consul only when
it was necessary to make ahl entry at the custom-house'; and
therefore, ' if an American vessel arrive at her port of discharge,
or if, for any reason other than the purpose of trading with the
whole or portion of her cargo, she shall remain so long that, by
the law of the country, she must enter at the custom-house of
such port,' the deposit must be made.
"Interpreting the section as I do, to require the deposit only
when an entry is to be made, he makes it the duty of the master, as I do, to deposit, in case of entry in port, without regard
to the manner or object of its being made' The motive for
the deposit is, I think, the same in all cases of-actual entry, and
the trouble and duty of the consul, &c., the same. He is in
both cases to take charge of the vessel's papers, and to hold
them until she is again cleared; and for the trouble of receiving,
preserving, and delivering them (of each of which acts he is to
give a certificate under seal), he is entitled to charge two dollars. See chapter 8, section 7, of General Instructions to Consuls, of the 6th June, 1849.
"The result, then, to which I come is this, that the commercial agent at St. Thomas, in the case of all American vessels arriving there, and remaining so long as by the local regulation to be obliged to enter, and afterwards to clear, is entitled, and it is his duty to demand, the surrender of their papers, under the act of 1803, no matter what may be the motive
of the entry, whether from business or not.
"I have the honor to be, Sir, your obedient servant,
" REVERDY JOHNSON."

Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in 32
this case, on which the judges below have
*

SUPREME COURT.
Harrison v. Vose.

presented a difference in opinion, is one of commercial importance, and of no little difficulty.
The provisions in the act of Congress of February 28, 1803,
under which the penalty is claimed by the plaintiff from the
defendant, declare, "that it shall be the duty of every master
or commander of a ship or vessel belonging to citizens of the
United States," "1on his arrival at a foreign port, to deposit his
register, sea-letter, and Mediterranean passport with the consul,
vice-consul, commercial agent, or vice commercial agent, if any
there be at such port." 2 Statutes at Large, 203, § 2.
The law then adds, "that in case of refusal or neglect of the
said master or commander to deposit the said papers as aforesid, he shall forfeit and pay $ 500." There is no clew in this
act itself to the meaning of the word arrival, or to the object and design of the act, so as to judge whether it has or has
not'in this instance been violated, except another provision in
the close'of the same section, that the consul shall, "1on such.
magtetr or -commander producing to him a clearance from the
-ploprAofficer of the port where his ship or vessel )nay be, deliver -to the said- master or commander all of his said papers,
provided such master- or commander shall have complied.with
the provisions contained in this act and those of the act. to
which this is a supplement."
Of course, we must in this, as in all cases, begin the inquiry
with the presumption that the defendant is innocent, and that
"the burden of proof to make out the guilt devolves on the
plaintiff. In the construction of a penal statute, it is well
settled, also, that all reasonable doubts concerning its meaning ought to operate in favor of the respondent. In the
United States v. Shackford, 5 Mason, 445, Justice Story says,
" It -would be highly inconvenient, not to say .unjust, to make
every doubtful phrase a'drag-net for penalties." (p. 450.)
'This principle of construction does not make an exception in
the act not made by Congress, as is Sometimes objected, but it
recognizes a limitation allowed or required by the act itself, in
order to give to it what it- must izeasonably be suppose(, the
legislature dsigned, a natural and obvious intent. Thus, no
law of Congress could ever be properly construed as an in.tention to punish involuntary acts, such as what is done by torce
of a storm or .an enemy.
It .is settled, too,, that, where penalties are to be recovered,
"greater fulness of evidence is necessary to make out such a case
aa the-law contemplates. United States v. Wilson, 1 Baldwin,
C. C. 101; Greenleaf ohi Ev., § 65. The proof must, then,
bring a transaction within the spirit as well as letter of the law,
and must usually-show a plain breach of both.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

379

Harrison v. Vose.

In The Enterprise, 1 Paine, C. C. 32, it is said, that one
shall not incur a penalty in cases of doubt, and courts should
not extend a construction beyond what is clear in such cases.
See further on this, Taber's case, 1 Story, 6; and 1 Story,
255 and 256; and Sloop Elizabeth, 1 Paine, C. C. 11.
Taking this rule of construction with us, the inquiry is,
whether the words "arrival at a foreign port," as used in the
first portion of the second section, and on which arrival the
master is to deposit his papers, mean any touching at a foreign
port for any time, however short, or for any purpose or reason
whatever, or only an arrival to transact commercial business,
followed in due time by an entry of the vessel.
Sometimes the arrival of a vessel refers, undoubtedly, to her
coming into a port from any cause, or for any purpose, and for
any period. It is admitted that this may be the literal and
general meaning of the term with lexicographers, but in several
cases it is used to denote a coming in for certain special objects
of business, and to be followed by remaining there so long as
to render an entry of the vessel proper, and a deposit of her
papers with a consul prudent and useful.
Thus it is, as to an arrival of a vessel, when she enters a
port or harbour in order to close an outward or inward voyage.
It is usually a coming to the place of the vessel's destination
for her business, and waiting to transact it. It is with a view
to stop over twenty-four or forty-eight hours, so as to be obliged
by express law or general usage to enter the- vessel and cargo,
or to sell, or deliver, or purchase a cargo. It is under such pircumstances as seem likely to need a consul's advice or assistance, and as give time to come properly under his supervision
and jurisdiction.
Which of these ideas was meant by the legislature to be attached to the word "arrival," in this law, is the chief question
to be ascertained. If it was the latter meaning, namely, an
arrival for business, and to remain long enough to make an
entry and clearance proper, then the respondent does not appear to have violated the'Npirit of the act of Congress, though
in other senses of the word his vessel had arrived temporarily
at the port of Kingston.
On examination, the words arrive and arrival,when used in
respect to matters of this kind in acts of Congress, will, in sev-.
eral instances, appear to be used in the last sense, as applicable
only to an arrival to enter and clear for business. Thus, in the
thirteenth section of the act of December 31, 1792, the requirement that a temporary register of a vessel, instead of one lost,
shall be delivered up "within ten days after her first arrival

380

SUPREME COURT.
Harrison v. Vose.

within the district to whicl she belongs," means, not touching
or inquiring only, but arriving. to enter and transact business.

(Ware, 281.)
So in the thirty-first section of the Collection Act, customhouse officers may board a vessel within four leagues of 'the
coast and put seals on boxes, &c., " and if, upon her arrivalat
the port of her entry," they are found broken, &c., a penalty is
incurred. (1 Stat. at Large, 165.) This 'manifestly means an
arrival to enter for business
It is wtell known, that such has always' been the practical
construction of the act of Congress of 1803, by the mercantile
and navigating community, and hence, for a quarter of a century
after its passage, no case of a prosecution for violating it appears in the books. Indeed, it has been judicially settled in 5
Mason, 446, before cited, that the word arrival,as used in that
case, which was very analogous, means an'arrival for such a
business purpose. There the third section of the act of 1793,
ch. 52,. provided'that a temporary register should, "within ten
days after the arrival of such ship or vessel within the district
to which she belongs, be delivered to the collector of said district, and be by him cancelled."
The vessel in that case belonged to Eastport, and was destined to New York, with a, cargo from New Brunswick, and
after sailing 'arrived and stopped two hours in the District of
Passamaquoddy, including Eastport, for a tide, and put ashore
same passengers and took in others, and then departed for New
* York, her place of final destination; but she did not enter or
clear, and was held not to come within the above penal provision.
Beside these analogies, showing the restricted meaning attached to the word arrival in several laws connected with
navigation, the latter clause of this very act of 1803 contains
a provision on this subject, which indicates clearly the design
that the arrival must be one so long, and with such a purpose,
as to require an entry of the vessel.
In construing all statutes, the whole of them- must be scrutinized in order to decide on the meaning of particular parts.
11 Mod. 161; Stowell v. Zouch, Plowden, 365; 8 Mod. 8;
Bac. Abr., Statute, I. 2'; Co. Lit. 381, a. This eviscerates the
true meaning from the law itself, - ex visceribus actus.
In the other portion of this- section, after the provision that
the papers be delivered to the consul on the arrival of the vessel,
he is required to return them only "on " such master or commander producing to him a clearance from the proper officer
of the port where'his -ship or vessel may be." Yet such a

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

8i

Harrison v. Vose.

clearance cannot be produced unless the vessel has first entered
at the custom-house. Hence the conclusion seems irresistible,
that it was not designed to require the master to deliver his
papers to the consul, unless arriving with a view to enter his
vessel for the transaction of business, and stopping so long as to
render such an entry proper for security of the rev6nue and the
supervision of the consul over her business and crew.
The acts of Congress do not make such entry imperative, in
most cases, till after twenty-four hours, and in some, not till'
forty-eight hours (1 Stat. at Large, 158; § 16). The rule as to
this abroad is probably similar; and as this vessel stopped for a
less time, and.did no business there, she does not appear to have.
been required by the local authorities to enter, nor did the
master enter her of his own accord. Consequently, no clearance could be presented to the consul to obtain his papers, if
they had been delivered, and therefore it does not seem to have
been a case contemplated for such a delivery.
-Again, a vessel is not considered to arrive, so as to be regarded as importing her cargo, unless she arrives within a port
and with an intent to enter the cargo. United States v. Lyman, 1 Mason, C. C. 482. It is not enough to come within
the limits of the district. United States v. Yowell, 5 Cranch,
372.
So the acts of Congress expressly provide, that she need not
enter at a port where she arrives, if she desires t6 go farther to
an interior port. Act of 4th August, 1790,- § 15 (1 Stat. at
Large, 158).
Nor does the master appear in this case to have forborne to
enter and afterwards obtain a clearance from any fraud or evasion. He did not stop the usual time to require an entry, he
needed no entry as he found that he had no business to transact
there, he wanted no aid or advice of the consul, nor did his
crew, so far as the evidence goes, and he might well, under such
circumstavees, proceed farther to his finally destined port, without incurring the expenses of an entry and clearance, and the
payment of tonnage duties, merely to enable him to deliver his
papers to the consul, and immediately receive them back again.
The proviso of the act seems to indicate that the papers are
delivered to the consul chiefly as security for two purposes;
viz. the payment of extra wagf s to seamen discharged, and
the taking on board destitute seamen when bound home ; and
hence, if the master does not perform what is thus required, he
is not entitled to his papers again, even after an entry and
clearance. But as no seamen were discharged here, and as
this vessel was not bound homeward, there was no public duty

SUPREME COURT.
Harrison v. Vose.

or policy of this kind to be attained, by showing her papers to
the consul. Nor does it appear that the crew had any grievances to lay before him, which were thus delayed. Indeed, the
vessel sailed only a few miles farther, to a neighbouring port,
and entered there, where every consular protection and redress
were equally open and could equally subserve any public end of
this kind in view in enacting the law now under consideration.
And while we feel a strong disposition to shield seamen from
oppression, and will go for that purpose, in proper cases, to any
extent justifiable by law, we must take care that what is intended as a shield to one class shall not be perverted, without
justification, into a weapon to vex and burden another class
alike meritorious.
It is conceded that a consul is the chief representative and
agent of his country in most foreign ports, and as such is to be
resorted to by his countrymen. But when a vessel has arrived
so as to be required to deposit her papers with him, it would
seem to be reasonable that she must intend to stay long enough
to need or allow the exercise of some of his functions. Those
functions are principally to watch over our trade, - actual exports and imports; to exercise jurisdiction in some respects over
American vessels and seamen abroad; sometimes of a judicial
character (3 Taunt. 162), when they stop and come ashore, or
to transmit information home in relation to them.
To be sure, he has a few other duties to perform. But most
of them are disconnected with this subject ; - as, to take care
of American property, either wrecked or belonging to deceased
persons; to exercise at times even diplomatic functions; to aid
his eQuntrymen in scientific researches; to transmit periodical
advices on every thing beneficial to trade or the arts, and, in all
emergencies among strangers, to act as the friend and agent of
commercial visitors from his own country. Yattel, Law of
Nations, Consuls; Warden's Consular Establishments; 2 Elliot's Am. Dip. Code, 454; 7 Peters, 276; Bee's Adm. 209;
1 Statutes at Large, 254, and note; 10 Wheat. 66; 1 Mason,
14 ; 1 McCulloch's Dict., Consul, 465 -467; 2 Beawes's Lex
Mercatoria, 42.
The first class of duties may have furnished some reasons for
requiring that the papers of vessels be lodged with the consu.
after an arrival to stay and transact business, and that they remain with the consul till the vessel's clearance. All of that
class look to an arrival for purposes of business, - to an entry
and clearance, and to a stay there so long as to require some
of the acts connected with it, and to need or permit the interference of the agent of their country in some of. his appropriate

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

383

Harrison v. Vose.

functions, and especially to enable him to report underatandingly that her trade, or her imports and exports, are on American account, and are of a certain value and character.
Again, if a vessel on touching at a port for advices merely, or
to ascertain the state of the market, and sailing again forthwith
on obtaining them, or on being driven in by an adverse wind
and sailing again when it changes, were considered as obliged to
send her boat on shore and report to the consul, with her'pap r..
often with unnecessary delay, and always with no object ex-.
cept mere information of her existence at a particular date, the
law would be very burdensome without any adequate equivalent. More especially is this the case when this general information can be got and communicated without depositing the
papers. If they must be left, they must frequently be lodged,
and be forthwith taken back, and a clearance be obtained,
though no entry had been made for business nor wished to be
made.
Again, if this must be done whenever a vessel merely touches
for a few hours on the outskirts of a port, where the city is ten,.
thirty, or one hundred miles up a river or bay at which the
consul resides, - which is frequently the case, - the provision
would be oppressive in the extreme. It might by needless delays defeat the whole benefits of the voyage, and sometimes
lead to a loss of the insurance by those delays, or by deviations.
It would cause much unnecessary expense in fees and tonnage
duties and port charges, which Congress could never have
meant to impose, when no business was to be transacted. It
would embarrass and clog, rather than aid, commerce, which
last is peculiarly the design and policy of legislation by the
general government on this vital subject.
In some acts of Congress, it is expressly recognized as an
excuse from a penalty in respect to a matter like this, if the
vessel desires to go farther, to an interior port, or is driven
about by stress of weather, by chase of an enemy, or any
11other necessity," not saying whether volun'tary or involuntary. (I Stat. at Large, 158, 160, 167.)
And it would seem reasonable, not only to construe these
penal acts as not designed for such cases, but to regard them as
not meant for a touching merely to seek or give information,
or to obtain a slight repair, or needed supplies, if it can be
done, and the vessel can depart, before law or usage requires an
entry.
If any doubt remains, that the arrival spoken of in this act
was one to require an entry and clearance in connection with
the delivery of the papers to the consul, it should be removed

384

SUPREME COURT.
Harrison v. Vose.

by the provisions in the act of March 3d, 1817, made in pari
wnateria (3 Statutes at Large, 362). Information thus obtained from similar sources is entitled to much weight. 1 Burrows, 447; Doug. 276; 15 Johns. 380. This statute enacts,
that foreign vessels, arriving from countries where our consuls
are allowed to have charge of the papers of an American
vessel in port, must deposit with their consuls here their
papers, within forty-eight hours after their entry; and that
they be returned, when the master " produces to him (the
consul) a clearance in due form from the collector of the port,"
&c.
Had Congress in this act, or in that under consideration in
the present action, meant that the papers should be delivered
to the consul whic no entry of the vessel was contemplated,
why was not the provision made to deliver them before entry
instead of afterwards, and to return them when she was ready
to sail; and not on producing a clearance?.
Our view, then, is, that the term arrival,as used in this act,
must be construed according to the subject-matter, - to the
object of the provision and the expressions in other sections of
this act aid in other like acts ; and that, according to all these,
a vessel putting into a foreign port to get information, and getting it without going at all to the upper harbour or wharfs, and
not entering, or repairing, or breaking bulk, or discharging seamen, or being bound homewards so as to take seamen, or needing the aid of a consul in any respect, but leaving the port in
a 'few hours, not doing any of these, nor being required to, and
duly entering and delivering her cargo at a neihbouring port
where it had been sold, and there depositing her papers with
the vice-consul, cannot be said to have arrived at the first
port, so as to come within the spirit of the penal provision, as
to depositing her papers with the ,consul. So far as regards
precedents on this matter, the actual decisions of one court and
the opiniong of two Attorneys-General are in favor of our conclusion; (see the case of Toler v. White, in Ware, D. C. 275;)
while the decision in Parsons v. Hunter, 2 Sumn6r, 419, is not
against it, though the reasoning is, and seems to unsettle the
question.
See, also, the opinions of the law officers of the government
at different periods, June 11th, 1845, and September 26th,
1849,'coinciding that the arrival meant here must have been
one followed by an entry and clearance. Their opinions, likewise, have without doubt been adopted by the government, and
our consuls instructed to conform to them, and this furnishes
an additional consideration for not disturbing what is in opera-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

385

Harrison v. Vose.

tion under them; and especially when a change would be
merely to extend a severe penalty to a case doubtful in construction and characterized by good intentions.
The utmost which can be said is, that the master might
have intended to enter his vessel at Kingston, if he found that
the cargo had been sold there, but ascertaining it was not, he
left at once in less than twenty-four hours, by the first fair
wind, and before entering or being required to enter. The
master, therefore, seems to have acted throughout in good faith,
and with no intent to break the law ip not depositing his papers at the first port; and it is so doubtful whether he has incurred a penalty, that we think a certificate must be given in
his favor. Plowden, 20.
It is gratifying, in respect to this conclusion, that, if it be different from the design of Congress in this act, another can at
once be passed, requiring expressly in every case, and at whatever delay and expense, that a deposit shall be mdde of papers
with consuls by masters, on touching any part of a port, and
for whatever purpose or cause, and for however short a period.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maine, and on the point or question on which the judges of
the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which was
certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of
Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this
court, that, on the testimony in this case, it was not the duty
of the defendant, who was master or commander of the ship
or vessel called the Openango, on his arrival at Kingston, in
the island of Jamaica, to deposit his register, sea-letter, and
Mediterranean passport with the United States Consul at said
port. Whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

VOL. IX.

