JANUARY TERM, 1850.

421

Doe v. Eslava et aL

JiOn

DOE, Ex DE I. or CATHARINE LOUISA BARBARIE, ANN BILLUP
BARDE, DANIEL R. BROWER AND ANN B. BRoWER, ils WIFE,
CURTIS LEWIS AND ISABELLA LEWIS, HIS WIFE, JOHN T. LACKEY
AND MARGARET LACKEY, HIS WIFE, HEIRS AND LEGAL RE'EESENTATIVES OF ROBERT FARMIER, DECEASED, V. MIGUEL D. ESLAVA,

AND OTHERS, TENANTS IN POSSESSION.
There were two conflicting claims to land in that part of Louisiana west of the Perdido River; one founded upon a French grant in 1757, with pQssession continuing
down to 1737; th other founded upon a Spanish grant in 1788, with possession
continuing down to 1819.
Both these claims were confirmed by Congress.
In an ejectment suit, where the titles were in conflict, the State court instructed the
jury, that the confirmations balanced each other, and they must look to other evidunces of title in order to settle the rights of the parties.
The judgment of the court being, ultimately, in favor of the party who &animed under the Spanish grant, this court will not, under the circumstances of the case,
disturb that judgment.
The fifth seetion of the act of Congress passed on the 8th of May, 1822, giving certain powers to the registers and receivers of the land office, did not confer upon
them the power of finally adjudicating titles to land.
THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Alabama, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
It was an ejectment brought, in April, 1838, in the Circuit
Court for Mobile County and State of Alabama, by the heirs of
Robert Farmer against Miguel D. Eslava, the Mayor and Aldermen of the city of Mobile, and Joseph Clemens. Eslava
afterwards obtained leave to sever in his plea, and thenceforward this suit was carried on against him alone.
The action was brought to recover the following lot of
ground in the city of Mobile, viz.: " Beginning at a post on the line of the claim of William
McVoy, at the distance of twenty-four feet north of the northeast angle of Government Street and Emanuel Street; running thence north sixty-nine degrees east (with the line of
McVoy), eighty-nine feet seven inches, to a stake, the southeast
angle of a brick cotton-shed, bearing north seventeen degrees
west, distant forty-two feet one inch; thence north seventeen
degrees forty minutes west, two hundred and twenty-four feet,
to the south boundary of the bakehouse lot; thence with said
south boundary, south seventy-five degrees fffteen minutes west,
eighty-nine feet six inches, to the east boundary of Emanuel
Street ; thence with said street, south seventeen degrees forty
minutes east, two hundred and thirty-four feet, to the place of
beginning; containing twenty thousand four hundred and ninety-five superficial feet, with"the appurtefiances.)'
Instead of giving a chronological narrative of'the events convoL. Ix.
36

-

422

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe v. Eslava et al.

nected with the titles of the plaintiff and defendant, it will
best place them before the reader to trace out each title separately.
In May, 1846, the cause came on for trial, when the parties
exhibited the following deeds and papers in support of their
respective claims.
The title of the plaintiff was as follows:1. A patent issued on the 19th of April, 1759, at New Orleans, by Louis de Kerline, Chevalier of the royal and military
Order of St. Louis, captain of a vdssel of his Majesty, and Governor of the Province of Louisiana, and John Baptiste Claude
Bob6 de Cloreaux, Counsellor of the King in his Council,
Commissary of the Marine, Ordinator. in the said Province, to
Mr. Grohdel. The patent was for a piece of land near the
place of the new quarters, at Mobile, called the direction fronting the fort, consisting of'about fourteen toises of front upon
the esplanade, of the depth which remains of the establishment
of the king's bakehouse (boulangerie du roi).
2. Mesne conveyances from Grondel to Robert Farmer.
3. That Farmer was a major in the British army, and lived
in Mobile; and that when the Spaniards took possession under
the treaty which followed upon the close of the war of the
American Revolution,'Farmer's house was burned and his family moved away to some other residence.
4. After the acquisition and reduction into possession of this
country by the United States, Congress passed an act, upon the
25th of April, 1812, appointing a commissioner to investigate
the claims to land within it, whose report was to be laid before
Congress. In January, 1814, the report of the commissioner,
Mr. Crawford, was laid before Congress. 3 Am. State Papers,
6, tit. "Public Lands." This claim appears in the report, but
the .abstracts show no evidence of inhabitation or cultivation,
and the recommendation was, that those claims only should
be confirmed in which this proof was made. 3"Am., State Papers, 32.
On the 3d of March, 1819, Congress passed an act confirming certain claims, and organizing a board of commissioners,
consisting of the register and receiver, to receive evidence of
"all grants, orders of survey, &c., derived from the French,
British, and Spanish governments"; and the commissioners
were empowered "to inquire into the justice and validity of
the claims," and in every case to ascertain the facts relative to
their inhabitation and cultivation,tand the nature of the survey,
if any, abstritcts of which evidence were to be reported to the
Secretary of the Treasury, to be by him laid before Congress.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

428

Doe v. Eslava et aL

In June, 1820; the claim was presented by Louis de -obiscey, who had married one of the daughters of Farmer, in the
following manner.
"To the Register and Receiver of Public Moneys, acting -as
Commissioners of Land Claims at Jackson Court-House,

Mississippi.
"Gentlemen, -You are hereby notified that the following
claims of the heirs of Robert Farmer are now revived, and additional evidence offered in support thereof, to wit: 'a lot in the
city of Mobile,.situate opposite to Fort Charlotte, and running
fourteen toises (eighty-four feet) front -on Government Street,
and running back to the public bakehouse (about three hundred feet), which said lot was granted by the French government, by.patent bearing date 19th April, 1757, to Mr. Grondel,
who, by deed bearing date 22d August, 1757, sold it to Bertrand Guichandene, who, by deed of sale bearing date 18th
March, 1759, Qold it to Count Pascher, by whom, by deed, lost
by time or accident, it was transferred to Robert Farmer, who,
according to the evidence hereto annexed, inhabited the -same
upwards of twenty yeafs, and which' is now in my possession
in right of the heirs of said Farmer. " A translation of the patent is recorded in book C, page 1842, in the books of the
former commissioner, but no conveyances ;under said patent.
Therefore, I respectfully request that the said papers herewith
filed may be recorded in the order in which they are now presented.
"Louis G. D

YO]SCEYY
W

At the same time, the depositions of Mrs. Bennett and John
Baptiste Trainer were filed, showing that Farmer lived on the
lot for twenty years; that, on the taking of the town by the
Spaniards, the house was burned, and the family moved away.
Upon this evidence, the commissioners made the following
report.
"Register of Evidence collected in Relation to Lots in the
Town of Mobile.
"No. 27. By whom claimed, Heirs of Robert Farmer.
Original claimant, Grondel. Nature of claim, and from what
authority derived, French patent. Date of claim, 19th April,
1757. Quantity front, in fret, ; 84 deep; area in feet,
. Where situated, Government Street. By whom issued,
French government. Cultivation and inhabitation: A house

424

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

built, in which R. Farmer lived for twenty years, and until the
Spaniards took possession of the country.
"Land Office, Jackson Court-House, July 11th, 180.
"W. BARTON, Reg.
Win. BARNETT, Rec'r.
JOHN ELLIOTT, Clerk.1)
"Attest:
On the 8th of May, 1822, Congress passed an act, entitled
"An act confirming claims to lots in the town of Mobile, and
to land in the former Province of West Florida, which claims
have been reported favorably on by the commissioners appointed by the United States." Under this act the following proceedings were had by the commissioners, William Crawford,
and W. Barton, and William Barnett, register and receiver.
"Transcript from the Register of Certificates granted for
Claims to Lots in the Town of Mobile, in the District of
Jackson Court-House, Mississippi, contained in Report No.
7 of the Register and Rece iver on the Town Lots, and confirmed by virtue of the A't of Congress passed 8th of May,
1822, entitled 'An act confirming Claims to Lots in the
Town of Mobile,' &c.
"Number of certificate, 15. Number of claim, 27. Number
of report, 7. Present claimants, Heirs of Robert Farmer. OrigNature of claim, French patent.
inal claimant, Grondel.
. Where
, 84 deep, area Quantity conferred, front situated, Government Street, Town of Mobile.
"Register's Department, Land Office, Jackson Court-House,
Mississippi, January 1st, 1823.
"W. BARTON, Agent.
"Register of Locations issued for confirmed Claims to Lots in
the City of Mobile.
"Date of warrant, 15th November, 1827. Number of warrant, 401. Number of certificate, 15. Number of claim, 27.
. Claimant, Heirs of
Number of report, 17. Quantity, .
Farmer. Where situated, In Mobile. By whom located, In conformity to the extract of
In what manner located, -.
title attached, say 14 toises front, running to the lot of the
bakehouse, formerly known to be the king's bakehouse."
5. The plaintiff's next evidence in the chain of title was a
patent or quitclaim from the United States, which was as fol1ow ,-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

425

Doe v. Eslava et al.
The United States of America, to all to whom these presents
shall come, greeting:
"Whereas there has been deposited in the General Land Office a certificate (No. 15) of the register and receiver of the
land office at St. Stephen's, with! a plat of survey of the lot of
land therein mentioned, under the provisions of the act of Congress approved on the 8th day of May, 1822, entitled 'An act
confirming claims to lots in the town of Mobile, and to land in
the former Province of West Florida, which claims have been
reported favorably on by the commissioners appointed by the
United States,' as the claim of the heirs of Robert Farmer, in
right of Philip Gonjon de Grondel, numbered twenty-seven, in
abstract numbered seven of the register and receiver, and as
being bounded and described as follows, to wit: Beginning at
a post on the line of the claim of William MeVoy, at the distance of twenty-four feet north of the northeast angle of Government Street and Emanuel Street; running thence north sixtynine degrees east (with the line of McVoy), eighty-nine feet
seven inches, to a stake, the southeast angle of a brick cottonshed, bearing north seventeen degrees west, distant forty-two
feet one inch; thence north seventeen degrees forty minutes
-west,two hundred and twenty-four feet, to the south boundary
of the bakehouse lot; thence with said south boundary, south
seventy-five degrees fifteen minutes west, eighty-nine feet six
inches, to the east boundary of Emanuel Street ; thence with
said street, south seventeen degrees forty minutes east, two hundred and thirty-four feet, to the place of beginning.; containing
twenty-thousand four hundred and ninety-five superficial feet,
English measure, and being a lot in the city of Mobile, in the
State of Alabama, in township four south, of range one west,
in the district of lands subject to sale at St. Stephen's, Alabama: Now, know ye, that the United States of America, in
consideration of the premises, and in conformity with the said
act of Congress, have remised, released, and for ever quitclaimed, and by these presents do remise, release, and for ever
quitclaim, unto the said heirs of Robert Farmer, and to their
heirs, the said land above described, subject to any just claim or
claims to all and every part thereof, of all and every person or
persons, bodies politic or corporate, derived from the United
States, or from either the British, French, or Spanish authorities: To have and to hold the same, together with all the
rights, privileges, immunities, and appurtenances of whatsoever
nature thereunto belonging, subject to any such just claim or
claims as aforesaid, unto them, the said heirs of Robert Farmer,
and to their heirs and assigns for ever, so that neither the
36*
C

426

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe v. Eslava et al.

United States, [n]or any other person claiming under them,
except as is provided in said act and the reservation aforesaid,
may or can set up any right or title thereto.
"In testimony whereof, I, Martin Van Buren, President of
the United States of America, have ciused these letters to be
made patent, and the seal of the General Laud Office to be
hereunto affixed.
"Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the 14th
day of November, in the year of our Lord 1837, and of the independence of the United States the sixty-second.
"MARTIN

VAN BUREN,

by A. VAN BUREN, Secretary.
"By the President:

JOSEPH S. WILSON,
Acting Recorder of Gen. Land Office, ad. in."

6. The last evidence in the chain of the plaintiff's title was
proof that the lessors of the plaintiff were the heirs of-R.
Farmer.
Defendant's Title.
The defendant then offered in evidence
viz. :-

the following,

1. " To his Excellency Stephen Meiro, Colonel of the Royal
Armies, Political and Military Governor of the City of New
Orleans and Province of Louisiana, &c.
"Elizabeth Fonnerette, an inhabitant within the jurisdiction
of Mobile, with due respect prays your Excellency, and says,
that there is in this town a lot of ground, containing ten toises
in breadth by twenty-six toises in length, situate on Governrent Street, opposite the house and lot of Anthony Narbonne,
formerly belonging to Mr. Farmer, which lot has not until the
resent time been claimed by the proprietor or by any agent in
is behalf. In consideration of all which, your petitioner humbly hopes, from the goodness of your Excellency, that you will
be pleased to grant her the lot above described, and to order
the necessary titles to be issued from the secretary's office of
this government; wherefore your petitioner entreats your Excellency may be pleased to grant the lot prayed for, and, in so
doing, your petitioner shall record many thanks. Mobile, .15th
February,. 1788.
(Signed,)
ELIZABETH FONNERETTD.
"I, Viginti Folch, captain of the regiment of Louisiana infantry, political and military commandant of the town of Mobile and its district, &c., do hereby certify that, from the in-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

427

Doe v. Eslava et al.

formatio~n which I have received from various inhabitants of
this place, it appears that the facts stated by the petitioner are
correct and true. Mobile, March 1st, 1788.
"The commandant of Mobile will put the petitioner in possession of the lot of ground for which she solicits a grant, at
the spot described in the preceding memorial, provided the
same is vacant, and without causing injury to a third person.
Let the proceedings of the survey be made out in connection
herewith by the surveyor of the Province, to be transmitted to
me, in order to provide the petitioner with the corresponding
title in form.
(Signed,)
STEPHEN MEIRO. [SEAL.]"
2. A deed from Elizabeth Fonnerette to Fontanella, in 1798.
3. A deed from Fontanella to Orsono, in 1801.
4. A deed from Orsono to Eslaya, in 1802.
The plaintiff objected to Nos. 1, 2, and 3, that they had
never been presented to the board of commissioners, and that
they therefore could not be read in evidence; which objection
was overruled, and the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff also objected to Nos. 1, 2, and 3, because they
were mere copies from the book of Spanish records, and the
originals not even accounted for.
To No. 4 the plaintiff objected, because the paper offered
was a mere certified copy from the land office, and did not purport to convey any title to the premises; which objection was
overruled, and the said papers, Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4, were. read,
and the plaintiff excepted. The conveyance signed by Orsono
was produced.
5. It has been already mentioned, that, on the 25th of April,
1812, Congress passed an act appointing a commissioner to investigate and report upon such claims. The next step in the
defendant's title was the following evidence of the presentation
of the defendant's title before the commissioner in 1814.
"To the Commissioner of Land Claims east of Pearl River.
"Sir, -Please
take notice, I claim a lot and house by virtue of a bill of sale to me by Joaquin de Orsono, captain of
the Louisiana regiment of infantry, civil and military commandant of Mobile, dated the 20th June, 180.2.
"KENNEDY & OSBORN,
Attorneys and Agents for Don Miguel Eslava.
"Louisiana, East of Pearl River, M11ay 24th, 1814.
"1Know all men by these presents, that I, Don Joaquin de

SUPREME COURT.

428

Doe v.Eslava et a!.

Orsono, captain of the regiment of infantry of Louisiana, commandant civil and military of this town of Mobile, declare'to
have sold to Don Miguel Eslava the house pertaining to me,
wherein I dwell, upon the lot of ground that I bought of Doii
Francis Fontanella, and built at my'o7wn expense; the which
I concede to him, free from all encumbrance, for the sum of
two thousand dollars, which I have received down, to my full
satisfaction; in virtue of which I yield the right of action and
ownership that to the said house I had and held, and cede and
transfer the whole to the purchaser, who his right shall have,
that as his own he may sell or transfer it at his pleasure, .without any person opposing his determination; and that it may
thus be evident at all times, and for the time being, I make.
him another sale of the same tract, and sign the present for his
security, in the afore town of Mobile, the 30th day of the
month of June, 1802.
By duplicate,
JOAqU1N DE ORSONO.
"Test:
THOMAS PRICE,
CAYETANO PEREZ."

The commissioner, Mr. Crawford, made the following report
upon this, claim.
"Report No. 11.
"Register of claims to land in the district east of Pearl River,
in Louisiana, founded on private conveyances which have
passed through the office of the commandant, but founded, as
the claimant supposes, on grants lost by time or accident. No.
79. By whom claimed, Miguel Eslava. Original claimant,
Joaquin de Orsono. Quantity claimed in feet unknown.
Where situated, Mobile. Cultivation and inhabitation, 1800
to 1814. Remarks: Most of those claims of 1Eslava were purchased at public auction.
"WILLIAM CRAWFORD, Commissioner.
"Remarks.
Though the original grants upon which the
preceding claims are founded have been lost, yet it is conceived
that the claims to such lots as were inhabited and cultiv i.ed
under the Spanish government, or such as were built upon by
permission of the-Spanish authorities, ought to be confirmed.
"WILLIAM CRAWFORD, Commisioner."

It has been previously stated, that on the 3d of March, 1819,
Congress passed an act organizing a board of commissioners,
consisting of the register and receiver, to receive evidence of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

499

Doe v. "Eslava et al.

grants, and to report to Congress. Under this act the following
proceedings took place.
6. A survey, under the following order:"Register of Locations issued for Confirmed Claims to Lots in
the City of Mobile.
Date of warrant, 10th November, 1827. Number of warrant, 413. Number of certificate, 74. Number of claini, 79.
. Claimant,
Number of report, 11. Quantity claimed, Miguel Eslava. Where located, Mobile. By whom located;
-- .
In what manner located, 7,200 square feet, including
the original buildings.
"Surveyor's Ofice,
Land District east of the Island of New Orleans.
"In conformity with a certificate, No. 4, warrant No. 235,
claim No. 79, report No. 11, from the. board of commissioners
at Jackson Court-House, I have surveyed for Don Miguel Eslava a lot of ground within the city of Mobile, in township No.
4, range No. 1, west of the basis meridian, bounded as follows :-Beginning at the northwest angle of Government and
St. Manuel Streets, and extending northward, on St. Manuel
Street, two hundred and twenty-six feet, and eastward, on
Government Street, one hundred and twelve feet. The copy
of the conveyance attached to the warrant calls for one hundred
and fourteen feet front on Government Street, but'it could, not
be found without interfering with Joyce's D iplantines lot, containing 25,312 superficial feet, of Parisian measure, and having"
such shape, form, and marks as are represented in the above
description.
"The 29th day of October, 1823.
" SILAs DiNsmohE,
PrincipalDeputy Surveyor."
This survey was objected to as evidence, as no Warrant or
order of survey was shown, nor any confirmation authorizing
the same; which objection was overruled, and the plaintiff excepted.
7. The defendant then offered the following patent certifi,
cate :
"Land Qfice, Jackson Court-House,
3d September, 1824.
"In pursuance of an act of Congress passed on the 8th day
of May, 1822, entitled ' An act confirming claims to lots in the
town of Mobile,' &c., we hereby certify, that the claim of

480

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

Miguel Eslava, original claimant Joaquin de Orsono, No. 79, in
the report of the commissioners, No. 11, ha. been confirmed
under the said act, add that, on the 29th day of October, 1823,
the said claim was regularly surveyed, containing 25,312 superficial feet, of Parisian m~asure, and designated as a lot of ground
within the city of Mobile, in township No. 4, range No. 1, west
of the basis meridian, bounded and described as per plat, herewith authenticated -y Silas Dinsmore, principal deputy surveyor for the said district.
",Now, therefore, be it known, that on the presentation of
this certificate to the commissioner of the General Land Office,
the said Miguel Eslava shall be entitled to receive a patent for
the above-described lot.
"W. HOWZE, Register.
G. B. DAKEROU, Receiver."
The defendant then proved that the signatures to the patent certificate and the certificate of survey were genuine,
and that the officers were at the date thereof such as they purport. This the plaintiff objected to, because not sufficiently
authenticated, and for the reasons stated in the objections to
the survey. The defendant then offered a report from the land
office favorable to his claim, marked No. 7. The claim is found
in American State Papers, Vol. III.
The defendant also read the act of Congress of 1822, confirming this claim, and also the act of 1819.
The defendant offered evidence going to prove that Fontanella was in possession of the premises, or a portion of them, in
1801 or 1802; that Orsono afterwards had possession, and built
a house thereon; and that, after the date of the bill of sale
to Eslava, he (Eslava) exercised acts of ownership over it in
making repairs, receiving rent, &c.
That Eslava, on his purchase, obtained the possession, and
held it till Vobiscey entered, in 1819 ; that he rented it out to
divers persons; that Vobiscey. entered while it Was rented by
Eslava to a tenant named Ward.
In reply to this, the plaintiff offered evidence to show that
one De Vobiscey, who had married one of the heirs of Farmer,
in -the year 1818 or 1819, took possession peaceably of the said
premises, claiming to enter in the assertion of said Farmer's
title; and that from that time to the present the said claim
has been before the courts of Alabama, as will be seen in the
reports of the cases in 2 Stewart, 115, and 3 Stewart & Porter,
and 7 Alabama Reports.
The defendant then, to rebut this possession, produced to

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

431

Doe v. Eslava et al.

the court certified copies of the pioceedings against De Vobiscey,
marked 8, to show their character, and that De Vobiscey was
turned out of possession.
S. The defendant then referred to the original Spanish document set forth under the fifth head of his defence. It was the
document signed by Orsono; and in the connection was the proof
that Fontanella had been in possession, and had inclosed the
lot; that he had sold it to Orsono, who built a house upon the
lot; that Eslava, the father of defendant, had been in the receipt of rent, during the Spanish times, from about the time the
deed bears date; that he had claimed, and the property had
been esteemed as his; that the government of the United States
had paid rent to him, for the use made of it by General Wilkinson after the change of flag ; that he rented it to other persons, and the property was in his possession until he was interrupted by De Vobiscey in 1819; that in the latter part of 1819
De Vobiscey entered, and Eslava brought a writ of forcible entry, and recovered possession and retained it till 1821, when the
judgment was revoked and a writ of restitution awarded; that
afterwards another writ of forcible entry was brought by Eslava
against De Vobiscey, and in 1822 a recovery was had and possession recovered; that this possession was retained till the
year 1826, when this judgment was revoked, and a writ of restitution awarded; and Hallett, claiming to hold De Vobiscey's
title, entered, and the proceedings in ail action to try titles on
the same day were commenced, and a recovery had, with damages; and a writ of restitution was executed under the judgment of the Supreme Court, referred to in the reports of thatcase.
The documents five and six were offered together, and thegenuineness of the signatures was proved, and the fact that
the officers held the appointments specified at the time they
bear date.
The report of this claim, and the confirmation of the government, was also read to the jury. The evidence shows thatthe
heirs of Robert Farmer left this country ; and that, during the
Spanish times, and until the return of De Vobiscey, none were
known or heard of in the Province of West Florida as claimants
of this lot.
It was in evidence that Orsono, at the time of the deed to
him, and from him to Eslava, was the Spanish commandant at
Mobile.
Before the jury retired from thQ bar to consider of their verdict, the court charged them as follows: - That, in considering
this case, they were not to regard the title from the United

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe v. Eslava et al.

States to either party, as both were confirmed equally, and the
confirmations balanced each other, and, to decide the controversy, the jury must look to the other evidences of title. The
court further instructed the jury, that, if they believed the defendant, Eslava, and those under whom he claimed, had been
in possession more than twenty years before the suit was
brought under claim of title, it would be sufficient for his defence ; and that the conveyances produced would be sufficient
to connect the different possessions together. The court further instructed the jury, that, the conveyance to Mrs. Fonnerette
being shown, if no adverse or other possession appeared, and no
reason to the contrary was shown in evidence, and'the possession was found in her vendee, they would be authorized to
presume, if they thought proper, that she was in possession
under the concession.
The court further charged, that, if they believed that the
plaintiff had been out of possession since the.death of Farmer,
and until the year 1819, though De Vobiscey had then entered,
yet, if he was dispossessed by Eslava by recovering at law
with damages, having been out of possession such length of
time, his entry was that of a trespasser, and his possession
would not prevent the statute of limitations from continuing
to run on,account of Eslava, he having been restored by competent tribunals.
Before the jury retired to consult on their verdict, the counsel for the 'plaintiff requested the court to charge the jury as
follows: -

That in this State the jury would not be authorized to presume a grant in favor of a direct adverse possession short of
thirty
Thatyears.
the title of defendant, before confirmation, was
a mere
equity and this is not of that character, of color of title, which
would/support an adverse possession.
That, in order to sustain the defence under the statute of
limitations, there must be twenty years' actual, uninterrupted,
adverse possession, and this possession must be clearly defined;
which the court charged, but added, that the jury might infer
the possession, if they pleased, from the transmission of title
from Fonnerette to Fontanella, and from Fontanella to Orsono,
and to this defendant.
That the proper concession to Mrs. Fonnerette, her deed to
Fontanella, and his deed to Orsono, cannot be received by the
jury as evidence of title, so as to connect the defendant's title
under his confirmation with them, nor can they look to them
as evidence of sales, nor as proof of the consideration, nor as
proof of the boundaries claimed.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

438

Doe v. Eslava et al.

That if the jury find that De Vobiscey entered upon the
premises in 1818 or 1819, with intent to claim, and did claim,
in right of his wife, as one of the heirs of Farmer, and held
possession under said title during those portions of time he was
successful in litigation, -this interrupted the possession; and
in order to sustain a title under the statute there must be proof
of a clear adverse possession of twenty years prior to the time
of the interruption; which the court refused, and the court
charged that De Vobiscey was a trespasser.
That neither under the claim of Mrs. Fonnerette, nor under
the act of Congress, can the defendant claim more than sixty
feet front, and that the survey produced by the defendant cannot control this.
That if defendant has put in a plea for eighty-four feet, and
shows title for but sixty feet, without designating the precise
location of the sixty, the plaintiff must recover. That the
paper title produced by the plaintiff is better than the paper
title of the defendant.
That the act of 1822, confirming defendant's title, relates
.only to the title as presented to the commissioners, to wit, the
deed from Orsono in 1802, while the same act confirms the
title of plaintiff, which relates back to the patent of 1757.
That the legal construction of the bill of sale from Orsono to
Eslava gives to Eslava no right to the land in controversy.
That if the defendant claims under the title of Mrs. Fonnerette, he cannot acquire by the statute of limitations more
than the title calls for, which is sixty feet front.
To all of which charges and refusals to charge by the court,
the plaintiff by his counsel excepts, and prays that his bill of
exceptions may be signed and sealed by the court, which is
done accordingly in term time.
The jury, under these instructions, found a verdict for the
defendant, and the case was carried to the Supreme Court of
Alabama. Before it came on for trial, the record was amended
as follows.
"In Ejectment.
"JOHN DoE, ex dem. of FARMER'S HEIRs, V. M. D. ESLAVA.

"I, Augustus Brooks, clerk of the Circuit Court for the
county and State aforesaid, do hereby certify, that it is stated
in the original bill of exceptions in this case, that every charge
requested by the plaintiff's counsel of the court therein set
forth was refused, which statement ought to appear in the
transcript of the record, as it is a part of the record, but was
VOL. IX.
37

434

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

omitted through mistake to be ihserted in the transcript made
out in the case and sent to the Supreme Court.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and
affixed the seal of said court, this 30th May, in the year 1846.
[SEA.]
"A. BROOKS, Clerk.
"This record is amended by consent in this: - That it is
agreed there is an omission in the bill of eiceptions to state that
the charges asked for (and appearing in this record) by the
plaintiff below were refused by the court, and excepted to by
the plaintiff.
"Tuscaloosa, 4th June, 1846.
"1GEORGE N. STEWART,

Attorney for Def't in Error."
In April, 1847, the cause came on for argument, when the
Supreme Court of Alabama affirmed the judgment of the court
below. The plaintiff sued out a writ of error, and brought the
case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips and Mr. Coze, for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Campbell, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Phillips,for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points.
The Supreme Court of Alabama has declared that the plaintiff's chain of title "gives no legal right to the premises, and
that the lessor is not entitled to recover, although no opposing evidence had been offered by defendant." 11 Ala. Rep.
1049.
This extraordinary conclusion is predicated upon the position
that the title of Farmer was forfeited by the conquest, as well
as by the'stipulation of the fifth section of the treaty between
Great Britain and Spain.
That the estate of- individuals is not the subject of forfeiture
by act of conquest, is a well-established principle in the law of
nations, and one repeatedly recognized by this court. Vattel's Law of Nations, 388; Wheaton's Law of Nations, 63; 8
Wheat. 589; 7 Pet. 86; 10 ib. 326; 12 ib. 412.
Nor does the fifth section of the treaty work this consequence.
If, by the law of nations, Farmer's possession would have been
secure, would the British government have introduced a treaty
stipulation narrowing the right of their own subjects ?
"Her Catholic Majesty agrees that the British inhabitants or
subjects may retire in full security and liberty when they shall
think proper, and may sell their estates, and remove all their
effects, as well as their persons, withotit being restrained in

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

435

Doe v. Eslava et al.

their emigration, under any preteeice whatever, except on account of debts or criminal prosecutions; the term limited for
this emigration being fixed to the space of eighteen months,"
&c. But if from the value of their possessions they should not
be able to dispose of them, a longer time to be granted, &c.
Land Laws, 977.
The just construction of this section would seem to be, to
stipulate for emigration and removal of property, and that it is
introduced out of abundant caution. But if the party did not
choose to emigrate, was there to be a forfeiture of his property
upon the expiration of the eighteen months ? Or suppose he
emigrated within that period, but did not sell, did the lapse of
time deprive him of the right to do so ? The treaty nowhere
expressly declares a forfeiture, and to imply it in opposition to
the principles of the laws of nations could only be justified by
imperious necessity.
Whatever may be the power of the sovereign to regulate the
ownership of real estate, and to confine it to citizens alone, it
would seem that some special action of the Spanish government was necessary, and that neither the conquest nor the
treaty, proprio vigore, worked a forfeiture of this estate.
But supposing they did, was it not competent for Spain to
have relinquished this forfeiture, and may not this government,
the successor of Spain, do the same thing? The admission
of the premises of the decision does not at all justify -its conclusion, "that the lessor had no right to recover, although no
opposing evidence had been offered by defendant."
But it may be said that the act of Congress anl the patent
which affirm* the plaintiff's title expressly reserve, the rightful
claims of all other persons, and that the defendant's title is
within that reservation, and consequently stands unaffected by
them.
In 1788, Elizabeth Fonnerette applied to the Spanish Commandant Meiro for the lot belonging to Farmer, "which has
not until the present time been claimed by the proprietor or by
any agent in his behalf" ; upon which an order issued to put
the petitioner into possession provided the lot was "vacant,
and it caused no injury to any one," and with the firther direction, that "a survey should be made by the surveybr of the'
Province, to be transmitted to me in order to provide the petitioner with the corresponding title in form."
This was the whole transaction under the Spanish government. There is no evidence to show that the party was ever
put into possession by the- officer to whom the- order was directed, nor that she had ever pbtained the possession in any

436

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

other manner; -no proof, therefore, that the inquiry was ever
made that the lot was "vacant," and that the concession would
not operate an "injury" to some other person, nor was there
ever any "survey" upon which the titles were to be predicated.
It may be remarked, also, that, although this application was
made but a few years after the treaty, the lot of Farmer is not
spoken of as forfeited, but as unclaimed.. The concession to
Mrs. Fonnerette gave her 'no legal title. This is shown, 1st. By the terms of the concession itself.
20. By the eighteenth section of the Regulations of Morales,
which declares, "that no one of those who have obtained the
first decree by which the surveyor is ordered to measure it, and
by virtue of which they have been put in possession, can be
regarded as owners of the land until their real titles are delivered, completed with all the formalities before recited." Land
Laws, 984.
3d. By the repeated adjudications of this court, commencing
with the case of De ]a Croix v. Chamberlain, in 12 Wheaton,
that such claims did not sever the land from the public domain,
and that upon the change of government a political obligation
alone existed, which ihe court could not enforce.
The claim of Eslavl, however, was not presented to the
board as founded upon this concession, but upbon a bill of sale
from Orsono in 1802; and this was the only paper filed in the
land office. The report of the commissioners shows Orsono to
be the original claimant, Eslava the present claimant, and states
the qfiantity claimed as unknown.
It is contended by defendant, that the act of 1822 confirmed
this claim, and upon the trial a survey was introduced, made
by a deputy surveyor of the United States; to show its extent.
This evidence was objected to, because by the acts of Congress
the register and receiver were to direct the manner in which
the locations 'were to be made, and the survey was made without their authority. The survey contained 25,312 superficiql
feet, while the act of Congress under which the claim is set up
expressly provides that, where the quantity claimed is not ascertained, it shall be for 7,200 square feet, or 60 by 120. This
survey, then, was not only made ivithout due warrant, but in
face of the act, and has never been recognized by this government. The survey should, therefore, have been rejected by
the court.
The defendant also offered in evidence the concession and
certain mesne conveyances to Orsono. The original petition
upon which the concession is founded is for a lot ten toises
(60 feet) in front; but the conveyances all differ as to the dimensions.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

437

Doe v. Eslava et al.

The question now is, What standing has this claim acquired
from the action of this government?
As it has been shown that the defendant had only an equity
upon the political department, he must be content to take his
title with the conditions and under the restrictions which that
department has imposed.
The plaintiff having shown a perfect title from the government, the defendant was not at liberty to use in evidence
against that title the concession, or the mesne conveyances to
Orsono, as they had never been presented to the board of commissioners.
The act declares they shall never be "considered or admitted as evidence in any .court of the United States against any
grant which may hereafter be derived from the United States."
Land Laws, 607; Henderson "v.Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 543;
De ]a Croix v. Chamberlain, 12 Wheat. 599 ; Strother v; Lucas,
12 Peters, 448; Barry v. Gamble, 3 How. 32..
These words are too emphatic and too general to justify the
distinction which was taken; for, whether the deeds were introduced.as constituting of themselves title, or for the purpose
of uniting them to some other matter to this end, they equally
fall within the words of the statute and the mischief it was intended to guard against.
But supposing all these documents properly before the court,
it is still insisted the defendant is without a legal title.
The act of 1822 does not purport a conveyance of title.
While its first section in reference to conuplete grapts recognizes
them as valid, its other sections, which affect the defendant's
claim, look to future action, -CC they shall be confirmed." The
final title is reserved to the government until the patent issues.
The scope of its provisions, providing for locations by its own
tribunals, which are also empowered to decide in cases of conflict, is utterly inconsistent with the idea that the act itself severed the connection of the government.
While, therefore, it is not denied that a complete title to
lands may be vested by act of Congress, it is insisted that, under the act of 1822, the title of the government is not divested
until the issuing of the patent. Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet.
436; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; Boatner v.Ventriss, 4
Cond. L. R. 653.
Stating the case, therefore, most favorably for defendant,
it shows that Farmer and Eslava both held claims to the lot in
controversy derived from former governments ; but these claims
gave no title. They have both urged their suits before the
37 *

438

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et aL

new forum, and Farmer's title has been perfected, while Eslava's remains incomplete.
From 1822 to 1837, when the patent issued which divested
the government of its title, there was a special tribunal organized by the act of Congress for the adjudication of this conflict.
The defendant has appealed. to that tribunal and been defeated,
or he has abstained for fifteen years from prosecuting his suit
where by law he was directed to do it. The record does not
authorize us to say upon which horn he is suspended, but his
dilemma is the same in either'event.
That this court has jurisdiction of this cause under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, reference is made to Mlatthews v. Zane, 4 Cranch, 382; Ross v. Barland, 1 Pet. 662;
Pollard's Heirs v. Kibbe, 14 Pet. 354.
Mr. Campbell, for the defendant in error, contended,
1. That these two claims fell within different sections of
the confirmatory act of 1822; that of Farmer being provided
for in the fourth section, which merely conferred donations,
whilst that of Eslava was comprehended within the third section, which recognized preexisting rights; and that claims
founded upon donations must give way to rights already established.
2. (After showing that the Supreme Court of Alabama considered that both parties were protected by the act of Congress,
and that, in order to decide between them, the antecedent con-.
ditions of the title had necessarily to be considered, Mr. Campbell proceeded,) In this posture of the case, the Supreme Court
were led to the inquiries, first, whether the title of the lessors
of the plaintiff was not forfeited before the action of Congress
upon it; and secondly, whether the possession of the defendant
had not perfected his iitle under the Spanish laws of prescription and the Alabama act of limitation.
We contend that the settlement of the contest between these
parties is within the competency of the local tribunals, and that
a writ of error does not lie to the Supreme Court of the United
States upon their judgments. A solutiont of this question must
be found in the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, and
the interpretation given to it by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
The title of the lessors of the plaintiff rests upon the authority of no clause in the Constitution, nor is it protected by any
treaty. The title was forfeited by the laws of Spain, when it
had unquestioned sovereignty over the country, and was not
restored by the act of cession of Spain to the French govern-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

439

Doe v. Eslava et al.

ment, nor by any act of the French government. The title of
the defendant was valid and operative at the date of the cession to the United States, and is within its protection.
The title of the plaintiff is not held under a statute of the
United States. The United States, in the act of 8th May, 1822,
disavow in favor of the defendant all title to the lot, and if the
plaintiff is to be held as comprehended within the third section
of the same act, this disavowal operates in favor of the plaintiff.
The question, then, is controlled by the decision of this court in
9 Peters, 224. The court there says, - "The controversy in the
State court was between two titles; the one originating under
the French, the other under the Spanish government. It is
true, the successful party had obtained a patent from the United
States acknowledging the validity of his previous incomplete
title under the king of Spain. But this patent did not profess
to destroy any previous existing title, nor could it so operate,
nor was it understood so to operate by the State court." The
court proceeds to show, that the confirmation of the plaintiff's claim could not operate upon a preexisting title; that
the solution of the controversy between the parties depended
upon the opinion that the State court held as to the rights inder the titles deri~ed from the crowns of France and Spain
respectively; and that the Supreme Court was not entitled to
review the opinions of the State court on such a title.
The parallelism between the two cases is perfect. The controversy in the present case is between titles having complete
evidences of authenticity. The land in dispute had been severed from the national domain for more than half a century be.
fore the occupancy of Mobile under the title produced by the
lessors of the plaintiff. The measures of a public character by
which it had reverted, and the acts under which it had subsequently become private property, Were all antecedent to the
American acquisition.
The United States had interfered between the parties only
so far as to disclaim all estate in the property, and to furnish
the llighest evidence of that in an act of Congress. The settlement of the controversies under the preexisting claim could
be of no interest to the United States, nor can the mode of settlement of the question call for the interposition of the national
tribunals.
The state court gave to the act of Congress of 1822 all the
effect that could be derived from it in favor of the lessors of the
plaintiff. It did not pretend that the United States could not
waive the forfeiture in so far as it affected its own interests, but
that it had not attempted to impair any other title.

440

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

The decision was, that the disavowal or relinquishment of
the United States, in 1822, did not destroy the rights that had
vested after the forfeiture of the British grant, and before the
passage of the subsequent act of the United Slates in 1822.
This opinion receives full confirmation from the plain declaration in the act of 1822. Congress expressly declares that it is
not to be construed so as to affect any other title, but simply to
amount to a relinquishment of the title of the United States.
The Supreme Court has repeatedly held, that a confirmation in
such terms had no relation so as to affect the vested rights of
other persons. Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Howard, 459; Barry
v. Gamble, 3 Howard, 32.
The decision of the State court upon the effect of the act of
limitations is clearly not revisable by the Supreme Court of the
United States. The State court held that the laws of prescription ran in favor of the defendants, from the time they entered
into possession, claiming title. The Supreme Court has acknowledged in several instances the. effect of the statutes of
limitation upon French titles, and that those -acts are not obstructed by the statutes of the United States proposing inquiries into the character and validity of titles. That court held
that a party, whose claim had not been forfeited by neglect to
present it, was entitled to the benefit of the possession held
under the Spanish. laws of prescription before the cession, and
to the benefit of the local laws of prescription. Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 456, 461; Judge Catron's Opinion, 468, 469, 470.
Had -the United States set up a claim to this land as its own,
and it had been held under that title, we concede that no local
act of limitations could interfere with its supreme power of control. This has been fully recognized by the Supreme Court.
4 Howard, 169.
The United States made no claim. The claim of the defendant" was recognized, because he had adduced proof of title.
The United States withdrew all claim to the land, and simply
reserved a power to survey it to ascertain its location. This
staterpent of the case shows that the opinions of the State
court upon the statute of limitations do not operate to deny a
title held under the United States.
The remaining question upon the bill of exceptions, relating
to the construction of the act of Congress, arises upon the admissibility of the Spanish title papers of the defendant.
The defendant, at the time (1814) the commissioner appointed under the act of 1812 (1 Clarke's Land Laws, 606) called
for evidences of claim, had in his possession only the deed to
himself from Orsono. This deed was exhibited, and a fourteen

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

441

Doe v. Eslava et al.

years' occupancy under it was established. The original grant,
and the intermediate conveyances, were not produced. The
c6nfirmation of the United States was procured upon this statement of the title of the defendant.
It is a public fact, that, at the time the Spaniards left the
country, many of the title papers were carried away. The
archives were left in great confusion. In the State of Alabama
no order was made respecting the Spanish records until 1821.
The act of the General Assembly of that year indicates the disorder which prevailed. Toulmin's Digest, 699.
In the translation of the records, those papers which Eslava
had supposed to be lost were found. They show a connected
title to Orsono, from whom Eslava claims. The question then
arises, Has the act of Congress prohibited the use of these papers in the maintenance of his right? The object of the act
was to compel- the production of title-papers to the commissioner for the examination of claims. The failure to produce
such muniments of title was visited by a prohibition against
their introduction subsequently as.evidence in the courts of the
United States.This section could not have been designed to apply to the
case of a claimant whose claim was substantiated to the government, independently of a paper title, and whose claim had been
afterwards' recognized by the government. The object of
the statute was to protect bon&fide purchasers, or claimants
under the government, who had no notice of the dormant Spanish titles. When the Spanish claimant had adduced his claim,
supported it by'competent evidence, and it had been confirmed,
there was no motive for applying a penalty to him, and his case
is clearly not within the purview of the statute.
This view of the statute, reasonable as it appears, was not
adopted by the State court. The court allowed the Spanish
documents of title as evidence of the claim of the defendant,
and those under whom he derived title, and of the date of the
claim. The admissibility of the evidence was confined in its
operation to its effect in establishing a prescription under the
statutes of limitation.
The same question arises here which has been discussed in
another branch of this cause. Has the Supreme Court jurisdiction over the questions of evidence decided in this case ?
The act in question prescribes a rule of evidence for the courts
of the United States.
Granting the act of Congress to be operative as enacting a
barrier against the introduction of any title paper as evidence
which has not been registered according to the act, does it ap-

442

SUPPEME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

ply to a State court? Can Congress undertake to decide what
evidence shall be admitted to support a plea of the statute of
limitations in a State court ? Can Congress undertake to determine what deeds shall be evidence of title in controversies
similar to that now offered to the court? Congress has abandoned all claim to the land, and has conceded that both of the
claimants have a superior right to theirs. Is it competent for
Congress to dictate the form of evidence by which the title of
these parties shall be established in the State courts ? The
language of the act requires the sanction of no such pretension on the part of the government.
We contend that, when Congress established the title of the
defendant, as founded on a grant lost by time or accident, it
could never afterwards have designed to contest, or to furnish
its citizens with the means of contesting, the existence of
their tide. The bjects set forth in the adjudications of the
Supreme Court, as the landmarks of the national policy, forbid
such a conclusion. Such a course would have produced confusion, embarrassment, and litigation, when the policy of the
government was to promote peace, order, and security.
Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, in conclusion, made the
folowing additional points.
1. That the patent from the United States to the plaintiff
must prevail against defendant, who exhibits none.
2. That the report of the commissioners, January 1, 1823,
being prior to the patent certificate of defendant, September 3,
1824, confers'a prior title of confirmation by the United States.
3. That under said act of May 8, 1822, and other acts of
Congress, the lines and boundaries established by the register
and receiver, and embodied in the patent, are conclusive as to
title as well as to boundary.
4. That, according to defendant's showing, the register and
receiver never did authoritatively fix'the lines of his lot, and
the conveyance annexed to the warrant, and to which the surveyor refers in his plat of survey, had calls which could not be
complied with without coming into conflict with other claims.
5. The petitiotd, the foundation of defendant's title, calls for
a lot 10 toises (60 feet) in breadth, 26 toises (156 feet) in leiigth.
The deed, purporting to be from Elizabeth Fonnerette, appears
to be signed by Isabella Fonnerette, and this calls for 60 feet
front, 126 feet deep. Francisco Fontanella, not Francis, the
previous grantee, conveys to Orsono 114 feet in front and 126
feet in depth; and Orsono, in his conveyance to Eslava,
without indicating boundaries, sells the lot which he had purchased from Don Francis Fontanella.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

448

Doe v. Eslava et al.

6. Elizabeth or Isabella Fonnerette's deed calls for John
Joyce's lot as the northeastern boundary; and Dinsmore, the
surveyor, in his return, says the front of 114 feet could not be
found without interfering with Joyce's lot.
7. The original petition of Elizabeth Fonnerette recognizes
the claim of Farmer as a prior one.
8. The return of the surveyor gives the lines as surveyed
226 feet by 112, adding one hundred feet to the call of Fontanella's deed.
9. The superficial contents, according to the petition, 10
toises (60 feet) by 26 (156), would be 9,360 square feet ; according to Fonnerette's deed to Pontanella, 6q feet by 126, 7,560
square feet; by Fontanella's deed to De Orsono, 114 by 126,
14,364 square feet; by Dinsmore's survey, 226 by 112, 25,312;
by the register of location, 7,200 square feet. These various
documents of title are thus incongruous and inconsistent.
10. The deed from De Orsono to Eslava does not purport to
convey the entire property which he had purchased from Fontanella, but uses this language as describing the property conthe house pertaining to me, wherein I dwell, upon
veyed: the lot of ground that I bought of Don Francis Fontanella, &c.,
I yield the right of action and ownership in the house I had
and held."
11. It will be observed that the register says that Eslava's
claim is allowed to the extent of. 7,200-feet. By the fourth
section of the act of May 8, 1822 (Land Laws, 349), it is provided, "that in all such claims where the quantity claimed is
not ascertained, no one claim shall be confirmed for a quantity
exceeding 7,200 square feet. It is contended that this is an
adjudication by the register and receiver, that this was such a
claim as was thus restricted as to quantity.
12. That therefore the court erred in refusing, as it appears
was done, all the prayers for instructions on the part of plaintiff.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opiiion of the court.
This was a writ of error on a judgment rendered in the Supreme Court of Alabama.
Our jurisdiction to revise such a judgment is very strictly
limited to cases where some right or title was set up by a party
under the general government, -its constitution, treaties, or
laws, -and was overruled. It is this Federal character of the
claim decided against which furnishes some justification for a
revision of a State judgment in a Federal court; and unless it
be clearly of that character, the foundation as well as the policy
for our interference entirely fails.

444

STJPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et aL

So we are confined in our inquiries in a writ of error like
this, under the twenty-fifth section, to what appears on the record in some way or other, not only to have been set up under
the United States, but decided against by the court. Montgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129; Crowell v. Randell, 10
Peters, 392; McKinney v. Carroll, 12 Peters, 66; Pollard's
Heirs v. Kibbe, 14 Peters, 353, 360; Coons v. Gallaher, 15
Peters, 18; 16 Peters, 281; 7 Howard, 743. It must, too, be
overruled improperly; otherwise there is no grievance to be redressed.
As the plaintiff asserts, that such a right or title has in this
case been overruled, and that improperly, the burden to show
it devolves on him (Garnett et al. v. Jenkins et al., 8 Peters,
86) ; and as the State triburials are presumed to do their duty,
we should not disturb their decisions, even on matters connected with the general government, unless very manifestly improper or erroneous. Cbrroll v. Peake, 1 Peters, 23; 13 Peters,
447; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 727; 12 Peters,
435, 436, From the record in this case, it appears that both
parties claimed the land in controversy, by titles confirmed by
the United States, as well as by long possession at different
periods.
The possession by those under whom the plaintiff claims
had continued from 1757 to 1787; while that of the defendant
and his grantors had remained from the last date to the present time, with no interruption except by some legal proceedings betwceen 1819 and 1826, which in the end terminated
favorably to the defendant, and left him in the actual occupation of the premises.
The British power, under which Farmer was an officer,
ceased a- short time before Farmer's heirs left the country, in
1787, and the Spanish power ceased just before their return, in
1819, and for this or some other cause there seems to have
been an entire abandonment of the country and of this lot by
r'prmerls heirs during that period of over thirty years_- and a
new license by the Spanish government was, therefore, soon
given to those under whom Eslava claims, to enter upon i+ as a
vacant lot; and an exclusive occupation and building on it, as
if their own, followed by them and Eslava during the bame
period of thirty years, as well as most of the time since.
The principles of law applicable to these possessions, as existing in Alabama, and as to land held under ancient French
and Spanish permits and grants, we do not propose to consider;
nor to revise the correctness of the rulings of the State courts
concerning them, because they are matters clearly within their

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

445

Doe v. Eslava et al.

sole jkirisdiction. But with the other branch of the case, so far
as title was attempted to be proved by the plaintiff from or
through the United States, and was decided against, the course
should be otherwise, and our jurisdiction must be good to ascertain whether the decision made was a correct one.
Under this consideration, it is doubtful in the outset whether
the claim of the plaintiff ought not, on the evidence now produced, to be regarded as a perfect or complete title, derived from
the French patent or grant of 1757, to Grondel, and not to be
regarded as a title derived from the United States, and to be revised here if overruled in the State courts. Such a title is not
to be affected or regulated by the political, authorities to whom
a country is afterwards ceded, any nore or otherwise than any
private rights and property of the inhabitants of such a country.
United States v.Arredondo, 6 Peters, 691; United States v.
Percheman, 7 Peters, 51, 97; Mitchel et al. v. United States,
1 Peters, 734, 744: 12 Peters, 437, 438; 14 Peters, 349, 350.
And when a party, holding such complete title, is encroached
upon, he should find protection in the judicial tribunals, as
he can get nothing by a resor4-to confirmations, or releases,
or patents by the political power which acquired the sovereignty over the territory, but not the property itself, "belonging to
its inhabitants." Chief Justice Marshall says, in 7 Peters, 87,
"The king cedes that only which belonged to him. Lands he
had previously granted were not his to cede." And the complete title to them before obtained is strengthened by no confirmation' from the United States, who have acquired no interest in them. Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 519; 6 Peters, 724.
It is questionable, then, wiether the confirmation and qualified patent sought and obtained in this' instance from the
United States conferred any title, or are to be deemed the true
source of the title of the plaintiffs. In this view, it would be
a title or right derived from France, and to overrule it is to
overrule what is derived from France, and not the United
States.
The language of the acts of Congress on this subject (4 Stat,,
at Large, 700 and 708) seems decisive on this point; as by it
the complete grants or titles are "merely recognized as valid,"
while the incomplete ones of a certain character are "confirmed." In the former, the title has already passed to the possessor before the cession, and no confirmation is needed nor
rights required from the United States, they having nothing to
grant, whether by a statute, or, as here, by a mere quitclaim
patent.
The exceptions or def6ets in the chain of this title to Farmer
voL. Ix.
38

.446

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

seem by the present proof to. have been all overcome by entry,
building, and legal presumptiops; though when before the local officers, both parties appear to have been very unsuccessful
in collecting many of the facts. and papers since obtained.
But if, as reported by the commissioners, this is to be tre4ted
as an incomplete and confirmed claim, the State court do not
appear to have overruled the title set up by the plaintiff, so far
as derived from the United States. -They instructed the jury,
as to "ihe title from the United States to either party," that
"both were confirmed equally, and the confirmations balanced
each other; and, to decide the controversy, the jury must look
to the other evidences of title." They accordingly did so look;
and as the defendant's grantors, after ,Farmer's death, abd after
his family left, entered under a license from the public authorities, given on the ground that the lot had been abandoned and
was vacant; and as they and Eslava had occupied it since till
1819 undisturbed, and had been quieted in it again in 1826,
and continued there till' this time, the jury appears to have
found they were not to be disturbed now by any possession or
title of Farmer and his heirs before 1787.
Beside this general instrtiction concerning the confirmations
of each title being of equal validity, the court refused to instruct the jury; though requested by the plaintiff, "that the
pater title produced by" him "was better than the paper title
of.the defendant."
This is likewise excepted to.
But neither of these instructions, whether the general or
special one, seems to have overruled any title derived from the
United States; which was merely a confirmation. On the contrary, they consider it as sustained, but the defendant's title
thus gotten sustained also', as well as the plaintiffs. It is true,
they do not regard the former as better than the latter, and in
this view we see no manifest error.
The title of the plaintiff, so far as connected with the United
States, consisted of a- confirmation of. the French grant, and a
quitclaim patent. The title of the defendant thus connected
consisted of a confirmation of a'supposed Spanish concession,
and a certiBeate of this fact, entitling him to a patent, if he
wished. Both were confirmed at the same time by Congress.
The former, then, is n6 better as to title than the I ter. A
patent like the subsequent one in this case, merely quitw.Laiming
or rMeasing any right of th6 United States, gives no title to
the patentee superior to what a confirmation had given. Thus,
in Grignon v. Astor, 2"Howard, 344, the court remarks, - "It
has been contended-by the plaintiffs' counsel, that the sale in
the present case -is-not 'valid, because Peter Grignon had not

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

447

Doe ". Eslava et &L

such an estate in the premises as could be sold under the order
of the County Court, it being only an equitable one before the
patent issued in 1829; but the title became a legal one by its
confirmation by the act of Congress of February, 1823, which
was equivalent to a patent. It was a higher evidence of title,
as it was the direct grant of the fee which had been in the
United States by the government itself, whereas the patent was
only the act of its ministerial officers." See also Les Bois V.
Bramell, 4 Howard, 463; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 411;
8 Cranch, 244-249; and 1 Howard, 319, 324. After such a
confirmation, no patent is necessary to confer a. perfect legal
title. Sims v. Irvine, 3 Dallas, 456, 457. The case of
Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters,-436, relied on against this conclusion, does not militate against it, but merely holds that, a
patent of the fee having once issued on a certificate of purchase,
it is not permissible to go back of it and to issue another on
the same certificate. See also Boardman et al. v. Read et al.,
6 Peters, 342.
But it is well settled, that a prior claim, independent of any
patent, may for some purposes be considered, and be, valid, and
for other purposes may be considered as confirmed by the patent.
Carroll v. Safford, 3 Howard, 461; 4 Howard, 462; Brush v.
Ware et al., 15 Peters, 106, 107; 7 Wheat. 149. A certificate
of confirmation, such as Eslava had, is very different from a certificate of purchase, as the former shows that the legal title has
already passed, while the latter is merely -evidence that it
ought to-be passed. A patent is necessary to complete the legal title in the last case, but not in the first ; though an equitable title for many purposes exists, even under a certificate of
phrchase, without a patent. 3 Howard, 400; 15 Peters, 93";
5 Cranch, 93; 13 Peters, 498. Again, as both of the titles
here relate chiefly to the same land, the junior title might, but
for other objections, be allowed under the act of 1836 to be located elsewhere, and then in some sense be deemed inferior.
Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Howard, 449, 464. But Eslava's claim
covers more than that by Farmer's heirs. Beside this, it did
not originate independent of Farmer's, but on the hypothesis
that Farmer's had been abandoned and become vacant, and a
title to the lot is set up also under long possession since, by
Eslava and his grantors. The superior right is then to be settled under these facts, and not as if double patents had been
issued for a title, existing at the same time to the same lot, and
from like sources. There are no other questions raised on the
record by the bill of exceptions, as to overruling the validity or
superiority of either title, in connection with the United States.

448

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. Eslava et aL

Though in the argument, on the side of the plaintiff, the title is
contended to be superior, because commencing earlier, notwithstanding it is broken by an absent deed, and because certified
earlier for confirmation. On the other side, the defendant's is
insisted to possess a higher equity, because accompanied by a
longer possession, an earlier survey, the erection of valuable
buildings, and the claimant being both a Spaniard and resident
when the country was ceded to the United States. But the
State court does not appear to have given instructions on any
of these particulars, or to have been specially requested to do it,
and it is questionable whether the legal effect of any of them,
if considered, would have been very material to the title, when
both titles were treated by the government and the public officers as imperfect grants, and both confirmed at the same time
by the same act 6f Congress. All the right or title really obtained in either from the United States is a confirmation of a
grant and permit made before the cession, and deemed by the
local officers incomplete and imperfect. Yet, so far as derived
or held under the United States, each title was of the same
rank or dignity and duration with the other.
Some questions arose at the trial concerning the construction
of deeds and other conveyan~ces.
In both lines of title,- buildings only are in some instances
nominally conveyed, and not in terms the lots on which they
were situated; in both, too, some.of the boundaries are unsettled, and the quantity of land in dispute by the papers is viewed
differently. But such questions as these are subordinate to the
question of title, and proper for the consideration of the State
court in exercising its appropriate jurisdiction over local questions, and hence not subject to our revision. 13 Peters, 439;
United States v. King, 3 Howard, 773.
Various other objections connected with the paper title on
both sides appear, and almost every year some new difficulty is
started in respect to Spanish and French grants, which is perplexing, and which at times seems to bring into doubt parts of
former decisions.
But the chief trouble in disposing of this class of cases is in
ascertaining the facts, happening under a foreign government,
end after such a long lapse of time, and especially when new
papers and some new witnesses are frequently discovered; and
the aspect of particular claims is often thus materially changed.
Where, however, rights of property have been adjudged, and
litigation in some degree quieted, it is much better to regard
them as binding, than to disturb or change them, and the actual
possession, for slight or doubtful reasons.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

449

Doe v. Eslava et al.

The errors in the law of a case, on the facts at any time presented, are not likely to be material, where the Civil Code is
the basis of it under Spain and France, and when that and its
enlightened equities are well understood, and, with the plain
provisions in treaties and acts of Congress, will lead usually to
correct conclusions.
Only one other source of title, set up under the United States,
remains to be examined. .It is a provision in the fifth section
of the act of May 8th, 1822, giving to the registers and receivers in this part of Alabama "the same powers to direct the
manner in which all lands confirmed by this act shall be located and surveyed, and also to decide between the parties in all
conflicting and interfering claims, as given in " another act
mentioned, 3 Statutes at Large, 700. It is contended that in
1837 they decided such claims, concerning titles between these
parties, and decided them in favor of the plaintiff, and therefore that the State court should have instructed the jury that
his title was the better one.
But we do not consider that the act of May 8th, 1822, and
that of the same date which is connected with it and referred
to as in pari materia for a guide (p. 708), meant to confer the
adjudication of titles of land on registers and receivers (7 Peters, 94). Those officers are not usually lawyers, and their
functions are in general ministerial rather than judicial.
Sometimes, as in the case of pre~mptioners, they are authorized
to decide on the fact of cultivation or not ; and here, from the
words used, no less than their character, they must be considered as empowered to decide on the true l6cation of grants or
confirmations, but not on the legal and often complicated question of title, involving also. the whole interests of the parties,
and yet allowing no appeal or revision elsewhere.
The power given to them, as before quoted, is to decide only
how "the lands confirmed shall be located-and surveyed " (p.
700). The further power "to decide on conflicting and interfering claims" should apply only to the location and survey of
such claims, which are the subject-matter of their cognizance ;
and on resorting to the reference made to the secona. act of
Congress, that act appears to relate also to decisions on intrusions upon possessions and kindred mattdrs (p. 708).
The language concerning this is, if conflicts arise, these officers, in settling them, shall "be governed by such conditional
lines or boundaries as may have been agreed on" before the act
passed, &c. (p. 708). So far from professing themselves to act
on titles, in cases of conflict, they usually take evidence or settle
boundaries alone.
38*

450

SUPREME COU.RT.
Doe v. Eslava et al.

The map from the surveyor's office in Alabama, of 22d April,
1837, confirms this. It is a mere location and survey of the
different tracts ; and the register of the warrant is entitled by
them, "Register of Locations issued for Confirmed Claims,"
&c.
So, in cases of commissions to settle land claims, Congress
seldom intrusts the final adjudication of titles to them, but requires them to report their opinions; and the titles are rejected
or confirmed by Congress, as seems most proper under all the
evidence on a revision of it. 7 Peters, 95; 12 Peters, 453.
The language changes in the acts of Congress when the local
land officers are to act in any way on titles, and the expression
is distinct, "titles and claims," as when asking them for evidence to be reported, as is some imes done in respedt to titles.
See act of March 3d, 1827 (4 Stat. at Large, 240). Or it is
" titles to be referred to and confirmed by Congress" (1 Land
Laws, 437). Or it is expressed that this decision shall not
"be construed to prevent or bar the judicial decision between
persons claiming titles to the lands confirmed." Under these
considerations, we do not feel justified in changing the judgment rendered in the State court. Beside the cases already
referred to in support of this conclusion, we would quote, as
in several respects directly in point, McDonogh v. Millaudon,
3 Howard, 706, 707.
Judgment affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to tp heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Cokrt of .the State of Alabama, and.
was argued by counsel. On -consideration whereof it is now.
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

