10

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et aL

cannot, -therefore, be relied on as a circumstance giving this
court jurisdiction; and being of opinion that on no ground presented by the record can this cause be entertained, we accordingly order that it be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court -of the State of Louisiana for the
Eastern District, and was argued by .counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for
the want of jurisdiction.

Wl.LIAm H. IRWIN, APPELLANT,

V.

GEORGE

0. DXIoN

AND JOHN

A. Dhxio.
Where a right to a public highway is alleged to be violated, and a remedy is sought
through an injunction, it is not issued, either at the instance of a public officer or
private individual, unless there is danger of great, continued, and irreparable in

jury; an, not issued at the instance of an individual, claiming under such public

right, unless he has suffered some private, direct, and material damage beyond the
public at large.

Where the remedy by injunction is sought for an injm-y to an individual, and not
public right, it is necessary also that the right to raise the obstruction should not
be in controversy, or have been settled at law. Otherwise, an injunction is not
the appropriate remedy. Until the rights of the parties are settled by a trial at
law, a temporary injunction only is issued to prevent an irremediable injury.

The principles examined which constitute a dediqation of land to public uses.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia and. County of Alexandria.
It was- a bill filed by the Dixions to restrain the appellant
.from erecting an inclosure in what they claimed to be a public
highway, in the town of Alexandria, by which the said highWay was obstructed, and the ancient lights of the appellees,
looking into the said highway, were darkened; and for an
abatement of the nuisance. The court granied a peipetual injunction, defining the limits of the highway, and requiring the
appellant to remove the nuisance.
: The material facts of the case were as follows. John Fitzgerald and Valentine Peers, on the 25th of April, 1778, received a conveyance of lot 51 in the town of Alexandria, between which and the water of the, Potomac River there wad
"sunken ground," which, on the 17th of September, 1778, was
conveyed by William Ramsay and John Carlyle, in their own

JANUARY

TERI, 1850

11

Irwin v. Dixion et al.

right, and as trustees of the sail town, to the said Fitzgerald
and Peers. A portion of this land was built upon by them,
and that portion which extends from King Street on the north,
running with Union Street on the west to the centre of an alley now called Dock Street, or Fitzgerld's Alley, and running
to the Potomac River, with the building fronting on Union
Street, was, by various deeds, transferred to and vested in
Thomas Irwin, the father of the appellant. Thomas Irwin
was in under his purchase in the year 1802, and continued so
to his death, which happened in the month of January, 1827.
By his will, he directed that all his estate should -be equally
divided between his children, when his son William (the appellant) should arrive at the age of twenty-one; in the mean
time to be managed for their benefit, by his sons Thomas,
James, and William.
A division of the estate was made on the 15th of January,
1835, by which there was assigned to James Irwin a warehouse, on the south side of King Street, and fronting the river;
beginning on King Street, at the northeast corner of said
warehouse, and running thence southwardly, with the east
front of the same, to the centre of the south wall, between
which wall and the warehouse south of it (by this deed allotted to Ann J. Carey) is an alley or open space; then, with
the centre of said south wall, westwardly, to the east side of
the east wall of a warehouse by this deed assigned to William
H. Irwin; then northwardly, with the said east side of the
said last-mentioned warehouse, and the east side of the warehouse hereby assigned to Mary Irwin, to King Street; thence
eastwardly, on King Street, to the beginning: the said warehouse being part of a lot of ground conveyed to said Thomas
Irwin, deceased, by William and J. C. Herbert, and by the
devisees and trustee of John Dunlap. On the 20th of April,
1835, James Irwin conveyed all his real estate in the county of
Alexandria to William L. Hodgson, to secure his brother, William H. Irwin. On the 28th of February, 1842, James Irwin,
to secure the payment of certain debts therein mentioned, with
the consent of William H. Irwin, conveys to John Hooff "all
his, the said James Irwin's, right, title, and interest in and to
th. warehouse situated at the foot of King Street, and then in
the occupancy of John Howard, which property was conveyed
to the said James Irwin by deed of partition between the heirs
of the late Thomas Irwin, deceased, made and executed in the
year 1831, and was afterwards conveyed in trust to the said
Thomas Irwin, to secure his mother, Elizabeth, for what she
had become responsible. Elizabeth Irwin also united in this

12

SUPREME COURT.
Irwiu v.Dixion et al.

deed: James Irwin, having failed to pay the debts intended
by the last-mentioned deed to be secured, the trustee, John
Hooff, set up, pursuant to the deed) and sold the property to
the appellees, who complied with -the terms of sale, and Elizabeth Irwin thereupon united with Hooff in a conveyance of
the property,. describing it as fronting on the Potomac River."
James uhd William H. Irwin did not join in the execution of
this deed.
'The Dixions thus claimed to have all the estate, right,
title, and interest of James Irwin in this property, and this was
the foundationl of their private right.
It further appeared from the record, that, at the time Thomas
Irwin purchased the property, there was a large warehouse at
the corner formed by Union and King Stieets,.and between
that and the rivet was an open space or lot, extending alongthe line of King Street about ninety feet, to a aock at the foot
of King Street. In the year 1804, he built the warehouse
now owned by the Dixions, fronting on King Street and on
the Potomac River. At one period of time, a very large trade
was carried on in these premises, and for years the whole
business of"the house was transacted through the door in the
east front, looking to the river.
The Whole property on Which the buildings stand forms
nearly a square, the west side of which is on Union Street,, the
notth on King Street, the south on a public alley, called Fitzgerald's Alley; and on the east was an open space running along
the front of the buildings from King Street to, and passing beyond, this alley. This space is formed artfficially, and made
solid, and is upwards of forty feet in breadth before the
wharves which project into the river, or the docks running by
the side of the wharves to this open space, are reached. That
part of the open space lying immediately adjacent to the eastern front of the Dixions' property was paved with brick to the
width of about four feet, beyond which, and running along the
.liie of this pavement from King Street to Fitzgerald's Alley,
there is a passage for carts and, passengers; which is commonly
used, and has never been purposely obstructed since the erection of this house, in 1804.
After the purchase by the Dixions of the said warehouse,
the said William H. Irwin erected a wooden fence eight or ten
feet high inclosing a -space nearly twenty-five feet square, the
north side of the inclosure'embracing one of the windows on
-the ground floor in the east part of the building, and projecting
eastward at'right angles to the house, and then southward, dnd
westward, and back to the wall of the other warenouse erected

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

13

Irwin v. Dixion et aL'

by William Irwin, so that it impaired the access to the Dixions'
house, and obstructed their lights, and aiso completely interrupted the passing along the foot-way, and greatly obstructed
the use of the carriage-way.
The Dixions filed their bill to restrain Irwin, and prevent his
ergcting this inclosure, and put their right on the ground of
his darkening their ancient lights; and, also, that he was obstructing a public highway. The injunction was ordered and
served. Irwin persisted in completing the erection, and they'
amended their bill, setting up distinctly that Thomas Irwin in
his lifetiime had dedicated to the public the use of that part
of this open space covered by said inclosure, and the same had
been used by the public as an open street and common highway, and the use of which had been consented to by all the
persons inteested in said property, and by the different owners
of the fee simple of the lots of ground adjoining and bounding
thereon, and by those heretofore claiming title to the said warehouse and lot now owned by the Dixions, and that the same
had been used by the public as a common highway and open
street for upwards of thirty years, for carriages, horses, wagons, and drays of every description, to pass, or stand upon to receive lading, and for doing business of merchandise, or other
business.
The answer of William H. Irwin describes the fence erected
as extending from a post near the Dixions' house, east 26 feet,
then south 26 feet, then west 26 feet, about 10 feet high; but
denies thatit is erected on any public street or strand, or on
land over which tie public have any right of way.
And denies that it covers any part of complainant's window,
and also denies that it diminishes in any perceptible degree the
light passing through it.
That the fence is exclusively on a lot assigned by the deed
of partition to James Irwin, W. H. Irwin, and A. I. Carey, in
common, - the whole property consisting of five warehouses
in a single block, (the main building comprising three, resting
on the west on Union Street, on the north on King Street, and.
on the south on Dock Alley, and the two wings extending east
from the east side of the main building, with an open space
between them,) and of the wharf lot and pier, which commenced at the eastern walls of the two wings, and extended
-unto the river. By the deed of partition the northern wing
was assigned to James Irwin, the southern wing to A. I. Carey,
the middle open space, in connection with the middle warehouse of the main building, to W. H. Irwin, and the wharf lot
and pier, or open space to the east, to the -three in common,
2
VOL. IX.

14

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v.Dixion et al.

on which open space is the erection complained of, the Dixions having purchased the northern wing.
That this open space had been reclaimed from the river by
artificial filling up, requiring constant repair, -was of a perishable quality, - had always been kept in repair exclusively
by Thomas Irwin and his predecessors and heirs, - who had
at all times openly and notoriously asserted their exclusive
ownership over the lot by excluding people from it, by covering it with merchandise, and by renting it especially to the
tenant of the Dixions' warehouse to be used in connection with
it.
That it had been kept open for the convenience of the owners solely, in connection with the wharf; and that the passage
of people over it had been by leave and sufferance, and not as
of right, but in subordination to the rights of the owner.
He denies positively all the allegations of the bill tending
to show the dedication of that space, or any part of it, and also
denies the existence of any street, strand, highway, or passway
of any kind for the public over any part of the wharf lot.
He admits that the inclosure partially obstructs passage over
said lot, but thAt there is still ample space for passage between the fence and wharf for every purpose.
He states that notice was given at the sale that only the
building was sold, - no right existed beyond the wall, - but
that the whole open space we-s private property.
That the interest of A. I. Carey in Thomas Irwin's estate
was settled to her separate use prior to the partition by deed of
10th of August, 1829; W. H. irwin's interest in the warehouse and wharf lot and pier was settled to the separate use of
his wife on her marriage in 1839 ; and that James Irwin had
conveyed his warehouse and interest in the wharf lot to secure
W. H. Irwin for certain debts still due to full value of property.
That he acted as agent of the owners in erecting the fence.
That an agreement, referred to in and. virtually forming part
of the deed of partition, expressly stipulates for the building
on the open space by any two of the owners.
If any right be invaded, he denies that it eauses such irreparable injury to complainants as entitles them to relief in
equity, and avers that the rerfmedy at law is adequate.
He suggests that "fronting the river" is matter of description, to distinguish the warehouse given to James Irwin from
others, not giving it any right beyond the limits granted.
Much evidence was taken on both sides tb show the use of
the lot by the public and by the owner, °the application o

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

15

Irwin v. Dixion et al.

which will appear by referring to the arguments of the respective counsel.
In October, 1846, the counsel for the defendant, Irwin,
moved the court to award an issue to be sent for trial to the
Cifcuit Court of the District of Columbia, on the common law
side thereof, to ascertain whtether the space of ground lying
between the east end of the complainant's warehouse in the
bill mentioned and the Potomac River, or any part thereof,
had ever been dedicated by any fee simple owner thereof, as a
highway, to the use of the public, or whether any, and what,
part thereof had been so dedicated; and if any part thereof
had been so dedicated, when the same was so dedicated.
But the said court overruled the said motion, -and refused to
award the said issue as prayed, or anyissue relating to the dedication of the said space, or any part thereof. To which said
refusal the defendant excepted and objected.
The cause then came on to be heard upon the original and
amended bills of the complainants, the answer of the defendant, and the exhibits and proofs filed by the parties, when the
Circuit Court passed the following decree: "Being fully satisfied that Thomas Irwin, the ancestor of
said defendant, did, in his lifetime, dedicate to the public use a
highway passing along the eastern front of the said warehouse
mentioned in said complainants' bill, and running from King
Street to Dock Street, or Fitzgerald's Alley, in the town of Alexandria, and that the same was used as a highway for many
years befdre the filing of. the said bill; that there was next to
the said warehouse, and within the said highway, a footway
about four feet wide, beyond and next to which was a highway for the passing and repassing of carts, carriages, drays, and
horses, and the same was commonly used by all persons having occasion to use the same: and being further fully satisfied
that the said defendant did, before the filing of the said bill,
erect across the said highway a fence, which he has continued
to this-day, fully obstructing the passage along the said highway; that the said fence is immediately adjacent-to the east
wall of the said house, between two of the windows in the
said east wall, and close to the frame of one of said windows;
that the said fence was a special and material injury to the use
and enjoyment of the said defendant's said -warehouse, and is
a continuing injury to the same, do, this 31st day of October,
1846, adjudge, order, and decree, that the injunction heretofore
issued in this cause be, and the same is hereby, made perpetual.
And they do frther'order and direct, that the said defendant
do forthwith take down and remove the said fence, and that

16

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et al.

he be, and he is hereby, for ever hereafter, so long as the said
footpath and highway shall be continued to be used as such,
enjoined and prohibited from erecting or putting any obstruction in the said highway within the space of nineteen feet
wide, measured east from the eastern wall of said warehouse
of said complainants, and running from King Street to Dock
Street, or Fitzgerald's Alley, as it is indifferently called and
known; which said nineteen feet is hereby declared to be the
eastern limit of said highway, and said highway does extend
no farther east; and that the said defendant pay the costs of
this suit, to be taxed by the clerk."
From this decree, Irwin appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Jones and Mr. Davis, for the
appellant, and by Mr. F. L. Smith and Mr. Bradley, for the
appellees.
On the part of the appellant it was contended, 1. The complainant's evidence does not prove a dedication.
No witness testifies to an actual dedication. Nor is any
such uninterrupted user as of right by the public, and acquiescence by the owners proved, as justifies the inference of a
dedication.
All the answers to this point not excepted to state in general and stereotyped phrase that the wharf lot "has been used
as a common and public highway," &c.;- but when asked, the
witnesses "do not know whether so used by license or as
of right, and several state the piling of goods, &c., over the
open space by Thomas Irwin and the owners, and their receipt
of wharfage therefor, - and their ignorance of any permanent obstruction, and of any prohibition against its use by the
public.
No witness that it was in fact a street, or that it was
known and considered or called such, and the title "strand" is
ine of complainant's own suggestion, while several say there
was no street there.
It does not appear that any permanent erection obstructed
the space.
It does not Appear that any person at any time asserted a
right to pass over or remain on the ground in opposition to Mr.
Irwin.
The defendant proved, 1. That Thomas Irwin, and those claiming under him, did,
by words and acts, assert their right of property in, and of control over, the wharf lot, without dispute.
2. That it was generally reputed their property.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

17

• Irwin v. Dixion et al.

3. That they occupied it for commercial purposes, covering
it with lumber, goods, wood, &c., &c.
4. That it was made ground, of perishable quality, and kept
in repair by them.
5. That they assumed and exercised a discretionary right
of removing persons from the property, but did not churlishly
exclude persons from passing, when not inconvenient.
6. That it was assessed to them as private property.
7. That it was essential that the wharf lot should be left
uninclosed for convenient use, and the passage was kept open
for that purpose.
8. That the pavement was short,- only before and for the
use of the warehouse purchased by Dixion, - not from street
to street ; and put there since T. Irwin's death.
9. That the wharf lot and pier- the whole designated as
the wharf- was rented to vessels and steamboats, at the customary wharfage, for landing goods and passengers, who necessarily passed over said space to reach the streets, thus
giving it the appearance of being a public thoroughfare, when
in reality people only exercised a privilege paid for, implying
no public right.
10. That the Dixions' house fronts on King Street, and so
does not require a right of way over this lot; and the wharf
being private property, they could not reach the river over it
but by defendant's permission.
11. That the Dixions purchased with full notice of the rights
of defendant's principals to the open space, and subject to the
agreement.
12. That the injury to the warehouse of the Dixions from
the fence was not serious and irreparable, but slight and trifling.
13. That the light was not in any perceptible degree excluded from the window, or, if at all, not materially lessenel.
14. That property similarly situated, and open, on other
parts of the wharves of Alexandria, is treated as private property, and built on at pleasure.
Whereupon the counsel for the appellant contended,I. - 1. That a fee-simple title to the warehouses, wharf lot,
and pier in Thomas Irwin, his predecessors and heirs, is proved.
2. That no express dedication is shown, and, on the contrary, it is disproved by the answer and otherwise.
3. That user is only evidence whence the court are to infer
a dedication.
4. That, to form a sufficient foundation for that inference, it
must have been uninterrupted, peaceable, with the knowledge
and acquiescence of the fee-simple owner, and as of right.
2*

18

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et al.

5. And that any fact, act, or public declaration, showing that
the owner did not acquiesce in the user by the public as of
right, - did not mean to abandon his right to the public, - is
sufficient to prevent the acquisition, by virtue of the user, of a
right of way. Nichols v. Aylor, 7 Leigh, 546; Stafford v.
Coyney, 7 B. & C. 257; 14 E. C. L. R. 39, 40, 41; Skeen v.
Lynch, 1 Robinson, 186; Jarvls v. Dean, 3 Bingh. 447; 13 E.
C. L. R. 45, 46 ; Wood v.Veal, 5 B. & Ald. 454 ;. 7 E. 0. L. R.
158; Gray v. Bond, 2 B. & B. 671, 672, 667; Denning v.
Roome, 6 Wend. 651, 655-658; New Orleans v. United
States, 10 Pet. 713; Cincinnati v. White's Lessee, 6 Pet. 431;
Barclay v. Howell, 6 Pet. 498, 502, 503; Harper v. Charlesworth, 4 B. & C. 574; Woodyer v. Hadden, 5 Taunt. 126;
1 E. C. L. R. 34, 38, 41; 2 Starkie's Ev. 380, 381; Gray v.
Bond, 2 B. & B. 667; Law of Easements, 83, 84; Commonwealth v. Low, 3 Pick. 408; 2 United States Stat. at Large
(Act of 1804, § 5); Rex i,.Wandsworth, 1 B. & Ald. 63; Br.
Museum v. Finnis, 5 Car. & P. 460; 8 Ad. & El. 99.
If any dedication be proved, it is of a general right of passage over some part of the lot, liable to be varied at the convenience of the owners, though not to be cut off entirely, and
not of a way next the house ; but this, as also the decree, is
at variance with the, pleadings.
II. If the dedication be sufficiently proved, still no such irreparable damage, irremediable at law, .and sufficient to give
equity jurisdiction, is proved. 2 Story's Eq. § 923, 924, 926 ;
17 Ves. 617, 623; 4 H. & M. 474; Gardner v. Newburgh, 2
Johns. Oh. 165; Georgetown v. Alex. Canal Co., 12 Pet. 97,
99; Van B~rgen v. Van Bergen, 3 Johns. Ch. 282, 287; Parker
v. Smith, 5 C. & P. 438; Back v. Stacey, 2 C. & P. 465; Law
of Easements, 285, 315, 319; Attorney-General v. Nichol, 16
Ves. 338; 2 Russ. 121.
III. That the court should have awarded a trial at law.
Law of Easements, 314, 315, 316; Weller v. Sipeaton, 1 Cox,
102; Wynstanley v. Lee, 2 Swanst. 336; Robinson v. Ld.
Byron, 1 Bro. C. 0. 588; Attorney-General v. Cleaver, 18 Ves.
211; Crowder v. Tinkler, 19 Ves. 622, 627; Sutton v. Ld.
Montfort, 4 Sim. 559; 6 Johns. Oh. 439
IV. Prescription for ancient windows is here impossible,
owing to unity of possession in Thomas Irwin, and no 6ther
ground of right is alleged or proved. Morris v. Edgington, 3
Taunt. 24.
V. There is no such obstruction of light, either in mode or
extent, as gives equity jurisdiction. Attorney-Gen. v. Nichol, 16
Ves. 338; 2 Suppl. to Ves. 340; Wynstanley v. Lee, 2 Swanst.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

19

Irwin ,,. Dixion et al.

333 ; Parker v. Smith, 5 0. & P. 438; Back v. Stacey, 2 C. &
P. 465; Law of Easements, 285, 134, 135; Martin v. Goble,
1 Camp. 320, 323.
VI. That proper parties have not been made. Story's Eq. P1.,
231; Osborn v. Bank of U. States, 5 Cond. R. 742,760; M'Namara v. Williams, 6 Ves. 143; Le Tenier v. Marg. of Anspach,
15 Ves. 164, 165; 1 Daniell's Ch. Pr. 301, 302; 2 Atk. 515.
VII. That DLxion is bound by the stipulations of the agreeTent referred to in the partition, and estopped from controverting the right of defendant's principals to build on the wharf
lot. Carver v. Jackson, 4 Peters, 83, 86, 88, 58; Denn v. Cornell, 3 Johns. Cas. 174; Crane v. Morris and Astor's Lessee, 6
Pet. 611, 612; Mason v. Muncaster, 9 Wheat. 445; Ben v.
Peete, 2 Rand. 540, 542, 546, 547; 2 Lomax's Dig. 209; 2
B. & Ad. 278; Shelly v. Wright, Willes, 9; 1 Starkie's Ev.
206, note; 4 Peters, 83 ; Burnett v. Lynch, 5 B. & C. 589 ;
Burleigh v. Stibbs, 5 T. R. 465, 466; Habergham v. Vincent,
2 Yes. jr. 227, 228; Higginson v. Clowes, 15 Ves. 522; Story's
Eq. P1. § 572; 5 Sim. 640; 14 Yes. 211, 214.
On the part of the appellees it was contended,First. There may be a dedication of a right of passage to
the public without any formal deed or wfiting. Lade v. Shepherd, 2 Str. 1004, cited and approved by this court in City
of Cincinnati v. The Lessee of White, 6 Peters, at pages 437
and 438, and this last case at length. See this doctrine reviewed and affirmed in 10 Peters, at pages 712, 713.
Second. TWis dedication may be inferred from notorious acts
of user, with the knowledge of the owner of the fee. Valentine v. Boston, 22 Pick. 75. The enjoyment of such use by
the public for a period beyond the statute of limitations creates
a right in the public. Valentine v. Boston, 22 Pick. 75, 80;
Barclay v. Howell, 6 Peters, 513. And the breadth. or extent
of thd highway is a question 6f fact, to be collected from the
circumstances of the case. Sprague v. Waite, 17 Pick. 309;
Hannum v. Belchertown, 19 Pick. 311.
Besides, in this case, in the deed of partition between the
heirs of Thomas Irwin, this warehouse is described as "fronting the river, beginning on King Street, at the northeast corner
of the said warehouse, and running thence southwardly with
the east front of the same" -and in the deed to the Dixions, as
"fronting on the Potomac River." The proof, too, is full,
that for a series of years, and almost from the period of its
erection, this was the principal business front through which
the transactions of the house were carried on, and there was a

20

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et al.

brick pavement along that front. These are all controlling circumstances to show that a thoroughfare running along the
front was contemplated by the owner, and used by the occupants of the house and the public. These facts give to that
description a definite and precise meaning. William H. Irwin
and Mrs. Carey were parties to the deed of partition; and in
the description of the warehousd assigned to Mrs. Carey, the
first line is given to begin "at the southeast corner of said
warehouse on said alley, then north with the east front of the
same." In the same deed of partition, it will be seen in the
allotment to William H. Irwin, express power is given to him
to close the windows on the south side of James's and the north
side of Mrs. Carey's warehouses, looking into the alley between
them, which alley also is assigned to William A. Irwin; and
also, on the same page, "the warehouse fronting east on said
wharf allotted to Ann J. Carey" is specially referred to. No
authority is given to obstruct, in any marnner, the openings and
windows on these "east "fronts," or to raise those walls any
higher. These are satisfactory proofs of a conveyance, bounding on some open space between the houses and the river. It
is a front boundary. "Front," in the common usage of the
word' in relation to town property,- necessarily imports access.,
The-deeds of partition, therefore, and the mdsne conveyances
to the Dixions, contain language necessarily, ex vi termini, importing an access to the eastern entrances into these buildings,
and, coupled with the other circumstances, show a clear intent
to recognize a common highway. If so, the rule is clear, and
it is a complete dedication if there were none before. 1 Hill,
N. Y. 189; Ibid. 191; 19 Wend. 128.
Nor is it necessary, in such a case, that the user should have
continued twenty years. -Barclay v. Howell, 6 Pet. 513.
Third. The evidence in this case shows that Thomas Irwin, being the owner of the soil, opened a passage over it from
King Street to Dock Street, along the eastern front of this
house; that he did not, by -any visible distinctive mark, show
that bhe meant to preserve all his rights over it, nor did he exclude persons from passing at pleasure, but did permit the public for nearly thirty years, and his heirs, after his death, for
more than ten years additional, to pass and repass, as in a common highway, over the passage thus opened by him; and- this
is a dedication of such use to the public. Rex v. Lloyd, 1
Camp. 262; Jarvis v. Dean, 3 Bingh. 447; Daniel v. North, 11
East, 372, opinion of Le Blanc, and note (a); Rex v. Barr, 4
Camp. 16; Aspindall v. Brown, 3 T. R. 265.
Fotirth. 'The right to a free passage over the highway is all

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

21

Irwin v. Dixion et aL

the public acquires; the fee remains in the original grantor,
and he may necessarily use it, and exercise every right and
control over it not inconsistent with the free passage given to
the public. Com. Dig., tit. Chimin., let. A. 1 ; Barclay v. Howell, 6 Pet. 513, 514; Lade v. Shepherd, 2 Stra. 1004.
The acts of ownership supposed to have been proved on the
part of Thomas Irwin and his heirs, and ds negativing this
right of way, if consistent with the public use to which it was
dedicated, do not in any degree impair that public right. They
are, he used it "as any and every other person "; "kept it-in
repair at his own cost"; would not let cartmen and draymen
stand their drays and carts on the ground, being unwilling
to have the ground stamped and trodden into holes; "drove off
persons with their drays or carts"; "horses standing there
with drays or carts stamped the ground into holes; and in flytime created great annoyance" ; he would "take a whip from
some of those near him, and go and drive off some half dozen
of the carts and drays, and if the drixers griambled at it, he
would tell them to go and stand on the corporation grounds,
for which they paid taxes; that they paid nothing for standing
on the space from which he drove them; piled wood there,
leaving room for the carts to pass." He paid taxes for the
whole ground, not discriminating between this highway and
the residue of the property. These acts are all entirely consistent With the dedication to, and use of the highway by,
the public. Lade v. Shepherd, 2 Stra. 1004; Com. Dig., tit.
Chimin., let. A. 3.
Nor is it any answer to say, he was the owner on both, sides
of the highway, and kept it open for his own use.
1. He did not in any way limit or restrict it. 1 Camp. 262.
2. The deed of partition separated the property, and the
use previous to and following upon that deed clearly defines
what the rights of the parties under that deed should be. 1
Hill, 189, 191; 19 Wend. 128.
Fifth. We assume that we have shown a highway, and the
right of the Dixions to a "front" on that highway, and to ancient windows looking out upon it. it is beyond dispute, that
W. H. Irwin, by the fence and building complained of, obstructed the highway, impaired that front, and injured those
ancient lights. This gives the: right to a remedy by injunction, at the instrnce of the party thus injured. It is a public
nuisance, by which also private parties are directly injured, and
an injunction is the proper remedy. Coming v. Lowerre, 6
Johns. Ch. 439. And the principle is stated in Crowder v.
Tinkler, 19 Yes, 617,623; Spencer v. Lond. and Birm. R. R.

22

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et al.

Co., 8 Sim. 193; Sampson v. Smith, 8 Sim. 272 ; and see
Corporation of Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Company, 12
Peters, 91, 98, 9(. And see the cases in 3 Daniell, Ch. Pr.
1858 and notes.
Sixth. The court was right in defining the limits of the
highway, The proof of the pavement is quite clear. It was
four feet wide. The proof of a highway wide enough for
two carts or drays to pass each other is equally clear. The
court allowed fifteen feet for this highway, in addition to the
four feet for the footpath. This is the least space which could
be used for that purpose, and allows but seven feet and a half
for each cart. The spade-between the warehouse and the dock
is about forty feet, and the space left for the passage of the
public was "fifteen or twenty feet." The anchors were piled
so as to fill up about half way.
A jury would haive the right to find the limits of the highway. Hannum v. Belchertown, 19 Pick. 311; and see the
cases cited under the fifth point.
Seventh. The court was right to order the nuisance to be
abated and removed, and to make the injunction perpetual;
because, at the time of the service of the first injunction, the
obstruction was incomplete, and the appellant proceeded to finish it in direct contempt of the court. Van Bergen v. Van
Bergen, 2 Johns. Ch. 272; -East India Co. v. Vincent, 2 Atk.
83; Ryder v. Bentham, 1 Yes. sen. 542.
And it is clearly one of the great objects of this jurisdiction, when the public and private injuries are combined, to cause
the nuisance to be abated peaceably, and to prevent its recurrence.
The corporate authorities of the town of Alexandria have
possessed and exercised control over the streets and highways
in said town ever since its incorporation. They also limit and
regulate the -wharves. The various acts of the General Assembly of Virginia, except the act of 1782, hereinafter referred to,
and the acts of Congress, the first establishing and incorporating, .nd the latter amending, the charter of the town of Alexandria, will be found collected in Davis's Laws of the District
of Columbia.
The town of Alexandria was established in 1748. (See
Davis's Laws, p. 533.) Sixty acres of land were appropriated
for its location, on the south, side of the Potomac River, the
meanders of the river forming its eastern boundary. In 1762,
(Davis, 536,) the trustees of the town were authorized to onvey to settlers certain lots embraced within specified boundaries, "beginning at the corner "of the lot denoted in the plan

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

23

Irwin v. Dixion et. al.

of said town by the figures 77, and extending thence down the
river."
In 1779, the town of Alexandria was incorporated (Davis,
541). At page 542, the power is given to the mayor, recorder,
and aldermen, "to assess the inhabitants for the charge of repairing the streets and highways." In 1782, an act was passed (see Henning's Statutes at Large, Vol. I1 p. 44), giving to
the corporate authorities of Alexandria the power, which they
are required to exercise, "to open 'and extend Water Street
through the said town, from north to south, as far as the limits
of the said town extend, and also to lay off Union Street, from
north to south, as far as the limits of the said town extend."
By an act of Congress approved May 13th, 1826 (Davis, 385,
386), Alexandria having been then ceded to the general government, power is given the Common Council of said town
"to erect, repair, and regulate public wharves, deepen docks
and basins, and to limit the extension of private wharves."
Congress had previously, by an act approved February 25,
1804 (Davis, 161, 163), conferred on the Common Council of
Alexandria power " to pave, make, and repair the streets and
highways."
The ground claimed as a highway is no part of the wharf
alleged to belong to the heirs of Thomas Irwin, but an open
strand, or slip of ground, between the first range of warehouses
and the wharves. The paper referred to as defendant's exhibit
five gives, and can give, no authority to create a public nuisance. The highest legislative power can confer no such right.
Besides, the paper has no bearing on the points at issue in this
cause.
The deed of partition among the heirs of Thomas Irwin
provides that they "have agreed to make partition of the real
estate, land, annuities, and rent charges devised to them as
aforesaid, from their father, the said Thomas Iiwin, deceased,
and do, by these presents, make full, perfect, and absolute partition of all and singular, the same, as is more particularly allotted
and described in the schedule hereto annexed; as a part of this
deed, with each, all, and every the rights, privileges, and appurtenandes, grants, covenants, claims, and conditions 'whatsoever, to.each and all of the said lots, pieces of ground, annuities,
and Fent charges beionging, or in any case appertaining," &c.
The warehouse purchased by the Dixions was, under this
deed of partition, allotted to James Irwin, and by him conveyed
in the manner stated. We submit, that, upon the severance of
the estate by the deed of partition, the privilege of access to
the eastern front of the warehouse, and of the right of way

SUPREME

COURT.

Irwin v. Dixion et al.

along said front, -which existed during the unity of tile estate,
passed by implied grant to James Irwin, and by subsequent
conveyances to those holding under him. See 3 Kent's Com.
C6th ed.), p. 434, and note (c), referring to Gale and Whatley's
Treatise on Easements, p. 49; 1 Green, (N. J.) 57; Law of
Easements, 38- 52. A like principle applies as to the enjoyment of ancient rights. 1 Saunders on Pleading and Evidence,
81, and cases there cited.
Under the grant of the warehouse and lot to the Dixions,
there passed whatever was necessary to its beneficial use and
enjoyment. The rule of law is well settled, that a right of
way, or other appurtenant to land, will pass by a grant of the
land, without any mention being made of the easement or appurtenant. Kent v. Waite, 10 Pick. 141; United States v.
Appleton, 1 Sumner, 492; 3 Kent's Com. (6th ed.), p. 420;
Hazard v. Robinson, 3 Mason, 272; Plant v. James, 5 Barn. &
Adolph. 791; Jackson v. Hathaway, 15 Johns. 447; Truehart
v. Price, 2 Munf. 468.
The appellees insist that the evid~nee conclusively proves
that the obstruction erected by William H. Irwin is a public
nuisance, and that it is not rendered less a nuisance by the assertion that there is still left a passway in front of their warehouse. Whatever obstruction narrows a highway, or renders
4 Bac. Abr. 214, tit.
it less commodious, is a nuisance.
Highpays; 16 Vin. Abr., tit. Nuisance (B), p. 20 ; The King v.
Russell, 6 East, 427 ; Dimmett ef al. v. Eskridge, 6 Munf. 308.
Further to sustain the first point on brief, we cite 3 Kent's
Com. (6th ed.), p. 428, note (a), 450, 451, notes (a) and (b),
and cases there cited; Galatian v. Gardner, 7 Johns. 106 ; Gale
and Whatley on Easements, p. 52 (note 6); Beatty et al. v.
Kurtz et al., 2 Peters, 568; McConnell v. Trustees of the
Town of Lexington, 12 Wheat. 582; Town of Powlett v.
Clark, 9 Cranch, 331; 2 Starkie on Ev. (ed. 1830), tit. Highway, pp. 663 - 666; Tick et al. v. Mayor of Vicksburg, 1 How.
Miss. 379; Trustees of Watertown v. Cowen, 4 Paige, 510;
Cleveland v. Cleveland, 12 Wend. 172; 19 Pick. 405; 4 N.
Hanp. 1.
Under the fourth point in brief, we cite 3 Kent's Com.
(6th ed.), pp. 432, 433, 434, and notes to those pages.
In addition to the cases cited in brief, point fifth, we refer
the court to 3 Kent's Com. (same ed.), p. 448; 2 Story, Eq.
Jur. §§ 925, 926, 926 (a); 1 Madd. Ch. Pr. 155; Jeremy, Eq.
Jur. 310, 311.
To sustain the seventh point in brief, 2 Story. Eq. Jur.
924, and cases there cited.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

25

Irwin v. Dixion et al.

We further maintain, that William H. Irwin is the only ne
cessary party defendant; because the case is one of malfea..
sauce only. The title to the ground over which was the high.
way, and where the obstruction was erected, was not involved.
Lowe v. Munford, 14 Johns. 426; Sumner v. Tileston, 4 Pick.
308; City of Cincinnati v. White, 6 Peters, 442.
That the Dixions gave a fair value for the warehouse, with
the right of way and access to the eastern front, as it had .existed for forty years. See the valuation of the real estate of
Thomas Irwin, at p. 167 of record. The warehouse described
as being iii the occupancy of A. G. Fleming is that which was
purchased by the Dixions at $ 2,860, whereas it is there valued
at $ 2,200.
As to appellant's third point, see Story's Equity, 1478, 1479.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an appeal from a decree in the Circuit Court of
the District of Columbia for the County of Alexandria.
The proceedings on which the decree was entered had been
in substance as follows.
The Dixions, September 6, 1844, filed a bill in chancery,
setting out their purchase, in October, 1843, of a certain warehouse in Alexandria, "with all the rights and appurtenances to
the same belonging," and that they had since been in quiet
possession of the same; that this warehouse "fronts, on the
east, the River Potomac, and the doors and windows of said
front open on a strand, which has been used uninterruptedly as
a public highway for upwards of thirty years"; that said
strand or street is the great thoroughfare for that part of 'the
town between the river and the last range of warehouses fronting thereon, and "has always been used as a common and
public highway for the free and uninterrupted passage and intercourse of the public "; and that said warehouse and doors
and windows "have been erected upwards of thirty years,
without any effort or claim heretofore to obstruct the same."
The bill then charged, that William H. Irwin, on the 5th
of Septermber, 1844, prepared materials and employed carpenters to close up and obstruct the doors and windows of the
plaintiffs, thus situated, claiming the right to do the same,
and intends forthwith to nail plank over it, or build a fence
"just in front of the said warehouse, whereby its use and
value would be greatly and seriously injured"; and, unless
prevented, it "will cut off all direct intercourse between the
said front and the said public strand and the River Potomac."
They therefore prayed an injunction to prevent it, allegvoL. IX.
3

26

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et al.

*ing it would amount to a nuisance, and constitute an irre-

parable ihjury to their property, and asked further to have it
abated, if already erected. An amended bill was afterwards
filed on the 21st day of September, 1844, as if at that
time original, and varying from the. first bill chiefly by describing the fence as then erected, and over eight feet high,
and obstructing a window in the warehouse, and extending
in front of it about eight feet; and averring that Irwin had
refused'to obey the temporary injunction already issued. It
also alleged, that a dedication of this- land had been made to
the public by the respondent and his predecessors, and an
easement thereby accrued to the public over it; and, that
the fence was both a private and public nuisance, and caused
to the complainants irreparable damage.
The answer of-the respondent. filed in April, 1846, admitted the erection of a fence near the place, as alleged in the
bill, and constituting an inclosure about twenty-six feet square,
but denied that it obstructed, "in any perceptible degree," the
light of 'any of tne windows of the complainant, or stood on
any public highway. On tne contrary, the answer averred
that it stood on the 11wharf property and pier," which belonged to him, his brother 'James, and sister Ann, in cofnmon,
from their father's estate ; and which flad always been claimed,
used, aid belonged to their father and them as private property. After many further allegations in defence, and putting
in various exhibits and much evidence on both sides, as appears in detail in the statement of this case, the Circuit Court
declared itself to be fully satisfied that Thomas Irwin, the
ancestor of the said defendant, did in his lifetime dedicate to
the public use a highway passing along the eastern front
of said warehouse, &c., "and that the same was used for
many years before the filing of the said bill, and 'that there
was next to the said warehouse, and within the said highway, a foot-way about four feet wide, beyond and next to
which was a highway for the passing and repassing of carts,
carriages," &c., "1and the same -was commonly used by all
persons having oocasion to use the same.' "1And being further fully satisfied that the said defendant did, before the filing of said bill, erect across the said highway a fence, which
he hath contiqued to this day, fully obstructing the passage
along, the said highway," and, being built immediately adjoining said warehouse and its windows, that it was a special
and material injury to the use and enjoyment of the warehouse,
the court did adjudge, order, and decree, "that the injunction
heretofore issued- in the cause be, and the same is hereby,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

27

Irwin v. Dixion et al.

made perpetual." The court further ordered, that the fence
be removed by Irwin, and that he be enjoined from obstructing in. any manner said highway " within the space of nineteen feet wide measured east from thp eastern wall of said
warehouse," &c.
It will be seen that the decree below proceeds chiefly on
the ground, that a legal public highway exists, running nineteen feet wide east of the warehouse and immediately contiguous to the same, and that a wrong has been done by the
respondent by obstructing that highway. It is true, that the
decree speaks also of the obstruction being injurious to the
warehouse and private rights of the plaintiffs, and so does the
bill. But the gravamen of both is the'existence of a public
highway where the fence runs.
In our opinion, whether looking to the private or public
rights and privileges which are alleged to be obstructed, this
proceeding cannot be sustained. The state of some of the
circumstapce3 renders the injunction asked here'not a proper
form of remedy for the supposed damage to any private interests, and the principal ground of complaint for a public as
well as private wrong in preventing travel across the alleged
highway is not satisfactorily made out by showing clearly the
existence of such highway.
As to the first ground of objection. This form of remedy
was one much questioned, as permissible either to.the public
or an individual, in the case of a public right of this kind
invaded. 3 Mylne & Keen, 180; 2 Johns. Ch. 380; 16
Yes. 138. And, when at last deemed allowable, it was only
where the community at large, or some individual, felt interested in having the supposed nuisance immediately prostrated on account of its great, continued, and irreparable
injury; and it was then used as a sort of preventive remedy
to a multiplicity of suits, and in cases where an action at
law would yield too tardy and imperfect redress. Osborne
v. United States Bank, 9 Wheal. 840, 841; 14 Conn. 581;
21 Pick. 344; Eden on Injunction, ch. 11; 7 Johns. Ch. 315;
Jerome v. Ross, 17 Conn. 375; 3 Mylne & Keen, 177; 1 Stor.
Eq Jur. 25. When, however, delay can safely be tolerated, the
usual remedy in such cases,.by or in behalf of the public, is
an indictment rather than an injunction. 12 Peters, 98; Bac.
Abr., Nuisance, D; Co. Lit. 56. a; 19 Pick. 154; Willes, 71;
Wilkes's case. .2 Bingh. N. R. 295, 281; 1 Bingh. N. R. 222;
2 Stor. Eq. Jur. 923. And no remedy whatever exists in
these cases by an individual, unless he has suffered some private, direct, and material damage beyond the public at large;

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et al.

as well asdamage otherwise irreparable. Hawk. P. C., ch. 75;
Rowe v. Granite Bridge, 21 Pick. 344; Stetson v. Faxon, 19
Pick. 147, 511; 1 Penn. St. R. 309; 6 Johns. Ch. 439; City of
Georgetown v. Alex. Can. Co., 12 Peters, 97, 98; 2 Ld. Raym.
1163; O'Brien's case, 17 Conn. 342; and Bigelow's case, 14
Conn. 565; 3 Daniell, Oh. Pr. 1858; Spencer v. London and
Birm. R. R. Co., 8 Sir. 193, and Sampson-v. Smith, ib. 272;
12 Peters, 98; 18 Yes. 217; 2 Johns. Ch. 382.
In cases of injury to individual rights by obstructions or
supposed nuisances, an injunction is still less favored, and does
not lie at all permanently, in England and most of the States,
unless the injury is not only greater to the complainant than to
others; and of a character urgent and otherwise irremediable at
law, but the right or title to raise the obstruction is not in controversy, or is first settled at law. -(See cases hereafter.) When
all these prerequisites exist, an indiyidual, rather than only a
public officer, has been allowed in chancery to obtain a perpetual injunction, though for a supposed public nuisance. 2 Stor.
Eq. Jur. 924; 6 Johns. Ch. 439. But it is better for him,
whether the nuisance be public or private, when the injury is not
great and pressing, to resort for redress to a private action at
law; and such, though not the only course, is the one most
appropriate and'safe. (See same cases, and others in Bac. Abr.
Nuisances, B; Wynstanley v. JIee, 2 Swanston, 337.) In this
last case, much like the present, an injunction was refused. So
Attorney-General v. Nichol, 16 Yes. 339, and Wilson v. Cohen, 1
Rice, Ch, 80. One reason for this is the peculiar damage to him
beyond that to others, which must be proved, when the extraordinary remedy by injunction is sought in his name either for
a private or public nuisance. Another is, the great, pressing,
and otherwise irremediable nature of the injury done, which
must also be then proved,'and which is not entirely without
doubt in the present case.
But more especially is this form of remedy not expedient to
be adopted, unless indispensable from the character of the damage, as an individual is not in point of law allowed at first any
thing but a temporary injunction to preserve the property uninjured till an answer can be filed admitting or denying the
right of the plaintiff, and, if doing the latter, till a trial at law can
be had of that right, when desired by the defendant or deemed
proper by the court. And when the right or title to the place
in controversy, or to do the act complained of, is, as here, doubtful, and explicitly denied in the answer, no permanent or perpetual injunction will usually be granted till such trial at law is
had, settling the contested rights and interests of the parties.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

29

Irwin v. Dixion et al.

2 Swanst. 352; 2 Johns. Ch. 546, in Johnson v. Gere; Storm v.
Mann, 4 Johns. Ch.21; Akrill v. Selden, 1 Barbour, 316; Crowder v. Tinkler, 19 Yes. 622; Weller v. Smeaton, 1 Cox, 102.
See Parker et al. v. Perry et al., 1 Woodb. & Minot, 280; 2
Story's Eq. Jur. §§ 927, 1479; 1 Ves. sen. 543; Rider's case,
6 Johns. Ch.46; 3 Daniell's Ch. Pr. 1850 and 1860; Woodworth v. Rogers, 1 Railroad Cas. 120; 19 Ves. 144, 617; Bac.
Abr., Injunction, A; Anonymous, 1 Bro. C. C. 572; 3 Merivale, 688; 1 Bland, Ch. 569; 1 Vernon, 120-270; Ambler,
164; Drewry on Inj. 182, 238; 17 Ves. 110; 8 Ves. 89; 2 Bro.
Ch. 80 ; 2 Ves. 414; 7 Ves. 305 J Birch v. Holt, 3 Atk. 726 ; 3
Johns. Ch.287; Higgins et al. v. Woodward et al., 1 Hopkins,
342; Attorney-General v. Hunter, 1 Dev. Eq. 12; 8 Sim. 189;
14 Conn. 578; Hilton v.- Granville, 1 Craig & Phil. 283, and
Harman v. Jones, ib. 299, 302 ; Ingraham v. Dunnell, 5 Met.126; 6 Pick. 376; Wynstanley v. Lee, 2 Swanst. 355; Yard
v. Ford, 2 Saund. 172; Birm. Can. C. v. Lloyd, 18 Ves. 515
and 211. The true distinction in this class of cases is, that, in
a prospect of irremediable injury by what is apparently a nuisance, a temporary or preliminary injunction may at once issue.
1 Cooper's Sel. Cas. 333; Earl of Ripon v. Hobart, 3 Mylne &
Keen, 169 174-179; 6"Ves. 689, note; 7 Porter, 238; Hart
v. Mayor of Albany, 3 Paige, 213; Shubrick v. Guerard, 2
Dessaussure, 619; 1 Craig. & Phil. 283; 4 Sirtons, 565, inSutter's case. But not a permanent or.perpetual one till the title,
if disputed, is settled at law. 1 Paige, 97; State v. Mayor of
Mobile, 5 Porter, 280, 316. (See authorities last cited.) In
some of the State it is understood that the practice in this last
respect is otherwise. In the celebrated case of rhe United
States Bank v. Osborne, 9 Wheat. 739, it will be sedn. that the
answers (742, 743) did not deny the title of the plaintiffs, and
the Chief Justice says (8585, -"The'responsibility of the officers of the State for the money taken out of the bank Nas admitted." But a case entirely in point on this difficult question in
this tribunal is The State of Georgia v. Brailsford et al., 2 Dallas, 406-408. There, a temporary injinetion issued, not to
pay over money "till the right to it is fairly decided." And on
an issue to a special jury, the Irial was had before a final decision was made on a permanent injunction. 3 Dallas, 1 and 5.
This condition of things as to the form of the remedy adopted
here, where the damage was so small and the right was in controversy, is very unfavorable to the correctness of the final decree in the court below,, awarding a perpetual injunction to the
plaintiffs on their private account, and more especially so tar as
it rested on any private rights to any part of the open space.-

30

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et al.

But beside these objections to the course of proceedihg followed in this case, the chief foundation for relief of any k. 'd
which is set up here seems to fail. It is the allegation and decree that a public highway exists in front of the warehouse of
the plaintiffs. This seems to us unsupported by the evidence
and the law.
There is no claim that such a highway was ever legally laid
out by the city or county of Alexandria. But th6 plaintiffs in
the court below rely for its existence chiefly if not entirely, on
a user of it by the public as a highway forl more than thirty
years. The counsel for the plaintiffs have placed it in akgument, as is one ground in the amended bill, on the principle
that it showed'a dedication of the locus in quo to the public
for a highway, as well as furnishing presumptive evidence, not
rebutted here, of a title in the public of a right of way there
by long user. First, as to the dedication. It is true that this
may at times be proved by a use of land, allowed unconditionally and fully to the public for a period of thirty years, or even
less. Cincinnati v. White, 6 Peters, 431; 22 Pick. 78-80.
In Jarvis v. Dean, 3 Bingham, 447, the public use had been
only four or five years, but with the owner's assent. See also
6 Peters, 513. "Such use, however," says Justice Thompson
in 6 Peters, 439, "ought to be for such a length of time that the
public accommodation and private rights might be materially
affected by an interruption of the enjoyment "1; and if the time
of the use by the public be long, as, for instance, over twenty
years, and unexplained, the presumption is strong for a dedication. McConnell v. Trustees of Lexington, 12 Wheat. 582;
3 Kent's Com. 445; 6 Peters, 513; 10 Peters, 718.
There is, then, no difficulty here in deciding that the length
of tinie of the user was enough, it having been twenty or thirty years.
But the dedication must also be under such circumstances
as to indicate ant abandonment of the use exclusively to the
community by the owner of the soil. 4 Camp. N. P. 16; 1
Camp. N. P. 262; 11 East, 370; 3 D. & E. 265; Jarvis v.
Deap, 3 Bingh. 447; 22 Pick. 75. Hence there must not have
been, as here, repeated declarations made by the owner inconsistent with any dedication. 7 Leigh, 546. 665; Liv~tt v.
Wilson, 3 Bingh. 116.
Nor must the acts and words be equivocal or ambiguous on
that subject:
In-short, the idea of a dedication to the public of a use of
land for a public road must rest on the dlear assent of the
owner, in some way, lo stich dedication. Nichols v. Aylor, 7'

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

81

Irwin v. Dixion et al.

Leigh, 546; Johnson's case, 8 Adolphus & Ellis, 99; 1 -iill,
189, 191; 19 Wendell, 128; 3 Bingh. 447; 1 Camp. N. P.
262 ; 6 Peters, 431 ; 3 Kent's Com. 445; Sargent v. Ballard, 9
Pick. 256. This as~ent may be proved by a deed or unsealed
writing expressing such assent, or,. as no fee in the land, but
only an easement generally is given, it may be by parol or by
acts inconsistent and irreconcilable with any construction except such consent. 6 Peters, 437 ; 10 Peters, 712 ; 3 Kent's
Coin. 428, 450; 7 Johns. 106; 2 Peters, 508; 12 Wheat. 582;
9 Cranch, 331; 4 Paige, 510; 12 Wendell, 172; 19 Pick. 406;
4 Mason, 1.
Thus, it has been presumed, if one makes a plan of his land
in a city with ceitain streets laid down between certain lots,
and sells the lots accordingly, that he thus means to dedicate
those streets to the public. See United States v. Chicago, 7
How. 196, and cases cited there from Wendell; White v.
Cower et al., 4 Paige, 510; Barclay v. Howell's Lessee, 6 Peters,
506; New Orleans v. United States, 10 Peters, 718. And
raore particularly is it so if the community are allowed to begin to occupy the streets accordingly. Cincinnati v. White,
6 Peters, 431; 10 Peters, 718. But a mere survey of such
streets, without selling the contiguous lots or letting the
streets be occupied, is not enough. 7 Howard, 196.
It is not pretended that in any way has such consent been
given here, except by the acts before referred to, and done under the explanatory circumstances accompanying them. Thus,
though there is much evidence, that, from the warehouse eastward to the river ind wharf, the land has been open or uninclosed for twenty or thirty years, and that people and carriages
have usually travelled over it in going to and from the warehouse and wharf, yet during that time, till the sale of the warehouse to the plaintiffs, that and the open space and wharf have
all been owned by one peison, and he has used them in any
manner deemed by him most proper.
On that sale the titles to each became vested in different
persons, and this controversy arose about the use of .the
open space from the warehouse to the wharf, an undivided
share in which space and wharf remained in the respondent,
and none of it eo nomine was conveyed to the plaintiffs. -If
any private right or privilege to use any part of it for any purpose passed to the plaintiffs, it must have been under the word
"appurtenances," in their deed from Irwin of the warehouse
and its appurtenances.
But as the construction of the deed in that respect, and of
the facts, as showing any privilege used here by the owners of

32

SU-PREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et aL

the werehouse as belonging to the warehouse, rather than to
their interests in the open space and wharf as separate property,
cannot be now properly under consideration, as before explained,
in a private application for perpetual injunction dgainst an alleged nuisance, when the damage is not great nor clearly irreparable, and the right or title to erect it is still in controversy,
we do not examine and decide on the merits, as to any private
interests supposed to be obtained by that deed. And the
question recurs on the other and chief ground for the application and decree,- the existence of a public highway where
the fence was erected.
.The idea of a clear intent to dedicate the locus in quo for
that purpose, which we have seen is necessary to sustain it by
dedication, is further repelled, as. before in part suggested, by
the very circumstances, that this space while open and thus
used was designed for the owner's purposes, rather than for the
purposes of others-; that it was while the owner of the open
space and wharf was the owner of the warehouse also, and had
a right to use both for himself; and that, the moment the new
owner of the warehouse ceased to have a title to the soil itself
in the open space pnd wharf, the right to use them freely,
either by him or the public, was questioned and resisted. Besides this, the space, being open for many years, was.manifestly
convenient, if not necessary,- for the accommodation and interests of the owners of all this property, the wharf without this
open space being hardly susceptible of any profitable use, and
the warehouse not so accessible.
While, then, any body might be allowed to travel over this
space from the warehouse east to the wharf and river, when
convenient and not injuring the owner, it would not be because it had been intended to give to the public a right of way
over these premises, but because he himself intended to travel
over it, and while so doing, and so leaving it open, would not
be captious in preventing others from travelling there.
This was not meant to give to others any exclusive rights or
privileges there, but merely a favor in subordination to him
and his rights, as will be clear from various other circumstances
during the twenty or thirty years.
As proof of this, he and his father, before the sale, were accustomed to use this open space for other private purposes, such
as piling wood and lumber, anchors, tobacco, &c., as well as
for a passage to and from their wharf; they uniformly continued to pay taxes on it, as if entirely private property and not
given to any public use, and the city continued to assess taxes
on it to thkrm as owners, rather than refraining to do it, as

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

33

Irwin v. Dixion et aL

in case of highways generally; they made repairs on it when
needed, as if open for their own use and advantage, instead of
its being repaired by the city, as was done with public highways; and they required persons to remove themselves, horses,
and carriages from it, when causing damftge or giving offence,
and stating at the time virtually that no public privileges existed there.
As soon, likewise, as William Irwin had no further occasion
to keep open the western'portion of this open space for his own.
use and benefit, as owner of the warehouse, he fenced it up.
Circumstances like these seem entirely inconsistent with the
idea that any intended dedication had been made of these
premises, or the use of them, to the public. The effect of these
circumstances is to undermine and destroy also the other
ground set up by the bill, as "well as the decree below, that a
public highway had been established there, not by dedication,
but by over thirty years' use of the land for that purpose by the
community.
In order to have a use or occupation accomplish this, it
must have been adverse to thi owner, (3 Kent's Com. 444),
whereas this was by his consent. It must, also, have been an
exclusive use by the public, whereas this was in common with
him for travel, and entirely in him for several purposes of a
private character. It must have been, also, acquiesced in by
the owner, and not contested and denied, as here. .(Nichols v.
Aylor, 7 Leigh, 547.) It should likewise, in that event, have
been treated by the public authorities as a highway in connection with the user and occupation, so as to give notice it was
meant to be so claimed; whereas this was not repaired by the
city, nor left untaxed to the owner, as in other cases of public
roads.
From the very nature of wharf property, likewise, the access
must be kept open for convenience of the owner and his customers; but no one ever supposed that the property thereby
became public instead of private, and especially under such numerous and decisive circumstances as existed here rebutting
such an inference.
No length of time, during which property is so used, can deprive an owner of his title, nor give to the community a right
to enjoin or abate the owner's fences over it as a nuisance, on
the ground that they have acquired a legal easement in it.
Finally, it is to be recollected that an injunction is what is
termed a transcendent or extraordinary power, and is therefore
to be used sparingly, and only in a clear and plain case. Rosser
v. Randolph, 7 Porter, 238, 245; 3 Johns. Ch. 48 (semble); 3

34

SUPREME COURT
Walden et al. v. Bodley's Heirs et al.

Mylne & Keen, 180, 181; Bigelow v. Hartf. Bridge Co., 14
Conn. 580.
The decree below cannot, under these views, be sustained,
on any of the groutids which have been urged in. its support.
It must, therefore, be reversed, and the case remanded, with instructions that the bill should be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on tht transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs ; and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, rem~nded, with instructions to dismiss the bill
of complaint, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

RICHAID WALDEN AND OTHERS, HEIRS AND REPRESENTATIVES OF
AMIlBROSE WALDEN, DECEASED, .APPELLANTS, v. THOmAS BODLEY'S
HEIRS AND REPRESENTATIVES, ROBERT PoGum's HEIRS AND RErEESENTATIVES, AND OTHERS.
SAME v. SAME.
This court having sent a mandate to a Circuit Court to put a party into possession
of certain lands which were the'subject of an ejectment suit, it was right in the
Circuit Court not to extend the possession further than the land originally recovered in ejectmenti although other lands were afterwards drawn into the controversy.
Where a defendant in ejectment aliens the property in dispute whilst the proceedings
are pending, a possession by the vendee will not justify a plea of the statute of
limitations, This court having issued an order, after the expiration of the demise,
that the Circuit Court should place the plaintiff in possession, such an order proceeded on principles governing a court of equity, and the Circuit Court was
uounr1 to conform to it.
THESE two cases were brought up by appeal, from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky.
The canes were exceedingly complicated, and cannot be understood without a reference to the following plat.

