JANUARY TERM, 1850.

127

The United States v. Reynes.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH REY, ES.
The act of Congress of IlMay 26, 1824 (4 Stat. at Large, 52), for enabling claimants
to lands within the limits of the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas to
institute proceedings to try the validity of their titles, and which was revived by
the act of Jane 17th, 1844 (5 Stat. at Large, 676), did not embrace within its
operation complete or perfect titles to land.
Itapplied to incomplete titles only, derived either from Spanish, French, or British
grants, and of these provided for such only as had been legally issued by a competent authority, and were protected by.treaty.
The act, as revived and reenacted as aforesaid, was not designed to ilivest the holders of imperfect titles with new or additional rights, but merely to provide a remedy
by which legal, just, and oadfte claims might be established.
The treaty of St. Ildefonso, between Spain and the French Republic, anu 4nat of
Paris, between France and the United States, should be construed as binding on the
parties thereto, from the respective dates of those treaties.
Upon no plausible pretext could it be denied that the treaty of St. Ildefonso was
obligatory upon Spain from the period of her acceptance of the provision made for
the Duke of Parma, in pursuance of that treaty, viz. on the 21st of March, 1801, or
from the date at which she ordered the surrender of the Province of Louisiana to
France, viz. on the 15th of October, 1802.
A grant by Morales, the Spanish governor, issued on the 2d of January, 1804, for
lands included within the limits of Louisiana, was void; Spain having parted with
her title to that Province to France, by the treaty of St. Ildefonso, on the 1st of
October, 1800; and France having ceded the same Province to the United States
by the treaty of Paris of the 30th of September, 1803.
Such a grant could not be protected by that article of the treaty of Paris which
stipulated for the protection of the people of Louisiana in the free enjoyment of
tkeir liberty and property; the term property,in any correct acceptation, being applicable only to possessions or rights founded in justice and good faith, and based
upon authority competent to their creation.
The circumstance, that the Spanish authorities retained possession of portions of
Louisiana till the year 1810, did not authorize the issuing of grants for land by
those authorities, upon the ground that they constituted-a government de facto,
Spain having long previously ceded away her right of sovereignty, and her possession sAbsequently thereto having been ever treated by the United States as
wron,.dl, viz. after October, 1800.
The decisions of this court in the cases of Foster and leilson, and Garcia and Lee,
sustaining the construction of the political department of the government upon the
question of the limits of Louisiana, reviewed and confirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the Unitel
States for the District of Louisiana.

On the 10th of December, 1803, the following certificate of
survey was issued: "I, Don Yincente Sebastian Pintado, captain of militia cavlry and deputy surveyor of this Province, do hereby certify, that
there has been measured and the boundaries marked of a tract

of land for Dort Jos6 Reynes, containing 40,000 superficial arpents, measured by the perch of the city of Paris, of 18 feet of
said city, calculating 100 superficial perches to the arpent, according to the agrarian custom of this Province, which tract is
situated 4 miles to the south of the boundary-line between the

domains of his Majesty and the United States of America,

128

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Roynes.

bounded on the north by lands belonging to Don Jame Jorda,
Don Manuel de Sanzos, ad on all the other sides by vacant
lands, the River CQmite, and a branch of said river, commonly
called Canaveral Creek, passing' in the centre of said tract, all
of which are clearly described in the preceding plan signed by
me, in which plan said tract is represented with the dimensions
of its boundaries in lineal perches of Paris, the directions of the
boundaries by the compass, the declination or variation of
which is in the direction northeast, the trees and mounds intended as landmarks, and all other natural and artificial limits.
The said 40,000 arpents were bought by the interested party
from the royal treasury, and were ordered* to be measured and
appraised by a decree of the General Intendancy of this Province, under date of the 1st of September last, sent to Carlos de
Grandpr6, colonel of the royal armies, civil and military governor of the post of Baton Rouge and of its dependencies, and
sub-delegate of the General Intendancy, who notified me of
said decree, and of its contents.
"And said Excellency, the governor and sub-delegate, having appointed Don Pedro Allen and Don Felix Bernardo Damontier appraisers on behalf of the government, and the agent
of the party, Don Antonio Gras, having named Don Philipe
Hickey and Don Bernardo Dubrocar, said gentlemen being assisted by two witnesses, to wit, Don Thomas Valentin Dalton
and Juan Poret, appraised the aforesaid tract at the price and
sum of six thousand dollars, or at the rate of fifteen cents per
siperficial arpent; the agent of the party, being informed of
said appraisement, consented and approved it, receiving said
tract as purchased, acknowledging the delivery thereof; and,
with the appraisers and witnesses, signed these presents in
Baton Rouge, on the 19th day of the month of November, of
the year 1803.
(Signed,)
ANTONIO GRAsS,
VINCENTE SEBASTIAN PINTADO,
PEDRO ALLEN,
FELIX BERNARDO DmONTIER,
PHILIP HIOKEY,
BERNARDo DUBROCAR,
VN. DALTON,
JUAN PORET.

"The foregoing plan and explanations, or description, have
been registered, in the office of general measuration, in book
D, No. 4, folio 84, and the plan numbering 1672.
" 10 December, 1803. Signed by me as Surveyor-General.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

129

The United States v. Reynes.

"I certify that the foregoing is a correct copy of the original
filed with the documents of the case, and I give the present in
virtue of a decree from the Intendant-General dated 6th of the
present month of December, dated as above.
(Signed,)
Or.os TRuDEAu,
SSurv ior-General."
-

On the 2d of January, 1804, the following grant was
made : "Don Juan Ventura Morales (contador de exercito), comptroller for the army, intendant and superintendent pro temyore
of the Province of West Florida, minister commissioned with
the adjustment and final settlement of the affairs of the royal
hacienda (domains) in the Province of Louisiana. Whereas
Don Jos6 Reynes, an inhabitant and merchant of this city, has
presented himself before this tribunal, soliciting to purchase
from the royal treasury 40,000 superficial arpents of land, of
those vacant and belonging to the crown, the value of which
he offers to pay, under appraisement, in letters of credit, issued
by the department of the royal treasury, I ordered, in consequence of said demand, that a certified, copy should bd furnished by the secretary of the official letter addressed by this
intendancy to the commissioners appointed for the transfer of
this Province, on the subject of a petition presented by Don
Thomas Urquhart, and of the answer made by said commissioners; and that these be submitted to the Sen'r Fiscal (solicitor of the crown). Those formalities having been fulfilled,
and no opposition being made to said petition from the answer
given by said Sen'r Fiscal, whose opinion was favorable thereto, and who recommended that an order be issued to Colpnel
Carlos de Grandpr6, governor and sub-delegate of the royal
treasury in Baton Rouge, to appoint two citizens of experience,
who in the character of appraisers, with two others whom the
purchaser shall designate, and two assistant witnesses, should
proceed to the appraisement, survey, and mark the limits
of the 40,000 arpents of land, and make a return of the proceedings in order to carry out the object contemplated. I
further ordered to be furnished a certified copy of the order
under which the Auditor of War was consulted on the proceedings had in the case of the aforesaid Urquhart, with regard to
a similar application, and of the opinion which he (the Auditor
of War) expressed; and, this having been done, I approved the
same, directing an order to be sent to the said governor and
sub-delegate of the royar treasury, as recommended by the
Sen'r Fiscal, and-for the purposes which he determined, which

130

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

was accordingly done; and, in virtue of said order, the operations of survey were performed, and forthwith were measured,
surveyed, the limits defined, and marked with stakes, of the
40,000 superficial arpents of land solicited by Don Jos6 Reynes;
all of which land is in one body or tract, situated in the district of Baton Rouge, and in thd spot which -will be named
hereafter, with a description of the boundaries, by the compass,
and situation. This tract of land was valued at $ 6,000, or at
the rate of 15 cents per superficial arpent; which appraisement
I ordered to be submitted to the Sen'r Fiscal, who approved it,
and decided that, on payment being made by Don Jos6 Reynes
in the royal coffers of said sum of $ 6,000, the same being the
value of the land, say 40,000 superficial arpents, according to
the figurative plan, also the payment of the duty of media
anata (half-yearly tribute), and 1S per cent. for the transportation of this tribute to the kingdom of Castilla, a title of property should be given to him. That, agreeably and in conformity with this order of the Sen'r Fiscal, I ordered that the
Surveyor-General, Don Carlos Trudeau, should examine the
operations, or proceedings of survey, mpide by Don' Vincente
Pintado; and, if he found them correct, that he should record
in his books the plan representing the 40,000 arpents of land
solicited by the aforesaid Reynes, and furnish a copy of said
plan to accomrriany the title. That, these formalities baying
been complied with, I approved, by an act bearing date of 19th
of December last, the valuation made of said 40,000 superficial
arpents, and ordered that the documents should be sent to the
minister of the royal treasury for a liquidation of the value of
the land; and, on its being shown -that the amount due to the
royal treasury had bedn entirely paid in the royal coffers, in
certificates of credit, as proposed by said Don Jos6 Reynes, also
with the sum for the (media anata) half-yearly tribute to the
king, and for its transportation to Spain, that then a title of
property, in due form, should be given to the party. From the
receipt of payment given by the ministry of the royal treasury,
bearing date 31st of December last, which receipt is with the
proceedings to which I refer, it appears that the said Don Jos6
Reynes did pay in the royal coffers 49,416 reales (bits) of silver: 48,000 for the price of the land, at 15 cents per arpent,
and the balance, 1,416 reales, for the 21 per cent. for the halfyearly tribute, and 18 per cent. for the transportation of tribute
to Spain; in consequence of which, and it being evident, from
the plan and proceedings of survey furnished by'the SurveyorGeneral, Don Carlos Trudeau, bearing No. 1,672, that the said
40,000 superficial arpents are situated in the district of Baton

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

131

The United States v. Reynes.

Rouge, at four miles and one third south of the boundary-line
between the domains of his Catholic Majesty and the United
States of America, bounded on the north by lands belonginig
to Jayme Jorda, a captain of the army, and those of an officer
of the same grade, Don Manuel de Sanzos; and on the other
sides by vacant lands, the River Comite passing through the
centre of the said 40,000 arpents, which are also intersected by
a branch of said river commonly called the Canaveral.
"Therefore, and agreeably to the power delegated to me, I.
do hereby grant, under title of sale, to the above-named Don
Jos6 Reynes, the 40,000 superficial arpents of land which he
petitioned for, in the spot, and within the district of Baton
Rouge, where they have at his instance been measured, bounded, and surveyed, under the aforesaid limits, as represented by
the plan and measurement above cited; all of which, for the
better understanding of what is here set forth, as well as the
directions, distances, and localities, shall be annexed to this
title; and I impart to him (Don Jos6 Reynes) entire and clear
dominion over said 40,000 arpents of land, that as his own
lands, from having purchased and paid for them to the royal
treasury, he may possess, cultivate, and dispose of them at his
pleasure; and I do authorize him to take possession of them;
in which possession I do hereby place him, without prejudice to
any third person who might have a better right.
In'testimony whereof, I have ordered these presents to be
delivered under my signature, sealed with my coat of arms, and
countersigned by the undersigned, notary of the royal treasury, who, as well as the principal comptroller, will register this
act.
"Given in New Orleans, on the 2d day of January, 1804.
(Signed,)
JuAN VENTURA MORALES.
"By order of the Sen'r Intendant.
C AM os XIMENES.
"The above title has been registered in folio 37 to 40 of the
book under my charge destined to that effect, and for titles of
said class.
(Signed,)
C&.LOS XmENEs.
"Registered in the office of the principal comptroller for the
army, and also in the office of the royal treasury, (both of
-which are under our charge,) at page 38 of the book destined
to that effect and purpose.
(Signed,)

GILBERTO LEoNARD.
MANUEL ARxIRES."

On the 26th of May, 1824, Congress passed an act (4 Stat. at
Large, 52), from which the following are extracts.

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

The first section declares, - " That it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, or their legal representatives,
claiming lands, tenements, or hereditaments in that part of the
late Province of Louisiana which is now included within the
State of Missouri, by virtue of any French or Spanish grant,
concession, warrant, or order of survey, legally made, granted,
or issued, before the 10th day of March, 1804, by the proper
authorities, to any person or persons resident in the Province at
the date thereof, or on or before the 10th day of March, 1804,
and which was protected or secured by the treaty between the
United States of America and the French Republic, of the 30th
day of April, 1803, and which might have been perfected into
a complete title under and in conformity to the laws, usages,
and customs of the government under which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of the country been transferred to
the United States," to present a petition to the District Court
of Mssouri, setting forth their claim, and praying that the validity of such title of claim might be inquired into and decided
by the said court. The United States were to put in their answer by the District Attorney, and the proceedings in the cause
were to be conducted according to the rules of a court of
equity.
By the second section it is enacted: - " And the said court
shall have full power and authority to hear and determine all
questions arising in said cause relative to the title of th6 claimants; the extent, locality, and boundaries of the said claim, or
other matters connected therewith fit and proper to be heard
and determined; and by a final decree to settle and determine
the question of the validity of the title, according to the law
of nations; the stipulations of any treaty, and proceedings under the same; the severdl acts. of Congress in relation thereto;
and the laws and ordinances of the government from which it
is alleged to have been derived; and all other questions properly arising between the claimants and the United States."
The act of 17th June, 1844 (5 Stat. at Large, 676), entitled
"An act to provide for the adjustment of land claims within
the States of Missouri, Arkansas, and Louisiana, and in those
parts of the States of Mississippi* and Alabama south of the
thirty-first degree of north latitude, and between the Mississippi
and Perdido Rivers," revived and re6nacted so much of the act
of 26th May, 1824, entitled "An act to enable claimants to
land within the State of Missouri and Territory of Arkansas to
institute proceedings to try the validity of their claims," so far
as the same related to the State of. Missouri, and 'extended the
same to the States of Louisiana and Arkansas, and to so much

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

133

The United States v. Reynes.

of the States of Mississippi and Alabama as is above described,
"in the same way, and with the same rights, powers, and jurisdictions, to every extent they can be rendered applicable, as
if these States had been enumerated in the original act hereby
revived, and the enactments expressly applied to them as to the
State of Missouri; and the District Court, and the judges thereof, in each of these ftates, shall have and exercise the like jurisdiction over the land claims in their respective States and
districts, originating with either the Spanish, Frehch, or British
authorities, as by said'act was given to the court and the judge
thereof in the State of Missouri."
The treaty of cession by Spain to France is dated 1st October, 1800, and its terms will be found stated in the treaty of
cession by France to the United States, dated 30th April, 1803
(8 Stat. at Lakge, 200), The act of delivery by Spain to
France took place on the 30th of November, 1803, and by
France to the United States on the 20th of December, i803.
State Papers, Foreign Relations, Vol. -I., page 582 et seq.
On the 13th of March, 1846, Reynes filed the following petition :"To the Honorable the District Court of the United States in
and for the District of Louisiana.
"The petition of Joseph Reynes, who resides in the city of
New. Orleans, respectfully represents:
"That by inheritance, being the sole heir of his father, Joseph Reynes, riow deceased, he is the owner of forty thousand
arpents of land, situated in what was formerly called, under the
government of the king of Spain, the ditrict of Baton Rouge,
four miles and one third south of the boundary-line between
the then territory of the king of Spain and the territory of the
United States of America, being bounded on the north by honds
the property of James Jorda, and by property of Manuel de
Safizos, and on the other sides by vacant lands; as will more
fully appear by an authentic copy of the original act of sale and
grant, by Juan Ventura Morales, commissary of the army, intendant and superintendent ad interim for the Province of West
Florida, minister charged with the final settlement of all affairs
relating to the royal treasury of the king of Spain in Louisiana,
to the said Joseph Reynes, deceased, and to the documents,
plans, and surveys appended to the same; all of which are authentic, and are referred to and made a part of this petition.
"Petitioner further alleges, that said land is believed to be
situated in the parishes of East Feliciana and St. Helena, according to the present territorial divisions of this State.
VOL. Ix.
12

134

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

("Petitioner alleges, that his said father acquired the said land
by purchase and grant from said Juan Ventura Morales, the
duly authorized officer and agent of the government of Spain,
the sovereignty over the territory in which the said land is situated at the time of the aforesaid purchase and grant. That
said Morales had full authority from the government of Spain
to sell the said land, and to grant a good and perfect title
thereto.
"1All of which more fully appears from the annexed documents, and also from the original grant from Morales, which has
been mutilated by robbers, who entered and robbed the dwelling-house of the petitioner. The said original act in the form
in which it now exists is hereunto annexed, together with the
plan of the original survey.
"Petitioner alleges, that the survey was made and returned
by the duly authorized officers of the government of Spain, on
the 19th day of November, A. D. 1803, and that on the 31st
day of December, A. D. 1803, the money was paid by his said
father to the government of Spain for the land; and that the
above-mentioned grant was made to his father on the 2d day
of January, A. D. 1804.
"That at the date of the said sale and grant to his father, he
was a resident of the Province of Louisiana. That the said
grant was protected by the treaty between the United States
and the French Republic of the 30th day of April, 1803. And
that said grant might have been perfected into a complete title
under and in conformity to the laws, usages, and customs of
the government of Spain, had not the sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United States.
"Petitioner further alleges, that the said grant did convey to
his said'father a full and complete title to the said land, under
the laws, customs, and usages of the government of Spain.
"Petitioner alleges, that his claim to the above-mentioned
land was presented to the commissioner of the United States
for confirmation, and the same was refused, as will be more
fully seen by reference to the report of James 0. Cosby, the
said commissioner, to be found in the 18th volume of the
American State Papers, at pages 59 and 66.
"That the United States government has refused, and still
refuses, to recognize and confirm, the said claim, and has asserted a claim to the same. And that various persons have
pretended to set up claims to said land adverse to tie rights of
the petitioner, to wit, the following persons : L. Saunders, M.
Harris, H. Hardesty, Ira Bowman, John Morgan, Josiah Benton, Z. S. Lyons, and Henry Hawford.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

135

The United States v. Reynes.

"Wherefore petitioner prays, that the District Attorney of
the United States, in behalf of the United States, and the said
L. Saunders, M. Harris, H. Hardesty, Ira Bowman, John Morgan, Josiah Benton, Z. S. Lyons,-and Henry Hawford, be cited
to answer this petition, and that, after all due proceedings had.
the validity of petitioner's claim be inquired into, and that he
be decreed to be the true and lawful owner of the said forty
thousand arpents of land. And that for so much of said land
as shall be ascertained to have been sold by the United States,
the petitioner shall be allowed a like quantity of the public
lands belonging to the government of the United States, as
provided for by law, and for all other relief in the premises,
&c., &c.
(Signed,)

ELMORE & KING,

Solicitorsfor Complainant.
"Joseph Reynes, being duly sworn, deposeth that the allegations of the above petition are true.
(Signed,)
REYNES.
"Sworn to and subscribed before me, this 13th of March,
1846.
(Signed,)
L. E. SimoNDs, Deputy Clerk."
Annexed to this petition were the above-recited certificates
of survey and grant.
In June, 1846, sundry witnesses were examined on behalf
of the petitioner, for the purpose of verifying the signatures,
&c.
The District Attorney appeared on behalf of the United
States, and traversed the petition. The other defendants allowed judgment to go against them by default.
On the 3d of November, 1846, the court pronounced the following decree :"The court having heretofore tak6n this case under con-.
sideration, and having maturely considered the same, doth now
order, adjudge, and decree, that the petitioner recover the land
claimed in his petition, and described in the survey of Pintado,
revised by Trudeau, appended thereto; and if it should happen*
that any portion of said land has been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States, it is ordered1 that for such portions the petitioner have the right to enter other lands belonging to the United States, at any land office in Louisiana, according to the provisions of the eleventh section of the act of
1824. And it appearing by reference to the order of this court,
dated the 17th day of June, 1846, that petitioner's petition has

1S6

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

been heretofore taken pro confesso, against L. Saunders, Mi.
Harris, H. Hardesty, Ira Bowman, John Morgan, Josiah Benton, Z. S. Lyons, and Henry Hawford, and the said defendants not 'having entered their names to the said petition, or
taken any steps to set aside the said order taking the petition
pro confesso, it is further ordered and decreed that the petitioner recover the above-described -land from the said defendants,
unless the portions they may claim shall have been sold to
them by the governrnent of the United States, or otherwise
disposed of by the said government to the said defendants;
in which event the petitioner is to obtain relief in the manner
above pointed out, where the government of the United States
have sold or otherwise disposed of any portion of the land he
claims.
"Judgment rendered November 3d, 1846; judgment signed
November 12th, 1846.
(Signed,)
THEo. H. McCALnB, U. S. Jirdge."
From this decree the Uaited States appealed to this court.
The cause was argued for the appellants by Mr. Johnson
(Attorney-General), and by Messrs. Brent and A"aY, for the
appellee.
Mr. Johnson made the following points.
I. That the land in controversy, being within the limits of
the territory ceded to the United States by France by the
treaty of 30th of April, 1803, Spain had no authority to dispose of it, her title having passed'to France by the treaty of
St. Ildefonso of the 1st October, 1800, and, consequently, the
grant in this case is void. Foster and Elain v. Neilson, 2 Pet.
253 ; Lee v. Garcia, 12 Pet. 511; and the 18th volume of State
Papers.
II. That the act of Congress of the 26th March, 1804, section 14, having declared null, void, and of no effect, all grants
made within said territory after the 1st of October, 1800, the
act of 1844, extending the act of 1824 to said territory, is to be
construed, among other things, with reference to said act, and
is not to be considered as giving validity to any grants made
after that date.
Mr. Johnson then gave a history of the country between the
Mississippi and Perdido Rivers. The executive and legislative
departmezts of the government always asserted that it passed
to the United States under the Louisiana treaty, because Spain
ceded Louisiana to France with the same limits which bounded
the Province when France formerly possessed it, which limits

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

137

The United States v. Reynes.

included the country in question. He referred to the correspondence between our ministers and M. Cevallos, the Minister
of Foreign Relations of Spain, in "State Papers," Foreign Relations, Vol. IL pp. 629 to 660. Spain said this country did
not belong to us, and retained possession of it until the year
1810. The rest of Louisiana was delivered to us in 1804.
All grants, in order to be valid, must have emanated, after
1803, from the United States; and between 1801 and 1803
from the French government. This court has given this construction to the treaty. In the case of Foster and Elam v.
Neilson, the court had only the American copy of the treaty of
1819 before it, which said that grants of land should be ratified
and confirmed, implying that some act of ratification was to be
done by our government after the treaty. But in the Arredondo case, the Spanish copy was produced, which said that the
grants should remain ratified and confirmed. But this article
only related to the Spanish side of the line, and had no application to what had been our side of the line since 1803. In
Garcia v. Lee, the court confirmed its former decision, except
so far as it was changed by the production of the Spanish copy
of the treaty of 1819. We became proprietors of Louisiana in
October, 1800. Consequently, all subsequent Spanish grants
are void, like the grant now before us. The court below confirmed this grant, upon the ground that the act of Congress of i
1824 imparted validity to it. This is the only question now
to be argued; all the rest is settled law.
(11ir. Johnson then referred to and examined all the laws of
Congress between 1804 and 1824, to show that they all considered such grants void.) The act of 1824 does not recognize
such a grant as valid. The claimant must show that the grant
under whicli he claims was legally made, which it was not;
and he must show, also, that the inchoate would have ripened
into a perfect title under the Spanish laws, which the present
grant could not have done. He must show that the grant was
protected by our treaty with France. But the date of the
grant here is subsequent to the treaty, and to confirm it we
should have to recognize Spain as the sovereign of the country.
The only grants embraced within the act of 1824 are those
made by Spain before 1800, or by France between 1800 and
1803. The act of 1844 did not go as far as that of 1824, because it only revived so much of it as was applicable. The
state of the question was well known then, and Congress could
not have intended to undo what they had been doing ever
since 1804, when they declared all such grants void.
12 *

138

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

Messrs. Brent and May, for the appellee, contended,
1. That his title papers (not objected to in the court below)
establish a sufficient title, under the laws'of Spain, to entitle
him to the benefits of the act of 26th May, 1824.
2. That the grant relied on was in itself a complete title
prior to the 10th of March, 1804 ; and if not, then the claim
set up might have been matured into a complete title, had not
the countly been transferred to the United States.
3. That the decree should be affirmed.
The act of '17th June, 1844, ch. 95 (5 Stat. at Large, 676),
revives so much of the act of 26th May, 1824, ch. 173 (4 Stat.
at Large, 52), as relates to the State of Missouri, for'five years,
and applies the law of 1824 to Louisiana, the same as it was
enacted for Missouri.
By the act of 1844, ch. 95, therefore, the court has jurisdiction over land claims, originating with the Spanish, French, or
British authorities, to the same extent that the court had under
the Missouri law.
The act of 1824, oh. 173 (4 Stat. at Large, 52,) allows any
person claiming lands in that part of the late Province of Louisiana which is now included within the State of Missouri, by
virtue of any French or Spanish grant, concession, warrant, or
order of survey, legally made, granted, or issued,- before the
10th of March, 1804, by the proper authorities, to any person,
&c.; resident in the Province of Louisiana at'the date thereof
(meaning the date of the grant, &c.), or on or before the 10th
of March, 1804, (meaning resident in Louisiana on or before
the 10th of March, 1804,) which was protected or secured by
the treaty between the United States of America and the
French Republic, of the 30th April, 1803 and which might
have been perfected into a complete title, under and in conformity to the laws, usages, and customs of the government
under which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of
the country been transferred to the United States. The act
then proceeds t6 direct the manner of instituting suit, &c.
The fact's connected with this very claim will be found fully
reported by the Commissioner in the 18th volume of American
State Papers, (3d vol. on Public Lands,) 59 and 66.
With a view to explain the rights secured by this act of
26th May, 1824, we will briefly examine the cases arising in
this court in regard to Spanish claims; and more particularly,
those decided under this very law.
Foster and Elam v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 254, was a petitory or
possessory. action brought by individuals against a possessor.
(under no special act of Congress), to recover lands lying east

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

139

The United States v. Reynes.

of the Mississippi River and -,est of the Perdido. It was brought
to try the question whether that district of country passed to
the United States under the treaty of Paris, dated 30th April,
1803, and if it did not so pass, then to raise the inquiry whether
the Spanish grants made by Spain while she was de facto sovereign of all that district of country were not protected -by the
eighth article of the treaty of Washington, 22d February,
1819, by which Spain ceded to the United States the two
Floridas.
On both these questions the court decided against the claimants. On the first, because the legislative and executive departments had precluded all inquiry into this purely politi al
question, by asserting our right to the territory under the tr ty
of 1803. (See 2 Peters, 307.) And on the second question,
because the court, although divided on the effect of the eighth
article of that treaty, (see 2 Peters, 313,) fully concurred in
considering that treaty as practically securing no rights to
Spanish claimants, until Congress should legislate for the purpose of executing its guarantees. (2 Peters, 314, 315.) And
inasmuch aq Congress had failed to confirm Spanish titles vest
of the Perdido, therefore no right could be set up at law under
that treaty. (2 Peters, 315.) And the difficulty which in
that case was insurmountable was, that, even if the treaty of
1819 protected the Spanish titles west of the Perdido, yet
Congress had never repealed the fourteenth section of the act
of 1804 (2 Stat. at Large, 287). See 2 Peters, 317.
Now, as our land lies within the disputed territory, it is clear
that we cannot recover unless Congress has, by the act of 1824,
above recited, conferred new rights on the Spanish claimants.
We shall contend that the act of 1824 is not meant to open the
question whether the lands or territory in dispute passed to our
government by the treaty of 1803, but, assuming that they did
so rightfully pass, still to recognize those grants as entitled to
respect, because made by the government de facto. And surely nothing could be more inequitable than for our government
to repudiate grants made by Spain while in btctual possession
of the territory, with a claim to hold it rightfully.
Hence the act of 1824, 2, enacts that the final decree shal]
"settle and determine the question of the validity of the title
according to the law of nations, the stipulations of any treaty
and proceedings under the same, the several acts of Congress.
in relation thereto, and the laws and ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to have been derived, and all
other questions properly arising between the claimants and
United States "

140

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

According to the law of nations, and regarding it alone as
the basis of the decree, the grants of a government de facto
are valid. In support of this position, we refer to State of
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Peters, 748 ; 12 Wheat. 535 ;
8 Wheat. 509; 6 Peters, 712, 734; 10 Peters, 330; Ibid. 718;
8 Peters, 445; 9 Peters, 139 ; 5 Rob. Adm. Rep. 113; 1 Kent's
Com. 177.
It will be seen by reference to history, and to the decision
of this court, that the formal surrender to the United States
was not made until the 20th of December, 1803, and that in
fact the United States did not take possession until some time
Elam v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 303.
after.
. That Foster
Spain and
was in possession of this teiritory in 1804 and
later, and issued grants thereof, was recognized in Keene v.
McDonough, 8 Peters, 310; Pollard's Heirs v. Kibbe, 14 Peters,
364. So that here was a de facto sovereignty certainly until
the 20th of December, 1803.
On the 19th of November, 1803, the Spanish surveyor had
returned the certificate of his location of the lands of Reynes,
giving the boundaries and returning the appraisement or price
to be paid, and certifying the delivery to the purchaser.
This alone was an inchoate title prior to a surrender of possession br Spain, which would per se entitle us to recover, as it
recites an order of survey and is based on such order, because
the order alone would be sufficient if it could be matured to a
complete title under the Spanish laws as to the extent to
which inchoate rights are protected. See Mitchell v. U. States,
9 Pet. 711; Chouteau's Heirs v. U. States, 9 Pet. 145; Barry
v. Gamble, 3 How. 32.
But it will be observed that the act of 26th May, 1824,
equally respects titles which have been completed under the
prior to the 10th of.March, 1804.
Spanish
authorities,
. Congress
have therefore virtually submitted the question to
the conirts, whether a grant like the one to Reynes (which was
eitecuted by Morales, 2d January, 1804) should, on the principles of equity or the law of nations, or the terms of "any treaty
or any act" of Congress, be confirmed and respected.
It does not distinctly appear why Congress fixed the 10th of
-March, 1804, as the limit of inquiry, unless that was the r-,:iod
when possession of Louisiana by the United States was supposed to be consummated. This court have fixed the date of
our possession of Louisiana to be in March, 1804. Chouteau
v. Eckhart, 2 How. 373.
The fourteenth section of the act of 2.6th March, 1804 (2 Stat.
at Large, 287), had annulled all Spanish grants subsequent to

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

141

The United States v. Reynes.

the treaty of St. Ildefonso in 1800, and doubtless Congress
meant, by designating the 10th of March, 1804, as the limit of
inquiry, to admit the equity of all legal grants made by the authorities in possession, and even all inchoate rights originating
prior to thrat day.
It cannot be possible that Congress designed by the act of
26th May, 1824, to submit grants, &c., made by Spain prior to
the. 10th of March, 1804, to the jurisdiction of the courts,
merely to decide that Spain had no title to make such grants.
We therefore regard the act of Congress as virtually admitting
the title of Spain to make these grants up to the 10th of March,
1804. But even if the courts are to decide on the title of
Spain, as well as the validity of the grant under her laws, then
it is clear that the title of a defacto sovereign is sufficient.
Should it be contended that the words, " which was protected
or secured by the treaty between the United States of America
and the French Republic of the 30th April, 1803, and which
might have been perfected into a complete title," &c., are restrictive of the class of claims to be adjudicated on, and designate only such claims as had originated at the date of that
treaty, and exclude such claims as originated after that date
and prior to the 10th of March, 1804, then we submit that
such a construction would reject as idle and unmeaning all that
part of the act which refers to orders of survey, grants, &c.,
made or issued prior to the 10th of March, 1804; for if grants
or titles acquired subsequent to the treaty of 30th April, 1803,
are not protected by its terms, then why designate the 10th of
March, 1804, as the period anterior to which any order of survey, &c., might be considered and decided? Ca,) it be that an
order of survey made prior to th6 10th of March, 1804, is to be
considered merely to be rejected? Such a construction, without reason and in violation of the letter of the law, must be
wholly untenable.
The treaty of Paris, by which the United States acquired
Louisiana from France, will be found in 2 White's New Recopilacion, 196, and bears date on the 30th of April, 1803, by
which it will be seen that France only ceded Louisiana "as
fully and in the same manner " as she had acquired it by the
tirepty of St. Ildefonso. See Art. L
Now, whatever rights were acquired by France, it will be
seen that the act of delivery by Spain only bears date the 30th
of November, 1803, and was not deposited among the archives
until the 28th of December, 1803. 2 White's New Recopilacion, 195, 196.
So that it is clear that France had no actual possession until

142

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

the 30th of November, 1803, nor did she transfer this possession to the United States until the 20th of December, 1803.
2 White's Recopilacion, 226. And even these transfers were
mere paper transfers of possession, which in fact was not consummated until some time afterwards.
Art. 4th of this treaty provides for the sending of a French
commissary thereafter, to deliver possession of Louisiana to the
United States; and Art. 5th shows that the possession was not
designed to be changed, or, in other words, that the treaty was
not to go into effect until the exchange of ratifications. This
exchange of ratifications did not take place until the 21st of
October, 1803, so that rights which were inchoate prior to that
day are secured by the treaty under its guarantees of property
to the citizens. 12 Pet. 299.
If, therefore, the treaty be regarded as speaking from the
exchange of ratificatiqns, then our order of survey was expressly protected, being dated on 1st September, 1803, as recited in
the return of survey and appraisement and delivery. These
recitals are evidence. U. States v. Arredonde, 6 Pet. 729, 731;
U. States v. Clark, 8 Pet. 448. See also this order of survey,
18 American State Papers, 59; 3 Story on Const. ยง 1507;
Rawle on Const. 56, 57; Vattel, %4156, 208.
It will be seen that no objections were taken below to the
petitioner's evidence, or the facts recited therein. Then there
is proof in this cause of an inchoate title expressly protected as
property by the treaty, speaking from the date of its ratification, 21st October, 1803; and if so, the cause is ended.
But if we are wrong in this, then we contend that the third
article of the treaty, which declares that, "in the mean time,
they (the inhabitants) shall be maintained and protected in the
free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and religion," was designed, not only to protect existing grants, but such property as
might, in the mean time, be lawfully acquired, either by purchase from individuals, or the government defacto.
The right to acquire property may be said to be property;
and inasmuch as the United States were not in a condition to
grant the public domain until the 20th of December, 1803, or
after that time, the treaty must be equitably construed as protecting, prospectively, property acquired from Spain, while her
laws were lawfully in force. Otherwise, rights arising under
those laws would be disregarded, while the laws were held
valid, and binding on the inhabitants. In support of these
views we refer to the case of -Delassus v. The United States, 9
Pet. 131; but more earnestly to the case of Smith v. The United States, 10 Pet. 330.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

143

The United State& v. Reynes.

Our grant being signed by Morales, the Governor and Intendant of Louisiana, as proved by Mazureau, and by Bouligny,
there can be no question about his power to make such a grant,
as this court has already decided. 2 How. 374; 4 How. 460.
Also, 6 Pet. 714 and 723, 724, 727.
The case of Arredondo v. The United States, 6 Pet. 691,
was instituted under the sixth section of the act of .23d May,
1828. The sixth section of this law will be found in the note
to 6 Peters, 707; by which it appears that the Arredondo
claim, which contained more land than the commissioners were
authorized to decide on (they being limited to a league square,
6 Pet. 706), depended on this very act of 26th May, 1824,
which was, in such cases, applied to Florida. See 6th section,
recited in 6 Peters, 707, 708. In that case the court say, that the
case, as presented under the act of 1824, assumes a very different aspect (from that of Elam and Foster v. Neilson), -that
the ownership of the land, by the United States or the claimant, is to be considered as a "purely judicial question," and to
be decided "as between man and man." 6 Pet. 710.
And in that very case the court proceeded to confirm the
claim, by regarding -the treaty of cession, not as requiring further legislation to confirm the claims, but as of itself, and by itself, the basis of a valid title.
Next in order is the case of The United States v. Perchman,
7 Peters, which is only material as establishing that the decision in Elam and Foster v. Neilson would have been different if the-Spanish copy of the treaty of 1819 had been before
the court (see 7 Ret. 89); and as being a case in which the
Spanish claim was established substantially under the act of
26th May, 1824, which was applicable to the case. See 7 Pet.
84, 85.
Garcia v. Lee, 12 Pet. 515, was a case not instituted under
any act of Congress, but, like Foster and Elam v. Neilson, involved the right of Spain to grant titles in that part of Louisiana east of the Mississippi River; and it was held, that the
grant, being by Spain in 1806, was to be disregarded, under the
principles of Foster and Elani v. Neilson,
Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 How. 463, considers the confirmation
of a Spanish claim by a Board of Commissioners, or by Congress
directly, or by the District Courts, by force of the act of 1824,
as a location of land, by a law of the United States.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner in the court below, as the heir of Jose
Reynes, claimed under a grant from the government of Spain,

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

forty thousand arpents of land, lying within what was formerly
the district of Baton Rouge, now making portions of the parishes of.East Feliciana and St. Helena in the State of Louisiana. The documents upon which this claim is asserted, so far
as the formalities entering into the creation of a complete title
under the Spanish government are requisite, appear to be regular, and to have been admitted in evidence without exception.
No exception either has been taken to the verity of the signatures and certificates appended to those documents, or to the
truth of the official position of the agents by whom those signatures and certificates have been made. The questions arising upon this record grow out of considerations beyond the
mere facts admitted as above mentioned, considerations involving the powers of the agents, whose acts are relied on, as affected by the treaties, by the political sovereignty, and by the
legislation of the United States.
The petition in this case, if not by its own terms, has, by the
arguments adduced in its support, been rested upon the act of
Congress of May 26, 1824, (reenacted by the act of June 17,
1844, and extended in its operation to claims originating with
either the Spanish, French, or British authorities,) by which
act it seems to be supposed that, beyond the mere permission
therein given to proceed against the United States as defendants'in their own courts, some essential rights in the subjects of
pursuit have been originated or superinduced on behalf of claimants, - rights which but for the law of 1824 could not have
existed. The character of this hypothesis requires particular
examination, as upon its correctness or its fallacy must depend
the fate of this claim, and of every other similarly situated.
Pursuing this theory, it is insisted that the petitioner (the defendant in error here), as the heir of a purchaser for valuable
consideration from the Spanish authorities, and holding the
evidences of a perfect title from those authorities, is now permitted to show that he falls within the class of persons whose
rights have been protected, both by the treaty of St. Ildefonso,
between Spain and France, of the 1st of October, 1800, and by
the treaty of Paris between France and the United States, of
the 30th of April, 1803, and who are specially referred to and
provided for in the act of 1824. In answer to this pretension
of right under the act of 1824, it might perhaps be sufficient to
observe, that, if this right be asserted in virtue of a perfect
Spanish title, it would seem to be comprised neither within
the mischief nor the remedy contemplated -by the statute.
The mischief intended to be provided for by the act of 1824.
was the inchoate or incomplete condition of titles having a fair

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

145

The Unitcd States v. Reynes.

and just and legal inception under either the French or Spanish
governments of Louisiana, but which, by reason of the abdication or superseding of those governments, and by that cause
only, had not been completed. The remedy was the permission to bring such titles before the courts of the United States,
and there to render them complete, and to establish them by
proof of the legality and justice of their origin and character.
Such, then, being the mischief declared, and such the remiedy
provided by the statute, it is difficult to perceive the reason or
the authority for bringing before the courts merely for suprvision titles alleged to be already perfected under the unquestionable and competent authority of either Spain or France.
With regard to titles so derived and so consummated, there is no
provision made by the statute. None could be requisite; and
there could, with reference to such titles, be nothing for the
courts to act upon, nothing which it was competent for them
to consider. Conceding for the present that the title before us
has not been completed, the inquiry presents itself, whether in.
other respects it corresponds with the description of claims authorized by the law to be brought before the courts for completion and establishment. Amongst the requisites demanded for
these titles by the statute are the following. That they shall
be legally granted, by the proper authorities, to persons resident
within the Province of Louisiana at the time, or on or before the
10th day of March, 1804; that they should be such claims as
were protected or secured by the treaty between the United
States and the French Republic of 'the 30th of April, 1803,
and which might have been perfected into complete titles under and in conformity to the laws; usages, and customs of the
government under which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of the country been transferred to the United States.
With regard to the modes of proceeding by which these claims
are to be brought before the courts, the statute next prescribes
that it shall be lZy petition setting forth fully and-plainly the
nature of the claim to the lands, &c., particularly stating the
date of the grant, concession, warrant, or order of survey, un-der which the claim is made, by whom issued, &c.
By the second section of the statute it is enacted, that every
petition which shall be prosecuted under its provisions "shall
be conducted adcording to the rules of a.court of equity, ex-.
cept that the answer of the District Attorney of the United
States shall not be required to be verified by his oath, and the said court shall have full power and a.uthority to hear
and determine all questions arising in said cause, relative to the
title of the claimant, the extent, locality, and boundaries of the
vo L. IxX.
13

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

claim, or other matters connected therewith, fit and proper to
be heard and determined, and by a 'final decree to settle and
determine the question of the validity of the title, according
to the laws of nations, the stipulations of any treaty, and proceedings under the same, the several acts of Congress in relation thereto, and the laws and ordinances of the governments
from which it is alleged to have been derived."
In part compliance with, the act of Congress, the petitioner
alleges, that his father acquired the land claimed (now situated
within the parishes of East Feliciana and St. Helena in the
State of Louisiana) by purchase and grant from Juan Ventura
Morales, the duly authorized officer and agent of the Spanish
government, the then sovereignty over the territory in which
the said land is situated, at the time of the purchase and grant;
and that Morales had full authority from the government of
Spain to sell the said land, and to grant a good and perfect title
thereto. The petitioner goes on to allege, a survey made
and returned by the duly authorized officer of the Spanish government, on the 19th day of November, 1803; payment of
the purchase-money, on the 30th of December, 1803, and the
emanation or issuing of the grant to the father of the petitioner,
on the 2d of January, 1804. In support of the petition there
are made exhibits, the certificates of the deputy and principal
surveyors, Pintado and Trudeau, and the grant from Morales to
the father of the petitioner, for the land in question; these
documents respectively correspond in dates with the allegations
of the petition.
Upon the aforegoing allegations and documents it is insisted
for the defendant in error, that by operation of the acts of
1824 and 1844 already cited, and by virtue lof stipulations in
:the treaties'of St. Ildefonso and of Paris, and by the rules of
the law of nations as applicable to those treaties, his rights to
the land granted by Morales to his father have been protected,
and that the petitioner is entitled thereto, as adjudged to him by
the District Court.
With respect to that' interpretation of the acts of Congress
which would expound them as conferring on applicants new
rights not previously existing, we would remark that such an
interpretation accords neither with the language nor the obvious spirit of those laws; for if we look to the language of the
act of 1824, we find that the grants, surveys, &c., which are
authorized to be brought before the courts, are those only
which had been legally made, granted, or issued, and which
were also protected by treaty. The legal integrity of these
claims (involving necessarily the competency of the authority

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

147

The United States v. Reynes.

which conferred them) was a qualification associated by the
law with that of their being protected by treaty. And as to
the spirit and intention of the law, had it designed to create
new rights, or to enlarge others previously existing, the natural
and obvious means of so doing would have been a direct declaration to that effect; certainly not a provision placing these
alleged rights in an adversary position to the government, to be
vindicated by mere dint of evidence not to be resisted. The
provision of the second section of the act of 1824, declaring that
petitions presented under that act shall "be conducted according to the rules of a court of equity," should be understood
rather as excluding the technicalities of proceedings in courts,
than as in any degree varying the rights of parties litigant; as
designed to prevent delays in adjudicating upon titles, as is
further shown in another part of the same sentence, where it is
declared that these petitions shall be tried without continuance,
unless for cause shown. The limitations, too, maintained as to
the character of claims and that imposed upon the courts in
adjudicating upon them, is further evinced in that part of the
same section which says, that the court shall hear and determine all questions relative to the title of the claimants, the extent, locality, and boundaries of.the claim, and by final decree
shall settle and determine the questions of the validity of the
title, according to the law of nations, the stipulations of any
treaty, and proceedings under the same, the several acts of
Congress, and the laws and ordinances of the government from
which it is alleged to have been derived. In some aspects of
these claims, they were properly to be denominated equitable.
They were to be equitable in the sense that they should not be
inequitable or wrongful, - that they should be rightful, and
founded in justice; and they were necessarily to be equitable in
so far as they were incomplete, and could not therefore be
maintained as perfect legal titles. But in no proper acceptation
could they be called equitable titles, as implying any addition
to their strength or any diminution of the rights of the United
States, as affected by the statute.
We come now to the inquiry, whether the grant in question
was protected either by the treaty of retrocession from Spain to
the French Republic, or. by the treaty of Paris, by which the
Territory of Louisiana was ceded to the United States. The
treaties above mentioned, the public acts and proclamations of
the Spanish and French governments, and those of their pub-,
licly recognized agents, in carrying into effect those treaties,
though not made exhibits in this cause, are historical and
notorious facts, of which the court can take regular judiefal

148

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Reynes.

notice; and reference to which is implied in the investigation
before us.
It is proper in this place again to refer to the date of the certificate of survey on which the grant in question was issued,
and to that of the grant itself. The former purports to have
been given on the 19th day of November, 1803, the latter to
have been issued by Morales on the 2d of January, 1804. The
dates of the treaties of St. Ildefonso and of Paris have already
been mentioned, - that of the former being the 1st of October,
1800, that of the latter the 30th of April, 1803. In the construction of treaties, the same rules which govern other compacts properly apply. They must be considered as binding
from the period of their execution; their operation must be understood to take effect from that period, unless it shall, by some
condition or stipulation in the compact itself, be postponed.
Were it allowable at this day to construe the treaty of St. Ildefenso as not being operative from the signature thereof, its
operation could by no construction be postponed to a period
later than the 21st of March, 1801, at which time, by the treaty
negotiated by Lucien Bonaparte and the Prince of Peace, Spain
accepted from the French Republic the Grand Duchy of Tuscany in full satisfaction of the provision stipulated in favor of
the Duke of Parma: or at the farthest, the government of
Spain must be concluded, as to satisfaction of the stipulation
above mentioned, by the royal order issued at Barcelona on the
15th of October, 1802, announcing from the king to his subjects the retrocession of Louisiana, and giving orders fer the
evacuation of the country by all Spanish authorities, and its
delivery to General Victor, or any other officer authorized by
the French Republic to take possession. In obedience to this
order, formal possession -as on the 30th of November, 1S03,
delivered by Salcedo and Casa Calvo, the Spanish Commissioners, to Laussatt, the Prefect and Commissioner of the French
Republic. The treaty between the United States and the Republic of France contains no article or condition by which its
operation could be suspended. It declares that the Republic,
in pursuance particularly of the *third article of the treaty of St.
Ildefonso, has an incontestable title to the domain and to the
possession of the territory, and cedes it to the United States in
the name of the French Republic for ever, and in full 'sovereignty, with all its rights and appurtenances. this treaty
therefore operated from its date ; its subsequent ratification by
the American government, and the formal transfer of the country to the American Commissioners on the 20th of December,
1803, have relation to the date of the instrument. The rights

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

149

The United States v. Reynes.

and powers of sovereignty, on the part of Spain, over the territory, ceased with her transfer of that sovereignty to another
government; it could not exist in different governments or nations at the same time. The power to preserve the peace and
order of the community ipay be admitted to have been in the
officers previously appointed by Spain, until the actual presence
of the agents of the succeeding government; but this would
not imply sovereign power still remaining in Spain, -for
if
she continued to be sovereign after expressly conceding her
sovereignty to another government, she might still rightfully
resist and control that government; for sovereignty from its
nature is never subordinate. She might, if still sovereign,
notwithstandng her treaty stipulations with France, have ceded
the entire territory to some other nation. That the government of Spain never Supposed that any sovereign authority
was retained by it after the cession to France, is apparent from
the character of the treaty itself, and of the acts of the Spanish
government carrying that treaty into effect. * It is a somewhat
curious fact, that there is not in this treaty a single stipulation
or guarantee in favor of the lives or the property of the subjects
or inhabitants of the ceded country, much less a reservation of
power to grant or invest new rights within that territory. The
same characteristic is observable in the royal order announcing
the cession, and also in the formal act of delivery of the territory. So far from containing any such stipulation or reservation, the language of his Catholic Majesty may correctly be
understood as conveying an acknowledgment that he had made
no condition or stipulation whatever in behalf of his late subjects, and had no power to insist on any thing of the kind; but
had handed them over to the justice or the liberality of the
new government to whon he had transfsrred them. Thus, in
the order of Barcelona, after announcing the cession of the territory, and directing the collection of all the papers and documents relating to the royal treasury, and to the administration
of the colony of Louisiana, in order to bring them to Spain for
the purpose of settling the accounts; and an inventory of all
artillery, arms, ammunition, effects, &c., which belong to him;
and an appraisement of them in order that their value might be
reimbursed him by the French Republic, he uses this language;
-1
Meanwhile, we hope, for the tranquillity of the inhabitants'
of said colony, and we promise ourselves, from the sincere
amity and close alliance which unite us to the government of
the Republic, that the said government will issue orders to the
governor and other officers employed in its service, that the ecclesiastics and religious houses employed in the service of the
13 *

150

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

parishes and missions may continue in the exercise of their
functions, and in the enjoyment of their privileges and exemptions, granted to them by the charters of their establishments.
That the ordinary judges may, together with the established
tribunals, continue to administer justice accdrding to the laws
and customs in force in the colony. That the inhabitants may
be protected in the peaceful possession of their property. That
all grants of property, of whatever denomination, made by my
governors, may be confirmed, although not confirmed by myself. I hope further that the government of the Republic will
give to its new subjects the same proofs of protection and affection which they have experienced under my dominion."
This order from the king is an explicit admission of what
the treaty itself exposes; namely, that no special stipulation
had been made for the protection either of persons or property;
that he regarded his own authority and the dominion of Spain

over the territory as at an end, and that his sole reliance for
the protection and welf ire of his late subjects, and even for
enforcing the grants he !iimself, through his officials, had made
to them, was on the justice and benevolence of the new government. So far as the acts of the king of Spain are to be
considered in connection with the territory and its inhabitants
ceded by him, he appears to have committed both to those
practices and to that discretion which obtain in civilized communities, wholly uninfluenced by any pledge or condition exacted by himself.
The proclamation of the Spanish provincial officers is almost
a literal repetition of this royal order. The treaty of St. Ildefonso; then, can, by no rule or principle deducible from the
laws of nations, be interpreted as still reserving to Spain, after
the sigrlaturb of that treaty, the power to grant away the public domain; for she could have had no right to calculate upon
the mala fides of the French Republic with regard to the provision for the Duke of Parma, and to make such calculation an
excuse for mnala fides on her own part. But surely no right,
under any pretext, to grant the pfiblic domain, could exist in
Spain after the treaty of Aranjuez of March 21st, 1801, between that country and France, by which the Grand Duchy
of Tuscany, that had been previously ceded to the French
Republic, was accepted by Spain in full satisfaction of the provision agreed to be made for the Duke of Parma. And .least
of all could such a power continue in the government of Spain
after the royal order of the 15th of October, 1802, proclaiming
the retrocession of the Territory of Louisiana and the fulfilment
or satisfaction, of course, of all treaty stipulations in reference

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

151

The United States v. Reynes.

to that territory; and all this, too, promulgated under the signature of the king himself.
It may now be properly asked, What, then, are the grants,
titles, or other rights protected by the third article of the treaty
between the United States and the French Republic, of the
30th, April, 1803, and by the acts of Congress of 1824 and 1844,
referring to that treaty, and to previous acts of the Spanish
government ? The third article of the treaty of Paris of 1803 is
in these words: - " The inhabitants of the ceded territory shall
be incorporated in the union of the United States, and admitted
as soon as possible, according to the principles of the Federal
Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages,
and immunities of citizens of the United States; and in the
mean time they shall be maintained and protected in the free
enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the religion which
they profess." The term property in this article will embrace
rights either in possession or in action ; property to which the
title was completed, or that to which the title was not yet
completed; but in either acceptation, it could be applied only
to rights founded in justice and good faith, and based upon
authority competent to their creation. The article above cited
cannot, without the grossest perversion, be made either to express or imply more than this. According to this just and obvious rule of interpretation, the treaty of Paris, of April 30th,
1803, by any reference it could be supposed to have to titles or
claims derived from Spain, could embrace such only as had
their origin whilst Spain was the rightful sovereign over the
territory; a period which, by the most liberal extension of her
power, cannot be carried farther than the 15th of October,
1802, the date of the royal order of Barcelona. Indeed, if not
from the date of the treaty of St. Ildefonso, yet certainly from
the 21st of March, 1801, grants by Spain of the public domain
in Louisiana would have been frauds upon the French Republic, since by the treaty of Aranjuei, of the date last mentioned, full satisfaction of the terms stipulated for the Duke of
Parma was ackndwledged by Spain. Looking more particularly to the documents on which this claim is founded, we find
it recited in the certificate of Pintado, that the land in question
had been surveyed by him in obedience to a decree of the
General Intendancy of the Province, under date of the 1st of
September, 1803. This decree is not produced in evidence,
but, upon the supposition that it was in the record and properly
verified, the question of the competency.of the authority to
order it would stand precisely as it does in its absence. Turning next to the grant itself, there are, in addition to the fact of

152

SUPREME COURT.
The United. States v. Reynes.

the date of that instrument, other circumstances disclosed upon
its face, showing not only the want of luthority in the grantor
to make a good title, but which bring nome to the grantor and
to the individual soliciting the grant full knowledge that the
title to whatever might be properly considered Louisiana, at
least, no longer remained in the Spanish government. The
grant is dated at New Orleans It recites the application of
Reynes for 40,000 arpents of land, to be paid for in letters of
credit formerly issued by the provincial government, and then
goes on to state, that, in consequence of the petition, Morales
had caused a certified copy of the letter addressed by that Intendancy to the Commissioners appointed for the transfer of
the Province of Louisiana, to be submitted, with the petition, to
the Solicitor of the Crown. This document, then, excludes all
doubt as to the knowledge of the parties of the cession to the
United States of Louisiana by whatever might have been its
real boundaries. It is signed by Morales, not as being an officer of the Territory of Louisiana, but as Intendant of the Province of West Florida, after Louisiana had passed to two sovereign states since its possession by Spain, and after actual
possession had been delivered to the United States. It is clear,
then, that the documents exhibited and relied on by the appellee could by their own terms convey no title within the Territory of Louisiana. Superinduced upon our conclusions drawn
from the treaties aboie mentioned, and from the laws of nations applicable to their construction, is the positive legislative
declaration in the act of Congress of March 26, 1804, "pro..
nouncing all grants for lands within the territories ceded by the
French Republic to the United States by the treaty of the 30th
of April, 1803, the title whereof was at the date of the treaty
-f St. Ildefbnso in the crown, government, or nation of Spain,
and every act and proceeding subsequent thereto, of whatsoever nature, towards the obtaining of any grant, title, or claim
to such lands, under whatsoever authority transacted or pretended, be, and the same are hereby declared to be, and to have
been from the beginning, null, void, and of no effect in law or
equity." This act of 1804 explicitly avows the opinion of the
government of the United States as to any power or right iu
Spain at any time after the treaty of St Ildefonso. It covers
the whole subject of grants, concessions, titles, &c., derived
from Spain at any time subsequent to the treaty, stamping
upon all such grants, &c., the most utter reprobation; de4,ying
to them any validity or merit, either legal or equitable. This
act of 1804 has never been directly repealed. It still operates
upon all the grants, concessions, &c., embraced within its pro-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

153

The United States v. Reynes.

visions, except so far as these provisions may be shown to have
been modified by posterior legislation. And it has been invariably held, and indeed must follow as of necessity, that imperfect titles derived from a foreign government can only be perfected by the legislation of the United States. But it is argued
for the appellee, that as the land in dispute did not lie within
the territory of which France obtained from Spain actual occupancy, or of which the United States ever obtained a like occupancy until possession thereof was taken under the proclamation of President Madison, of October 10th, 1810, and as
the Spanish authorities in the mean time, as a government de
facto, retained possession, they could in this character invest
their grantees with inchoate or equitable rights, which, under
the privileges bestowed by the acts of 1824 and 1844, might
be matured into perfect titles as against the United States.
Without stopping to remark upon the caution which should ever
be manifested in the admission of claims which, if not founded
in violence or in mere might, yet refer us for their origin certainly not to regular unquestioned legal or political authority,
it may be safely said, that claims founded upon the acts of a
government de facto must be sustained, if at all, by the nature
and character of such acts themselves, as proceeding from the
exercise of theinherent and rightful powers of an independent
government. They can never be supported upon the authority
of such a govermnent, if shown to have originated in a violation of its own compacts, and in derogation of rights it had expressly conceded to others. Every claim asserted upon wrong,
such as this latter position implies, would be estopped and
overthrown by alleging the compact or concession it sought to
violate. Thus, if Spain, by the treaty of St. Ildefonso, did in
truth cede to France the lands lying between the Mississippi
and Perdido, she could not, as a government dejure or de facto,
without the assent of the United States, possessing all the
rights of the French Republic, make subsequent grants of the
same lands either to communities or to individuals. Her grants
could not be regarded as the inherent, competent, and uncommitted proceedings of an independent government de facto;
they would be met and made null by her own previous acknowledgment.
Whether, by the treaties of St. Ildefonso and of Paris, the
territory south of the thirty first degree of north latitude, and
lying between the Mississippi and Perdido, was ceded to the
United States, is a question into which this court will not now
inquire. The legislative and executive departments of the
government have determined that the entire territory was so

154

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reynes.

ceded. This court have solemnly and repeatedly declared, that
this was a matter peculiarly belonging to the cognizance of
those departments, and that thd propriety of their determination
it was not within the province of the judiciary to contravene
or question. See the cases of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, 2
Peters, 253, and of Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 511. In the former case the court say, - " If a Spanish grantee had obtained
possessipn of the land in dispute, so as to be the defendant,
would a court of the United States maintain his title under a
Spanish grant made subsequent to the acquisition of Louisiana,
singly on the principle that the Spanish construction of the
treaty of St. Ildefonso wai right, and the American construction wrong? Such a decision would subvert those principles
which govern the relations between the legislative and judicial
departments, and mark the limits of each." Substituting the
United States as a defendant in the place of 'a private litigant,
(a privilege permitted by the law of 1824,) the case supposed
and satisfactorily answered in the quotation just made is in all
its features precisely that now before the court; and to sustain
the pretensions of the appellee, it is indispensable that the
American construction of the treaty of St. Ildefonso be rejected,
and the Spahish construction held to be the true one. In the
case of Garcia v. Lee, ibis court say, - " The controversy in
relation to the country betvieen the Mississippi and Perdido
Rivers, and the validity of the grants made by Spain in the
disputed territory after the cession of Louisiana to the United
States, were carefully examined, and decided, in the case of
Poster and Elam v. Neilson. The Supreme Court in that case
decided, that the question of boundary between the United
States and Spain was a question for the political department
of the government ; that the legislative and executive branches
having decided the question, the courts of the United States
are bound to regard the boundary determined by them to be
the true one. That grants made by the Spanish authorities of
lands which, according to this boundary line, belonged to the
United States, gave. no title to the grantees in opposition to
those claiming under the United States." Has the law, as expounded in the cases of Foster and Elam v. Neilson, and of
Garcia v. Lee, been in any respect changed by the act of 1844?
Has that act enlarged thq rights of claimanis under French or
Spanish titles, or restricted the rights of the United States as
derived from the treaties of St. Ildefons o and of Paris? Beyond an extension of the modes of proceeding allowed by the
act of 1824 to claimants in Missouri, to persons claiming under
Spanish, French, or British titles, within the States of Louisi-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

155

La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

ana and Arkansas, and within those portions of the States of
Mississippi ad Alabama lying south of the thirty-first degree
of north latitude, and between the Rivers Mississippi and Perdido, we can perceive no change in the act of 1824 effected by
the act of 1844. We are unable to perceive any addition made
by the latter act to the intrinsic strength of the claims allowed
to be prosecuted, or any dispensation from proofs of their bona
fides, or of a single condition prescribed in relation to their
origin and character by the act of 1824. What are the conditions prescribed by this act as indispensable to the allowance
and establishment of titles derived from France or Spain has
been stated in a previous part of this opinion, and having shown
the title of the appellee to be wanting in all those conditions,
it is the opinion of this court that his petition should have been
rejected,- and' therefore that the judgment of the District Court
pronounced in this cause should be reversed, and the same is
hereby reversed.
Order.
This caiise came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the title of
the petitioner is null and void. Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
District Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the, claimant in this cause.

RENE LA ROCE AND MARY, HIS WIFE, IHEZ 1. ELLIS, STEPHEN
P. ELLIS, AND THOxAS LA ROCHE ELLIS, MINOR HEIRS OF
THoIAS

G.

ELLIS,

DECEASED,

BY

THEIR

GUARDIAN

AD LITEIX,

CHARLES G. DAHLGREN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE LESSEE OF
RICHARD JONES AND WIFE.
After the cession by Georgia to the Uniterl State . in 1802, of all the territory north
of 310 north latitude and west of the Chatahoochee River, Congress passed an act
(2 Stat. at Large, 229) confirming certain titles derived from the British or Spaniqh governments, and appointing commissioners to hear and decide upon such
claims, whose decision was declared to be final.
In 112, another act was pa,,sed (2 Stat. at Large, 765) confirming the titles of those
who were actual resident on the 27th of October, 1795, and whose claims had
been filed with the Register and reported to Congress.

