JANUAR)

TERM, 1850.

297

Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded for such further proceedings as the said Su.prerne Court may deem necessary.

BENJAMIN

G. HU:%IPHREYS,

APPELLANT1
LAWRENCE.

v.

LEGGETT, SMITH, AND

The laws of M3issippi limit the liability of the sureties in the official bond of a
sheriff to the amount of the penalty.
Mhere the surety had been compelled to pay the whole amount of his bond before a
third party recovered judgment, the surety ought to have been relieved against an
excution by this third party.
Not having been allowed to plead puis darreincontinuance, and protect himself in this
way by showing that he had paid the fall amount of his bond, the surety ought to
have been relieved in equity where he bad filed a bill for relief.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi. It arose from a
former case in this court, McNutt v. Bland et al., reported in 2
Howard, 9.
'The facts were these.
On the 6th of November, 1837, Richard J. Bland was elected
sheriff of the County of Claiborne, in the State of Mississippi,
for the term of two years, prescribed in the constitiation of that
State.
On the 10th of November, 1837, Richard J. Bland, Benjamin
G. Humphreys, and John Grissom, all bf that county and State,
exbcuted a penal bond, in the sum of $ 15,000, to Ch4rles
Lynch, Governor 6f the State, conditioned for the faithful execution by Bland of the duties of his office.
On the 30th of December, 1837, a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum was issued, at the suit of Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence, on a judgment obtained by them, as they allege, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for Mississippi, against George
W. McNider, for $ 3,910.78, on the 17th of November, 1837;
and the said writ was placed in the hands of the Marshal of
the United States for Mississippi, who took McNider into custody by virtue thereof, and delivered him for safe-keeping to
Bland, as the sheriff of Claiborne County.
On the 12th of December, 1838, an execution was issued, at
the suit of the Planters' Bank of Mississippi, on a judgment
obtained by the bank in the Circuit Court of Mississippi for,
Claiborne County, against Hoopes, Moore, and Carpenter, for

298

SUPREME COURT.
Humphreys v. Leggctt et al.

$ 10,524.44, on the 4th of December, 1838, and the said execution was placed in the hands of Bland, as the sheriff of
Claiborne County.
On the 21st of January, 1839, an execution was issued, at
the suit of the Planters' Bank of Mississippi, on a judgment
obtained by the bank in the Circuit Court of Mississippi for
Claiborne County, against Campbell, Pierson, and Moore, for
$ 3,718.78 on the 29th of November, 1836, and the said execution was placed in the hands of Bland, as the sheriff of Claiborne County.
On the 28th of March, 1839, a suit was inptituted and declaration filed in the Circuit Court of the United Szates for Mississippi, in the name of Alexander G. McNutt, Governor of the
State of Mississippi, to -the use of Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence, against Bland, Humphreys, and Grissom, to recover
damages for an alleged breach by Bland of his official bond, in
setting McNider at liberty without lawful authority, while their
judgment was in full force against him and unsatisfied.
On the same day a summons, in that suit, was issued against
Bland, Humphreys, and Grissom, to which the marshal made
return, - " Executed on 11. J. 'Bland, personally, on the 5th
April, 1839 "; no return being made as to Humphreys and
Grissom.
On the 20th of June, 1839, an alias summons, in the same
suit, was issued against the same persons, with directions to be
executed on Humphreys and Grissom only, to which the marshal made return, -" 1 Executed this writ on B. G. Humphreys,
personally, on the 14th day of October, 1839; J. Grissom not
found in my district. [Signed] W. M. Gwin, Marshal, per
John Hunter, D. M.."
At November term, 1839, a plea was filed in the names of
the defendants, Bland and Humphreys, in the same suit, denying the plaintiffs right of action, because Leggett, Smith, and
Lawrence had failed to comply, in their proceedings against
McNider, with the act of Mississippi, which required them to
pay or give security for jail fees, and to appoint an agent in the
county of Claiborne to receive notice of matters touching the
execution, in d6fault of which the prisoner was to be discharged; and further, because, after his commitment, he was
regularly discharged therefrom, by a warrant from the judge of
probate, under the insolvent laws of the State of*lMississippi.
At the same term a replication was filed by Leggett, Smith,
and Lawrence, alleging that they had an agent in the County
of Warren ; that no application was made to them for jail fees,
or security therefor; that no notice was given to them of any

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

299

Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

intention or application to discharge McNider; and, further,
that McNider, being in custody under process from the Circuit
Court of the United States, was not legally discharged.
At the same term a demurrer to this replication was filed, in
the names of the defendants.
On the 26th of November,.1839, a discontiniance was ordered, as to the defendant Grissom; the demurrer on behalf of
the other defendants was sustained; and judgment was entered
in their favor, with costs.
On the 28th of November, 1839, a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States was issued by the clerk of
the Circuit Court of Mississippi, at the suit of Leggett, Smith,
and Lawrence.
On the same day a citation, addressed to "Richard Bland
and Benjamin G. Humphreys, or Messrs. Winchester, Black, &
Chaplain, Attorneys of Record," was issued, signed by "S. J.
Gholson," one of the judges of the Circuit Court.
' On the 20th of May, 1840, a motion was made in the Circuit
Court of Claiborne County, Mississippi, on behalf of the Planters' Bank of Mississippi, for a judgment against Bland, as sheriff,
and Humphreys and Grissom, as his securities, on the allegation that Bland had failed to return the execution issued at the
suit of the bank against Hoopes, Moore, and Carpenter, and the
judgment was granted for the sum of $ 11,775, with $ 526.22
damages.
On the 25th of May, 1840, a similar motion was, made in the
same court, on behalf of the same bank, against the same defendants, on the allegation that Bland had failed to return the
execution issued at the suit of the bank against Campbell, Pierson, and Moore, and the judgment was granted against Bland
and Humphreys for $ 2,674.75, "the balance," it was stated,
"of the said official bond" of Bland.
On the 16th of July, 1840, writs of fieri facias, under each
of these judgments, were delivered to the coroner against Bland
and Humphreys; that in the first case being indorsed, "No
security of any kind is to be taken." Under these writs, the
estate, real and personal, of Humphreys was levied upon and
sold; and the sum of $ 15,160.39, the proceeds thereof, was
paid over by the coroner to the Planters' Bank.
On the 11th of December, 1840, the record in the case of
McNutt to the use of Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence, against
Bland and Humphreys, was brought into the Supreme Court
of the United States, from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Mississippi (January term, 1841, No. 43). It consists only of the record of the Circuit Court in the case of Leg-

300

SUPREM.E COURT.
Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

gett; Smith, and Lawrence v. Bland and Humphreys, together
with the writ of error and citation. The citation is indorsed,
"Service on the defendants, accepted, Nov. 28, 1839. Geo.
Winchester, for defendants."
The appearance is general, -for defendants, - " Walker,"
Nothing appears to have been done 4t that term with the case.
At January term, 1842, the case was reached, and ordered to
the foot of the docket.
At January term, 1843, on motion of Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff in error, the codrt granted leave to submit it on printed
arguments.
At January term, 1844, the case was argued.
On the 30th of January, 1844, it was adjudged to be reversed,
with costs, and remanded, with directions to enter judgment
for the plaintiff.
On the 31st of January, 1844, Mr. Jones suggested the death
of R. J. Bland, and moved that the writ of error stand against
the survivor.
On the 12th of March, 1844, it was ordered that the mandate
should direct judgment to be entered against the survivor. See
2 Howard, 28.
1844, a mandate was issued reciting the,
On the 1st of -,
judgment'; and also that, "whereas in the present term of
January, 1844, the death of Richard J. Bland having been suggested, it was ordered by this court that this cause stand against
Benjamin G. Humphreys alone, as the survivor "; on consideration thereof, it was "ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that the said plaintiff
recover against the said defendant, Benjamin G. Humphreys,
$64.85, for his costs therein expended, and have execution
therefor" ; and it was further "ordered and adjudged that this
cause be, 'and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to that court to enter judgmefit for the
plaintiff, against Benjamin G. Humphreys alone, as the survivor."
On the 2d of November, 1844, the mandate of the Supreme
Court having been filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States in Mississippi,. the defendant, Humphreys, asked leave
to file a plea, puis darreinr continuance, in which he set forth
the judgments obtained against him in the Circuit Court of
Claiborne County, on account of the failure of Bland to execute
the writs-in the cases of the Planters' Bank v. Hoopes, Moore,
and Carpenter, and the Planters' 0Bank v. Campbell, Pierson,
and Moore; and his own payinent thereof, to the full amount

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

301

Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

of his bond, as surety for Bland under executions issued by
virtue of those judgments. The court, however, refused to admit the plea, on the ground that it was not competent for it to
do any thing in that action but obey the mandate of the Supreme Court.
On the 17th of May, 1845, Humphreys filed a bill in equity,
in the Circuit Court of the United States in Mississippi, against
Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence, exhibiting the foregoing facts;
and further averring, that, from the commencement of the suit
in the Circuit Court' by Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence, in the
name of McNutt, as Governor of Mississippi, on the official bond
of Bland, until the judgment of reversal by the Supreme Court
of the United States, he had no notice or knowledge whatever
thereof, or of the proceedings therein; that no process was ever
served, or, to his knowledge, attempted to be served, on him;
that although the deputy marshal makes return to the summons, that it was "executed on B. G. Humphreys, personally,
on the 14th day of October, 1839," this is absolutely untrue ;
that he can prove that the return was so made,. at the instance
of Bland, who wished the fact of the suit to be kept a secret
from him, Humphreys; and that he never employed counsel,
and nevdr authorized any person to enter an appearance for him.
He, therefore, prayed for an injunction to restrain proceedings
at law under the judgment; .and, upon final hearing, that the
injunction might be made perpetual.
On the 8th of July, 1845, Humphreys gave bond in the sum
of $ 12,880.12, and the injunction issued.
On the 11th of November, 1845, Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence filed a general demurrer to the bill, as exhibiting no case
for equitable relief.
On the 17th of November, 1846, judgment was given on the
demurrer against the complainant, Humphreys, and a decree
entered dismissing his"bill.
On the same day, the appeal was prayed for, and allowed.
The cause was argued by Mr. Gilpin, for the appellant, and

Air. Jones, for the appellees.
AMr. Gilpin, for the appellant, contended that this decree
was erroneous, and ought to be reversed.
It appears by the foregoing statement of the facts, that, on
the 16th of July, 1840, Humphreys paid, under executions
issued up-in judgments obtained against him on this bond, the
whole penalty thereof. If, therefore, the present appellees are
not restrained from proceeding to execution against him, upon
the judgment they have subsequently obtained on the same
VOL. Ix.

26

302

SUPREME COURT.
Humphreys v. Legget

et al.

bond, he will be compelled to pay the penalty thereof a second
time.
The questions, therefore, to be considered, are, whether he
was legally bound to pay under the executions issued against
him on the 16th of July, 1840; whether, notwithstanding such
payment, the appellees can compel him also to pay the amount
of the judgment they have obtained; and whether he is entitled to the protection of a court of equity, against such compulsory payment, in the manner prayed for in his bill.
I. The appellant, Humphreys, was compelled by law to pay
the whole amount of the penalty of his bond; it was done by
the sale, under execution, of his property, real and personal, even his-household furniture; he could not delay the payment
even by giving security. The law of Mississippi, under which
his bond was given, and by the provisions of which law his
liability as security of the sheriff is regulated, compelled the
payment under the judgments obtained by the Planters' Bank
of Mississippi, on the 20th and 25th of May, 1840, and the
executions issued thereon, amounting to more than $15,000, the
penalty of the bond.
" If any sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or other officer, shall
-collect, by virtue of an execution or executions, a part or the
whole am'ount of money due by such 'execution or executions,
such sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or other officer, shall; immediately after the collection of any such sum or sums of money,
pay the same- over.to the plaintiff in the execution, or his attorney, provided that the plaintiff or his attorney shall demand the
same; and on failure to pay the same at the time of demand
made, such sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or other officer, his
and their sureties, shall be liable to pay to the plaintiff in the execution the whole amount of money so collected, together with
twenty-five per cent. damages thereon, with interest at the rate
of eight per cent. per annum ; to be recovered by motion before the court to which such execution is made returnable,
after reasonable notice to such sheriff or other officer of such
motion; and the clerk of the court before which such motion
is made shall indorse og- the execution issuing on the judgment
against such sheriff, coroner, or other officer, and their securities, that Ino security of any kind shall be taken.' Provided
always, that if any sheriff shall have more executions than one
in his hands, and shall have failed to make a sufficiency of.
money to satisfy the whole amount of the several executions,
and shall file an affidavit. of the fact with the clerk of the Circuit Court of the propef county, such sheriff shall not be liable
to the penalties hereby preschbed."

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

303

Humphreys v. Leggett et a'.

"All sheriffs shall be liable, in the manner above prescribed,
for moneys collected by their deputies on executions, whether
the same shall have come to the hands of the sheriff or not."
"If any sheriff, coroner, or other officer, shall fail to return
any execution to him or them directed, on the return day
thereof, the plaintiff in the execution may recover judgment
against such sheriff, coroner, or other officer, and his and their
sureties, for the amount of suchexecutions, with five per cent.
damages, by motion before the court to which execution is returnable, with eight per cent. interest on the same until paid;
and the clerk shall indorse on the execution issuing on such
judgment, that no security is to be taken. Provided that, after
any sheriff, coroner, or other officer shall have paid the amount
of money and damages received as aforesaid, then the original
execution shall be vested in such sheriff, coroner, or other officer, for his or their benefit ; and provided, also, that nothing in
this section contained shall be so construed as to affect the
remedy already existing against sheriffs, or other officers, for
failing to return executions." Howard & Hutchinson's Iiss.
Digest, p. 296, § 25; Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 447, art. 7,

§ 1.

The facts stated, shown in the record, and admitted by the
demurrer, bring within the stringent provisions of this law the
liability of the appellant, as security of the sheriff.
On the 12th of December, 1838, and on the 21st of January,
1839, executions had come into the hands of the sheriff returnable to thb next term of the court; at this time, no suit had
been instituted by the appellees against the sheriff or his sureties, on their official bond, on the ground of the alleged escape
of M Nider; these executions not being returned, judgments
were recovered against the appellant, on his official bond, on
summary motion, and in exact accordance with the law ; executions were thereon issued to the coroner against the appellant; it was therein ordered that 1 no security of any kind was
to be taken" ; no other executions were then in the coroner's
hands against the appellant; under these executions, the entire
penalty of the official bond was compulsorily made, by the sale
of the property of the surety.
The first position, then, is established in law and in fact, that
the appellant was legally obliged to pay, and did actually pay,
under the writs delivered to the coroner on the 16th of July,
1840, the whole penalty of the bond, to recover which the
present action was also brought by the appellees.
I. Are the appellees then entitled, under their judgment subsequently recovered against Humphreys, on the same bond, to
issue an execution and levy its amount on his property?

304

SUPREME

COURT.

Humphreys v. Leggett et aL

They are not (even if their judgment in this action werea
legal and perfect judgment, which it is not), because the penalty of the bond has already been paid, and the obligation of
Humphreys is discharged; because the Planters' Bank, being
the first execution creditors, were entitled to be first paid ; and
because it was the neglect of the appellees themselves, not to
proceed in the same summary manner to recover their debt, as
they were enabled to do by the law of Mississippi.
1. The law of Mississippi limits the liability of the surety to
the amount of the penalty of his bond.
"The sheriff's bond shall not be void on the first recovery,
but may be put in suit and prosecuted from time to -ime, at
the costs and charges of any party injured, until the whole
Hutch. Miss.
amount of the penalty thereof be recovered."
Code, p. 441, art. 3, § 1.
"In all actions which shall be biought upon any bond or
bonds for the payment of money, wherein the plaintiff shall recover, jodgment shall be entered for the penalty of such bond,
to be discharged by the payment of the principal and the interest due thereon, and the costs of suit." Howard and Hutch.
Dig. p. 614, § 3 ; Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 874, § 56.
And the same principle has been repeatedly afFirmed by judicial decigions. McGill v. U. States Bank, 12 Wheaton, 511;
Harris v. Clapp, 1 Mass. 308; State v. Wayman, 2 Gill &
Johns. 279; Glidewell v. McGaughey, 2 Blackf. 361.
2. It -was not possible for the appellant, Humphreys, to avoid
the payment under the execution of the Planters' Bank; no
security Qr stay of any kind was allowed; if th6 appellees, as
plaintiffs and judgment creditors, had acquired rights, they
were rights to be enforced against the fund made by the execution, or as a prior lien on the property levied on; if their
suit or judgment gave them priority, it could not prevent the
levy and sale, under this execution, but must look for its enforcement to the property sold, the money made, or the officer
who wrongfully appropriated it; the obligation of the surety,
Humphreys, was not the less discharged.
By the statutes of Mississippi, a judgment is a lien on all the
defendant's property; personal as well as real, from the time it
"In all cases, the property of the defendant shall
:is entered.
be bound and liable to any judgment that may be entered up,
Howard & Hutch.
from the time of entering such judgment."
Dig., p. 621, § 43; Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 881, § 12.
By repeated decisions, the .execution creditor is entitled to
the proceeds of the sale, the prior judgment creditor, who has
not levied an execution, being left to his lien on the property.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

305

Humphreys v. Leggett at al

Robinson v. Green, 6 How. Miss. 223; Commercial Bank v.
Yazoo, Ibid. 535; Goode v. Mayson, Ibid. 547; Andrews v.
Doe, Ibid. 562; Bibb v. Jones, 7 ib. 400.
3. The statute of Mississippi gave to the appellees the same
summary mode of proceeding against the sheriff and his sureties on the escape of McNider, when in custody under their ca.
sa. ; if resorted to, notice would have been given to the surety,
Humphreys, and his property would have been applied to their
judgment; their neglect has been the cause of his property
being applied, in his ignorance of any prior claim, to another
debt.
"If any sheriff, under-sheriff, or other officer, shall make return upon any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, or attachment
for not performing a decree in chancery, for payment of any
sum of money, that he hath taken the body or bodies of the
defendant or defendants, and hath the same ready to satisfy the
money in such writ mentioned, and shall have actually received
,such money of the defendant or, defendants, or suffered him,
her, or them to escape, with the consent of such sheriff, undersheriff, or other officer, and shall not immediately pay such
money to the party to whom thesame is payable, or his attorney, or shall make any other return upon any such execution
as will show that such sheriff, under-sheriff, or other officer,
hath voluntarily, and without authority, omitted to levy the
same, or as would entitle the plaintiff to recover from such
sheriff, or other officer, by action of debt, the debt, damages, or
costs in such execution mentioned, and such sheriff or other
officer shall not immediately pay the same to the party to
whom it is payable, or to his attorney, it shall and may be
lawful, in either of the said cases, for the creditor at whose suit
such ca. sa. or attachment shall issue, upon motion made before the court from which such writ issued, to demand judgment against such sheriff, under-sheriff, or other officer, and the
sureties of either of them and their legal representatives jointly,
for the money mentioned in such writ, with interest thereon at
the rate of thirty per cent. per annum from the return day of
the execution." How. & Hutch. Dig., p. 642, § 42; -Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 905, § 49.
Viewed,'therefore, in every light, the obligation of the ap
pellee, Humphreys, under his official bond, has been discharged; it has been discharged involuntarily, by force of
law ; if the appellants lose a recourse to his personal security,
they yet retain it, if their judgment be valid, against his property which-was levied on; or, if they do not so retain it,.their
loss has arisen from their own failure to resort to remedies and
26*

SUPREME COURT.
Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

modes of proceeding which the statutes of Mississippi gave
them.
III. But if this were not so, -if
the appellant, Humphreys,
would be liable to an execution on such a judgment, legally recovered against him as a surety on this bond, -still, in this
case, the appellees, as judgment creditors, are not entitled to it,
because the judgment they have entered against Humphreys, if
even it be not illegal in form and substance, was without any
notice to him, was obtained by fraud practised against him,
and is altogether such a proceeding as a court of equity will
protect an innocent party from the consequences of, if sought
to. be carried into operation against him, by the forms of law.
1. So far as appears by the record, it is 'a general judgment
entered in the Circuit Court against Humphreys for the sum 6f
$ 6,355.33, founded on the mandate of the Supreme Court,
which merely reversed the previous judgment of the Circuit
Court rendered on demurrer, and in favor of the defendant.
All for which the appellees, being plaintiffs in that suit,
were entitled to judgment, was the amount of damages they
had sustained; and that amount should appear to be ascertained in due course of law. This the record nowhere exhibits; it exhibits merely a ca. sa. against McNider, reciting a
judgament- held by the appellees against him for $ 3,910.78.
That such a judgment cannot sustain an execution, is a proposition too well settled to require argument or authority for its
-support. Besides, it is clearly established by the statutes of
Mississippi, under which the liability of the appellant, Humphreys, accrues, and by the provisions of which its extent is to
be ascertained.
(9If the plaintiff in any suit or action shall demur to the plea
of the defendant, and the demurrer be sustained on joinder and
argument, the judgment of the court shall be respondeatouster;
but in such case the defendant shall be compelled to plead to
the merits of the suit or action, and the plaintiff shall not thereby be delayed of -his trial." Howard & Hutch. Dig, p. 616,
§ 8 ;. Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 875, § 66.
"Every sheriff [failing to execute his duty] shall be liable to
the action of the party injured by such default for all damages
which he or they may have sustained thereby." Howard &
Hutch. Dig., p. 292, § 7; Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 443, §,7.
"Where any sheriff or other officer shall have taken the body
of any debtor in execution, and shall wilfully and' negligently
suffer such debtor to escape, the person suing out such execution, his executors or administrators, shall and may have and
maintain an action of debt against such sheriff or other officer,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

307

Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

his executors or administrators, for the recovery of all such
sums of money as are mentioned in the said execution, and
damages for detaining the same." How. & Hutch. Dig.,
p. 649, § 61; Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 549, § 3.
2. But the judgment itself is totally invalid, as against the
appellant, Humphreys. It was obtained without notice to
him; without opportunity for defence; by a deliberate fraud
practised.towards him; and, if followed by execution, must involve him in great and irremediable loss.
The record shows, and the demurrer expressly admits, that,
in the action which has resulted in this judgment, Humphreys
never had any notice of the suit till the return of the mandate
from the Supreme Court; never was served with process-, directly or indirectly; and never authorized any one to appear
for him. Under a judgment so obtained, no execution can legally issue against him.
Personal notice to the defendant is indispensable to sustain
the validity of a judgment, and to authorize subsequent proceedings under it. Mayhew v. Thatcher, 6 Wheaton' 130;
Breedlove v. Nicolet, 7' Pet. 434; Haydel v. Girod, 10 Peters,
285; Kilborn v. Woodnorth, 5 Johns. 41; Robinson v. Ward,
8 Johns. 90; Borden v. Fitch, 15 Johns. 143; Kinderthook v.
Claw, 15 Johns. 538; Corliss v. Corliss, 8 Verm. 389; Chase
v. Hathaway, 14 Mass. 224.
Nor is the necessity of such notice obviated by an entry of
his appearance on the record, or* by the appearance of attorney
for him without his knowledge or authority. Starbuck v.
Murray, 5 Wendell, 161; Holbrook v. Murray, 5 Wendell,
162; Shumway v. Stillman, 6 Wendell, 449; Aldrich v. Kinney, 4 Conn. 382; Bonney y. Baldwin, 3 Missouri, 49.
It is no answer to this to say, that the appellant, Humphreys, is precluded from alleging want of notice by the return
of the deputy marshal to the summons, in the words, -" 1 Executed this writ on B. G. Humphreys, personally, on the 14th
day of October, 1839; (signed) W. M. Gwn, Marshal, per Jno.
Huntee, D. M." Because, in any event, the return could only
be held to be evidence, not liable to contradiction by the appellant, of such execution, service, and notice; it could'only be
held'to be such sufficient evidence as was necessary to entitle
the plaintiffs to judgment in that suit. But here the demurrer
admits the fact of service and notice to be otherwise; and it is
not controverted in the suit, of which alone it forms part of
the record. In a different suit; for different objects ; in a different tribunal.
But this return would not be evidence of notice or service

SUPREME COURT.
Haaphreys v. Leggett et al.

even in that suit; because it would be meiely primd facie
evidence, and it has been disproved; because it does not appear
that the execution was made according to law; and because
there is no proof that the officer who executed it had legal
authority to do so.
The return is only prima facie proof of the fact it asserts.
7 Com. Dig. 287, Return, G; Jones v. Commer. Bank, 5 How.
Miss. 43; Williams o. Crutcher, 5 ib. 71; Anderson v. Carlisle,
7 ib. 412; Patterson v. Denton, 1 Smedes & Marsh. Ch. 595;
Boynton v. Willard, 10 Pick. 170; Butts v. Francis, 4 Conn.
424; Watson v. Watson, 6 Conn. 337; Waterhouse v. Gibson,
4 Greenl. 234. And the fact asserted in it is admitted to be
untrue.
The return does not show the writ was executed by leaving
a copy with the person served, which is absolutely required by
law,- a defect in the return fatal to it, even as primdfacie
evidence. How. & Hutch. Dig., p. 577, § 5, p. 583, § 27;
Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 835, § 22; Smith v. Cohea, 3
Ho*. Miss. 35, 39; Fatheree v. Long, 5 ib. 661; Eskridge v.
Jones, 1 Smedes & Marsh. 596.
Nor is there any proof that the execution of the writ (if
made) was by a legally constituted deputy; if not, it was absolutely void; that it was is not to be presumed in a case like
this, - it must be proved. How. & Hutch. Dig., p. 292, § 6;
Hutch. Miss. Code, p. 443, § 6.
IV. It has been established, then, that the appellant,
Humphreys, has already legally and compulsorily paid the
whole penalty of the bond, on which the judgment of the appellees is founded.
It has also been established, that the judgment so obtained
does not legally authorize an execution against his property.
It has also been established, that the judgment was obtained
without notice to him, and by fraud practised against him.
It is proved by the record, and admitted by the demurrer,
that the appellant came to the knowledge of these facts only
since.the mandate trans'mitted from the Supreme Court to the
Circuit Court; that he was guilty of no ladhes; that he prayed
and was refused leave to plead them in the action a law; that
the appellees have been decreed by the Circuit Court to be entitled to issue an execution against him; and that such e~ecution is about so to issue.
By the settled principles of equity he is entitled, in this state
of facts, to the interposition of a court of equity, and to the
perpetual injunction and relief prayed for in his bill. 2 Story's
Equity, § 887, 894; Fonblanque's Equity, 6, 2, §§ 1, 2;

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

309

Humphre-s v. Leggett et al.

Marine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 5 Cranch, 100; 6 ib. 206; 7 ib.
332; Lansing v. Eddy, 1 John's Ch. 51; Simpson v. Hart, 1
ib. 9S; Hawley v. Mancius, 7 ib. 182; King v. Baldwin, 17
Johns. 387; Blount v. Green, 3 Hayw. 89; Winchester v.
Jackson, 3 ib. 305; Click v. Gillespie, 4 ib. 8; Goodrich v.
Brown, I Chan. Cas. 49; Barnsley v. Powell, 1 Yes. sen. 299;
Jarvis v. Chandler, 1 Turn. & Russ. 319; Johnson v. Harvey,
4 Mass. 483; Lovejoy v. Webber, 10 Mass. 103.
111r. Jones, for the appellees.
The appellees present the following summary- of the grounds
upon which they hold the decree rendered in the court below
irreversible.
The bill, being framed in palpable violation of the fortieth,' forty-first, and forty-second rules of this court, was liable
to dismission, with or without demurrer, upon motion, or demurrer, ore tenus,. at the bar; and, being already dismissed on
demurrer, should stand dismissed, whatever title to relief in
equity might have arisen from its allegations, had they been
brought out in an admissible and competent bill.
The reversal of the decree Vould, of course, be followed by
a mandate to the court below, calling for an answer from the
defendants ;. when it is plain they can put in no answer that
would not come within the danger of impertinence denounced
in the fortieth rule.
But, waiving all ex-options to the frame of the bill, the facts
alleged in it lay no foundation for equitable interference to set
aside the judgment recovered at law by the appellees.
1st. Because the appellant, from conclusive evidence of his
own showing, appears to have lost the benefit of his defence, if
he ever had one that was available at law, by his own fault and
negligence, continued down to the time of the rendition of the
judgment against him in this court (2 How. 28), and during all
the residue of that term, when he .might, if he could have
shown any ground of defence at once available and just, have
moved the court to remand the cause, with instructions to permit him to plead de novo, as was done in Lloyd v. Scott, 4
Peters, 231.
2d. Because, if the facts alleged by him were true, they lay
no ground for the interference of equity to restrain the appellees from using and enforcing their judgment at law.
3d. Because he never had any available defence at law;
such as he pretends being inadmissible either at law or equity.
This court has gone far to systematize the rules which
should limit the interference of equity to restrain parties from

310

SUPREME COURT.
Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

using and enforcing judgments at law, upon the ground of having failed to avail themselves of some legal defence; a branch
of equity jurisprudence about which rather. loose notions had
prevailed, and no consistent course of procedure had been followed.
The concurrence and the clear proof of the following circumstances are held indispensable: - 1st. That the party seeking
such relief really had a defence that was at once just in itself,
and available at law. 2d. That he lost the advantage of it by
accident, surprise, or fraud, unmixed with any fault or negligence in himself or his agents. 3d. That the circumstances
of such accideft, surprise, or fraud affected the opposite party
so far as to make it obviously against conscience for him to use
and enforce his judgment. Mar. Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch,
336, 338; Brown v. Swann, 10 Pet. 504-506; Truly v. Wanzer, 5 How. 141.
The proximate cause of the accident by which the appellant
pretends to have been ousted of his just defence is collusion
between" Bland, his co-obligor and co-defendant, and the sheriff;
by which the sheriff undertook to make a false and fraudulent
return of the alias writ of summons.
To which w- answer, 1st. That there is, nothing in all this to make it against conscience for the appdllees to execute their judgment: if the appellant has been wronged by this misdemeanour in office, and
innocent of all privity to it, it was no less a fraud upon the
appellees and upon the law; and the appellees, certainly, were
no less innocent of all privity. The equities being equal, a
court of equity cannot shift the burden from the one to the
other; but must leave each undisturbed in his legal rights.
2d. But, in truth, the appellant was, in no sort, injured by
the alleged collusion and fraud between Bland and the sheriff;
every defence that the nature of the case admitted was taken,
and urged with all practicable effect. As to the defence, ,of the
loss of which alone he complains, it was no defence to that action ;. but belonged to the other suits on the same bond in the
Circuit Court of Claiborne County. So, if the misdemeanour
6f the sheriff laid any foundation for relief in equity, it was
against the judgments recovered in that court, not against the
judgment recovered by the appellees.
'3d. That the sheriff's return is absolutely conclusive.on the
parties to the suit; and, as between them, the truth of it cannot be drawn in question in any form of procedure at law or

equity.
This is the very first case, we believe, in which it was ever

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

311

Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

attempted by bill in equity; but in the courts of law it has
been frequently tried in every form admissible in the practice
of those courts, - by way of averment in pleading, - by way
of motion to set aside on affidavits of fraud and falsehood;
and the invariable answer of the English courts, from the days
of Queen Elizabeth to the days of Queen Victoria, has been,
that the return is conclusive between the parties to the suit,
neither traversable in pl.eading, nor liable to contradiction by a
motion to set it aside, or in any other form of procedure,.but an
action against the sheriff.
All the reasons that forbid any question of the truth of the
return in the courts of law, equally forbid it in the courts of
equity. In fact, the equitable discretion exercised by courts
of law in the modern practice of motions would be quite competent to administer relief, if the case were relievable on the
principles of equity.
The decisions of the courts of law are therefore conclusive
against relief in the courts of equity.
The sheriffs return of rescous on mesne process is conclusive against the party charged, - equivalent to a conviction;
he -is not put upon interrogatories, because he cannot traverse
the return, and the fine is summarily imposed. Rex v. Elkins,
4 Burr. 2129; Rex v. Pember, Cas. Temp. Hardw. 112. So,
on sci. fa. against terre-tenants, the return of sci. feci. A. B.,
tenant of one messuage, &c., is conclusive, and he cannot
plead non-tenure. Flud v. Pennington, Oro. Eliz. 872; Whitrong v. Blaney, 2 Mod. 10; Barr v. Satchell, 2 Str. 813.
Though a strong case of collusion and fraud between sheriff
and defendant be made out, the return of non est inventus is
conclusive on plaintiff. Goubot v. De Crony, 3 Tyrwhitt,
906; S. C., 1 Cromp. & Mees. 772. See Harrington v. Taylor, 15 East, 37S ; Lofft's Rep. 371.
.Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, Humphreys, who was complainant below,
filed hi bill against the defendants, praying an injunction
against the ssuing of an execution on a -udgment they had
obtained against him at law.
His bill sets forth, that he was one of the sureties of Richara
Bland, late sheriff of Claiborne County, in his official- bond.
That in, March, 1839, the present defendants -instituted a suit
on the bond against Bland and his sureties, on which the Circuit Court rendered a judgment in favor of the defendantt.
The cause was removed to this court by writ of error, -where
the judgment of the Circuit Court was raversed, and the case

312

SUPREME COURT.
Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to enter judgment against Humphreys, the surviving surety. This was in
February, 1845. In the mean while, at May term, 1840, judgments were entered in the State Circuit Court of Claiborne
County against the sheriff and his sureties on the same bond,
and the whole amount of the penalty collected, by levy and
sale of complainant's property.
The bill, moreover, avers, that complainant had no notice
or knowledge whatsoever of the suit and proceedings against
him by these defendants, till after the case was remanded by
,this court ; that the sheriff's return of service of the writ on
him was false, and made at the request of Bland, for the purpose of keeping the complainant in ignorance of .the pendency
of the suit; that when the cause was remanded to the Circuit
Court, he offeyed to plead his payment of the bond puis darrein,
continuance; but -the court refused to receive the plea, on the
ground, that the mandate of the Supreme Court was imperative
on them to enter a judgment for the plaintiff.
The defendants demurred to this bill for want of equity, and
the court below sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the bill,
and the complainant has appealed to this court.
Do the facts set forth in the bill, and admitted by the demurrer, entitle the complainant to the injunction prayed for?
According to the view entertained by the court of the true
merits of this case, it will be unnecessary to examine the question so much mooted on the argument, as to the conclusiveness
of the sheriff's return, or whether equity would interfere, where
a false return has been made by the sheriff in collusion with a
co-defendant, without any fraud or fault of the plaintiff. We
shall, therefore, consider the case as if the complainant had
full notice of the suit at law, and the summons had been duly
served on him.
The laws of Mississippi limit the liability of the sureties in
the official bond of the sheriff to the amount of the penalty.
Any person injured by a default of the sheriff in paying over
money collected by him may have a judgment entered on the
bond for the amount due to him, on motion, without service
of process, or stay of execution. This judgment is a lien on
all the personal and real property of the defendants, and has a
priority over all judgments subsequently obtained.
As the officer is liable to the extent of his defaults, and the
surety only to the. extent of the bond, difficulties will, no
doubt, often occur as to the mode in which sureties may defend themselves, when judgments are demanded exceeding the
amount of the penalty. If the prior judgments should be paid

JANUARY TERM. 1850.

313

Humphreys v. Leggett et al.

out of the property of the sheriff, the sureties might wrongfully
escape, if the amount of prior judgments might be pleaded
against subsequent demands. On the contrary, if it could not,
the surety might be compelled to pay more than the amount
of his bond, unless the court should protect him in some way.
In some States, where a similar law prevails as to suits on
sheriffs' bonds, each suitor is permitted to take a judgment on
the bond for the amount of his claim, and when the sureties
have paid in the whole amount of the penalty, all further executions are stayed by the court, and the money apportioned to
the claimants according to their respective prioritieg. But,
whatever may be the practice of the courts of Mississippi in
such cases, it is clear, that, when the surety has paid the whole
penalty of his bond, he should, at some stage of the proceedings, be suffered to plead this defence to further exactions. If
he has had no such opportunity before judgment, the court, on
motion, should permit it to be done after judgment, and order
a stay of execution. , Formerly, courts of law gave a remedy in
such cases, by a writ of audita querela,-"
a writ," it is said,
"of a most remedial nature, and invented lest in any case there
should be an oppressive defect of justice, where a party who
has a good defence is too late in making it in the ordinary
forms of law" ; and although it is said to be in its nature a
bill in equity, yet, in modern practice, courts of law usually afford the same remedy on motion in a summary way. The
practice-in Mississippi seems to prefer a bill in equity for the
same purpose.
And courts of equity usually grant a remedy-by injunction
against a judgment at law, upon the same principles. In Truly
v. Wanzer, 5 Howard, 142, this court say, - "It may be
stated as a general principle with regard to injunctions after a
judgment at law, that any fact which proves it to be against
conscience to execute such judgment, and of which the party
could not have avaled himself in a court of law, or of which
he might have availed himself at law, but was prevented by
fraud or accident, unmixed with any fault or negligence in
himself or his agents, will authorize a court of equity to interfere by injunction to restrain the adverse party from availing
himself of such judgment." (See also Story, Eq. Jur. § 887.)
In the case before us, the surety had been compelled to pay
the whole amount of his bond by process from the State courts,
before the present defendants obtained their judgment against
him, but after the institution of their suit. This would have
been a good defence to the action if pleaded puis darrein continuance. The complainant tendered this plea at the proper
27
voL. Ix.

314

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et aI.

time, and was refuised the benefit of it, not because it was adjudged insufficient as a defence, but because the court considerdd they had no discretion to allow it. The mandate fiom
this'court was, probably, made without reference to the possible
eonsequences that might flow from it, At all events, it operated
'unjustly, by precluding the complainant from an opportunity of
making a just and legal defence to the action. The payment
was made while the cause was pen'ding here. The party was
guilty of no laches, but lost the benefit of his defence, by an
accident over which he had no control. He is, therefore, in.
the same condition as if the defence had arisen after judgment,
which would entitle him to relief by audita guerelda, or a bill
in equity for an injunction.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the complainant was entitied td the relief prayed for in his bill, and that the decree of
the court below should be rbversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississiplii, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
,that this cause be, and the.same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

RoBINsoN

LTLE AND LYDIA LOUIsA LYTLE,

HIS WIFE,

ELIAS

HOOPER AND MARY E. HOOPER,oHIS WIPE, AND NATHAN H. (r.OYES,
A MINOR, UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE, BY WILEY CLAYv. THE STATE OF - ARKANSAS, WIL,Wu RusTON, HIS GtrAR.a,

SELL, THE REAL ESTATE BANK OF THE STATE Or ARKANSAS, THE
TRUSTEES .Or SAID REAL ESTATE BANK AFORESAID, RICHARD C.

BYRD, JAMES PITCHER, WK. P. OFFICER, EBENE7iR WALTERS,

Jom WASSELL, JOHN W. CocRK, FftEDERICK W. TRAPNALL,
GEORGE C. WATKINS, SAMUEL H. HEMPSTEAD, JOHri ROBINS, JOHN
PERCEPUL, JAMES, S. CONWAY, HENRY F. PENDLETON, JACOB
MITcHELL, THOMAs S. REYNOLDS, JOHN H. "LEECH, WK. E.
WOODRUFF, CHESTER AsH ru, WK. 3. BraD, WK. W. DAVEL,
AND -JOHN MOhRISON AND EDNEY, HIS WIFE.
The preemption act of May 29th, 1830, conferred certain rights upon settlrs upon

the public lands, upon pro6f of settlement or improvement being made to the sats-

