248

SUPREME COURT.
Mason et al. v. Fearson.

A doubt was suggested, on the argument, as to the proper
disposition of the case in the event of our arriving at the conclusion, that the jurisdiction of the court below ceased at the
termination of the Territorial government. But the acts of
Congress of February 22 and 23, 1847 (Sess. Laws, ch. 17,
§ 8, and ch. 20, § 7), which provided, specially, for a review of
this class of cases in this court, have also 'provided for the execution of any judgment that may be given in them, by directing that the mandate shall be issued to the District Court 6f the
State into which the same acts had already transferred the
records.
The case, therefore, can take the usual direction in cases
where this court determines that the court below acted without jurisdiction in the matters before it; and that is, to reverse
the decree and remit the case, with directions that the court
dismiss the proceedings, which direction is given accordingly.
IOrder.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Florida, and was akgued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said District Court in this cause b?, and the
same is hereby, reversed and annulled, for the want of jurisdiction in that court, and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions
to dismiss the libel in this cause.

ANNA M. MASON, WiDow, AND JoHN MAsON,
EILBRECK MASON,

MuRRAY MASON,

MAsON, SAMIUEL CooTER AND SARAI

JArMs M. MASON,.

MAYNADiER MAsoN, BARLOW

M., HIs WIFE, SIDNEY S.

, HIS WIFE, CECILIUS C. JAIESON AND CATHELEE AND RINE, HIS WIFE, HEIRS AND DEVISEES OF JOHN MASON, DECEASED,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH N. FEARSON.

Under the earlier charters of the city of Washington, this court decided (8 Wheaton,
687), that, where an individual owned several lots which were put up for sale for
taxes, the corporation had no right to sell more than one, provided that ohe sold
for 4nough to pay the taxes on all.
In 1824, Congress passed an act, providing, "That it shalt be ]aful for the said
corporation, when there 'hall be a number of lots assessed to the same person or
"persons, to sell one or more of such lots for the taxes and expenses due on the
whole; and also to provide for the sale of any part of a lot for the taxes and e.penses due on said lot, or other lots assessed to th same person, as may appear
expedient, according to such rules and regulations as the corporation may prescribe."

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

249

Mason et al. v. Fearson.
This i,; not in conUict with the previous decision of this court. The discretion given
to the corporation i not unlimited to sell each lot for its own taxes. On the contrarv, the words "'it shall be lawful" and "may" sell one lot, impose an obligation
to stop selling if that one lot produces enough to pay the taxes on all.
What a publi(, corporation or officer is empowered to do for others, and it is beneficial to them to have done, the law holds he ought to do.

THis was an action of ejectment brought by John Mason, in
his lifetime, to recover possession of some lots in the city of
Washin gton held under a tax title.
The case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the County of Washington and
District of Columbia.
In the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, the following
statement of facts was agreed upon, subject to the opinion of
the court upon it.
Statement.
"The plaintiff, to support the issue on his part, made out a
title in one Benjamin Stoddert, in all the lots in the declaration
mentioned, except lot No. 8, in square No. 44, under the Commissioners of the City of Washington, or the Superintendent
of the Public Buildings in said city, and proved that lot No. 8,
in square ,No. 44, was allotted to' Robert Morris and John
Nicholso1 , original proprietors of the ground on which the said
square was laid out, in the distribution of the lots in said
square between the public and the proprietors, and then made
out a title in the said Benjamin Stoddert, under the said Morris
and Nicholson, to the said lot No. 8, in square No. 44. It was
thereupon agreed that Benjamin Stoddert was, prior to the 18th
day of April, in the year 1805, seized in fee of all .the lots in
the said declaration mentioned. The plaintiff, further to support the issue on his part, offered to read, and read in evidence
to the jury, a deed of conveyance of each of the said lots from
the said Benjamin Stoddert, bearing date the 18th day of April,
in the year 1805, to David Peter and James S. Morsell, and to
the survivor of them, and the heirs of such survivor, in the
words and figures following, to wit (copied in p. 20) ; also the
printed articles of association mentioned and referred to in the
said deed (copied in p. 49). The plaintiff also offered to read,
and read in evidence to the jury, the bill of complaint, answers,
and decree, in a certain cause on the chancery side of the said
Circuit Court for the county aforesaid, in which Henry Alexander and Mary Air were complainants, and James S. Morsell,
and Joseph Forrest, and others, were defendants; also the report of the proceedings of James S. Morsell, the trustee appointed by the decree of said court, in the said cause, and of the

250

SUPREME COURT.
Mason et al. v. Fearson.

.sales made by him in virtue of such decree, and the orders of
the said court ratifying the said sales, and a deed from the
said trustee to the plaintiffs lessor, the said John Mason, for the
said lots in the said declaration mentioned,, bearing date the
13th day of November, in the year 1844 (copied in pp. 32 to.
57). The plaintiff also read in evidence to the jury two receipts signed W. W. Billing, collector, marked B and C, one
for taxes for the years 186 and 1827, the other for taxes for
the year 1832, on sundry lots therein mentioned, assessed to
the Washington Tontine Company (copied in pp. 61, 62).
The plaintiff there rested.
'Whereupon the defendant, to support the issue on his part,
produced, and read in evidence to the jury, the official assessment-books of the corporation of the city of Washington, for
the years 1836 and 1837, and proved that the lots in the said
declaration mentioned, with divers other lots in the said city,
amounting to twenty in number, were assessed for the said
years to the Washington Tontine Company; 'that the said
lots, and many others in the said city, had been so assessed in
the books of the said corporation to the Washington Tontine
Company from the years 1808 down to 1840 inclusive. The
defendants also produced and read in evidence the tax-books
of the said corporation for the years 1836 and 1837, and proved
thereby that the lots in the said declaration mentioned, and
sundry other lots assessed to the Washington Tontine Company, appeared arranged in columns in the established and
accustomed forms, exhibiting the manner in which said lots
were assessed for those years, -the numbers of the lots and
squares, the rate of assessment, valuation of the lots severally,
the valuation of the improvements, and the amount of tax on
each lot; that the lots so assessed to the Washington Tontine
Company were entered in the said tax-books for the years
.)
1836 and 1837, in the following manner (copied in pp. 63
"1The defendant further proved, that the tax on the said lots,
so assessed to the Washington Tontine Company, for the year
.1836, fell due and was payable on the 1st day of Jamary, in
the year 1837, and the tax on the same lot for the year 1837
fell due and was payable on the 1st day of January, 1838; and
that on the 1st day of January, in the year 1838, there were
twb years' taxes due and in arrear on the said lots in the said
declaration mentioned, and on the others so assessed to the said
Washington Tontine Company. It is further proved, on the
part of the defendant, that the collector of taxes imposed by
the said corporation, and who was authorized to advertise and
sell the property liable to be sold in the said city for taxes, on

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

251

MIason et al. v. Pearson.

the 15th day of September, in the year 1838, the taxes on the
said lots lor the year 1S36 and 1837 being in arrear and unpaid, caused to be inserted in the National Intelligencer, a
newspaper published in the said city, the following advertiserment (copied in p. 64); and that the said advertisement appeared in the said newspaper once in each week for twelve
successive weeks before the day appointed therein for the sale
of the said lots; that the said advertisement was erroneous,
in that it stated that three years' taxes were in arrear and unpaid on the said lots, the fact being that the tax on the said
lots for the year 1835 had been paid to the corporation before
the said advertisement appeared; that such error was detected
before the salq, and the lots were in fact sold for the taxes due
and in arrear for the years 1836 and 1837; that in pursuance
of his authority, and according to the tenor of the said advertisement, the said collector, on the 8th day of December, in the
year 1838, set up at public sale, in the Aldermen's room, in the
City Hall, in said city, in the presence of about sixty persons,
the said lots so advertised and assessed to the Washington
Tontine Company; and the said lots, being all the lots so assessed to said Washington Tontine Company, were severally
sold, each for its own tax, and the said sales were reported, and
entered on the official sales book of the said corporation, in
manner and form following, (copied in p. 65,) which shows the
number of the lots and squares, to whom the same were assessed, the names of the purchasers, the amount of tax due on
each lot, the expenses of sale, and the amount for which each
lot sold; it was also proved by the said collector, and is admitted, that the said lots were sold in the order in which they appear set down in the said advertisement and report of sales.
"9It was further proved by the defendant, that the said defendant paid the taxes and expenses on each lot purchased by
him at said sale; and that on the 19th day of May, in the year
1841, the said defendant paid the residue of the purchasemoney for the said lots bought by him, with interest thereon,
at the rate of 10 per cent. from the 8th day of December, in
the year 1840, to the said 19th day of May, 1841, and no
more, and received a deed'for the said lots fr6m the mayor of
the said city of. Washington on the 1st day of 'June, in the
same year, duly executed and acknowledged, and afterwards
recorded, which was given in evidence to the jury, and in the
words and figures following, to wit (copied in p. 66). It was
further admitted, that the said John Mason, the plaintiff lessor,
was one of the original subscribers and members of the said
Washington Tontine Company, from the commencement of its

SUPREME COURT.
Mason et a.

v. Fearson.

organization to its dissolution, and received his share of the assets thereof; and that certificates of stock in said company
were issued by said company to the original shareholders, in
the words and figures following, to wit (copied in p. 70). And
that the said John Mason, the plaintiff lessor, held such certificate for the shares of stock in the 'said company owned
by him.
" Whereupon, the said facts having been so proved and
agreed, and reduced to writing, it was agreed by the counsel
for the plaintiff and the defendant, that a verdict should be
entered for the defendant, subject to the opinion of the court
on the facts and evidence so proved, agreed, and stated, as well
on the part of the plaintiff as of the defendant; and that if the
court should be of opinion, from the facts and evidence so
proved, agreed, and stated, on both sides, that the sale of the
lots mentioned in the declaration so made as aforesaid, by the
authority of the corporation of Washington city, was' a legal
and valid sale, and that the defendant thereby acquired a legal
title to the said lots, the s~id verdict should be entered for
the defendant; bitt if the court should be of opinion that the
said sale was not a legal and valid sale, and that the legal
title to the said lots did not thereby pass to the defendant, that
the verdict shall be entered, and judgment thereon be recorded
for the plaintiff. Either party to have a right of appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States upon the above statement
of facts and evidence, sb proved and agreed, and the judgment
of the court thereon.
" JOHN MARBURY,
Plaintiff's Attorney.
W. REWDIN, Defendant's Attorney."
The assessed value of the lots and repoit of sales, referred to
in 'the above statement, were as follows:
Assessed Value of the Lots.

Washington Tontine Co.

99

"

c
cc
99
cc
99
99
i
'

Eo

p

er'~nesn~eidec
-

5
6

-

4

24
26.

7
8

17

13
14
28
5
1 26

28

Owne'sName and Residence.

$82 Washington Tontine Co
296
cc
"
109
163
9
96
81
111
83
311

31
-4

9

C

-

"
"

"

37

"

"

1

42
44
55

"

"

c

"1

-

2

198

10
14
15
6
1
8
1
2
15

96
128

101
90
137
109
123
169
230

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

253

Mason et al. v. Pearson.

Extractfrom the Report made by the Collector to the Register,
of Lots sold for Taxes, on the 8th day of December, 1838.
C

To whom assessed.

To whom solO.
E

Washngton Tontine Co. $1.22 $0.94 Anthony Preston
1.06
4.44
0.95 T. W. Pairo
1.64
2.46
0.99 Wim. Easby
1.14
1.34
1.44
0.95 Anthony Preston
0.94 G. C. Grammer
1.22
1.68
0.95 3. N. learson
0.93
1.24
4.68
1.07
CC
1.01
2.96
it
0.95
1.44
1.92
0.97
1.52
0.95
1.34
1.14
2.04
0.97
1.64
0.95
-1.84 0.97 G. C. Grammer
2 56
0.99 J.N.F*earson
3.46
1.03 IA. Preston.

$2.16
5.50
2.59
3.45
2.48
2.39
2.16
2.63
2.17
5.75
3.97
2.39
2.89
2.47
2.48
3.01
2.59

2.81
3.55
4.49

Upon the agreed state of facts, the Circuit Court gave judgment for the defendant. The plaintiff brought the case to this
court, by, writ of error, and the present plaintiffs in error were
his heirs and devisees.
It was argued by Mr. James l1. Mason, for the plaintiffs in
error, and 1'r. Bradley, for the defendant in error.
On the part of the plaintiffs in error, three points were raised,
of which it is necessary to notice only one.
2. That, pursuant to the charter of their authority, it was
the duty of the corporate authorities of this city, in selling for
taxes in arrears the several lots in the proceedings mentioned,
all of which, though belonging to the appellant, were agsessed
to the Washington Tontine Company, to sell only "so much.
thereof as might be necessary" to pay the taxes due, with all
legal costs and charges arising thereon; that is to say, to sell
"one or more of said lots," so assessed, as might be found necessary to discharge the same.
Whereas, as appears by the case stated, these lots were "severally sold each for its own tax," without regard to the fact
that the first two lots sold did sell for more than sufficient to
VOL.

SUPREME COURT.
Mason et al. v. Fearson.

pay all taxes and charges due on the whole number advertised,
as assessed to the Washington. Tontine Company. Uporr this
point we refer to the act aforesaid of 1820, § 10-; Act of 1824,
§ 4; Act of 1848, § 7; Corporation of Washington v. Pratt, 8
Wheaton, 681; Ronkendorf v. Taylor's Lessee, 4 Peters, 349;
Stead's Executors v. Course, 4 Cranch, 403; Williams et al. v.
Peyton's Lessee, 4 Wheaton, 77; S. C., 4 Cond. Rep. 349;
Thatcher et al. v. Powell, 6 Wheaton,- 119.
Mr. Bradley, for the appellant, maintained the following
propositions : First. The power of taxation, and the mode in which it is
to be exercised, are given alone by the act of May, 1820.
And in, point of fact all the requirements of that act in that
particular have been complied with, and the books of the corporation are evidence of these acts.
Second. The means of enforcing this power, as against the
lot itsel; are given in the second section of the act of 1824.
And in point of fact all the acts necessary under that section
to be done have been fully performed by them in this case, unless they are restricted by the fourth section of the same-act.
Third. That the fourth section of the act of 1824 is not
mandatory; and it is left to the discretion of the corporate
authorities whether they will or will not provide for the sale of
any one or more lots, or part or parts of lots, to satisfy the taxes
due on the whole, assessed to the same person.
' No objection having been taken below, and none appearing
on the record as to the first two propositions, the argument will
be principally directed to the third, on which, indeed, the case
turns. If it shall be established, this case will operate to confirm the titles to a vast amount of property in this city which
has been sold for taxes since 1824; and if a different construction is given to it, those titles will, to that extent, be disturbed.
1st. If we collect from the original act and this supplement
alone, or from the case of the Corporation of Washington v.
Pratt, Francis, and others, the defects which existed in the
charter, and which were designed to be remedied by this supplement, we will find it must b6 construed as discretionary and
not mandatory. The following rules of 'interpretation are
given by the Barons of the Exchequer in Heydon's case, 3
Report, 7: -Inquire
1. What was the commui law before making the act.
2. What was the mischief and defecf against which the
common law did nbt provide.

JANUARY

TERMX 1850.

W

Mason et al. v. Fearson.

3. What remedy Parliament bath resolved, and appointed to
cure the disease of the commonwealth, &c.
4. The true reason of the remedy.
And it was held to be the duty of the judges, at all times, to
make such construction as would suppress the mischief aud
advance the remedy, putting down all subtile inventions for the
continuance of the mischief, et pro privato commodo; and adding force and life to the cure and remedy, according to the true
intent of the makers et pro bono publico.
And Dwarris, p. 697, says, - "The cause and reason of the
act (or, in other words, the mischief requiring the remedy)
may either be collected from the statute itself, or discovered
from circumstances extrinsic of the act ......
The remedy
is to .be gathered from the act itself."
2d. If we take the whole act, and compare its different provisions to reconcile them, this section must be construed as
granting a power to be exercised at the discretion of the corporation. Howell v. Lord Zouch, Plowd. 365; Doe ex d. Bywater v. Brandling, 7 Barn. & Cress. 643; Co. Lit. 381, a;
Opinion of Coleridge, J., in Rex v. Poor Law Com., 6 Ad. &
El. 7; Broom's Leg. Max. 253,254; 1 Kent's Com. 462; Pennington v. Cox, 2 Cranch, 33; U. States v. Fisher, Ibid. 358.
3d. If the words are not precise and clear, and such construction is given as will alone secure it from an absurd consequence, it must be taken as permissive, not mandatory.
Commonwealth v. Kimball, 24 Pick. 37; United Sta-es v.
Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358.
4th. In order 'that one clause shall not frustrate and destroy
the others, but explain and support them, this section must be
construed as permissive. Best, J., 4 Bingh. 196; Dwarris,
703, 704.
5th. The words of the act are plain and unambiguous. It
is "to be read without breaks or stops "; there are qualifying
words at the end of the section; they must operate on 'all the
precedent grants in the section. 2 Inst. 50; Dwarris, 704; 1
Stev. Elec. L. 21.
6th. It may be generally true, that, where a public body or
officer has been clothed by statute with power to do an act
which concerns the public interest, or the right of third persons, the execution of the power may be insisted on as a duty,
though the phraseology of the statute be permissive merely,
and not peremptory. City of New York v. Furze, 3 Hill, 612.
Yet if the exercise of that power is clearly intended by 'the
legislature to be discretionary in the public body or officer to
whom it is intrusted, the rule cannot apply. For no general

2SUPREME

COURT.
Mason et al. v. Fearson.

rule can be laid down upon this subject, further than that that
exposition ought to be adopted in this, as in other cases, which
carries into effect the true intent and object of the legislature
in the enactments. Story, J., in Minor et al. v. The Mechanics'
Bank of Alexandria, 1 Pet. 64.
In this case the intention is clear from "the cause, the reason, and remedy," from " the whole act itself," from "a comparison of the different sections and provisions," from "the
very words of the act," and because 11any other construction
would involve absurd consequences," and that intention was,
not to give a power which ihe corporation must, but which it
might, exercise.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
Several 'reasons have been assigned for the reversal of the
judgment in this case; but as we think one of them is well
founded, it is not necessary to examine the others. That one
is the sale of each of the twenty lots, assessed to the Washington Tontine Company, instead of selling the first two lots only,
they having been bid off for more than enough to pay the
taxes on the whole. The sale of all of them was, therefore,
unnecessary to insure the collection of all the taxes; and as
they brought but little beyond one fourth of their appraised
value, the sale of all was not only unnecessary, but a great sacrifice of property.
. It is'admitted by the city; which defends this action, that
the law authorized the sale of so many lots assessed to. the
same proprietor as would be sufficient to pay the taxes on all,
and there to stop. But at the same time, it is contended that
the law allowed a discretion to the city to sell each lot for the
tax on each, and that in the exercise of this discretion the sale
of all can be vindicated as legal.
We think otherwise. After careful examination, we are
satisfied that no such discretion was meant to be conferred,
under the circumstances of the present case. Thoagh the
ancestor of the plaintiffs in error became entitled to eleven of
the twenty lots sold as early as 1827, and paid the taxes on
them for two or three years, yet he never caused his name to
be entered in the city books as proprietor of them, nor obtained
any deed of them executed and recorded, so that the city might
see the change of title to him on the records, and tax them to
him, till November 13th,. 1844. Hence, in 1836-37, when
the taxes now in controversy were assessed, the city rightfully
taxed all these lots to the Tontine Company, and could sell
any of t-hem to pay the taxes imposed on all, against that company.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

257

lason et al. v. Pearson.

The ancestor of the plaintiffs could not complain of that
course, under his own neglect to perfect his title, so as to
have his name, rather than the name of the company, entered
on the tax-list as owner of eleven of the lots. Much less does
it comport with reason that the city should on this ground object to its own power to sell any of those lots to pay the taxes
assessed on all, when its officers had claimed them all to belong
to the company, and had assessed and sold them all as the
property of the company.
Rut, independent of this, a discretion to sell all is claimed
under the act of. Congress of 1824. In order to jiidge correctly
whether there is a good foundation for this discretion, it will
be necessary to examine briefly the history of the legal provisions on this point, and the provisions themselves.
Under the city charter, as amended May 4th, 1812 (2 Statutes at Large, p. 721, § S), "unimproved lots," "or so .much
thereof as may be necessary to pay such taxes, may be sold,"
for their payment.
On the 15th of May,' 1820, a new charter was given to the
city, which provided that ",real property, whether improved
or unimproved," "or so much thereof, not less than a lot,
(when the property upon which the tax has accrued is not less
than that quantity,) as may be necessary to pay any such taxes,"
"may be sold," &c. 3 Statutes at Large, p. 589, § 10.
In 1823, a decision was made by this court, in the case of
the Corporation of Washington v. Pratt, 8 Wheaton, 687, settling the construction of the laws as existing in 1812 on several
points in relation to the assessment and sale of lots for taxes;
and, among other things, holding on this particular point as
follows -- " But if taxes be due by one and the same individual in small sums upon many lots, and one lot, being set up
for sale, produces a sum adequate to the payment of all, the
whole arrears become paid off, and no excuse can then exist
The act of May 26th, 1824, was
for'inaking further sales."
then passed, which in some respects provided anew concerning
a part of the points settled in 1823, where the act or charter of
lS20 was similar to that of 181"2.
But on the poine now under consideration it made a special
provision in these words: - " And be it further enacted, that
it shall be lawful for the said corporation, where there §hall be
a number of lots assessed to the same person or persons, to sell
one or more of such lots for the taxes and expenses due on the
whole; and also to provide for the sale of any part of a lot for
the taxes and expenses due on said lot, or other lots assessed to
the same person, as may appear expedient, according to such
72

258

SUPREME COURT.
Mason et al. v. Fearson.

rules and regulations as the said corporation may prescribe."
(See Act of May 26th, 1824, § 4.)
The city contends, that this changed the construction given
to the law of 1812 by this court in 1823, or rather changed the
law of 1820, which was the same in substance as that of 1812,
and conferred a discretion to sell each lot for its own tax, or
only so many of several assessed to the same person as might
be necessary to pay all the taxes due from him.
But it will be seen that the language used in the last act, of
1824, was substantially the same on this subject as that in 1812
and 1820. The words used in the former acts, as to a sale of
all or a portion of the lots for the taxes dn all, had been recently adjudged by this court to require absolutely that the latter
course be pursued when a part sold for enough. And Congress, so far from appearing to wish an alteration of the law in
this particular, as just construed, seem to sanction it by declaring explicitly, as before, the existence of the power to sell a
part of the lots, and which power this-court had, under all the
circumstances, decided was imperative on the city. The chief
difference in this respect between the acts of 1812, 1820, and
1824 was, that, in the last, Congress used more clear and positive terms than before, when authorizing the sale of a part of the
lots for all the taxes, and added a material change, authorizing
them to sell, when "appearing expedient," even a part of one
lot. Evidently, by the sense and the locality in the sentence
of the expression "1as may appear expedient," they confined
any new discretion or expediency thus conferred to the new
provision for the sale of a Dart of a lot.
Was there any reason existing why we Bhould infer that
Congress meant to make any ottier change than this last in respect to such sales ?
The former provisions for selling only one or more lots, when
enough to pay the taxes on all belonging to the same owner
had existed so long, had been so positively adjudged by this
court to be imperative, and were so obviously just and necessary to prevent sacrifices and speculation, that Congress in
1824 might well entertain no disposition to alter them, but
rather to adopt and confirm the construction given by this court
in the previous year.
With the knowledge of our construction, like words being
again repeated by Congress, it may well be considered that a
like construction was intended, and was expected to be given
to those words. The only plausible argument which remains
to be considered against the design to make this power to sell
only enough to pay all the taxes mandatory, as it had before

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

Mason et al. v.

259

'earson.

been construed by this court, rests on the supposed incorrectness of the general rule of construction, as applied to the facts
here, which holds the expression "may" sell, or "it is lawful"
to sell, 'in
a particular way, to be imperative. But if we look
to the true test of the principle involved in the question, no
great doubt can remain. This general rule may seldom be
correct, in a popular sense, as to such words when used in contracts and private affairs. But under the circumstances existing here, it is founded on sound principles and numerous precedents.
The form of expression adopted here, it must be remembered,
is employed in laws, and not contracts, and of course, if a well
established construction had been before given to it in laws by
the courts under certain circumstances, it must be presumed to
have been well known, and intended here under like circumstances. What are these circumstances? Whenever it is provi.led that a corporation or officer "may " act ina certain way,
or it "shall be liwful" for them to act in a certain way, it
may be insisted on as a duty for them to act go, if the matter,
as here, is devolved on u public officer, and relates to the public or third persons.
Thus, in Rex & Regina v. Barlow, 2 Salkeld, 609, - Where
a statute directs the doing of a thing for the sake of justice or
the public good, the word 'may' is the same as the word
'shall'; thus, 23 Hen. 6 says the sheriff may take bail; this is
construed he shall, for he is compellable so to do." Carthew,
293.
On this, see further The King v. The Inhabitants of Derby,
Skinner, 370; Backwell's case, 1 Vernon, 152- 154; 2 Chitty, 251; Dwarris on Stat. 712; Newburgh T. Co. v. Miller,
5 Johns. Ch. 113; City of New York v. Furze, 3 Hill, 612,
614; Minor et al. v. The Mechanics' ,Bank, 1 Peters, 64.
Without going into more details, these cases fully sustain the
doctrine, that what a public corporation or officer is empowered
to do for others, and it is beneficial to them to have done, the
law holds he ought to do. The power is conferred for their
benefit, not his; and the intent, of the legislature, which is the
test in these cases, seems under such circumstances to have
been "to impose a positive and absolute duty." But, under
other circumstances, where the act to be done affects no third
persons, and is not clearly beneficial to them or the public, the
words "may" do an act, or it is "lawful" to do it, do not
mean "must," but rather indicate an intent in the legislature
to confer a discretionary power.- Malcom v. Rogers, 5 Cowen,
88; 1 Peters, 64; 5 Johns. Ch. 113.

260

SUPREME COURT.
Mason et al. v. Pearson.

So, in private contracts or trusts, such language may confer
a discretion. 5 Johns. Oh. 113. But in the case of a law
and of public officers, and as to acts affecting third persons, as
here, that the authority thus conferred must be construed to
be peremptory is not only manifest from the above precedents
and their analogies, but has been virtually settled by this court
in the 8th of Wheaton, before cited, on the act of 1812, which,
we have already seen, used language the -same in substance as
that of 1824 on this particular-point.
The argument that the owner of these lots need not have
suffered by all of them being sold, and at a low price, because
he might have redeemed them, has little force when the same
oversight, or accident, or misfortune, which prevented the seasonable payment of the tax, is likely to prevent the redemption,
and when this argument, if sound, would apply to any other
defect in the sale, and operate against the force of it, on the
ground that the owner might redeem.
But instead of such- loose constructive leniency towards a
purchaser under a special law, it is 'well settled that where a
tax title is to be made out by a party under such a law, as by
the defendant in this case, it must be done in all material particulars fully and clearly. Stead's Executors v. Course, 4
Cranch, 403; Waldron v. Tuttle, 3 N. Hamp. 340. In the
language of some of the cases, it must be done "strictly," "exactly," "with great strictness." 6 Wheaton, 127; 8 Wheaton,
683 ; 4 Peters, 359.
The purchaser, setting up a new title in hostility to the former
owner, is not to be favored, and should have looked into it
with care before buying, and not expect to. disturb or defeat
old rights of freehold without showing a rigid compliance with
all the material requisitions of the laws under which the sale
was made. Finally, it tends to fortify the view here adopted,
that the statutes in several States on the subject of such sales
allow only so many lots to be sold as will pay all the taxes
against the same owner, such course being manifestly the most
just. 4 Cranch, 403; 4 Wheaton, 81, note.
Judgment below reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the.County of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this couit, that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be,.and the same is hereby,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

261

Strader et al. v. Baldwin.

reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
award a venire facias de novo.

JACOB STRADER,

ROBERT BUCHANAN,

JOHN McCORiuICK, JOHN R.

CORAZI, JOSEPH SMITH, JADIES JOHNSON, AND GEORGE C. MILLER,
TRUSTEES OF THE COnIDIERCIAL BANK OF CINCINNATI, V. HENRY

BALDWIN.
Where the defendant pleaded his discharge under the Bankrupt Act of 1841 passed by
Congress, and the plea was allowed, the plaintiff eaunbt bring the case to this
court to be reviewed under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The defendant pleaded a privilege or exemption under a statute of the United States,
and the decision was in fIvor 6f it..
The case must, therefore, be dismissed, for want ofjurisdiction.

THIS case was brought up, from the Supreme Court of the
State of Ohio, within and for the County of Hamilton, by a
writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The case arose in this way.
Baldwin was a clerk in the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati.
In 1844, the trustees of the bank brought an action of assumpsit against him for $ 10,000. Baldwin pleaded, amongst other
matters, that he had received a discharge under the bankrupt
law passed by Congress. The plaintiffs filed a replication, that
the debt was contracted whilst Baldwin was acting in a fiduciary capacity, and therefore not discharged from the debt. The
defendant demurred to this replication, which demurrer was
sustained by the Superior Court, and also by the Supreme
Court of Ohio on error.
The plaintiffs then brought the case to this court, under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It was argued by 31r. Walker, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr. Lincoln, for the defendant in error.
The question of jurisdiction was not argued by either
counsel.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought here by a writ of error' to the Supreme
Court of Ohio.
As the power of this court to review the decisions of State
tribunals is limited to certain specified cases and conditions, the

