JANUARY TERM, 1850.

351

The United States v. Briggs.

seven, and consequently that the levy and sale of the sheriff
were without authority and void. Whereupon it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to
the said Circuit Court.

THE UNITED STATES V. EPHRAII'! BiRCs.
On the 2d of tLarch, 1.31, Congr-ess passed an act (4 Statutes at Large, 472), entitled
"An act to provide for the punishment of offences committed in cutting, destroying. or removinr live-oak or other timber or trees, reserved for naval purposes."
The act itself declxes, that every person who shall remove, &c, any live-oak or redcedar tree, or other timber, irom any other lands of the United States, shall be
puniqhed by fine and imprisonment.
The title of the act would indicate that timber reserved for naval purposes was meant
to be protected bwthis mode, and none other. But the enacting clause is general,
and therefore cutting and using of oak and hickory, or any other description of
timber trees from the public lands, is indictable, and punishable by fine and imprisonment.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Michigan, upon a certificate of division in opinion
between tl-judges thereof. It was before the court, and reported in 5 Howard, 208, and sent back because the point was
not distinctly certified.
On the 2d of March, 1831, Congress passed the following
act (4 Stat. at Large, 472):An Act to provide for the punishment of offences committed
in cutting, destroying, or removing live-oak or other timber
or trees, reserved for naval purposes.
"Sec. 1. That if any person or persons shall cut, or cause- or
procure to be cut, or aid, assist, or be employed in cutting, or
shall wantonly destroy, or cause or procure to be wantonly destroyed, or aid, assist, or be employed in wantonly destroying,
any live-oak or red-cedar tree or trees, or other timber, standing, growing, or being on any lands of the United States,
which, in pursuance of any law passed or /hereafter to be
passed, shall have b en reserved or purchased for the use of the
United States, for supplying or furnishing therefrom timber for'
the navy of the United States; or if any person or persons
shall remove, or cause or procure to be removed, or aid or
assist or be employed in removing, from any such lands which
shall have been reserved or purchased as aforesaid, any live-oak
or red-cedar tree or trees, or other timber, unless duly authorized so to do by order in writing of a competent officer, and for

352

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Briggs.

the use of the navy of the United States; or if any person or
persons shall cut, or cause or procure to be cut, or ai. or assist
or be erhployed in cutting, any live-oak or red-cedar tree or
trees, or other timber on, or shall remove, or cause or procure
to be removed, or aid or assist or be employed in removing,
any live-oak or red-cedar trees, or other timber, from any other
lands of the United States, acquired or to be hereafter acquired,
with intent to export, dispose of, use, or employ the same in any
manner whatsoever, other than for the use of the navy of the
United States; every such perscki or persons so offending, on
conviction thereof before any court having competent jurisdiction, shall, for every such offence, pay a fine not less than triple
the value of the tree or trees or timber so cut, destroyed, or removed, and shall be imprisoned not exceeding twelve months.
"Sec. 2. That if the master, owner, or consign'ee of any
ship or vessel shall knowingly take on board any timber cut on
lands which shall have been reserved or purchased as aforesaid,
without proper authority, and for the use of the navy of the
United States; or shall take on board any live-oak or red-cedar
timber cut on any other lands of the United States, with the
intent to transport the same to any port or place within the
United States, or to export the same to any foreign country,
the ship or vessel on board of which the same shall be taken,
transported, or seized, shall, with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, be wholly forfeited to the United States, and the captain
or master of such ship or vessel wherein the same shall have
been exported to any foreign country, against the provisions of
this act, shall forfeit and pay to the United States a sum not
exceeding one thousand dollars.
" Sec. 3. That all penalties and forfeitures incurred under
the provisions of this act shall be sued for, recovered, and distributed and accounted for, under the directions of the Secre.
tary of the Navy, and shall be paid over, one half to the informer or informers, it any, or captors where seized, and the
other half to the Commissioners of the Navy Pension Fund for
the use of, the said fund; and the commissioners of the said
fund are fiereby authorized to mitigate in whole or in part, and
on such terms and conditions as they shall deem proper, and
order in writing, any fine, penalty, or forfeiture incurred under
this act."
In June, 1846, the grand jury of the United States in Michigan indicted: Ephraim Briggs for entering upon the public lands
aiid cutting twenty white-oak trees and twenty hickory trees, &c.
The defeLd@nt at -first demurred, but afterwards pleaded not

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

353

The United States v. Briggs.

guilty, and the case went to trial. The jury found him guilty.
The defendant then moved in arrest of judgment, and to set
aside the verdict, for the following reasons: First. Because the facts set forth in the indictment in this
cause do not constitute a criminal offence, punishable by indictment, under the statutes of the United States.
Second. Because, under the statutes of the United States,
trespass on the public, lands, by cutting timber thereon, is in no
case au offence punishable criminally by indictment, but is a
mere civil trespass, and as such punishable only by action of
trespass at common law, or debt on the statute.
Third. Because the said indictment does not aver, nor was
there any evidence to show, that the lands on which said timber was cut was reserved or set apart for naval purposes, according to the provisions of the statutes of the United States.
Fourth. Because there was no proof on the trial of the said
cause that the timber cut consisted of live-oak or red-cedar
trees, nor is there any averment in said indictmefit that any
such trees were cut on the lands described in said indictment.
Fifth. Because such verdict is contrary to evidence and the
charge of the court.
Division of Opinion.
C

THu UNITED

STATES OF AMiERIC.A v. EPHRAIm BRIGGS.

"The motion of defendant in arrest of judgment, and for a
new trial in the case, coming on to be heard, and the same having been argued by counsel on either side, the opinions of the
court were opposed as to the point, 'whether the offence
charged and set forth in the indictment, of cutting, removing,
or using for aiy other than naval purposes, any trees or timber
standing, growing, or being on any lands belonging to the
United States, whether reserved for naval purposes or not, is,
under the statutes of the United States, an indictable offence,
and punishable by fine and imprisonment.'
"And it is ordered and directed, that this cause be certified to
the Supreme Court of the United States on the indictment and
trial, and the motion in arrest of judgment and for a new frial
in the case, in pursuance of the act of Congress in such case
made and provided."
The case was argued for the United States by Mr.Johnson
(Attorney-General), no counsel appearing for the defendant.
He contended, 1. That the said acts constitute an offence within the meaning of the act of 2d March, 1831, because it does embrace the
30 *

354

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Briggs.

cutting, &c., of timber from other .lands belonging to the
United States than those reserved for naval purposeq.
2. That it is an offence for which an indictment is a proper
remedy, and the party punishable by fine and imprisonment.
"Wherever a statute prohibits a matter of public grievance,
acts done contrary to it are misdemeanours at common law, and
as such punishable by indictment, unless the statute expressly
or impliedly excludes that remedy; and as to this, it is immaterial whether the statute imposes a particular penalty for
the offence or notor whether such penalty is embraced in the
same statute, or a subsequent one." 2 Hawk., ch. 25, sec. 4;
King v. Davis, Say. 163; Rex v. Boyall, 2 Burr. 832; Rex v.
Harris, 4 T. R. 205; King v. Sainsburj, Ibid. 457; Rex v.
Wright, 1 Burr. 543.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinioP of the court.
The defendant below was indicted for cutting, with intent
to appropriate to his own use, twenty white-oak trees and
twenty hickory trees of the United States standing on the
public lands. The jury found him guilty, and he moved in
arrest of judgment, because the offence charged was not punishable by indictment; on which motion, the Circuit Court
certify to this court as follows: =
" The motion of defendant in arrest of judgment, and for a
new trial in the case, coming on to be heard, and the same
having been argued by counsel on either side, the opinions of
the court were opposed as to the point,' 'whether the offence
charged and set forth in the indictment, of cutting, removing,
or using for any other than naval purposes, any trees or timber
standing, growing, or being on any lands belonging to the
United States, whether reserved for naval purposes or not, is,
under the statutes of the United States, an indictable offence,
and punishable by fine and imprisonment.'"
The case presented for our examination involves a true construction of the act of 2d March, 1891. By that act, any per,son, who shall cut and appropriate live-oak or red-cedar trees
reserved for naval purposes, is clearly indictable, and, on conviction, may be fined and imprisoned. We do not understand
this to be controverted. But the question here is, whether
the term "or other timber"' imposes the same penalty on those
who cut other timbers, such as oak or hickory trees. It is insisted by the reasons in arrest, that the only object of the act
was, to protect, by stringent penalties, timbers suited to shipbuilding and naval purposes,, and which had been reserved for
such public use; and that it is apparent from the act none other.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

355

The United St&tes v. Briggs.

were contemplated by Congress, as subject to protection and
within the description, but live-oak and red-cedar.
To which it is answered, on the part of the United States: " 1. That the said acts constitute an offence within the
meaning of the act of 2d March, 1831, because it does embrace the cutting, &c., of timber from other lands belonging to
the United States than those reserved for naval purposes.
"2. That it is an offence for which an indictment is the
proper remedy, and the party punishable by fine and imprisonment."
The caption of the act would indicate that timber reserved
for naval purposes was meant to be protected by this inode, and
none other. Bat the enacting clause is general, and not restricted to live-oak or red-cedar, nor to timber specially reserved for naval purposes; and therefore cutting and using
oak and hickory trees is indictable; and so the cutting and
using of any other description of timber trees from the public
lands would be equally indictable; and being so, the punishment by fine and imprisonment must follow in all cases,and thus we answer to the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Michigan, and on the point or question on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which
was certified to this court for its opinion,, agreeably to the act
of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this
court, that the offence charged and set forth in the indictment
in this cause, of cutting, removing, or using, for any other than
naval purposes, any trees or timber standing, growing, or being
on any lands belonging to the United States, whether reserved
for naval purposes or not, is, under the statutes of the United
States, an indictable offence, and punishable by fine and imprisonment; whereupon, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

