JANUARY TERM, 1850.

407

Townsend v. Jemison.
THOX1AS TOWNSEND,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v. ROBERT JEDIISONX, JR.

Where the cause of action accrued in the State of Mississippi, and suit was brought
upon it in the State of Alabama, a plea of the statute of limitations of Mississippi
was not a good plea; but the same was demur-rable, and the court sustained the
demurrer.
The rule is, that the statute of limitations of the country in which the suit is brought
may be pleaded to bar a recovery upon a contract made out of its political jurisdiction, and that the statute of kx loci coatractus cannot.
The obligations of a contract upon the parties to it, except in well-known eases, are
to he expounded by the lcx loc contracctis; but suits brought to enforce contracts,
either in the State where they were made or in the courts of other States,-are
subject to the remedies of the forum in which the suit is, including that of statutes
of limitation.
The eases of Leroy ?).Crowninshield, 2 Mason, 351, and Alc lmoyle v. Cohen, 13
Peters, 312, exanined and commented on.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District Court of the United States for the Middle District of
Alabama.
Townsend was a citizen of the State of Mississippi, and
Jemison of Alabama.
In September, 1844, Jemison brought a suit, in the District
Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama,
against Townsend, who was in Alabama.
The nature of the suit is explained in the following short
specification of claim, filed by the counsel for the plaintiff.
"This action is brought to recover damages for the nonperformance of an agreement made by the defendant with the
plaintiff, that if the plaintiff would procure, take up, and obtain
a note made by Robert Weir, A. F. Young, and the said defendant, and Henry Buchanan, for $ 4,000, dated Columbus,
April 12, 1839, payable nine months after the 24th of April,
1839, to the Mississippi Union Bank, at their banking-house in
Jackson, bearing ten per cent. interest after maturity, if not
punctually paid, but upon which note the said A. F. Young
was to pay the said bank $ 1,000; and would also procure,
take up, and obtain a note, made by the said defendant and A.
F. Young, Andrew Weir, and Henry Buchanan, dated Columbus, April 12, 1839, for $ 4,000, payable nine monihs after
the 24th of April, 1839, to the Mississippi Union Bank, at
its banking-house in Jackson, to bear ten per cent. interest
after maturity, if not punctually paid, but upon which note A.
F. Young was to pay $ 1,000; that he, the defendant, would
take up, procure, and obtain a note, made by John B. Jones,
Thomas Townsend (the said defendant), Eli Abbott, and Samuel D. Lauderdale, dated Columbus, Mississippi, May 24th,

408

SUPREME

COURT.

Townsend v. Jemison.

1839, for $ 9,806.50, payable six months after date to the Commercial Bank of Columbus, or order, at their bank; which
agreement the defendant wholly failed to perform, although the
plaintiff, upon his part, fully performed the said agreement.
Other counts will be added in the declaration.
"Attest:
ORABB & COCHRAN,
Plaintiff's Attorneys."
The declaration set forth the transaction with more particularity, and also contained the common money counts and an
account stated.
To the first count the plaintiff in error pleaded in bar; First, that the promise was unwritten, made in Mississippi, and
to be performed there, and was made more than three years before this suit; and that, by the statute of limitations of Mississippi, the right of action is barred upon such a promise after
three years. Secondly, the same matter, with an averment
that ihe cause of action accrued in Mississippi more than" three
years before this suit. To tlese- pleas there was a demurrer.
To this first'count the.plaint'ff in error further pleaded, as to
parcel thereof, non-assumysit, anid as to the residue, a former
action brought and judgment- recovered by the defendant in
error against him. * The defendant in error joined issue on
the parts of this plea respectively, to the court and to the
country.
To the whole declaration the plaintiff in error pleaded nonassumpsit, on which issue was joined; and also that the causes
of action accrued more than three years before suit, averring
himself to have been a citizen of Mississippi, and that the
promises were there made and there to be performed; and to
this plea the defendant in error demurred. '
In this state of the pleadings, the cause came on for trial, on
the 7th of December, 1846, when the following proceedings
were had.
"This day came said parties, by their attorneys, and the demurrer to the first three pleas' of the said defendant, by him
abovi pleaded, coming on to be heard, and having been fully
argued by counsel, and understood by the court, it is adjudged
by the court that the said first three pleas by the defendant
above pleaded, and the matters therer4 alleged, are insufficient
in law to bar the said plaintiff from having o maintaining his
said action against said defendant; and the court doth accordingly sustain the said demurrer. And as to so much of the
said fourth plea by the said defendant, by him above pleaded, as
alleged a former recovery of three thousand four hundred and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

409

Townsend v. Jemison.

fifty-one dollars and eighty-eight cents, in the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, on
account of the undertaking of the said defendant 'to pay three
thousand dollars, or any other part or parcel of the said note,
made by the said John B. Jones, Thomas Townsend, Eli Abbott, and Samuel D. Lauderdale, in consideration that the said
plaintiff would pay three thousand dollars, or any other part or
parcel of the note made by Thomas Townsend, A. F. Young,
Andrew Weir, and Henry Buchanan,' and set out at large in
said count, on which issue was joined to the court, the record
therein referred to being seen and inspected by the court, and
the same being fully considered, the court adjudged that there
is such a record, as alleged in said plea, of a recovery on the
promiise of the said Thomas Townsend to pay on the note of
the said John B. Jones, Thomas Townsend, Eli Abbott, and
Samuel D. Lauderdale, as mentioned in said plea, the like
amount that should be paid by plaintiff on the note of the said
Thomas Townsend, A. F. Young, Andrew Weir, and Henry
Buchanan. And as to the residue of said fourth plea, and
the fifth plea, upon which issue was taken to the country,
thereupon came a jury of good and lawful men, to wit, Amos
Briggs, and eleven others, who, being impanelled, tried, and
sworn the truth to say upon the issues joined, upon their oaths
do say, they find the issues in favor of the plaintiff, and assess
his damages at four thousand six hundred and forty-five dollars.
It is therefore considered by the court, that the plaintiff recover
of said defendant said sum of four thousand six hundred and
forty-five dollars, the damages by the jury assessed as aforesaid,
in manner and form aforesaid, together with the costs in this
behalf expended."
Townsend sued out a writ of error, and brought the case up
to this court.
It was argued by 1Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in error, and
31r. Lawrence and kr. Badger, for the defendant in error.
lar. Key.
The questions now presented for consideration arise from the
pleas of Townsend to the declaration.
To the first three pleas the plaintiff below demurred; and it
is submitted, that the court erred in sustaining this demurrer.
1. The substance of these pleas is the bar of the statute of
limitations of the State of Mississippi, and it is contended for the
plaintiff in error that they were valid pleas. The general principle must be admitted as settled, that, in personal contracts, the
lex loci contractus governs in all questions relating to the conVOL. IX.

35

410

SUPREME COURT.
Townsend v. Jemison.

struction or validity of the contract, in whatever country or
State the action may be brought. Laws of limitation, it has
been generally decided, affect the remedy, and the lexfori, or
the law of the place where the action is instituted, prevails.
But the question now presented is, whether these pleas are not
valid, the statute of Mississippi having completely run against
the plaintiff Jemison, the bar being perfected, and his remedy
in that State extinguished.
It is thought that this is an open question. The decisions
of this court, touching the general question as to the effect of
statutes of limitation, are to be found in the following cases:
Hawkins v. Barney, 5 Peters, 457; Bank of U. States v.
Donnally, 8 Peters, 361; McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Peters, 312.
The decisions in these cases will be found, upon examination,
not to have settled the present question: But see Leroy v.
Crowninshield, 2 Mason, 151; Bell v. Morrison, 1 Peters, 373;
Goodman v. Munks, S Porter, (Ala.) 84; Davis v. Minor and
Wife, 1 How. Miss. 184. It will be perceived by the two cases
last cited, that the highest court of the State of Alabama has
decided in favor of the validity of a plea of limitations of another State, when the bar has been perfected; and the High
Court of Errors- of the State of Mississippi has affirmed the
same principle. In Leroy v. Crowninshield, Judge Story felt
constrained, by the decisions of the courts of the States in
which the parties respectively resided, to decide the question
contrary to his own judgment; but the highest courts of the
States in which the parties to this suit are respectively resident
have decided in accordance with that judgment.
2. Are not these pleas within the lexfori of Alabama? It is
true they are not pleas of any statute of limitations of that
State, but they are framed in conformity with the decisions of
the Supreme Court of the State, which declares that a plea of
the statute of limitations of another State, if the bar of the statute has been perfected, is a valid plea in the State of Alabama.
Goodman v. Munks, before cited.
The power of the Supreme Court of the State to decide and
settle the law, as to what pleas should be good in the courts of
that State, cannot be questioned. The court below should
have been guided by this decision, and was bound to adopt it.
A fixed and received construction by a State court of its statute laws, must furnish the rule of decision to the Federal courts,
and it is immaterial whether the decisions of the State courts
are grounded upon statutes of the States, or form-a part of the
unwritten law; and such decisions are entitled to the same
respect as those which are given on the construction of local

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

411

Townsend v. Jemison.

statutes. Henderson and Wife v. Griffin, 5 Peters, 154; Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheaton, 153; Leroy v. Crowninshield, 2
Mason, 151.
The decision of a question of local law by the highest tribunal of a State is considered final by this court. Rowan et
al. v. Runnels, 5 Howard, 134. It is submitted, therefore, that
the first three pleas are good, according to the settled law of
Alabama.
3. The plaintiff in error contends, that the fourth plea should
have been adjudged a bar to the whole action in the court below. The plea states, that, upon the identical cause of action,
a suit had been instituted by the plaintiff below in a court of
competent jurisdiction in the State of Mississippi. A judgment
was obtained in favor of said plaintiff, and was subsequently
paid and satisfied.
A judgment obtained in one State is conclusive in every
other State, and extinguishes the original ground of action.
Green v. Sarmiento, Pet. C. C. 74.
It cannot be contended that the judgment referred to applied
to a part only of the said Jemison's claim. The record shows,
that the whole claim was included in the suit in Mississippi.
But, admitting the suit to have been brought for a portion only,
still the same principle applies; the'cause of action was founded
upon one promise. A plaintiff cannot divide one entire cause
of action, so as to maintain two suits upon it, without the defendant's consent; if he attempt so to do, a recovery in the
first suit, though for less than his whole demand, is a bar to the
second. Ingraham v. Hall, 11 Serg. & Rawle, 78; Crips'v.
Talvan~e, 4 McCord, 20; Smith v. Jones, 15 Johns. 229;
Mandexille v. Welch, 5 Wheaton, 277; Tiernan v. Jackson, 5
Pet. 580; Shankland v. Corp. oft Washington, Ibid. 390.
If it be contended that the judgment obtained in Mississippi
was pleaded in the said fourth plea only to a portion of the
declaration, and that it was not Pleaded in bar of the whole action, and that the point was not presented to the court below,
and that this court will not reverse the judgment upon a point
which was not presented for the consideration of the court, I
refer to Stephen on Pleading, pp. 117, 118, 119, 120, 144, 145,
146; Slacum v. Pomery, 6 Cranch, 221; Cohens v. State of
Virginia, 6 Wheaton, 409, 410; United States v. Carlton, 1
Gall. 400.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended,
First, that the three pleas of the statute of limitations were
bad in law, and therefore were properly overruled by the court.

SUPREME COURT.
Townsend v. Jemison.

The limitation of actions by statute, affecting only the remedy
and not the merits, furnishes a rule of decision only in the forum
of that country which makes the statute, and not touching the
merits, nor being any part of the contract, cannot be extended
,to the courts of another country. Williams v. Jones, 13 East,
439; McElmoyle v: Cohen, 13 Pet. 312; Story's Confl. of
Laws, .§§ 576 to 582.
The statute of Mississippi is merely a statute of limitations,
affects the remedy or right of action only, and does not extinguish the debt, the claim or title ipso facto, and make it a nullity. This appears both from the plea and from the statute
itself. Miss. Code, 825, 828.
Secondly. If in any case the statute of Mississippi could be
used to affect the action in Alabama, it must be where the party
sued had always been, from the time the cause of action accrued, until the bar became complete, within the jurisdiction,
and liable to the process, of the courts of Mississippi. But the
pleas here do not show this, the averment being, ", that, on the
1st of January, 1839, he wras, and from thence hitherto hath
been, and still is, a resident.and citizefi of the State of Mississippi, and not elsewhere." But residence and actual presence
are not in law identical. Story's Confl. of Laws, §§ 46, 47.
Absence from a State does not implyloss either of citizen'ship or residence ; whether either is lost depends upon the intent of the party, -and other matters. If the absence be temporary, and with an intent to return, no loss of citizenship or resideice follows. A judge of this court while in Washington
during the term, a gentleman visiting a watering-place in another State during the summer, a merchant wisiting New York
to purchase goods, a member of Congress attending a session
of the Senate or House, are all and each, during the whole
time of such temporary absence, citizens, and in law residents,
of the States in which they have their permanent domicil.
It was incumbent upon the plaintiff in error, therefore, to
show by precise and accurate averment, not that he was a citizen and resident, but that he was not in fact absent from his
residence for three years from the time the -cause of action accrued, and therefore for the whole time amenable to process
under the law of Mississippi.
If, then, 'consistently with the averment in the plea, he
might have been absent for a day, the plea is bad; but here,
consistently with his averment, he might have been absent for
the whole thrge years.
Thirdly. That upon the record nothing" was submitted to
the jury but what, according to- the state of the pleading, ought

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

413

Townsend v. Jemison.

to have been submitted, and, according to strict technical rules,
must have been submitted; that it does not appear, and will
not be intended, that any damages were given on account of
matters out of the issues, or which should have been excluded
from consideration by reason of the judgment given by the
court upon the plea of former recovery, or the state of the
pleadings.
Mr.
T

Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
his suit has been brought here from the District Court of
the United States for the, Middle District of Alabama. The
defendant in the court below, appellant here, besides other
pleas, pleaded that the cause of action accrued in Mississippi
more than three years before the suit was brought; and that
the Mississippi statute of limitations barred a recovery in the
District Court of Alabama. The plaintiff demurred to the plea.
The court sustained the demurrer.
We do not think it necessary to do more than to decide this
point in the case.
The rule in the courts of the United States, in respect to
pleas of the statutes of limitation has always been, that they
strictly affect the remedy, and not the merits. .In the case of
McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Peters, 312, this point was raised, and
so decided. All of the judges were present and assented. The
fullest examination was then made of all the authorities upon
the subject, in connection with the diversities of opinion among
jurists about it, and of all those considerations which have induced legislatures to interfere and place a limitation upon the
bringing of actions.
We thought then, and still, think, that it has become a formulary in international jurisprudence, that all suits must be
brought within the period prescribed by the local law of the
country where the suit is brought, - the lex fori; otherwise
the suit would be barred, unless the plaintiff can bring himself
within one of the exceptions of the statute, if that is pleaded
by the defendant. This rule is* as fully recognized in foreign
jurisprudence as it is in the common law. We then referred to
authorities in the common law, and to a summary of them in
foreign jurisprudence. Burge's Com: on Col. and For. Laws.
They were subsequently cited, with others besides, in the second edition of the Conflict of Laws, 493. Among them will be
found the case of Leroy v. Crowninshield, 2 Mason, 151, so
much relied upon by the counsel in this case.
Neither the learned examination made in that case of the
reasoning of jurists, nor the final conclusion of the judgq, in
35Z

414

SUPREME COURT.
Townsend v. Jemison.

opposition to his own inclinatiofis, escaped our attention. Indeed, he was here to reviev them, with those of us now in the
court who had the happiness and benefit of being associated
with him. He did so with the same sense of judicial obligation for the maxim, Stare decisis et non quieta movere, which
marked his official career. His language in the case in Mason
fully illustrates it: -" But I do not sit here to consider what
in theory ought to be the true doctrines of the law, following
them out upon principles of philosophy and juridical reasoning.
My humbler and safer duty is to administe? the law as I find it,
and to follow in the path of authority, where it is clearly defined, even though that path may have been explored by guides
--in whose judgment the most implicit confidence migLt not
have been originally reposed." Then follows this declaration:
-"It does appear to me that the question now before the
court has been settled, so far as it could be, by authorities
which the court is-bound to respect." The error, if any has
been committed, is too strongly engrafted into the law to be
removed without the interposition of some superior authority.
Then, in support of this declaration, he cites Huberus,'Yoet,
Pothier, and Lord Kames, and adjudications from English and
American courts, to show that, whatever may have been, the
differences of opinion among jurists, the uniform administration
of the law has been, that the lea loci contractus expounds the
obligations of contracts, and that statutes of limitation prescribing a time after which a plaintiff shall not recover, unless he
can bring himself within its exceptions, appertain ad tempus et
modum actionis -instituendce and not ad valorem contractus.
Williams v. Jones, 13 East, 439; Nash v. Tupper, 1 Caines,
A02; Rtuggles v. Keeler, 3 Johns. 263; Pearsall v. Dwight, 2
Mass. 84; Decouche v. Savetier, 3 Johns. Ch. 190, 218; McCluny v. Silliman, 3 Peters, 276; Hawkins v. Barney, 5 Peters,
457; Bank of the United States v. Donnally, .8 Peters, 361;
MeElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Peters, 312.
There is nothing in Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheaton, 361, in
conflict with what this court decided in the four last-mentioned
cases. Its action upon the point has been uniform and decisive.
In cases before and since decided in England, it will be found
there has been no fluctuation in the rule in the courts there.
The rule is, that the statute of limitations of the country in
which the suit is brought may be pleaded to bar a recovery
upon a contract made out of its political jurisdiction, and that
the limitation of the le.v loci contractus cannot be. 2 Bingham,
New-Cases, 202, 211; Don v. Lippmann, 5 Clark & Fin. 1, 16,
17. It has become; as we have already said, a fixed rule of the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

411

Townsend v. Jemison.

jus gentium privatum, unalterable, in our opinion, either in
England or in the States of the United States, except by legislative enactment.
We will not enter at large into the learning and philosophy
of the question. We remember the caution given by Lord
Stair in the supplement to his Institutes (p. 852), about citing as
authorities the works and public'ations of foreign jurists. It is
appropriate to the occasion, having been written to correct a
mistake of Lord Tenterden, to whom no praise could be given
which would not be deserved by his equally distinguished contemporary, Judge Story. Lord Stair ays, -" There is in Abbotts Law of Shipping (5th edition, p. 365) a singular mistake; and, considering the justly eminent character of the
learned author for extensive, sound, and practical knowledge
of the English -law, one which ought to operate as a lesson on
this side of the Tweed, as well as on the other, to be a little
cautious in citing the works and publications of foreign jurists,
since, to comprehend their bearings, such a knowledge of the
foreign law as is scarcely attainable is absolutely requisite. It
is magnificent to array authorities, but somewhat humiliating
to be detected in errors concerning them; -yet how can errors be avoided in such a case, when every day's experience
warns us of the prodigious study necessary to the attainment
of proficiency in our own law? My object in adverting to the
mistake in the work referred to is, not to depreciate the author,
for whom I entertain: unfeigned respect, but to show that, since
even so justly distinguished a lawyer fails when he travels beyond the limits'of his own code, the attempt must be infinitely
hazardous with others."
We will how venture to suggest the causes which misled the
learned judge in Leroy v. Crowninshield into a conclusion, that,
if the question before him had been entirely new, his.inclination would strongly lead him to declare, that where all remedies are barred or discharged by the le'c loci contractus, and
have operated upon the case, then the bar may be pleaded in a
foreign tribunal, to repel any suit brought to enforce the debt.
. We remark, first, that only a few of the civilians who have
written upon the point differ from the rule, that statuies of limitation relate to the remedy and not to the contract. .If there is
any case, either in our own or the English courts, in which the
point is more discussed than it is in Leroy v. Crowninshield,
,we are not acquainted with it. In every case but one, either
in England or in the United States, in which the point has
since been made, that case has been mentioned, and it has carried some of our own judges to a result which Judge Story
himself did not venture to support.

416

SUPREME COURT.
Townsend v. Jemison.

We do not find him pressing his argument in Leroy v.
Crowninshield in the Conflict of Laws, in which it might have
been appropriately done, if his doubts, for so he calls them, had
not been removed. Twenty years had then passed between
them. In all that time, when so much had been qdded to his
learning, really great before, that by common consent he was
estimated in jurisprudence par summis, we find him, in the
Conflict. of Laws, stating the law upon the point, in opposition
to his former doubts, not in deference to authority alone, but
from declared conviction.
The point had been examined by him in Leroy v. Crowninshield without any consideration of other admitted maxims of
international jurisprudence, having a direct bearing upon the
subject. Among others, that the obligation of every law is
confined to the State in which it is e~tablished, that it cap
only attach upon those who are its subjects, and upon others
who are within the territorial jurisdiction of the State; that
debtors can only be sued in the courts of the jurisdiction where
they are; that all courts must judge in respect to remedies
from their own laws, except when conventionally, or from the
decisions of courts, a comity has beeri established between
States to enforce in the courts of each a particular law or principle. When there is no positive rule, affirming, denying, or
restraining the operation of foreign laws, courts establish a
comity for such as are not repugnant to the policy or in conflict with the laws of the State from which they derive their
organization. We are not aware, except as it has been Drought
to our notice by two cases cited in the argument of this cause,
that it has ever been done, either to give or to take away remedies from suitors, when there is a law of the State where the
suit is brought which regulates remedies. But for the loundation of comity, the manner of its exercise, and the extent to
which courts can allowably carry it, we refer to the case of the
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 519, 589; Conflict of
Laws, Comity.
From what has just been said, it must be seen, when it is
claimed that statutes of limitation operate to extinguish a contract, and for that reason the statute of the State in which the
contract was made may be pleaded in a foreign court, that it is
a point not standing alone, disconnected from other received
maxims of international jurisprudence. And it may well be
asked, before .it is determined otherwise, whether contracts by
force of the different statutes of limitation in States are not exceptions from the general rule of the lex loci contractas. There
are such exceptions for dissolving and discharging contracts out

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

417

Townsend v. Jemison.

of the jurisdiction in which they were made. The limitations of
remedies, and the forms and modes of suit, make such an exception. Conl. of Laws, 271, and 524 to 527. We may then
infer that the doubts expressed in Leroy v. Crowninshield
wvotild have been withheld, if the point had been considered in
the connection we have mentioned.
We have found, too, that several of the civilians who wrote
upon the question did so without having kept in mind- the difference between the positive and negative prescription of the
civil law. In doing so, some of them - not regarding the
latter in its more extended signification as including all those
bars or exceptions of law or of fact which may be opposed to
the prosecution of a claim, as well out of the jurisdiction in
which a contract was made as in it -were led to the conclusion, that the prescription was a part of the contract, and not the
denial of a remedy for its enforcement. It may be as well here
to state the difference between the two prescriptions in the
civil law. Positive, or the Roman usucaptio, is the acquisition
of property, real or personal, immovable or movable, by the
continued possession of the acquirer for such a time as is described by the law to be sufficient. Erskine's Inst.- 556.
"Adjeetio dorninji per continuationem possessionis temporis
legi definiti." Dig. 3.
Negative prescription is the loss or forfeiture of a right, by
the proprietor's neglecting to exercise or prosecute it during
the whole period which the law hath declared to be sufficient
to infer the- loss of it. It includes the former, and applies also
to all those demands which are the subject of personal actions.
Erskine's Inst. 560, and 3 Burge, 26.
Most of the civilians, however, did not lose sight of the differences between these prescriptions, and if their reasons for
doing so had been taken as a guide, instead of some expressions
used by them, in respect to what may be presumed as to the
extinction or payment of a claim, while the plea in bar is pending, we do not think that any doubt would have been expressed concerning the correctness of their other conclusion,
that statutes of limitation in suits'upon .contracts only relate to
the remedy. But that was not done, and, from some expressions of Pothier and Lord Kames, it was said, C"If the statute
of limitations does create, proprio vigore, a presumption of the
extinction or payment of the debt, which all nations ought to
regard, it is not easy to see why the presumption of such payment, thus arising from the ler loci contractus,should not be as
6onclusive in eve ry other place as in the place-of the contract."
And that was said in Leroy v. Crowninshield, in opposition to

418

SUPREME COURT.
Townsend v. Jemison.

the declaration of both of those writers, that in any other place
than that of the contract such a presumption could not be made
to defeat a law providing for proceedings upon sults. Here,
turning aside for an instant from our main purpose, we find the
beginning or source of those constructions of the English statutes of limitation which almost made therh useless for the accomplishment of their end. Within a few.years, the abuses of
such constructions have been much corrected, and we are now,
in the English and American courts, nearer to the legislative
intent of such enactments.
But neither Pothier nor Lord Kames meant to be understood, that the theory of statutes of limitation purported to afford positive presumptions of payment and extinction of contracts, according to the laws of the place where' they are
made. The extract which was made from Pothier shows his
meaning is, that, when the statute of limitations has been
pleaded by a defendant, the presumption is in his favor that he
has extinguished and discharged his contract, until the plaintiff
overcomes it by proof that he is within one of those exceptions
of the statute which takes it out of the time after which he
cannot bring a suit to enforce judicially the obligation of the
defendant. The extract from Lord Kames only shows what
may be done in Scotland when a process has been brought for
payment of an.English debt, after the English prescription has
taken place.- The English statute cannot be pleaded in Scotland in such a case, but, according to the law of that forum, it
may be pleaded that the debt is presumed to have been paid.
And it makes an issue, in which the plaintiff in the suit iiay
show that such a presumption does not apply to his demand;
and that without any regard to the prescripti6n of time in the
English statute of limitation. It is upon this presumption of
payment that the conclusion in Leroy v. Crowninshield was
reached, and as it is now universally admitted that it is not a
correct theory for the administration of statutes of limitation,
we may say it was in fact because that theory was assumed in
that case that doubts in it were expressed, contrary to the judgment which was given, in submission to what was admitted to
be the law of the case. What we have said may serve a good
purpose. It is pertinent to the point raised by the pleading in
the case before us, and in our judgment there is no error in
the District Court's having sustained the demurrer.
Before concluding, we will remark that nothing has been
said in this case at all in conflict with what was said by this
court in Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheaton, 361. The distinctions
made by us here between statutes giving a right to property

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

419

Townsend v. Jemison.

from possession for a certain time, and such as only take away
remedies for the recovery of property after a certain time has
passed, confirm it. In Shelby v. Guy this court declared that,
as by the laws of Virginia five years' bon~fide possession of a
slave constitutes a good title upon which the possessor may recover in detinue, such a title may be set up by the vendee of
such possessor in the courts of Tennessee as a defence to a
suit brought by a third party in those courts. The same had
been previously ruled in this court in Brent v. Chapman, 5
Cranch, 358; and it is the rule in all cases where it is declared
by statute that all rights to debts due more than a prescribed
term of years shall be deemed extinguished, find that all titles
to real and personal property not pressed within the prescribed
time shall give ownership to an adverse possessor. Such a
law, though one of limitation, goes directly to the extinguishment of the debt, claim; or right, and is not a bar to the remedy. Lincoln v. Battelle, 6 Wend. 475. Confl. of Laws, 582.
In Lincoln v. Battelle, 6 Wend, 475, the same doctrine was
held. It is stated in the Conflict of Laws, 58%, to be a settled
point. The courts of Louisiana act upon it. We could cite
other instances in which it has been announced in American
courts of the last resort. In the cases of De la Vega v. Vianna,
1 Barn. & Adol. 284, and the British Linen Company v. Drummond, 10 Barn. & Cres. 903, it is said, that, if a French bill of
exchange is sued in England, it must be sued on according to
the laws of England, and there the English statute of limitations would form a bar to the demand if the bill had been due
for more than six years. In the case of Don v. Lippmann, 5
Clark & Fin. 1, it was admitted by the very learned counsel
who argued that case for the defendants in error, that, though
the lawv for expounding a contract was the law of the place
in which it was made, the remedy for enforcing it must be the
law of the place in which it is sued. In that case will be
found, in the argument of Lord Brougham before the House of
Lords, his declaration of the same doctrine, sustained by very
cogent reasoning, drawn from what is the actual intent of the
parties to a-contract when it is.made, and from the inconveniences of pursuing a different course. In Beckford and others
v. Wade, 17 Vesey, 87, Sir William Grant, acknowledging the
rule, makes the distinction between statutes merely barring the
legal remedy and such as prohibit a suit from being brought
after a specified time. It was a case arising under the possessory law of Jamaica, which converts a possession for seven
years under a deed, will, or other conveyance, into a positive
absolute title, against all the world,- without exceptions in

420

SUPREME COURT.
Townsend v. Jemison.

favor of any one or any right, however a party may have been
situated during that time, or whatever his previous right of
property may have been. There is a statute of the same kind
in Rhode Island. 2 R. I. Laws, 363, 364, ed. 1822. In Tennessee there is an act in some respects similar to the possessory
law of Jamaica; it gives an indefeasible title in fee simple to
lands of which a person has had possession for seven years, excepting only from its operation infants, feme coverts, non compotes mentis, persons imprisoned or beyond the limits of the
United States and the Territories thereof, and the heirs of the
excepted, provided they bring actions within three years after
they have a right to sue. Act of November 16, 1817, ch. 28,
§§ 1, 2. So in North Carolina, there is a provision in the act
of 1715, ch. 17, § 2, with the same exceptions as in the act of
Tennessee, the latter being probably copied substantially from
the former. Thirty years' possession in Louisiana prescribes
land, though possessed without title and maidfde.
We have mentioned those' acts in our own States, only for
the purpose of showing the difference between statutes giving
title from possession, and such as only limit the bringing of
suits. It not unfrequently happens in legislation, that such sections are found in statutes for the limitation of actions. It is
in fact because they have been overlooked, that the distinction
between them has not been recognized as much as it ought to
have been in the discussion of the point, whether a certain time
assigned by a statute, within which an action must be brought,
is a part of the contract, or solely the remedy. The rule in
such a case is, that the obligations of the contract upon the
parties to it, except in well-known cases, are to be expounded
by the lex loci contractus. Suits brought to enforce contracts,
either in the State where they were made, or in the courts of
other States, are subject to the remedies of the forum in which
the suit is, including that of statutes of limitation.
Judgment affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said District Court in thig cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs, and damages
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

