JANUARY TERM, 1850.

619

Marriott v. Brune et al.

to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court, that Tampico was a foreign port within the meaning of the act of Congress of. July 30, 1846, entitled "An act
reducing the duties on imports, and for other purposes," and
that the goods, wares, and merchandise as set forth and described in the record were liable to the duties charged upon
them under said act of Congress. Whereupon it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to
the said Circuit Court.

WILLIAx

H.

MARRIOTT, PLAINTIFF

IN

ERROR,

V.

FREDERICK W.

BRUNE, J6mN C. BRUNE, AND WILLIAx H. BRUNE, COPARTNERS,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM oF F. W. BRUNE & SoNs.
By the eleventh section of the act of Congress passed on the 30th of July, 1846
(Stat. at Large, Pamphlet, page 46), the duties upon imported sugar are fixed at
thirty per cent. ad va.zkrent.
The true construction of this law is, tat the duty should he charged only upon that
quantity of sugar and molasses which arrives in our ports, and not upon the quantity which appears by the invoice to have been shipped; an allowance being proper
for leakage.
The proviso in the eighth section, viz. "that under no circumstance shall the duty be
assessed upon an amount less than the invoice value," is not in hostility with the
above construction, because the proviso refers only to the price, and not to the
quantity.
A protest made -afterthe payment of the duties charged, and after the case had been
closed up, will not enable a party to recover back the money from the collector;
but if the protest be made in a single case, with a design to include subsequent
cases, and the money remains in the hands of the collector without being paid into
the treasury, and it was so understood by all parties, such a protest will entitle the
importer to recover the money from the collector.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland.
It was an action of assunrpsit brought by F. W. Brune &
Sons against William H. Marriott, the collector of the port of
Baltimore, to recover back certain duties upon importations of
sugar and molasses, which, it was alleged, had been illegally
charged, and paid under protest.
The importations were made in various vessels, and at various times, between the 2d of February, 1847, and the 4th of
November, 1848.
On the 3d of February, 1847, the Secretary of the Treasury
addressed to Mr. Marriott the following letter -

620

SUPREME COURT.
Marriott v. Brune et al.

1, Treasury Department,February 3d, 1847.
"Sn, - For your information and government, in regard to
allowances to be made for deficiencies and leakage on imports,
where quantities are ascertained by weighing, gauging, or
measuring, I transmit a copy of my instructions to the collector of New Orleans, of the 30th ultimo, fixing the principles on
which said allowances are to be made.
"I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"(Signed,)
R. J. WALKR., Secretaryof the Treasury.
"Wk. H. M uoToTn,
Esq., Collector of the Customs, Baltimore.
The copy of the instructions referred to in the above letter
was as follows: " Treasury Department, January30th, 1847.
-In reference to the subject stated ip your letter of the
7th instant, respecting allowances for deficiencies and invoice
value, I would remark, that the law makes no distinction between articles subject heretofore to spebific rates of duty, but
now liable to ad valorem duty, in the mode of ascertaining
quantities with a view to 'fx the values on which the duties
are to be assessed. Whatever allowa-ce, therefore, would have
been made under former laws on articles subject to specific
duty, would inure under eisting laws on articles of the same
description now liable to ad valorem rates of duty. Consequently, where the specific duty was heretofore levied on the
actual quantity landed, as ascertained from actual weighing,
gauging, or measuring, the same course is to be pursued in regard
to the same description of articles under existing rates of duty.
"If, therefore, the quantity of any article falls short of the
amount given in the invoice, on due ascertainment as before
stated, an abatement of the duties to the extent of the deficiency should be made. If, on the contrary, it be found to exceed the quantity stated in the invoice, the aggregate cost or
value must be made to correspond with such increase, and the
duties estimated and assessed accordingly.
"The allo*ances authorized by the 58th and 59th sections of
the act of 2d March, 1799, chap. 128, to which you refer, are
still to be allowed. It is therefore to be observed, that the allowance made in the 59th section, of two per cent. for leakage,
applies solely to the case of liquors known in commerce as
such, and as contradistinguished from liquids of any other description.
"I arh, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"R. J. WALKER, Secretary of the Treasury.
"DENis PmEuR, Collector of the Customs, New Orleans."
"m,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

621

Marriott v. Brune et a.

On the 24th of March, 1847, the Treasury Department issued
the following circular, through the medium of the telegraph: "E. Mag. Telegraph, March 24; 1847, Washington.
By direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, yoiu
are requested to make no allowances for deficiencies to invoices
until further advised.
"(Signed,)
MC. YOUNG, Chief Clerk.
"SIR, -

"L.

M. CHASTEAU,

U. S. Tel."

On the same day, the following circular was transmitted
through the post-office: Circularto Collectors and other Ofjfcers -ofthe Customs.
" Treasury Department, March 24, 1847.
"The attention of the Department having been specially
called to the subject of allowances for deficiency, drainage,
leakage, and breakage, under the existing laws, and particularly
in reference to the provisions of the 58th and 59th sections of
the act of 2d March, 1799, it is decided that in all cases where
allowances are claimed under said sections, or either of them,
the appraisers, or other proper officers, shall first ascertain
whether any deficiency, damage, leakage, or breakage has occurred during the voyage of importation, by stress of weather
or other accident at sea, and if so, and the actual- leakage, deficiency, oi breakage cannot be otherwise ascertained, then to
make the allowance as the case may be, for draught, tar6; leakage, or breakage, to the extent authorized by said sections; but
if said damage, deficiency, leakage, or breakage, so occurring
as before mentioned, shall be found by said appraisers or other
officers to be less than the amount authorized by said sections,
then the allowance shall only be for the actual, damage, deficiency, leakage, or breakage; and if the amount be ascertainezi
to be actually greater than the amount allowed in said sections,
the actual damage, deficiency, -leakage, or breakage shall still
be allowed, subject to limitations and restrictions imposed by
former circulars.
"It must be remembered that draught can be allowed only
on articles imported in bulk, and tare on articles imported in
casks, barrels, bags, boxes, or other packages, and leakage in
the case of liquors; but when there is an allowance for tare,
draught, leakage, or breakage, it must be confined to a separate
allowance for one of them, and cannot be extended to two or
more.
"Under the 58th section, the allowances for draught or tare

622

SUPREME COURT.
Marriott v. Brune et al.

are only permitted on 'articles subject to duty by weight';
and under the 59th section, the allowance for leakage and breakage is confined to liquors I subject to duty by the gallon ' ; and
there are no duties imposed by the act approved 30th July,
1836, either by weight or gallon; it is an extremely liberal
construction to allow in any case any operation whatever to
those sections, even to the limited extent permitted by these
instructions.
"(Signed,)
R. J. WALKER, Secretary of the Treasury."
On the 9th of April, 1847, Brune & Sons addressed the following protest to the collector at Baltimore: "Baltimore, 9th April, 1847.
"GEN. Wm. H. MAmuOTT, Collector of the Portof Baltimore.

"Dear Sir, - Having been informed that it is the intention
of the Secretary of the Treasury not to make allowance on the
payment of duties on such articles as may result here less in
quantity, from loss in weight or leakage, than at the time of
shipment, for instance, sugar, molasses, &c., and on which a
dutyad valorem of the invoice is exacted, we hereby protest
against the payment of such entire amount of duty, being of
opinion that the law at present in force authorizes an allowance
for actual loss in weight or gauge, as shown by the difference
in the invoice and the returns of the weighers and gaugers of
such cargoes after delivery in this port.
*"We desire that this protest should extend to all our importations of sugar and molasses since the operation of the present
tariff, viz.: -

Water Witch, from Aricibo, entered 17th November, 1846.
J. E. Ridgway, from Aricibo, entered 8rth February, 1847.
Juliet, from St. Thomas, entered 15th February, 1847.
United States, from Ponce, entered 26th February, 1847.
San Jacinto, from Havana, entered 26th February,.1847.
Creed, from Cardinas, entered 1st March, 1847.
At New York, 0. Thompson, from Aricibo, entered 3d March,
1847.
At New York, Sophia, from Ponce, entered 4th March, 1847.
At New York, Sarah Adams, from Ponce, entered 9th March,
1847.
At New York, Seboris, from Mayaguez, entered 10th March,
1847.
Francis Partridge, from Ponce, entered 2d April, 1847; and
Oceola, from Mayaguez, entered this day.
"The protest upon our previous importations was not made

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

623

Marriott v. Br'une et al.

at the time of entry, because we were informed that a fair allowance would be made, but regret now to learn that the original instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury have been
countermanded. We are credibly informed that allowances
have, in cases similar to the above, actually been made in
neighbouring places, and we think ourselves entitled to equal
consideration.
"We have the honor to be, dear Sir, your most obedient
servants,
"(Signed,)
F. W. BRuNE & SoNs."
On the 28th of June, 1847, Brune & Sons addressed the following letter to the Secretary of the Treasury: "Baltimore, Jrune 28th. 1847.
"Sin, -We
are informed by-the collector of the customs
of this port, that he will refund us, on our importations of molasses, the differences of duty calculated at thirty per cent. ad
valorem on invoice amount, and what the same would be, taking the net gauge of the casks here as the basis; in other
words, allowing for the loss of molasses on the voyage. The
collector says, that he will make this return on importations
made from the 1st of May last. Now, we have been protesting
against the full duty, which has been exacted from us since a
length of time, and we would respectfully inquire whether, in
your opinion, we are not entitled to a similar return on all our
importatiorls since the 1st of December last, when the present
tariff,went into bperatiou. If such is your decision, will you
direct instructions to that effect to be given to the collector?
"We would further respectfully ask whether you dd not
think the duty upon sugar (especially Muscovado, which from
its nature is subject to a considerable loss on the voyage) should
be estimated in the sathe manner as that on molasses; namely,
calculating thirty cents ad valorem on the cost .of the weight
landed here, not on the weight shipped; thus making an allowance for an unavoidable drainage, or rather only charging
duty on the pounds of sugar actually brought into the country,
and into consumption.
"Hoping you will favor us with an answer to our foregoing
inquiries, we remain, &c., &c."
To which letter the following reply was received :"Treasury Department,August 9thi . 1847.
" GENT..mEN :- In reply to your letter of the- 6tn instant,
covering a copy of your former letter of the 28th of June last,

SUPREME COURT.
Marriott v. Brune et aL

asking to have the principles of the circular of the 27th of May
last applied in the case of importations of molasses made prior
to the date of said circular, I beg respectfully to refer you to
the inclosed copy of the decision of the Department on a similar application from Moses Taylor and others, importers of molasses at the port of New York, dated the 16th ultimo.
"I would add, that the Department has not deemed it expedient to apply the principles of the circular of the 27th of May
last to the importations of sugar. Very respectfully,
"MCC.

YOUNG,

Acting Secretary of the Treasury.
"Messrs. F. W. BRUNE & SONs, Baltimore."
The letter to Moses Taylor and others, referred to in the
above letter, was as follows: "Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to Moses Taylor
and others, importers of molasses, New York.
"Treasury Department, July 16th, 1847.
"GENTLEmEN: -

The Department duly received the letter

signed by yourselves and other importers of molasses, at the
port of New York, dated the 2d ultimo, asking to have the
principles established by the circular instructions of the 27th
of May last, for estimating the loss or deficiency in the article
of molasses occasioned by fermentation, stress of weather, or
accident during the voyage of importation, applied to all importations of molasses made prior to the date of said instructions,
running back to the day the present tariff went into operation.
",In reply, I would respectfully state that the Department
does not feel authorized, under the circumstances of the case,
to give a retrospective effect to the regulations referred to, as
desired in your application. Very respectfully,
"R. 3. WALKER,
Secretary of the Treasury."
On the 5th of June, 1848, the following circular was issued
by the Treasury Department : "June 5th, 1848.
"Your attention is called to circular instructions of the Department, 24th March, 1847, on subject 6f allowance for'deficiency, &c. It is represented, that at some of the ports, notwithstanding those instructions, allowance is made for tare and
draught beyond actual deficiency. This must in no case be
permitted, nor can any allowance be made in any case, whether

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

625

Marriott v. Brune et al.

under the name of tare, or draught, or otherwise, beyond the
actual deficiency which has occurred during the voyage of
importation by stress of weather or accident at sea.
"As regards allowance for lost or missing packages, or separate articles, included in the manifest, but not found in vessel
at unlading in United States, you will be governed by' regulation in circular of 31st December, 1847, p. 1 ; but in cases
where no such package has been lost or missing,.no allowance
or abatement of duties can be made for any alleged deficiency
in any of [the] packages imported, such allowance or abatement
being exclusively confined to actual deficiency of any article
which may be discovered in packages when opened, as prescribed in last proviso to 21st section of act of 30th August,
1842, it 'being observed, as enjoined in circular of 18th December, 1847, that such allowance can then only be made in
cases where [it] satisfactorily appears to appiaisers that the
package had not been before opened after shipment for United
States, and where the package has not passed out of custody
of officers of customs.)
The general protest made on the 9th of April, 1847, by
Messrs. Brune & Sons, has.been already set forth. Afterwards
they made a special protest in each of six several importatioiis,
but there were thirteen other importations made after the 9th
of April, 1847, respecting which they relied upon the efficacy
of the general protest of that day.
After the decision of the court in Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard,
236, Congress passed an act, on the 26th of February, 1845,
which, among other things, provides: - " Nor shall any action
be maintained against any collector, to recover the amount of
duties so paid under protest, unless the said protest be made in
writing, and signed by the claimant, at and before the payment of such duties, setting forth distinctly and specifically the
grounds of objection to the payment thereof." See this act,
and the second section of the act of 1839, which it was designed
to alter and explain, 5 Stat. at Large, 349.
One of the questions before the court was, whether under
this act the general protest made on the 9th of April, 1847,
would cover importations made after that day.
On the 4th of November, 1848, Brune & Sons brought their
action against Marriott in the Circuit Court. At April term,
1849, the cause came on for trial, when the following statement of facts wag agreed upon by the counsel. It is not necessary to copy the tabular statements referred to, because the explanation of them is deemed sufficiently intelligible.
53
VOL. Ix.

626

SUPREME "COURT.
Marriott v. Brune et al.

"Statement of Facts.
"It is admitted that the schedule A, herewith filed, to be
taken as part of tils statement, in its first, second, and third
columns, correctly exhibits the importations of sugar and molasses by the plaintiffs into the port of Baltimore, between the
8th of February and the 8th of November, A. D. 1847, both
inclusive, and likewise the names of the vessels by which, and
the places from which, such importations were made, and the
dates of the entries of such importations; that column four exhibits the kind of goods so imported, and how they were contained; that column five exhibits the quantity in pounds of the
sugar, and in gallons of the molasses, shipped in the West Indies, as stated in the invoices which accompanied such importations; that column seven exhibits the dutiable value in foreign currency (including all costs and charges) of the goods
mentioned in the said invoices; which in column eight is
changed into American currency, and upon this value duties
were computed and exacted by the defendant of the plaiptiffs,
and paid by them in order to get possession of their said goods,
and that the amounts of duties so exacted and paid are stated in
column nine.
"It is further admitted, that all the goods imported by the
plaintiffs, as aforesaid, after their arrival and entry at the custom-house, were by the direction of the defendant submitted
to the examination of weighers dnd gaugers, officers belonging
to the custom-house, and who made returns of the weight and
gauge respectively of the goods submitted to them, which returns are correctly exhibited in column six.
"It is further admitted, that if column eight correctly exhibits the value at the place of shipment of the quantity of
goods mentioned in the invoices, including costs and charges,
and exhibited in column five as having been shipped, then column ten exhibits the proportionate value at the place of shipment of the diminished quantity of goods, as ascertained by
said officers to have arrived in Baltimore, and exhibited in
coluiin six, including their proportionate share of costs and
charges; that column eleven exhibits the amount of duty, at
thirty per cent. ad valorem, on the goods as valued in column
ten; that column twelve exhibits the excess of duties alleged
by the plaintiffs to have been overpaid by them, and the aggregate of the sums in this column'constitutes the claim, without
interest, which they seek to recover in this action.
"The plaintiffs also claim interest on the alleged over-payments appearing in column twelve, from the time of such pay-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

627

Marriott v. Brune et aL

ments respectively, and which interest is to be hereafter correctly ascertained.

"It is agreed that column ten of schedule B exhibits the
value in American currency of the deficiency of the goods upon
arrival, as compared with the invoices, agreeably.to the ascertainment of the actual quantity of goods arrived, by the gauger
and weigher respectively, no account being taken'of costs and
charges, except in the case of molasses, the proportion of commission being allowed on that article.
%"Itis also agreed, that column eleven in said schedule exhibits the amount of thirty per cent. on the value of such deficiency so exhibited.
"It is further admitted, that the above-mentioned deficiency
between the quantity of goods which arrived, according to the
returns of the government officers; and that appearing in the
invoices, occurred on, and was produced by, the voyage of importation. And it is also admitted, that allowances for damage
to sugar and molasses injured by a peril of the sea on the voyage of importation are calculated in the mode contended for by
the plaintiffs as the true mode of ascertaining their alleged overpayments.
"It is further admitted, that upon the 9th of April, 1847, the
plaintiffs addressed and delivered to the defendant the general
notice or protest in writing signed by them, and herewith filed,
marked C; and likewise, at the time of the entries of the cargoes of the Uzardo, Samuel G. Mitchel, Isabella, G. W. Russell, W. 3. Watson, and Aristes, respectively addressed and delivered to the defendant a- special notice or protest in writing,
signed by them, and copies of which protests are herewith
filed, marked D.
1CIt is further submitted, whether the protest of the 9th
April, 1847, can be applied to the excess of duties claimed to
have been paid unjustly upon the cargoes of any vessels on
whose cargoes the deficiencies were ascertained and finally adjusted before the date of said protests, and whether it can be
applied to the cargoes of those vessels whose deficiencies were
not finally adjusted by the impost clerk, and whose duties were
not finally charged to the collector in his accounts until after
said protest, although said deficiencies were ascertained in fact
by the gauger and. weigher respectively; and whether such
general protest can be applied to any subsequent importations
and payments of the plaintiffs in regard to which there was no
especial protest.
"And it is admitted, that the deficiencies upon all the cargoes arriving before the Sarah Adams had been ascertained by

628

SUPREME COURT.
Marriott v. Brune et al.

the gauger and weigher -respectively, and returned by them to
the defendant, and had been finally adjusted by the impost
clerk, and that the duties on such cargoes had been charged to
the defendant in his accounts with the treasury before the 9th
of April,'1847; but it is admitted, that although the gauger
and weigher had returned to the defendant the deficiencies on
the cargoes of the Sarah Adams, Sebois, and Magnolia, yet that
the impost clerk, whose duty it is to compare such returns with
the invoices, did not act thereon and ascertain and adjust the
true amount of duties due on such cargoes, and report thereon
to the defendant, until after the said 9th of April, 1847.
"And it is further admitted, that the gauger and weigher did
not make their returns of the deficiency in the cargo of the
Frances Partridge until the 10th of April, 1847.
"It is also admitted, that the custom of the importing merchants of Baltimore in the sale of sugar and molasses is as follows, viz.: -Sugar is sold per pound, that is, at a given price
per hundred pounds, and molasses per gallon, upon the quantity returned by the weigher and gauger as having been imported, without any reference in either case (as to the price)
whether a deficiency in quantity has been suffered on the voyage of importation or not, and also that in no case is the cask
in which the sugar or molasses is contained sold separately
by said importing merchants.
"And it is also admitted, that in all importations of sugar
from Porto Rico no charge for casks appears in the invoices, but
that in importations of molasses from that island, and of sugar
and molasses from- Cuba, a separate charge is made for the
cask.
"It is agreed, that any acts of Congress, and the instructions
of the Secretary of the Treasury, and his correspondence with
the plaintiffs, may be referred to by either party for whatever
purpose they may be legally available.
"Upon the foregoing statement of facts, the questions to be
submitted to the court are, "First. Whether the amount of duties, or any part thereof,
exacted by the defendant and paid by the plaintiffs was illegally exacted, by reason of being charged upon the entire
amount and value of the goods appearing in the invoices to
have been shipped, without any allowance for the deficiency
in weight or gauge from the voyage of importation, as shown
by the returns of the government officers; and,
"Secondly. Whether the plaintiffs can recover back in this
suit the duties so exacted, [or] any part thereof.
"If upon these questions the opinion of the court should be

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

629

Marriott v. 'Brune er aL

in favor of the plaintiffs, then the court shall give judgment
for the plaintiffs, with costs; but if on these questibns the
opinion of the court should be in favor of the defendant, then
judgment shall be entered for the defendant, with costs. And
it is further agreed, that if the judgment in this case should be
in favor of the plaintiffs, the amount, including interest, for
which the judgment shall be entered up may be hereafter calculated, in conformity with the principles which the court shall
decide to govern tjie case, with- liberty to either party to appeal
from the judgment of the court; and with the further agreement, as part of this statement, that the court shall be at liberty
to draw such inferences from the facts above stated as a jury
might or would draw therefrom, and that either party shall
hereafter have power to add to this statement any fact admitted.
by the other party to exist, which may be deemed essential by
the court for the proper decision of the above questions.
"BROWN & BRUNE)Jor Plaintiffs.
W. L. MA

for Defendant."
LSu~,

Upon this statement of facts the opinion of the Circuit Court,
as delivered by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, was, that the allowance for drainage and leakage ought to be made, and that the
reduction ought to be made according to the dutiable value of
the portion lost. With respect to the sufficiency of the protest,
the court held that the protest of Oth April, 1847, could not
apply to payments previously made, and the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover them ; but that it covered all cargoes where
the duties had not before been finally assessed and adjusted by
the collector.
The court thereupon entered judgment for the plaintiffs, on
the case' stated, for the damages laid in the declaration, and
costs, to be released on payment of $ 5,274.29, with interest
from the 19th of May, 1849, until paid, and costs of suit.
From this judgment Mr. Marriott sued out a writ of error,
and brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for the
plaintiff in error, and Mr. Brune, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Johnson made the following points :
1. That the duties were properly assessed upon the amount
of the invoices, under the eighth section of the Tariff Act of
1846.
2. That the loss of the sugars from drainage entered into the
estimation of their value at the time bf purchase, and their cost
to the importer at the time of landing in this country.
53*

630

-SUPREME

COURT.

Marriott v. Brune et aL

3. That the general protest of 9th April, 1845, is not sufficient to cover the duties on sugars imported subsequent thereto, but that a protest in each subsequent importation is required by law. Act of 26th February, 1845 (5 Statutes at
Large, 727).
4. That the protest mus be made at dnd before the payment
of the estimated duties, this payment being necessary to obtain
the goods by the importer. Act of 26th February, 1845 (5
Statutes at Large, 727); § 49 of the Act of 2d March, 1799
(1 Statutes at Large, 664).
In the course of his argument, Mr. Johnson referred to the
following Treasury circulars, in addition to those above stated:
-Mr. Secretary Walker to Collectors and other Officers of the
Customs, 25th November, 1846 (1 Mayo, 349); 24th March,
1847 (Ibid. 360); 27th May, 1847 (Ibid. 362); 31st December,
1847 (Ibid. 404, et seq. ; see voce "Allowances," 405; see also
voce "Invoices," 407); 5th June, 1848 (printed copy); 12th
June, 1848 (printed copy) ; 1st February, 1849 (printed copy).
Mr. Secretary'Meredith, 27th July, 1849 (printed copy) ; 10th
August, 1849 (printed copy).
Mr. Brune, for the defendants in error, made the following
points: 1, That they were only chargeable by law with duties upon
the value of quantities of goods actually imported by them, as
shown by the returns of the weighmasters and gaugers, and not
upon the value of any portions of such goods lost upon the
voyage of importation.
2. That,'as there is no evidence in the case, by appraisement
or otherwise, of any undervaluation in the invoice value of the
goods shipped at the foreign ports, the invoice values must be
held to be the true dutiable values of the goods so shipped;
and, as ftill duties have been exacted from the defendants in
error upon the whole quantity of goods shipped, and as if it
had all arrived, without any allowance or deduction for such
portiQn of such goods as was lost on the voyage, they may now
recover the sums exacted by way of duty upon the portion of
goods so lost.
3. That the defendants in error, by the protest of the 9th of
April, 1847, and their other protests subsequent thereto, have
sufficiently complied with the provisions of the act of 1845,
ch. 22; and under them the plaintiff in error is liable in this
action for the sums exacted by way of duty upon goods lost by
leakage or drainage on the voyage of importation, belonging to
all the cargoes entered on and after that day, as well as belong-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

631

Marriott v. Brune et al.

ing to cargoes previously entered, but which were not then
finally adjusted.
In the argument of the first and second points, the counsel referred to the following acts of Congress - 1799, ch. 22, §§ 21,
49, 72 (1 Stat. at Large, 627); 1818, ch. 79, §§ 4, 5, ,9, 15 (3
Stat. at Large, 433); 1823, ch. 21, §§ 1, 4, 5, 16 (3 Stat. at
Large, 729) ; 1828, May 19, § 8 (4 Stat. at Large, 273) ; 1832,
July 14, § 7, 15 (4 Stat. at Large, 591, 593); 1842, ch. 270,
§§$16, 21, 24 (5 Stat. at Large, 548); 1846, July 30, §§ 1, 4, 8.
And to the following acts, authorizing allowances: - 1799,
ch. 22, §§ 52, 58, 59 (1 Stat. at Large, 627); 1818, ch. 79,
%' 15, 16 (3 Stat. at Large, 433) ; 1823, ch. 21 § 21 (3 Scat.
at Large, 729); 1842, ch. 270, § 21 (5 Stat. at Large, 548), to
be taken in connection with § 22 of the act bf 1818, and § 15
of the act of 1823, just cited.
And to the following acts in construction of the proviso of
the eighth section of the act of 1846, viz.: - 1818, ch. 79, §§ 9,
11, 12, 16 (3 Stat. at Large, 433) ; 1823, ch. 21, §§ 13, 14,21
(3 Stat. at Large, 729).
For the construction of the term imports, to United States v.
Lyman, 1 Mason, 482; United States v. Lindsey,-I Gallison,
365; United States v. Yowell, 5 Cranch, 368.
Upon the third point, to the acts of 1839, ch. 82, $ 2 (5 Stat.
at Large, 348) ; 1845, ch. 22 (5 Stat. at Large, 727) ; and to
Elliot v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137; Swartwout v. Gihon, 3
Howard, 210, 239-241, 255; Casy v. Curtis, lb. 251.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error in this case seeks to reverse a judgment
below, which enabled the Brunes, as importers of certain sugars
into Baltimore, to recover back from the collector a supposed
excess of duties, which had 'been paid upon them. In some of
the cargoes there was a small quantity of molasses, but both are
regarded as resting on the same basis. The points involved are
three in number.
1. What sh6uld be the true amount of duties in this case
under our revenue system, looking to the general legislation on
the subject, and to the nature of the transaction ?
2. Whether the result which may be thus- obtained should
be affected or prevented by the special proviso in the eighth section of the law of 1846?
3. Whether the protests, filed by the importers, were such
as to enable them in point of law to recover back all which has
been allowed by the court below ?.
In considering the first question, it is to be noticed that the

632

SUPREME COURT.
Marriott v. Brune et al.

duties to be paid on imported sugar are now regulated chiefly
by the act of Congress of July 30th, 1846. (9 Stat. at Large,
46.) By the eleventh section of that act the duties are fixed
at thirty per cent. ad valorem. The collector here exacted that
rate on the quantity of sugar named in the invoice and shipped
from foreign ports. But the quantity which arrived and was
entered here was less than that shipped, by drainage and waste,
to the extent- of near five per cent.; and the defendants contended that the duty should be paid only on, that diminished
quantity.
'The general principle applicable to such a case would seem
to be, that revenue should be collected only from the quantity
or weight which arrives here. That is, what is imported,- for
nothing is imported till it comes within the limits of a port.
(See cases cited in Harrison v. Vose, 9 Howard, 372.) And by
express provision in all our revenue laws, duties are imposed
only on imports from foreign countries; or the importation from
them, or what is iinported. (5 Stat. at Large, 548, 558.) The
very act of 1846 under c msideration imposes the duty on what
is "imported from foreign countries." (p. 68.) The Constitution uses like language on this subject. (Article 1, § 8, 9.)
Indeed, the general definition of customs confirms this view;
for; says McCulloch (Vol. I. p. 548), "Customs are duties
charged upon commodities on their being imported into or exported from a country."
As tn imports, they therefore can cover nothing which is not
actually brought into our limits. That is the whole amount
which is entered at the custom-house ; that is all which goes
into the consumption of the country; that, and that alone, is
what comes in competition' with our domestic manufactures;
and we are unable to see any principle of public policy which
requires the words of the act of Congress to be extended so as
to embrace more.
When the duty was specific on this article, being a certain
rate per pound, before the act of 1846, it could of course extend to no larger number of pounds than was actually entered.
The change in the law has been merely in the rate and form
of the duty, and not in the quantity on which it should be aisessed.
On looking a little further into the principles of the case, it
will be seen that a deduction must be made from the quantity
shipped abroad, whenever it does not all reach the' United
States, or we shall in truth assess here what does not exist
here. The collection of revenue on an article not existing,
and never coming "int the country, would be an anomaly, a

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

633

Marriott v. Brure et al.

mere fiction of law, and is not to be countenanced where not
expressed in acts of Congress, nor required to enforce just
rights.
It is also the quantity actually received here by which alone
the importer is benefited. It is all he can sell again to customers. It is all he can consumne. It is all he can regxport for
drawback. (1 Stat. at Large, 680- 689; 4 Stat. at Large, 29.)
Nor is his sugar improved in quality by the drainage, so as
to raise any equity against him by it. The evidence in the
ensuing case from New York, which was argued with, this,
shows that the article usually becomes of a worse color and
quality than before, though if not drained at all it might ferment and become still more inferior.
Indeed, the reasonableness of this deduction seems countenanced by various other acts of Congress. In certain instances,
where a loss uually occurs, and where a general and reasonable rate of reduction could be prescribed, they have authorized
it expressly in several cases of the character referred to.
Thus, in the case of liquors, a certain fixed per cent. is deducted in the measure, in all cases, for leakage (1 Stat. at Large,
166), and .till more is deducted for breakage, when in bottles.
(1 Stat. at Large, 672.)
So another reduction is made in
weight for tare and draft. (1 Stat. at.Large, 166.) The last
should be draff, meaning dust and dirt, and not what is generally meant by "draught " or "draft."
But beside these instances, in cases of an actal injury to an
article arriving here in a damaged state, a reduction from the
value is permitted expressly on account of the diminished value.
1 Stat. at Large, 41, 166, 665.
The former cases, referred to for illustration, rest on their
peculiar principles, and allowances in them are made by positive provisions in acts of Congress, even though the quantity
and weight of the real article meant to be imported should arrive here. Because, knowing well that the whole is not likely
to arrive, and being able to fix, by a general average, the ordinary loss in those cases with sufficient exactness, the matter
has been legislated on expressly.
Yet there are other cases of loss, from various causes, which
may be very uncertain in amount, for which no fixed and inflexible rate of allowance can be prescribed, and which must,
therefore, in each instance, be left to be regulated by the general provisions for assessing duties, and the general principles
applicable to them, as- before explained. Consequently, where
a portion of the shipment in cases like these does not arrive
here, and hence does not come under the possession and cog-

634

SUPREME COURT.
Marriott v. Brune et al.

nizance of the custom-house officers, it cannot; as heretofore
shown, be taxed on any ground. of law or of truth and propriety,
and does not therefQre require for its exemption any positive
enactment by Congress.
Such is. the case of a portion being lost by perils of the
sea, or by being thrown overboard, to save the ship; or by
fire, or piracy, or larceny, or barratry, or a sale and delivery on
the'voyge, or by natural decay. If there be a material loss,
it can make fio difference to the sufferer or the government
-whether it happened by natural or artificial causes. In either
case, the article to that extent is not here to be assessed, nor to
be of any value to the owner.
To add to such unfortunate losses, the burden of a duty on
them, imposed afterwards, would be an uncalled for aggravation, woub be adding cruelty to misfortune, and would not
be justified by any sound reason or any express provision of
law. On the contrary, Congress, in several instances, when the
articles imported actually arrived here, and were afterwards destroyed' by fire before the packages had been opened and entered into the consumption -of the country, have refunded or
remitted the duties. 2 Stat.' at Large, 201; 5 ibid. 284; 6
ibid. 2.
But much more should duties not be exacted on what was
lost or destroyed on its way hither, and which never came even
into .the possession or control of the custom-house officers, and
much less into the use of the commufiity.
Something has been urged in argument en the estimate
made by the appraisers, and the final character attached to it.
However that may be, if one was made in this case it could be
final only as to the price of the sugar abroad, and not as to the
quantity or weight reaching this 'country. The latter is fixed
by another class of officers, authorized by law for that purpose;
and if the appraisers undertake to fix it, their action in that respect is coram non judice, and a nullity.
The price abroad in this case depended on a variety of circums.tances, as the size.-of the erop, the urgency of the demand in the market, the quality of the article, &c.; and the
invoice may be primd facie evidence of the result of these and
other causes in establishing that price; but for Zquarter of a
century it has been departed from -by the appraisers, if the
-facts ascertained by them will warrant it; though-their action
and decision as to the price are understbod not to be here in
this respect in controversy.
The various circulars from the Treasury Department, which
have been referred to, and which have been construed in some

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

635

Marriott v. Brune et al.

cases to permit the deduction of the quantity not really arriving
in this country, and in others to forbid it, are entitled to much
respect in deciding on the true meaning of the revenue laws.
But when contradictory or obscure, they furnish less aid, and
are never decisive or incontrollable. Their design is, of course,.
to protect the revenue from -evasions, and the policy of the
courts is the same, when deciding how the laws ought to be
executed on these subjects.:
But as Congress wishes to foster an honest and honorable
commerce by its laws, no less than obtain revenue, it is neither
the true policy nor right of Departments or of courts, nor is it
presumed to be their desire, to thwart the views of Congress, or
embarrass mercantile 'business, when not atiended by equivocation and fraud, or to throw doubts and difficulties over the
liberal course proper to be pursued generally towards the community in any branch of trade.
Thinking, then, as we do, that making this deduction is not
only the legal, but the more reasonable and liberal course, it
has our full approbation.
The second point of inquiry, concerning the restrictive
effect of the proviso on'the eighth section of the act of 1846,
has been very eainestly urged as opposed to a construction allowing this deduction. It is argued, that allowing it would
usually reduce the aggregate value below the invoice, and that
this is prohibited by the -ords of the proviso, enacting, "That
under no circumstance shall the duty be zissessed upo an
amount less than the invoice value, any law of Congress to the
contrary notwithstanding." 9 Stat. at Large, 43.
But this proviso apparently relates to the enactment in the
section where it stands, concerning the owner, or his agent,
raising the invoice or assessment to "the true market value of
such imports in the principal markets of the country whence
the importation shall have been made."
If,however, it was meant to be'general, as seems more likely
from previous laws, and to hold -the owner to his invoice in all
cases, by a species of estoppel, so far as not to let it be made
lower than was originally admitted in the invoice, then the restriction manifestly relates to the price only. He need not b
estopped about the quantity in the invoice, as the duty is not
assessed on the quantity abroad, but on the quantity reaching
home, and entered and 'ascertained by law by the measurer and
weigher here. ' But he might properly be in respect to the
price, as it is on the price abroad, and charges added, that the
duty is by law to be assessed.
The language of the proviso is not artistic, nor very clear,

66

SUPREME COURT.
Marriott v. Brune, et al..

but, from the considerations just stated, we -think the words

"less than the invoice value" must mean the same as invoice
price. It can, too, bear no other construction consistent with
its language and probable design, and the evident design, looking to all the circumstances, must govern. 16 Peters, 367;
Paine, C. .- I-; Bac. Abr. Statute, 1.
But what is calculated to remove all doubt, as to the true
meaning of the proviso, is a clause in the act of April 20th,
1818, on this same subject. 3 Stat. at Large, 427.
The twelfth section provides, that, in "all cases where the
appraised value shall be less than the invoice value, the duty
hiall be charged on the invoice value in the same manner as if
no appraisement had been made."
This is plain and intelligible, and by value refers, of course,
to the price in the *invoice,as that is to be fixed by the appraisers. Making the deduction, then, which was made below in
this case, was no violation of this proviso, as it was a reduction
in the quantity below the invoice, and not in the price.
The last question relates to the validity of the protests to the
extent held in the Circuit Court.
There is no pretence that the protest by letter, dated the 9th
of April, 1847, was not good in form and substance for all the
cargoes which had then been entered and the duties not paid.
Though in some of the previous entries no protest had beenmade at the time, under ah- impression that the duties on what
had been lost would voluntarily berefunded, yet, where the
payment had been closed up, the court did not feel justified, nor
do we, in embracinig those cases under any existing equities,
'without the written protest required by the act of Congress.
(5 Stat. at Large, 727.) But where the duties had not been
closed up in any cases, when the written protest in April was
filed, - though the preliminary l*ayment of the estimated duties
had taken place,-- ihe court justly considered ihe pr6test valid.
Because, till the final adjustment, the money remains in the
hands. of the collector, and is not accounted for with the
government, and more may be necessary to be paid by the
importer.
The question as to subsequent entries being covered by this
protest is not so clearly in favor of the importer. But as they
all depended on a like principle, -- as from the circulars of the
Tepartment some doubt existed whether the excess of duties
would notvoluntarily be refunded, -as the amounts in each imortation were sall, and both parties thus became fully avare
that te excess in all such cases was intended to be put in controversy and reclaimed, -we are inclined to thinkthis written

JANUARY TERKI

1850.

amT

The United States v. Southxnayi et &L

protest may fairly be regarded as applying to all subsequent
cases of a like character, belonging to the same parties.
Judgment affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it. is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court- in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs -and damages at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

irOl&CS SOTTH&YD

AND STEPMN C. SOVTHD AYD.
The decision in the preceding case of Marriott v. Brune affirmed.
The faet, that the seller of sugars abroad takes into consideration the probableloG
from drainage, does not justify the collector in our ports in charghig a duty upon
the portion thus lost. The duty must be assessed upon what arrires in this muntry, and not upon what was purchased, abroad.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
It involved the same question as the preceding case of Marriott v. Brune, viz. whether, in calculating the duties upoi an
importation of sugar, allowance should be made for leakage
and drainage, with the additional fact in -evidence, that the
purchaser abroad takes into consideration the probable loss ir
fixing the price to be paid.
There was in this case only a'single importation, which was
made from Porto Rico, in September, 1849. The weight of
the sugar, according to the invoice, was 191,710 pounds Spanish, and its actual weight at the time of entry 180,713 pounds,
the difference being 10,997 pounds. 'I he sugar' being appraised, the appraisers added a quarter of a cent per pound to
-the invoice, and upon the invoice price, thus increased, the
The defendants paid only
duty amounted to $2,441.70.
$ 2,350, being the duty less the loss in weight from drainage.
VFor the difference, being $ 91.70, the United States brought
suit against the importers. This 'course was pursued in order
54
VOL. Ix.

