172

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

JOHN A. PERRINE, COMPLAINANT, V. THE CHESAPrEARE AND DELAWARE CANAL COMPANY, DEFENDANTS.
The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company have no right under their charter
to demand toll from passengers who pass through the canal, or from vessels on
account of the passengers on board.
The articles upon which the company is authorized to take toll are particularly
enumerated, and the amount specified. The tolr is imposed on commodities on
board of a vessel passing through the canal.
No toll is given on the vessels themselves, except only when they have no commodities on board, or not sufficient to yield a toll of four dollars. Passengers are not
mentioned in the enumeration, nor is any toll given upon a vessel on account of
the persons or passengers it may have on board.
A corporation created by statute is a mere creature of the law, and can exercise no
powers except those which the law confers upon it. The canal company is not
the absolute owner of the works, but holds the property only for the purposes for
which it was created. It has not, therefore, the same unlimited control over it
which an individual has over his property.
Nor has the company a right to refuse permission for passengers to pass through the
canal. On the contrary, any one has a rightto navigate the canal for they~tsportation of passengers with passengerboats, without paying any toll on th. passengers on board, upon his paying or offering to pay the toll prescribed e - law
upon the commodities on board, or the toll prescribed by law on a vessel or boat
when it is empty of commodities.

THis cause came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Delaware, on a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.

It involved the construction of the ninth and eleventh sections of the charter granted by Maryland, the provisions of
which are similar to those of the charter granted by Delaware.
"SEc. 9. For and in consideration of the expenses the said
stockholders will be at, not only in cutting the said canal and
-other works for opening the said navigation, but in maintaining
and keeping the same in repair, the said canal and works, with
all their profits, under the limitations aforesaid, shall be, and
the same are hereby, vested in the said corporation for ever,

and it shall and may be lawful for the said president and directors, after the said canal shall be made navigable, to demand
aid receive the following tolls ..... .every pipe of wine or
French brandy containing .....
' one dollar and twenty-five
cents,' .....

.[&c.,

enumerating articles and specifying the

tollsI and for all other commodities the same proportion, agreeable to the articles herein enumerated; and every boat or vessel which has not commodities on board to pay the sum of four
dollars shall pay so muqh as, with the commodities on board,
will yield the sium aforesaid, and every empty boat or vessel
four dollars, except an empty boat or vessel returning, whose
load*has already paid the tolls affixed, in which case she shall
pass tbll-free."

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

173

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

"SEC. 11. The said canal and works to be erected thereon
by virtue of this act, when completed, shall for ever thereafter
be esteemed and taken to be navigable as a public highway,
free for the transportation of all goods, commodities, or produce
whatsoever, on payment of the toll imposed by this act, and no
tax whatsoever for the use of the water of the said -canal, or
the works thereon erected, shall at any time hereafter be imposed by all or either of the said States."
The following correspondence explains the origin of the dispute.

(Exhibit No. 1.)
To the President and Directors of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co., Philadelphia.
Princeton, N. J., 24th iVarch, 1847.
GENTLEMEN, - As I propose to establish a canal passenger
line of boats between Camden, Philadelphia, and Baltimore, to
pass through your canal, I think proper to give you notice of
my intention so to do. My plan is to commence running on
the 1st day of May next, to be continued through the spring
and summer. I have been informed that the company of
which you constitute the Board of President and Directors
claim the right to prevent the transit of passengers through the
said canal, if you deem it expedient so to do; and that if you
permit it, you still maintain the right to charge a toll for each
passengerwhom you allow to pass through. Now, being of
opinion that neither by your charter, nor by law, are you authorized either to exclude passengers, or to charge a toll on
them, I beg to inquire whether any such right or authority is
claimed or will be insisted on by you, so as to prevent future
misunderstanding, and I shall be obliged by an answer at your
earliest convenience.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
(Signed,)
J. A. P nium.
To CALBs NEWBOLD, Esq.,

Pres't Ches. and Del. Canal Co., Philadelphia.
(Exhibit No. 2.)
SChesapeake and Delaware Canal Office,
Philad.elphia,30th March, 1847.
At a meeting of the Board of President and Directors of the
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, held this day, the
President laid before the board a letter dated 24th instant, from
John A. Perrine, Esq., of New Jersey, stating his intention to
15*

174

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

establish a canal passenger line between Camden, Philadelphia,
and Baltimore, and making inquiry as to the transportation of
passengers through the canal, and a charge of tolls therefor.
The said letter was read and considered, and it was resolved,
That the President reply to Ir. Perrine, and inform him that
the company claims the right to exclude passengers unless
their transit is allowed by the special permission of the company, and, if that is granted, then to receive a fair rate of toll
for each passenger.
Extracts from the minutes.
PETER V. LESLEY, Sec.
(Exhibit No. 3.)
To

SIR:-

JOHN

A.

Esq., Princeton, New Jersey.
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Ojice,
Philadelphia,30th MIarch, 1847.

PERRINE,

Your letter of the 24th instant, addressed to the

President and Directors of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal
Co., has been received, and was laid before the board. A resolution was passed by them, of which I inclose .you a copy.
The company regard the canal as a "public highway, free for
tbe transportation of all goods, commodities, or produce whatsoever," on payment of the tolls "authorized by charter, and
for boats or vessels which have not commodities on board," on
payment uf the sum authorized in such case by charter; but
they deny that it is a public highway for the transportation of
passengers, and claim the right to exclude passengers, except
by special permission of the company; and if that is granted,
then to receive a fair rate of toll for each passenger. The
canal was intended by the charter to be used by vessels engaged in commerce, not by passenger lines, which interfere
with the trade and injure the canal. Any.vessel you may send
in the line you propose to establish will b' permitted to pass
through, if they have goods, commodities, and produce on
board; or, if empty, on payment of the regular tolls now imposed. If you carry passengers, or persons not engaged in the
navigation or business of the vessel or cargo, you will be re•quired to pay one dollar toll for each passenger, on arriiing at
the first lock. If ydu refuse to make this payment, or to land
your, passengers, the vessel will not- be permited to pass
through the canal. I am directed also to say, that, if your
vessels pass through the canal, they will be required toadhere
strictly to all the existing rules and regulations as to speed and
conduct. Very respectfully, your obedient .servant,
(Signed,)

(. NEWBOLD, JR., President.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

175

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

(Exhibit No. 4.)
To the President and Directorg of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company.
Princeton, New Jersey, April 1st, 1847.
GENTLEMEN :-

I have received the letter of your President,

dated the 30th of March. After due reflection, I have in reply
to say, that I do not consider the Chesapeake and Delaware
Canal Company as being authorized by law, either to exclude
passengers from my vessels, or to charge me any other toll than
the sum they are authorized by the charter to receive for-an
empty vessel. This I will pay, but no more, unless I have
commodities on board, and then no more than the regular tolls
now imposed thereon. Not deeming it necessary to prolong
this correspondence, I shall only further repeat my notice, that
I shall commence the canal passenger line mentioned in my
letter of the 24th ultimo on -the 1st day of May next, and I
trust no obstacle will be presented by your officers or agents at
the canal.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
(Signed,)

JoHN A. PERRINE.

(Exhibit No. 5.)
I Philadelphia,Chesapeake, and Delaware
Canal Office, April 6th, 1847.
At a meeting of the goard of Directors of the Chesapeake
and Delaware Canal Company held this day, the President laid
before the board- a copy of a letter addressed by him on the
30th of March, 1847, to John A. Perrine, Esq., of Princeton.
New Jersey, in compliance with the resolution of the board o:
the 30th of March, 1847, and also the answer of Mr. Perrne
thereto, dated the 1st instant.
The said letters were read and considered, and that of the
President approved. It was then, on motion, resolved, That the President instruct the superintendent at the Delaware Tide Lock, on the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, to
permit any vessel of the canal passenger line established by
John A. Perrine, Esq., to pass through the canal, if it have
goods, commodities, or produce on board, or if empty, on payment of the regular tolls now imposed; but if the said vessel
carry passengers or persons not engaged in the navigation or
business of the vessel, or cargo, to require from the master of
said vessel the payment of one dollar toll for each passenger,
before said vessel passes out of said lock; and if such payment
be not made, or the passengers be not landed from said vessel,

SUPREME COURT.

176

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

then not to permit it to pass through the canal. And further,
to instruct the superintendent, and the officers and agents of
the company, to be diligent in requiring any such vessel, if it
shall enter or pass through the canal, to adhere sirictly to all
the existing rules and regulations as to speed and conduct.
Resolved, That the President transmit to Mr. Perrine a copy
of the above resolution.
Extract from the minutes.
PETER V. LESLEY, Secretary.

To

JOHN

(Fxhibit No. 6.)
A. PERmNE, Esq., Princeton, New Jersey.
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Office,,

Philadelphia,April 6th, 1847.
Sm: - Your letter of the 1st inst. was received and laid
before the board. Pursuant to their direction, I inclose a copy
of a resolution adopted in relation thereto.
It is proper for me to apprise you, that the instructions therein
mentioned have been given to the superintendent at the Delaware Tide Lock, and they w;l be strictly enforced.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. NEWBOLD, JR., President.
(Signed,)
(Exhibit No. 7.)
To M . JOHN AsH, Superintendent of the Delaware Tide Lock
on the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal.
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Ofice,
Philadelphia,April 6th, 1847.
Si: - I inclose a copy of a resolution this day adopted by
the Board of President and Directors, in relation to a canal passenger line established by John A. Petrine, Esq., of New Jersey; you will be particular in enforcing the decision of the
board, as contained in this resolution.
Very respectfully, yours,
C. NEWBOLD, JR., President.
(Signed,)
In consequence of this action, the complainant, on the 12th of
April, 1847, filed his bill in the Circuit Court for the Delaware
District, setting forth the preceding facts; and to the' end that
he might beprotected against the acts and doings of the said
corporation, and that the right to transport passengers through
the said canal, in his said canal passenger line, and in boats
and vessels upon payment of the tolls authorized by law upon

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

1'77

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

the boats or vessels, or upon'the goods, commodities, or produce
on board thereof, and free 'from an charge in respect of the
passengers transported in said canal passenger line, or on board
of the said boats or vessels, might be established by the decree
of the court, and the said corporation restrained from preventing
the transit of passengers in his said canal passenger line, and
from imposing any toll upon it in respect of the passengers on
board of the same, or from hindering its free passage with passengers and persons, others than those engaged in the navigation or business of the vessel or cargo, until the said payment
in respect of such passengers and persons on board; he prayed
for an injunction to restrain the corporation and its superintendent at the Delaware Tide Lock, and its officers and
agents, from executing and carrying into effect the resolution of the board, and the instructions issued in pursuance
thereof.
The company, on the 3d of May, filed their answer, in which
they admitted the facts and proceedings alleged in the complainant's bill, and that the instructions given to their officers
would be enforced, in regard to the canal passenger line of the
complainant, and any boat or vessel belonging to him: but they
denied that either by any provision, terms, or conditions of
their charters of incorporation, or by any law, they are or were
forbidden, or ought not to have passed the resolution in question, or given such instructions, but, on the contrary, that they
are advised that the same are within their franchises, authorities, rights, and privileges granted by or arising under their
charters of incorporation, and the acts supplementary thereto,
and that they ought not to be restrained from enforcing them,
but allowed to do so.
At May term, 1847, the cause coming on to be heard, the
following questions occurred: 1st. Is the canal company entitled to charge the compensation or toll mentioned in the proce edings for passengers on
board the com~plainant's boat passing through the canal ?
2d. Has the complainant a right to navigate the canal for
the transportation of passengers, with passenger boats, paying
or offering to pay toil upon the boats as empty boats, or upon
commodities on board, but without toll or compensation for
passengers, as proposed in his correspondence contained in the
exhibits ?
And upon each of these questions the epinions of the judges
were opposed.
And thereupon, at this same term, at the request and upon
motion of the complainant's counsel, the said points, on which

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

the disagreement has happened, are stated under the direction
of the judges, and to be certified, under the seal of this court, to
the Supreme Court of the United States, t their next session,
to be finally decided.
The case was argued by Mr. Whiteley, for the complainant,
and by Mr. Gilpin and ir. Bayard, for the defendants. It
was brought up by the defendants, and therefore opened, by
Mr. Gilpin, who was followed by Mr. Whiteley, and the argument was concluded by Mr. Bayard. Nevertheless, the complainant's points will be stated first.
Mr. Whiteley made the following points for the complainant: First point. There is no provision in the charter of the
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, authorizing the
company to charge toll or compensation on the passengers in
any boat or vessel passing through the canal. 3 Delaware Laws,
170. Collection of Laws relative to Ches. and Del. Canal Co.,
9, 10, 25, 26, 27 (attached to bill of the complainant).
Second point. Corporations have only such powers as are
specifically granted by the act of incorporation, or such as are
necessary to carry into effect the powers expressly granted. 2
Kent's Com. 298; Head and Amory v. Providence Ins. Co.,
2 Cranch, 127; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 420.
Third point. The canal having been constructed pursuant
to an act of incorporation, passed by the legislatures of Delaware and Maryland, the right of the company to! toll is derived
entirely from the charter, and is to be considered as if there
was an agreement between them and the public, the terms of
which are expressed in the act of incorporation; and the rule of
construction is, that any ambiguity in the terms of the contract
must operate against the corporation, and in favor of the public.
The corporation, therefore, can claim nothing which is not
clearly given to them by their charter. The Proprietors of the
Stourbridge Canal v. Wheeley et al., 2 Barn. & Adolph: 792;
Kingston Dock Co. v. La Marche, 8 Barn. & Cress. 42; Charles
River. Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 544.
Fourth point. By the incorporation of this company, certain franchises were granted by the public to them, and those
franchises were of importance to the public interest. Nothing
therefore passes to the corporation by implication.
United
States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 738 ; Beatty v. Lessee of Knowler,
4 Peters, 168; Providence Bank v. Billings and Pitman, 4
Peters, 514; Charles Piver Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

179

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

545, 546; Leeds and Liverpool Canal v. Husler, 2 Dowl. &
Ryl. 556; 1 Barn. & Cress. 424.
Fifth point. The canal is expressly made, by its charter, a
"public highway." Collect. of Laws relative to Ches. and
Del. Canal Co., 11, 27; Doe dem. of Bywater v. Brandling et
al., 7 Barn. & Cress. 643.
Sixth point. The use of the waters of the canal is public,
though the canal itself is private property; the complainant,
therefore, as one of the public, has the right to the use of its
waters, subject only to the express restrictions contained in the
charter,- the payment of such tolls as the charter authorizes
upon the commodities on board of his boats, or the toll fixed
by the charter upon empty boats.
Seventh point. That the charter of the said Chesapeake
and Delaware Canal Company gives the said company nio power to refuse a passage to any vessel through the said canal, except upon refusal or neglect of the captain or owner of any
such vessel to pay the toll fixed by the charter. Coll. of Laws
relative to Ches. and Del. Canal Co., 11, 26.
The points on behalf of the canal company were the following :First point. Ifconceded that, in cases of ambiguity in legislative grants or charters, the construction should bein favor of
the public, yet no forced or extravagant construction in favor
of the public can properly create an ambiguity; but a rational
and fair exposition should be made; according to the general
rules which govern in the exposition of all public statutes.
Dwarris on Statutes, c. 11, p. 658; Stevens v. Duckworth,
Hardres, 344; Rex v. Burchett, 1 Shower, 108; Mitchell v.
Soren, Parker, 233; Sussex Peerage Case, 11 Clark & Fin.
143; Rex v. Pease, 1 Nev. & Man. 694; Rowe v. Shilson, 4
Barn. & Adol. 731; 1 Nev. & Man. 739; Rex v. The Grand
Junction Canal Company, 3 Railway Cases, 14; Rex v. The
Glamorgan Canal Company, 3 Railway Cases, 16; The Provost
of Eton College v. The Great Western Railway Company, 1
Railway Cases, 220; Barrett v. The Stockton and Darlington
Railroad Company, 2 Man. & Grang. 134; Hopkins v. Thoroughgood, 2 Barn. & Adolph. 921; The Charles ,River Bridge
Company v. W'he Warren Bridge Company, 11 Peters, 589,
598.
Second point. By a fair and just interpretation of the charter of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company, granted
by the States of Delaware and Maryland, the public have no
right to use the canal for the transportation of passengers, it

180

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

being a limited highway by the terms of the grant, and the
right of the public to the use of the canal as a highway existing under and by force of the grant alone. The Maryland
Charter, § 11 ; The Delaware Charter, § 10; Maryland Laws,
1827, ch. 207, 1831, ch. 296, § 19 - Delaware Laws, 1829,
p. 323, 1832, p. 114; Stafford v. Coyney, 7 Barn. & Cress.
257, 260; The Seneca Road Company v. The Auburn and
Rochester Railroad Company, 5 Hill, 174.
Third point. The canal is the property of the defendants,
subject to the use of the public to the extent prescribed in the
charter, but the jus publicum is derived from the charter alone,
and the right of property remains in the defendants, with all
its attributes and -incidents, not derogating from the public
right; and among those incidents is the right to demand and
receive compensation for the use of the property for other purposes than those t6 which the jus publicum applies. 2 Coke's
Inst. 220; Hale de Jure Maris, 73, 77; Heddy v. Wellhouse,
Moore, 474; Crispe v. Bellwood, 3 Levinz, 424; Rex v. Barslett, 1 Ld. Raym. 149; Northampton v. Ward, 2 Strange,
1238; Rex v. The Mersey and Irwell Nay. Co., 4 Man. &
Ryl. 98; Rex v. The Avon Nay. Co., 4 Man. & Ryl. 23,
31, 36; Rickards v. Bennett, I Barn. & Cress. 233, 234.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Chesapeake and Delaware Canal connects the waters of
the Chesapeake and Delaware Bays, and derives its corporate
existence from charters granted by Maryland, Delaware, and
Pennsylvania. It passes through the territory of the first two
States only; but Pennsylvania was deeply interested in this
improvement, and Maryland, it appears, was unwilling to authorize it unless the opening of the navigation of the Susquehannah River was connected with the construction of this
canal. Delaware, also, supposed itself to have some demands
on Pennsylvania, as appears by the charter it granted. And in
order to accomplish the objects which the different States had
in view, each of them passed an act incorporating this company, with certain conditions annexed to the respective charters, concerning bther objects, thereby making its incorporation
a compact between them. The nature of this compact, and
the purposes it was intended to accomplish, will be ready understood, from the situation of the navigable waters which this
canal was intended to unite, and from the peculiar provisions
inserted in the respective charters.
Before this canal was made, the city of Baltimore almost
monopolized the trade of the country bordering on the Chesa-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

181

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

peake Bay, and of the numerous tide-water rivers which penetrate the adjacent country. For, in order to reach Philadelphia,
it was necessary to pass by sea from the capes of the Chesapeake to those of the Delaware, and commerce could therefore
be carried on only in vessels fit to navigate the ocean. Philadelphia naturally desired to share in the trade thus exclusively
enjoyed by Baltimore, by opening a safe and easy inland communication frora one bay to the other; and it was evident from
the nature of the country, that this could be effected by a canal
of about thirteen miles in length, near the head of the Chesapeake Bay.
On the -other hand, the interests of Baltimore were adverse
to this canal, as it would deprive it of the advantage it then
possessed, and it moreover desired to bring to its own port the
•-ast productions of the country watered by the Susquehannali,
which flows into the Chesapeake Bay at its head. But this
river was obstructed by rocks, and the trade was for the most
part carried on over land with Philadelphia; and these obstructions could not be removed without the consent of Pennsylvania, as some of the most serious impediments to navigation
were within the limits of that State, a little north of the Maryland line.
The respective States naturally felt it their duty to foster
their respective cities, as far as justice and the interests of the
community, generally, would permit. Pennsylvania, therefore,
would not agree to remove the obstructions in the Susquehannah, unless the canal was authorized to be made; nor would
Maryland authorize the canal, unless the trade of the Susquehannah was laid open to Baltimore. But neither State was
disposed to sacrifice the interests of its citizens Io the rJvalship
of the cities, and both were sensible of the advantages arising
from the general extension of commercial intercourse, and were,
it appears, willing that these two important avenues of trade
should be opened at the same time.
The provisions of the charters of the different States show
the particular interests which they respectively desired to protect, and the objects they proposed to attain by mutual couperation.
The first act incorporating this company was passed by
The last section is in the following
Maryland in 1799.
words: "Provided, that this law shall be of no force or effect until
a law shall be passed by the State of Delaware authorizing the
cutting the canal aforesaid, and until a law shall be passed by
the Legislature of Pennsylvania declaring the River Susquehan16
voL. Ix.

182

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

nah to be a highway, and authorizing individuals or bodies
corporate to remove obstructions therein, at a period not exceeding three years from the 1st day of March, 1800."
The charter from Delaware was obtained in 1801. In the
clauses upon which the canal company relies, to maintain its
claim in this controversy, the act of the Legislature of Delaware
is in the same words with the 'act of Maryland, and, like Maryland, it annexed to its charter certain conditions, which it required Pennsylvania to fulfil before the act of incorporation
should take effect. But it is unnecessary to state them particularly, as they have no reference to the canal or the river, and
relate to subjects entirely distinct from the navigation which
these improvements were intended to open.
In 1801, a fevw weeks after the act of Delaware was passed,
Pennsylvania also incorporated this company, and in the same
law declared the Susquehanah to be a public highway, and
authorized the removal of the obstructions in it, as demanded
by Maryland, and complied a so with the conditions required
by the charter from Delaware. The act of incorporation of
Pennsylvania adopts the Maryland charter; and after having
done so in general terms, it adds the fdllowing words: - " And
shall derive no other powers under this act but such as are set
forth in the said act of the Legislature of Maryland, or necessarily incident to a corporation."
As we have already said, the canal does not pass through
any part of the territory of Pennsylvania, and consequently
there was no necessity for a charter from that State to authorize a company to construct the work. All that was required
of her was a compliance-with the conditions annexed to the
charters of the two other States. But as the city of Philadelphia was chiefly interested in this improvement, and the interests of Baltimore adverse, it was evident that subscriptions for
the stock were to be looked for in the former, and not in the
latter ; and that it would be essential to the success of the enterprise, that its managers should be members of the community which favored it, and the board hold its sessions and transact its business amongst them. A charter from Pennsylvani4
was necessary to attain these objects, and thereby give assurance of the ultimate success of the work.
But a charter from Pennsylvania was necessary for another
object still meore important. The Susquehannah was'to be a
public highway, and this canal was intended to be equally free
and open, subject only to the tolls to which the State had assented. And if this company should afterwards, under the
sanction of Maryland, be permitted to exercise powers beyond

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

183

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.
those specified in the charter, or impose tolls and burdens not
therein enumerated, the navigation of the canal might be seriously obstructed, or so heavily burdened as to give to Baltimore, exclusively, not only the trade it then monopolized, but
also that of the Susquehannah when the river should be opened.
It was deemed, therefore, advisable by Pennsylvania, to combine with its assent to the Maryland condition an act incorporating the company, in order that it might derive its corporate
existence from the three States, and its charter become a compact between them, which neither could alter without the consent of the other. Hence the .insertion of the particular provision above mentioned in the Pennsylvania law, the object of
which is not merely to assert a general and familiar principle
in the construction of acts of incorporation, but to place it out
of the power of the other States to enlarge the privileges of the
corporation, or increase the'burdens of the transit through the
canal, without the consent of Pennsylvania.
The interest of that State certainly required that the canal,
upon the payment of the stipulated tolls, should be free for all
the purposes for which the Susquehannah was declared to be a
public highway. The opening of the river and the construction of the canal were correlative improvemepts and portions
of the same line of navigation, and there could be no reason of
justice or policy for stopping at the canal the passengers who
came down the Susquehannah on their way to Philadelphia.
Whether they are made liable to toll, or not, must of course be
determined by the language of the charters. But the interest
and policy of Maryland and Pennsylvania undoubtedly required
that their citizens should have a right to pass through. And
if the corporation may refuse that permission 'to passengers, the
line of communication, which was manifestly intended to be
opened throughout to the same description of intercourse, may
be inconveniently interrupted, and the policy of the States,
and especially that of Pennsylvania, disappointed to a serious
extent. The evil Will not be lessened if the corporation is
authorized to exact toll from passengers, and the amount left
altogether to its own will and pleasure.
With this view of the general object and policy of these
laws, we proceed, in the first place, to' inquire whether the
language used in them, according to its true and legal construction, gives to the corporation the right to demand toll
from passengers who pass through the canal, or from vessels on
account of the passengers on board.
This question may be disposed of in a few words. The articles upon which the company is authorized to take toll are

184

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

particularly enumerated, and the amount specified. The toll is
imposed on commodities on board of a vessel passing through
the canal.
No toll is given on the vessels themselves, except only when
they have no commodities on board, or not sufficient to yield a
toll of four dollars. Passengers are not mentioned in the enumeration, nor is any toll given upon a vessel on account of the
persons or passengers it may have on board.
Now it is the well-settled doctrine of this court, that a corpo.
ration created by statute is a mere creature of the law, and car
exercise no powers except those which.the law confers upon it,
or which are incident to its existence. Head and Amory v.
The Providence Ins. Co., 2 Cranch, 127; Dartmouth College
v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 636; Bank of the United States v.
Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64; Charles River Bridge v. Warren
Bridge, 11 Pet. 544; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 587.
And as no power is given to this corporation to demand toll
from passengers, or from vessels on account of the passengers
on board, it is very clear that no such power can be exercised,
and no such toll lawfully taken.
The principle above stated is also an answer to the argument
which places the right of the company to demand toll upon
the ground that it is the absolute owner of the works and of
the land it occupies, and insists that it may therefore, like any
other owner, demand compensation from any person passing
over its property. The error of this argument consists in regarding the title of the company to the property in question as
derived to them upon common law principles, and measuring
their rights by the rules of the common law. The corporation
has no rights of property except those derived from the provisions of. the charter, nor can it exercise any powers over the
property it holds except those with which the charter has
clothed it. rt holds the property only for the purposes for
which it was permitted to acquire it, - that is, to effectuate the
objects for which the Legislature created it. And whether it
may lawfully demand compensation from a person whom it
permits to pass over its property must depend upon the language of the charter, and not upon the rules of the common
law.
Certainly in this instance the power is not conferred in express terms, nor are any words used from which it can reasonably be implied. It would, indeed, be a most unusual one, and
we believe without precedent in any charter heretofore granted
by any State in this Union. For the power claimed is the
right to demand toll from every citizen who passes through the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

185

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

canal, and to fix the amount at the discretion of the corporation. In form, it is true, the demand is made on the oyner of
the vessel engaged in transporting passengers; but it is immaterial to the passenger whether he is charged with the toll iti
the increased price of his passage, or by a direct tax upon himself. In either case the result is the same, and the power exercised is the same. Such an unlimited power to levy contributions on the public, and one so inconsistent with the ordinary
course of legislation upon that subject, and, we may add, so
unjust and injurious to the public, ought not to be sustained in
a court of justice, unless it is conferred in plain and express
words. It should not be inferred where the slightest doubt
could arise, and the words are capable of any other construction; and still less can it be inferred in a charter like this,
where the toll granted upon goods and property of every kind
is so carefully specified and fixed in the law, and the charter
altogether silent in relation to passengers. The contrary inference would seem to be irresistible.
We proceed to the examination of the second question certified. This point has been strongly pressed upon the court, and
the argument on the part of the canal company has addressed
itself chiefly tq the case of passenger boats, without commodities or goods on board. But it is evident that the point
must resolve itself into this, - Can they refuse permission to a
boat laden with merchandise to pass through the canal, provided it has a passenger on board, and refuses to put him out.
For so far as the right to pass through the -canal is concerned,
there is no distinction in the charters between passenger vessels and freight vessels, nor between vessels with a single passenger, and one with a multitude of passengers; nor between
vessels with both cargo and passengers, and vessels with passengers only. The acts of incorporation make no distinction between either of these classes of boats, and we therefore can
make none; and if the power claimed for the corporation exists
as to one class, it must exist as to all.
The clauses mainly relied on by the counsel for the company are the ninth and plevernth sections of the Maryland
charter, the language of these sections being adopted i--. the
charters of the two other State's. Theninth specifies the tolls
vwhich the company may demand, and after enumerating most
of the principal and usual articles of inland commerce, and
graduating the toll on some of them according to the quantity
on board, and on others according to the weight, it concludes the
enumeration in the following words: "And for all other commodities the same proportion, agre16 -

185

SUPR EME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

able to the articles herein enumerated, and every boat or vessel
which has not commodities on board to pay the sum of four
dollars shall pay so much as, with the commodities on board,
will yield the sum aforesaid, and every empty boat or vessel
four dollars, except an empty boat or vessel returning whose
load has already paid the tolls affixed, in which case she shall
repass toll free, provided such boat or vessel shall return within fourteen days after paying said tolls."
Upon a fair construction of the language of this section, we
think that this canal was intended to be a public highway, and
that every boat- or vessel suited to its navigation was to be at
liberty to pass through, upon the payment of the tolls therein
specified. And if nothing was on board upon which toll
could be demanded, it still had a right to pass, upon payment
of the toll imposed upon the vessel. And this construction becomes the more evident when this section is taken in tonnection with the one next following (the tenth), which authorizes
the collector of the tolls to refuse passage to a vessel neglecting
or refusing to pay "the toll" at the time of offering to pass.
The words "the toll" in this section plainly and necessarily
refer to the tolls enumerated in the preceding one. The refusal to pay them is the only case in which a power is given to
stop the boat. And as no toll is given on passengers, or on the
vessel on account of its passengers, it follows that a passage
could not be refused to a vessel on account of its passengers,
because there could be no refusal to pay the toll authorized by
l4w; and the right to refuse the vessel being given in one
specified case, and in none other, it is an implied restrictioil of
the right to the particular case provided for.
But it is said that the right of the public to use the canal as
a highway is restricted by the eleventh section, and confined
to vessels engaged in the transportation of goods, commodities,
and produce. The material words of that section are as follows: "That the said canal and the works to be erected thereon in
virtue of this act, when completed, shall for ever thereafter be
esteemed and taken to be navigable as a public highway, free
for the transportation of all goods, commodities, 'or produce
whatsoever, on payment of the toll imposed by this act."
It is insisted, on the part of the corporation, that the words
free for the transportation of all goods, commodities, and produce whatsoever," restrict the words which make it a highway,
and limit the privileges of the public, to the transportation
through it of goods, commodities, and produce.
But this construction can hardly be maintained, upon any

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

187

Ferrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

just rule for the interpretation of statutes. It would be inconsistent with the clause in the ninth section, hereinbefore set
forth, which authorizes the passage of vessels which have, no
commodities on board. This construction would confine the
right to those actually engaged in the transportation of goods.
And if the canal was to be a bighway for goods, commodities,
and produce only, the privilege of the vessel would be derived
altogether from the goods, and consequently a vessel without
goods might be refused a passage, notwithstanding the express
provision that she shall be entitled to go through. An interpretation of the statute which would lead to this result, and
render different sections inconsistent with each other, cannot
be the true one. The error consists in treating words, which
were intended as a limitation of the powers cf the corporation,
as a restriction upon the rights of the public. In the opinion
of the court, the words in question were intended to guard
against the exaction of other or higher tolls than those given
by the law, and not to restrict the. right of passage. The
clause in question declares that the canal shall be free for all
goods, commodities, and produce whatever, upon payment of
the toll imposed by law; meaning obviously, that no other or
higher toll should be demanded. They were not intended to
restrict the provision immediately preceding, that the canal
should be a highway, but" more effectually to secure the right
of the public by restricti.g the toll to be demanded to the toll
imposed by the act. They were introduced like the provision
in the charter from Pennsylvania hereinbefore mentioned, which
.prohibits the company from exercising any powers but such as
are set forth in the charter, or necessarily incident to a corporation. Neither of these provisions was necessary, but they
were introduced- as measures of precaution, to guard against
strained and forced inferences, which the desire of gain might
induce the corporation to make, injurious to the rights of the
public, and contrary to the intention of the Legislature. The
right claiiied by this corporation, therefore, can find no justification in the language and provisions of the sections relied on
in the argument. It can find as little support from the general
and known usages of trade and travel, at the time it was incorporated.
It is true that,.wher these charters were granted, travelling
by water was inconsiderable and unimportant compared with
what it now is, and nobody anticipated the immense increase
which the invention of steam navigation has produced. But it
is equally true, that, in every country where traffic and trade
have been carried on by water, it has been the custom of yes-

MS8

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

sels engaged in the transportation of merchandise to carry passangers, and to have vessels thus engaged fitted in many instances with better accommodations than others, in order to induce travellers to take passage in them, and thereby increase
the profits of the navigation in which they were engaged. In
Maryland, with its broad bay, its great number of navigable tidewater rivers interrupting travel by land, its numerous villages
and towns on their banks, and its commercial metropolis seated
at the head of the bay, it cannot be doubted that this usage
prevailed extensively, and that vessels engaged in the transportation of produce or merchandise, or returning empty from
market, habitually carried passengers, from whom they received
a compensation. And a large portion of the members of the
Legislature who voted oh this charter, and who represented the
counties on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, must have been in
the habit of coming to the seat of government by water, and as
passengers on board of a vessel, engaged either in the transportation of merchandise, or. melely in the transportation of passengers. The Legislature, therefore, in incorporating this company, certainly acted with a full knowledge of this usage, and
the general custom of travelling by water. Can it, then, be supposed, that, in opening this new communication, they meant to
authorize the company to interdict the passage of its citizens as
passengers through the. canal? that, without any imaginable
motive, they should deprive the public of the cheapest and
most convenient mode of passing from the Chesapeake Bay to
the. city of Philadelphia? and that, while they took so much
pains to make the canal a highway for property from any part
of the United States, they yet authorized the company to shut
it against persons, although those persons were citizens of their
own State? We see "nothing in the law that can justify the
court in imputing to the Legislature such an object. It would
be so utterly inconsistent with the policy of the States, and
such an unnecessary and uncalled for interference with the
hlibits, usages, and convenience of their citizens, that such an
intention ought not to be inferred from obscure or doubtful
words. But we see nothing that can be regarded as doubtful
or obscure, in relation to this subject; on the contrary, it is
clear that every vessel suited to the navigation of the canal is
authorized to pass through, upon the payment of t'I toll imposed by law. There is none imposed by law on persons or
passengers. And there is no distinction in the charters between
vessels with or without passengers.
It is very possible, indeed, if the improvements in steam navigation could have been foreseen, and the great increase of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

189

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

travel and intercourse it would produce, that the Legislktures
of the States might in some form or other have allowed a toll
with reference to passengers, as a compensation for the facilities
afforded by the canal. But it is not the province of this court
to enlarge the powers of a corporation beyond the limitations
of the charter, because circumstances have changed. Our
province is to expound the law as it stands, not to determine
whether larger powers would not have been given if the Legislature had anticipated events which have since happened. Besides, the question we are now discussing is not whether the
company is entitled to demand toll from passengers or not, but
whether it may refuse them passage through the canal. We
have already shown, in a previous part of this opinion, that,
upon well-settled principles for the construction of charters, as
established by the decisions of this court, and uniformly acted
on, the company are not entitled to take toll from passengers.
Arid not being authorized to receive toll, we are now inquiring
whether it may deny them the right to pass through. The
unexpected increase of travel would certainly be no reason for
clothing it with this power. It would rather be a reason for
withholding it. For whatever ground there might be in the
present state of things to induce the Legislatures of the, States
to allow some toll on"account of passengers, it can be no reason
for denying them the liberty to pass; since the increased number of travellers would make the refusal more extensively felt
than at the time the charters were granted.
The word "empty" in the ninth clause of the charter, hereinbefore set out' has been commented on and some stress laid
upon it. It is said that the right of passage is given only to
vessels with commodities on board, or empty vessels; and that,
as a vessel full of passengers cannot be said to be empty, the
right of passage is not given. Certainly a vessel full of passengers cannot be said to be empty of passengers. But the charter does not speak of a vessel empty of passengers, but empty
of goods; that is, without cargo. Looking at the word as it
stands in the law, and the provision with which it is associated,
its true sense cannot be mistaken. The section declares that
every vessel, not having commodities on board sufficient to pay
the toll of four dollars, shall pay so much as, with the commodities on board, will yield that sum, and every empty boat or
vessel shall pay four dollars. The word "empty," as here used,
evidentlr means without cargo. The law is speaking of cargo,
and of cargo only, and not of persons or passengers. In its
brotdesc sense, a vessel is not perfectly empty when she has a
c'ew on board, or ballast, or the ordinary supplies for the crew.

SUPREME COURT.
Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

But we cannot take out of a statute a single'word susceptible
of different meanings, and expound it without reference to the
context, and without any regard to the subject-matter of which
the legislature is speaking, or to the provisions and language
with which it is associated. The-rules for the construction of
statutes in this respect are familiar and well established, and
cannot at this day need argument or illustration. The meaning of the word, when it is susceptible of different interpretations, must be determined from the context, and the subjectmatter of which the law-makers are speaking. If a different
rule were adopted, the court would in most cases defeat the intention of the legislature, instead of performing its legitimate
office of carrying it into execution. In the case before the
court, the word "empty" must be separated from the context,
and applied to a subject of which the Legislature is not speaking, and which does not appear to have been in its mind at the
time; that is, to passengers instead of merchandise, in order to
deduce an argument from it in support of the power claimed
by the. corporation.
Besides,-the corporation does not place its defence, nor does
it claim the right to refuse a passage to the vessel, upon that
ground. The right it insists upon in its answer and resolutions is, the absolute and unqualified right to refuse a passage
to a vessel with passengers, whether she has a cargo or not, and
whether she has a single passenger or a multitude. And this,
indeed, is the true and only question that can be in controversy. For there is no justification whatever to be found in the
law for taking a distinction between a single passenger and
many passengers, or between passengers in a vessel full of cargo, and a vessel entirely without cargo and engaged in the passenger trade. If a passage through may be refused in one of
these cases, it may be in all. Nor does the company claim that
there is any distinction between passenger vessels and vessels
intended for the transportation of goods. For it admits, in its
correspondence with the complainant, that his vessel, although
described as a passenger vessel, would be entitled to pass, provided he first landed his passengers, or would pay the toll on
them demanded by the company. The right it claims relates
only to persons on board, and not to the character, or pursuits,
or objects of the vessel.
Indeed, if the right claimed by the company turned upon the
construction of the word "empty," and the meaning suggested
in the argument could be maintained, the dispute would be of
very little importance, in point of emolument, either to the corporation or the navigator. For almost every vessel engaged in

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

191

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

the transportation of passengers would usually, upon this line
of navigation, have on board some article liable to toll. And if
she had any cargo, however small, she would not pass as an,
empty vessel, but as a vessel with commodities on board, and
be liable as such to pay so much as would make up the amount
of ioll imposed by law. If the power of the company to prohibit, therefore, is confined to vessels entirely without cargo, it
*ould be of no great importance to them. But there is so littie foundation in reason, in policy, or in the language of the
law, for making a distinction between a vessel with a single
box or bale of goods, and one without any, that no one, we
presume, will seriously contend for it. Certainly the company
relies upon no such distinction. It claims the right against all
passenger vessels, whether they have cargo on board or are
empty of cargo.
Nor do we think that any force can be given to the argument, that the transportation of passengers might require so
much of the water of the canal as to destroy its usefulness in
the transportation of produce. The supply demanded for a
vessel with cargo would not be enhanced by the passengers on
board. Nor would she be entitled to increase her speed on
that account, so as to injure the banks of the canal. Nor can
the scarcity or abundance of water influence the construction
of the charter. But a conclusive answer'to this argument is,
that no such objection appears in the record. There is no evidence upon the subject, and the company, in. its answer to the
complaintnt's application, suggests no difficulty in the supply
of water, nor that there is hazard of interruption to the transportation of produce on the canal, or danger to its banks. Indeed, they give the complainant to understand, that they are entirely able to comply with his proposal, and say that they will
pass his boat through if he will land his passengers or pay toll
upon them. They refuse upon the 'ground that they are entitled to toll, and place their defence on no other.
There is nothing in the record to show when this right was
first claimed by the company, nor whether it is a new one recently thought of,'or one which' the company claimed and exercised from the time the canal went into operation. Evidently,
it was not the construction given to the charters, either by the
Legislature or the corporation, while the work was in the course
of construction. For while it was in progress, subscriptions to
the stock were proposed by Maryland and Pennsylvania, by
laws reciting the advantages which this canal- would afford to
the United States, in transporting inland its armies and munitions of war. These recitals show that persons as well as

192

SUPREME COURT.
Perriiie-v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

property. were to pass through, and that it was expected to be
a convenience for the transportation of persons, as well as of

property.
Upon the whole, therefore$ -whether we look to the obvious
policy of the compact between the States, under which this
work was constructed, as indicated by their respective charters,
or to the general and established usages of inland navigation at
the time the charters were granted, or to the language of the
several acts which define the powers of the corporation, we see
no ground for maintaining the right now claimed. And this
decision would be the same if the rule of construction in relation to corporations was reversed, and every intendment was to
be made in favor of the corporation and against the public.
For if we gave to the charters the most liberal interpretation
in favor of the company, yet there is nothing in them which
even upon this principle could, in the judgment of this court,
bear the construction insisted on by the canal company, nor
confer the powers which it claims to exercise.
But the rule of construction in cases of this description, as
recogtized by this court in the case of the Charles River Bridge
v. The Warren Bridge, is this, - that any ambiguity in the terms
of the grant must operate against the corporation and in favor
of the public, and the corporation can claim nothing that is not
clearly given by the law. We do not mean to say that the
charter is to receive a strained and unreasonable interpretation,
contrary to the obvious intention of the grant. It must be
fEirly examined and considered, and reasonably and justly expounded. But if, upon such an examination, there is doubt or
ambiguity in its terms, and the power claimed is not clearly
given, it cannot be exercised. The rights of the public are
never presumed to be, surrendered to a corporation, unless the
intention to surrender clearly appears in the law.
The questions before us are of high importance to the community, and they are emphatically questions between the rights
of the public and the powers of the corporation. The privilege
of making this canal, and of receiving tolls upon it, was granted
by the States without any compensation to the public but the
convenience it was expected to afford. The States, as well as
the United States, have contributed to the expense of its construction. And the court is called upon to decide whether the
States who chartered this company have authorized it to exact
any amount of toll it may think proper from their own citizens,
as well as others, for the lrivilege of passing over it; or may,
if such be its interest or policy, refuse altogether the permission
to pass.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

198

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Caiki Co.

In the opinion of the court, the charters do not,confer either
of these powers upon the corporation, and we shall certify accordingly to the Circuit Court.
M. Justice McLEAN, Mr. Justice NELSON, and Mr. Justice
WOODBURY dissented.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
This, like all other and similar corporations, has its rights
and privileges defined in its charter, and also the duties imposed
upon it. The eleventh section provides, "that the said canal
and the works to be erected thereon in virtue of this act, when
completed, shall for ever thereafter be esteemed and taken to be
navigable as a public highway, free for the transportation of all
goods, commodities, or produce whatsoever, on payment of the
toll imposed by this act" ; 'i and no toll or tax for the use of the
water of the said canal, and the works thereon erected, shall
at any time hereafter be imposed by all or either of the said
States."1
By the ninth section, a great number of articles are specified,
for which the company is authorized to charge certain rates of
toll, "and for every gross hundred weight of all other commodities or packages ten cents, and for all other commodities
the same proportion, agreeable to the articles herein enumeiated;
and every boat or vessel, which has not commodities on board
to pay the- sum of four dollars, shall pay so much as, with the
commodities on board, will yield that sum; and eve:y empty
boat or vessel four dollars, except an empty boat or vessel returning, whose load has already paid the tolls affixed, in which
case she shall repass toll-free, provided such boat or vessel shall
return within fourteen days after paying said tolls."
And the tenth section declares, "In case of refusal or neglect
to pay the toll at the time of offering to pass a vessel through
the canal, the collector shall have the right to refuse a passage."
The defendant claims the right to run a line of packet-boats
for passengers, to connect with steamboats at the termini of the
canal; and the following questions are stated for our decision.
First, Is the canal company entitled to charge the compensation or toll mentioned in the proceedings, for passengers on
board the complainant's boats passing through the canal ?
Second, "Has the complainant a right to navigate the canal
for the transportation of passengers, with passenger boats, paying or cffering to pay .toll upon the boats as emnpty boats, or
upon commodities on board, but without toll or compensation
for passengers ? "
VOL. IX.

17

194

SUPREME

COURT.

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

I think the first question must be considered in the negative,
that the company have not the right to tax passengers one dollar each, or any other sum, for passing in a boat on the canal.
They have no special authority to tax passengers in the act
of incorporation, and, consequently, they cannot exercise any
powers as a corporation except those which are given in the
act.
I answer the second question also in the negative, that the
complainant in the Circuit Court has " no right to navigate the
canal for the transportation of passengers, with passenker boats,
paying toll as for empty boats." The charter does not require
this of the company, and the public can make no exactions
upon the company, as accommodf±ion, -which the law does not
impose upon them as a duty. The rights of the public and
of the company must be determined by a construction of the
charter.
What rights are reserved in the charter to the public? The
eleventh section, above cited, declares the canal shall "1be taken
to be navigable as a public highway, free for the transportation
of all goods, commodities, or produce whatsoever, on payment
of the tolls imposed." The right of the public then is, to use
the canal for the purposes stated, "on paying the tolls imposed." Does the right extend beyond this? It does not, in
my judgment, if the section be construed by any known rule
of construction.
This was the contract made with the company by the public. And is it not as binding on the one party as the other?
The right on both sides is founded in contract. The company
agreed to construct the work, and keep it in repair, on the conditions stated. Can these conditions be changed at the will of
either party ? If the pdiblic can make exactions beyond the
charter, there is an end to chartered rights.
The right of transportation on this canal is given to the public, on the payment of toll, and without the payment of toll
there is no such right. A boat returning empty, "whose load
has already paid the tolls," is not charged. But an empty boat,
under other circumstances, is charged four dollars. If it have
commodities on board which pay less than four dollars, the
boat shall be required to make up that sum. And here is the
whole extent of the right of the company to exact toll, and of
the. right of the public to use the canal.
The conveyance of passengers was not provided for in the
6harter. The transportation of the commodities specified, and
the passage of empty boats, were the only cbligations, in this
respect, imposed on the company. But a majority of my

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

195

Perrine v. Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.

brethren have implied a right in the defendant to transport
passengers without the payment of toll. The baggage of the
passengers, if they have any, may be char&d as commodities,
but the owners of the baggage are as nothing; they are nonentities while on board the packet passenger boats on this
canal; in fact, within the meaning of the charter, the boats are
empty. This would seem to me to be rather a strained construction. I cannot persuade myself that the law-makers, -when
they authorized a tax of four dollars on an empty boat, intended to include a boat .ull of passengers.
We know that passenger boats afford a better profit than
freight boats; and every one knows, from the more rapid movement of the former, -they do more injury to the embankments
of a canal than freight boats.
But it is asked in the argument, if a freight boat can be refused a passage if it have one passenger on board. Every boat
must have hands on board of it to take care of the cargo and
navigate the boat. And it is presumed that a strict inquiry is
rarely, if ever, made, as to a single passenger on board. But I
submit that this is. no test of the principle involved. Th? right
asserted is to run a line of packets exclusively for the accommodation of passengers. This will impose a duty, and a most
onerous one, on the company, which, I think, is not within
their charter.
If a canal-boat must be construed and taxed as empty, which
is not laden with the commodities specified, I know not how
deeply it may affect our internal navigation. All these questions are of great importance, and should not be influenced by
presumed notions of policy. They are. matters of right, as
they may affect corporations, arising under contract.
Should the transportation of passengers be desirable to the
company, they could, no doubt, by application to the legislative
power, obtain a modification of their charter, in this respect,
that shall be just to them and advantageous to the public. But
as the present charter imposes no obligation on the company to
transport passengers on the canal, and does not aurhorize them
to charge a toll for such a service, this court have no power to
require from them such a duty. It is not our province to make
contracts, but to construe them. But this maxim, universally
admitted, could give no security to chartered rights, if, by judicial construction, they may be made to include a service not
expressed nor fairly implied.
It is well settled, that, where the law does not authorize toll,
it cannot be charged. This is admitted and sustained by a majority of the court; and this necessarily, I think, exonerates the

