386

SUPREME COURT.
Hill et al. v. The United States et al.

WILLIAM J. HILL, DAVID M. PORTER, AND WILLIAM
THE UNITED STATES ET AL.

F. WALKER,

V.

Where the United States, as indorsees of a promissory note, recovered judgment
against the makers thereof, who thereupon filed a bill upon the equity side of the
court, and obtained an injunction to stay proceedings, this injanqtion was improvidently allowed.
Tbe United States were made directly parties defendants; process was prayed immediately against them, and they were called upon to answer the several allegations in the bill
This course of proceeding falls within the principle that the government is not liable
to be sued, except by its own consent, given by law.
The bill must therefore be dismissed.
THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the Southern District of Mississippi, upon a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was a bill filed on the equity side of the court, by Hill
and the other complainants, against the United States, the
Mississippi and Alabama Railroad Company, William M. Gwin,
and William H. Shelton, to enjoin a judgment obtained
against the cbmplainants by the United States.
The circumstances were these.
In 1835, the receiver of public moneys for the Choctaw district in the State of Mississippi was found to be in debt to the
government.
On the 26th of September, 1835, the Solicitor of the Treasury issued a distress warrant, under the act of May, 1820, for
the purpose of collecting the debt, and inclosed it to William
M. Gwin, then Marshal of the United States for the State oO
Mississippi.
The history of the transaction between 1835 and 1839 need
not be stated.
In 1839, the marshal, by direction of the Solicitor qnd Secretary of the Treasury, received from the representative of the
debtor (who was then dead) the sum of $ 30,000 in the notes
of the Mississippi and Alabama Railroad Company, as collateral security for the debt, for the collection of which he had a
distress warrant. The Railroad Company, in order to avoid a
suit upon its notes, transferred to the District Attorney upwards of $ 78,000 of bills receivable of the bank. Amongst
these bills receivable was a promissory note for four thousand
dollars, dated on the 12th- of April, 1838, payable six months
after date to the Mississippi and Alabama Railroad Company,
-iegotiable and payable at their banking-house in Brandon, and
signed by William J. Hill, J. S. Rowland, D. M. Porter, and
W. F. Walker.' The note was joint and several; Hill was the
principal, and the others sureties.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

87

Hill et aL v. The United States et al.

On the 15th of June, 1839, the District Attorney brought
suit upon the note, in the name of the United States, against
all the parties, and at November term obtained judgment.
In January, 1840, a fi. fa. was issud, and in May, 1840,
Hill, Porter, and Walker filed a bill on the equity'side of the
court against the United States, the Mississippi and Alabama
Railroad Company, William M. Gwin, and William H. Shelton, setting up certain equities, which need not be here particularly stated, and praying for an injunction, which was granted.
All the parties answered, the bistrict Attorney answering on
behalf of the United States.
In May, 1846, the cause was set down for hearing, upon the
bill, answers, and exhibits.
In November, 1846, the following proceedings took place.
The UnitedrStates, by attorney, made the following motion,
to wit:"Motion by R. M. Gaines, U. S. Attorney, to dissolve tjie
injunction and dismiss the bill, as to the United States, for
want of jurisdiction as to them, and also on the merits.
"R. M. GAINs, U. S. Att'y.
"And afterwards, to wit, at the May term, A. D. 1847, of
said court, to wit, on the 20th day of May, in the year of our
Lord 1847, this cause came on to be heard before the Honorable Peter V. Daniel and Samuel J.Gholson, upon the motion
of the United States of America to dismiss this suit as to'them,
and dissolve the injunction, for want of jurisdiction, and was
argued by counsel. And the court having taken time to consider, and not being able to agree in opinion what decree should
be made in the cause on said motion, one of the judges being of
opinion that the said motion should be sustained, and the said
bill dismissed and injunction dissolved, and the other being of
opinion that the said motion should be overruled, it is therefore
ordered, at the request of the counsel for both complainants and
defendants, that said difference of opinion be certified to the
Supreme Court of the United States for their decision, whether
the said motion should be sustained or overruled.
"P. V. DANIEL.
S. J. GOrLSON.?'

Upon this certificate the case accordingly came up.
It was argued by Mtlr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for the
United States, no counsel appearing upon the other side. He
contended that, the United States not being liable to be sued

388

SUPRE4ME COURT.
Hill et al. v. The United States et al.

except with its own consent given by law, and there being no
law giving such consent in this case, jurisdiction did not exist,
and cited the case of United States v. McLemore, 4 Howard,
286.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us from the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Mississippi, upon a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges on the following facts and questions certified from that court.

The United States, as the indorsees of the Mississippi and
Alabama Railroad Company, instituted an action of assumpsit
in the court above mentioned, on a promissory note given by
William J. Hill, J.S. Rowland, D. M. Porter, and W. F.
Walker to the said railroad company, for the' sum of four
thousand dollars. At the November term of the court in 1839,
the United States, upon a trial at law upon issues joined, first,
upon the plea of non-assumpsit, and secondly, upon the plea of
payment of the note before its indorsement and delivery to the
plaintiffs, obtained a verdict and judgment in damages for the
sum of $ 4,353.32. Upon the suing out of an execution on
this judgment, the defendants filed a bill on the equity side of
the Circuit Court, and obtained from the District Judge.an injunction, upon grounds which perhaps might, under the pleadings in the cause, have been as regularly insisted upon at law,
between the proper parties, as they could be in equity; but
whether forming a well-founded defence at law, or not, is immaterial in the inquiry now presented. In the bill filed by
Hill and others, the United States are made directly parties defendafits; process is prayed immediately against them; they
are called upon to answer the several allegations in the bill, and
a perpetual injunction is prayed for to the judgment obtained
by them. To the bill of the complainants the attorney for the
United States filed in their behalf an answer in extenso, but
afterwards moved the court to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the bill as to the United States, for want of jurisdiction as
to them, upon which motion the order and certificate now before this court were made in the following terms: -"

And

afterwards, to wit, at the May term of said court, viz. on the
20th day of May, A. D. 1847, this cause came on to be heard
before the Hon. Peter V. Daniel and Samuel J. Gho]son, upon
the motion of the United States of America to dismiss this suit
as to them, and dissolve the injunction for want of jurisdiction,
and was argued by counsel. And the court having taken time
to consider, and not being able to-agree in opinion what decree

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

3S9

Hill et al. v. The United States et al.

should be made in the cause on said motion, one of thfe judges
being of opinion that the said motion should be sustained, and
the said bill dismissed and injunction dissolved, and the other
being of opinion that the said motion should be overruled, it is
therefore ordered, at the request of the counsel for both complainants and defendants, that said difference of opinion be certified to the Supreme Court of the United States for their decision, whether the said motion should be sustained or overruled."
The question here propounded, without any nncessity for recurrence to particular examples, would seem to mr.et its solutibn in the regular and best-settled principles of public law.
No maxim is thought to be better established, or more universally assented to, than that which ordains that a sovereign, or a
government representing the sovereign, cannot ex delicto be
amenable to its own creatures or agents employed under its
own authority for the fulfilment merely of its own legitimate
ends. A departure from this maxim can be sustained only
upon the ground of permission on the part of the sovereign or
the government expressly declared, and an attempt to overrule
or to impair it on a foundation independently of such permission must involve an inconsistency and confusion, both in theory and practice, subversive of regulated order or power. Upon
the principle here stated it has been, that, in cases of private
grievance proceeding from the crown, the petition of right in
England has been the nearest approach to an adversary position
to the government that has been tolerated; and upon the same
principle it is that, in our own country, in instances of imperfect
land titles, special legislation has been adopted to permit the
jurisdiction of the courts upon the rights of the government.
Without dilating upon the propriety' or necessity of the principle here stated, or seeking to. multiply examples of its enforcement, we content ourselves with referring to a single and
recent case in this court, which appears to cover the one now
before us in all itd features. We allude to the case of the United
States v. McLemore, in 4 Howard, 286, where it is broadly laid
down as the law, that a Circuit Court cannot entertain a bill on
the equity side of the court, praying that the United States
may be perpetually enjoined from l roceeding upon djudgment
obtained by them, as the government is not liable to be sued,
except by its own consent given by law' We therefore direct
it to be certified to the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi, that the motion on behalf of the United States
i4 this cause should have been sustained, and that the bill as to
33*

390

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

the United States should be dismissed, as having been improvidently allowed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and on the point or question on
which the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in
opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is the opinion of this court, that the motion in behalf of the
United States in this cause should have been sustained, and
that the bill as to the United States should be dismissed, as
having been improvidently allowed. Whereupon it is now
here ordered and decreed by this court, that it be so certified to
the said Circuit Court.

WILLIAM H.

TAYLOE, APPELLANT, V. THE MERCHANTs'
suRANCE COmIPANY Or BALTIM'ORE.

FIRE IN-

Where there was a correspondence relating to the insurance of a house against fire,
the insurance company making known the terms upon which they were willing to
insure, the contract was complete when the insured placed a letter in the postoffice accepting the terms.
The house having been burned down whilst the letter of acceptance was in progress
by the mail the company were held responsible.
On the acceptance of the terms proposed, transmitted by due course of mail to the
company, the minds of both parties have met on the sub ject, in the mode contemplated at the time of entering upon the negotiation, and the contract becomes complete.
The practice of this company was to date a policy from the time when the acceptance was made known to their agent.
The agent of the company having instructed the applicant to "send him his check
for the premium, and the business was done," the transmission of the check by
mail was a sufficient payment of the premium within th, terms of the policy.
One of the conditions annexed to the policy was, that preliminary proofs of the loss
should be furnished to the company within a reasonable time. The fire occurred
on the 22d of December, 1844, and the preliminary proofs were furnished on ther
.24th of November, 1845. This would have been too late, but that the company
must be considered to have waived their being furnished, by refusing to issue a
policy, ana denying their responsibility altogether.
The cases in 2 Peters, 25, and 10 Peters, 507, examined.
A court of equity, having obtained jurisdiction to enforce a specific performance of
the contract by compelling the company to issue a policy, can proceed to give such
final relief as the circumstances of the case demand.
A prayer for general relief in this case covers and includes a prayer for specifie performance.

