578

SUPREME COURT.
Simpson v. The United States.

limited to the cutting of live-oak or red-cedar timber; here it
is enlarged to the cutting of live-oak or red-cedar trees "or
other timber," thereby removing the restriction in the act of
1817. In other respects, the two acts are substantially the
same.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, for
.the want of jurisdiction in that court, and that this dause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court,
-with directions to quash the indictment and discharge the prisoner.

EZEKIEL SIDIPSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.

In error to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, under the eighth section of the act of
Congress passed February 22, 1847, to, bring up-the judgment
of the United States District Court for the Northern'District of
Florida for review.
The indictment upon which the prisoner was convicted was
founded uponk.the act of Congress passed March 2, 1831, and
the case; as appears from the record, agrees in all resp, cts with
the case of Forsyth v. The United States, just decided, and to
the opinion in which ive refer for our judgment in this case.
The motion on behalf of the Attorney-General to dismiss the
writ of error for want of jurisdiction is denied, and the judgment of the court below reversed, and the proceedings remitted
to the court, with direction to quash the indictment and discharge the prisoner from his recognizance, or imprisonment, as
the chse may be.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

579

Cotton v. The United States.

ord from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Florida, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, for
the want of jurisdiction in that court, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court,
with directions to quash the indictment and discharge the
prisoner.

LOFTIN COTTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.
In the preceding case of Forsyth v. The United States, this court decided that the
act of Congress passed on the 22d of February, 1847 (Seas. Laws, 1847, chap. 17),
gave jurisdiction to this court to review certain classes of cases brought up from
the Territorial courts of Florida.
A motion to dismiss one of these cases, for want of jurisdiction, must be denied.

IN error to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a motion on the part of the Attorney-General, to dismiss the writ of error for the want of jurisdiction.
The suit was brought by the United States against the defendant in the Superior Court of the District of West Florida,
in the late Territory of Florida, for a trespass on government
lands.
The declaration was filed in December term, 1844; and the
plea of not guilty, in the vacation thereafter, on the 26th of
March, 1845.
The cause remained pending in said court, or without any
further proceedings therein, until the 15th of January, 1848,
when the records and papers in the same were transferred to,
and filed in, the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Florida, in pursuance of the act of the 22d of February, 1S47 (Sess. Laws, ch. 17, ยง 8), and at the January term
of the court, 1848, held at Tallahassee, it was ordered that the
cause be docketed and stand for trial at the-next March term
of the said court, to be holden at Pensacola,Jff-tibe of which
order was given to the defendant. At the March term, the de-,
fendant appeared, and on leave filed a demurrer to the. declara-

