SUPREME COURT.
Bayard v. Lombard et al.
JOSEPH H. DULLES, EDWARD WILCOX, AND JOHN WELSH, PLAINTIFFS
IN ERROR, v. RICHARD S. JONES.

THig case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District. Court for the Northern District of Mississippi:
In its main features it was similar to the preceding case of
The Barik of the State of Alabama v. Dalton, and it will be perceived, by a reference to the concluding sentence of the opinion
of the court in that case, that it included the present. No
further report need, therefore, be made of it.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Northem District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said District Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HENRY M. BAYARD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ISRAEL LO1BARD AND
CHARLES 0. WHITMORE.
Where land was sold under an execution, and the money arsing therefrom about to
be distributed amongst creditors by an order of the Circuit Court, a controversy
* between the creditors as to the priority of their respective judgments cannot be
brought td this court, either by appeal or writ of error.
Although the State in which the judgment was given allowed appeals, by statute, in
similar cases arising in the courts of the State, yet it -does not follow from the
adoption of the forms of process in execution that the courts of the United States
adopted the modes of reviewing the decisions of inferior courts.
An appeal to this court is given in chancery cases alone.
Nor is the case a proper one for a writ of error. Such a writ cannot be sued out by
persons who are not parties to the record, in a matter arising after execution, by
strangers to the judgment and proceedings, and where the error assigned is in an
order of the court disposing of certain funds in- their possession accidentally connected with the record.
The creditors should have filed their bill in equity, or stated an issue in due legal
form; with proper parties, setting forth the merits of their respective claims,in order
to lay the foundation for an appeal or writ of error to this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.

On the 25th of July, 1845, a judgment was entered on a
bond and warrant of attorney, given by Henry M. Bayard to
Israel Lombard and Charles 0. Whitmore, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,

