OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Syllabus

AUCIELLO IRON WORKS, INC. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT
No. 95-668.

Argued April 22, 1996-Decided June 3, 1996

The day after petitioner Auciello Iron Works's outstanding contract offer
was accepted by its employees' collective-bargaining representative
(Union), Auciello disavowed the agreement because of its good-faith
doubt, based on knowledge acquired before the offer's acceptance, that
a majority of its employees supported the Union. The National Labor
Relations Board ruled, inter alia,that Auciello's withdrawal from it was
an unfair labor practice in violation of the National Labor Relations Act
and ordered that the agreement be reduced to a formal written instrument. The First Circuit enforced the order as reasonable.
Held The Board reasonably concluded that an employer commits an unfair labor practice when it disavows a collective-bargaining agreement
because of a good-faith doubt about a union's majority status at the time
the contract was made, when the doubt arises from facts known to the
employer before the union accepted its contract offer. Pp. 785-792.
(a) In its efforts to achieve the Act's object of industrial peace and
stability fostered by collective-bargaining relationships, see, e. g., Fall
River Dyeing & Finishing Corp. v. NLRB, 482 U. S. 27, 38, the Board
has held that a union is entitled to, inter alia, a conclusive presumption
of majority status during a collective-bargaining agreement's term, up
to three years, see, e. g., NLRB v. Burns Int'l Security Services, Inc.,
406 U. S. 272, 290, n. 12. Upon the contract's expiration, the employer
may rebut the presumption of majority status by showing that it has a
good-faith doubt, founded on a sufficient objective basis, of the union's
majority support. NLRB v. Curtin Matheson Scientific, Inc., 494 U. S.
775, 778. Auciello's assertion that an employer may raise the latter
defense even after a contract period has apparently begun to run upon
a union's acceptance of an outstanding offer is rejected. Pp. 785-787.
(b) The same need for repose that first prompted the Board to adopt
the rule presuming a union's majority status during its collectivebargaining agreement's term also led the Board in this case to rule out
an exception for the benefit of an employer with doubts arising from
facts antedating the contract. The Board's judgment in the matter is
entitled to prevail. Auciello's argument for case-by-case determinations of the appropriate time for asserting a good-faith doubt in place of

AUCIELLO IRON WORKS, INC. v. NLRB
Opinion of the Court
the Board's bright-line rule cutting off the opportunity at the moment
of apparent contract formation fails to point up anything unreasonable
in the Board's position. Its approach generally allows companies an
adequate chance to act on their preacceptance doubts before contract
formation, and Auciello's view would encourage bad-faith bargaining by
employers. The Board could reasonably conclude that giving employers flexibility in raising their good-faith doubts would not be worth
skewing bargaining relationships by such one-sided leverage, and the
fact that any collective-bargaining agreement might be vulnerable to
such a postformation challenge would hardly serve the Act's goal of
achieving industrial peace by promoting stable collective-bargaining
relationships. Moreover, rejection of the Board's position is not compelled by the statutory right of employees to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing and to refrain from doing
so. The Board is entitled to suspicion when faced with an employer's
benevolence as its workers' champion against their certified union, and
there is nothing unreasonable in giving a short leash to an employer as
vindicator of its employees' organizational freedom. Pp. 787-790.
(c) Garment Workers v. NLRB, 366 U. S. 731, 738-739, does not compel reversal; its rule concerning recognition agreements is not inconsistent with this decision. The Board reasonably found an employer's precontractual, good-faith doubt inadequate to support an exception to the
conclusive presumption arising at the moment a collective-bargaining
contract offer has been accepted. Pp. 791-792.
60 F. 3d 24, affirmed.
SOUTER, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

John D. O'Reilly III argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
Richard H. Seamon argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Solicitor GeneralDays, Deputy
Solicitor General Wallace, Linda Sher, Norton J Come, and
John Emad Arbab.*
JUSTICE SOUTER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question here is whether an employer may disavow
a collective-bargaining agreement because of a good-faith
*Jonathan Hiatt, Marsha Berzon, David Silberman, and Laurence
Gold filed a brief for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations as amicus curiae urging affirmance.

Cite as: 517 U. S. 781 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

doubt about a union's majority status at the time the contract was made, when the doubt arises from facts known to
the employer before its contract offer had been accepted by
the union. We hold that the National Labor Relations
Board (NLRB or Board) reasonably concluded that an employer challenging an agreement under these circumstances
commits an unfair labor practice in violation of §§ 8(a)(1) and
(5) of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA or Act), 49
Stat. 452, 453, as amended, 29 U. S. C. §§ 158(a)(1) and (5).
I
Petitioner Auciello Iron Works of Hudson, Massachusetts,
had 23 production and maintenance employees during the
period in question. After a union election in 1977, the
NLRB certified Shopmen's Local No. 501, a/w International
Association of Bridge, Structural, and Ornamental Iron
Workers, AFL-CIO (Union), as the collective-bargaining
representative of Auciello's employees. Over the following
years, the company and the Union were able to negotiate a
series of collective-bargaining agreements, one of which expired on September 25, 1988. Negotiations for a new one
were unsuccessful throughout September and October 1988,
however, and when Auciello and the Union had not made a
new contract by October 14, 1988, the employees went on
strike. Negotiations continued, nonetheless, and, on November 17, 1988, Auciello presented the Union with a complete contract proposal. On November 18, 1988, the picketing stopped, and nine days later, on a Sunday evening, the
Union telegraphed its acceptance of the outstanding offer.
The very next day, however, Auciello told the Union that it
doubted that a majority of the bargaining unit's employees
supported the Union, and for that reason disavowed the
collective-bargaining agreement and denied it had any duty
to continue negotiating. Auciello traced its doubt to knowledge acquired before the Union accepted the contract offer,
including the facts that 9 employees had crossed the picket

AUCIELLO IRON WORKS, INC. v. NLRB
Opinion of the Court

line, that 13 employees had given it signed forms indicating
their resignation from the Union, and that 16 had expressed
dissatisfaction with the Union.
In January 1989, the Board's General Counsel issued an
administrative complaint charging Auciello with violation of
§§ 8(a)(1) and (5) of the NLRA.1 An Administrative Law
Judge found that a contract existed between the parties and
that Auciello's withdrawal from it violated the Act. 303
N. L. R. B. 562 (1991). The Board affirmed the Administrative Law Judge's decision 2; it treated Auciello's claim of

ISection

8(a) of the NLRA provides:
"It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer"(1) to interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise of
the rights guaranteed in section 157 of this title;
"(5) to refuse to bargain collectively with the representatives of his
employees, subject to the provisions of section 159(a) of this title." 29
U. S. C. § 158(a).
Section 7 of the Act provides:
"Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form, join, or
assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through representatives
of their own choosing, and to engage in other concerted activities for the
purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or protection, and
shall also have the right to refrain from any or all of such activities except
to the extent that such right may be affected by an agreement requiring
membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment as authorized in section 158(a)(3) of this title." 29 U. S. C. § 157.
2The Board has developed a number of criteria to assess whether a
collective-bargaining contract has been formed, see, e. g., Appalachian
Shale Products Co., 121 N. L. R. B. 1160 (1958), which may not always
coincide with those that would govern in the general area of contract law,
see Ben Franklin Nat. Bank, 278 N. L. R. B. 986, 993-994 (1986). We
accept for purposes of deciding this case the Board's conclusion that a
contract was formed here within the meaning of the Act. Our review of
this case is thus limited to the narrow question whether an employer may
withdraw from a collective-bargaining contract once formed when it possessed enough evidence to assert a good-faith doubt about the union's majority status at the time of formation.
Auciello has suggested that the contract itself was invalid ab initio
because the Union in fact lacked majority support at the time of accept-

Cite as: 517 U. S. 781 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

good-faith doubt as irrelevant and ordered Auciello to reduce
the collective-bargaining agreement to a formal written instrument. Ibid. But when the Board applied to the Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit for enforcement of its order,
the Court of Appeals declined on the ground that the Board
had not adequately explained its refusal to consider Auciello's defense of good-faith doubt about the Union's majority
status. 980 F. 2d 804 (1992). On remand, the Board issued
a supplemental opinion to justify its position, 317 N. L. R. B.
364 (1995), and the Court of Appeals thereafter enforced the
order as resting on a "policy choice [both] ...reasonable and
60 F. 3d 24, 27 (1995). We granted
...quite persuasive."
certiorari, 516 U. S. 1086 (1996), and now affirm.
II
A
The object of the National Labor Relations Act is industrial peace and stability, fostered by collective-bargaining
agreements providing for the orderly resolution of labor
disputes between workers and employees. See 29 U. S. C.
§ 141(b); FallRiver Dyeing & FinishingCorp. v. NLRB, 482
U. S. 27, 38 (1987) (FallRiver Dyeing). To such ends, the
Board has adopted various presumptions about the existence
of majority support for a union within a bargaining unit, the
ance. Because the substantiation required to make this showing is
greater than that required to assert a good-faith doubt, see NLRB v. Curtin Matheson Scientific, Inc., 494 U. S. 775, 788, n. 8 (1990), the Board has
not taken a position on whether such a claim could excuse an employer's
decision to repudiate an otherwise valid contract and disavow its duty to
bargain with the union. Brief for Respondent 26, n. 7. Auciello concedes
that it failed to advance this claim in its answer to the General Counsel's
complaint, Tr. of Oral Arg. 6, 28, the Board never considered this question,
and Auciello sought certiorari review only of the question whether an employer is bound by a union's acceptance in this context when "the Employer had a reasonable basis for a good faith doubt." Pet. for Cert. i.
Accordingly, we conclude that this question is not properly before us and
decline to address it.

AUCIELLO IRON WORKS, INC. v. NLRB
Opinion of the Court

precondition for service as its exclusive representative. Cf.
id., at 37-39. The first two are conclusive presumptions. A
union "usually is entitled to a conclusive presumption of ma-

jority status for one year following" Board certification as
such a representative. Id., at 37. A union is likewise entitled under Board precedent to a conclusive 3 presumption of
majority status during the term of any collective-bargaining
agreement, up to three years. See NLRB v. Burns Intl
Security Services, Inc., 406 U. S. 272, 290, n. 12 (1972); see
generally R. Gorman, Basic Text on Labor Law: Unionization
and Collective Bargaining § 9, pp. 54-59 (1976). "These presumptions are based not so much on an absolute certainty
that the union's majority status will not erode," Fall River
Dyeing, 482 U. S., at 38, as on the need to achieve "stability
in collective-bargaining relationships." Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). They address our fickle nature by
"enabl[ing] a union to concentrate on obtaining and fairly
administering a collective-bargaining agreement" without

worrying about the immediate risk of decertification and by
"remov[ing] any temptation on the part of the employer to
avoid good-faith bargaining" in an effort to undermine union
support. Ibid.
There is a third presumption, though not a conclusive one.
At the end of the certification year or upon expiration of the
collective-bargaining agreement, the presumption of majority status becomes a rebuttable one. See NLRB v. Curtin
Matheson Scientific, Inc., 494 U. S. 775, 778 (1990); see n. 6,
infra. Then, an employer may overcome the presumption
(when, for example, defending against an unfair labor prac-

tice charge) "by showing that, at the time of [its] refusal to
bargain, either (1) the union did not in fact enjoy majority
3

This presumption may be overcome only in unusual circumstances, see,
e. g., Brooks v. NLRB, 348 U. S. 96, 98-99 (1954) (union dissolution, inter
alia); 3 T. Kheel, Labor Law § 13A.04[5], p. 13A-26 (1995); R. Gorman,
Basic Text on Labor Law: Unionization and Collective Bargaining §9,
pp. 56-57 (1976), none of which is present here.

Cite as: 517 U. S. 781 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

support, or (2) the employer had a 'good-faith' doubt, founded
on a sufficient objective basis, of the union's majority support." Curtin Matheson, supra, at 778 (emphasis in original).4 Auciello asks this Court to hold that it may raise the
latter defense even after a collective-bargaining contract period has apparently begun to run upon a union's acceptance
of an employer's outstanding offer.
B
The same need for repose that first prompted the Board
to adopt the rule presuming the union's majority status during the term of a collective-bargaining agreement also led
the Board to rule out an exception for the benefit of an employer with doubts arising from facts antedating the contract. The Board said that such an exception would allow
an employer to control the timing of its assertion of goodfaith doubt and thus to "'sit' on that doubt and.., raise it
after the offer is accepted." 317 N. L. R. B., at 370. The
Board thought that the risks associated with giving employers such "unilatera[l] control [over] a vital part of the
collective-bargaining process," ibid., would undermine the
stability of the collective-bargaining relationship, id., at 374,
and thus outweigh any benefit that might in theory follow
from vindicating a doubt that ultimately proved to be sound.
The Board's judgment in the matter is entitled to prevail.
To affirm its rule of decision in this case, indeed, there is no
need to invoke the full measure of the "considerable defer4

Auciello maintains that CurtinMatheson requires reversal here since
it appears that the employer in that case asserted its good-faith doubt
after the union's acceptance of the contract offer. Brief for Petitioner
19-21. But the case is not authority on the issue of timing. The question
presented was whether the Board "in evaluating an employer's claim that
it had a reasonable basis for doubting a union's majority support, must
presume that striker replacements oppose the union." Curtin Matheson,
494 U. S., at 777 (emphasis in original). We did not discuss or consider
whether the timing of the employer's assertion should affect the outcome
of that case, and the decision does not answer that question.

AUCIELLO IRON WORKS, INC. v. NLRB
Opinion of the Court

ence" that the Board is due, NLRB v. Curtin Matheson Scientific, Inc., supra, at 786, by virtue of its charge to develop
national labor policy, Beth IsraelHospitalv. NLRB, 437 U. S.
483, 500-501 (1978), through interstitial rulemaking that is
"rational and consistent with the Act," Curtin Matheson,
supra, at 787.
It might be tempting to think that Auciello's doubt was
expressed so soon after the apparent contract formation that
little would be lost by vindicating that doubt and wiping the
contractual slate clean, if in fact the company can make a
convincing case for the doubt it claims. On this view, the
loss of repose would be slight. But if doubts about the
union's majority status would justify repudiating a contract
one day after its ostensible formation, why should the same
doubt not serve as well a year into the contract's term? Auciello implicitly agrees on the need to provide some cutoff,
but argues that the limit should be expressed as a "reasonable time" to repudiate the contract. Brief for Petitioner
26-32. That is, it seeks case-by-case determinations of the
appropriate time for asserting a good-faith doubt in place of
the Board's bright-line rule cutting off the opportunity at the
moment of apparent contract formation. Auciello's desire is
natural, but its argument fails to point up anything unreasonable in the Board's position.
The Board's approach generally allows companies an adequate chance to act on their preacceptance doubts before
contract formation, just as Auciello could have acted effectively under the Board's rule in this case. Auciello knew
that the picket line had been crossed and that a number of
its employees had expressed dissatisfaction with the Union
at least nine days before the contract's acceptance, and all of
the resignation forms Auciello received were dated at least
five days before the acceptance date. During the week preceding the apparent formation of the contract, Auciello had
at least three alternatives to doing nothing. It could have
withdrawn the outstanding offer and then, like its employ-

Cite as: 517 U. S. 781 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

ees, petitioned for a representation election. See 29 U. S. C.
§ 159(c)(1)(A)(ii) (employee petitions); § 159(c)(1)(B) (employer
petitions); NLRB v. FinancialInstitution Employees, 475
U. S. 192, 198 (1986). 5 "[I]f the Board determines, after investigation and hearing, that a question of representation
exists, it directs an election by secret ballot and certifies the
result." Ibid. Following withdrawal, it could also have refused to bargain further on the basis of its good-faith doubt,
leaving it to the Union to charge an unfair labor practice,
against which it could defend on the basis of the doubt. Cf.
CurtinMatheson, 494 U. S., at 778. And, of course, it could
have withdrawn its offer to allow it time to investigate while
it continued to fulfill its duty to bargain in good faith with
the Union. The company thus had generous opportunities
to avoid the presumption before the moment of acceptance.
There may, to be sure, be cases where the opportunity requires prompt action, 6 but labor negotiators are not the least
nimble, and the Board could reasonably have thought the
price of making more time for the sluggish was too high,
since it would encourage bad-faith bargaining. As Auciello
would have it, any employer with genuine doubt about a
union's hold on its employees would be invited to go right on
bargaining, with the prospect of locking in a favorable contract that it could, if it wished, then challenge. Here, for
example, if Auciello had acted before the Union's telegram
by withdrawing its offer and declining further negotiation
based on its doubt (or petitioning for decertification), flames
would have been fanned, and if it ultimately had been obliged
r We assume, without deciding, that the withdrawal of an offer under
these circumstances could not serve as a basis for the filing of an unfair
labor practice complaint, which might trigger the "blocking charge" rule
that the NLRB concedes would be implicated by an employer's unlawful
withdrawal of recognition. See Brief for Respondent 31, n. 10.
6We note that in the unusual circumstance in which evidence leading
the employer to harbor such a doubt arises at the same time the union
accepts the offer, the Board has agreed to examine such occurrences on a
case-by-case basis. 317 N. L. R. B. 364, 374-375 (1995).

AUCIELLO IRON WORKS, INC. v. NLRB
Opinion of the Court

to bargain further, a favorable agreement would have been
more difficult to obtain. But by saving its challenge until
after a contract had apparently been formed, it could not end
up with a worse agreement than the one it had. The Board
could reasonably say that giving employers some flexibility
in raising their scruples would not be worth skewing bargaining relationships by such one-sided leverage, and the fact
that any collective-bargaining agreement might be vulnerable to such a postformation challenge would hardly serve the
Act's goal of achieving industrial peace by promoting stable
collective-bargaining relationships. Cf. Fall River Dyeing,
482 U. S., at 38-39; Franks Bros. Co. v. NLRB, 321 U. S. 702,
705 (1944).
Nor do we find anything compelling in Auciello's contention that its employees' statutory right "to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing" and to
refrain from doing so, 29 U. S. C. § 157, compels us to reject
the Board's position. Although we take seriously the Act's
command to respect "the free choice of employees" as well
as to "promot[e] stability in collective-bargaining relationships," Fall River Dyeing, supra, at 38 (internal quotation
marks omitted), we have rejected the position that employers may refuse to bargain whenever presented with evidence
that their employees no longer support their certified union.
"To allow employers to rely on employees' rights in refusing
to bargain with the formally designated union is not conducive to [industrial peace], it is inimical to it." Brooks v.
NLRB, 348 U. S. 96, 103 (1954). The Board is accordingly
entitled to suspicion when faced with an employer's benevolence as its workers' champion against their certified union,
which is subject to a decertification petition from the workers if they want to file one. There is nothing unreasonable
in giving a short leash to the employer as vindicator of its
employees' organizational freedom.

Cite as: 517 U. S. 781 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

C
Merits aside, Auciello also claims that the precedent of
Garment Workers v. NLRB, 366 U. S. 731 (1961), compels
reversal, but it does not. In Garment Workers, we held that
a bona fide but mistaken belief in a union's majority status
cannot support an employer's agreement purporting to recognize a union newly organized but as yet uncertified. We
upheld the Board's rule out of concern that an employer and
a union could make a deal giving the union "'a marked advantage over any other [union] in securing the adherence of
employees,"' id., at 738 (quoting NLRB v. Pennsylvania
Greyhound Lines, Inc., 303 U. S. 261, 267 (1938)), thereby
distorting the process by which employees elect the bargaining agent of their choice. 366 U. S., at 738-739. Here, in
contrast, the Union continued to enjoy a rebuttable presumption of majority support, and the bargaining unit employees
had ample opportunity to initiate decertification of the Union
but apparently chose not to do so. With entire consistency,
the Board may deny employers the power gained from recognizing a union, even when it flows from a good-faith but mistaken belief in a newly organized union's majority status, and
at the same time deny them the power to disturb collectivebargaining agreements based on a doubt (without more) that
its employees' bargaining agent has retained majority status.
Good-faith belief can neither force a union's precipitate recognition nor destroy a recognized union's contracting authority after the fact by intentional delay. There is, indeed, a
symmetry in the two positions.

We hold that the Board reasonably found an employer's
precontractual, good-faith doubt inadequate to support an
exception to the conclusive presumption arising at the moment a collective-bargaining contract offer has been ac-

792

AUCIELLO IRON WORKS, INC. v. NLRB
Opinion of the Court

cepted. We accordingly affirm the judgment of the Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit.
It is so ordered.

