SUPREME COURT.

JOHN BACKHOUSE,

SURVIVING ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON

Or JOHN BACKHOUSE DECEASED, JAMES HUNTER AND MARTHA HUNTER, AND JAMES HUNTER OF JOHN, M. GARNETTI
EXECUTORS OF MUSCo G. HUNTER;A.CHIBALD'HUNTER,
AND ADAM HUNTER, GEORGE W. SPOTSWOOD AND WILLIAM
-L..SPOTSWOOD, EXECUTORS OF ALEXANDER SPOTSWOOD, AND
MARGARET JONES, EXECUTRIX OF GABRIEL JONES, WH7

WAS EXECUTOR Or THOMAS LORD FAIRFAX Vs. ROBERT
PATTON, ADMINISTRATOR DR 30NIS NON CUM TESTAMENTO
ANNEXO OF JAMES HUNTER, DECEASED, JOSEPH ENNEVER,
ADMINISTRATOI OF ADAM HUNTER DECEASED, JAMES HUNTER, SON OF JOHN HUNTER, DECEASED, WHO WAS HEIR OF
ADAM HUNTER, ROBERT DUNBAR, THE SAID ROBERT DUNBAR, ADMINISTRATOR OF ALEXANDER VASS, JOHN STRODE,
ROBERT RANDOLPH, EXECUTOrn OF WILLIAM FITZHUGH,
DECEASED, HUGH-MERCER AND ROBERT HENWG.
In Virginia the moneys arising from the sale of personal property are called legal
ssets, in the hands of an executor or administrator; and those which arisd from
the sale of real property are denominated equitable assets. By the law the
executor or administrator is required, out of the legal assets, to pay the creditors of the estate, according to the dignity of their demands, but the equitable
assets are applied equally to all the creditors in proportion to their claim.
Legal and equitable assets were in the hands of an administrator, he being also
commissioner to sell the real estate of a deceased person; and by a decree of
the court of chancery he was directed to make payment of debts due by the
intestate out of the funds in his hands, without directing in what manner the
two funds should be applied. Payments were mad6 under this decree to the
creditors by the administrator and commissioner, without his stating, or in any
way making known whether the same were made from the equitable or legal
assets-a balance remaiqing in his hands, unpaid to those entitled to the same,
the sureties of the administrator, after his decease, claimed to have the.whole
of the payments made under the decree credited to the legal assets, in order
to obtain a dFicharge from their liability for the.Oue administration of the legal
assets. Held, that their principal having omitted to designate the fund out o
which the payments were made, they could not do so.
Where debts of different dignities are due to a creditor of the estate of an intestate, and no specific application of the paymentmade by an administrator is
directed by him, if the creditor applies the payment to either of his debts by
some unequivocal act, his right to do so cannot be questioned. Query, Whether the application must be made by the creditor at the time, or within a reasonable time afterwards?

JANU.ARY TERM. 1831.
[Backhouse and others vs. Patton and others.]
There may be cases where no indication having been given as to the application
of the payment by the debtor or creditor, the law will make it. But it cannot
be admitted, that In such cases the payment will be uniformly applied to the
extinguishment of a debt of the highest dignity. That there have been authorities which favour such an application, Is true; but they have been controverted
by other adjudications. Where an administrator has had a reasonable time to
make his election as to the appropriation of payments made by him, it is too
late to do so after a controversy has arisen. And it is not competent for the
sureties of the administrator to exonerate themselves from responsibility, by
attempting ta give a construction to his acts which seems not to have been
given by himself.

This cause came before the court on a certificate of a division
of opinion in the circuit court of the United States, for the
eastern district of Virginia. In that court a bill was filed on
the equity side of the court for the recovery of debts, by John
Backhouse's administrator, and others.
The facts of the case, as agreed on the argument, were:
James Hunter died testate and insolvent, charging his estate, both real and personal, with'the payment of debts. This
suit was originally brought by Rebecca Backhouse, administratrix of John Backhouse deceased, one of the creditors, in
the circuit court of the United States for the middle circuit of
Virginia, against said Hunter's executor; who dying during its
pendency, Robert Patton, the defendant, was appointed administrator de bonis non, with the will annexed, and gave bond
and security, accordingly. The suit having abated by the
death of the executor, was revived against Patton. In 1803
it was decreed that the real estate should be sold for the pay.
ment of debts, and Patton and others were appointed commissioners for that purpose, to hold the proceeds of such sale
subject to the' order of court.
In the management of the estate divers sums of money
came into the hands of Patton, both as commissioner apid administrator. After various alterations of the parties by nteath
and otherwise, and divers interlocutory decrees ordering payments to be made. rateably to creditors, as their claims were
ascertained by the court, a decree Was made on the -12th of
June 1820, against-Patton, as commissioner and.administrator;
whereby it was ordered and adjudged, that he should pay a
certain gum, to be rateably apportioned among certain creditors therein mentioned.
VoL. V.-V

SUPREME COURT.
[Backhouse and others us. Patton and others.]

It was also ordered by said decree, that a commissioner of
court should examine and report upon the administration accounts of said defendant. This examination was had, and a
report made, on the 24th of November 1-629. After the
return of this report, to wit on the 15th of June 1821, it was
decreed that the said defendant should pay a further sum, to be
apportioned among the creditors as therein directed. Upon
this decree executions were issued and returned "nulla bona."
Whereupon a supplemental' bill was filed, seeking to make
the sureties for the faithful administiation of Patton accountable for his waste.
One of his said sureties failed to appear and answer, and
the bill, as to him,was taken pro confes8o: the other appreared and answered. When the cause came on for hearing against the sureties, the insolvency of Patton, and the,
amount of assets which came to his 'hands to be administered on, were not controverted. Patton having made satisfactory arrangements to secure the payment of the sum adjudged against him by the decree of the 12th day of June 1820,
as to the present question, it was considered as paid. It was
bonttnded by the defendant, that the whole sunR adjudged to
be pail by Patton, under the decree of the 12th of June
18,20, amounting to'twenty-three thousand three hundred and
twenty-two dollars fifty-six cents, should go to his credit as
administrator.
At the hearing in the circuit court, the questions presented
by the. counsel of the parties. and argued before the court,
'were the following, to wit;
1. "Whether the whole of the said payments-made by the
said Robert Patton, under the said decree of the 121h of June
1820, was to be applied entirely to the debt due from him as
commissioner of the court for the sale .of the real estate, so
asto leave his sureties for due administration liable for the
whole balance in his hands as administrator de b6ds&i non: or,
2. "Whether the payment ought to be applied to the debt
due from R. Patton, as administrator, on his administration
account: or)
S. "Whether the payment ought to be applied to the debts
due by him in both characters, as commissioner of the court,
-and as administrator de bonis non, rateably, in proportion to
the amounts of those responsibilities?"

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Backhouse and others vs. Patton and others.]

The court-holding the negative on the first question, and
being divided on the second and third, they were adjourned
to the supreme court.
The complainants by their counsel contended in the circuit
court, that the whole sum of twenty-three. thousaad three
hundred and twenty-two dollars fifty-six cents, adjudged
against Patton by the decree of the 12th of June 1820, ought
not to go to the credit of his responsibility as administrator;
and that his sureties cannot claim more than its rateable apportionment, according to the amount of their respective responsibilities of commissioner and administrator.
Mr Haynes, for the complainants, argued:
That the sureties of Patton as administrator could not avail
themselves of any defence which could not avail their principal.
2. If the whole amount of the decree of 1820 should be
placed to the credit of Patton's responsibility as administrator, it would give his sureties an illegal and inequitable priority over the other creditors
3. It would virtually repeal the law requiring bonds and
security for administrators.
4. It would make the redlty a guarantee for the faithiul
administration of the personalty, by releasing the sureties for
such administrators.
Mr. Patton, on the part of the representatives and sureties,
read the argument of Mr Chapman Johnson.
The argument urged, that the tre quetion before the court
is whether the payment as made shall ,be applied first in satisfaction of the balance due from the administrator; and next,
in satisfaction of that due from -the commissioner; or shall be
applied rateably to the satisfaction of both. The rule for the
decision of this question must be found either in the decrees
of the circuit court; or in the general. principies of law governing the application of payments.
It was admitted that the court had the whole fund under its
control, as well he legal assets, which under the law of Virginia are the personal estate of the intestate, as the equitable
assets, the proceeds of the re l estate; and could have directed

SUPREME COURT.
[Backhouse and others vs, Patton and others.3

the payment out of either 1fund. But it was argued that no
directions had been given by the court on this point; and
therefore the inquiry was as to the manner the amount of the
decree should be applied by the law.
The authorities from the common and civil law, and the
general doctrine as to the appropriation of payments, established the following principles by an entire harmony between
those codes.
1. The debtor making the payment has the primary right to
direct its application.
2. If he does not exercise this right, it devolves on the
creditor.
3. If neither exercises it, within the time allowed by law,
the law itself makes the application. 1 Evans's Pothier on
Obligations (London edition), part 3, art. 7, rules 1, 2, 3,4,
5, and notes, page 363 to 374. Comyn on Contracts, part 2,
ch. 2, § 8, page 216 to 228. 16 Vin. Ab. Payment, M, 277.
I Merivale's Rep. 585. 2 Strange, 1194.
The debtor's right to make the application, however limited
in point of time, is not restrained as to the manner. It is not
necessary that he should declare the application in express
terms. It is sufficient, if from circumstances it may be fairly
infern'ed that the payment was made in satisfaction of one of'
the debts. Newmark vs. Clay, 14 East, 239. Tayloe vs.
Sandiford, 7 Wheat. 14.
Although by the civil law, as stated by Pothier, the debtor
is required to make the application at the time of the payment,
this is not the doctrine and rule of the common law. This
has been so decided by this.cqurt in the Mayor of Alexandria
vs. IPatton, 4 Cranch, 317. Cited also, 1 Wash. 128. United
States vs. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 72Q. 2 Barn and Cress. 65.
9 Com. Law Rep. 25.
It cannot be contended that Patton was indebted to the
creditors of Hunter, as administrator, and as commissioner of
the court.' The only debt doe by him, before the decree, was
as administrator.- As commissioner of the court he owed
them nothing, and was not authorised to pay them any thing,
except as directed by the decree of the court.
When the decree of 1820 directed him, the administrator

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Backhouse and others vs. Patton and others.)

and commissioner, to 'pay specific sums, this was a personal
decree, and he became indebted to them as an individual; his
fiduciary character was merged in, the decree, and to each
creditor he became indebted separately. When the debts so
made due were paid, the creditor had no election to make, no
application to declare. The right of the creditors to appropriate the payments had then nothing to do with the case; and
the right of the debtor to appropriate continued, on the authorities referred to, up to the period of the decrees in the circuit
court,
As to the rule "that if both the debtor and creditor omit
to appropriate payments, the law will apply them according
to its own notions of justice;" the following cases were' referred to. 1 Vern. 24. 2 Brownlow, 207. 12 Mod. 559. 1
LQrd Raymond, 287.
The application contended for is warranted by the situation
in which the administrator was placed. He was bound to appropriate the fund to the discharge of his obligations as administrator, in preference to any claims on him as commissioner; and the law will look at these considerations, and
make the same application. As administrator he had given
bond,. which subjected him to many actions. Duties as idministrator exposed him to heavier responsibilities than as
commissioner; his oath of office obliged him to pay the debts
of the intestate out of the legal assets.
It was also conitended that the fifth rule in Pothier (374),
which declares "6that if different debts are of the same date,,
and in other respects equal, the application should be made
proportionably to each," was applicable to this case. For
this rule was also cited, 1 Vern. 34. 2 Chan. Cases, 83.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause is brought before the court on a certificate of a
division of opinion, in the circuit court of the United States,
for the eastern district of Virginia. The question presented for
decision relates to the application of certain payments made
by Patton, one of the defendants. The facts in the case are,
substantially, as follows.
James Hunter, by his last will, devisedhis estate real and

SUPREME COURT.
[Backhouse and others vs. Patton and others.]

personal to certain relatives, subject to the payment of his
debts. Patrick Home, one of the devisees and executors,
being the surviving executor named in the will, having taken
upon himself the execution of it, sold a part of the real estate
to one Dunbar.
The complainants, creditors of Hunter, brought their suit
in the circuit court against Home as executor and,devisee, and
against others, to set aside the-sale to Dunbar, and obtain satisfaction of their debts. After having answered, Honl- died
in the spring of 1803; and administration de bonis non, on
Hunter's estate, was granted to Patton.
•Being made defendant, he filed his answer in 1803, and a
decree was made, appointing him, John Minor and another,
cOmmissioners, to sell, on twelve months credit, the unsold
lands of Hunter and to hold the proceeds subject to the order
of the court. As administrator, Patton received personal property to a considerable amount; and in June 1803 sold such
part of it as was saleable, on a credit of twelve months. The
remaihin&glands of F unter's estate, he and Minor, acting as
the commissioners of the court, sold on the same credit, in
December 1803.
In the progress of the cause, an amended bill was filed by
the complainants, waving all objections to Dunbar's purchase.
Patton, as commissioner, in 1813, reported a balance on
the administration account of about three thousand three
hundred and twelve pounds, including' interest.
On this report, in June 1815, the court directed payment by
Patton and Minor as commissioners, of one dollar in the
pound to the creditors named; and on the 3d of December
following ordered a provisional payment to the complainants
to be made out of the moneys in the hands of Patton, as administrator, if any he hath, and that he and Minor as commissioners do pay, &c. This decree seems not to have been
acted on. On the 12th of June 1820, the claims of the complainanti having been established, the court, with a view, as
expressed, to put thenm on an equality with the creditors
named in the decree of 1815, ordered, "that out of the funds
.of the estate of James Hunter, at the disposition.of the court,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Backbouse and others vs. Patton and others.]

RobertPatton, one of the commissionerp and administrator de
bonis non, do pay the sum of twenty three thousand three
hundred and twenty two dollars and fifty-six cents." This
sum was paid.
The decree of 1820 having directed a furthdr account, it was
taken, and the sums in the hands of Patton, as commissioner
and administrator, were stated. After the correction of various errors by the court, in the reports made, it .was ascertained in 1821 that after paying the sum of twenty-three
thousand three hundred and twenty-two dollars and -fifty-six
cents, there was still a balance in the hands of Patton of six
thousand and forty pounds-four shillings and four pence; and
the court decreed, that he should pay that sum to the creditors
of the estate, as administrator and as one of the commissioners
of the court.
Patton had given security as administrator, but none as
commissioner. To make the securities liable, he being insolvent, a supplemental bill was filed against them, and by
the answer of one of them the question of liability is raised.
The point presented for con'siaeration is, whether the payment shall first be applied to the credit of the administration
fund, or rateably to both funds?
If the payment shall be decided to have been made out of
the administration fund, the sureties are discharged; as the sum
paid was greater'than the amount Patton held in his hand
as administrator. The payment.also exceeded the sum he
held as commissioner, though this, fund was larger than the
other.
It is earnestly contended, in the learned and able argument
in writing submitted to the court by the defendants' counsel,
that the administration fund must first be exhausted. To de-termine the question raised it is not important to ascertain
the precise sum which Patton held in his hands in each capacity; as the amount paid exceeded his liability in either.
In Virginia, the moneys arising from the sale of personal
property are called legal assets, in the hands of an executor or
administrator; and those which arise from 'the sale of realproperty are denominated equifable assets. By the law, the
executor or administrator is reqgired out of the legal assets,

SUPREME COTURT.
[Baekhouse and others vs. Patton and others.]

to pay the creditors of the estate, according to the dignity of
their demands; but the equitable assets are applied equally to
all the creditors, in proportion to their claims.
The payment was made under thle decree of 1820; And
if the court did not direct specifically- in what manner the
-two funds should be applied,'it is contended that Patton had a
riglt .himself to determine; and consequently, by applying
first the legal assets, to discharge his sureties.
If the correctness of this argument were admitted, it would
still be important to show that the payment was made by Patton, as administrator. This fact might be established by an
unequivocal act, or by circumstances.
This is clearly not a case. in 'which the creditor may apply
the payment, no specific directions having been given by the
debtor.
To each of the creditors there was but one debt due, on
which the payment was made; it could therefore be applied
only to the payment of such debt
Had debts of different dignities been due to each creditor,
and no specific application of the payment had been directed by Patton, and the creditor had 'applied it by some unequivocal act, his right to do so would not, perhaps, be questioned.
Whether the application must be made by the credit6r at
the time the money is received, or withina reasonable time
afterwards, it can be of no importance in this case to inquire.
There may be cases, -where no indication having been
given, as to the application of the- payment by the debtor or
creditor, the law will make it. But it' cannot be admitted,
that in such cases, the payment will be uniformly applied to
the extinguishment of a debt of the highest dignity. That
there are authorities which favour such an application is true;
but they have been controverted by other adjudications.
From the terms of the decree of- December 1815, the court
undoubtedly intended that the legal assets should first be applied in making the payments directed; and then the equitable assets. But no such direction is given in' the decree of
1820. The payment is directed to be made out of both funds
in the hands of Patton ,without any indication that either
should be first applied in preference to the other.

JANUARY TERM 183L
[Backlhouse and others vs. Patton and others.]

-If,,in making the payment, Patton could exercise his discretion, in firSt'applying the legal assets, has "henfforded any
evidence of having done so? Has he by.any entry in his accountsi or by a return to the court, or in any other manner,
shown u.special, application of the money. Within what time
was it necessary for him .to make his election. His intention
i& attempted to. be adduced from his interest, aided by the
principles of law referred to.
A's administrator, it is said, he was, responsible for the
funds in his hands, by various modes of proceedings, summary' in their character; and from this, it is inferred, that he
intended to relieve himself from such a responsibility. To
relieve his securities, it is urged, must have formed an additional motive, tad which might be superadded, the oath he had
taken gs administrator. But, on the oth'er hand; it may be
urged, that the motives were not less strong, As comnissioner, if unfaithful to his trust, he was subject to the penalties
'whieh a court 'of chancery 'might impose. It would seem,
therefore that'the circumstances of the case do not authorize
an.inference that any determination was made by Patton on
the subject.
Whents,.j 1821, the decree was rendered against him, as admihistrator and. as commissioner, for the payment of the balance which appeared to, be in'his hands, no objection seems
to have been made to the decree. It could nothave been entered without'giving a-construction to the'decre of 1820; for
if.the twenty-three thousand threebundred and"twenty-two
dollars and fifty-six~cents, had been- paid by-first applying the
legal assets, the decree of 1821, must, have directed the
balance. to be paid as commissioner. This decree, theiefore,.
goes very strongly to sho'win whatlight the above payment
was considered by the court and the administrator.'
Can it be suppooed,.that when the decree of 1821 Was about
being entered against Patton, holding him responsible in both
capacities, that he would bave remained silent if his liability
as Adininistrator had ceased. The rendition of this decree
must clearly refute 'any presumption, attempted to be raised
either from the facts or circumstances .of the case,. that the
legal assets.were'considered as 'having been - first applied by
the administrator in making the payment.
VOL. V.--:W

SUPREME COURIT.
[Backhouse and others vs. Patton and others.]

Having had a reasonable time to make his election, is it not
too late to do so, after the controversy has arisen? And is it
competetit for the sureties of the administrator to exonerate
themselves from responsibility by attempting to give a construction to his acts, which seems not to have been given by
himself.
They first raise the question as to the fund out of which
the payment was made. If then Patton did no act which
showed an intention to apply first the legal assets, in making
the payment; and if it was not the right of the creditor to
make the application; does the law make it, as contended for,
under all the circumstances of the case? Had Patton made
the applicatio'n, a question might have been raised, whether it
was competent for him to do so.
"Jurisdiction over the legal fund was assumed by a court of
chancery. It was for that court, by its decree, to make the
application of the fund as the law required; and having done
so, the" administrator could exercise no diseretion over it.
The same may be said as to the priorities of the claims set up
by the complainants, and established by a decree of the court.
That the administrator was limi ted in making payment, by
the terms of the decree, will not be desired. 'It was not for
him to pay more in the pound than was directed, nor to give
a preference to one of the claims over another, on account of
its higher dignity. The decree placed them on an equality,
as to the payment; and this was clearly within.the province
of the court, the estate of Hunter being insolvent;
The entire fund, in the hands of Patton, was subject to the
distribution of the court. That part of the fund, which, in
the hands of the administrator constituted legal assets, -and
under the law was directed to e applied in a special manner
to the extinguishment of debts, was taken from his control by
the court of chancery. The fund was applied by the court,
and not by the administrator. His official capacity was only
noticed to ascertain the extent of his responsibility, and the
payment was .directed accordingly. He had no discretion to
exercise, no rule to observe., but that which' the decree laid
down. " As administrator and commissioner he was directed to
make the payment, because in these capacities he had received
an amount greater than the sum directed to be paid. The payment was made in pursuance of the decree.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Backhouse and others vs. Patton and others.]

Suppose Patton, as commissioner, had given sureties who
were now before the court, and objecting to the application of
money as contended for. This would present a question between sureties.. The insolvency, of their principal renders a
loss inevitable, and the inquiry would be how shall this loss
be sustained.
Under such circumstances, could any substantial reason be
given why the sureties to the administration bond should be
exonerated in preference to the others. No distinguishing
quality exists, either in the fund as it now stands, or the debti
to be paid, to determihe this preference. It is not found in the
act of Patton, if his discretion might have been exercised on
the subject. The law has fiked no rule applicable to the case.
By the decree both funds are placed on an equality. Payment
is directed to be made from both.
Although Patton gave no security as commissioner, yet the
question, in principle,is the same. A loss must be sustained
and by whom shall it be borne?
The sureties on the administration bond, as has been shown,
cannot claim an exemption from responsibility under the pay-ment made in pursuance of the decree; nor can the creditors
escape a portion of the loss.
If this were a question of responsibility, between sureties,
under the decree of the court, the payment' would be considered as having been made from each fund in the hands of Patton, in proportion to its amount.
This rule will apply with'the same justice to the parties
interested, under the circumstances of this case. Indeed, it
would seem that no other construction could be given, with
equal propriety, to the decree of the court. It is consonant
to the principles of justice, and within the equitable powers
of the court.
On a view of the facts and circumstances of this case, the
court think that the payment of twenty-three thousand three
hundred and twenty-two dollars fifty-six cents should be deducted rat;ably from each of the funds in the hands of Patton,
at the time it was made.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Backhouse and others vs Patton and others.]

cord from the circuit court of the Uaited States for the eastern
district of Virginia; and on the- questions and points on which
thejudgesof the said circuit court were opposed in opinion,
and which were certified to. this court for'its.opinion, in pursuance of the act of congress for that purpose made and provided; and was argued by counsel: on consideration whereof,
it is the opinion of this court, that the payment of twentythree thousand three hundred and twenty-two dollars and
fifty-six cents should be -deducted rateably from each of the
funds in the hands of Patton, at the time the decree of- the
twelfth day.of June in the year 3f our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and twenty was made.
Whereupon it is ordered and decreed by this court to be
certified-.to the judges of the said circuit court for the eastern
district of Virginia, that the payment of twenty-three thousand three hundred and twenty-two dollars fifty-six cents
should be deducted rateably from each of the funds in the
hands of Patton at the time the decree of the twelfth day of
June in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and twenty was made.

