SUPREME COURT,

JOHN SMITH, T. PLAINTIFP

n EmtOx

w. TH

UNrTxD

SFATES, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
Action of debt on aEbond executed by Alpha Kingsley, a paymaster in the
army, and. by John Smith, T. and another, as his sureties, to the United
Stales. The condition of the obligation was, that Alpha Kingsley, "about to
be appointed a district paymaster," &c. " and who will from time to time be
charged with funds to execute and perform the duties of that station, for which
he will be held accountable," &c. shall "well and truly execute the duties of
district paymaster, and regularly account for all moneys placed in his hands to
carry into effect the object of his appointment."
On thetrial the plaintiff gave in evidence a duly certified copy of the bond, and
a" transcript from the books and proceedings of the treasury department, of the
account of Alpha Kingsley, late district paymaster, in account with the United
States." In this account A. K. was chargedwith moneys advanced to him for
pay, subsistence, and forage, bounties and premiums, and contingent expenses
of the irmy; and credited with disbursdmentsrof the same, for the purposes for
which they were paid to him, and showing a large amount of items suspended
and disallowed; making a balance due to the United States of forty-eight thousand four hundred and ninety-two dollars fifty-three cents. -The account was
thus settled by the third auditor of the treasury, and was duly certified to the second comptroller of the treasury, and this balance was by him admitted and certified on the 23d of April 1823. The account was further certified, "Teasury
department, third auditor's office, 1st of September 1824: pursuant to an act to
provide for the prompt settlement of public accounts, approved 8d of March
1817. 1, Peter Hagner, third auditor, &c. do hereby certify that the foregoing
transcript s re true copies of the originals, on file in this office." To this was
annexed a certificate that Peter Hagner was the third auditor, &c." in testimony whereof I, William H. Crawford, secretary of the treasury, have hereunto subscribed my name, and caused to be affixed the seal of this department, at the city of Washington, this 1st of September 1824, (signed) Edward Jones, chief clerk, forWilliam H. aawford, secretary of the treasury." The seal of the treasury department was affixed to the certificate. On
the tridl the districtcourt of Missouri instructed the jury that," as by the account
it appears there are in it items of debit and credit to Kingsley, as district paymaster, it furnished evidence of his having acted as district paymaster, and of
his appointment as such." By the court:
There are two kinds of transcript which the statute authorizes the proper officers
to certify. First, a transcript frm " the books and proceedings of the treasury," and secondly, "copies of bonds, contracts, and other papers, &c. which
remain on file, and relate to the settlement." The certificate under the first
head has been literally mgde in this case, and is a sufficient authentication of
the transcript from - the books and proceedings of the treasury," and is a substantial compliance with the requisitions nf the statute.
The objection, that this signature of the secretary of the treasury was signed by
his chief clerk, seems not to be important. It is the seal which authenticates

JANUARY TERM 1831.
ESmith es. The United States.]
the transcript, and not the signature of the secretary. Hd is not required to
sign the paper. If the seal be affixed by the auditor, it would be deemed sufclent under the statute. The question, therefore, is not necessarily involved
In deciding this point, whether the secretary of the treasury can delegate to
another the power to do an official act, which the-law devolves on him personally.
The defendant pleaded that Alpha Kingsley was remdved from office on the Ist
of April 1815, and on the 15th of September reported himself to the treasurer
of the United States as ready for the settlement of his accounts; at which time,.
and long afterwards, he was solvent, and able to pay the full amoturrof his defalcation: that no notice was given to him by the treasury to account for
moneys in his hands, nor to the defendant, until the commencement of the
suit, and that before the commen cefient of the suit K. became insolvent.
The United States Oemurred to this plea; the district court of Missouri sus.
tsined the demurrer, and gave judgment for the United States. T'here was
no error in the judgment.
Sound policy requires that the acco -hts of disbursing officers should be adjusted at the proper department with as much despatch as is practicable.
This is alike due tp the public and to the persons who are held responsible as
sureties; to the individual who has received advances of money, no lapse ot
time nor. change of circumstantes can weaken the cla.m of government for
reimbursement; but there may be some cases of hardship where, after a great
lapse of time, and the insolvency of the principal, the amount of the defalca.
tion is sought to be recovered from the sureties. The law on this subject is,
founded upon consideration of public policy: while various acts of limitation apply to the concerns of individuals, noneof them operate against the government.
On this point there is no difference of opinion among the federal or state courts.
The fiscal operations of the government are extensive and often complicated.
It is extremely difficult at all times, and sometimes impracticable to settle tti
accounts of public officers, with as little delay as attends the private accounts
of a mercantile establishment. But it is always in the power of an individual
who may be held responsible for the faithfulconduct ofa public agent, to see that
his accounts are settled, and the payment of any balance enforced. A notice
to the government by the surety, that he is unwilling to continue hio responlbility, would induce it in most instances to take the necessary steps for his release.
By the act of congress of 8d:March 1797, a notice is required to be given, the
auditor of the treasury to any person who had received public moneys, for
Which he is accountable, fixing a reasonable time for the production of
vouchers for the expenditures, and In default, costs are to be charged against
the delinquent, whether in a suit judgment be given for or against him-on a
revision of the settlement by the comptroller, after having caused notices to
be served of the items disallowed, &c., the decision is declared to be final and
conclusive. If there had been no subsequent act of congress on this subject,
it might be Important to inquire whether the notice authorized by this act was
,not merely directory to the officers, and essential only to subject the delinquent to the penaltie proyided. By the acts of the 3d ofMarch 1797, and the
3d of March 1817, material changes arer made in-the accounting department of'
the government; and although the act of 1795 may not be expressly repealed, yet
it is abrogated by new and substantive provisions. Under the present mode of

SUPREM9 COURT.
[Smith vs. The United States.]
proceeding against defaulters, the notice authorized by the act of 1796 Is un-necessary.

Although on each of the principal-objections relied on as showing error in the proceedings of the district court, a majority of the members of this court thinkthere
is .no error; yet the judgment of the district court must be reversed, as on the
question of reversal the minorities unite and constitute a majority of the court.

THIS was a writ.of error to the district court of the United
States for the district of Missouri, exercising the jurisdiction
and powers of a ciruit court.
In that court the United States instituted a suit against the
plaintiff in error, John Smith, T. who, with Wilson P. Hunt,
were, by a bond executed on the 7th of February 1810, in the
sum of ten thousand dollars, the sureties of Alpha Kingsley,
appointed a district paymaster, in the army of the United
States under the act of congress passed on tlie ]6th of March
1802. Alpha Kingsley was dismissed from the service of the
Unit&4 States in 1815. The action was commenced in Decemlber 1824.
The pleadings are stated fully in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr Benton for the plaintiff, and by
Mr Berrien, attorney general, for the United States.
For the plaintiff in error Mr Benton contended:
1. That the sureties of the paymaster were exonerated by
the neglect of the United States to settle the accounts of their
principal. Although Alpha Kingsley was dismissed in 1815,
and'made frequent -applications for the settlement of his accounts; no settlement was made until 1823.
2. The treasury' transcript was not evidence in the cause;
as it was not certified by the secretary of the treasury, but by
Mr Jones, who was the chief clerk in the department.
18, The transcript and certified copy ofthe boud.were not evidence,.against tfie sureties, to show that Alpha Kingsley was a
"paymaster;" and the district judge erred in instructing the
jury that it was evidence conducing to prove that fact.
4. 'The transcript was not evidence of debt against the sureties. They were entitled to notice of the settlement *of the
accounts, and to a trial by jury to ascertain the amount, and
for which they are responsible.
The attorney general,, in reply, argued: that the act of

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Smith 'v. The United States.]

congress of 1797 doep not require the certificate of the secretary of the treasury to the transcript. It is to be certified by
the register, under the seal of the treasury. All the requisites
of the law were complied with.
2. The account settled at the treasury, and the copy of the
bond were evidence of official acts by the paymaster. : Proof
of official character may be made by showing individual acts
in that character. 2 Starkie on Evidence, .370. 1 Phillips,
110. Cited also, -1Starkie, 30. 1 Phil. 79.
The act of congress makes a copy of the bond vidence equal
to the original. The transcript contains the bond, and thus
the bond is a part of the transcript;
3. The decisions of this court in The Postmaster General
vs. Early, 12 Wheaton, 136; and Dox vs. The Postmaster
CGneral, 1 Peters, 318; and in other cases, are conclusive to
show, that the sureties cannot avail themselves of the delay of
the accounting officers of the treasury to settle theaccounts of
those who have receiyed public money, as officers under the
government of the United States.
Mr Justibe M'LxzAw delivered the opinion of the court.
A. writ of error is prosecuted in this case, to reverse the
judgment of the district court of Missouri, which exercises the
powers of a circuit court.
In December 1824, the United States brought an action of
debt against the plaintiff in error, to recoverten thousand dollars. The claim arises on a bond signed by the plaintiff as
one of the sureties of Alpha Kingsley, who is alleged to have
been appointed a paymaster in-the army.
The bond was executed on the 7th day of Febrvary 1810,
in which the plaintiff, and one Wilson P. Hunt, bind themselves jointly and severally, to pay to the United-States the
above sum. The condition of the obligation states, "that the
said Alpha Kingsley is about to be appointeda district pay=
master," &c. "who will, from time to time be charged with
funds, to execute and perform the duties attached to that
station, for which he will be held accountable," &c. and if he
shall "9well and truly execute the, duties of district paymster,
and regularly account for all moneys plated in his, hands, to

*SUPREME COURT.
[Smith vs; The UnitedStaes.]

carry into effect the- object of his appointment," &a. "then
the obligation to he void."
'Several pleas were filed, and relied on in the defenc.
In the first plea it is asserted, that from the time of executing the writing obligatory the said Kingsley did well and
. truly observe and fulfil the conditions of said bond, according
to their tenor and effect.
The second plea contains similar allegations, except -as to
accounting for all moneys in the-hands of said Kingsley; and
by way of excuse, the plea states that he was removed, from
office on the first day of April 1815, for various causes assigned; and that on the fifteenth of September following, he
reported-himself to the treasurer of the United States as ready
for-settlement, hut his accounts were not adjusted by the government;_ that at this time, and long afterwards, Kingsley
was solvent, and able to pay the full amount of his defalcation* that no notice was, given to him by the treasury department to account for moneys in his hands; nor was any
notice given-to the defendant below, untif about the commencement of the suit. And it is alleged, that before the
commencement of the suit Kingsley became insolvent.
In the third plea it is averred that Kingsley, neither at the
time the bond was executed, nor at any subsequent period,
was appointed -district paymaster.
The fourph plea denies that any money came into his hands,
as district paymaster.
To the second plea a demurrer was filed, anid issues were
joined on the third and fourth.
In their replication to the fourth and first pleas, the plaintiffl
allege that a large 'sum- of money came into the hands of
Kingsley as district paymaster, and that on a final adjustment
of his accounts in April 1823, there remained in his hands a
balance unaccounted for, of forty-eight thotfsahd four hundred
and ninety-two dollars and fifty-three cents.
The rejoinders stated that Kingsley did regularly account
for and pay to the plaintiffs all sums of money which came into
his hands, as district paymaster.
The jury found the issues of fact for the-plaintiffs, and that
thehdefendant as paymaster was indebted to the plaintiffs in the

JANUARY TERM 183I.
[Smith vs. The United States.]

sum of thirty-one thousand one hundred and ninety-seven dollars and fourteen cents. On this verdict, a judgment for ten
thousand dollars and costs of suit was entered.
At the trial, exceptions were taken to the evidence offered,
which being overruled, the following bill was tendered and
signed.
' The plantiffs, to maintain the issue on their part, read- to
the jury a duly certified copy of the bond sued on, and offered to read, as evidence, a paper purporting to be a transcript
from the books and proceedings of the treasury department,
containing an account headed Alpha Kingsley, late district
paymaster, in account with the United States. In which account, he was charged as late district paymaster, with moneys
advanced to him, for pay, subsistence, forage, bounties and
premiums, and contingent expenses of the army; and credited
with disbursements made under the same heads of expenditures
and showing a large amount of items suspended and disallowed.
By this account it appeared that the same had been settled. by
the third auditor of the-treasury, and it showed a balance due
to the United States of forty-eight thousand four hundred and
ninety-two dbllars and fifty three cents."
"The account was duly certified to the second comptroller
of the treasury; who admitted and certified the above balance,
on the 23d day of April 1823."
There were also the following certificates annexed, "Trea:
sury department, third auditor's office, 1st September 1824.
Pursuant to an act, to provide for the prompt settlement of
public accounts, app. ived.3d March 1817, I, Peter Hagner,

third auditor of the treasury of the United States, do hereby
certify, that the foregoing transcripts are true copies of the
originals on file in this office; signed, Peter Hagner, auditor."
"Be it remembered, that Peter Hagner, Esq. who certified
the foregoing transcripts, is now, and was at the time of
doing so, third auditor of the treasury of the United States,
and that faith and credit are due to his'official attestations. In
testimony whereof, I,- William H. Crawford; secretary of the
treasury, have hereunto subscribed my name, and causqd to he
affixed the seal of this department, at the city of Washington,
this 1st September 1824. Signed, Edward Jones, chief clerk,
VOL. V.-2 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith vs. The United States.)

for William H. Crawford, secretary of the treasury." To this
certificate, the seal of the treasury department wqs affixed.
There being no other evidence given to the jury. than this
transcript, the court instructed them, "that as by the account
it appears there are in it, items of debit and credit to Kingsley, as district paymaster, it furnished evidence of his having
acted as district paymaster, and of his appointment as such.
On the facts stated, a reversal of the judgment entered -in the
district court is insisted on.
1. Because the United States neglected to enforce their claim
against Kingsley, and
2. Because the court erred in admitting the transcript as
evidence, and -by instructing the jury, that it cohduced to
prove that the defendant was a district paymaster.
That the government has been negligent in settling the-account of Kingsley, and collecting the balance of monies in his
hands, it is contended, is shown, by the facts stated in the second plea to which the plaintiffs demurred. From the removal of Kingsley~from office, to the final adjustment of his
accounts in the treasury departmenti there was a lapse of
about eight years; during which period, it seems, he became
insolvent. That he was able to pay the amount of his defalcation, when he was dismissed, is admitted by the pleadings:
and also that -no -steps were taken by the government to recover the claim from him or his suretiei, until a short timebefore the commencement of the present action,
Sound policy requires that the accounts of disbursing officers should be adjusted at the proper department, with as
much despatch as is practicable. This is alike due to the public, and to persons who are held responsible as sureties. To
the individual who has received advances of money, no lapse.
of time nor change of circumstances can weaken the laim of
the government for reimbursement. But there may be some
eases of hardship, where, after a great lapse of time, and the insolvency -of the principal, the amount of the defalcation is
sought to be recovered from the sureties. The law on this
subject is founded upon considerations of public policy. While
various acts of limitation apply to the concerns of individuals,
none of them operate against the government. On this-point
there is nodifferenceof opinion among the federal or state courts.

JANUARY TERM 1831.

299

[Smith vs. The United States.]

The fiscal operations of the government are extensive and
often complicated. It is extremely difficualt at all times, and
sometimes impracticable, to settle the accounts of public officers, with as little delay as attends the private transactions of
a mercantile establishment. But it is always in the power of
an individual who may be lield responsible 'for the faithful
conduct of a public agent, to see that his accounts are settled
and the payment of any balance enforced. A notice to the
government, by the surety, that he is unwilling to continue
his responsibility, would induce it, in most instances, to take
the necessary steps for his release.
By the act of congress of the 3d March 1795, the comptroller of the treasury was authorized to issue a notification to
any person who had received moneys for which he is accountable to the United States, fixing -a reasonable time within.
which vouchers for the expenditures of such moneys shall be
returned; and if default be made, costs are to be charged against
the delinquent, whether in a suit judgment be given for or
against him.
In the same act, a revision by the comptroller of the settlement made by the auditor, is authorized; and after having
caused notices to be served, of items disallowed, &c. the decicision is declared to be final and conclusive.
This act, it is contended, has never been repealed, and that
until the notice authorized by it shall have been served, a
writ cannot be brought againd a defaulter.
If there had been no subsequent acts of congress on this
subject, it might be important to inquire whether the notice
authorized by this act was not merely directory to the officer,
and essential only to subject the delinquent to'the penalties
provided. By the actsof the 3d March 1797, and the 3d March
1817, material changes were made in the accounting Aepartment of the government; and although the act of 1795" may
not be expressly repealed, yet it is abrogated by new and
substantive provisions. Under the present mode-of proceeding against defaulters, the notice authorized by the act of 1795
is unnecessary.
The objection, made to- the authentication of. the transcript
given in evidence, presents a question of some d;fficlty.
As.the transcript has not bee4/made a part of the record,

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith vs. The lVmited States.]

the bill of exceptions must be"looked to, as containing the
ground of objection.
'By the second section of the act of the 3d March 1797 it is
provided, "that in every case of del inquency,,where suit has
been, or shall be, instituted, a transcript from the books and
proceedings of the treasury, certified by the repister (or under
the act of the 3d March 1817 by the auditor); and authenticated under-the seal of the department, shall be admitted as
evidence."
".And all copies of bonds, contracts, or other
papers, relating to, or connected with the settlement of any
account between the United States and an individual, when
certified, as aforesaid, to be true copies of the originals on
file, and authenticated under the seal of the department, may
be annexed to such transcripts, And shall have equal valitity,
and be entitled to the same degree of credit which would be
due to the.original papers, if produced and authentioated in
court."
The auditor pertifies, that the foregoing "tranacrp& are
true copies of the originalson file in his office." . It is the
certificate of the auditor, and the seal of the department, Whici
make the transcript evidence. If either be omitted; whatever the transcript may purport upon its face, it is not evidence.
Where copies are made evidence by statute, the mode of
,authentication required.must be strictly pursued. The legislature may establish new rules of. evidence, in derogation of
the com on law, but the judicial power is limited to the rule
laid down.
There are two kinds of transcripts which the statute authorizes the proper -oeficer to cettify. 'First, a transcript from
the "books and proceedings of the treasury;" andi second,
"4copies of bonds, contracts, and other papers, &c. which remain on file, ani relate to the settlement."
Under the first head are includid charges of moneys advanced or paid by the department to the agent, and an entry
of items.suspended, rejected orplaced to his credit. These all
appear upun the books of the department. The decision made
on" the vouchers exhibited, and the .statemenE of the amount,
constitute, in part, the proceedings of the treasury. Under
th second head, copies of papers which remain on file, and

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Smith vs. Tha United States.]

which have a relation: to the"settlement, may be certified. In
this case it is essential that the officer certify'that the transcripts "1are true copies of the originals, which remain on file."
This certificate has literally been made in the case under
consideration; and the question arises, whether it is a sufficient
authentication of the transcript, from the cbooke and pr3ceedings of the treasury."
A majority of the members of the
cotirt think that the certificate is a substantial compliance with
the requisitions of the statute.
They connect the certificate of the auditor with the statement in the bill of exceptions, that a " paper, purporting to be
a copy from the books and proceedings of the treasury)" was
offered in evidence; and c6nsider, that although the auditor
states, ttat "the foregoing transcripts, are true copies of, the
originals on file, in his office," the certificate can only relate
to the transcript offered in evidence, and that it sufficiently,
authenticates it. This construction is strengthened in their
opinion, by another statement in the bill of exceptions: cc that
a, auly, certified copy of the bond sued on, was offered to be
read as evidence."
Three of the judges think that the certificate, from the language used, can only relate to the transcript which contained
a copy of the bond. That it can only authenticate 6opibs of
papers; the originals of which renain on file., They consider
that the books of the department cannot be said to be on file,
nor are copies from the books dopies from the originals.
All moneys advanced or paid by 'the government are
charged in the books of the treasury, and a transcript from
these charges may be said to be copies .from the original, but
the credits entered are copied into the books from the vouchers rendered, and these vouchers remain on file. A transcript
from the books, therefore, it is believed, cannot be said to be
copies from the originals on file. That it is a copy from the
books, which is made evidence, and not a copy of the paper,
though it be o- file, on which the rough draft of the settlement
may have been entered.
They consider that the statement in the bill of exceptions,
that the transcript offered in evidence purported to be a
"copy from the books and proceedings of the treasury," as
merely descriptive of the paper, and- cannot cure the defect in

SUPREME COURT.
[Smith vs. The United States.3

the certificate. That it is not the -bodyof the transcript which
is to give it validity, but the authentication required by the
4tatute. The copy may be strictly accurate .inall its parts,
and come within the provibions of the law; yet if the seal be not
affixed, or the certificate be defective, the paper cannot be re,ceived as evidence. They consider this certificate to be defective, as every, word of it may be true, and yet the copies
from the 44 books and proceeaings" may be inaccurate. The
,auditor certifies nothing from the "books," or the " proceedings of the treasury;" and his language is so explicit in referring to "copies of originals on file, in his office," that the
three judges think that the certificate cannot by reference, or
any correct rule ofconstruction, be made to authenticate copies
from -" the books of the-treasury."
The objection, that the signature of the secretary of the treasury was signed by his chief clerk, seems not to be important.
It is the seal which authenticates the transcript, -and not the
signature of the secretary. He is not required to sign the paper. If the seal be affixed by the auditor, it would be deemed
sufficient under the statute. The question therefore is not necessarily involved in deciding' this point, whether the secretary of the treasury can delegate to another the power-to do
-n official act, which the law devolves on him personally.
A majority of the court think that the transcript from the
'. books and proceedings of the treasury," being admitted as
evidence, did conduce to prove not only that Kingsley acted
as-distinct paymaster, but his right so to act.
In the acount-he is charged as "clate district paymaster," with
moneys advanced to him for pay, subsistence,, forage, bounties
and premiums, and contingent expenses of the army; and credited with disbursements made under the same heads of expenditures of the army. These transactions not only establish,
prima facie, the correctness of the items charged, but show the
capacity in which the defendant acted.
As district paymaster he receives money and disburses
it in.discharge of the duties required of paymasters. His
vouchers for moneys expended prove this, and every item
stated in the account goes -to establish the fact, that the governmentrecognized the official capacity which he assumed.
Thesefacts appearing upon the face of the transiript, might

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Smith vs. The United States.]

well be considered by the jury as at least cotfducing to prove
the official character of Kingsley.
Although on each of the principal objections relied on as
showing error in the proceedings of the district court, a majority of the members of this court think there is no error
yet the judgment of the district court must be reversed, as on
the question of reversal, the minorities unite, and constitute a
majority of the court.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the district court of the United States for fhe district
of Missouti, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said district court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby
*remanded to the said district court for further proceedings to be
had therein, as to law and justice may appertain., and in conformity to the opinion of this court.

