JANUARY TERM 1831.

ALEXANDER M. PELTZ ET AL. PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR VS. JOSEPH"S. CLARKE, DEFENDANT IN ERnOR.
It is undoubtedl 5 vell settled, as a general rule, th3t a court of law will not permit an outstanding satisfied mortgage to be set up against the mortgagor. Yet
the legal title is not technically released by receiving the money. This rule
must then be founded on an equitable exercise by courts of law over parties in
ejectments. It would be contrary to the plainest principles of equity and justice to permit a stranger, who had no interest in the mortgage, to set it up when
it had been satisfied by the mortgagor himself to defeat his title. But if this
stranger had himself, paid it off; if this mortgage had been bought in by him;
he would be considered as an assignee and might certainly use it for his protection.
The defendant in the circuit court is the owner of the equitable estate, and has
paid off !he mortgage on his owi, account, and for his own benefit. The incumbrance, under these circumstances, is the property of him to whom the
etate belongs in equity. The reason of the rule does not apply to such a case.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States in the
district of Columbia, for the county of Washington.
in the circuit court, the plaintiffs in error instituted an
action of ejectment for the recovery of a lot of ground in the
district of Columbia. It appeared in evidence that under a
decree of the circuit court for the county of Washington, the
estate of John Peltz, deceased, had been sold by Charles Glover and John Davis, trustees, appointed for the purpose of
making sale of the same, for the payment of his debts; and
that the defendant in error had purchased at the sale the property in cofitroversy. No deed had been made by the trustees to the purchaser, in consequence of the loss of some title
papers; but he had paid the greater portion of the purchase
money.
John Peltz, the ancestor of the plaintiffs in error, had, previous to his decease, mortgaged the estate in controversy to
Frederick Gammar; who proceeded on the mortgage ip

chancery, against the trustees, Charles Glover and John
Davis, and against Alexander and Michael Peltz, as heirs of
John Peltz-; and obtained a decree of foreclosure, and for a sale
of the mortgaged premises. The defendant in error, after
the decree, having been so advised by the mortgage,, paid to
VOL. V._3 T

SUPREME COURT.
vs. Clarke.]
[Peltz et al.

him, with the consent and approbation and in the presefice
of.Mr Glover, one of the trustees, the whole'amount due upon
the mortgage; the sum paid being considered as part of the
purchase money due under the purchase from the trustees.
On this payment being made, the mortgagor gave to the defendant in error, a receipt for the amount of the mortgage,
and an order to enter the sdit on the mortgage " settled."
On the docket -of the court,'an entry was made in the mortgage suit, "settled says complainant.' See order."
The plaintiffs claimed the property as the heirs at law of
John Peltz.
The 'plaintiffs prayed the court to instruct the jury, that
the .mortgage.so paid was not outstanding and subsisting so as
to bar the plaintiff's right to recover; which the court refused
to do; to which the counsel for the plaintiff excepted: and
judgment having been entered on the verdict for the defendant, the plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
Mr Key, for the plaintiffs in error, contended; that although
the defendant might have a good defence in equity,. for the
mortgage money paid by him, he had no defence at law. He
cited Rummington on Ejectment, 119. Esp. N. P. 457, 458.
6 Johns. Rep. 34. 2 Harris and M'ienry, 9. 17. 3 Harris
and M'Henry, 399.
Mr Jones, for the defendant,, said; that on the plaintiffs' own
showing, there is a mortgage in fee, a forfeiture, and a decree
of foreclosure. If a-mortgage is satisfied by the mortgagor,
it is admitted that the mortgage cannot be set up; but here
the purchaser, before he.received a deed from the trustees,
under their sale, paid off the mortgage; and he sets it up for his
protection. Having paid the amount of his purchase from
the trustees, within a small sum, the defendant stands on his
possession, and having paid for his own benefit the outstanding
mortgage.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an ejectment brought by the plaintiffs in error
against the defendant, in the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Columbia.

JANUARY TERM 1S31.
[Pelz et al. as. Clarke.]

The plaintiffs, who are the heirs of John Peltz, gave the
title of their ancestor in evidence.
The defendant then proved that the land, for which this
ejectment was brought, was sold under a decree of the circuit
court for the'district of Columbia, and purchased by him, he
being the highest bidder. That he gave his notes to Charles
Glover and John Davis, the trustees appointed to make the
sale under the decree; was put into possession of the premises
by them; had paid nearly all the purchase money, and declared
his readiness to pay the residue on receiving a title. He also
gave in evidence a deed of mortgage, executed by John Peltz,
in his life time, conveying the premises to Frederick Gammar.
The plaintiffs then proved, that a decree for the foreclosure
and sale of the mortgaged premises, had been obtained by the
representatives of the mortgagee. The defendant acting under
the advice of one of the trustees, appointed to execute this
decree, paid in part for his purchase the money due upon the
mortgage, and the return showed the admission of the mortgagee that it was settled.
The plaintiffs prayed the court to instruct the jury, that this
mortgage was not an outstanding title which could bar the
plaintiffs' right to recover. The court refused to give this
instruction, and the plaintiffs excepted to its opinion. The
jury found a verdict for the defendant, and the judgment rendered on that verdict has been removed into this court by writ
of error.
It is undoubtedly well settled as a general principle, that a
court of law will not permit an outstanding satisfied mortgage
to be set up against the mortgagor. This is fully proved by
the cases cited in argument by the counsel for the plaintiffs.
Yet the legal title is not technieally released by receiving the
money. This rule must then be founded on an equitable control exercised by courts of law over parties in ejectment. It
would be contrary to the plainest principles of equity and
justice, to permit a stranger, who had no interest in the mortgage, to set it up when it had been satisfied by the mortgagor
himself, to defeat his title. But if this stranger had himself
paid it off,. if this mortgage had been bought in by him, he
would be considered as an assignee, and might certainly use
it for his protection.

SUPREME COURT.
[Peltz et al. vs. Clarke.]

In the case at bar, the defendant is the owner of the equitable estate, and has paid off the mortgage on his own account,
and fbr his own benefit. This incumbrance, under these circumstances, is the property of him to whom the estate belongs
in equity. The reason of the rule does not apply to the case.
We do not think that the mortgagor, his interest having been
sold under a decree of court, could demand a reconveyance
from the mortgagee to himself, the mortgage being satisfied by
the purchase under that decree.
There is no error in the judgment of the circuit court; ane
it is affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
considered, ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed, with costs.

