JANUARY TERM 1831.

WILL Am FoWLE, AND THE ADMIMNSTRATORS OF THOMAS
LAWRASON, APPELLANTS VS. JAmES , LAWRASON'S EXECU-

TOR, APELiE.
After an arbitrament and award, an action was instituted at law upon the award.
and the court being of 'opinion the award was void for informality, ju~gment
was given for the defendant. A bill was then filed by the plaintiff, on the equity
side of the circuit court for the county of texandria, to establish the settlement
of complicated accounts between the parties, which was made by the arbitrators; and it at could not be done, for a settlement of them under the authority
of a court of chancery. This is not a case proper for the jurisdiction of a
court of chancery.
Although the line may not be drawn with absolute precision, yet it may be safely
affirmed tbat a court of chancery cannot draw to itself every transaction between individuals, in which an account between parties is to be adjusted. In
all cases in which an action of account would be the proper remedy at law, and
in all' cases where a trustee is a party, the jurisdiction of a court of equity is
undoubted. It is the appropriate tribunal.

THIS was an appeal from the equity side of the circuit
court, of the district of Columbia.
James Lawrason, the testator oi the appellee, filed a bill in
the circuit court of Alexandria, against the appellant, William
Fowle, as surviving partner of Thomas Lawrason, who.had
died intestate, and who with William Fowle, had carried on
business under the firm of LaWrason and Fowle. *After the
decease of James Lawrason, the suit was prosecuted by his
executor.
The bill charges, that the complainant, James Lawrason,
being seized of one moiety of -a wharf and warehodse, if the
town of Alexandria, and his son, Thomas Lawrason, of the
tther moiety.4 the said Thomas being then a co-partner of
Fowle; the complainant agreed to rent to the co-partnership his
moiety of the same, and that, on or about the day of they entered on the possession, and occupied them'until the
death of the said Thomas; that the complainant understooa and
supposed that he was to be paid for his moiety'the annual rent
of one thousand six hundred dollars; and that he expects to
prove that the said Thomas frequently acknowledged-that to be
the annual rent. That the complainaants interest in the property was worth that rent. That during the period the said

SUPREME COURT.
[Fovle et al.
vs. Lawrason.]

Lawrason and Fowl- occupied the premises, dealings and other
matters of account took place between them, and the complainant; which not having been settled during the life of
Thomas Lawrason; it was agreed after his death that the accounts between the complainant and the firm should be settled
by arbitration, and that arbitrators were accordingly appointed
to make the settlement. That the arbitrators awarded the siam
of two thousand dollars in favour of the complainant; which
award, with the accounts on which it was founded, are exhibited.
That the defendant, Fowle, refused to submit to the award,
alleging that the arbitrators were under a misapprehension
as to the complainant's interest in the rent. That the complainant brought a suit-at law on the award; and the court decided
on the trial that in consequence of some error in the submission, and in the form of the award, it could not be sustained.
That the effect'of this decision may be to open the accounts
between the parties, and if so, they can no where be so correctly settled as in the court of chancery. That he considers
himself, however, entitled to the benefit of the settlement
made by the arbitrators; and that, although a suit at law might
not be sustained on the award, yet in equity it is valid and
binding, that he claims the benefit of it; but if this cannot be
obtained, he must submit to anotheV settlement to be made by
order of the court. The bill concludes with a prayer for the
settlement of accounts and for general relief.
The complainant's bill having been taken pro confesso as
against the defendant, Fowle, the court at November term
1823, directed an account to be taken by the auditor between
the complainant and the defendant, Fowle, as surviving partner, &c. as well in relation to the rents claimed of the firm,
as to all other matters of account. between them; and the auditor was authorized to take such legal testimony as should be
offered by the parties, ani to report, '&c. At May term 1824,
the complainant having died, Aaron R. Levering, his executor, was made complainantAt April term 1S25, the auditor returned his report, accompanied by the depositions of Elisha and Romulus Rigg
for the complainant, and those of Thomas Irwin and Phineas
Janney for the defendant.
From the report of the auditor, it appears, that there existed

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Fowle et a]. vs. Lawrason.]

no difficulty in the settlement of the general account (exclusively of rent) between James Lawrason and the defendant
Fowle, as surviving partner. The balance- on this account in
favour of Fowle, being admitted to be eleven thousand seven
hundred and sixty-niue dollars and thirty cents. That as to
the rents, the only difference that existed between the parties,
was, whether the amount which had been claimed by James
Lawrason, and admitted by the auditor, was to be considered
as the rent of the whole of the wharf and warehouse as contended for by the defendant Fowle; or was to be considered as
the rent of the warehouse; and the complainant'smoiety of
the wIla2f only, leaving Fowle still accountable to the -representatives of Thomas Lawrason for the rent of his moiety
of the wharf. If the latter is correct, there is a balance of
two thousand six hundred and thirty-eight dollars and eightythree cents, with interest from the 21st of August 1819, due
the complainant from the defendant Fowle, as surviving partner. If the former, there is a balance due from the complainant to the defendant of one thousand two hundred and ninetyfive dollars and ninety-three cents, with interest, &c.
From the evidence laid before the auditor, he decides and
reports accordingly, "that the amount of rents claimed by the
complainant, ought to be considered, not as his share or dividend, but as a reasonable rent for the whole of the wharf
and warehouse; but as the defendant Fowle admitted that
Thomas Lawrason had never made nor intimated an intention
to make any charge against the company for rent, on account
of that half of the wharf which had been conveyed to him,
this, taken into consideration with his declarations as stated in
the depositions of E. and R. Riggs, induced him (the auditor)
to believe that it was his (T. Lawrason's) intention that the
whole rent of the property should go to his father (the plaintiff) during his life; be therefore reported the balance of two
thousand six hundred and thirty-eight dollars and eighty-three
cents, to be due to the complainant from the defendant Fowle."
At November term 1825, Hugh Smith and Nehemiah Carson, administrators of Thomas Lawrason, were made defendants. At April term following, the complainant filed his
amended bill against them, calling on them to answer to hisoriginal bill, as if they had been originally made parties to it;
VOL. V.-S N

498.

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle et a]. vs. Lawrason.]

and praying that theyr may be bound by any decree the court
may make, in the sane manner, and to the same extent, as if
they had been parties originally. At April term 1827, the
answers of the defendant Fowle and of the administrators of
Thomas Lawrason were filed.
The answer of Fowle admits the co-partnership, cummencing in 1804, and terminating by the death of T. Lawrason in
1819. That the wharf and warehouse were rented from the
complainant, then the sole owner, inr 1804 at four hundred and
fifty dollars, per annum, which rent was placed to the complainant's credit, on the books of the firm, until the year 1808.
That about that time great improvements were made, and the
property became more'valuable; but as no contract was made
and no sum named by the complainant for the rent, after that
time no further credits were given him. That duringthe
existence of the co-partnership, the amount to be paid for the
annual rent never was fixed. That after the death of his part,ner he called on the plaintiff for his account. That the account
was rendered, and admitted by the defendant Fowle, except
as to the rate of rent for one year only. That the account on
its face piurported to be for the rent of the whole of the wharf
and warehouse, and was so understood by him when he admitted it. That no claim for rent had ever been made by his
deceased partner, and that he expected the complainant and
the representatives of his deceased partner would settle between themselves the proportion the latter was to receive.
That some difference having arisen between the complainant
and him relative to the account of the firm against the com-.
plainant, this, with the difference as to the amount of one year's
rent, was submitted to arbitration. That the arbitrators made
an award with which the defcndant was perfectly satisfied,
believing the credits allowed the complainant for rent were
for the -entire rent of the premises, that they were so understood to be by one of the two arbitrators. That on the awardbeing returned, he communicated it to one of the administrators
of his deceased partner, and requested him to call on the complainant, and adjust with him the 'proportion of rent to be
allowed to the estate of his deceased partner, that he might
charge it to the complainant, and credit the administrators of
his partner with it; and then for the. first time learnt that the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Fowle at al. vs. Lawrason.]

,:omplainant claimed the whole amount of credits allowed; not
as the entire rent'of the premises, nor under any contract or
engagement with his son; but as his share of the rent, leaving
the defendant Fowle, as 6urviving partner, still liable to the
claims of the administrators of his deceased partner, for his
share of the rent. That he endeavoured to prevail on the
complainant to open the award on this point, and to consent
to a valuation or estimate of his share of the rent, but failed
in his attempt. That the complainant sued on thisaward, and
that judgment was rendered in the defendant's favour. This
judgment he pleads, and -relies on as a bar to all claims on the
award.
He professes to be still willing to make the complainant a
fair allowance for his share or proportion of rent, which he
avers will fall far below the sum he claims. He charges, that
in 1812 the complainant sold and conveyed one moiety of the
wharf to his son T. Lawrason.
The answer of the administrators of Thomas Lawrason
elarges,'that in 1812 the complainant sold and conveyed tohim one moiety of the wharf: they exhibit the deed of conveyance made in consideration of the sum of six thousand five
hundred dollars: they deny the -complainant's right to the
whole rent, and deny that their intestate ever relinquished his
share to the complainant. They aver, that although he survived his son for many years, he never made any such pretension, and that he makes none such in his bill. They require
proof of the complainant's right lo the rent of his son's share
of the wharf; if a decree is asked in-his favour on that ground.
The deposition of Elisha Riggs, returnedby the-auditor,
states a conversation between the witness and Thomas Lawrason in 1817, in which the latter said that the firm of Lawrason
and Fowle were- paying the complainant one thousand six
hundred dollars a year for the rent of the wharf and warehouse.
Romulus Riggs testifies to the same conversation.
Thomas Irwin and Phineas Janney testify on their examination before the auditor, that they *ere well acquainted with
the premises, the rent of which forms the subject of contraversy, and that they consider the sums which the complainant
has charged, and which are allowed by the auditor, as a full
rent for the whole of the wharf and warehouse.

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle et al. vs. Lawrason.]

The court on hearing decided that the defendant Fowle, as
surviving partner, should pay to the complainant the sum of two
thousand six hundred and thirty-eight dollars and eighty-eight
cents, with interest from the 23d of August 1819, and costs.
But without prejudice to any claims which the representatives of Thomas Lawrason, deceased, may make on the eslate of the said James Lawrason, for any portion of the
rents thereby decreed against the defendant Fowle.
No disposition was made of the case as to the administrators
of Thomas Lawrason. From this decree, Fowle, and the administrators of T. Lawrason, appealed to this court
Mr Taylor and Mr Jones for the appellants, contended,
1. That the bill presents no case to givp jurisdiction to a
court of- equity. That the decree is erroneous, in as much as
it does not settle the question of right between the complainant and the executors of Thomas Lawrason.
2. That in decreeing against Fowle, the court proceeds on the
principle 'tat the suti -decreed covers the whale rent; and yet
they have not protected him against the claim of Thomas Lawrason's administrators for his share.
3., If the decree be construed to afford such protection, then
the administrators of Thomas Lawrason will contend that the
court possessed no power to take away their right of recovery
against Fowle.
The ease exhibited in the bill, answer and depositions, was
plainly a case for a court of law, and not of chancery jurisdiction. No discovery is asked for; and no allegation that facts
are w;anted, for the development of which the aid of a'court
of equity is required. There is a general allegation of equity;
but this does not give jurisdiction.
The claim of the complainants is one founded on an account;
and although it is admitted that matters of accounts are of
equity jurisdiction, yet they are so when they are between
parties who are peculiarly within the supervision of courts of
chancery; such as guardians and trustees. B3ecause the transactions between parties are of long standing, and the accounts,
are complicated and composed of numbrous items, chancery
jurisdiction is not given.
There must be an original ground of equity.

JANUARY TERM 181.
[Fowle et al. vs. Lawrason.]

.Nor does the fact that the complainant's testator had instituted, a suit in a court of law and had there failed, show the
existence of chancery jurisdiction. The award which was
given in that suit was not found sufficient to maintain an action; but the original cause of action remains, and may yet be
pursued in" a court of law.

Mr Swann, for the appellee, stated: that after a long controversy at law, and a subinission to arbitrators, an award was made
in favour-of the testator of the appellee. An action on that
award terminated in a decision that could not be sustained;
and thus it was held that the appellee had no standing in a
court of law. Now he is to be driven from a court of equity,
and hung up like Mahomet's coffin; and is to be suspended between the two courts, and denied an entry to either.
The bill and proceedings show a long account between the
parties, intricate, and involving many questions which can
best be determined by a court of chancery. Matters of account are enumerated as the peculiar jurisdiction of such
courts. Cited Mad. Ch. 85.
lr Chief Justice MAnSHAiL delivered th.e opinion of the
Court.
James Lawrason in his life time filed his bill in the circuit
court of the United States, sitting in chancery for the county
of Alexandria, stating, that being seized of a warehouse and one
moiety of a wharf in the town of Alexandria, of which his son
Thomas Lawrason was seized of the other moiety, he agreed
to rent the premises toLawrason and Fowle, a commercial house
in the said town, of which the defendant Witliam Fowle is the
surviving partner; the saidLawrason andFbwle entered into the
premises under the contract, and retained possession thereof
several years. The plaintiff says, he understood and supposed that he was to receive sixteen hundred dollars each. year,
for theproperty, and that it was reasonably worth that sum;
but that no express stipulation was entered into fixing the
amount of rent. The plaintiff also had Qther dealings with
Lawrason and Fowle, and the account remained unsettled
until the death of Lawrason, who was the son of the plaintiff.

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle et al. vs. Lawrason.]

The bill states that the parties agreed to leave the whole
subject to arbitration, and that the arbitrators reported a large
sum in his favour. A suit was instituted on this award; and
the court being of opinion that it was void in law, for informality, gave judgment for the defendant. This suit is brought
to establish the settlement of the accounts between the parties,
which was made by the arbitrators; or if that cannot be done,
for a settlement of them under the authority of a court 6f
chancery.
The suit abated by the death of the plaintiff, and was revived in the name of his executor. It appearing, that thezcpresentatives of Thomas Lawrason the son, who owned a
moiety of the wharf occupied by Lawrason and Fowle, were
interested in the controversy; they were made parties. The
answers were then filed. The defendant Fowle admits the
occupation of the premises without any specific agreement as
to the amount of rent; and admits the reference to arbitrators
after the death of his partner.
*Heunderstood that the whole rent payable both for the warehopse and wharf was claimed .by James Lawrason, until after
the award was made; and the arbitrators, he is satisfied, made
the award under this impression. On understanding that
Thomas Lawrason's executors asserted a right to so much of
the rent as was equivalent to his interest in the wharf, the
defendant requested that it might be apportioned between
them; and then discovered that James Lawrason claimed the
whole rent awarded as being for his interest; leaving the defendant liable to the executors of Thomas Lawrason. Every
effort to adjust this difference having proved unavailing, the
defendant refused to perform the award; and the suit instituted thereon by James Lawrason was decided against the
plaintiff
The*answer of Thomas Lawrason's administrators asserts
the right of their intestate to so much of the rent, as will be a
just compensation for his interest in the wharf.
The accounts were referred to a commissioner who reported the sum of two thousand six hundred and thirty-eight dollars and eiglity-three cents, with interest from the 26th day of
August 1819, to be due to the executors of James Lawrason;
should he be dntitled to the whole rent accruing on the de-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Fowle'et al. vs. Lawrason.]

mised premises: should the rent on the moiety of the wharf
owned by Thomas Lawrason be deducted, the plaintiffs were
entitled to nothing.
The court decreed the sum reported by the commissioner,
without prejudice to any clgm which the representatives of
Thomas Lawrason, deceased, may make upon the estate of
James Lawrason, deceased, for any portion of the rents decreed to be paid by the defendant Fowle.
From this decree the defendants appealed to this court.
Two errors have been assigned.
1.- The party complaining had a plain and'adequate remedy at law.
2. The decree ought to have settled finally the rights of
Thomas Lawrason's executor.
That a court of chancery has "jurisdiction in matters of account cannot be questioned, nor can it be doubted that this
jurisdiction is often beneficially exercised; but it cannot be
admitted that a court of equity may take cognizance of every
action, for goods, wares and merchandize sold and delivered,
or of money advanced, where partial payments" have been
made, or of every contract, express or implied, .consisting of
various items, on which different sums of money have become due and different payments have been made. Although the line may not be drawn with absolute precision; yet it may be safely affirmed that a court of chancery cannot draw to itself every transaction between individuals in which an account between parties is to be adjusted.
In all cases in which an action of account would be the proper
remedy at law, and in all. cases where a trustee is a party, the
jurisdiclion ofa court of equity is irndoubted. It is the-appropriate tribunal. Butin transactions not of this peculiar character, great complexity ought to exist in the accounts, or
some difficulty at law should interpose, some discovery should
be required, in order to induce a court of chancery to exercisejurisdictton. 1 iMad. Chan. 86. 6 Ves. 136. 9 Ves.
437. In th6 case, at bar these difficulties do not occur.
The plaintiff sues'on a contract by which real property is
leased to the defendant, and admits himself to be in full possession of all the testimony he requires to support his action.
The defendant opposes to this claim as an offset, a sum of no'ner

504

SUPREME COURT.
[Fowle et al. vs. Lawrason.]

due to him for goods sold and delivered, and for money advanced; no item of which is alleged to be contested. We
cannot think such a case proper for a court of chancery. We
are, therefore, of opinion that the decree of the circuit court
ought to be reversed; and the cause remanded with directions
to dismiss the bill, the court having no jurisdiction.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the circuit court of the United States, for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
considered, ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to dismiss the bill, the court having no jurisdiction.

