SUPREME COURT

JOSIAH LEwis,

FRANCES LEWIS, AND WILLIMi RAWLE,
EXECUTORS AND EXECUTRIX oF WILLiAmE LEwis, DECEASED, AND THE SAID JOSIAH LEwis, MARGARET AND LOUISA
AGAID AND LiwIs H. CONOVER, HEIRS, &C. OF SAID LEWIS,
AND RICHARD WILLING, ELIZA M. VILLING, THos. WILLING, AND GEO" C. WILLING, HEIRS, &C. -OF CHARLES
WILLING, DECEASED, APPELLANTS v8. HumPHREY MARSHALL, JACOB FEEBECK, HENRY Ricmny, JOHN FOWLER.
AND OTHERS, APPELLEES.

By a statute of Kentucky passed in 1796, several defendants, who claim separatr
tracts of land, from distinct sources of tit: -may be joined in the same suit.
The statute of limitations of Kentucky, under which adverse possession of land
may be set up, prescribes the limitation of twenty years within which suit
must be brought; and provides "that if any person or persons entitled to such
writ on writs, or title of entry, shall be, or were under the age of twenty-one
years, fene covert, non comi os mentis, imprisoned, or not within the coMmonwealti, at the time such right accrued or came to them, every such person, his or her heirs, shall and may, notwithstanding the said tiventy years,
are or shall be expired, bring or maintain his action, or make his entry within
ten years, next after such disabilities removed, br death of the person so dis,
abled, and not afterwards.
The entries" on the register of burials of Christ Church, St. Peter's and St
Jamess in Philadelphfa, and the entries of the death of the members of the
family ina family Bible; are evidence in an ac tion for the recovery of lapd in
Kenucky, to prove the period of the decease of the person named therein
The statute of limitations of Kentucky is a bar to the claims of an heir to a
non-resident petentee, holding under a grant from the state of Kentucky found,
ed on warrants issued out of the land office of Virginia, prior to the separation
of Kentucky from Virginia, if possession has been taken in the life time of the
patentee. Had the land descended to the heirs, before a cause of action existed by an adverse possession, the statute could not operate against them, until
they came within the state. If adverse possession commences prior to the
decease of the non-resident patentee, his heirs are limited to ten years from
the time of the decease of their ancestor for the assertion of their claim.
That a statute of limitations may be set up in defence in equity, as well as at
law; is a principle well settled.
Statutes of limitations have been emphatically and justly denominated statutes
of repose. The best interests of society require that causes of'action should
not be deferred an unreasonable time. This remark is peculiarly applicable to
land titles. Nothing so much retards the growth and prosperity of a country
is insecurity of titles to real estate. Labour is paralysed, when the enjoyment
ofits fruits is uncertain; and litigation without limit produces ruinous consequences to the individuals. The legislature of Kentucky have, therefore, wisely
provided, that unless suits for the recovery of land shall be brought within a
limited period, they shall be barred by an adverse possession.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Lewis et al. vs. Marshall et al.]

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for
the district of Kentucky.
The appellants claimed in their bill, under the heirs of
Charles Willing, deceased, a tract of land in the state of Kentucky, by virtue of certain entries made in the life time of
Charles Willing, with the proper surveyor, on the 27th December 1783, and amended on the llth and 12th of March
1784; and carried into grant by virtue of legal and valid
surveys. This entry was averred to be good and valid. The
patent was dated thirty years before the filing of the-bill.
The bill states that Thomas Barbour had by and under
a void entry obtained the 'legal title, elder in date, to'the title
held by Charles Willing, to a large portion of the land included in the patent to Charles Willing, and that the defendants
had become vested with the title to the whole or parts of the
land patented to Barbour, and are in possession of the same.
It prays that those who hold the said land under the elder
legal title of Barbour may be decreed to convey the same to
them; and for general relief.
The-defendants, in their answer, resist the equity asserted
by the complainants, and assert that the entries 'of Charles
Willing were void. They set up in addition to the entry of
Barbour, other claims and entries, under which they, other than
Marshall and Fowler, originally settled and held.
The validity of all that enters was denied by the complainants. These defendants rely upon twenty years adverse possession prior to the commencemeht of the suit.
Humphrey Marshall resisted the equity claimed in the bill,
and asserted in himself a previously acquired title to 12,313
acres, part of the land in contest, under an entry in the name
of Isaac Halbert. That he afterwards acquired from John
Fowler an interest in Barbour's patent, exhibiting evidence
of this asserted title.
He states that for a valuable consideration he had sold and
conveyed,under Barbour's title, certain portions of land to his
co-defendants; and exhibited the deeds showing the extent of
the same, and of the -possession *of each under the claim of
Barbour. That these defendants were found by him in possession, under claims adverse to Barbour's, and he compromised
with them, and gave them conveyances.

SUPREME COURT.
[Lewis et al. vs. Marshall et al.]

Thomas Barbour, on the 23d of September 1804, conveyed
the 4530 acres, patented by him to John Fowler.
In 1813, Halbdrt conveyed his title to H. Marshall. Neither Fowler or Marshall at these dates was in possession
of any part of the land, under either title, nor has either of
them ever been in possession of any part of the interference.
In 1819, Marshall and Fowler entered into a contract, by
which Marshall was authorized to sell and convey t6 persons
in possession, the title of Barbour.
In support of the heirship of the complainants, as the heirs
of Charles Willing, the patentee, a deposition of William
Jackson was taken, who deposed that he was acquainted with
Charles Willing, late of Pennsylvania, and that he died in 1798;
that Thomas Willing, Richard Willing, Elizabeth Willing,
and George C. Willing, were his only children and heirs.
Also the deposition ofA. G. Bird, the clerk of Christ's Church
in Philadelphia; who swore that he has the register book of
burials of said church, and copies from said book, an entry
which is authenticated, and reads as follows: "Burial in Christ's
Church-yard, 23d March 1788, Charles Willing."
Richard Willing, of the city of Philadelphia, deposed
that he has the family Bible of fiis father, Thomas Willing, who, he swears, was very particular in entering the
names of the births, marriages and deaths of his, the said
Thomas's brothers and sisters; and that in said Bible is the
following entry or record: "Charles.Willing, son of Charles
and Ann Willing, died at Coventry farm, the 23d March
1788, and was interred in Christ's Church-yard."
The circuit court dismissed the bill, principally on the ground
that the statute of limitations of the state of Kentucky, as
applied to courts of equity, barred the claim of the complainants
The complainants appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Wickliffe, for the appellants;
and byMr Clarke, for the appellees.
For the appellants, it was contended; that the circuit court
,erred in dismissing the bill: as, if Fowler had parted with his
interest in the land to Humphrey Marshall, then a decree should

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lewis et al. vs. Marshall et al.]

have gone against all the defendants, and particularly Humphrey Marshall, as time did not operate against the complainant, as to his title, he never having bben in the possession of
any part of the land.
That the statute did not operate against the complainants'
title, as to the defendants in possession, until they acquired the
title of Barbour; because, nntil.that title was vested in them,
there was in equity no cause of action against them, as to the
complainants in this cause.
If the proof in this cause establish the fact that Charles
Willing died in 1788, then the complainants are within the
saving of the act of 1796; if that act be construed as is contended for, and was decided in the court below.
For the defendants it was argued, that the possession of the
defendants was clearly proved to have taken place in 1795, before the death of Charles Willing, who held at the time the
title now set un by his heirs, he having died in 1798.
The statute of limitations began to run against the complainants, and their ancestors, the time the defendants' possession
commenced. He and his heirs had ten years by special
proviso, to institute suit; but failing to do it, were barred: the
rule being the same in equity as law.
Being non-residents, the law cast on them the privilege of
ten years thereafter, within which to institute suit; they failed
to do so. But in 1822 they filed their bill. Not only the
ten years from the death of their ancestor were gdne, but
more than twenty years from the time of taking possession
by defendants had elapsed. The consequence was, a total loss
of the right of action both at law and in chancery.
Mr Justice M'Li.AN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit in chancery was brought into this court by an appeal from the decree of the circuit court of Kentucky.
In their bill the complainants charge, that Charles Willing,
under whom they claim, in his life time, made an entry with the
proper surveyor, and on the 27th December 1783, and amended the same on the'llth and 12th of March 1784,'for 32,000
acres of land, on certain treasury warrants, beginning 1280
poles south wdst of the Lower Blue Licks, &c.; which entry
VOL V -3

K

SUPREME COURT.
[Lewis et al. vs. Marshall et al.]

is alleged to be valid, and was carried into grant after a legal
suivey had been made.
The bill further states, that Thomas Barbour had, by virtue
of a void entry, obtained the legal title, elder in date than the
patent to Willing, for a part of the land covered by Willing's
entry, survey and patent; and that the defendants are in possession of the land, and claim title to it under Barbour's patent and other claims. A release of their title is prayed, &c.
The defendants in their answer insist, that Wlling's entry
is void; and other claims than Barbour's are asserted, under
which the-defendants, except Marshall and Fowler, originally
settled.
Marshall sets up a title in himself, of elder date, under an
entry in the name of Isaac Halbert, for 12,311 acres. That
he afterwards purchased an interest in Barbour's patent from
Fowler, and conveyed to his co-defendants. These deeds
were executed several years before the commencement of this
suit.
The entries under which the defendants claim are some,
if not all, of prior date to Willing's; but their validity is contested by the complainants. In defence, an adverse possession
of twenty years, before the commencement of this suit, is relied on.
By the pleadings, the validity of the complainants' entry is
involved, and also those under which the defendants claim.
If Willing's entry should be held good, it might then be important to examine into the validity of the defendants' entry,
which are of prior date. But if Willing's entry should be
held bad, there would be an end to the controversy; as Barbour's patent, under which the defendants claim, is older than
Willing's. If the title by adverse possession shall be sustained, as to all the defendants, no inquiry need be made into
the validity of the respective entries.
No exception is taken to joining several defendants in the
same suit, who claim separate tracts of land, from distinct
sources of title. This is allowed by a statute of Kentucky
passed in 1796, which was designed to lessen the.expense of
litigation. The statute under which the adverse possession is
set up prescribes the limitation of twenty years, within which

JANUARY TERM 1831.
(Lewis et ,l.
vs. Marshall et al.]

suit must be brought; and provides, "cthat if any person or
persons entitled to such writ or writs, or such title of entry,
as aforesaid, shall be, or- were, under the age of twenty one
years; feme covert, non compos mentis, imprisoned or not
within the commonwealth at the time such right or title accrued or coming to them, every such person, his or lier heirs
shall, and may, notwithstanding the said twenty years are, or
shall be expired, bring or maintain his action, or make his
entry, within ten y'ears next after such disabilities removed,
or death of the person so disabled, and not afterwards."
It is not pretended that the iincestor of the complainants
was'ever within the state of Kentucky, after possession of the
land in controversy was taken by any of the defendants; consequently, had he lived and prosecuted his action, the statute
could not bar his recovery. But his representatives, in asserting their right, must bring themselves within the limitation of
ten years from the time of his decease, if the adverse possession were taken prior to that period. It is, therefore important to ascertain the* time of Charles Willing's death, To
prove this, the following extract from the registerbook of burials
in Christ Church, St Peters's, and St James's in Philadelphia is
read as evidence: "Burial in Christ Church-yard, March
23d, 1788, Charles Willing." Signed, Albert G. Bird, clerk,
and duly certified by the bishop, &c. The clerk testifies, that
the extract is truly copied from the original register book of
burials.
Richard Willing, a witness, also states, that he is in possession of a family Bible, kept hy his deceased father, Thomas
Willing, Esquire, who was very particular in making entries
of the births, marriages, and deaths of all his brothers and
sisters and their children, and that the following entry is
found in the book, in the hand writing of his father: "Charles
Willing, son -of Charles and Ann Willing, died at Coventry
Farm, the 22d March, 1788, and was interred in Christ
Church ground."
William. Jackson, of Philadelphia, being sworn, states, that
he was acquainted with Charles Willing, late of the state of
Pennsylvania; and'that he died sometime in the year 1798; leaving, by his first wife, Thomas Willing, Richard Willing, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Lewis et al. vs. Mlarshall et aIJ

Eliza M. Willing, and by his second wife, George C. Willing,
his only children and heirs at law.
If the ancestor of the complainants died in 1788, it is admitted, that the adverse possession cannot bar the recovery;
as possession was not taken by any of the defendants until
after that period.
The entries in the register of burials, and in the family
Bible, are admissible evidence in a case like the present; and
if there were no.other proof of the death of Charles Willing,
the ancestor of the complainants, they might be consideredas
showing his death in 1788. But the deposition of Jackson,
who was acquainted with Charles Willing, shows that he died
in 1798; and he is identified as the ancestor by the names of
his children, stated by the witness. This statement is not
contradictory to the entry in the register, or in the family Bible. There must have been two persons named Charles
Willing, who died at the periods stated; but the latter was the
person in whose name the title set up by the complainants originated.
To bring the defence within the statute of limitations, it
must appear that possession of the land was taken by the defendants in the life time of Charles Willing. Had the land
descended to his heirs before a cause of action existed, by an
adverse possession; the statute could not operate against them,
until they came within the state. But it appears in this ctise
that the adverse possession commenced prior to the decease of
Willing; and consequently his heirs were limited to ten years,
from that time, for the operation of their claim. This was not
done.
By the testimony, an adverse possession by the defendants
and those under whom they claim, except Marshall, for more
than twenty years before the commencement of this suit, is
clearly shown. John Fowler, one of the defendants, though
served with process, did not answer the bill; and no decree
pro confesso, was taken against him, in the circuit court.
Humphrey Marshall, another defendant, who answered the'
bill, sets up adverse possession specifically in himself. It appears from his answer, that he Conveyed, long before the
commencement of the suit, to his co-defendants. V" con-

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Lewis et al. vs. Marshall et al.]

veyed to them by deeds in fee simple, "Iwith covenants to
refund the purchase money, in case of loss by any adverse
claims;" which gives to him, as he alleges in his answer, a
right to defend in this suit.
That a statute of limitations may be set up in defence in
equity, as well as at law, is a principle well settled. It is not
controverted by the counsel for the complainants. But he
insists that the statute did not operate against the complainant's title, as to the defendants in possession, until they acquired Barbour's title.
The defendants entered under titles adverse to that claimed
by the complainants. It is not in this view a question whether
these titles were paramount to the complainants', in equity or
at law. They were adverse, and within the provisions of the
statute, and if the limitation had run before the commencement of this suit, the right of ehtry was tolled, and- no relief
can be given in -hancery.Whatever may have been the state of the title, as it regards
the defendants, it is difficult to conceive how the complainants
could have a right which they were unable to enforce. If the
elder patent vested in Barbour the legal title, and-might have
been set up by the defendants, before they claimed under it, to
defeat an action of ejectment brought by the complainants;
they might have sought relief in a court of chancery. Their
entry was made prior to the emanation of Barbour's grant;
consequently, they had the right tp contest the validity of hi
entry.
The limitation act of 1809, which requires suit to be
brought within seven years after an adverse possession commences, under a connected title in, law or equity from the
commonwealth, would protect the possession of the defendants.
The-facts cf the case bring them within the provisions of this
act; but it has not been set up in the answers, nor relied on
in the argument.
Statutes of limitations have been emphatically and justly
denominated statutes of repose. The bestinterests of society
require that causes of action should not be deferred an unreasonable time. This remark is peculiarly applicable to land
titles. Nothing so much retards the growth and prosperity of
a country as insecurity of titles to real: estate. Labour is par-

SUPREME COURT.
[Lewis et al. vs.Marshall et al.]

alysptl where the enjoyment .of its fruits is uncertain; and litigtion without limit produces ruinous consequences to individuals. The legislature of Kentucky have, therefore, wisely
provided, that unless suits for the recovery of land shall be
brought within a limpited period, they shall be barred by an
adverse possession.
The court are of the opinion that the defendants, except
Marshal], having brought themselves within the provisions of
the act of 1796, in showing an adverse possession of more
than twenty years, before the commencement of this suit,
have sustained their defence, and consequently, that the bill
of the complainants, as to them, must be dismissed.
As the extent of-the interference of Marshall's claim, under
the patents of Barbour, and Halbertand others, with Willing's
entry, does not appear from the proof in the cause, and as such
proof is essential, to enable the court to determine on the respective rights of the parties; the cause may be certified to the
court .below, as to him, for further proceedings.
Fowler, one of the defendants, has not answered the bill:
the merits of his claim 6annot now be investigated. The cause,
as to him, also, may be sent down for further proceedings.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and was argixed by counsel: on consideration whereof; it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, as to all the respondents and appellees, except Humphrey Marshall and Fowler; and as to him
the said Marihall, it is adjudged and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said circuit court be and the same is
hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby
remanded to the said circuit court, for-further proceedings to
be had therein, as to the said Humphrey Marshall, according
to law and justice, and in conformity to the opinion and decree of this court; and it is further adjudged and decreed by
this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded
to the said circuit court for further proceedings to be had
therein, as to the said defendant Fowler, who did not answer
the bill, and against whom there was no decree.

