JANUARY TERM 1831.

THE BANE OF THE UNTTED STATES, PLAINTIFF IN Ehi on
vs. GEORGE B. MARTIN, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
The district court of the United States for the state of Alabama has not jurisdiction of suits, instituted by the bank of the United States. This jurisdiction is
not given in the act of.congress establishing that court, nor is it conferred by
the act incorporating the bank of the United States.

-

ERROR to the district court of the United States for the
district of Alabama.
Mr Webster stated, that on inspecting the record of the proceedings in the court below, he was satisfied the district court
of Alabama 'had not jurisdiction of suits instituted by the bank
of the United States. It has already been decided that the
courts of the United"States have jurisdiction in suits brought
by the bank, only by virtue of the special provision in the
charter; and the right of the bank to sue in the district court
of Alabama is not given by the act incorporating the bank.
He referred to the tenth section of the act of congress of September 1789: and to the act of the 21st of April 1820, constituting the courts of Louisiana. The Bank of the United Statesvs. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61. 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 1859.
Mr Chief Justice MAR s rAL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to p judgment rendered in the court
of the- United States for the district of Alabama, dismissing a
suit brought by the Bank of the United 'States in that court, for
want of jurisdiction. Consequently, the jurisdiction of that
court presents-the only question to be considered.
The act, which establishes a district court in the state of Alabama, declares that the judge thereof c"shall in all things have
and exercise the same jurisdiction and powers which were by
law given to the judge of the Kentucky district, finder an act
entitled, c c-An act to establish the judicial courts of the United
States,'" and an act entitled, "An act in addition to the act entitled ' An act to establish the judicial courts of the United
States,"' approved the second of March 1793.
The 10th section of the judiciary act provides, "that the

SUPREME COURT.
[The Bank of the United States vs. Martin.]

district court in Kentucky shaIl, besides the jurisdiction aforesaid, have jurisdiction of all other causes, except appeals and
writs of error hereinafter made cognizable in a circuit court,
and shall proceed therein in the same manner as a circuit court."
The 1 th section of the same act describes the jurisdiction of
the circuit court. A bank of the United States did not then
exist; and it was determined by this court in the case of the
Bank of the United States vs. Deveaux, "that the courts of the
United States could not take jurisdiction of actions brought by
the bank, unless the declaration contained averments which enabled the court to look behind the corporate character of the
plaintiff." The judicial act, not having given the circuit courts
jurisdiction over causes instituted by the bank of the United
States, cannot be construed to have given that jurisdiction to
the-district court of Kentucky. Of course, it has not been conferred on the district court of Alabd.ma, by the act establishing
that court. Neitler has it been conferred by the act establishing the bank of the United States.
The judgment is affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record. from the district court of the United States for the southern
district of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that there was no
error in the judgment of the said district court in dismissing
this cause for want of jurisdiction. Whereupon, it is considered, ordered, and adjudged by this court, tnat the judgment
,of the said district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, without costs.

