SUPREME COURT.

LuxE TIERNAN, DAVID WILLIAMSOR, JUN. AND CHARLES
TIETRNAN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR v. JAMES JACK.SON, DEPENDANT IN ERROR.
Whatever may be the inaccuracy of expression, or the inaptness of the words
used in an instrument in' a legal view, if the intention to pass the legal title
to property can be clearly discovered, the court will give effcct to it, and construe the words accordingly.
A shipment oftobacco was made at New Orleans by the agent of the owner, consigned to a house in Baltimore, the shipment being fur the account and risk
of the owner, iebeing atthe tiue indebted to the consignees for a balance of
account. The owner of the shipment dew two bills ot the coneignees, and
m the same day made an assignment on the back of a duplicate invoice of tho
tobacco in the following words: '"1 assign to James Jackson (tei drawee of
the bills) so much of the proceeds of the tob.acco alluded to inthe within invoice, as will amount to two thousand four hundred dollars (the amount of
the two bills), to 1. and L. six hundred dollars, &c., and Messrs Tieman
and Sons (the consignees), -willhold the net proceeds of the within invoice subject to the order of the persons above named as directed above." The bills were
dishonoured. This assignment, by its t.ms, was not intended to pass the legal
title in the tobacco, or its proceeds to the parties; but to create an equitable
title or interest only in the proceeds of the sale, for the benefit of the assignees; and they cannot maintain an action against the consignees in their own
name for the same. The receipt of the consignment by the consignees did
not create a contract, express or implied, on the part of the consignees with the
assignees, to hold the proceeds for their use, so as to authorize them to sue
for the same.
The general principle of law is,that choses in action are not at law assignable.
But if assigned, and the debtor promise to pay the debt to the assignee, the
latter may maintain an action against the debtor as money received to his use.
In Mandeville vs. WeLh, 5 Wheat. 277, 286, it was said by this court: that in
cases where an order is drawn for the whole of a particular fund, it amounts to
an equitable assignment of that fund; and after notice to the drawer it binds
that fund in his hands. *But where the order is drawn either on a general
or a particular fund, for a part only, it does not amount to an assignment of
that part, or give a lien as against the drawee; dless he consents to the appropriation by an acceptance oi the draft; or an obligation to accept mpay be
fairly implied from the custom of trade, or the course of btnsinass between the
parties, as a part of their contract. The court were there speaking in a case
where the suit was not brought by the assignee, but in the name of the original assignor for his use, against the debtor; and it was therefore unnecessary
to considerwhether the remody, if any, for the abeignee, was atlaw or in equity.
Until the parties receiving a consignment-or a remittance, under such circumstances as those in this case, had done some act recognizing the appropria-.
tion of it to the particular purposes specified, and the persons claiming had

.JANUARY TERM 1631.
[Tiernan et al.vs. Jackson.]
signified their acceptance of it,'so as to create a privity between them, the
property and its proceeds remained at the risk, and on the account of the remitter or owner.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Maryland.
James Jackson, the defendant in error, on the 30th of April
1824, instituted, in the circuit court, an action of assumpsit
against the plaintiffs in error, Luke Tiernan and Sons, Merchints
Baltimore.
IThe of
declaration
was for money.had and received; the defendants pleaded non assumpsit, and issue being joined, the cause
was tried in December 1828, and a verdict and judgment rendered for the plaintiff, for the whole amount of his claim,
under instructions given to the jury by the court, to which
instructions the defendants excepted, and thereupon prosecuted'this writ of error.
The circumstances of the case were the following:
Luke Tiernan and Sons were it 1819 the creditors of
Thomas H. Fletcher, a merchant of Nashville, in the state of
Tennessee, for a balance of account current, admitted to amoutt
to four thousand nine hundred and six dollars and eighty-three
cents. Mr Fletcher was at the same time largely indebted
to Luke Tiernan and Co. of which firm Luke Tiernan was
th6 surviving partner, and other merchants in Baltimore,
Philadelphia, and elsewhere.
In consequence of the failure of a house in Nashville, and
of other heavy losses in business, Mr Fletcher became unable
to meet his engagements; and on the 10th of April 181b,
through Messrs Tieraan and Sons, he made a statement
of his affairs to his creditors in Baltimore; and proposed an
arrangement for the satisfaction of their claims in these terms:
"I hold a very large amounL of good paper, of the most
unquestionable kind, the greater part of it now due. The
drawer.%are merchants to whom I have sald goods. It is not
payable at bank, I wish to give you paper of this description for your claims against me. This arrangement will at
once free me from my present difficulties, and at the same
time enable you to get your money much sooner-than I could
possibly pay you. This plan. will also save me from being

SUPREME COURT.
[Tiernan et al. vs. Jackson.]

harassed, and also put my creditors to much less trouble.
In the above proposition I ask no abatement in amount. I
offer unquestionable paper for my own. The only injury
you sustain by the arrangement is, that you will not get your
money quite as soon as was expected originally. I will also
indorse the notes I transfer to you, thus making myself still
liable."
I therefore wish you to forward your claims against me to
this place, without delay; that I may pay them in the way
above pointed out. I wish you all to forward your claims to
the same person, as I can -settle much easier with one person.
than with a dozen. I propose that you all forward your
claims, by mail, immediately, to Mr Ephraim H. Foster, attorney at law, of this place. He is a man of integrity and
high standing, both as a man and as an attorney, and is withal
,a gentleman of large-fortune, free-from all embarrassment and
unconnected with trade, and bound for no person: In his
bands -your money will be safe, and your business ably attended to.
These propositions were on the 3d of May following accepted by Messrs Tiernan and Sons, and by Mr Luke Tiernan for Luke Tiernan and Co.; and on the 21st of May,
1819, Mr Fletcher paid the whole amount of their claims on
him in promissory notes, delivered to Mr Foster a's their agent,
and took the-receipts of Mr Foster for the same.
Soon after this adjustment, Mr Charles Tiernan, one of the
plaintiffs in error, arrived in Nashville; and on his arrival was
dissatisfied with it. But, as ithad been made byMr Foster in
bonformity with directions from his father; Mr: Luke Tiernan;
before -he left Nashville he expressed his approbation of it.
In the letter of Mr Fletcher to his creditors in Baltimore,
dated Nashville, April 10th, 1819, containing the proposition
for the adjustment of their claims, he informed them: "My
cottdn and tobacco at Orleans have all been sold or shippefd,
and advances had on it, and f have received the money arising from the sales and shipments; but that money I am in
honour bound to apply to*the payment of my notes at bank
here, with the view of preventing injury to my indorsero as
I cannot reconcile it to my feelings to permit i friend to suffer
who indorses my paper from motives of friendship."

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tiernan et al. vs. Jackson.]

By the evidence of Mr Fletcher it appeared that in April
1819, Jouett F. Fletcher, his agent in New Orleans, shipped
per the schooner Mary, to Luke Tiernan and Sons, ninety-five
hogsheads of tobacco for the account of T. H. Fletcher, and drew
on them against this shipment, two bills, one for two thousand
dollars, the other for two thousand six hundred dollars. These
bills were indorsed by Bernard M'Keirnan, at the instance of
Mr Thomas H. Fletcher: and fiaring that this tobacco would
be attached for his debts in Baltimore, Mr Fletcher, on the
same day he procured the indorsement, assigned the shipment
on the back of the invoice, in favour of Mr M'Keirnan for the
proceeds thereof. This assignment was not communicated to
Mr.M'Keirnan; but was filed away by Mr Fletcher,
Jouett F. Fletcher, as the agent of Thomas H. Fletcher,
drew another bill for two thousand dollars against the shipment of the tobacco per the Mary, in favour of Joseph Fowler,
on Luke Tiernan and Sons. This bill Was accepted and paid
by the Messrs Tiernan-and Sons: the two bills indorsed by
Mr M'Keirnan were not paid.
When the adjustment of the claims of Tiernan and Co.
and Tierman and Sons was made, through Mr Foster, they
were not informed of the particular shipment of tobacco by
the Mary,'or a shipment made to-them by the brig Struggle.
On being informed of the dishonour of the bllis indorsed by
Mr M'Keirnan, Mr Fletcher consulted counsel in B.ltim6re
on the effect of the issignment to M'Keirnan; and then for
the first time made the same public.
After this, Tiernan and Sons wrote to, Mr Foster and to
Mr Thomas H. Fletcher, urging that the settlement and payment in notes .should be cancelled, . with a view- to enable
them to hold the proceeds of the tobacco; and a.condifional
arrangement was entered into, subject to the rejection or acceptance of the defeundants; and the notes which Mr Foster had received were placed in the hands of R. C. Foster, there to remain until they should make known their determination in
relation to the -arrangements: this was on the 19tl of July
1819; and under date of 4th of September 1819 they accepted
of the naew arrangement, and the receipts which Mr Foster
had given t0 Mr Fletiher were returned to him, and he returned all the notes except one for two thousand dollars on

SUPREME COURT.
[Ticman et al.
vs. Jackson.)

Thomas D. Crabb, which he retained on behalf of Tiernan
and Sons, as was supposed for their ultimate security.
On the 8th of May 1819, Jouett F. Fletcher, as the agent
of Thomas H. Fletcher, shipped on board the brig Struggle,
from New Orleans for Baltimore, eighty-one hogsheads of
tobacco, aniounting, per invoice, to six thousand and sixty-five
dollars and sixty-seven cents. The invoice stated the same to
be ",Shipped by M'Neil, Fiske and Rutherford, on board the
brig Struggle, Nathan Stone, master, bound for Baltimore,
by order of Thomas H. Fletcher, through his agent Jouett F.
Fletcher, consigned to Luke Tiernan and Sons." The bill
of loading stated the shipment and consignment to bo for the
account of Thomas H. Fletcher, Esq. of Nashville.
Mr Fletcher stated in his evidence, that upon this consignment on the 21st of May 1819, he drew two bills upon the
consignees, one in favour of James Jackson, the defendant in
error, for two thousand four hundred dollars, and another bill
for six hundred dollars, in favour of Ingram and Lloyd.
On the 26th of May 1819, he made the following assignment
on tie back of a duplicate invoice, and on the same day ackfhowledged it before a notary, and delivered it to Mr Jackson.
Nashville, May 21st, 1819.
I assign to James Jackson so much of the proceeds of the
sale of the tobacco, alluded to in the within invoice, as will
amount to two thousand four hundred dollars; t o Ingram and
Llpyd, as above, six hundred dollars; and the balance, Whatever it may be, to G. G. Washington and Co.; and Messrs
L. Tiernan and Sons will hold- the nett proceeds of the
within invoice, subject to the order of the persons above
THOMAS H. FLETCHER.
named as directed above.
In reference to -his transactions with Mr Jackson, to the
-bill for two th6usand four hundred dollars in favour of Mr
Jackson, and to this assignment; Mr Fletcher also stated that in
the fall of 1818 he had sold to Mr Jackson a bill of exchange
for five thousand dollars, drawn by him on his agent in Philadelphia, which was protested for non-payment; on its return
he liquidaed it by his notes, which he paid. Mr Jackson required no security against the bill for two thousand four

JANUARY TERM. 1831.
[Tiernan et al. vs. Jackson.]

hundred dollars, as he showed him Mr Foster's receipts that he
owed Luke Tiernan and Sons nothing; and he satisfied him
he bad actually made the consignment. When he sold the
bill for two thousand four hundred dollars to Mr Jackson, he
was greatly embarrassed, but did not consider himself insolvent; because he had made large shipments of tobacco to Europe, and hoped they would turn out well. He did not know
what opinion Mr Jackson entertained of his circumstances; but
in the month of May 1819, he voluntarily indorsed. his, Mr
Fletcher's, note for ten thousand dollars, without having any
interest in the transaction.
Messrs Tiernan and Sons refused to accept or pay the bill
for two thousand four hundred dollars, and it was regularly
protested.
The tobacco per brig .Struggle arrived in.Baltimore on the
7th of. June 1819, and ,was sold by the consignees; the nett
sales amounting to four thousand th'ee hundred and thirty-five
dollars and thirty-five cents, for which sum they were in cash
on the 11th of February 1820.
Soon after the arrival of the tobacco by the brig Struggle,
the plaintiffs in'error, and Luke Tiernan, sued out a fbreign attachment in the Baltimore county court, against Thomas H.
Fletcher, and attached the tobacco in their own hands. In
these suits judgments were obtained at March term 1821, for
the debtE aue by him to Luke Tiernan and Sons, and to Luke
Tiernan and Co.
At the' trial in the circuit court the defendants, by their
counsel, prayed the court to instruct the jury,
1. That the assignment made by Thomas H. Fletcher, anted
May 21st, 1819, and acknowledged and delivered on the 26th
of May, 1819, and indorsed on the copy of the invoice, as
stated in the evidence, did not pass such a. legal title to any
part of the proceeds of the tobacco shipped by the brig Struggle, as will enable the plaintiff to support this action in his own
name.
Which instruction the court refused to givebut instructedthe
jury that such an assignment, connected with the character ox
the consignment of the cargo of the Struggle to the defendants,
was sufficient to enable the plaintiff to support this action in
his own name.
VOL. V.-S Y

SUPREME COURT.
ETiernan et al.
vs. Jackson.]

2. That the invoice, letter of advice, and bill of loading,
takeo together, do not constitute such a special appropriation
of,this cargo of the brig Struggles or of the proceeds thereof,
to the order of Thomas H. Fletcher, as will enable his assignee in this ase to maintain this action in his own name,
upon the assignment-of May 21st, 1819: which instruction the
couit refused to give.
3. That unless the jury find from the evidence, that Jouett
F. Fletcher ordered the said cargo, or the proceeds thereofi to
be paid to thu order of Thomas H. Fletcher, or in some other
manner authorized the defendants to deliver the cargo, or the
proceeds thereof to him, the said Thomas H. Fletcher; that
then the, assignment of the said Thomas H. Fletcher to the
plaintiff, dated M1ay,21st, 1819, does iot pass such an interest
to the plaintiff as will enable him to maintain thq present acin his own name.
tion
, Which
instruction the.court refused to give; as it appeared on -the face of the documents accompanying the consignment, with.the bill of loading, invoice, and letter of instructions, that the tobacco was the exclusive property of Thomas
H. -Fletcher,'and that Jouett F. Fletcher was merely the agent
of Thomas H. Fletcher.
The defendants by their counsel prayed-the court to instruct
the jury.
1. If the jury find from the evidence, that, by the terms of
the settlement between Thomas H. Fletcher and Ephraim H.
Foster, the agent of the defendants, the said Fletcher was to
continue still liabld" to the defendants for the money due to
-them from th'e,said Fletcher, that then the assignment of the
notes and the receipts mentioned by the said Fletcher in his deposition, did not extinguish the original debt due from him to
the defeadants, on account of which the said notes were assigned. Which instruction the court accordingly gave.
2. That if the jury find that at the time the ,.argo of the brig
Struggle came to the possession of the defendants, in the manner stated in the evidenced, Thomas H: Fletcher, on whose accounf the said shipment was made, upon a balance of accounts
was indebted to the defendants in a sum expeeding the value
of the whole cargo, for advances made and liabilities incurred

JANUARY TERIMl 1831.
[Tieman tt 0 . t

hdk~ori.l

by the defendants, as the factors and agents of the said Thomas
H. Fletcher, that then the said defendants had a lien upon, and
were entitlcd to retain the proceeds of the said cargo, for the
balance due 'hem as aforesaid; notwithstanding the assignment
made by the -said Fletcher to the plaintiff on the 21st May,
1819, as stated in-the evidence.
Which instruction the court refused. to give.
3. Tlhat~upon the whole evidence offered, the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover in this suit.
Which instruction the court refused to give.
The case was argued by Mr Scott and Mr Taney for the
.plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Wirt for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error it was contended,
1. That the assignment of Thomas H. Fletcher, dated May
21st, 1819, and indorsed on a copy of the invoice, did not
convey to James Jackson the property in the tobacco mentioned in the invoice, nor to any part.thereof.
2. That the tobacco being the property of the said Thomas
H. Fletcher when it came to the hands of Tiernan and Sons,
by virtue of his consignment; they had a lien on it, and a right
to retain, for the balance due from Thomas H. Fletcher.
3. But if Tiernan and Sons have not a right to ietain for
the balance of their account, still James Jackson cannot maintain this action, in his own name, forthe portion of the proceds of the tdbacco assigned to him by said Fletcher.
Mr Scott argued, that the principal question in the case arose
upon the assignment by Mr Fletcher on the 21st of May 1819,
indorsed on a copy of the invoice of the tobacco shipped to the
plaintiffs in error. If -hat assignment passed the property, the
action for money had and received would lie; if it did not, the
suit instituted ia the circuit court could not be sustained. He
conterded, that the indorsement was nothing more than a direction as to the dispositionmof the proceeds of the shipment;
the tobacco was then in transitu, and it did not take effect,
even for that purpose, until the. 26th of May 1819, when it
was acknowledged by Mr Fletcher before the notary at Nashville.
The bill of loading and the invoice plainly show .this con-.
struction to be correct. The shipment wap for the account and

SUPREME. COURT:
[Tiernan et al. vs. Jacksdn.]

risk of Thomas H. Fletcher; the property continued in him;
no sale was intended, and no delivery was made. There must
"bean intention to assign,-in order to give the instrument that
n3ny be executed the effect of a transfer. Cited, 2 Kent's
Commentaries, 387. 2 Wash. C. C. R. 294, 403. 5 Taunt.
73, 558. 1 Peters, 456, 457, 458. 1.Bos. ahd Pal. 563.
"The plaintiffs in error 'were the factors of Thomas H.
Fletcher; the sum due to them arose in the course of their
trhnsactions with him as factors; and they had a right to retain for the balance due to them out of any property coming
inito their,hands in the course of business. Cited, Comyn on
Contracts 259. 5 Com. Dig. 54. 2 Kent's Coln. 501, 502. 6
2 East, 523. 3 Bos. and Pul. 485.
Term Rep, .99,,P00.
The equity vas equally in favour'of the factors as well as
ofjX
er:ckson. "The proposition of Mr Fletcher was not that
lie Ahould be released from the debt; his liability continued;
ad, the receipt of the notes by their agent in Nashville was
jidt -n extinguishment of the debt. The net proceeds of the
tobacco were not sufficient to satisfy the claims ef Tiernan and
Sons. Cited, 3 Peterss Cond. Rep. 169, 170 (notes). .1
Wheat 208. 2 Wash. C. C. R. 294.
If there was not anassignment of the property of Fletcher
in-the t6bacco ori board the Struggle, so as to vest the same in
the defendant irt error,' absolutely, to the extent of the bill of
two thousand four hundred- dollars, he could not omantain this
action. 1 Selw. N. P. 6, 33. 1 Term Rep. 619;' 621, 623.
12 Johns. Rep. 276, 280. The actien coukl not be sustained
in the name, of Mr Jackson, even if there had been no debt
due to the plaintiffs in error; without some promise or contract
on the part.of the consignees to pay over the proceeds to.him.
'Theie is a'differeirce between the assignment of a thing, an4
an assignment of an interest in it. Cited, 1 Har. and Johns.
114. 3 Peter s'jsCond. Rep. 557. 1 Peters, 446. 11 Mass.
&2.5. 1 Johns. Rep. 139. 2 Wheat. 66.
Mr Wirt,.for the defendant in error, stated that this case
.required a particular.reference to the facts on which it depended.
Thomas H. Fletcher, a merchant at Nashville, became embarrassed in the early part of 1819; made a candid disclosure

JANUARY TERM i831.
[Tierfau et a]. vs. Jackson.]

of his situation, and submitted, through the plaintiffs in error, a
proposition to his creditors, which was accepted by Luke
Tiernan and Sons; and the whole amount of the debts due to
them was paid, according to the proposition, and a receipt given
for the same by Mr Foster, their agent
Having thus arranged with the plaintiffs for the satisfaction of
their debts; owing them nothing; he made two shipments of tobacco to them, which by the invoices were for his account, and
which they were to hold, subject to his orders. Of part of the
proceeds of one of the shipments he made an assignment to Mr
Jackson, to secure the payment of a bill drawn in his favdur on
the plaintiffs in error; and this bill was presented on the 9th of
June 1819, and on the 15th of June, notice of the assignment to
Mr Jackson was given. Thus, the rights of Mr Jackson became
fixed; and it was not in the power of the consignees of the tobacco' to change or impair them. Notwithstanding 'this position of the transaction, the plaintiffs in error refuse t6'accept the"
bill, attach the property, and proceed to obtain a dissolution
of the settlement under which their demands on Thomas H.
Fletcher had been adjusted and satisfied. On the attachments
judgments were afterwards obtained, but these judgments do
not establish a debt due by Mr Fletcher.. 1 Wash. C. C. R.
424. 5 Taunt. 558. Cro. Elizab. 598.
The agreement of Mr Tiernan to settle his claims, and the
receipt in full which was given to Fletcher, were shown to
Mr Jackson, when the property was assigned.. This was
equivalent to a letter of credit, making the plaintiffs in error
the debtors of the holder of, the assignment.
The bill drawn in favour of the defendant in error, eonnectel
With the assignment, is not to bd considered as drawn on a
general fund, and. for a part of it; in which light the bill
would be considered if' it stood alone; but it is a sale and
transfer of a portion of a specific property, ifnmixed, and
!standing in the hands of the consignees, separate and. apart.
The transfer was made of a part of this 'specific fund beloniging to Mr Fletcher, in their hands as trustees, an4l with which
the plaintiffs in error had nothing to do but to pay the amount
to his vendees. It is in-the character of a sale of part of the
proceeds in the hands of the cons4nees, who were mere factors, and on the authority of the case of Conard vs. The At-

SUPREME COURT.
[Ticruan et al. vs Jackson.]

lantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 444; it is considered that
the circuit court were right in rejecting the first prayer of the
defendants in that court.
There is another and a distinct ground on which it is held
that the. instructions of the circuit court were right; and on
which the action is sustainable.
Luke Tiernan and Sons received the consignment under a
letter of instructions which directed them to hold it subject
to the orders of the shipp6r. In accepting the cargo under
this letter, they assent to the terms and agree to conform
to them. It was a special trust which they were bound
-to execute. Had they been unwilling to assume this trust,
and to perform its conditions, they- should have refused
it. In taking the fund., therefore, under the condition, they
agree'ih dvance to pziy it over adcordirfg to the orders of the
shipper.
The case, thus established, belongs to a class of cases in
which it is held that saeh an agreement before hand will bind
as effectually as a subsequent acceptance. Cited, Neilson vs.
Blight, 1 Johns. Cases, 205. Weston'vt Baker, 12 Johns.
Rep. 276.
As to the second bill of exceptions-, which presents the
right of the plaintiffs in error as resting on the lien of factors
for their balance, it was admitted, that this-lien existed in genetal, upon-the goods of his principalfor a general balance.
But, even as to the goods of the principal,if the factor receive
them for sale, on a promise to pay the proceeds, when sold,
to a particular individual; he has no lien on such goods for the
balance of his account. 6 T. Rep. 262. The tobacco was
received under an implied agreement to dispose of it under
the orders of Mr Fletcher; and. this case is within the principle of that cited.
But the conclusiveanswer W th6 .prayer of the defendants
in the cir cuit court is, that the tobacco, When it came into the
hands of, Lukl Tiernaxi and Sons, Was, "t the property of
Fletcher. It had beegpreviously assigned; and that assignment transferred the 'title not only- against Fletcher, but
against all persons,' iii agents, factors, and even his &editors.
Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 386.
5 Taunton, 55q, -

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tiernan et al. us. Jackson.]

Mr Taney, in reply, contended, that the ease did not present an assignment or transfer of the property by Thomas H.
Fletcher: it remained in him until it was.sold: and the proceeds only were disposed of by him under the arrangement
with the drawer of the bill of exchange. Thus, -no right of
action in his own name existed in the defendant in error; and
the plaintiffs having received the property, had a right to retain
it. The equities were equal, and the possession was in the
plaintiffs. They have no security for their debt, but the property retained by them; having returned the notes received
by Mr Foster, pT.serving only the responsibility of Fletcher
for their claims.
The assignment of May 21, 1819, did not convey the legal °
title of the property to the defendant in error, so that he.
would maintain his action. It remained in Fletcher, until
the shipment was received, and then the lien of the plaintiff's
in error attached.
But the question is, whether the assignment transferred the
legal right so as to enable the assignee to .me in his own name,
and not in that of Fletcher. This is denied. The shipment
left this property subject to the control of Fletcher, and
directed the proceeds to be subject to his order; when it
was sold, it was sold as the property of Fletcher, and the
proceeds held as such; a part only was assigned to Fletcher,
and if a suit could be'maintained under the .assignment, all
the persons named in it should have united. The interests
cannot be so split up and divided, and thus each become the
subject of a separate suit.
No notice of the assignment was received by the consignees,
until some days after the property came into their hands.
The proceeds follow the property; and' if the legal title in the
property did not pass, neither did the legal title in the proceeds.
The acceptance of property under specific orders does not
wave any lien. 6 Term Rep. 262. This would enable the
principal in all cases to deprive the factor of his lien; which
would be at war with the general rule of law, and the policy
on which it is founded for the security and indemnity of factors. Cited, 2 East. 523.
The general rule is, that suit must be brought iti the name

SUPREME COURT.
[Tieran et al. vs. Jackson.]

of the assignor, unless there is some promise or assent on the
part of the factor to hold the property subject to some dpclared trust, ordefined appropriation. No such exists in this case.
Cited alsoi 2 Kent's Corn. 500. 12 Johns. Rep. 279, 281.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court:
This is a writ of error from the circuit court for the district
of Maryland, in which the defendant in error was the original
plaintiff.
The suit was an action for money had and received, brought
under the following circumstances. The defendants, Luke
Tiernan and Sons, of Baltimore, were factors of Thomas H.
Fletcher, of Nashville iu the state of Tennessee. In the course
oftheir business transactions Fletcher became indebted to them,
and to another house, in which Luke Tiernan was surviving
partner, in a sum of money exceeding nine thousand dollars.
On the 8th.of May 18] 9, Fletcher, through his agent, Jouett
F. Fletcher, shipped at New Orleans eighty-one hogsheads of
tobacco, on board of the brig Struggle, bound for Baltimore,
consigned to Tiernan and Sons. The invoice and bill of lading
Were enclosed in a letter of advice to Tiernan and Sons, by
t e Struggle. In the invoice it was stated that the shipment
was made by order of Thomas H. Fletchei, through his agent
Jouett F. Fletcher; and in the bill of loading that it was for the
account and: risk of Thomas H.. Fletcher, and consigned to
Tiernan and Sons. The letter of advice was as follows:
New Orleans, May 8, 1829.
Messrs Luke Tiernan and Sons-Gentlemen-Herewith we
hand you invoice, bill of loading, eighty-one hogsheads of tobacco, for accpunt of Thomas H. Fletcher, by order of Jouett
F. Fletcher, which you will please receive and hold subject io
the order of the latter. We are yours, &c., M'Neil, Fisk,
and Rutherford, per Jacob Knapp.
A short time before there had been a like shipment of tobacco on account of Thomas H. Fletcher, to Tiernan and Sons,
by the schooner Mary. The consignment by the Struggle
arrived on the 7th of June 1819, sometime after that by the
Mary bad been received. Previous to the arrival of either of

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tiernan et al. vs. Jackson.]

these shipments, viz. on the 10th of April 1819, Thomas H.
Fletcher, at Nashville, wrote a letter to Tiernan and Sons, enclosing another to his creditors at Baltimore, informing them
of his embarrassments, in consequence of the failure of a
house at Nashville, and offering a proposition for the liquidation of their debts. The letter, among other things, stated that
his cotton and tobacco at New Orleans had all been shipped,
and advances had on it, and that he had received the money
arising from the sales and shipments; that he held a large
amount of good paper of the most unquestionable kind, the
greater part of which was then due; that lie offered to give paper of this description for their claims against him. He then
proposed, that the creditors should appoint Mr Ephraim: H.
Foster of Nashville their agent, to negotiate the business;
and added, " in all cases such of you as hold my notes
must forwar&dthem to Mr Foster, as they must be taken up
when I give him other paper." Tiernan and Sons, on the
same day they received the letter, accepted the proposition,
and wrote a letter to that effect. In consequence of this arrangement, Thomas H. Fletcher, on the 21st of May 181"9,
paid to Mr Foster in promissory notes the claims of the two
houses of the Tiernans, and took receipts in full from Mr Foster as agent. At the time of this payment and settlement,
Tieruan and Sons did not know of the consignment by the
Struggle; but Mr Charles Tiernan arrived at Nashville shortly
afterwards, and expressed his sati sfaction at the mode o, l'ayment. At a subsequent period, in July 1819, this payment
and settlement were res.nded by the partiest and the receipts
given up. But in our view of the case, it is unnecessary to
trace these transactions further.
On the 21st of May 1819, Thomas H.'Fletcher, being in-debted to James Jackson of Nashville (the plaintiff), drew a
bill of exchange in his favour upon Tiernan. and Sons, as follows: "Nashville, May 21s4 1819. $2400. Sixty days after
sight of this my first of exchange, second unpaid, pay to the
order of James Jackson, twenty-four hundred dollars value
received. Thomas H. Fletcher. To Messrs Luke Tiernan
and Sons, Baltimore." This bill was presented and protested
for non-acceptance, on the 9th of June 1819; and was at maturity protested for non-payment. On the same-day the bill
VOL. V.-3 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Tieman et al. ye. Jackson.]

was drawn, 'Fletcher drew the following assignment on the
back of" a duplicate invoice of the shipment by the Struggle.
"Nshville, 21st of May 1819. I assign to James Jackson so
much of the proceeds of the sale of the tobacco alluded to in
the within invoice, as will amount to twenty-four hundred
dollars; to. Ingrai and Lloyd, as above, six hundred dollars;
and the balance, whatever itmay be;to G. G. Washington and
Co.: and Messrs Tiernan and Sons will hold the net proceeds
of the within invoice subject to the order of the persons above
named, as directed above. Thomas H. Fletcher." This assignment was not delivered to Mr Jackson until the 26th of
the same month; and all persons named therein were creditors
of Fletcher.
There are many other facts spread upon the record, but
these appear to us all that are material to dispose of the questions argued at the bar.
The first -question is, whether the assignment so made to
Jackson, on the 19th of May, passed the legal title in the tobacco so as to make the same, or the proceeds thereof, presently
the property of Jackson and the other persons named. This
is a question essentially depending upon the intention of the
parties to be gdthered from the terms of the assignment; for
whatever may be the inaccuracy of expression, or the inaptness
of the words used, in a legal view, if the intention to pass the
legal title can be clearly discerned, the court will give effect to
it, and construe the words accordingly. _Thus, if a man grant
the profits of his land, it is said that the land itself passes. Co.
Litt. 4. Com. Dig. Grant, E.. 5. At the time when this assignment was made, the tobacco was in transitu; and if there
had been an absolute assignment of the proceeds, so that the
tobacco was immediately put at the risk of the assignee, and
the assignor was to have no further control over the managemen.of ift, we do not mean to- say-that it would not pass the
legal title and property in it to the assignee. But can such an
intention he gathered from the words used in this instrument?
We think not. The words are, cc I assign, &c., so much of the
proceeds of the sale of the tobacco, &c., as will amount to
twenty-four hundred dollars." The parties, then, contemplate
a sale, and the assignment is to be, not of the tobacco itself
presently, but of a portion of the funds arising from the sale

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tieman ct al. vs. Jackson.]

of it at a future period. Could the assignee or assignees have
countermanded the consignment to Tiernan and Sons? Or,
putting aside the factor's claim of a lien, could they have dbmanded the property of the factors before the sale? We think
such was not the intention of the parties. The claim of Jadkson was not to an undivided portion of the property, but to a
specific account of the proceeds arising from a sale. Suppose
before sale the tobacco had been lost or destroyed, would the
loss have been his or Fletcher's? We think it would .have
been Fletcher's. The assignees were all creditors; and there
is no evidence that they took the assignmnt in satisfaction of
their debts, or otherwise than as security therefor. And the
fact, that, contemporaneously, Jackson took a bill of exchange
on Tiernan and Sons for the same amount, demonstrates that he
did not understand the assignment as extinguishing his debt,
oras operating more than as collateral security. Upon the dishonour of that bill, he had a right of -recourse against the
drawer. In this view of the transaction, Fletcher had an immediate interest in the sale. The larget the amount of the
proceeds, the further they would go tQ -extinguish his antecedent debts. It is perfectly consistent with the terms of the
instrument, that he should retain the legal title in the tobacco,
and that his factors would have a right to make sale thereof, in
the best manner they could, for his benefit; giving the assignees an equitable title in the proceeds of the sale. Our opinion'
is, that upon the terms of the assignment, it was not intended
by the parties to pass the legal title in the tobacco, or its proceeds; but to create an equitable title or interest only in the
proceeds after sale, for the benefit of the assignee's.
Assuming, then, that an equitable title only to the proceeds
of the sale, amounting to two thousand four hundred dollars,
vested by the assignment in Jackson, still if there has been any
agreement on the part of Tiernan and Sons to hold so much.
of the proceeds for the benefit of Jackson, he may maintain the
present action; for under such circumstances, upon. the receipt
of the proceeds after.the sale, so much thereof would be money hhd and received to the use of Jacksou; and it will make
no difference, under such circumstances, Whether Tiernan and
Sons have a lien for any balance of accouits or not; for quch

SUPREM.E COURT.
[Tiernan et al. vs, Jackson.]

an agreement will bind them, and amount to a waiver of their
lien pro tanto in favour of Jackson.
The question, then, is, whether there are any ingredients
in this case furnishing sufficient proofs of such an agreement.
Such an agreement may be express, or it may be implied; if the
circumstances of the case, coupled with the acts of the parties,
necessarily lead to such a conclusion. That there has been an
express agreement on the part of Tiernan and Sons is not
pretended. On the contrary, having received the shipment
on.the 7th of June 1819, they attached the property by a writ
of garnishment on the 8th of the same month, on their own
account, as the property of Fletcher; and they dishonoured
the bill drawn in favour of Jackson on the succeeding day:
nor did they after the notice of the assignment, on the 15th
of the same month, ever give any express assent to hold the
proceeds according to the terms of it.
But it has been argued that the receipt of the consignment
with the bill of loading, invoice, and letter of advice, amounted
to an implied engagement to conform to the terms of the latter,
and "to receive and hold the tobacco subject to the order of"
Jouett F. Fletcher, the agent of Thomas H. Fletcher; and that
it being the case of a mere agency, it is in contemplation of
law subject to the direct order of the latter, without the intervention of his agent; Now, assuming that a factor upon
receiving a consignment is bound, as between himself and his
principal, to conform to the orders of the latter, which cannot
well be denied in point of law, the question still recurs, whether
that implied obligation can enure to the benefit of a third person, so as to entitle the latter upon obtaining an order at a
future period, to maintain an action against the factor, as upon
an agreement in his favour. And, a fortiori, whether in case
of a dissent or refusal contemporaneous with the receipt of the
consignment, such an implied obligation can supersede the
legal effect of such dissent or refusal. If an assent is to be
implied from the duty of the factor in ordinary cases, may not
his dissent be shown by acts rebutting the presumption? In
the present case, the letter of advice contains no authority to
sell, but only to receive and hold the tobacco subject to the
order of the party. If a power to sell be implied, it must be

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Tiornan et al. vs. Jackson.]

implied from the antecedent course of business and relation of
the parties, as principal and factors. The implied obligation,
then, from the receipt of the consignment, is no more than the
terms of it express, viz: to receive and hold the tobacco subject to order; not to pay over the proceeds to order., But
waving this consideration, how stands the general proposition
in point of principle and authority?
The general principle of law is, that choses in. action are
not at law assignable. But, if assigned, and the debtor promise to pay the debt to the assignee, the latter may maintain
an action for the amount against the debtor, as money received'
to his use. - Independently of such promise there is no pretence that an action can be sustiined. Have Tiernan and
Sons, since notice of the present assignment, mide any such
promise to Jackson? No express promise is shown; and the
acts antecedently done by Tiernan and Sons. repudiate the
notion of any intentional implied promise; for those acts appropriate the property to their own claims, and to meet their
own lien.
But it is said, that if a party agrees to hold money or goods
subject to the order of the owner, it raises an implied promise
to the holder of the order, upon which he may maintain an
action at law. The case of Weston vs.Barker, 12 Johns. Rep.
276, has been relied on for this purpose. But in that case,
the party receiving the money under the assignment made an
express promise to hold the same subject, in the first place, to
the demands of certain specified creditors; and next, the balance, subject to the order of the assignor. The court held that
in such case the holder of the order subseqtently drawn had a
right to the money, as money had and received to his use; notwithstanding there was a counter claim, or set off of the
assignee accruing before the assignment The case of Walker
vs. Birch, 6 Term Rep. 258, is somewhat complicated in its
circumstances, but it turned upon similar principles. There
the agreement was express, to hold the property for a particular purpose; and that, in the opinion of the court, excluded
the right of the factor to assert a lien upon it for any demand
due to him, which was inconsistent with that purpose. Lord
Kenyon there said, the parties may, if'they please, introduce
into their contract an article to prevent the application of a

SUPREME COURT.
[Tiernan et al. vs. Jackson.]

general rule of law to it. In the note given by the factors in
that case, they acknowledged that-they had received the goods
for sale, and promised to pay the proceeds of them, when sold,
to J. F. or his order. J. F. was the agent of the owners; and
they having become bankrupt; their assignees brought an action, not for the proceeds (for the goods were not sold), but
for the goods, and they recovered upon the footing of th4
original special ,contract. That case also differs from" the present in one important fact, and that is, that the suit was brought
by the assignees of the bankrupt owners, and not by a holder
of the order. In the case of 'Mandeville vs. Welch, 5 Wheat.
Rep. 277, ! 86, it was said by this court, that in cases where
an brder is drawn for the whole of a particular fund, it amounts
to an equitable assignment of that fund, and after notice to the
drawee it binds the fund in his hands. But where the order
is drawn either on a general or a particular fund, for a part
only, it does not amount to an assignment of that part, or give
a lien as against th drawee, uinless he consent to the appropriation by an acceptance of the draft, or an obligation to accept may be fairly implied from the custom, of trade in the
course of business between the parties as a part of their contract. The court were there speaking in a case where the suit
was not brought by the assignee, but in the name of the original assignor, for his use, against the debtor; and it was therefore unnecessary to consider whether the remedy, if any, for
the assignee was at law, or in equity.
The case of Farmer vs. Russell, 1 Bos. and Pull. 295, so far
as the point before us is concerned, asserts the principle that
if A. receives money from B. to pay to C. it is money had and
,received for the use of.the latter. In such a case it is immaterial whether the promise to pay over be express or implied; for
by the very act of receipt, the party holds it, not for A. but
in'tfust for C. §ee also Schermerhorn vs. Vanderheyden, 1
Sohns. Rep. 139. Onion vs. Paul, 1 Harris and Johns. 114.
Pigott vs. Thompson, 3 Bos. and Pull. 146, 149, note.
The case of Neilson vs. Blight, 1 Johns. Cases, 295, resolved itself substantially into this: that the defendant, who
was a sub-agent, had received the goods in question upon condition of paying to the plAintiff-out of the first proceeds, a
certain sum due to him, according to a Written contract with

JANUARY TERM' 1831.
ETiemazr et al. vs. Jackson.]

the agent, of which he had. notice, and to which in a letter
addressed to the plaintiff he admitted his obligation to comply; and the" court held the .plaintiff entitled to recover the
amount in an action for money had and received. This was
the case then, either of an express promise, by the-sub-agent,
or at least of an implied promise, irresistibly established, and
creating a privity between the parties in a manner clear and
unequivocal.
All these cases'are distinguishable from the present. They
are either cases where there was an express promise to hold
the money subject to the order of 'the principal; or there was
an implied promise to pay it over. as it was received to the use
of a particular person. The express promise to pay to order
bound the party, and excluded any claim for a lien, and any
defence on account of, want of privity between him, and the
holder of the order. The receipt of the money for the use of
a particular persbn, necessarily imported a promise or obligation to hold it in privity-for such person.
In the case at bar,. no such irresistible presumptions exist.
There was, as we have seen, no express promise to hold the
proceeds of the sale subject to order; and no implied promis6
positively and necessarily flowed from, the circumstaicea: on
the contrary, the acts of Tiernan and Sons, contemporaneous
with the receipt.f the consignment, negatived it; andthe actual
assignment was subsequent to those acts.
The question is certainly a nice one; and confessedly
new in the circumstances of its betual presentation. On this
account we were desirous of making-some farther reseatches
into the authorities; and we have found two cases not citedat the
bar, which seem to us fully in point. The first is Williams
vs, Everett, 14 East, 582. There K. abroad renitted
certain bills to his bankers in London, directing them to pay
certain sums out of the proceeds, when paid, to certain specified
creditors. The bankers rpceived the bills, and before they
were paid, the plaintiff (one of the specified creditors) called
on the bankers, and stated that he had received a letter from
K. directing three hundred pounds to be paid to him out of the
bills sent, and proposing to the bankers to indemnify them,
if they would deliver to him one of the bills to the amount;
bat the bankers refused so to do, or to act upon the letter;

SUPREME COURT.
[Tiernn at al. vs. Jackson.]

although they admiLted the receipt of it, and that the plaintiff
was the person to whom the sum of three hundred pounds
was directed to be appropriated. The bankers afterwards received the money on the bills, and the plaintiff brought an action for money had and received, to recover the amount of the
money so appropriated to him. The court held that the action was not maintainable. Lord Ellenborough, in delivering
the opinion of the court, said: "the question which has been
argued before us is, whether the defendants by receiving this
bill did not accede to the purposes for which it was professedly remitted to them by K., and bind themselves so to
apply it; and whether, therefore, the amount of such bill paid
to them when due did not instantly become, by operation of
law, money had and received to the use of the several persons
mentioned in K.'s letter as the creditors, in satisfaction of
whose bills it was to be applied; and of course as to three hundred pounds of it, money had and received to the use of the
plaintiff. It will be observed, that there is no assent on the
part of tne defendants to hold this money for the purposes
mentioned in the letter; but, on the contrary, an expressrefusal of the creditor so to do. If, in order to constitute a privity
between .the plaintiffs and defendants, as to the subject of this
demand, an assent express or implied be necessary; the assent
can in this case be only an implied one, and that too implied
against the express dissent of the pa ties to be charged. Bythe
act of receivingthe bill, the defendants agree to hold it until paid;
and its contents when paid to the use of the remitter. It is
entire to the remitter to give, and countermand, his own directions respecting the bill as often as he pleases; and the persons to whom the bill is remitted may still hold the bill
till received, and its amount, when received, for the use of the
remitter himself; until by some engagement entered into between themselves with the person, who is the object of the
remittance, they- have precluded themselves from so doing; and have appropriated the remittance to the use of
such person. After such a circumstance, they cannot retract
the consent they may have once given; but are bound to hold
it for the use of the appointee. If it be money had and received for the use of the plaintiff, under the orders which accompanied the remittance; it occurs as fit to be asked, when

JANUARY TERM 1831.
Iiiernan et al. vs. Jackson.]

did it become so? It could not be so before the money was
received on the bill becoming due. And at that instant, suppose the defendants had been robbed of the cash or notes, in
which the bill in question had been paid, or they had been
burnt or lost by accident; who would have borne the loss thus
occasioned? Surely the remitter K. and not the plaintiff and
his other creditors, in whose favour he had directed the application of the money according to their several proportions
to be made. This appears to us to decide the question."
This language has been quoted at large from its direct appli-ation, to all the circumstances of the case at bar. Here,
Tiernan and Sons, before the sale and receipt of the proceeds
of the tobacco, refused to hold the same for the use of Ja.ckson;
and how then could the money, when afterwards received, be
money had and received to his use. If this case be law, it is
in all its governing principles like the present. The case of
Grant vs. Austin, 3 Price's Rep. 58, is still later; and recognises in the fullest manner the decision in 14 East, 582. That
was the case of a remittance to bankers, wilh a request that
they would pay certain amounts to persons specified in the
letter. No dissent on the part of the bankers was shown.
]1ut the court held, that in order to constitute an appropriation
of the money, or any portion of it in favour of the persons
specified, some assent on the part of the bankers must be
shown; and that the circumstances of the case did not establish it. The remitter was at the time largely indebted to the
bankers; ahd the account between the parties was so in after
broken up.
It seems to us that these authorities are founded in good
sense and convenience: until the parties, receiving the consignment or remittance, had done some act recognising the
pppropriation of it to the particular purposes specified, and
the persons claiming had signified their acceptance of it, so
as to create a priority between them; the property and proceeds remained at the risk and on the account of the remitter,
or owner.
In this view of the case, it is wholly immaterial to decide
whether Tiernan and Sons had a lien on the proceeds, or not,
for the balance due them; or whether the negotiations, stated
in the record, created a disability on their part to assert it.
VOL. V.-4 A

602

SUPREME CQURT.

LTIeman et a].
vs. Jackson.]
For, even supposing that they have no available lien, that is a
matter whidh cannot be litigated in a suit at law, whdre the
only question is, whether the plaintiff has.a good right to
maintain'his action; whatever might be the case in a suit in
equity, brought by the plaintiff to enforce his equitable claims
under his assignment.
The instructions given by the court decided that the assignment made to the plaintiff did, in effect, pass the legal property
in the proceeds to the plaintiff, so as to entitle him to maintain the present action; of, 'that at all events, it constituted
such a special. appropriation of -them, as would enable the
plaintill as assignee, to maintain it. We are of opinion, that
the court erred upon both grounds; and that therefore the
judgment ought to be reversed, and the cause be remanded to
the circuit court, with directions to award a venire facias de
novo.
In the mandate, the errors in the bill of exceptions will be
specially pointed out; but as the principles involved in them
are resolved into the points before stated, they need not here
be particularly commented on.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the-record from the circuit court of the United States, for the district of Maryland, and was argued by counsel; on consideration Whereof, it is considered by the court here, that there was
eror in the circuit court in refusing to instruct the jury upon
the prayer of the defendant's counsel, that the assignment made
by Thomas H. Fletcher, dated the 21st May 1819, and acknowledged and delivered on the 26th May 1819, and indorsed on the copy of the invoice, as stated in the evidence,
did not pass such a legal title to any part of the proceeds of
the tobacco shipped by the brig Struggle, as will enable the
plaintiff to support this action in his own name; and in instructing the jury that such an assignment, connected with
the character'of the consignment of the cargo of the Struggle
to the defendants, was sufficient to enable the plaintiff to suppqrt this action in his own name. And there was error also
in the circuit court, inrefusing to instructthe jury, that the invoice, letter of advice, and bill of loading, taken together do,

JANUARY TERM 1831.

603

Tieman et al. vs. Jackson.]
not constitute such a' special appropriation of the cargo of the
brig Struggle, or of the proceeds thereof, to the order of Thomas I. Fletcher, as will enable his assignee in this case to
maintain this action in his own name, upon the assignment of
May 21st, 1819. Ii is therefore considered by the court here,"
that for the errors aforesaid, the judgment of the circuit court
be, and the same is hereby reversed; and that the cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the circuit court, with directions to award a venire facial de novo.

