SUPREME COURT.

MART4. WILSON

PAGE, RELICT

AND

ADMINISTRATRIX

OF

MANN PAGE, DECEASED, MANN ALEXANDER PAGE AND
JANE MARIA PAGE, INFANT CHILDREN OF TUE SAID MANN
PAGE, BY THE SAID MARIA WILSON PAGE, THEIR MOTHER
AND NEXT FRIEND,

COMPLAINANTS, VS. JOHN LLOYD, Ex-

ECUTOR OF OSGOOD ILANBURY, WHO WAS SURVIVING PART-

NZR OF CAPEL AND OSGOOD HANBURY, ROnERT PATTON,
ADMINISTRATOR

WITH-,THE WILL

PAGE, DECEASEU,. JOHN

T.

ANNEXED

OF

MANN

PAGE, LEWIS BIURWELL, AD-

mINISTRATOR OF ROBE.RT C. PAGE AND JOHN MINOR, DEPENDANTS.
Pag was indebted, at the time ofhis decease, to Patton, three thousand pounds
and upwards, which was covered by a deed of trust on Mansfield, one of Page's
estates. The executors of Page refusing to act, Patton, in 1803, took"out
administration with the will annexed, and gave securities fcr the performance
of his duties. Patton made sales of the personal estate for cash and on a
credit of twelve months, and received various sums of money from the same;
he made disbursements In payment of debts and expenses for the support and
He kept
education of the children pf Page, and in advance to the legatees
his administration accounts in a book provided for the purpose, entering his receipts and disbursements for the estate, but ,sot bringing his own debt and
interest into the accoint. In 1810 he put the items of his account into the
hands of counsel, and rcqu'estcd him to introduce the deed of trust "as lie might
think proper;" ard an accQout is administrator was made out, in which the principsiand inteicst of Pttori deb, was entered as !he first item. Afterwards,
in the same year, by order of conut, the real esta'e was sold, and Patton received
the proceeds of the same. Held, thaf the sum due under the deed of trust to
PRtton should be charged on the funds arising from the sale of the real estate:
and that having omitted to retain from the proceeds of the personal estate the
sum due to him by Page, Patton could not afterwards charge the same against
the legal ashets, being the fund produced by the personal estate.
The executor or administrator cannot discharge his own debt in preference to
others of superior dignity; though he may give the preference to his own over
others of equal degree. In some of the states this rule would not apply, as
there is no difference made in the payment of debts between a bond and simple
contract.
If the creditor appoint the debtor his executor, in some eases, it operates as release. This, however, is not the case, as against credifor: the release is good
against devisees when the debt due has not been specifically devised.

THIS case dame before the. cir'cdit court from the eastern
'district of Virginia, upon certain questions certified from that

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Page vs. Patton et al.]

court, upon which the judges of the circuit court were divided: which, with the facts, are fully stated in the opinion of
the court.
The case. was argued by Mr Key and Mr Wirt, for the complainants: Mr Patton read a written argument prepaied by
Mr Johnston.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause is certified from the eastern district of the circuit court in Virginia, the judges of that court being divided
in opinion.
The legal question arose out of the following facts, which
are substantially stated by the defendant's counsel. Mann
Page the second, having made his will, died in 1803, leaving
a large estate, real and personal, the whole being charged with
the payment of his debts.
The words in the will are, "I do hereby subject all my estate, both real and personal, to the payment of my debts, and
full power is given to my executois to sell and convey all or any
part thereof, which in their discretion they shall deem it most
expedient to dispose of for that purpose."
T6 his wife he gave a life estate in a part of his farm called
Mansfield; and the residue of it he bequeathed, in fee simple,
to his two sons Robert and Mann.
le devised three several parcels of real estate, and, with
the exception of his plate, all his personal property, to his executors, to be "by them applied, in the first place, to the payment of his debts, and the balance, if any, to be divided
among his three sons." His daughters were provided for in
the will, and the support and education of his children were
charged upon his whole estate.
The testator, at his death, owed to Robert Patton three
thousand five hundred and fifty-seven pounds twelvp shillings
and nine pence, which debt was secured by a deed of trust, on
the Mansfield estate, dated the 12th of July 1799, bearing interest from the date. He also owed other debts to a large
amount, which bound his real estate.
As the executors appointed by the will refused to act, Patton took out letters of administration, with the will annexed,
VoL. V.-2 0

SUPREME COURT.
(Page vs. Patton et al.]

in October 1803, and gave sureties for the performance of his
duties.
In 1804 he made sales of the personal property on a credit
of twelve months; wyith the exception of certain sumls which
were required to he paid down. The devisees of the real
estate took possession of it. That part which ivas devised to
the executors seems not to have been in a condition to be sold.
Up to the year 1810, the administrator received, at different
times, various sums of money from the personal assets, and
made -disbursements in payment of debts and expenses, for the
support and education of the family, and in advance to legatees.
During this period he kept his administration account in a
book provided for that purpose, in which his receipts and dip.bursements were entered; but the debt. due to him, from the
estate, or the interest on it, was not brought into the account.
In 1810 he furnished to his counsel the items of his account,
and requested him to put it into proper form, and to introduce
the deed of trust, "as he might think proper."
A statement of the account was made, under the direction.
of the counsel, in which the first item of the debit Was the
principal and interest of the above debt. This account balanc.ed annually makes the administrator creditor, at the cnd
of 1803, the sum of five thousand seven hundredand forty-six
pounds twelve shillings and seven pence; at the close of 1810,
of the sum of two thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
poundstwelve shillings and eleven pence; and the lowest annualbalance exhibited in his favour was, at the end of 1807, two
thousand and ninety-six pounds and six pence half-penny. In
the 'account he did not .credit the estate with the amount of
sales, but with the amount of collections only.
Creditors Lloyd, &c. who had liens on the real estate,
brought suits against the administrat6r and devisees; a sale of
the Mansfield estate was ordered, and a receiver appointed.
In this state of things, in June 1810, the plaintiffs, who are
the administratrix, widow' and children of Mann Page, the
devisor, called Mann Page the second, brought 'this suit
against Robert Patton, administrator, and other representatives
of Mann Page the second, to have a settlement of the administration account, and a distribution of the surplus. In their
bill they allege that the administrator had-received the personal

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Page vs. Patton"et a].]

assets of the testator, and mixed them with his, own: and
among other things complain of his attemliting to pay himself
the annual interest upon his debt, after omitting it in the account which he had kept of the administratiop.
The administrator answered in March 1811, exhibiting with
his answer tAe account made out under the direction of his
counsel, and which included the deed of trust.
lie admits that he sold "the personal property, and proceeded to pay the debts due from the estate,.which he may
not have paid, according to their dignity; as he *as advised
the whole real estate,. which was more than sufficient to pay
the debts, was chargeable with them."
On the 7th June 1811, in the case of Lloyd, &c. vs. Patton' etal. there was a consent decree, directing "the commissioner of sales, out of the first instalment, which" would fall
due on the 1st of August, to pay costs and charges, and distribute the balance among Robert Patton and others, in the
order of priority of their liens; limiting the payment to Patton, whose balance is unsettled, to any sum that the commis-,
sioner and William C. Williams might agree on; and taking
from him a receipt, submitting himself to any order the court
may in future make, for refunding any part of the same."
In the same cause, on- the 1st June 1812, the former receiver
being dead, the court made an order apppinting Patton the
receiver of the court, to collect the money remaining unpaid
arising from the sale of the estate, called Mansfield, directing
the purchasers to pay to him the purchase money as it -fell
due, and directing him to apply the money so received, in the
payment of his testator's debts, according to their dignity.
Afterwards, in the same year, Patton made a report to the
court showing that of the second instalment of the purchase
M~oney, he had received several sums, amounting together to
sixteen thousand' nine h'adred and fifty dollars and eighty
cents. That prior to his appointment as. receiver, he: had received from the former receiver, the sum of two thousand
three hundred and thirty-three dollars and thirty-three cents,
on account of the balance reported due to him, on his accounts
as administrator; and "which balance arose princially from
a deed of trust giv6n to him by Mann Page in his life time,
on his Mansfield estate, to secure a debt .then due, and whiet

SUPREME COURT.
[Page vs. Patton et al.]

left a balance due the administrator of dollars, which
he retained out of the moneys received by him as above
Itated." He also stated,,that there were several debts due
from the sales of the personal estate, which were in a train of
collection." There having been reports made of the administration accounts, exceptions were taken; the first and fifteenth
*of which it may be proper to notice.
In the first is stated the ground, on. which the plaintiffs insist that the principal and, interest 9f the debt secured by the
deed of trust ought not to be Jintrodued into the 'accoupt, as
was done by Patton, under direction of his counsel in 1810,
but ought to be excluded from the account, because it had been
excluded in the administration account kept by Patton in his
book.
The fifteenth contains an objection to the mannaer in which
interest is charged, and alleges in support of that objection, that
the administrator received and mixed the money of the estate
with his own. The account, with the exceptions, was recommitted in June 1813, and commissioner Nicholsen made a report in the year 1815, crediting ihe interest on th'e debt due,
by the deed of trust, reporting the principal still due, and
Patton indgbted as administrator three hundred and seventyfive pounds thirteen shillings and three pence.
In November 1815, an order was made for directing payments by the receiver, and further accounts. A report was
made in pursuance of this order, stating Patton to be creditor
as administrator to the amount of fifty-seven pounds twelve
shillings and five pence.
In 1820 another order was made in both causes, directing a further payment by the receiver, and further accounts to be taken.
Commissioner Barton, in September 1825, made a report in"
obedience to this order, in which he states that the defendant
Patton contends that he has now the right to debit his teqtator's estate, in the account of his administration, with the
amount of his deed of trust on the Mansfield property.
The plaintiffs object to this charge, and insist, that "although
the right to charge the personal assets with this debt once existed, it has been forfeited; not only from the neglect to exercise it, but by his election to charge it on the funds derived
from the sale of the identical property, upon which there was
a lien to secure it."

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Page vs. Patton et al.]

The commissioner,, not undertaking to decide the question
thus raised, presented two statements to the court.
In the first he placed the principal of the dded of trust, together with the interest from December 1814, to the credit
of the receiver. In the second the same sum was carried as a
credit to the administrator.
Upon the argument of this question, the judges of the circuit
court being divided in opinion, it was adjourned to this court
for their decision.
Shall the credit be given to the administrator or receivdr.
The counsel for the complainants insist, that as a specific
lien was given on the Mansfield estate, by the deed of trust,
that the proceeds of the sale ofthat estate were more properly
applicable to the payment of the debt than the legal assets.
In answer to this it may be siid, that although the testator
charged his real as well as personal estate with the payment
of bis"debts, yet, it was the daty of the administrator, first to
apply the legal assets to this purpose. The fact, that the debt
in controversy was secured by a lien, does in no respect alter
the principle. It seems to have been the design of the testator to secure to his devisees the Mansfielcl estate, at least until
his other property had been exhausted in the payment of debts.
The legal assets, under the Virginia statute, are required to
be first applied in the payment of debts, according to their different degrees. This is in conformity to the principle of the
common law2 and applies as well to debts secured by mortgage
as to others.
The facts in the case, it is contended, conclusively show
that the deed of trust was not paid by Patton out of the ?administration fund, but out of moneys received from a sale of
the real estate.
The manner in which his administration account was kept;
the interest on the deed of trust, which was charged to this account by the commissioner, under the direction of Patton; the
decree of 1811, which directed the receiver to make a payment
to him and others, according to the dignity of their claims; the
acknowledgment under his own band, in his report as receiver,
in 1812, of having received from the fbrmer receiver' between
two and three thousand dollars, and that lie retained the re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Page vs. Patton et al.]

maining balance due him, out of moneys then in his hands as
receiver, 'which balance arose principally from the deed of
-trust: all prove that the deed of trust was principally, if not
entirely, paid out of the funds in the hands of the receiver.
'It is insisted that the facts also show a determination byPatton to give a preference, in payments, to other debts and
to look to a sale of the Mansfield estate for the satisfaction of
his deed of trust. That having made his election, or application of the funds in his hands as administrator, it is now too
late, as it was in 1810, to change his purpose. That a change
might be productive of great embarrassment and consequent
injury, by shifting the interests and responsibilities of parties.
Several authorities are cited under this head. 4 Cranch, 326.
7 Wheaton, 13. 6 Cranch, 28. 9 Wheaton, 730. 1 Washington, 128.
. In a case where the right of applying payments existed and
was exercised by either a debtor or creditor, and notice given,
no change can be -j iade in the credit, except by the consent
of both parties.
Qn the part of the defendant it is contended,-that it being
the duty of the administrator first to apply the legal assets in
the payment of debts, he cannot by refusing to do so, throw
the burthei of payhient on the real estate. That the consent
of the devisees, of which there is no evidence in the presenft
ease, cannot authorize the administrator tD take any steps
which the law does not sanction, and thereby make his securities responsible.
If any agreement were made between the administratoi" and
the deviseesi that the real estate should be sold for the payment of the above debt, instead of,applying the legal assets,
it is.insisted that such a proceeding would be governed by
the contract; and, consequently, the sureties of the administrator could not be held responsible. That the fund would
be considered as left in the hands of Patton, under the new
agreement, as an individual, andnot as-administrator; and for
which he could only be responsible in his private capacity.
That for this sum, thus withdrawn from the administrator, the
administration fund must be credited.
If such an arrangement had been made with the devisees, it
might be difficult to come to 'this conclusion: How any

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Pago vs. Patton et al.J

agreement with them could affect the claims of creditors, on
the legal assets, and the eventual responsibility of the sureties
of the administrator for a failure in his duty, it is difficult to
understand.
The facts of the case show that the sale of the- Mansfield
estate was necessary. It was -sold under a decree of *a court
of chancery, obtained by-the creditors of the estate, and the
application of the proceeds was made by the court. In that
'suit the proceedings'of the administrator were fully investigated. All the items of his account were- examined, by the
court, or by a commissioner under its iuthority.
From this examination it appeared to the satisfaction of the
court, hat to-satisfy specific liens on the estate, and other debts,
its sale was indispensable; and it.was decreed to be sold.
The testator by his will not only subjected his real estate,
without reservation to the payment of his debts;. but he placed
it in the hands'of his executors to be sold at their discretion.
Patton was administrator, with the will annexed, and could
exercise all the powers of an executor.
That a sale by him-of the real estate would have been valid,
even before the personal assets were exhausted, will not, perhaps, be deniied.
But it is insisted, that the doctrine of electioji does not apply to 'this case: that as administrator, Patton had a right to
retain the amount of his own debt, out.of the personal assets.
and that it was extinguished so soon as personal assets to that
amount came into his hands: that this effect is.produced by,
operatiort of law, and requires no sanction or election by theadministrator. His right being thus fixed, it is contended that
he cannot wave it to the injury of his securitie.
This point is urged with earnestness and ability .by the defendant's counsel, and a number of authorities are referred to.
in support of it. Toller's Law of Executors, 295 ; 1 Com.
Dig., 476 ; 3 Bac. 10 ; 3 BI. Com. 18 ; 1 Salk. 299, are
cited. Blackstone lays down the doctrine of retainer; as "a
remedy by mere operation of- law, and 'grounded up6n this.
reason, that the executor cannot without an apparent absurdity commence a suit against himself; but having the Whole
in his hands, so much as is sufficient to answer his demand is
by operation of law applied to that particular purpose.

SUPREME COURT.
[Page vs. Patton et al.]

Thi's doctrine is sanctioned in all the cases referred to, and
is believed to be no where controverted. But this right of
retainer must be exercised under certain restrictions. The
executor or administratdr cannot discharge .his own debt in
preference to others of superior dignity; though he may. give
the preference to his own over others of eqtlal degree. In
some of the states, this rule would not apply, as there is no
difference made in the payment of debts between a bond and
simple contract.
In the case of Warkford vs. Warkford, cited from I Salk.
Parnell, justice, said, "there would be a great diversity where
the obligee makes the obligor executor, and where the obligor
makes the obligee executor, for in this last case the debt is rot
extinct, but only upon supposal, that the executor has assets; but
in case of failure of assets, the executor may sue the heir. " Indeed where the executor has assets, the debt is gone, but that
is because he may retain and pay himself. Not where a personal action was suspended, by the act of the party, it could
neverbe revived."
If the obligor
Holt, chief justice, in the same case sdd,
make the obligee, or the executor of the obligee, his executor,
this alone is no extinguishment, though there be the same
hand to.receive and pay; but if the executor has assets of the
obligor, it is an extinguishment, because then it is within the
rule that the person who is to receive the money is the person who ought to pay it; but if he has no assets, then he is not
the person that ought to pay, though he is the person that is
to receive it; and to that purpose is the case of 11 Hen. IV, $3,
and the case of Dorchester vs. Webb, 1 Cro. 372.
In the case reported in Hobart, page 10, the court say,
when the obligor makes the executrix'of the obligee his executrix, the action is at least suspended and then the rule is,
that a personal action once suspended is extinct; but the other
reason is the surer, that when assets were left the debt was
presently satisfied by way of retainer, and consequently no
new action can be had for that debt.
The case of Woodward vs. Lord Darcy, reported in 1 Plowden's Rep. is cited. In that case the court say, that the reason
why the action is lost for ever is, because in judgment of law
he is satisfied before, for if the executor has as much goods in

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Page vs. Patton et al.]
his hands ashis own debt amounts to, the property in these
goods is altered and vested in himself; that is, he has them as
his own proper goods, in satisfaction of the. debt, and not as
executor; so that there is i transmutation of, property by the
operation of law, without suit and execution; for inasmuch as
Windham here could not have an action against himself as executor, the operation of law is equivalent to a recovery and
execution for him; and the property is as strongly altered as
it could be by recovery and execution.
If the creditor appoint the debtor his executot, in some
cAses, it operates as a release of the debt. This,'however, is
not the case as against creditors; though the release is good
against devisees, where the debt due has notbeen specifically
devised.
On these authorities it is contended, that the debt of Patton
was extinguished as early as the year '1804,. he having received personal assets to the amount of it, at that. time; and
that the payment of these assets, in discharge of other debts,
does not prevent this legal consequence, If the debt be once
extinguished, it is urged that no act of Patton could revive it.
He could not make a contract with himself, nor could he,
by any agreement with the devisees, renew the old obligation.
It will be observed, that all the decisions referred to were
made in suits prosecuted by executors or their legal representatives, to recover debts which, as executors, they had aright
to retain.
That in ,such .cases the right of action is gone, cannot be
disputed. The executor cannot sue himself, and for this reason he is authorized to lotain the amount of his debt out of
the assets in his hands. The right of action, being once exfinguished, cannot be revived either by the executor or his
legal representatives. On.this point the authorities are decisive: and, although some difference of opinion seems to have
f een entertained as to the extinguishment of the debt, yet it
is in effect extinguished, as the legal right to enforce the payment of it is gone. On this priiciple were the adjudications
made which have been cited. The question under cohsideration does not arise on a suit prosecuted by Patton for the recovery of his debt. If it did; the application and force of the
Vol. V.-2 P

SUPREME COURT.
[Page us.-Patton et al.]

-authorities would be conclusive. In such a case his debt
'would be considered as extinguished, by the extinguishment of
th right of action.
Patton, as administrator, having received personal assets,
instead of paying his own debt pays others of equal or inferior dignity; and the question is presented, whether by doing
so, he has forfeited his claim. It is not in proof thaf at any
one time he had in his hands money enoughi from the personal estate to discharge his debt. As before remarked, he
sdld the personal property, generauy, on a credit of twelve
months.
He seems to have preferred realizing the interest, annually,
upon his own demand; knowing that it was secured by a lien
... wthe real estate. He postponed the payment of the whole,
or a part of this debt, until the realty was sold, and discharged
it out of the proceeds-of such sale.
Is there-any principle of'law which will apply this payment,
as a credit to the administration account; or that will consider
the fund to have been withdrawn from the administrator?
The law presumes his own debt to be satisfied when assets
come to his hands to the amount of it, there -bhieg, no other
debts of higher degree. But may not this presumption be rebutted by an application of the money -in the payment of
other debts, This seems to- have been done by Patton. In
the maintenance and education of the children, and in payment-of othe" debts than his own, he applied the personal
assets.
If the doctrine contended for be"correct, that it was not in
the power of Patton to wave the operation of -law, by which
his own debt would be discharged so soon as assets-of sufficient amount came into hands; it would seem to follow, that
having applied the. assets to other purposeg, his dwn debt becomes forfeited, and the right of retainer completely extinguished. The argument does not -stop short- of this copisequence.
Under this view of the case, to destroy the right of retainer
in the administrator it is only necessary to show that he hid
in hie possession legal -assets sufficient to pay his debt, and
that'there were no Qther debts due by the estate of higher
dignity. Th6se facts being estajlished, if the principle be cor-:
rect, as effectually destroy the existence of the debt and the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
.[Page vs. Patton et at.]

right of retainer; as if the debt had been paid. It can be of no
importance how the legal assets were applied. Being in the
hands of the administrator, the'law applies therii in discharge
of his debt, it is contended,-in defiance.of his own acts and intentions: if this be not the ,case, if the administrator may
postpone the payment of his own debt, a day or a' month, and
give a preference in payments to other demands, he may extend the time at his discretion: and if he may discharge his
own debt, after paying other debts of equal -amount and of no
higher degree, out of the legal assetsi he may continue to give
the preference to other claims, and' eventually discharge hig
debt out of any. moneys which may come into his hands as
representaktive of the estate.
* Is the debt paid so soon as the legal. assets shall come to the
bands of the administrator?
That.the right of action is gonei is admitted; because a man
cannot sue himself: and this right being once extinguished cannot be renewed.
This rule is-founded on reason and justice ,and is well establisbed by repeated adjudications. But, can the principle be
extended so as to 'extinguish the right of retainer Where assets.
equalto the debt. have been received anid applied in the payment 6f other demands? Such a rule would be contrary to reaon and justice, and is not believed to be law.
The lan'guage used in some of the decisions referred to
would, seem to favour the construction contended fcr by the
defendant's counsel; but the point presented in all the cases
was, whether the action could be ustained. The right of the
administrator to retain the money in his hands, for the discharge
of his own debt, is as unquesti.onable as if it had been paid to
him on executions. 'It is his own, and he may retain it as such.
This is the 'case put by -some of the judges in illustration of
the principle: but it isno where said that a waiver of this right
is an abandonment of -it.
Lord- Hardwicke in 2 Atkyns, 411, says, "If the executor
happen to be a bond creditor himself, the court never direst
that if any sums come into his hands he should, from time
to time, by piecemeal,, discharge the principal and interest of
his own debt; for he inay first discharge all other demands before his own- and unless it appear that a considerable sum was

SUPREME COURT.
[Page vs.Patton et al.].

left in his hands sufficient to pay off" his bond entirely, over
and above what was due upon other demands, there could bp no
ground for the exception taken.'
The principle is here stated
correctly, and applies to the question under consideration.
That an administrator or executor may retain the amount of
his debt out of the assets in his hands, is a principle which
grew 6at of the necessity 9f the case. If such a right did nqt
exist, the executor or administrator would be, in many cases,
without remedy.. The principle was intended for his benefit,
and not to mislead or entrap .him.
It is a right which he may postpone, if in doing so he does
no injury to -the estate; and such a question can only be mAde
by the devisees or their heirs. .If he shall pay debts, not on
interest, and permit his own to run on interest, it may become
a question-whether he be entitled to interest. But his right
to pay himself, so Ion' as assets shall remaih in his hands, is
clear,
The moneys arising from the sale of the Mansfield estate
were applied in payment of debts under the orders of the courtof chancery. The decree in 1811 directcd Robert Patton
and others to be.paid "in the order of priorities of their liens."
These, and other facts, connected with it show that the debt due
on the deed of trust was referred to. which constituted a lien
on the estate.
In the year 1812, Patton reported to the court that he- had
retained out of the moneys in his hands as receiver, the balance due to him. This payment was sanctioned by the court.
It appears then that a court of chancery has sanctioned the
payments which have given rise to this controversy. Ot a
foll investigation of the administration account; they direct the
payments to be made out of the equitable fund, Had 'that
court considerbed the claim of Patton as satisfied, by failing to
apply in its discharge the moneys arising from the sale of the
personal property, the payments would not have been decreed.
Debts to a large amount were paid out of the proceeds of
the-real estate, under the sanction of. the court. Must these,
as well as PattQn's debt, be credited to the administration
fund?. Was Patton obliged to Day, his own debt? Was he not
at liberty to release it? And ii- he had done so, could there

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Page vs. Patton et al.]

have been any just ground of complaint by his sureties? Is
not their complaint, as now made, eqnally groundless?
Patton has received payment of a part or the whole of his deed
of trust, nut of the equitable assets, under the decree'of a court
of chancery. This payment cannot be transferred to the-administration fund, and entered as a credit to the administrator;
nor is the administrator, under the circumstances of the case,
entitled to a credit on any other principle, for the amount.
It should be credited to the fund out of which the payment
was made.
Mr JusticeJoHNsoN dissenting.-As Iunderstand the de-

cision just delivered, it affirmp a principle to which I certainly
cannot yield my assent.
As the will charges the real estate as well with the maintenance and edtmation of the children as the payment of debts,
and there does not appear to have been at any time in the administrator's hands a sum suffitient to pay off his whole debt; I am
satisfied that it is not a case of extinguishment: and that the payments made to the maintenance and education of the children,
and the satisfaction of debts of an inferior order, are not to be
imputed to the administrator as payments upon his own bond.
They were voluntary payments,. it is true, but they were
made in pursuance of the will. But asto all other sums arisipg
out of the personalty, and which were not applied to either ofthose purposes, but in fact sunk and wasted in the adminisz
trator's hands, I am clearly of the opinion that they are to
be imputed to him as payments on his own bond; and that
pro tant6, he could not be permitted to apply the proceeds of
the real estate to the satisfaction of his debt; it -wias in fact a
repayment on a debt which he knew to be satisfied.
And as to the amount paid, respectively, to the maintenance
and education of. the children, having an interest in the proceeds of the realty; I have no idea that they can be permitted
to come upon the sureties of the administrator, for the am6unt
so paid on their account. Indeed, upon the whole, it appears
to me to be one of those cases of common misfortune in which
the court ought to leave the parties as it finds them. If'the
personal assets were in fact in existence, it would be a difierent case; and there might be an equity.in the heirs now to

SUPREME COURT.
[Page vs. Patton et al;]

come upon the assets for iidemnity; supposing that-they might
originally have-.compelled the administrator tW apply the per.
sonalty in relief of the real estate. But when the assets are
in fact wasted, I cannot conceive that a court of equity would
ever compel the sureties to pay up.the administration bond for
the relief of the heirs. Their liability is legally confined to
the demands of creditors and distributees alone: and I can- see
no equity in siubjecting . them directly or indirectly to, the
general equity of the heirs, in stretching that liability beyond
its strict legal limits.
Mr Justice BALDwn also dissented from the judgment and
opinion of the court..

This cause came on to be heard on the, transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern
district of Virginia, and on the points and questions on which
the judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinioi,
and which were certified to this court for its opinion in pursuance of the act of congress for*that purpose made and pro,,ided; and Was argued by counsel: ofi consideration-whereof,
it is the opinion of this court that the debt of, Patton, or such
portion of it as was paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the
real estate, should be credited to that fund, and not to his account of the administration- fund., Whereupon it is ordered
and adjudged by this court, that it be certified to the.judges of
the said circuit court that the debt of Patton' or such portion
of it as was paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the real
estate, should be credited to that fund, and not to his account
of the adrihinistration fund.

