JANUARY TERM 183T.

THE UNITED STATES VS. ROBERTSON.
Construction of a bond executed by the President and Directors of the Bank of
Somerset to the United States, for the performance of an agreement made by
them with the United States, for the payment of a debt due to the United
States, arising from deposits madein the bank, for account of the United States.

THIS case came before the circuit court on a certificate of
division from the judges of the circuit court, for the district of
Maryland.
The facts, including those stated in the opinion of the court,
were the following.
In the circuit court, at January, term 1828, the United States
instituted an action of debt on a bond'executed on the 15th of
July 1820, by'Thomas Robertson, Levin Ballard, Arnold E.
Jones, Mathias Deshiell, Charles Jones, :rcey Maddux,
William Done, George W. Jackson, and John H. Bell, of
Somerset county, in the state of Maryland, in the penal sum
of one hundred thousand dollars. The bond and the condition
are stated in the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs gave in evidence a statement of the condition
of the Bank of Somerset, on the 11th of May 1820; by which
it appeared that the assets of the bank consisted of notes discounted, ond hundred and six thousand nine hundred and
ninety-five dollars; real estate, five thousand dollars; debtsdue
by the Bank of Columbia, and 'the Merchants' Bank of Alexandria, one thousand six hundred and seven dollars: and that
its debts were, capital unredeemed, four thousand two hundred and fifty dollars; notes in circulation, fifteen thdusand dol1drs; deposits, including the United States, without interest,
one hundred and fifteen thousand four hundred and twentysix dollars; making a deficit of twenty thousand and seventyfour dollars. The plaintiffs also proved, that from the '15th of
July 1820 to the 15th of July 1825, the president and directors of the Bank of Somerset received in good current money
from the debtors of the bank, and from sales of their real estate, a large sum of money. That they received in payment
of debts due to the bank, and as the proceeds of the real estate
of their debtors, a large sum of money in the bank notes of
VoL. V.-4 F

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

the corporation, and in certificates of deposits.of bank notes of
the same. A certificate of 'those receipts wAs exhibited and
admitted in evidence; by which it appeared that the receipts,
in the period stated, were eleven thousand dollars in good
money, in payment of debts due the bank, and for the proceeds
*of real estate; fifteen thousand live hundred dollars in bank
notes of the corporation, in payment of debts due to. the bank,
or the proceeds of the real estate of the debtors to the bank;
fifteen thousand dollars in certificates of deposits of such notes:
that the payments were, ten thousand dollars for extinguishing
prior lines on an estate conveyed to the bank by L. D. Teackle,
a debtor to the bank; one thousand dollars, for clerk and sheriff's fees, in suits brought by the bank; one thousand dollars,
attorney's fees and commissions; one thousand dollars paid to
William Done, as agent for the bank; five hundred dollars for
taxes on real estate and small charges. This statement contains an allegation by the corporation, that the losses, by insolvencies of its debtors, amount to sixty thousand dollars.
It was further given.ii evidence by the plaintiffs, that Charles
Jones, one of the obligors in the bond, was sheriff of Somerset county from October 1821 to October 1824; and as such,
received, under executions placed in his hands, in favour of the
bank, eight thousand two hundred and fifty-five dollars and
seventy-seven cents, in notes and certificates of the bank, and
in good money; no part of which was proved to have been
paid by him to the bank.
I It was admitted that before the 15th of July. 1820 the notes
of the Somerset Bank had largely depreciated, and were not
current as paper, as a circulating medium; that they have continued to depreciate, and are now worth nothing. No part
of the debt due to the United States has been paid.
The defendants gave evidence of the payments made by the
bank for th; extinguishment of the-liens on the estate of L.
D. Teackle; for clerks and sheriff's fees on suits brought by the
bank against the debtors to the bank; for attorney's fees and
commissions, which were asserted to have been actally due
and, lawfully chargeable; for the lawful and reasonable commissions to William Done, as the .agent of the bank; and for
taxes on real estate; and for small charges. All these payments
were in good money, and were paid between the 15thof July
-1820 and the 15th of July 1825.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

The evidence given by the defendants, as to the taxes on the
real estate of the debtors to the bank, and the, lawfulness of
the fees, cost and commissions, was opposed by evidence on
the part of the United States. Evidence was also given which
was intended to deny that the taxes, fees, &c. were due, or
that they were reasonable.
The plaintiffs also gave in evidence, that attachment suits
were issued against the same debtors of the Bank of Somerset
in the district court of the United States, in the years 1818
and 1819, against whom suits were instituted and prosecuted
by the president and directors, in the county court of Somerset; some of which suits were instituted prior, and some sub5equent to, the instituting of the attachment suits, in*the distriecourt of the United States; and all of which suits were
actually proceeded in after the attachment- suits, and in the
prosecution of which Somerset county suits, the principal fees,
commissions and costs were incurred.
The defendant further offered evidence, that some time after
the execution of the bond, upon which this suit was instituted,
a contest arose between the bank of Somerset and several of
its debtors, in consequence of the bank having refused to receive its certificates of deposit, which the debtors tendered
in payment of debts- due by them to the bank; and that
the right of a debtor to use such certificates in payment of
a debt due by him to the bank was judicially brought before
the Somerset county court in an action institufed therein by
the bank for the recovery of a claim 'which the debtor had
refused topay, except in said certificates; that the county
court at its November term, in the year 1821, decided that the
tender of the certificates of deposit by the said debtors to the
bank, in payment of the debt due by them to the bank, was a
satisfaction of the claim; and that the bank notes and certificates
of the Bank of Somerset were a legal tender to the bank, and
should be received in payments of judgments obtained in that
court in favour of the bank, from the date of the act of assembly of the session of 1818, chap. 177; and that in conformity
with the opinion a verdict was entered for the debtor with a
judgment for his costs. And the defendant also proved that
the bank notes and certificates, received by the president and
directors of the said bank as stated, were received by them
subsequent to the said decision.

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

The defendant also gave in evidence that among the judgments in favour of the bank were several against Littleton D.
Teackle, upon whose property there were prior liens; and
that all the money paid away by the corporation for liens v@as
in discharge of such liens; and that the bank, under their own
executions, bought the property of said Teackle subject to
such liens, and that the property so taken was ana is worth
more than such liens; and that the property was delivered by the
bank to the United States, and has been and is now in the hands
and possession of the United States or its authorized agents.
The plaintiffs then gave in evidence that the property last
referred to was never otherwise in the hands or posse 3sion'of
the United States, than as taken in execution under a writ of
Atrifiacias, issued against the property of the bank, since
the 15th July 1825; and further, that the property is not
worth so much as the amount of the said prior liens.
The defendant offered, at the trial, to deliver to the plaintiffs the notes and. certificates of the bank received in payment
of debts due to the bank and for real estate, but the plaintiffs
declined to receive them.
The defendant further offered in evidence, that the president and directors of the Bank of Somerset, during the five
years from the 1.th of July 1820, to the 15th July 1825,
used due and reasonable diligence in recovering and securing
the property and estate of the said bank, for the benefit of the
United States; and that they, on the 15th July 1825, offered
to deliver over to the United States all the property and estate
which had been received by. them (except what had been
paid for liens, 'commissions, fees, costs and taxes, as herein
before set forth); which the United States refused to accept:
and that the president and directors have continued to hold,
and now hold the same for the benefit of the United States,
and always have been, and are now ready to deliver the same
to the United States.
The plaintiffs then offered in evidence, that the president
and directors did not, during the five years, from the 15th
July 1820, to the 15th July 1825, use due and reasonable diligence in recovering and securing the property and estate of
the bank, for the benefit of the United States; and that they did
not on the 15th Jily 1825, or at any time since, offer to deliver up any property or estate whatsoever; and that they do

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

not now hold any part of such property or estate, by. them
received, for the benefit of the United States; and'that they
have heretofore neglected and refused to deliver up any property or proceeds of property of the bank to the United
States.
The defendant further offered evidence, that the bank, Irom
the 15th July 1820, to the 15th July 1825, sustained ldsses
to the amount of sixty thousand dollars by insolvencies of its
debtors, for which the said corporation was not responsible.
And thereupon the plaintiffs offered evidence, that the said
supposed insolvencies, or the principfl part thereof, happened
by the negligence and misconduct of the said president and di-:
rectors.
Certain proceedings of the corporation relative to the management add transactions of its business .were given in evidence.
At a meeting of the board of directors of the bank on the
16th June 1818,
Ordered, That all persons indebted to. this bank may discharge the same by transfers of its stock, at the rate of ninety
per centum, for the amount of capital actually paid in.
By a resolution of the president and directors of the bank,
passed June 13, 1820, William Done, one of the directors,
"is hereby appointed agent for the Bank of Somerset, to
adjust and settle the claim of the United States, and he is
requested immediately to repair to the seat of government,
and there submit to the proper officer die propositions made
by the former committee on the United States claim; and endeavour to procure the, acceptance of either of them by the
government, in substance as the.same now stands. And whereas, this board has-been informed that it has been represented at the seat of the general government, that the last election
for directors was illegally conducted, and would be contested;
the cashier is requested, to furnish the' said William Done with
such extracts and statements from the proceedings of the board
of directors of April 12th last, as he may think necessary and
sufficient to satisfy the 'officers of government, that the said
election was conducted and closed according to all antecedent
usage in this bank; and, as far as we know, in every other
similar institution."

SUPREME COURT.
[The Uniteg1 States vs. Robertson.]

At a meeting of the president and directors of the bank, -oil
the 15th. of July 1820, the agent, appointed at the former meeting of thi board to proceed to the seat of government for the
purpose of effecting a compromise with the treasury department relative to the claim of the-United States against the
bank, reported, that he had waited accordingly on the secretary and comptroller of the treasury; and that he had entered
into a compromise upon the basis of the second proposition
made by the committee on the United States claim, with a modification'made by the treasury, as follows, viz: The directors
will pledge to the government the whole estate of the corporaton as a security for the payment of the; original principal of
the claim, on or before the expiration of the term of five years
from the date of the compromise; and for the fulfilment of this
engagement, they will bind themselves individually to the
United States in a sum equal to the amount of the debt.
.The board then resolh ed, that the board accept the said proposition as thus modified, provided the United States will agree
to assign to those individuals who shall enter into the bond
the whole claim as itnow stands, and all interest which have
or shall accrue on the same. And for the better security of.
those who shall enter into said bond, and as an indemnification
for any -loss they might sustain, and a compensation for their
extraordinary trouble and responsibility, it is hereby distinctly
declared and understood by this board, that all advantages and
privileges now held by the United States, shall be transferred
to .said individuals; and that they shall be entitled to all interest, profit and costs, which have or shall accumulate on the
said claim, until the same shall be -finally settled.
On the 26th of June 1821, the board of directors ordered,
."That William Done proceed, as soon as convenient, to the
seat of government, for the purpose of finally settling the arrangement entered into with the treasury department; and he
is also requested to ascertain the state of the suit or suits"
brought by the United States against the .bank and its zarnishees, in the district court of Maryland."
" That Charles Jones shall attend all sales of property under execution, shall receive all moneys offered to him in payment of any-execution or-judgment, and shall pay over the
same, at the expiration of each month, to the chairman."

JANUARY'TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

Evidence was given that Charles Jones was solvent during
the whole period of his shrievalty, and that he has since
died, leaving his estate insolvent.
And further testimony was given, that the stockholdersgenerally, availed themselves of the provision of the resolut" of
the 16th June 1818; that where the stockholders were debLors,
the transfer of their stock was made to cancel their' debts pro
tanto: and other debtors purchased from other stockholders
stock for the like purpo-e; that some of the persons who were
directors on the 16th June ISIS, and who acted under the
said res6lution, were obligors on the bond in question; and
that other obligors thereon, subsequently availed themsqlyes
of the same resolution.
Upon the statements, admissions and evidence, the plaintiffs
by their counsel prayed the court for their opinion and direction, as is stated in the opinion of this court.
The defendant also submitted certain prayers to the court,
which are also stated in the opinion of this court.
The case was argued by Mr Berrien, attorney general, for
the United States; and by Mr Martin for the defendant.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought in the court 9f the United States for
the fourth circuit and district of Maryland, on the following
bond:
Know all men' by these presents, that we, Thomas Robert.
son, Levin Ballard, Ainold E. Jones, 'Mathias Dashiell,
Charles Jones, :DWarcey Maddux, William 'Done, George W.
Jackson and John H. Bell, all of Somerset county and state of
Maryland, are held and firmly bound unto the United States
of America,.in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, current money of the United States, to be paid to the'said-United
States, their certain attorney or attorneys, to the which pay.
ment well and truly to be made and done, we hereby bind
ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, jointly and
severally, firmly by these presents, as witness our hands and
seals this 15th day of July, in the year 1820.
Whereas, on the first day of August 1817, the Bank of Sor-

-SUPREME COURT.
[The United States w. Robertson.]

erset became indebted to the United States for the sum of sixtynine thousand and seventy-nine dollars* and sixty-two cents,
deposited in said bank, by George Brown, collector, and others,
for the final payment of which suni, and the better security of
the United States, an agreement has this day been entered into
between the United States on the one part, and the president
and directors of the said Bank of Somerset, on the other part,
in the words following, viz.
"The directors agree to pledge to the government of the
United States, the entire estate of the corporation as a security
for the payment of the original pri-cipal of the claim, on or
before the expiration of the term of five years, from the date
of the compromise, and for the fulfilment of this engagement
they will bind themselves individually to the United States,
in a sum equal to the amount of the debt; and in order that no
misunderstanding may hereafter arise respecting the true intent and meaning of the phrase, " the entire estate of the corporation," and the nature and extent of the individual obligation, it is hereby declared to be distinctly understood by both
parties, that the entire estate of the corporation means not'only
all the real estate of the said Bank of Somerset, but also all the
debts of every description which are now due and owing unto
the said bank, or to which the said bank may have any legal or
equitable right whatever; and it is also understood by both
parties that the bond of individuals is not intended as a contract for the absolute payment of the said sum of money from
their private estates, but as a guarantee that the said president
and directors and their successors will fulfil tlitir agreement
to preserve entire the estate of the corporation, until the United
States are paid and satisfied the said original principal of their
claim, and to give a preference to the United States over any
other creditor of the bank. The United States agree, upon
receiving the bond of individuals, to assign the direction and
management of the suit which has been instituted in the district court of Maryland, against the bank, to the individuals
who thus enter into bond;.,and at the expiration of the said
term of five years, upon the payment of the sum of ixty-nine
thousand and seventy-nine dollars and sixty-two cents, on or
before the day of payment, the United States will give a full
and free acquittal to the said corporation for the whole claim."

JANUARY TERM 1831.

649

[The United States vs, Robertson.]

.Now the condition of the foregoing obligation is such, that if
the said president and directors and their successors shall on
their part well and faithfully perform the said contract, and
shall, in prefer3nce to any other -claim against the said bank,
pay into the treasury of the United States the said sum of sixty-nine thousand and seventy-nine dollars and sixty-two cents,
on or before the 15th of July 1825, then the foregoing obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue
in law.
Signed and sealed by Thomas Robertson,- L~vin Ballard,
Jun., Arnold E. Jones, Mathias Dashiell, Charles Jones, Marcey Maddux, William Done, and George W. Jackson.
Johhi H. Anderson, witness.
The issues joined on several special pleas, filed by the defendant, were withdrawn by consent; and nil debet pleaded,
under an agreement that the parties might give any matter in
evidence vhich might have been given under any form of
pleadings.
It will be perceived from the condition of the bond, fhat the
Bank of Somerset had become indebted to the United States in
a large sum, of money, on account of deposita made by a collector, and that a suit had been instituted against the bank in
the court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
On the 15th of July. 1820, an agreement was entered'into
between the United Statbs and the president and directors of
the Bank of Somerset, which is recited in the condition of the
bond. The principal objecf of this agreement was to secure
the whole estate and property of the bank of every description
for the payment of the principal debt, on or before the expiration of five years from the date of the agreement. For the
performance of this engagement, the directors agree to bind
themselves individually in a sum equal to the amount of the
debt; but this bond of individuals is not to be understood, as a
bontract for the absolute payment of the said sum of money,
but as a guarantee that the president and directors, and their
successors, will fulfil their agreement to preserve the entire
estate of the corporation, until -the United State are satisfied
with the principal, and to give a preference to the United States
over any other creditor of the bank. The United States on
VOL. V.-4 G

SUPREME ,COURT.
[The United States ox. Robertson.]

their part agree, on receiving this bond, to assign the direction
and manaeement of the suit to the obligors.
The construction of this bond has been discussed at the bar,
as a preliminary question to the several points niade in the
cause. The United States contend, that the agreement recited
in the condition of the bond, is made by the then president and
directors of the Bank of Somerset, in their individual as well
as corporate character, and thit the defendani is bound individually, not merely to the extent of the obligation created by
-the bond, but also as far as he would have been bouna had he
signed the agreement in his private character.
The defendant contends, that the agreement was made by
the president and directors for the bank, as its legitimate agents,
and is to be treated as an engagement made in their corporate
-character; and that the bond is an undertaking by the obligors,
in pursuance of that agreement,' by which they become sureties for the bank, that the president, directors and their successors, will peiform their engagements with good faith.
In pursuing. this inquiry, the form of the instrument and the
nature of the transaction must he considered.
The agreement between the United States and the bank .is
not spread on the record, otherwise than as it is recited in the
condition of the bond. It does not'appear to have been signed
by the president and directors individually. This could not
have been omitted, had they intended to bind themselves individually by that kgreement. As an official act, it was sufficient
that it be entered on their journals; as an undertaking of individuals, it ought to be signed by them. It is referred to inthe
recital of the cofidition in these Words: "and whereas, an agreement has this day been entered into between the United States
oin the one part, and the president and directors of 'the said
Bank of Somerset of the other part, in these words,",&c.
This language indicates,. we think, an agreement by the president and directors, in the. corporate character in whiclr they
are mentioned, rather than in their. individual characters in
whicl they- are not mentioned. If the president and directors are bound in their private character, is every inember of
tle board bound, whether he was present and assented to the
agreement or not? The incorporating act declares, that the
aftairs of th bank shall be managed by a president and'ten

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The Ujited States'vs, Robertson.3

directors. Are they all bound by this gree-ment? If not, who
of them are? The paper itself, as recited, does not inform us.
If we look out of the condition of the bond to the journals of.
thie corporation for instruction; we are informed, thatat a meeting of the board on the 15th of July 1820, the president and
six directors attended. If it be contended that this record
fixes the members present, one of them, George Jones, who
was a party to the agreement, did not sign the bond. Is he
bound? If we are permitted to travel out of the bond, and
search the journals of the bank for information on thig subject,
the same record ififorms us that this whole business was transacted by the board in their corporate character, as acting for
the bank.
The great object of the agreement was to pledge the estate
of the bank, to secure, as far as it would secure, the payment
of the debt due to the United 'States. None could give this
pledge, but thn' whose official duty it was fo manage that property; and they could only givd it in the character in which
they were entrusted with its management. They alonh, in
their political character, and their successors,. could redeem
this pledge; for only those who retained the management of
the affairs of the bank during the five years given for the payment of the debt, could keep the estate together, and apply it
exclusively to the use of the United States.
To what purpose should the United States require that the
directors should bind themselves individually, if they were
already bound individually by the agreement itself? This stipulation, being for the benefit of the United States,. must be
considered as introduced at their instance; and if we may look
at the proceedings of the board on the 15th of July 1820, w.e
are informed, that the agent of the board, who carried propositions to the gecretary of the treasury, reported, that he had
made a compromise on thebisis of the second proposition, with
this modification made by the treasury. But without going
out of the bond, this stipulation must be considered as being
made on the part of the United States. For what purpose,
we repeat, was it made? If the individual members of the
board were bound by the agreemeht, why require a bond from
the same persons as sureties for themselves? They could be
sued upon the original agreemant as well as upon the bond.

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

Why this complex proceeding? Upon the hyp9thesisof individual obligation under the agreement, it is inexplicable.
Upoh the hypothesis that the original agreement was a mere
corporate act, the whole transaction is accounted for. The
agreement being a corporate act, could not affect the members
of fie board in their private characters: it was a mere pledge
of the faith of the corporation, for the violation of which, the
corporate funds would alone bb responsible, and would add
nothint to the security of the government; because the liability' of those fun ds was already as complete as any corporate
act could make it. The obligation, of individuals therefore
was required, who should be sureties that the corporate body
would faithfully observe.,its contract. This is expressly declared.to be the effect of the bond, and the purpose for which
it was given, The words are: "and it is also. understood by
both partiei, that the bond of individuals is not intended as a
"contract
for the absolute payment of the said sum of money
from their private estates, but as a guarantee that the said president and directors, and their successors [not their heirs and
executors] will fulfil their agreement to preserve entire the
estate, of the corporation," &c.
-The words which follow the recital of the condition,, serve
still farther to show the understanding of, the parties. They
are, "now- the condition of the foregoing obligation is such,
'that if 'the said president and directors, and their successors,
shall op'their part well and-faithfully perform the said contract," &c. then the foregoing obligation to be void, &c.; ohviously referring to a contract made by the corporate body,
and to be performed by the corporate body.
An argument against this construction of the instrument has
been founded on the following clause. "The UnitedStates agree,
upon receiving -the bond of individuals, to assign the direction
and-management of the suit which has been instituted in the distrit court of Maryland to the individuals who thus enter into
bond;. axid at the expiration 6f the said term of five years, upon
the payment of the sum of sixty-nine thousand and seventynine dollars and. si-;ty-two cents, on or. before the Jay of
payment, the United states will give a full and free acquittal
to the said corporation for the'whole claim;"
The court does not allow to this clause that .influence over

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

the agreement for which the counsel for the United States contends. Being a stipulation to assign the management of the
suit, not the judgment which should be obtained, the power
might have been conferred on -the president and directors and
their successors, without releasing the debt. If, as we suppose,
it was intended as -an inducement to incur personal responsibility by affording security .to those who should incur it, the
clause rather furnishes an argument i'n favour of that construction for which the defendant contends.
We are of opinion that the agreement recited in the condition of the bond on which this suit is instituted, is in fact
made, and was understood by the parties to be-.made by the
United States, with the Bank of Somerset acting by its lawful
agents, the president and directors of that bank; and that the
obligors bound themselve., as sureties, that the bank would
faithfully perform its engagements.
At the trial of the cause, the following points were made at
the bar by the counsel for the Ufiited States, and the opinion
of the court was asked upon them.
1. That, -by the bond on which this suit is brought, the de
fendant has undertaken that the estate of the bank, including
its debts, shall be -applied in the first instance to extinguish
the debt due to the United States in five years, if that estate
was sufficient to extinguish it; and if the jury shall be of the
opinion that the estate, at the date of the' bond, was sufficient,'
and might, by the use of proper means on the part of the defendant and his co-ebligors, lhave been rendeied available to
that purpose, within the time limited by the bond, the defendant is answerable for any portion of the debt ascertained upon
the face of the bond, which remained due to the United States
at the expiration of the five-years given by that bond,. and
which still remains due.
2. That it being admitted the statement of the condition of
the bank, on the lth May 1820, which has been offered in
evidence, proceeded from the obligors in the bond, and has
been furnished by them, it is an admission on their part that
the estate of the bank was at that time sufficient to have paid
the ddbt due to the United States, and throv's the burthen of
proof on the defendant to show how it afterwards became insufficient; and, in the absence of satisfactory'pr6of on this

.654

SUPREIE COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

point the estate of the bank is to be held sufficient to have
paid the debt due to the United States within the five Years
given by the bon-d, and the defendant is answerable for any
portit)n of that debt which remains unpaid to the United States.
3. That, among the duties imposed on the-defendantby the
bond, was that of calling in the debts due to the bank in the
most expeditious and effectual manner; and if the jury shall
believe that a resort to attachment against the bank debtors in
the name of the United: States, on the judgment .whil-4.had
been obtained by the United States against the bank, was the
most.expeditious and effectual manner, and that the obligors in
the bond have no t iesorted to this mode of proceeding, they
hfave'been guilty of a breach of their undertaking in the bond,
and are answerable for the full value of any debt which might
have been secured by that mode of proceeding.
4. That by the bond, on which this suit is brought, the obligors were bound to use diligence in enforcing the collection of
the outstanding debts due to the Bank of Somerset at the date
of the bond; and that if they have failed to employ the best
means which the law placed in their. power, to enforce such
collection, they are respoLsible for all losses proceeding from
their neglect to. use those means, &c.
5. That having been authorized to proceed against the debtors of the bank on the judgment which hid been obtained by
the United States against the Bank of Somerset, and to enforce
the proceedings against those debtors as garnishees, which
had already been instituted in that suit, as well as to take out
new attachments against other debtors in the name of the
United States, the plaintiffs in that judgment; if, instead of
resorting to these proceedings, they brought new actions
against their debtols in the state courts, and by the adoption
of this latter course, debts have been lost which might have
been saved by resorting to the process of attachment against
those debtors under the judgment before mentioned, the defendants are liable for all such losses..
6; That if the jury shall be satisfied that the statement of
the condition f the bank, on the 11th May 1820, was its true
condition at that time, and that no proof has been offered by
the defendants to show that this condition was variant at the
date of the bond, the defendants can repel the inference of the

JANUARY TERM, 1831.
[The UMited States vs. Robertson.],.

solvency of the bank in no other way, than by showingto the
satisfaction of the jury, that the debtors, whose debts compose
the aggregate of one hundred and six thousand nine hundred
and ninety-five dollars presented on the statement, werewholly
or partially insolvent; and that the defendant was unable to
collect the"debts, either by reason of such insolvency, or by
some legal impediment which they could not control; and
that, in the absence of such proof, the legal presumption will
be that such debtors were solvent, and that those debts might,
'have been collected by the use of due diligence; and if they
have not been collected and paid over to the United States,
that the defendant is liable for the amount of the debt acknow
ledged in the bond to be due to the United States, or for whatever balance of that amount remains unpaid to 'the United
States.
7. That attachments at the suit of the .United States which
had been laid in ffhe hands of the debtors to the Bank of Somerset, prior to the date of the bond; fixed the debts in the
hands. of such debtors; and that such debts could bedischarged
only by the payment of good and lawful money, equal in value
to the amount-of such debts; and that if the obligors in the
bond on which this suit is brought, did afterwards receive
such debts-from the debtors, in depreciated notes of the Bank
of Somerset or any other depreciated paper, the defendant is
liable to the United States, in good and lavful money, for.the
amount of debts so received in depreciated paper, if there be
no proof that such debtors were in circumstances s insolvent,
as that they could not have paid their debts in good and lawful
money.
S. That by virtue of the agreement recited in the bond, on
which this suit is brought, and of the bond itself, the debts due
to th4e bank were so pledged to the United States, that the obligors in the bond had no right to receive these debts in the
depreciated notes of the Bank of Somerset; and that if after.
the date of the bond they did so receive them, they are liable
to the United States, in good and lawful money for the amount
so received, if there be no proof that the debtors from w.hom.
they were so received were in circumstances so insolvent, that
they could not have paid these debts in good and lawful
mongy.
9. That by virtue of the bond and the agreement therein

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

recited, the defendant was bound to see that the estate of the
bank, as described in the agreement and bond, should be applied in the first instance to the payment of the debt due to
the United States, before any payment made to any other creditor; and that if any portion of that estate has been paid to
the holders of certificates of deposit, which were outstanding
at the date of the bond, or if these certificates have been received in payment of debts due by the holders to the bank,
the defendant is liable for all sums so paid to the holders of
such certificates, and for the amount of all debts for which
such certificates, have been receiyed in payment, if there be
no proof that .the debtors from whom they were so received
were in circumstances so insolvent, that they could not have
paid those debts in good and lawful money.
10. That in all cases where, after the date of the bond, moneys- have been shown to have been paid under executions at
the suit of the bank, placed in the hands of Charles Jones, the
sheriff of the county who is admitted to have been one of the
obligors in the bonc, the defendant is liable for all such amounts
so received -by the said Charles Jones.
11. That the defendant had no authority to pay away any
'part of.the estate of the bank, as described in the bond, to the
purpose of relieving liens on the estates of the debtors to the
bank; but'their duty ivas to have collected the debts due to,
the bank out of the estate of such debtors, which thpy will be
presumed to have been capable of doing until the contrary is
prqyed; and in the absence of such proof, they are liable to all
sums paid away for such liens.
12. That as it was in the power of the obligors to have proceeded by attachment against the, debtors of the bank, under the judgment -which had been obtained in the district
court of. the United States, the institution of new suits against
such debtors in the county court of Somerset was dunecessary,
until it shall be proved that they could not have.so proceeded;
and thW the costs and expenses attefiding these suits were incurred'by the otligors, in their own wrong, and rhust fall upon
them; and the defendafit is entitled to na credit on account of
such costs and expenses, but must answer for the value of these
debts clear of any. other costs and expenses, than would have
arisen from-his proceeding by attachment in the courts of the
United States.

I JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

13. That the defendant was not authorized to diminish the
amount of the estate of the bank, by the payment of a commission for collection to William Done,-one of the obligors.
14. That if the resolution, of the board of directors, of date
the 16th June 1818, authorizing the stockholders to assign
their stock at ninety dollars, in discharge of their debts, was
made for the purpose of shielding the stockholders from the
judgment of the United States and the process of attachment
against the debtors of the bank which the United States were
authorized to sue out against these debtors, such transfers of
stock were fraudulent and void; and it was the duty of th6
obligors to have re-asserted these debts, as they stood prior to
such transfer of stock, and to liave proceeded to recover them
by the legal process of attachment in the name of the United
States; and that if they failed to do so, such failure was a
breach of their duty under the said bond and contract; and if
such debts might have been so recovered by the use of due
diligence, the defendant is liable for the amount.
15. That if process of attachment, at the suit of the United
States, had been served on these stockholders, prior to such
transfer in payment of their debts, such debts became .fixed
thereby to the United States; and the subsequent transfer of
stock in extinguishment of them was a void Act, and these
debts constituted a part of the estate of the bank, which the
defendant was bound to apply to the payment of the debt of
the United States, and not having done so he is liable for those
amounts.
And the counsel for the defendants made the following
points:
1. That by the true construction of the bond, the 0bligors
undertook for the acts of the corporation only, and not for
their own conduct as individuals, or the conduct of any other
individuals, not being the agents of-the corporation.
2. That payment made to the sheriff is no payment made to
the bank, and that the defendant is not liable for any money,
received by the aforesaid Charles Jones as sheriff, unless the
same was paid over to the bank, or to the agents of the bank
lawfully authorized to receive the same.
3. That the bank is not liable for any depreciation fn the
VOL. V,-4 H

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

money, which the bank was compelled to receive by the judgment of the Maryland courts.
4. That the corporation had not the right to use the attachments which had issued from the district or circuit court; nor
to order any prosess connected with the suit or judgment of
the United States against the Bank of Somerset, and cannot
therefore have been guilty of negligence or misconduct, by
reason of not attempting to use the said attachments oi to issue
process on said judgmend.
5. That the defendant is not liable for any depreciation in
the money, which the bank was compelled to receive by the
judgment of the Maryland courts, unless the jury find that the
bank was guilty of culpable negligence or misconduct, in prosecuting their claims in the courts of Maryland, instead of
using the attachments issued from the district or circuit court
of the United States.
6. That if the jury believe that the property, from which
the liens were'removed, by payments of the Bank of Somerset, as stated in the evidence, has"come to the hands and possession of the plaintiffs, and is worth more than such liens, and
that the payment of such liens was made with an honest intention and view, for the benefit of the United States, then the
plaintiffs are not entitled to recover the amount so paid for
suvh liens, as stated in the evidence.
7. That if the jury find from the evidence, that the taxes,
offi.cers' fees, counsel fees and commissions, paid by the bank,
were actually due, and that the said taxes were lawfully
chargeable on the said property, when in the hands of the bank,
as the agent of the United States, and that the said officers' fees
and counsel fees and commissions became due on account of
suits instituted by the bank, as the agent of the United States,
under the contract upon which this suit is brought, and that
the said fees and commissions were lawful and reasonable; that
then the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover the amount so
paid by the bank, of taxes, officers' fees, counsel fees and commissions, unless the jury find that, in instituting the said suits,
the said bank from negligence and misconduct violated its
duty to the United States.
Upon these points too the instructions of the court to the
jury were requested.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
tThe United States vs. Rgbertson.]

The record states that the judges being opposed in opinion
on each of these questions, ordered them on motion of the
counsel for the plaintiffs to be certified to this court for its decision; and discharged the jury.
Some general propositions have been stated in argument
which bear upon all the points ; and which will be -considered
before we proceed to apply-them to the several specific questions which have been certified by the circuit court.
The counsel for the United States insists, that by the aVt of
1818, the United States were empowered -to enforce payment of the judgmet they might obtain against the bank, in
specie, by summoning the debtors of the corporation as garnishees and obtaining judgments against them. The act provides, that in any suit thereafter instituted' by 'the United
States against any corporate body for the recovery of money
upon any bill, note or other security, it shall be lawful to sum-.
mon as garnishees the debtors of such corporhtion, who are required to state on oath the amount in which they stand
indebted, at the time of serving the summons, for which
amount judgment shall be entered in favour of the United
States in the same manner as if it had been due and owing to
the United States.
This act operates a transfer from the bank to the United
States of those debts which might be due from the persons
who should be summondd as garnishees. They become by
the service of the summons the debtors of the United States,
and cease to be the debtors of thebank. But they owe to the
United States precisely what they owed to the bank, and no
more. On the 9th of February 1819, the legislature of Maryland, passed an act, declaring that in payment of any debt due to,
or judgment obtained by any bank wfthin that state, the note
of such bank should be received. This act, so far as respects
debts on which judgments have not been obtained, embodies
the general and just principles respecting offsets which are of
common application. Every debtor may pay his creditor with
the notes of that creditor. They are an equitable and legal
tender. So far as these, notes were in possession of the debtor at the time he was summoned as a garnishee, they form a
counter claim, which diminishes the debt due to the bank to
the extent of that counter claim. But the residue becomes a

SUPREME COURT.
EThe United States vs. Robertson.]

debt to the United States, for which judgment is to be rendered. May this judgment be discharged by the paper.of the
bank?
On this question the court are divided. Three judges are of
opinion that by the nature of the contract and by the operation
of the act of Maryland upon, it, an original right existed to
discharge the debt in the notes of the bank; which original
right remains in full force against the United States, who
come in as assignees in law, not in fact; and who must therefore stand in the place of the bank.
Three other judges are of opinion, that the right to pay the
debt in the notes of the bank does not enter into the contract.
A note given to pay money generally, is a note to pay in
legal currency, and the right to discharge it with a particular
paper, is an extrinsic circumstance depending on its being due
to the person or body corporate responsible for that paper,
which right is terminated by a transfer of. the debt.
The counsel for the United States also contend, that the
obligors are responsible in this suit for the act of any individual who has signed the bond, by which any portion of the estate of the bank may have been lost: and for the omission of
the obligors to perform any act within their power, which
,might have enabled the corporate body to collect.its debts, in
money of more value than its own notes.
We do not think so. Whatever obligations a sense of right
might have imposed upon them as members of the corporaion, the obligation imposed by the bond itself is measured by
its terms. They do not undertake for their general conduct as
individuals. They do not undertake for each other as to any
matter not expressed in the bond. They undertake that the
bank shall perform the contract recited in the condition. and
for nothing more.
The bond does not stipulate that the obligors will do any
thing which may facilitate the operations of the bank in collecting its debts and performing its contract with the United
States.
It has been urged that they might have used the power to direct and managethe suit, so as to compel the debtors to the bank,
by summoning them as garnishees, to discharge their debts
in specie. The United States have not required them to make

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

any use of the power to manage and directthe suit. Nothingis
specified, nor is .any tbing either demanded or undertaken on
this subject. Were this court to insertit, we should add anew
term to the bond, and create an obligation which the parties
have not imposed upon themselves. We should do something
more than construe and enforce the contract.
which the record.now appears, this quesnon
In the state irr
does not regularly arise. If the obligors were bound to use
their power to direct and manage the suit, in the manner most
advantageous to the United States ; if we could suppose that
the power was given, not for the benefit of the obligors who
obtained it, but for the benefit of the United States, who agreed
to surrender it unconditionally, for'something else stipulated
in th'e bond: still this obligation, so to use the power, could
not commence until the power was given. This we think is
not shown by the record.
The band was executed to the United States, and this action
is a proof that it was accepted." So far as respects the liability of
the obligors, as sureties for the bank, the acceptance has relation
to tib date: but so far at respects the liability to be'created by
a subsequent act of the obligee, this\relation cannot be sustained,
The actual time of acceptance becomes a subjet of inquiry.
'The record furnishes reason fdr the opinion, that the bond
wag not accepted 'at, its datc, on the 15th of July 1830. -The
acceptance being a fact in pais, we may look out of the bond
for proof of it.
The directors agree to bind themselves individually for the
performance ofthe cortract recited in the condition. This wag
required by the treaoury department, in terms implying that all
the directors should so bind themselves. The act incorporating the Bank of Somerset makes the board to consist of a president and ten directors; the bond is executed by the president
and seven directurs. It remained some time for the signature
of others, and was incomplete at its date. It might, without
the slighteft breach of faith, have been rejected by the -secre.
tary of the treasury; and; as it did not conform to his original
proposition, remained as an escrow until approved byhim. The
rdecord furnishes some evidence that it was not immediately approved.
On the 26th of June 1821, the board of directors ordered,

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

"that William Done proceed as soon as convenientto the seat of
government, for the purpoge of finally settling the arrangement
entered into with the treasury department; and he is also requested to ascertain the state of the suit or suits brought by the
United States against the bank and its garnishees, in the district court of Maryland:"
If then the power claimed for the obligees, to direct and manage the suit of the United States,, was conferred by the mere
operation of the bond; it could not be conferred until the bond
was actually accepted, and'the time of acceptance ought, for
this particular purpose, to be shown. But this power is not
conferred by the mere operation of the bond. It requires a
distinct and independent act on the part of the government.
" The tlnited States agree, upon receiving the bond of individuals, to assign the direction and management of the suit which
has been instituted in the district court of Maryland against
the bank, to the individuals who thus enter into bond." Till
this authority was actual'y given, the attorney for the United
States would have disregarded, and ought to have disregarded
any orders received from the obligors in the bond.
Suits were instituted by the bank against its debtors in the
courts of the state; .y whose judgment the bank was compelled to receive not only its own notes, but the certificates of deposit held by its debtors. The counsel for the United States
insists that the bank is responsible for the sums so received, in
violation of its agreement to give a preference'to tbe United
States over other creditors. So far as this act was voluntafy
on the .part of the bank, it is a violation of the contract, for
w ch its sureties are liable. But how far was it voluntary?
The bank possessed no other means of collecting its debts than
through the medium of the state courts. It might therefore be
necessary to resort to those courts in order to avoid a total loss.
The act 'of limitations, independent of those casual insolvencies which might occur, would have formed a serious deduction from that estate; which it was their duty topreserve entire
for the United States. The bank, perhaps, might have made,
and sound morality required that they should have endeavoured to make new arrangements with the United States. It is
not certain that any airangements which would remove diffl-

JANUARY TERM ,1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

culties with which the whole transaction was embarrassed,
were practicable. But, be this as it may, we perceive no other
6ourse which was prescribed by duty and by contract, with
respect to their debts generally, than to sue in the state courts.
With respect to those debts which were attached by the United
States, the same division of opinion exists as with respect to
their payment in the notes of the bank.
We will now apply these principles to the particular points
on which the judges of the cireuit court were divided.
On the first question propounded by the counsel for the
United States; and also on the first question propounded by the
counsel for the defendant, this court is of opinion; that the
obligors undertook for the faithful performance by the president and directors, of the contract recited in the condition of
the bond, on which the suit is instituted; and not far their own
conduct as individuals; and thakthey are responsible for any
failure on the part of the bank to perform that engagement.
On the second and sixth questions propounded by the plaintiffs, this court is of opinion, that the statement of the condition of the bank of the 11th of May 1820, which appears in
the record, is evidence to be submitted to the jury, who are to
judge on the whole testimony how far the estate of the bank
was at that time sufficient to pay the debt due to the United
States; and if any part of that estate has been wasted or misapplied by the corporate body or their agents, or has been appropriated unnecessarily to any purpose other than towards
the debt of the United States, or is otherwise unaccounted for;
the defendant is responsible for such misapplication or waste.
and for any sum not accounted for.
On the third and fourth questions propounded by the plaintiffs, this court is of opinion, that the obligors did'not-undertake by their bond to call in the debts due to the bank. That
duty was to be performed by the president and directors of the
bank; for whose faithful performance of it the obligors are responsible.
The court does not perceive the application of the fifth question on the part of the plaintiffs to-the cause, unless the president and directors of the bank be considered as the obligors,
which idea is negatived in the answer to the first question.

SUPREME COURT.
[The United.States w. Robertson.]

The obligors had no power to bring actions against the debtors
of the bank in the state courts.
On the seventh question propounded by the plaintiffs, this
court is of opinion that the attachments at the suit of the
United States which had been laid in the bands of the debtors to
the Bank of. Somerset, prior to the date of the bond, fixed the
debts in the hands of such debtOrs, as to the sum remaining due
after deducting the legal offsets against the bank then in the
hands of such debtors. This court gives no opinion as to the
money or paper in which the sum so remaining due was demandable.
The eighth instruction required by the plaintiffs ought not
to be given as asked.
The ninth question is answered in the opinions given by
this court on the preceding inquiries.
On the tenth question propounded by the plainti:fs, and the
second propounded by the defendant, this court is of opinion
that the bank is liable for the money received by Charles
Jones, as their collector; and the defendant is liable therefor as
their surety; but that the bank is not liable for the money
which came to his hands .as sheriff, "unleps the president and.
directors were guilty of negligence in ising the appropriate
means to drqF it out of his hands in reasonable time.
On the eleventh question propounded by the plaintiffs, and
the sixth propounded by the defendant, this court is of opinion
that it was .the duty of -the president and directors to collect
the debts due to the bank. In the performance of this duty it
might be necessary to. purchase property'pledged to, the bank
which was subject td prior liens, and to relieve such property
from its pIrior incumbrances, in order to avoid a total loss of
the debt. This may have been advantageous, or may have been
disadvantageous to the United States.
We think the transaction, with all its circumstances, ought
to be submitted to the jury; and that the liability of the defendant can in no event exceed the actual loss sustained by the
United States, in consequence of tht bank having taken the
property, by discharging the prior incumbrances instead of
suing the debtor in the state court.
On the twelfth question propounded by the plaintiffs, and

JANUARY TERM "1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

the seventh, propounded by the defendant; this court is of opinion, that the president and directors of the Bank of Somerset,
had no power over the judgment of the United States. They
could therefore proceed only in the state courts; and were entitled to credit for such necessary expensesi as were incurred
in such suits as it was prudent to bring.
On the thirteenth question, propounded by the. plaintiffs;
this court is of opinion; that the propriety of allowing the commissions paid to William Done depends on their reasonableness.
On the fourteenth and fifteenth questions, propounded by the
counsel for the plaintiffs; this court is of opinion, that the
instructions ought to have been given as asked; except so much
of the fourteenth, as states it to have been the duty of the obligors, instead of the president"and directors, to reassert these
debts; and so much as supposes a power to proceed by the legal
process of attachment in the name of the United States; and
except so much of the fifteenth as supposes a power in the defendant to apply the funds of the bank.
The court is of'opinion, that the third, fourth, and fifth
instructions, nioved by the counsel for the defendants, ought to
be given as asked; except so much of the fifth as submits to the
jury the question on the power of the bank, to use the attachments issued from the district court of the United States.
All which is to be certified to the circuit court, for the fourth
circuit and. district of Maryland.
Mr Justice BALDwIN dissenting.

I consider the directors of a bank, as its chartered agents;
and the bank as bound by their acts, when they are within the
powers, and are exercised on the subjeots, and in the manner
authorized by the charter. 12 Wheat. 52, 53, 58, 83, 87.
Shanklandvs. Corporation of Washington, decided at this term.
If a corporation is authorized to raise money by a lottery, their
agents cannot sell it; 12 Wheat. 55; if to raise-a specific sum they
cannot raise a quarter. Lee vs. Manchester Canal, 11 East. 645,
654. Every act of fraud, departure from their duty, or any
other illegal act, committed by the directors of a bank, or the
cashier, by their connivance and permission; however, saneVOL. V.-4 I

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

tioned by the uniform usage of the board"; is an excess of power
and void fromillegality. l Peters, 71, 72. The'directors are
liable individually; but the bank cannot be bound by their
doing that, which they had no lawful power to do, or. which
was a violation of some duty enjoinetd by the charter, or resulting from the nature and objects of the incorporation;. for
the directors are not then their agents. A corporation is
strictly limited to the exercise of those powers which are
specifically conferred on it. 4 Peters, 168. 2 Dows. P. C.
521, &c. The directors own none of the property or funds
of the bank. They are trustees for the stockholders and creditors. Their control over the effects is entirelyfid~iciary, and
responsible; deriving their power over them by the act of incorporation, they must execute it -according to its provisiQns
and directions; which are in their nature creative, and not
merely reatrictive,-inherent powers. If the act of incorporation is their only authority, they must act within its precise
terms. 2 Dow. P C. 523. By'section thirteenth, of thd chars
ter, they may manage the funds in the common course of
banking, for the use and benefit of the stockholders; but for
any fraud are liable to an imdictment, a suit by the bank for
damages sustained, or forfeiture of their stock.
If they manage them in any other way, they do it on their
own individual responsibility, not on that-of the bank, as its
authorized agents; if misapplied funds of the corporation come.
to the hands of innocent third persong;they cannot be recovered back. But if the directors make a contract which contains stipulations exceeding their authority; it cannot be en.
forced against th bank by the. party .contracting with them.
By the act of entracting -with the -agents and trustees of a
corp6ration, the party.-is presumed and- bound to know the
nature, extent, and the legitimate objects of their authority;
according to the terms of the charter; and, necessarily, contract subject to them.
The twelfth section of the law of Maryland, ch. 32. De.
cember 1813, chartering the bank of Somerset, enacts that,
"no member of said company shall be answerable in his personal, oritidividual property, for any contract or engagement
of said bank, or for any losses, defiiencies or failures thereof,
of the capital stock thereof: but all the capital stock, together

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

with all its property, rights and credits of the said institution
shall at all times be answerablefor demands against said bank."
At, or as near the date of the bond as could be ascertained, according to the statement given in evidence by the plaintiffs,
the bank owed the creditors one hundred and thirty thousand
dollars; whereof there was due to the holders of notes, fifteen
thousand dollars to individual depositors, forty-six thousand
dollars; and to the United States, sixty-nine thousand dollars. oThe whole property and effects of the bank, amounted to one hundred and thirteen thousand dollars; of which
sixty .thousand dollars appear to be lost by insolvencies.
The state of the bank, in May 1820, ihows on its face a
deficit of twenty-one thousand dollars; short of the debts.
With this law and statement bf the bank before them, the
plaintiffs and the directors entered into the agreement of the
1.5th of July 1820; by which the entire estate of the corpokation.was pledged to the United States,'for the payment of their
debt of sixty-nine thousand dollars; and they were to have a
preference over every other creditor of the bank. They
were entitled to no such preference by law; and unless the
agreement of the directors gave it to them, under their authority as agents of the bank, they cannot enforce it. The power
and right of an individual to prefer one creditor to another, is
undoubted; not because any law confers that right upon him,
but being the owner, and having full'power of disposing of it
as he pleases among his creditors, or to sell it for money, the distribution or payment ofit at his pleasurdamong them,resultsfrom
hisownership;and no law hasprohibited, orrestrained him. But,
to my mind, an agent or trustee of a banking corporation is in a
different situation; he has no rights of individual ownership; his
control over the effect is solely derived from the law; regulated and controlled by it, in any application he may make of
it. The moment he exceeds his chartered powers, or violates
his duty as prescribed by law, all privity between him and
'tfie bank ceases: he is no longer their agent; and his acts are
no longer theirs. Conceding the rule to be, that in a contest betweefi creditors at the counter of a bank, the note or check
first presented, may be first paid, by the cashier; it cannot, in
my opinion, apply to real estate, or unavailable effects; which.
require time and legal process for their collection; and which

SUPREME UOURT.
[The United States v. Robertson.]

the charter declares, shall bQ at all times answerable for demands against the bank. Directors have no inherent right in
the property, or control over it; resulting from ownership
which gives them the power of- individual debtors to give
vreditors a preference. The charter gives them none. Their
authority must then be implied, either from the general scope
and objects of the incorporation; or be incident to the agents
and trustees of all monied and-other corporations, in, a case of
known and ascertained deficiency to pay its corporate debts.
If there is in the statute or common law of Maryland, or any
state in this union, such a principle, it is wholly unknown to
me. If instead of declaring a pre-existing rule, a new one is
adopted from reasons of supposed analogy, justice or inconvenience; I cannot -withhold my dissent to its adoption: for I
can perceive no reason which. permits preferences by.indi.viduals, which do not 'Instead of authorizifg, forbid the application of the rule to the trustees of the corporation: nor
can'I perceive the justice of preferring one note holder, or
one depositor to another. It would seem to me a justice unknown to the common law, to apply all the effects'of
an insolvent corporation to the debt of the government, and
strip individuals. In such a case, the rulc that equality is
equity, would seem a very appropriate one. An equal distribution of all the effects among all the creditors, would certainly not operate unjustly. I can apply no other rule to
this case, in the absence of anyprovision in the charter" or present at common law authority to the contrary.
An agreement, like the present, made by an executor or
trustee, under a deed or will, by an administrator or guardian,
would be an excess or abuse of power. Creditors excluded
by the agreement, would have their remedy on the fund. Yet,
in all these cases, the trustee has an interest in and control.over
the property entrusted to him; at least equal to that of the
bank diiectors, in and over tile effects of the corporation. If
the giving a preference taone, and excluding all other creditors,
would not be deemed a fair execution of the powers of the
former classes of trustees; it is difficult to assign, the reasons
which on settled principles of law, would confer on the trustees of a corporation, an extent of authority unknown to any
private trustees. A power given by will, deed, or assignment,

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EThe United States vs. Robertson.1

to a trustee, to sell, property to pay the debts of the party
executing it, would not be well executed by such an agreement, and bond as this: nor can it. be a compliance with the
clear direction bf the twelfth section of the charter: the express
words of it import a different meaning. The whole capital
stock, property, rights and credits of the bank are answerable
for demandd upon it. They are thus pledged alike to all.
While the demand is unsatisfied, the pledge is unredeemed, and
-directly violated; if the whole fund is appropriated to .the
demand of a favourite. It cannot be pretended, that the appropriation of the whole fund to the United States exoherates the
bank from their obligation to pay the sixty thousand dollars
due to individuals: their demands are not extinguished thereby,
but remain in full force, after all the corporate effects are disposed of. And this becomes the situation of the parties: the
private creditors have just and legal demands against the bank,
arising from a deposit of their money; the United States have
a demand of the same kind: the bank are bound to pay both,
if their property and effects are sufficient; but their effective
means fall short of either debt. The thirteenth section expressly releases the members of the company, exempts their
persons and property from all liability for the contracts and
engagements of the bank, or losses, deficiencies and failure of
the capital stock: thus making the capital- stock the only fund
for payment. Two creditors then, having debts contracted in
the same w4y, have by law a pledge of the whole estate and
effects for their security. The trustees of the fund apply the
whole to one creditor: the other receives nothing. All the
losses are thrown on him; he has a right to a judgment against
the, bank, as his debtor; but can take neither their property nor
effects, and the law prohibits him from resorting to any individual member of the company. I cannot consider this as any
thing short of a palpable perversion of the corporate powers of
the directors; by depriving innocent individuals of every possible remedy for the clearest possible right.
If it is said, that the directors are answerable individually,
to the injured creditors: that could only be on the legal result
of the acts done by them; for, if they act within their chartered
authority, they are mere agents of the bank; and as such expressly exempted from all personal responsibility. It is only

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

by an excess or abuse of their authority, that they cease to be
mgents, and act at their individual peril; and it follows, necessaily, that in so doing their acts are void as to the bank, and
cannot operate as a corporate transfer of corporate property, to
one, who is a party to an unauthorized transaction.
If the charter gives power to apply the corporate effects to
one creditor only, when it is unable to pay all, the directors
have the same power to prefer one stockholder, after the debts
are paid; and in either case might prefer themselves. Stockholders, debtors to the bank, might apply their notes to the
reimbursement of their capital paid in; throw all the losses on
those stockholders who had borrowed no money, and on whose
funds the operations of the bank had been carried on. The
directors themselves, and the preferred debtors of the corporation, would thus receive back their whole stock, whet the
creditor stockholders lose all theirs.
When the debts of a bank, due to the holders of their paper,
or their customers, 'are phid; stockholders being creditors, are
entitled to payments of their demands. The thirteenth section directs the directors to manage the funds, "for the use
and benefit of the stockholders;" and the twelfth pledges them
for all demands upon the bank. After the out of doors debts
are paid, the claims of stockholders are as sacred as those of
depositors were before payment; *andany acts of the directors,
not strictly authorized by these sections of the charter, are inoperative *and void; as well against the bank as against those
who are creditors, by holding their notes, or depositors or
stockolders.
The charter of any corporation is the only source of its powers, and the only authority by which any can be exercised: it
is opposed to all sound rules of construction, to, consider that
which confers, as merely restraining and controlling powers,
incident to the incorporation; and therefore to be construed
strictly as a limitation or exception to powers which preexisted, or neeessaiily resulted from it; as is the power to make
by-laws to sue and" be sued, &c. &c. The power to manage,
control, and dispose of the corporate property, is a special
authority given by the charter. None can be exercised
which is not explicitly granted: and it can only be exercised on
th precise subjects over which it is given, and within the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
EThe United States vs. Robertson.]

limits definitively assigned. No charter ever gave a right of
preference of -one creditor of -the corporation to the exclusion
of all others; none ever authorized a transfer of 'all its property, as this assignment" does: and the'e who claim a right
under it are bound to show, affirmatively, the authority of
the directors to do so by the terms of the charter. The injured areditors are not bound to show a negative of the power
by any restrictions or prohibitions. It is an universal principle, that he who claims under a special authority must show its
existence and lawful exercise: to throw the burthen of proof
on the party whose rights will be destroyed by its abuse,
would be the utter reversal of every rule which governs the
execution of powers. The charter expressly pledges the
whole property of the bank to the payment of the demands
upon it. The creditor who claims the whole, by. the act of
the directors, the agents of the bank, and the trustees for all
creditors and stockholders; must, esperially when plaintiff,
clearly make out their power to give him the preference.
The absence of a restriction is no evidence of the grant of the
power. The general pledge for all demands can only be dispensed with' by express power to transfer that pledge to the
satisfaction of one, by withdrawing it from all others. This
rule clearly results from the cases before cited; and is clearly
established in those which follow. An act of parliament authorized the directors of an incorporated company, in order
to raise money by loan and secure its repayment, to give a
mortgage of their tolls: it was held not to empower them to
mortgage their toll houses; and they are not estopped by
their deed from denying their power. 2 D.osand 1 . 171.
Where a mortgage was given pursuant to a similar'act of
parliament, in order to -secure their loans to one creditor of
the-company, contrary to the provisions of the act prohibiting
a preference; it was declared that he was a bailee for all others
who loaned their' money under the. authority of the act, that
they should receive their due proportion. Banks vs. Booth,
2 Bus. and Pull, 222. Where tolls were granted to a company, to reimburse them for moiey subscribed to a canal, they
cannot diminish their rate, or make their rate unequal, by givw
ing a preference to one person, using it for transportation, over

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

another (Lees vs. Manchester Canal, 11 East, 656): or reduce
tolls at one gate and not at all. King vs. Bury, 4 Barn. and
Cress. 361.
The principle of these cases applies to this; the second
is much stronger. The thing mortgaged was only the profits;
the property from which they were to accrue remained in
fee to the company, subject to the payment of the loan.
The preference given by a mortgage to one lender, was only
as to the time of payment; and did not diminish the security of the lenders. Both cases show the great strictness in
which the powers of a corporation must be exercised. The
case of canal tolls seems conclusive; so far as any decision of
the court of king's bench can be, to show that an agreement to
give a customer a preference in a reduced rate of toll is void,
as an excess of the corporate powers of the directors. An
agreement to transfer the whole property of the corporation to
ohe creditor, or stockholder, would not have been enforced in
Westminster Hall.
ccNo argument drawn from convenience can enlarge the
powers of a corporation." 4 Peters, 169. "cA general authority in the charter, that the directors shall'have power to do
whatever shall appear to them necessary and proper to be done,
for the well ordering of the interest of the proprietors, not
-contrary to the laws of the state;" was not intended to give
unlimited power: but the exercise of a discretion, within the
scope of the authority conferred. 4 Peters, 171. Such words
are restricted by the other provisions of the charter. 4 Peters, 171.
Construing the one to the Bank of Somerset, by rules so well
settled, I cannot consider the agreement in question to be within
the legitimate powers of the directors. In the case of She v,.
Bloom, 19 Johns. Rep. 456, 477, the court of errors decided,
with only one senator dissenting, that a resolution of the board
of directors of a manufacturing company, giving the stockholders the privilege of forfeiting their shares on paying thirty
per cent, "was utterly inoperative against the fundamental
principles of law and equity; legally fraudulent, and.therefore
void and inoperative," because a debt due to an only creditor
would have been only partially paid, by depriving him of his
only means of satisfaction by a resort to the stockholders

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

rateably until his debt was'paid. The agreement in this case.
produced a worse effect, as it cut off a class of creditors to the
amount of sixty thousand dollars from the hope of a dividend.
If the directors have this power of preference among the
holders of their notes, depositors and stockholders, it must be
as incidental, not only to all bankinig, but other insolvent corporations; if incidental to corporate trustees, it must be applied
to those who act under individual authority to hold: the trust
fund answerable for demands or debts due by the person giving
the directions to manage and dispose of it, for his use and benefit. I must dissent from the adoption of these principles;
which my judgment tells me forms no part of the common
law.
If this was the case of a bank, solvent but embarrassed, requiring only time to wind up their conchrns, and the preference
given to the United States was only as to time, the question
would assume but little importance; but in this case the insolvency was apparent on the statement of the general account of
the bank. There could have been no possible hope of retrieving its affairs, with debts to the amount of one hundred and
thirty thousand dollars, with not one dollar in their vaults, and
air admitted deficit of twenty-one thousand dollars. It is evident that the continuance of their corporate functions, after
May 1820, was not to carry on banking operations; for they
had no means whatever to do it. The only possible object was
to collect from the wreck what could be saved. The preference therefore given to-the United States, could operate-in no
other manner than as a final extinction of all hope to the private depositors and note holders, by throwing on them alone
the loss arising from the deficiency of the funds. This, I
think, was wholly unauthorized by the charter, and directly
opposed to its spirit and meaning; that it was an abuse of their
trust, which a courtof law would not enforce, and equity would
restrain. Whenever a court of chancery interferes in cases
of trusts, they.make no discriminatioil between individuals
and a corporation; "a corporation being a trustee, is in this
court the same as an individual." 2 Ves. Jun.,46, 47. 14
Ves. 252, 253. If they misapply trust revenues, and by misbehaviour are unable to pay moneys due by them, chancery
will take the estate out of their hands 7 Brown's P. Cas.
VOL. V -4

K

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States vs. Robertson.]

235, Coventry Case. So if they mis-spend or misapply trust
money, 2 Durn. and East, 200, 204; or as trustees, having the
management of a productive fund abuse their trust, I4 Ves.
Jun. 252, 253; pledge corporate property for purposes not corporate, 1 Ves. and Beam. 242: deprive by a by-htw one
member of the company of his -share of the profits, 1 Ves.
Jun. 316, 322 (where the chancellor examines fully the jurisdiction of the court over corporate trusts): or if the twelve
jurymen of a. manor court should make a by-law, that the
next year's profits should be divided among themselves exclusively, 17 Ves. Jun. 321.
Thus believing that where property is devised or assigned
to trustees to pay debts, the law of all courts- is'perfectly well
settled that the trustee has no power to pay one in exclusion
of another creditor, wher6 the fund is not sufficiertto pay all:
finding that by the best established principles of 'courts of
chancery, corporate trusts are within their jurisdiction, and
to be exercised by the same rules which control the execution
of individual trusts: seeing no authority in the charter for the
directors of this bank to make the agreement which is the
subject of this suit: and utterly unable to discriminate between
the powers and duties of a private or corporate trustee: I n ust,
though standing alone, record my decided dissent from the
doctrine settled by the decision of the court in this case.
Though this point has not been made by counsel, nor noticed
in the opinion of the court, it necessarily arises on the record:
it enters into the very vitals of the cause: its merits cannot be
settled without a direct decision upon it: and thinking that
the affirmance of the agreement to appropriate the whole
effects of the bank exclusively to the United States, establishes,
by the high authority of this court, a general principle, applil.cable to all corporations, all trustees, private or corporate; extending to creditors and stockholders, equally novel and alarming: it is my duty to notice and examine the question with
the deliberation and research peculiarly necessary from its
intrinsic importance, and the circumstances under which it
arose and was considered: it is equally my duty to express the
results of my judgment.

