JANUARY TERM 1831.

BERNARD G. FARRAR AND JOSEPH C. BROWN,
IN ERROR vs. THE UIITED STATES.

PLAINTIFFS

r. and B. were sureties in a bond for thirty thousand dollars, given to the United
Slates as sureties for one Rector, described in the bond as "surveyor of the

public Lhnds in the state oiIllinois and Missouri, and the terilory of Aikansas."
Upon looking into all the laws on this subject, it can hardly be doubted that
this officer was intended to be included in the provisions of the act of congress

of Mlay 3, 1S22, requiring Fecurity of the ssnrveyor general. Literally, there
was at that time provision made under the laws for only one surveyor-teneral;
but it isabundantly evident that tipe officer who gave this bond was intended
to be included in tte provisions of that act under the description ofasurveyor
geneial. The indiscriminate use of this appellation in the previous and subsequent legi-lation of congress on this object, will lead to this conclusion.
The surveyors of public lands are disburs~iugoffeers, under the provisions of the
act of congress.
The defendants in the court below pleaded performance, and the plaintiffs alleged, as the breach, that at the little of the execution of the bond there were
in the hands of Rector, as suveyor, to be applied and disbursed by him in the
dischiarge of the duties of his office, for the use and benefit of the United
States, divers suns of money, amounting, &c., and that the said Rector had
not applied or disbursed the same, or any part thereof, for
the use and benefit of
the United States, as in the execution of the duties of his office he ought to
have done. The jury found for the plaintiff, and assessed the damages for the
breach of the condition at forty thouand dollars, and the judgment was entered

" quod recuperet," the damages, not the debt. Thjs judgment is clearly erronebus.
It would seem, that in adopting thiq form of rendering the judgment, the court
below has been misled by the application of the 26th section of the act of 1789
to this subject. That section, if it sanctions such a judgment at all, is expressly confined to three cases, default, confession or demurrer.
The plaintiffs in error are sureties in an official bond; and it is perfectly clear, as
to them, a judgment cannot be rendered beyond the penalty, to be discharged
on payment of what is due, which of course, can only be where it is less thazr
the penally. The statute expressly requires that the surveyors of the public
lands shall give bond for fii faithful disbursement of public money, and in this
bond the words which relate to disbursemeni are omitted, and the only words
inserted are" that he shall faithfully discharge the duties of his office." The
court feel no difficulty In maintaining,,hat where the conditions are cumula.
tive, thb omission of one conditiof cannot invalidate the bond po far as the
otheropbrates to bind the party.
Rector was commissioned surveyor of thWepublic lands on the 13th June 1823,
and the bond bears date the 17th August 1823. Between the third of March
and the 4th of Junq. in the same year, there had been paid to Rector from the
treasury, the sum of money found by the jury, and thus it was paid to him be
fore the date of his commission, and before the date of the bond. By the
court. For any sum paid to Rector prior to the execution of the bond,

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrar and Brown -Ds. The United States.]
there is but one ground on whicht the sureties could be held answerable to the
United States, and that is on thv' assumption that he still held the money in
bank or otherwise. If still in his hands, he was up to that time bailee to the
government; but upon the contrary hypothesis, he bad become a debtor or defaulter to the government, and his offence was already consummated. If intended to cover past dereliction, the bond should have been made retrospective
in its language. The sureties have not undertaken against Ifis past misconduct. They ought therefore to have been let in to proof of the actual state 6f
facts so vitally important to their defence; and whether paid away in violation
of the trust reposed in him; if paid away, he no longer stood in the relation
of bailee.
Such a case was not one to which the act applies which requires the submission of accounts to the treasury before discounts can be given in evidence;
since this defence goes not tQ discharg6 a liability incurred, but to negative itV
ever existing.

ERROR to the district court of the United States for the
district of Missouri.
This was an action of debt, brought by the United States in
the district court of the United States for the district of Missouri; against Berhard G. Farrar, Joseph C. Brown, and
others, upon a bond dated the 7th day of August 182S in
the penal sum of thirty thousand dollars, conditioned that
"whereas the president of the United States had, pursuant to
law, appointed William Rector surveyor of the public lands in
,the state of Illinois and Missouri, and in the territory of Arkansas; now, therefore, if the said William Rector shall faithfully execute and discharge the duties of his office, then the
obligation to be void."
The defendanis pleaded that William Rector had performed
his duties as surveyor.
The breach assigned in the replication is, that at the time
of the execution of the bond, "there were in the hands of the
said William Rector, as such surveyor, to be by him, in the
discharge of the duties of his office, applied and disbursed for
the use and benefit of the plaintiffs, divers sums of money,
amounting in the whole to a large sum of money, to wit:
the sum of forty-four thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars and thirty-eight cents; and that the said William Rector hath not applied and disbursed the same, or any part thereof, for the use and benefit of the plaintiffs, as in the execution
of the-duties of his said office he ought to have done."
Upon this plea issue was taken, and under the instructions of
the court the jury found the issue for the plaintiffs below, and

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

assessed the damages at forty thousand four hundred and fiftysix dollars and twenty cents; and judgment was rendered for
that sum in damages.
At the irial the plaintiffs produced and read in.evidence,
a duly certified copy of this bond, and a transcript from the
books and proceedings of the treasury, certified by the register of the treasury, and authenticated under the seal of the department. The certificate so annexed, was in the following
words:
I Joseph Nourse, register of the treasury of the United
States, do certify that the foregoing report and statement, No.
47, 798, of the account of William Rector, late surveyor of
public land in the state of Illinois and Missouri, and the territory of Arkansas, are true copies of the originals on file in this
office."
The defendants objected to the reading of this evidence, and
the court overruled the objection. The defendants then offered competent evidence to prove that Rector, before the execution of the bond declared on, had expended for his own private use all the money charged to have been received by him
from the United States, which proof the court refused, to admit. The defendants then offered to prove that Rector, before
the execution of the bond, had expetded thirty-two-thousand
dollars of the balance appearing against him in-the account
given in evidence, in legal payments to deputy surveyors; but
the court refused to admit, the evidence, because no claim for
credits on account of said payments, oriany of them, had been
made at the treasury department.
They also gave in evidence a letter from John M'Lean, commissioner of the land office, to William Rector, dated 13th of
June 1823, as, follows: "Enclosed yofi have a dommission from the" president of
the United States, appointing you, by and -with the advice
and consent of the senate, surveyor of the public lands. in the
states of Illinois and Missouri, and in the territory of Arkansas, for the term of four years from the date thereof, the 20th
of February 1823. You'will please to qualify'yourself by taking an oath to support the constitution of the United States,
and by entering into bond with obe or more good securities,
in the sum of thirty thousand'dollars; the securities to be ap-

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

proved by the United States district judge or attorney, whose
certificate must be endorsed on the bond, a form of which is
enclosed. The bond and oath to be sent to this office."
As has been stated, the bond sued on is dated on the 7th of
August 1823, and it appeared by Rector's account with the
government, -exhibited in- the bill of exceptions, that the money now sought to be recovered of the sureties was entrusted
to Rector at various times, from the 3d of March to the 41
of June, inclusive, of the same year.
The defendants below prayed the court to instruct the jury
that "if they find from the evidence that William Rector, at
the time the money with which he is charged was received,
had not received a commission, as surveyor of the public lands
in the state of Illinois and Missouri, and the territory of Arkansas, the present defendants are not liable to this action, upon
the breach assigned;" which instruction the court refused to
give: but instructed the jury, "that all moneys which had
been received by the said William. Rector, as surveyor of the
public lands in the state of Illinois and Missouri, and territory
of Arkansas, p rior to the execution of the writing obliatory
declared on, and which 'had not been duly disbursed by him
in the discharge of the duties of his office, or paid back to the
government, -would be considered in his hands, in the sense
of the issue joined between the parties in this case; and that
whether the, moneys so received were received between the
date of his appointment and the time when the commission
came to his hands, or after the last mentioned time, -was ihLmaterial; and whether he had given bond and taken the oath
of office, before the receipt of the money, as aforesaid, was
equally immaterial." And further instructed the jury, "cthat
the transcript aforesaid might be received by them as evidence
that the money charged in the account had been received by
him, as surveyor as aforesaid, and was evidence that there
were moneys in his hands, at the date of the said writing ob.
ligatory, as stated in the account contained in the said transcript, to be disbursed in the due discharge and execution of the
duties of his office, or..accounted for' to the government, as
surveyor as aforesaid: subject, hdwever, to be impeached by
evidence on the part, of 'the defendants. That the letters
testamentary and of administration, in evidence in the present

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The"United States.]
case, on the part of the defendants, entitle them to the benefit
of a credit for the amount of the items which appears by the
account to have been suspended, for want of proof of the executorship of William Rector, and the want of proof that letters of administration had been granted to Thomas C. Rector,
against the balance appearing on the accounts."
The defendants then moved the court to instruct the jury,
"that upon the whole evidence the plaintiff couid: not recover," which instruction was refused.
The defendants, by.their counsel, moved the court for anew
trial; for a repleader; in arrest of judgment; and for judgment
for the defendants; non obstante veredicto; all which motions

were overruled.

They then prosecuted this writ of error.

The case was argued by Mr Geyer and Mr Benton, for the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr Berrien, attorney general, for
the United States.
For the plaintiff in error it was contended:
1. That thejudgmentis erroneous.
2. That the act of congress requiring surveyors general to
give bond and security, does not apply to Rector; who was not
a surveyor general.
3. That the bond sued upon is not such a one as the act of
congress prescribes.
4. That it was no part of the duties of the office filled by
Rector, to disburse moneys.
5. That the money alleged to have been put into his hands
was before he had been commissioned, and before the bond in
question was given.
6. That the treasury transcript of Rector's account admitted
on the trial, was not in this case evidence under any act of
congress.

7. That the appellahts had a right to have proved that Rec-

tor had applied the money put into his hands to the public use.
8. That the court below erred upon all these points, as set
forth in the record and bill of exceptions; and also erred in refusing a new trial, and overruling the motion in arrest of judgment.
Mr Geyer and Mr Benton, for the plaintiffs in error, argued
that this was an action of debt on a penal bond, judgment has

VOL. V.-2 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrarand Brown vs. The United States.]

been rendered in damages for an amount exceeding the penalty, and although the excess may be corrected by a remittitur;
there is error in the form of the judgment, which the statute
referred to (authorizing breaches to be assigned and damages
assessed) does not cure: that statute expressly declares that the
judgment is to be entered as theretofore had been usually done.
A surveyor like Rector was not bound to give a bond with
security. Land Laws, 698, 818. Acts of copigress, passed 6th
February 1806, 7th May 1822. He was a subordinate officer, and the law applies only to the surveyor general; and he
only is required to give a bond: nor was it a part of the duty
of this officer to disburse public money. It not being a part
of the regular duties of this inferior officer to receive and pay
the public funds, his sureties are not answerable for any violation of a trust illegally or without authority cast upon him.
Unless the bond sued on was authorized by some act of congress, it is not obligatory. Although the power of making contracts is inherent in every sovereignty, and may be exercised
in every government which has a constituted agent authorized
to exert that power, and an existing code of laws ascertaining
the obligation of such contracts; yet the United States not
having by the constitution of their government committed
the exercise of this attribute of sovereignty to any officer or
agent. it cannot be exercised in the absence of any expression
of the legislative rule,
The common law of England cannot be referred to, for the
purpose of ascertaining the powers, or measuring the capacity
of this government or its agents. The United States recognize
no common law. To make a valid contract, the party must
not only have a capacity to contract, but the means of exercising that capacity by expressing their assent to its stipulations.
The power of this government to make contracts can only be
exercised by an agent defegated for that purpose; though inherent, it remains dormant until it is called into action by law.
It has been contended that this portion of sovereignty has
been delegated to the executive. 'This proposition is inadmissible. It accords to the president, as apart of his constitutional
power, a right to contract in the name and to pledge the faith of
the nation in any manner, for any purpose, and to an indefinite
extent in the absence of all law. To this extent"is the power
claimed. The authority to make one contract in the absence of

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

law, can only be defended by the assertion of the general right
to make any contract whatever. This power is said to have
been delegated to the president in that clause of the constitution which declares that "6he shall take care that the law be
faithfully executed:"-but it is submitted, that before he can
execute a law of the union, it must have been enacted by the
legislature; he cannot in the absence of law exercise the power
of making contracts, and much less, as in this case, against the
expression of the legislative will.
Again, a contract can have no validity in a legal sense, unless there be a law to ascertain and fix its obligation. If it be
true that this government has no common law, nor any general statute law defining the obligation of contracts with the
government; it follows, that every such contract must derive
its obligation by an act authorizing it, or it has no obligation.
We maintain, therefore, that no contract with the United
States can be valid, which is not previously authorized by an
act of congress appointing an -agent to express the assent of
the government, and referring the contract, when made, expressly, or by implication, to some law to govern its obligation.
But the power of Making contracts thus admitted to be inherent in the government, whatever may be its incidents, is
subject to be controlled, modified and regulated by the legislature of the union. They have, in the act of 1822 under considjeration, exercised this controlling power; they have created
an agent to take bonds of surveyors, and have prescribed the'
very terms in which it shall be drawn; by the terms of art
employed, and the form of the instrument to be executed, they
refer to the law of its obligation. This expression of the legislative will cannot lawfully be departed from; it excludes the
idea that any other officer than the secretary of the treasury
should act in behalf of the United States, or that any other
contract than that prescribed, should be entered into in the
particular ease. If the act has any force as a law, it narrows
the general p~wer to contract; and implies a di:sent.on the
part of the government, that any other than the bond prescribed should be taken. Any other construction of this act would
deny its force as a law, by allowing a discretion in the executive officers to exercise their pleasure, notwithstanding the expression of the sovereign will. This bond -not being in con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

formity with the act, is' not only taken without authority, but
against law.
The surveyor of the public lands for the states of Illinois
and Missouri, and territory of Arkansas, was not by law a
disbursing officer; consequently the breach assigned is not
within the condition of the bond. Not one of the several
acts of congress, defining the powers and duties of this officer, make it his 'duty to receive or disburse money; his
salary and fees are fixed by law; he is no where authorized
to recei e or pay out money; he receives no commission
for any such service, nor is he authorized or -required to
do any act rendering it -necessary that he should disburse
money; nor do any regulations of the department appear
to have been before the jury, by which it became his duty
to act as a disbursing officer. The legislature expressly required a conditior for the faithful disbursement of moneys to
be inserted in the bond; as well as the condition for the faithful performance of the duties of the officer. The bond sued od
does not contain'the first condition. The legislature did not
suppose that the last would include the first, or they would not
have required the double condition. The words in the bond
are not more comprehensive than the last condition required
by the law. The first condition being omitted, the other cannot now by any fair construction be held to comprehend both.
The plaintiffs in error cannot be held liable for moneys received by their principal, before the date of their bond; even
if its obligation is admitted, and Rector be a disbursing officer.
The condition of the bond is prospective, and the act of congress of 1822 declares that the bond shall be given before the
surveyor shall enter upon the duties of his office. No money
could lawfully be placed in his hands before the date of tie
bond; in the sense of the issue, he could not have received
the money as such surveyor, &c., until he was authorized;
certainly not while he was forbidden to act. Until the 7th August he was a debtor of the United States, not an officer holding their money according to law. The credit had been given'
on his individual responsibility; and the subsequent execution
of the bond, which is prospective, and provides for the faithful performance of future official duties, cannot be converted
into a security for a pre-existing private debt, to legalize the

JANUARY TERM 1891.
[Farrar and Brown v. The United States.]

unlawful acts of the treasury officers, and convert the, past
conduct of Rector into a breach of the bond the moment it
was signed.
The treasury transcript of Rector's account was improperly
admitted in evidence. The account should contain every item
of charge and discharge, so "that.the party should have full
hotice of every part of the claim.
Revenue officers, or officers accountable for public money,
are those against whom the transcripts from the treasury are
evidence. The provisions of the law do not apply to sureties;
as to them, as they cannot be supposed to be cognizant of the
accounts of their principal, -there should be the usual mode of
proof, and they should have all the means of defence which
are known to the law.
A contrary principle is pregnant with injustice as to the
sureties: no notice is given to them of the settlement of the account, and they will be subjected to charges which they had
no opportunity to repel or disprove. They cannot make
the affidavit which the law demands to enable them to resist,
on the trial, the claims of the United States; or to maintain the
right of their principal to credits which have been withheld
by th6 treasury department.
The first item in the account is for a balance of fourteen
thousand dollars, ascertained on some previous settlement before the 3a'March 1823; consequently before the date of the
bond; a default ascertained, for yhich these securities cannot
be held liable. This evidence was not only improperly admitted, but the court instructed the jury that the whole amount
of the account, including this item, must be presumed to have
been in Rector's hands at the date of the bond: assuredly a default (of which the ascertainment of a balance is evidence),
happening before the date of the bond, cannot be charged on
the sureties.
The court erred in rejecting the evidence offered by the defendants below. The court Pres-uzedthatthe money received
by Rector before the 4th June, remained in his hands on the
7th August 1823. The defendants ought to have been allowed to rebut this presumption, by proving the facts to show
that what had been placed in his hands on his individual responsibility, and against law, had been wasted or disbursed

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrarand Brown vs. The United States.]

lawfully or unlawfully before he became entitled to have any
money in his official character; and that the default had actually happened before thp date of the bond. The evidence
was not offered for the purpose of establishing credits; but to
show that the defendants ought never to have been debited:
that the money had passed out of Rector's hands before, nd
consequently was not in his hands on the 7th August 1823.
The judgment ought to have been arrested. The breach
assigned, and the facts found and admitted do not amount to
a breach of the bond. Money is alleged by the plaintiff to
have been in Rector's hdnds on the 7th of August 1823, to be
applied and disbursed in the discharge of the duties of his
office, and that he neither disbursed or accounted for it. It is
not averred, and consequently neither found by the jury or
admitted by the pleadings, that there ever was occasion to disburse money, or that Rector ever was required to account. If
there was any money in his hands, in his official character,
he had a right to retain it until demands which he was
bound to pay were presented, or the government required him
to account for it. The facts alleged in the replication were
true the moment before the execution of the bond; and the
very moment it was signed. In fact, the court -so instructed
the jury. The substance of the instruction given is, that the
money must be presumed to have been in Rector's hands undisbursed and unaccounted for on the 7th of August. These
sureties are then held liable, because the money committed to
their principal remained after the execution of the bond in the
very condition in which it was before, without the averment
or proof of 'ny duty requiring a change of that condition.
Mr Berrien, attorney general, for the United States.
This is an action of debt for the performance of covenants.
The principal in the bond was a surveyor of public lands,
bound to perform certain duties under the laws of the United
States, and by virtue of his commission. The judgment must
therefore be in damages; being for the amount which by the
breach of the obligations of the principal was due to the
United States. If the judgment is beyond the penalty of the
bond, the difference may be, and will be released. This may
be done in court, 2 Peters, 327.

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Farrarand Brown vs. The United- States.]

A bond voluntarily given to the United States by a public
officer is good, although no law requires that such bond shall
be executed. The absence of authority to take such a bond
does not make the condition illegal.
The cases establish the following principles:
1. That a bord given by or to a public officer, or to the government, is not invalid merely because there is no law which
specifically authorizesIhe one to demaAd or requires the other
to give it. That it is only Void where the condition is
against law requiring. 1. Something to be done which is
malum in se or malum prohibitum. 2. The omission of a
duty. 3. The encouragement of crimes or'misdemeanours.
2. That as the statute which authorizes a bond to be taken
mayhave specified the terms of the condition; it does not therefore render void a bond voluntarily given, although the condition be variant from that prescribed by the statute.
3. That a bond is not less voluntary, because it has been required by a public officer; if the condition be not contrary to
law. Cited, Mitchell vs. Reynolds, 1 P. Wins. 181. 2 Strang.
745, 1137. 2 Ld. Raym. 1459, 1327. 6 Term Reports 588.
2 Dall. 118. 6 Binney, 292. 5 Mass. Rep. 314. 12 Mass.
Rep. 367. Post Master General vs. Earlyj 12 Wheat. 136.
9 Cranch, 28. 1 Cranch, 137.
The United States may be endorsees of a bill of exchange,
and sue as such, 3 Wheat. 172. If they may do this, on
the same principles they may become thfe assignees of a bond;
ermay be the obligees of a bond, in the same manner as an individual, and with all the rights and privileges of such an assignee or obligee:
The government of the United States have always acted on
these principles. Where acts of congress have directed bonds.
to be given, without saying to whom, they are taken to the
United States. If the United States may take a bond, it must
be directed by the executive. It is a part of his constitutional
power under which he is to see that the laws are executed, to
designate the manner and the form to be employed; and this
in any way not forbidden by law. The president appoints
officers to execute the laws; and if in his opinion the most appropriate means to secure their execution by those so 4ppointed is by requiring bonds for the performance of the duties entrusted to them, lie may require them.

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

The bond then on which this suit has been brought must be
considered as having been taken under the direction of the
president of the United States, acting under the constitution.
The disbursement of the public money was a part of the
duty of the surveyor; it was necessarily involved in the performance of the trust delegated to him. He must have had
assistants, and they were to be paid. They were to be provisioned, and those-supplies could only be procured by the
paymeit of money. His office was therefore one peculiarly
requiring a bond, with security.
The office of surveyor of the public lands, which was held
by Rector, was authorized by law. The provisions of the land
laws are not confined to the surveyor-general, but the.legislation of congress applies to those who were employed to perform the duties of making surveys of the public lands, and
these persons are in the acts of congress, recognized as surveyors general.
The treasury transcript is evidence, although no notice was
given to the sureties; 9 Wheat 651: and the transcript was
made out according to the law of 1796; Ingersoll's Digest,
714; and to the forms which have been constantly pursued at
the treasury.
If the transcript was evidence, no payments could have
been shown on the trial, 'but those which had been previously
submitted to the accounting officers of the treasury. In this
there is no difference between the principal debtor to the
United States and his sureties. 6 Wheat. 135. 9 Cranch, 212.
If Rector was an officer within the meaning of the laws which
make the transcript evidence, it was properly admitted by the
court. The giving a bond and taking the oath of office was
not necessary to authorize him to enter on the duties of the
office.
By the settlement it does not appear that he was in default
at the date of the bond, or until 1824. Conceding that the
securities are not bound for the acts of Rector before the date
of the bond, August 1,823, yet the duty of the principal to pay
continued afterwards; and unless the balance which was afterwards ascertained to be due was paid, they~are liable. Tha
default of Rector did not occur until he was called upozi tQ

JANUARY TERM 131.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

account, and this was after the execution of the bond in 1824.
The case of The United States vs. Giles, 9 Cranch, 212; 3
Peters's Cond. Rep. 377, was cited. and commented upon.
Mr Justice JoHrNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was a suit instituted below, against the.plaintiffs here,
to recover a debt of thirty thousand dollars, for which they
had become bound to the United States, as .sureties for one
Rector; who is described in the bond as "6surveyor of the
public lands in the state of Illinois and Missouri, and-the territory of Arkansas." The plea was performance, and the
breach alleged in the replication is in these words: "cthat at
the time of the execution of the bond, there were in the hands
of the said William Rector, as such surveyor, to be by him,
in the discharge of the duties of his office, applied and disbursed for the use and benefit of the plaintiffs, divers sums of
money, amounting, &c., and that the said William Rector hath
not applied and disbursed the same money, or any part thereof, for the use and benefit of the plaintiffs, asin the execution
of the duties of his said office he o1ight to have done."
On this plea issue was taken, and at the trial a bill of exceptions was taken to sundry instructions of the court,- given or
refused, which will .be considered in their proper place. Two
questions of a more general character must first be disposed of.
The first arises on the form of'the judgment, the jury having found for the plaintiffs below, on the breach assigned, assess
the damases for breach of the condition at forty-one -thousand dollars; and thejudgment rendered is - quod recuperet,"
the damages, not the debt aforesaid. The parties, plaintiffs
in error, are the sureties, and it is perfectly clear that as to
them ajudgment cannot be rendered beyond the penalty, to be
discharged on payment of what is actually due; which of course
can only be where it is a sum less than the penalty. It is
proposed on behalf of the United States to release the surplus,
and such is their right; but this still leaves the form of the
judgment uncured and unamended..
It would seem, that in adopting this form of rendering judgment, the court below has been misled by the application of
the 26th gection of the act of 1789 to this subject. If so, it is
a clear misapprehension; since that section, if it sanctions such
VoL. V.-2 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrar and Brown vs. Tie United States.]

ajudgment at all, is expressly confined to three cases: default,
confession, or demurrer; with neither of which is the present
case affected.
There is -nodoubt, then, that the judgment must be reversed
on this ground; but as other points, as well as those made in
the bill of exceptions, might again embarrass the cause in the
court below, and would most probably bring it backagain
here; it becomes necessary to consider those points.
TJie second preliminary point alluded to is, whether the
bond was not taken without law, or contrary to law, so as to
be illegal and invalid. This turns on the official character
assigned to Rector in the bond, or on that in which in fact he
is to be regarded in law. He is described as "surveyor of
public land" in certain districts, not as surveyor general. And
such in fact was his literal character, for the office of-surveyor
general still exists, nominally unique, although a large proportion of his powers and duties have been transferred to the
surveyors of public lands in certain districts, subsequently detached from the region over which his powers were originally
extended.
In deciding on this point three questions are to be considered; first, whether he was bound to give bond at all; secondly,
whether the words of the condition embrace the duties of a disbursing officer; and thirdly, whether those-duties were incident
to his office.
Upon looking through all the laws passed upon this subject, it can hardly be doubted that this officer was intended to
be included in the provision of the act of May 7th, 1822, requiring security of the surveyor general. Literally, there was
at that time provision made under the laws for only one surveyor general; but it is abundantly evident that the officer
who gave this bond was intended to be included in the provisions of that act, under the description of a surveyor general.
The indiscriminate use of this appellation in the previous and
subsequent legislation of congress ofi" the subject, will lead us
to this conclusion.
Until the passing of the act of February 28th, 1806, all the
surveying for the United States was carried on under the provisions-of the act of May 18th, 1796, as amended by the act
of May 10th, 1800; and under the control and superintendance of the surveyor genei-al. In the year 1806, after the

JANUARY TERM 1831.
rFarrarand.Brown vs. The United States.]

purchase of Louisiana, the powers of that officer were extended to the country newly acquired, and he was enjoined to ap'point a sufficient number of skilful surveyors as deputies, one'
of whom, to be appointed with the approbation of the secretary of the treasury, was to assume the character of principal
deputy, and to exercise over the co-deputies the general power vested in and exercised previously by the surveyor general.
The subordinate character of all these officers was distinctly
marked by that act; and yet we find that in the act of March
3d, 1807, in the second section of the act, the epithet of surveyor general is expressly applied to that individual of them
who hould have been employed in surveying the public
lands south of the Tennessee, (4 L. U. S. 111). Yet at a subsequent dty, to wit, March 3d, 1815, (4 L. U. S. 834), we find
the same officer designated generally as a surveyor of that district of country. So also, when the act of April 29th, 1816,
was passed, which abolished the appointment of these deputies, and conferred the appointment of their present substitutes
upon the president, the latter are simply designated as a surveyor, and not surveyor general. Yet when the act of May
7th, 1822, is passed, requiring bond to be given by these officers, it is expressed altogether in the plural number, as recognizin the existence of more than one surveyor general.
There were then no other officers in existence, besides the
actual surveyor general, who could come within the literal
enactments of that statute; unless we incl'Ae a surveypr appointed under the provisions of the act of April 29th, 1816.
That is the present obligor. And if further confirmation be
required to establish Ehe necessary extension of the provisions of that law to the present cause, we have it in the act of
*May26th, 1824, inthe second section of that act; the language
of which expressly recognizes the existence of more than one
surveyor general. It is clear then- that from the time that
the appointment of deputies by the surveyor general was
superseded by the appointment of surveyors by the treasury
department, the independent character in which those officers
then acted, identified them with the surveyor general, so far
as to have led to the use of language by congress, adapted to
confounding them with the surveyor general.
We therefore have no doubt that they were included in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

provisions of the act which required bonds to be taken on
their accession to office. Nor do we think that there is. any
more doubt that the law contemplates them as disbursing officers. It is express in requiring them to give bond for the
faithful disbur8ement of public money; and cui bono do
this, if they were not regarded as disbursing officers?
But the words of the statute which relate to, disbursements
are omitted from the condition of this bond) and the only
words inserted are, "that he shall faithfully discharge the duties of his office." The court feel no difficulty in maintaining
that where the conditions are cumulative, the omission of one
condition cannot invalidate the bond, so far as the other operates to bind the party. But the question is one of much more
difficulty, whether, where the law is express that the condition shall be both for the f'aithful disbursement of money, and
the general discharge of. duty, and the latter only is inserted;
the former may still be held to be comprised within the general wotds of the latter. But for the language used in the statute, the court has no doubt that the case would have been
open to proof, that the disbursement of money was one of the
known and habitual duties of the office, and included in the
general words; but whether the omission of the express words
which imposed this liability does not preclude a resort to
their restoration incidentally by proof. is a question on which
1he court have felt much difficulty, and which they will not
now decide.
The next questions to be considered are those presented by
the hill of exceptions, and of these, that which goes to the sufficiency of the certificate has already been disposed of in the
case of John Smith T. vs. The United States, ante 292;'in
which the same form of certificate was held to be a substantial
compliance with the law under which it was resorted to as
proof.
The remaining questions grow out of this state of facts.
Rector was appointed surveyor, or at least commissioned as
such, on the 13th June 1823; and this bond bears date the 7th
August 1823. Between the 3d of larch and the 4th of June
in the same year, there had been paid to him from the treasury,
the sum of money found by the jury. So that it was paid to
him before the commission, and before the bond in proof

JANUARY TERM 1831.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

On this state of facts the bill of exceptions asserts three
grounds of defence.
1. That the sureties could not be made liable at all for the
moneyso paid.
2. That if at all, they ought to be letinto proof that Rector
had appropriated the money to his own use before the date of
the bond. Or,
3. That he had paid it, or enough of it to cover the penalty
of the bond to the use of the United States, before they became bound for him.
On these points we feel no difficulty in affirming; th{t for
any sums paid to Rector prior to the execution of the bond,
there is but one ground on which the sureties could be held
answerable to the United States, and that is on the assumption
that he still held the money in bank or otherwise. If still in
his hands, he was, up to that time, bailee to the government;
but upon the contrary hypothesis, he had become a debtor or
defaulter to the government, and his offence was already
consummated. If intended to cover past dereliction, the
bond should have been made retrospective in its language.
The sureties have not undertaken against his pastmisconduct.
They ought therefore to have been let into proof of the actual
state of facts so vitally important to their defence; and whether paid away in violation or in execution of the trust reposed
in him, if paid away, he no longer stood in the relation of"
bailee. It was not then a case to which that act applies which
requires the submission of accounts to the,treasury before discounts can be given in evidence; since this .defence goes not.
to discharge a liability incurred, but to negative its ever existing.
In giving instructions to the.jury on these points, therefore,
the court erred, as well as in refusing to let th6 defendants
into proof, as prayed; since such testimony presents a direct
negative to the breach alleged, which is, that the obligor then
had the money in his hands.
Judgment reversed, and venire facias de novo awarded.

