SUPREME COURT

MARGARET

DICK

AND

OTHERS,

APPELLANTS V. STEPHEN

B.

BALCH AND OTHERS.
The acts of 1715 and of 1766 of Maryland, require that all conveyances of land
shall be enrolled in the records of the same county where the lands, tenements or hereditaments conveyed by such deed or conveyance do lie, or in
the provincial court, as the case may be. The courts of Maryland are understood to have decided, that copies of deeds thus enrolled may be given
in evidence.
Copies of deeds that are not required to be enrolled, cannot be admitted in
evidence; but deeds of bargain and sale are, by the laws of the state, required to be enrolled ; and, by the uniform tenor of the decisions of the
courts of the state, exemplifications of records of deeds of bargain and sale
are as good and competent evidence as the originals themselves.
A mortgage was executed and recorded in 1809, 4nd the mortgagee took no
measures to enforce the payment of the money due upon it until 1821. In
the mean time the property mortgaged was sold by the mortgagor, the mortgagee having given no notice to the purchaser of his lien. By the court.
If the mortgagee never did assert any claim, or intimate its existence
to the purchaser or her friends, he was not restrained from doing so by
having released it. But the mortgage deed was recorded, and this-is
considered in law, as notice to all the world, and dispenses with the necessity of personal notice to purchasers. A deed cannot with any propriety be
'said to be concealed, x4hich is placed upon the public record, as required by
law; nor can a previous conveyance and delivery of title deeds to a pur-.
chaser, be justly denominated collusion, because a subsequent incumbrance
is taken on the same property. Comnmon prudence would have directed the
purchaser to search the records of the county, before she paid the purchase
money. Had she done so, she would have found the deed on record. It
is not in proof that he has done any act to deceive or mislead her. He has
been merely silent respecting a deed which was recorded as the law directs.

APPEAL fron the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Washington in the district of Columbia,
In the circuit court a bill was filed to foreclose a mortgage
dated on the.4th of August 1809, and executed by John Peter
to Thomas B. Beale, to s*ecure the payment of three promissory notes for one thousand dollars each, given by the mortgagor to the mortgagee.
The original mortgage having become lost or mistaid, the
complainants, in the circuit court, gave in evidence a certified
copy thereof, taken from the land records of the county of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

Washington, in which office the said mortgage had been duly
recorded.
The premises conveyed by the mortgage were a house and
lots in Georgetown, which the said John Peter, afterwards on
the 16th of April 1810, sold and conveyed in fee to Elizabeth
Peter, who then paid six thousand five hundred dollars, the
purchase money therefor, and under whom the defendants
claim and hold the premises.
The answers of the defendants set up this title, and call upon
the complainants to prove the mortgage debt, and insist, that
at the death of the complainants' testator, there was no such
subsisting mortgage debt. That if it ever subsisted, it had
been released by the testator in his life time-and further, that
he knew of the sale to Elizabeth Peter, and suffered her to buy
and pay the purchase money in ignorance of his mortgageand that he also in his lifetime treated the debt as extinguished, and gave the defendants reason to believe that no such debt
subsisted.
The defendants, in order to prove that the mortgage debt, if
it ever existed, was released by the testator,. Thomas B. Beale,
produced an instrument, dated 27th April 1820, which was
signed and sealed by several of the creditors of John Peter,
and by Thomas B. Beale among them.
This instrument, the complainants allege in their bill, was
only to take effect in case all the creditors of John Peter should
sign it, and that all the creditors, not having signed it, the
same never took efThct.
They produced two witnesses, Francis Dodge and Clement
Smith, to which latter witness the defendants objected as incompetent from interest; who proved that they so understood
it, and that they believed it was so understood by the other
creditors, and by John Peter. They produced also a deed
fromJohn Peter to said Smith, dated April 24, 1820, referring.
to the deed of release, and in consideration of which, the said
deed of release was to be subsequently executed, which they
proved by the same witness, was never carried into full execution, but set aside and revoted by a decree of the court, on
certain chancery proceedings subsequently instituted by said
John Peter and certain of his creditors against said Smith.
They also relied on the imperfect and incomplete execution of

SUPREME COURT.
[Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

the instrument called a release, to show that it never took
effect.
The defendants produced two witnesses, John Peter, to
whom the complainants objected as incompetent from interest, and George Peter, who proved tiat they undei'stood there
was no such condition to the operation of the release-and
it was so understood (as they believed) by all the partiesand they proved it was so expressly declared and represented
by the testator, Thomas B. Beale. And they relied on the instrument itself, and the deed of trust to C. Smith, as conclusive of its intended operation-and denied that parol evidence
is admissible to contradict it. They relied also on the proof of
John Peter's having possession of the release, as showing it
was delivered and treated as the deed of the parties. They
relied also on the said Beale's statement to the persons interested in the property, of his having relinquished an old debt to
said Peter, as precluding his executors from setting up this
claim against it, even if the release had not the operation they
contend for. Also upon his suffering John Peter to have and
keep possession of the release, by which he was enabled -to
show it to the defendants as releasing the property from the
claim of this mortgage.
The circuit court gave a decree in favour of the epmplainants, from which this appeal was prosecuted.
In the opinion of this court, those facts which were particularly relied upon in the argument, are stated more at largeby
the court.
The case was argued by Mr Key, for the appellants; and
by Mr Coxe, for the appellees.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The bill filed in this case is for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
dated on the 4th of August 1809, to secure the payment of
three promissory notes, given by the mortgagor John Peter,
to the mortgagee Thomas B. Beale, the testator of the coinplainants.
The mortgaged premises were a house and several lots in
Georgetown, which the mortgagor afterwards, on the 16th of

JANUARY TE iZM 1834.
(Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

kpril 1810, sold and conveyed to Elizabeth Peter, who then
paid the purchase money. The bill is filed in 1821 against
John Peter and Elizabeth Peter. Soon after the service of
process, Elizabeth Peter departed this life, and the suit was
revived against her devisees. These defendants, in their answer, do not admit th6 mortgage, and require proof of its existence.
The proof offered by the plaintiffs is an office copy of the
deed, dnd the first question in the cause is on the admissibility
of this cppy.
The law of Maryland is the law of this part of the District
of Columbia.
The acts of 1715 ind of 1766 require that all conveyances
of land shall be enrolled in the records of the same county
where the lands, tenements or hereditaments conveyed by
such deed or conveyance:do lie, or in the provincial court, as
the case may be. The courts of Maryland are understood to
have decided, that copies of deeds thus enrolled may be given
in evidence.
In-a case reported, 6 Harris and Johnson 276, the defendant offered in evidence the- record of a deed, to the admissiori of which the plaintiff objected; but the court overruled
the objectton. A bill of exceptions was taken, and the judgment, which was in'favour of the defendant, was'carried before
the court of appeals. The counsel for the plaintiff in error
contended, that as the acts requiring the enrolment of conveyances do not say that a copy of the enrolment shall be evidence,
the general principle of law is, that the deed itself. ujiless
shown to have been lost, must be produced.
Chief Justice Buchanan, delivering the opinion of the court,
said, this case comes before us on three bills of exceptions.
The first presents the question, whether the enrolment of a
deed of bargain and sale is competent evidence of title to lands
in the trial of an action of ejectment, or whether the original
must be produced? The court before whom the cause was
tried, decided that it Was, and that the original need not be
produced; and certainly it is too late, at this day, to question
the correctness'of that decision. Copies of deeds that are not
required to be enrolled, cannot be admitted in evidence; but
deeds of bargain and sale are, by the laws of thIe state, required
VOL. VIII.-E

SUPREME COURT.
[Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

to be enrolled, and by the uniform tenor of the decisions of the
courts of the state, exemplifications of records of deeds of bargain and sale are as frood and competent evidence as the
originals themselves.
In the circuit court, the plaintiff offered testimony to account
for the'absence of the originai deed. Objections were made to
the reception and sufficiency of this testimony; but as, by the
settled law of Maryland, the copy of the deed was admissible
without proving the loss of the original, it is unnecessary to
examine the validity of these objections.
The original existence of -the mortgage being established,
we proceed to inquire into the validity of the objections raised
to its being still in force, so as to avail the plaintiffs in the circuit court. Thee objections are,
I st. That it has been released.
.2d. That the silence of the said mortgagee, during his
whole life, respecting his claim, thus concealing it from Elizabeth Peter for more than eleven years, whereby she and her
representatives have lost all possibility of recoverin.2' the purchase money from John Peter; has forfeited his right, both in
law and equity, to proceed against the mortgaged premises.
The instrument by which, as the defendants in the court
below contend, this debt was released, is dated the 27th of
April 1820. It was signed and sealed by several of the creditors of the nortgagor, and among others, by Thomas B. Beale
the mortgagee.
John Peter, who was engaged extensively in commerce, had
sustained heavy losses by fire. Several of his friends and creditors agreed to receive a conveyance of all his remaining property, to be distributed rateably among them, and to advance
him a considerable sum of money to set him up again inbusiness. The defendants in error allege, that this agreement was
on the condition, that all his creditors should sign a release of
his debts, so as to leave his future acquisitions exonerated from
their claims; and that some of his creditors refused to sign the
release, in consequence of which refusal the whole became
iuoperative.
The deed conveying his property to a trustee for the use of
his creditors, and the instrument of release, were both produced,
and appear in the record. The deed of release enumerates

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

the creditors of John Peter, some of whom have not executed
it. It is absolute on its face, and the plaintiffs in error deny
thdt it was intended to be conditional. They als ) conitenid,
that no parol evidence is admissible to vary a writ ten contract,
by introducing into it a condition which enirely chaniges its
character. The argument has turned chiefly oni the adinissibility of this testimony. The court will not inquire, whet her
the parol evidence offered in this case can be introdnced to
vary the contract, because a preliminary question arises to
which the testimony is, they think, certainly applicable. That
question is, Has the contract been executed? It is set up by
the defendants in their answer, and the general replication
puts it in issue. It was therefore incumbent on those who
sought to avail themselves of it to prove it.
Thomas Nevit, the subscribing witness to the signature of
Thomas B. Beale, has not been exuined. If this omission
can be accounted fol, inferior evidence would undoubtedly be
admissible to establish this all important fact; but the whole
of this evidence must be examlinable. The delivery itself,
and the circumstances under which it was made, are opei to
both parties. The questions whether the instrument ever
became a deed; whether it was delivered as an escrow, whose
completion depended on subsequent events, which never happened, or was a complete contract when signed by those
whose signatures are affixed to it; are entirely distinct from
the question how far a written contract may be varied by parol
evidence.
The plaintiffs in error rely on the fact, that the instrument
was left in possession of ir Peter. This circumstance is certainly entitled to consideration ; but it is not conclusive. It
is open to explanation; and all the testimony shows, that it
was placed in his hands to obtain the signature of his creditors.
Clement Smith expressly avers it.
The deposition of Mr John Peter was-taken, on the part of
the plaintiffs in error, for the purpose of showing, among other
things, that the release was unconditional. But ie is a party
to the suit on the record, and his deposition is not admissible.
The deposition of George Peter, one of the creditors of John
Peter who executed the deed of release, is also taken for the
same purpose. He was one of the devisees of Elizabeth Peter;

SUPREME COURT.
[Dick andothers v. Balch and others.]

but released his interest in the property before he gave his deposition. He also is a party on the record, and this objection
is made to his testimony.
All objections to the competency and admissibility of these
depositions, were reserved by the defendants in error, and may
be now made. They cannot therefore be read.
The defendants in error produced the record of a suit in
chancery, in which John Peter and George Peter, among
others, were plaintiffs, for the purpose of showing, that the release was not fully executed. But the devisees of Elizabeth
Peter were not parties to that suit, and cannot be affected by
it. They also produced several depositions.
Francis Dodge was one of the creditors of John Peter, but
did not execute the release. He was applied to by Mr Peter to
sign it, who stated, as well as the deponent recollects, " that if
any one of his creditors objected to sign, the whole arrangements would fail."
Clement Smith, who was trustee of the effects of John Peter
which were assigned for the benefit of his creditors, was asked,
"Was it not a part of the said scheme, that it should be inoperative and void in respect of all parties, including the said John
Peter, his friends, and releasing creditors, in case any of his
creditors should refuse, to release said John Peter from his
debts ?" He says, "I answer without hesitation, that such was
my impression. I did then, and do now, believe that it was
so understood by all the parties, who on that condition alone
signed the release." This witness signed the deed of release
as attorney for some of the releasing creditors. He alao states
several circumstances confirmatory of the opinion, that the
release was not to take effect unless signed by all the creditors
of John Peter.
The record also contains two letters, addressed while the
transaction was depending, to William Fowle & Co., who were
among his creditors.
The first is dated the 25th of April 1820. In that, speakand
ing of his friends, he says, "They have come forward
agreed to loan me a cash capital of fifteen thousand dollars ;
but on the special condition that I obtain a release from all
ny creditors, and keep my old and new business entirely separate."

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

His second letter, dated the 28th of April, expresses his regret that William Fowle & Co were not at liberty to sign the
release; repeats the idea, that his friends, wl.o had promised
him a loan of fifteen thousand dollars, had made a condition,
that he should obtain a release from all his creditors; and after
renewing his application respecting the release ft'om Fowle &
CG. adds, "every day's delay may diminish the zeal of my
friends, therefore let me hear from you by return of mail, with
an authority, I hope, to Clement Smith to release as it respects
me." Clenient Smith says that "J. Peter called on him for the
notes and funds which his friends had deposited with Smith, to
be delivered to Peter, when the condition on which they were
to be delivered should be performed. The deponent declined
complying with this request, because he understood that some
of the creditors had refused to sign the release." He left the
room, and returned in a few moments with a letter in his hand,
and said, " The business is all at an end." "Mr Fowle, or
some other person to whom lie had written, having refused to
sign or release his debt."
The letter to Mr Fowle, and that part of the deposition of
Mr Smith which has just been cited, refer particularly to the
contract for advancing mone3 to enable Mr Peter to recoimence business; but they are not without influence on the question, whether the release was completely executed. That instrument was dated on the 27th of April 1820. It purports to be
made between John Peter and his creditors, indorsers, and sureties; that is, all his creditors, &c. It states the assignment made
by Peter of all his remaining effects to Clement Smith, for their
benefit; their purpose to advance him a sum of money, that he
may again go into business ; but their unwillingness to do so, so
long as the new capital of the said J. P. may be liable to his
former debts; that they " are willing, in consideration of the
premises, to release him from all his debts and liabilities, so that
he may hold his future property and stock in trade exempt
from their respective claims." After reciting the names of the
creditors, and stating the amount of their several claims, it proceeds to say, that "in consideration of the premises, the creditors, &c., have released, &c., and do release, &c., the said
John Peter, his heirs, &c., from all their aforesaid several
..claims, &c. " The same instrument proceeds to appoint Clem-

SUPREME COURT.
[Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

ent Smith, who is a party thereto, trustee of all the estate and
effects assigned by John Peter, for their benefit.
The release is in consideration of the assignment. The
advance of money and the release are obviously parts of the
transaction, and are closely connected with each other. The
purpose intended by all those who signed the release could not
be accomplished unless it should be signed by all.
It is in evidence too, that the failure of the release prevented
the trustee from carrying the deed of assignment which constituted its consideration, into execution.
On a full consideration of these circuirstances, we are of
opinion, that the release was never fully executed, and did not
become the deed of the parties.
The plaintiffs in error also contend, that Thomas B. Beale,
by his conduct in his lifetime, forfeited his right to enforce
the payment of the mortgage debt against the s tid Elizabeth
Peter, or her representatives, The answer alleges, 1st. That
though he lived more than eleven years after the execution
of the mortgage, he never did assert any claim, or even
intimate to the said Elizabeth, or to any of her friends or advisers, the existence of such claim.
2dly. That by concealment of the said mortgage debt, lapse
of time, and collusion with the said John, in the said sale to
said Elizabeth, he and his representatives have lost all claim,
either in law or in equity.
These objections, it may be observed, cannot be connected
with the release. That bears date in 1820, and the mortgage
deed was executed in1809. If, therefore, he never did assert
any claim, or intimate its existence to the said Elizabeth or her
friends, he was not restrained from doing-so by having released
it. But'the mortgage deed was recorded, and this is considered in law, as notice to all the world, and dispenses with the
necessityof personal notice to purchasers. A deed cannot with
any propriety be said to be concealed, which is placed upon the
public record, as required by law; nor can a previous, conveyance and delivery of title deeds to a purchaser, be justly denominated collusion, because a subsequent incumbrance is
taken on the same property. Common prudence would have
directed Mrs Peter to search the records of the county, before
Phe paid the purchase money. Had she done so, she would

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Dick and others v. Balch and others.]

have found the deed to Mr Beale. It is not in proof that
he has done any act to deceive or mislead her. He has been
merely silent respecting a deed which was recorded as the law
directs.
We are opinion that there is no error in the decree of the
circuit court.
It is affirmed, with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of. the United States, for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court, that there is no error in the decree of the
said circuit court in this caus6. Whereupon, it is considered,
ordered and denreed by this court, that the decree of tie said
circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed
with costs and damages, at the rate of six per cent per annum.

