SUPREME COURT.

THOMAS JACKSON ET AL., APPELLANTS V. WILLIAM

E. AsH-

TON.
The caption of the bill was in the following terms : "Thomas Jackson, a citizen of the state of Virginia, William Goodwin Jackson and Maria Congreve
Jackson, citizens of Virginia, infants, by their father and next friend, the
said Thomas Jackson v. The Reverend William E. Ashton, a citizen of
the state of Pennsylvania. In equity." In the body of the bill it is stated
that "the .defendant is of Philadelphia."
By the court: The title or caption of the bill, is no part of the bill, and does
not remove the objection to the defects in the pleadings. The bill and
proceedings should state the citizenship of the parties, to give the court
jurisdiction of the case.
The only difficulty which could arise to the dismissal of the bill, presents
itself upon the statement, " that the defendant is of Philadelphia."
If this
were a new question, the court might decide otherwise ; but the decisions
of the court, in cases which have heretofore been before it, have been express upon the point.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for (he
Pennsylvania district.
After the argument was commenced by Mr Key for the appellant, the court stated that an objection to the jurisdiction of
this case, arose from the omission to state the citizenship of the
defendant, William E. Ashton, in the bill, as filed in the circuit court, and appearing on the printed copy of the record.
The caption of the bill was in the following terms.
" Thomas Jackson, a citizen of the state of Virginia, William Goodwin Jackson and Maria Congreve Jackson, citizens
of Virginia, infants, by their father and next friend, the said

Thomas Jackson v. The Reverend William E. Ashton, a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania. In equity."
The bill proceeds to state that the complainants and the
appellants are citizens of the state of Virginia. The only description of the defendant is, "William E. Ashton, of the city

of Philadelphia," which is in the body of the bill.
Mr Peters, for the appellee, stated, that although aware of
the objection to the jurisdiction, ini consequence of there being

an omission to state the citizenship of the appellee, yet he was

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Jackson et al.v. Ashton.J

not disposed to urge the exception. If the court could take.
jurisdiction of the case, the appellee was entirely willing; indeed, he was anxious that the court should hear and determine
the cause. He wished it to be understood that the appellee
made n objection to the court's proceeding in the case.
Mr Key contended, that the caption of the bill was part of it,
and that taken with the bill, the citizenship of the defendant
was sufficiently shown. The disposition of this court has been
manifested in many cases, to get rid of technical difficulties of
this kind.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The title or caption of the bill, is no part of tie bill, and does
not remove the objection to the defects in the pleadings. The
bill and proceedings should state the citizenship of the parties,
to give the court jurisdiction of the case.
The only difficulty which could arise to the dismissal of the
bill, presents itself upotn the statement, "that the defendant is
of Philadelphia." This, it might be answered, shews that he
is a citizen of Pennsylvania.
If this were a new question, the court might decide otherise; but the decision of the court, in cases which have heretofore been before it, has been express upon the point; and
the bill must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern
district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the said
circuit court could not entertain jurisdiction of this cause, and
that, consequently, this court has not jurisdiction in this cause,
but for the purpose of reversing the decree of the said circuit
court, entertaining said jurisdiction : whereupon, it is ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this Court, that the decree of the said
circuit court be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that
this appeal be, and the same is hereby dismissed. All of which
is hereby ordered to be certified to the said circuit court, under
the seal of this court.

