SUPREME COURT.

MORGAN BYRNE, PLArNTIFF IN ERROR V.

THE

STATE OF J.VIIS-

SOURI".

The case of Craig v. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters 410, in which it was
decided that the act of the legislature of the state of Missouri, passed 27th
July 1821, entitled an act for establishing loan offices, was repugnant to the
constitution of the United States, revised and confirmed.
The pleadings in the cause bring the question, whether the act of the state of
Missouri, by virtue of which the certificates which form the consioeration
of -the writing obligatory, on which the judgment of the state court was
rendered, be constitutional or not, directly and plainly before the court; and
the. decision of the state court was in favour of its validity. Consequently
the case is within the twenty-fifth section of the judicial act.

IN error to the supreme court for the fourth judicial district of
Norfolk in the state of Missouri.
This case was submitted to the court, by Mr Benton, for'the
defendant. No counsel appeared for the plaintiff in error.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in the supreme
court for the state of Missouri.
In 1820 an action of covenant was instituted in the circuit
court for the county of Cape Girardeau, by the state of Missouri, against Morgan Byrne, the plaintiff in error.
The declaration charges, that the defendant, on the 26th of
October 1822, executed his certain writing obligatory, by which
he promised to pay to the state of Missouri, on the 26th day of
October in the year 1823, the sum of one hundred and thirtyfive dollars, and the two per ceMIum per annum on the said
amount, it being the interest accruing on the certificates borrowed (by the said Byrne of the state), fi-om the 1st day of
October 1821, at the Jackson loan office for value; which said
sum the defendant refuses to pay, &c.
The defendant appeared and pleaded in bar of the action,
that the said state of Missouri, by an act of the legislature
thereof,,entitled an act for the establishment of loan offices,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Byrne v. The State of Missouri.]

approved by the governor of the said state on the 27th day of
June 1821, divided said state into five districts, in each of
which districts was established a loan office; and by said act
the auditor of public accounts and treasurer of said state, under
the governor thereof, were required to issue certificates signed
by the said auditor and tTeasurer to the nominal amount of
two hundred thousand dollars, of denominations not exceeding
ten dollars, nor less than fifty cents, in the following form, to
wit, "this certificate shall be receivable at the treasury, or
any of the loan offices of the state of Missouri, in discharge of
taxes or debts due to the state, for the sum of
dollars, with interest for the same, at the rate of two per centum
florn this date, the
day of
;" and that by said act
said certificates were made receivable at the treasury of said
state, and by all the tax gatherers and other :public officers in
payment of taxes, and other moneys, then due or to become due
to said state, or any county or town therein, and by. all officers,
civil and military, in said state, in discharge of salaries; and by
said act it was further made the duty of said auditor and
treasurer, according to the provisions of said act, to deliver to
the clerk of said general loan offices a proportional amount of
the certificate, by the said act required to be issued as aforesaid; and certain commissioners by said act required to be appointed, were by said act empowered to loan said certificates to
the citizens of said state residing within their respective districts, at interest not exceeding six per centum per annum
on the amount, and to secure the repayment of the said loans
by mortgages or personal security; and by said act, the salt
springs belonging to the state were to be leased out, on the condition that the lessee or lessees should receive said certificates
in payment for salt, not exceeding that which might be prescribed by law; and that the proceeds of said salt springs, the
interest accruing to the state, and all estates purchased by the
said loan offices under the provisions of said act, and all debts
then due and to become due to the said state, were by said act
pledged and made a fund for the redemption of the said certificates; and by the same act, the faith of the state was also
pledged for the same purpose. And the defendant farther
saith, &c., a large sum was deposited at the loan office at
Jackson, &c., and that lie has received from said loan office
VOL. VIII,-F

SUPREME COURT.
[Byrne v. The-State of Missouri.]

the nominal sum of one hundred and thirty-five dollars in said
certificates, for the loan.of which certificates, and no other
consideratiQan whatever, the said defendant made and executed
to said state said writing obligatory mentioned. And said defendant avers, that said loan office certificates, so loaned to
said defendant as aforesaid, were bills of credit, emitted by said
state in violation of the constitution of the United States; all
Which said defendant is ready to verify: wherefore, &c.
The plaintiff demutred generally to this plea, and the defendant joined in demurrer.
The court sustained the demurrer, and rendered judgment
for the plaintiff. This judgment was brought by writ of error
into the supreme court of the judicial district in which it was
rendered, the highest tribunal in that state which could take
cognizance of it, where it was affirmed.
The defendants have prosecuted this writ of error, under the
twenty-fifth section of the judicial act.
The pleadings in the cause bring the question, whether the
act of the state of Missouri, by virtue of which the certificates
which form the consideration of the writing obligatory, on
which the judgment of the state court was rendered, be constitutional or not, directly and plainly before the court; and the
decision of the state court was in favour of its validity. Consequently the case is within the twenty-fifth section of the
judicial act; and the only question before this court is, did the
state court err in pronouncing that judgment! Is the act in
question repugnant to, or consistent with the constitution of
the United States?
This question was ably argued, and fully considered by the
court in the case of Craig v. The State of Missouri, 4 Peters
410. In that case, a majority of the court were of opinion
that the act was repugnant to the constitution; and the judgment of the state court was reversed. That decision is expressly in point, and on its authority the judgment in this case
also must be reversed and the cause remanded, that judgment
may be rendered for the defendant in that court, the plaintiff
in error.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.

43

[Byrne v. The State of Missouri.]

record from the supreme court of the state of Missouri for the
fourth judicial district, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, this court is of opinion that there is error in
the rendition of the judgment of the said court, in this, that in
affirming the judgment rendered by the circuit court of the
county of Cape Girardeau, in the state of Missouri, that court
has given an opinion in favour of the validity of the act of the
legislature of Missouri, passed on the 27th of June 1821, entitled "an act for the establishment of loan offices," which act
is, in the opinion of this court, repugnant to the constitution of
the United States: whereupon it is considered by the court,
that the said judgment of the said supreme court of the
state of Missouri for the fourth judicial district, ought to be reversed and annulled; and the same is hereby reversed and
annulled, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions
to enter judgment in favour of the defendant to the original
action.

