SUPREME COURT

N. B. CRAIG HER COMMITTEE, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR V. THE LESSEE OF GABRIEL SAYRE AND WIFE.

SYDNEY GREGG, By

The eighth section of the statute of limitations of Pennsylvania fixes the limitation of twenty-one years as taking away the right of entry on lands: and
the ninth section 'provides, that if any person or persons, having such right
or title, he or shall be, at the time such right or title first descended or aceued, within the age of twenty-one years,' femes covert, &c., then such
Person or persons, and the heir or heirs of such person or persons shall
and may, notwithstanding the said twenty-one years be expired, bring his
or their action, or make his or their entry, &c., within ten years after attaining full age, &c. The defendant in error was born in 1791, and was
twenty-one years of age in 1812. An interest in the property, for which
this ejectment was brought, descended to her in 17P9. The title of the
plaintiff in error commenced on the 13th April 1805, under deeds adverse
to the title of the defendant in error, and all others holding possession of
the property under the same. On the 13th April 1826, twenty-one years
prescribed by the statute of limitations for a right of entry against her
possession, expired ; and the bar was complete at that time, as more than
ten years had run from the time the defendant in error became of full age.
This suit was not commenced until May 1830.
Phis court have frequently remonstrated against the practice of spreading the
charge of the judge at length upon the record, instead of the points excepted
to, as productive of no, good, but much inconvenience.
,t is an admitted prinsiple, that a court of law has concurrent jurisdiction
with a court of chancery, in cases of fraud, But when matters alleged to
be fraudulent are investigated in a court of law, it is the province of a jury
tp find the facts, and determine their character.
Fraud, it is said, will never be presumed, though it may be proved by circum
stances. Now, where an act does not necessarily import fraud ; where it
has more likely been done through a good than a bad motive, fraud should
never be'presumed.
but the grantees
Even if the grantor in deeds be justly chargeable with fraud,
1
did not participate in it; and when they xeceived their d,.s had no knowledge of it, but accepted tne same in good faith, the deeds upon their face
purporung to convey a title in fee, and showing the nature and extent of
the premises: there can be no doubt tne deeds do give colour- of title under
thestatute of limitations.

ERROR to the district court of the United States, for the
western district of Pennsylvania.
This case was stbmitted to the court upon printed argu-

JANUARY TERM' 1834.
(Gregg v. The Lessee o! Sayre and Wife.]

ments, byMr Watts for the plaintiff in erior, and Mr Fetterfor the defendants.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court. As the
decision of the court was upon the application of the statute of
-limitations of Pennsylvania only; the arguments of the counsel,
upon other points presented to the court, are omitted. Upon
the effect of the statute of limitations on the case: the counsel
for the plaintiffs in error contended, that the defendant having
shown an actual, adverse, notorious and continuous possession
of the lanl in controversy, from the year 1799, until after the
institution of this ejectment; and having also exhibited deeds of
conveyance for the same, dated the 24th of November 1804, and
the 13th of April 1805, from John Ormsby to Isaac Gregg and
Sidney his wife : the court erred in their charge to the jury,
that the defendant was not protected by the statute of limitations.
'n n

Mr Justice M'LAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
An action of ejectment was originally commenced, between the above parties in the district court, which possesses.
circuit court powers, for the western district of Pennsylvania,
and a judgment was obtained by Sayre and wife, to recover possession of certain lots of land within the original manor of
Pittsburgh. To reverse this judgment, a writ of error was prosecuted, which brings the case before this court.
On the trial in the district court, a bill of exceptions was.,
taken, out of which arise certain points that are now to be
considered and decided. The bill of exceptions reads in part,
as follows. "And the' counsel for the plaititiffs, to maintain
and prove the issue, gave in evidence, among other matters, a
deed from John Penn, Jun. and John Penn to Nathaniel Bedford, dated the 31st day of May 1786, for sixty-two acres of
land on the Monongahela river, in the fnanor of Pittsburgh,
being acknowledged on the 1st day of June 1786, in the city
of Philadelphia, and duly recorded, &c.; also an assignment,
indorsed upon said deed, of all the right, title, claim and interest of the said Nathaiiiel Bedford to the premises, to Mrs Jane
Ormsby, dated the 1st day of June 1786, and duly acknowledged, &c.; also a certificate of the recorder of the county of
Washington, dated the 15th of October 1831, that there is

SUPREME COURT.
[Gregg v.The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

no record of the transfer of the title to the premises aforesaid,
by said N. Bedford to Mrs Jane Ormsby, in the office of Wash
ingron county. It was then admitted, by the attorneys for
the parties, that the children of John and Jane Ormsby were:
Mrs Bedford, who died on the 8th of July 1790, without issue;
John Ormsby, Jun., who died in August 1795; Joseph B.
Ormsby, who died on the 20th of December 1803; Oliver
Ormsby, who'did in the year 1832; and the present defendant, Mrs Sidney Gfegg, who is the only survivor, and under
the providence of God a lunatic.
It was further admitted, that Mrs Jane Ormsby, the wife of
John Ormsby, died intestate, on the 13th day of June 1799,
and that her husband, John Ormsby, died on the 19th day of
December 1805."
The possession of Mrs Gregg, of the tA renty-five acres, and
of the eight acres and one hundred and twenty-two perches,
the upper part of the sixty-two acre tract, was then admitted
by the counsel for the defendants.
The plaintiffs further offered in evidence, a petition to the
orphan's court of the county of Allegheny, signed by 0. Ormsby and N. B. Craig, the committee of Mrs Sidney Gregg, and
filed in November term 1828.
Among other evidenace, the counsel for the defendants
proved, by the testimony of John Hutchinson, that. he had
known the family of Mr Ormsby for forty years, and lived as
a tenant under the old gentleman and his son O!iver Ormsby,
about thirty-five years, and sometimes in their families, before
old John Ormsby's death. Isaac Gregg, his son-in-law, as
early as 1799, employed hands toclear out the piece of property where the ferry house now stands; the part next the
hill being cleared, and the part next the river being in woods.
That the said Gregg employed his brother and himself, who
cut off the timber into cord wood; that Mr Gregg was cautious i. showing them the lines marked by a post on the
bank, and a butterwood tree blazed, four or five rods above the
ran that fatlls into the river, that we should not cut the timber below it, as the land belonged to Mr Ormsby; that in the
year 1800, Mr G:egg employed them to go up the hill, and to
cut timber to build a house a nd four fences; and in the autumn

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Gregg v..The'Lessoe.of Sayre and Wife.)

of 1800, the house was put up by them, and that he paid them
seventy-five or eighty dollars for doing it."
"Mr Gregg put Alexander Gibson as a tenant in the house,
who occupied it that fall and the succeeding winter, and made
an agreement with Mr Gregg, to rent it for several years, but
afterwards abandoned iL"
"Samuel Emmet went into the house in the spring of 1801,
and occupied it for a great number of years. George Kintzer
was in it for many years after Emmet. Andrew Rearick was
there ; and Young lived in it a year; George Bonners for six
months; Jacob Drake for three years. These tenants were all
put in by Isaac Gregg and his family. Witness also stated,
that he recollected that Isaac Gregg got another lot adjoijliig
the twenty-five acre lot, and between it and the bridge, about
twenty-nine years ago. Mr Gregg was to allow John Tate,
his tenant, out of the rent, for putting up a barn, and witness
assisted him, &c. On, the twenty-five acre lot, there %vasthe
ferry house, a.stable and a large shed: these improvements
were all made by Mr Gregg. The fences were put round the
upper lot in 1800; the lower lot was fenced long before. The
fences, since that time, have been kept up, and the witness
never understood, that any one; except Mr Gregg, had any
claim to the lots. Witness refers to the two lots in controversy."
"James Ross, Esq. testified, anjong other-things, that he
was acquainted with John Ormsby's family in 1782. In
1784, Colonel Woods, as the agent of the Penns, surveyed the
sixty-two acres in controversy, and noted, in his draft, that
the tract was platted for John Ormsby. After the reservation
of this lot, from Mr Ormsby, the manor was subdivided. Mr
Woods and Mr Brackenridge, who were the counsel for Mr
Ormsby, recommended that the .deed should be taken out in
the name of Mrs Ormsby; and- Doctor Bedford, her son-inlaw, proceeded to Philadelphia for that purpose, and brought
back the title; the consideration money had, probably, been
accumulated by Mrs Ormsby. Isaac Gregg was in possession of the property before the dates of the deeds to him. In
1802, Mr Gregg, had the ferry, and he and his tenants have
held possession ever since.
"Other witnesses were examined, who corrobortted the facts

SUPREME COURT.
[Gregg v. The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

already stated. Defendants also produced, and read in evidence, two deeds; the first from John Ormsby-, Jun., to Isaac
and Sidney Gregg, dated the 24th day of November 1804,
which had been duly acknowledged and recorded, for twentyfive qcres of the land in dispute; and also a deed from the
same to Sidney Gregg, dated the 13th of April 1805, for eight
acres and one hundred and twenty-two perches. Several
leases of the tenants of Isaac Gregg and his family were read,
and proof was made of the payment of taxes on the lots.
The defendants also read in evidence, the will of Joseph B.
Ormsby, and reference was made to an action of partition, instituted by the plaintiffs 1.gainst the defendants, in which a
judgment had been rendered in favour of defendants; to reverse which judgment, a writ of error was brought, and was
still pending in the supreme court of Pennsylvania."
The plaintiffs' counsel then proved,'b~y the testimony of
Samuel Pettigrew, Esq., that he was one of the viewers appointed by the orphan's court, under the petition of the 23d of
December 1832, before referred to ; that the viewers went on
the ground, and allotted a portion of the upper part of the tract
to Mrs Gregg, and the lower part to Mrs Ormsby.
The counsel for the defendants then offered to prove, by the
testimony of H. M. Watts, wiho was attorney for Mr Ormsby,
hand presented the petition above referred to, that it was done
at the instance of Mr Ormsby, for the purpose of establishing
his title to the lower part of the tract ; that at the time said
petition was signed, it was done reluctantly by Mr N. B. Craig,
as the committee of Mrs Gregg, and understood that Mrs
Gregg had heretofore claimed the portion of the tract she occupied in severalty, and that the said petition, and the decree
of the court upon it, were not to affect her right. Which testimony, on being objected to, was overruled by the court.
The evidence being closed, the counsel for the defendants
prayed the court to instruct the jury on the following points.
1. To entitle the plaintiffs to recover, on the ground that
Mrs Sayre is a child and heir of John Ormsby, they must
prove that there was an actual ma'rriage between him and her
mother.
2. That the statute of limitations does apply to tenants in
common ; and if the jury shall believe that the land in ques-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Gregg v.'The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

tion belonged to Jane Ormsby, and descended to Mary Sayre
and the other heirs, yet the statute of limitations would be a
bar to plaintiffs' recovery, if there was an actual adverse
and continuous possession in the defendant, and those under
whom she -claims, for twenty-one years.
3. Thatif the jury shall'believe the testimony of James Ross,
John Hutchinson and George Kintzer, the facts sworn to by
them, establish that kind of actual continuous and adverse possession, acknowledged by the courts, as coming up to, and fully
within the statute of limitations. Several other points were
made in the special prayer for instructions, but it is not important, now, to advert to them.
The court instructed the jury in substance, that the deeds
from John Ormsby to the defendants, dated in the years 1804
and 1805, and which purported to convey the fee simple, in
consideration of natural love and affection, did not transfer the
fee, as Ormsby only had a life estate in the piemises. "That
the deed of the husband cannot pass his wife's lands, and no
possession of the lands by the grantee, under the grant, can
create a presumption of title, or become adverse to the true
owner. An act or deed which is void, cannot be the foundation of an adverse possession, for it can give no colour of title;
and a void title is not such a conveyance as that -a possession
under it will be protected, under the statute of limitations.
The conveyance of N. Bedford to Jane Ormsby, was indorsed
on the deed from the Penns to N. Bedford ; and the conveyance by John Ormsby to Isaac and Sidney Gregg, recites the
conveyance to Bedford. It must, therefore, be presumed, that
John Ormsby had possession of the deed from the Penns to
N. Bedford ; and that he at least was conusant of the title of
the heirs of Jane Ormsby. The deeds to Isaac Gregg and to
Sidney Gregg, set forth a conveyance from N. Bedfoid to John
Ormsby ; uch a conveyance, however, was never made ; and
while that is admitted, the recital is attempted to be justified
on other grounds. It is clear, that the deed from N. Bedford
to Jane Ormsby, was withheld from the record by John Ormsby; and there is evidence enough to infer that it was suppressed
by him, for, being in possession of the deed, lie had power to
direct it to be recorded. His omission to do so, his false recitai
of a deed to himself from N. Bedford for the same land, and
VOL. Vu.-2 G

SUPREME COURT
EGregg v. The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

his concealment of the existence of any conveyance to Jane
Ormsby, leave no doubt of his intention to suppress that conveyance. Thi8 conduct was fraudulent on the part of John
Ormsby; and it is not material, whether Isaac Gregg and
Sidney Gregg were parties to it or not, since-no estate can be
acquired by a fraudulent grant: covinous conveyance of land
is as no conveyance, as against the interest intended to be defrauded. And it must follow, that no act or deed which is
fraudulent, can be the foundation of an adverse possession;
because, being absolutely void, and not merely voidable, it
cannot afford colour of title, and without colour of title, there
is nothing by which an adverse possession can be obtained;
and for this reason. The statute of limitations does not extend to cases of fraud, and only bekins to run from the time
the fraud becomes known to the person then having the title.
That all purchasers, for a valuable consideration, are affected
with constructive. notice of all that is apparent upon the face of
the title deeds under which they claim.
"The rightof Sidney Gregg, as one of the heirs of John Ormsby, if any she has as such, to the actual possession of the land,
accrued after the death of John Ormsby, Jun. She may have
then entered as one of the heirs of Jane Ormsby; and since
that time, to the time of bringing this suit, has held, as she
alleges, adversely to her co-tenants in common, and relies upon
the statute of limitations to protect her in her claim. A possession to prevent a recovery, or vest a right, under the statute
of limitations, must, be actual, continued, adverse and exclusive : and it is a settled principle, that the doctrine of adverse
possession is to be taken strictly, and not to be made out by
inference, but by clear and positive proof. Every presumption
is in favour of possession, in subordination to the title of the
true owner ; and whenever an adverse possession is relied on,
there should be some proof of an actual ouster. The possession of one tenant in common, is prima facie the possession of
his companion ; and the possession of the one can never be
considered as adverse to the title of the other, unless it be attended with circumstances demonstrative of an adverse intent.
And if one tenant in common enters generally, without saying
for whom, it will be implied, that he enters according to law;
that is, for himself, and the other tenant or tenants. To re-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Gregg v. The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

but this presumption of the .law,an actual ouster must be
proved ; which, however, may be inferred from circumstances,
of which the jury are to judge. They may presume an actual
ouster, where one tenant in common enters on the whole,
takes the profits and claims the whole exclusively, for twentyone years. Under such circumstances, his possession becomes
adverse, and the act of limitations begins to rim.
But a bare
perception of profits by one tenant in common, is not an ouster
of his co-tenant. The statute will not run where one holds as,
tenant in common, during the minority of his co-tenant. That
one tenant in common may oust his co-tenant, and hold in
severalty, is not to be questioned.
But a silent possession atcompanied with&no act which can amount to an ouster, or give
notice to his co-tenant that iis possession is adverse, ought ijot
to be construed into an adverse possession. What fact, constitute an ouster, and what adverse possession, must be determined by a jury. The party agaiJnst whom the adverse
possession is claimed cannot be concluded by it, if he ldbour
under any of the disabilities pointed out in the statute; or
where his co-tenaant claiming adversely, has been guilty of'
fraud, by concealing or suppressing the title.
"If Isaac Gregg entered upon the land adversely, fenced and
occupied it exclusively, and that occupation has been uniuterruptedly continued for twenty-one years, it would be available
as a bar, although Isaac Gregg may have entered as a trespasser; but the acceptance of the deeds from John Ormsby in
1804 and 1805, although these deds were'void as to the inheritance, must lead to the conclusion, that he held under
John Ormsby, Sen. The petition to the orphan's court for a
partition of the land, in December 1828, supports this view of
the case, and both acts show a disaffirmance of the title by
settlement and improvement, if any existed."
The residue of the charge affirms principles, some of which
are not controverted, and it need not be noticed.
This court have frequently remonstrated against the practice of spreading the charge of the judge at length upon the
record, instead of the points excepted to, as productive of no
good, but much inconvenience.
The principal question in this case, and, indeed, the only
one of much importance, arises inder the statlte of limiitations.

SUPREME COURT.
[Gregg v. The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

By this statute, an adverse possession of twenty-one years,
under a claim of title, will bar a recovery, though the occupant
have no title.
Possession of the lots in controversy was taken by the defendants, in the court below, and is still continued, but the
court instructed the jury that the acceptance of the deeds by
Gregg and wife, from John Ormsby, Sen., in the years 1804
and 1805, was an abandonment of their prior claim by occupancy, and that they must be considered as holding under those
deeds.
If it were necessary to a decision of this controversy, the
correctness of this instruction might well be questioned.
Ormsby had a life estate in the property, and it is not seen how
the grantees of this estate abandon their title in fee, or any
other claim, beyond that of a life estate, which they might have
to the premises. But, as the decision of the case must turn
upon another point, it is not necessary to examine this one.
It is true, as stated in the charge, that the husband cannot
convey his wife's land so as to bind the inheritance. That as
he holds only an estate for life in such land, he can convey no
greater interest. But were the circumstances under which the
deeds of 1804-and J805, by John Ormsby to Gregg and wife,
such as to make those deeds fraudulent, and wholly inoperative, under the statute of limitations ? And was it immaterial
whether Gregg and wife participated in this fraud of Ormsby,
or had any knowledge of it, as expressly charged by the court.
It is an admitted principle, that a court of law- has concurrent jurisdiction with a court of chancery, in cases of fraud.
3ut when matters alleged to be fraudulent are investigated in
a court of law, it is the province of a jury to find the facts, and
determine their character, under the instruction of the court.
Ormsby, in the opinion of the district,court, was guilty of fraud,
in not having the deed from N. Bedford to Jane Ormsby recorled, in reciting in his deeds to Gregg and wife, in 1804 and
1805, that a conveyance had been made to him by Bedfoid,
when he knew that it had beenmade to Jane Ormsby.his wife.
It would be difficult to assign any fraudulent motive to
Ormsby, in either of the acts stated. The deed to his wife,
from Bedford, was valid, though it was not recorded ; and that
he did not withhold it from the record with any view to his

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Gregg v. The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

personal advantage, is evident, from the fact of his having conveyed the property in consideration of hatural affection, to the
only surviving child of himself and the grantee.
In m aking these conveyances, on whom did he design to
practise a fraud ? Not on the grantees, for he received no
other consideration from them than the impulse of fraternal
attachment. Not on creditors, for it does not appear that they
have been prejudiced. Did he design to defraud his granddaughter, who prosecuted the action of ejectment in the district
court ? There is no foundation in the facts and circumstances
of the case for such an imputation.
Does the recital in these deeds that Bedford had conveyed
to Ormsby, afford evidence of fraud ? This recital may have
been made, and, indeed, it would seem, under the circumstances, was, most probably, made through a mistake of the
law. Bedford had conveyed to his wife Jane Ormsby, and he
might suppose that a feme covert could not take an estate in
fee, and that the conveyance enured to his benefit.
It appears, from the arguments of counsel, that this question
was not considered entirely free from difficulty, under the laws
of Pennsylvania, among some of the learned profession at that
early day.
Fraud, it is said, will never be presumed, though it may be
proved by circumstances. Now, where an act does not neces..
sarilyimport fraud; where it has more likely been-done through
a goodthan a bad motive, fraud 'should never be presumed.
But it is not necessary to decide whether these conveyances
were fraudulently made by Ormsby, or not. The important
point is, to know whether Gregg and wife had any knowledge
of the fraud, if committed, or participated in it. This knowledge, the court charged the jury, was immaterial; as the fraud
of Ormsby rendered the deeds void, and, consequently, they
could give no colour of title to an adverse possession.
This instruction is clearly erroneous. If Ormsby be justly
chargeable with fraud, yet if Gregg and wife did not partici pate in it; if when they received their deeds they had no
knowledge of it, there can be no doubt that the deeds do give
colour of title, under the statute of limitations.
Upon their face, the deeds purport to convey a title in fee;

SUPREME COURT.
[Gregg v. The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

and having been accepted in good faith by Gregg and wife,
they show the nature and extent of their claim to the premises.
Ormsby could convey no greater interest in the land than he
possessed ; but there is no evidence to show that the grantees
in this case knew that his estate was limited, or that, in accepting the deeds, holding possession of the property, and improving
it, they did not act in good faith. The possession which they
hold under these deeds was adverse to Sayre and wife, and
all other persons. The titles were for the whole property, and
in fee ; consequently there can be no presumption that the
possession was held as co-tenants with the plaintiffs, in the
court below. Both the possession and the titles were exclusive ; and they were, consequently, adverse to all other claimants.
The eighth section of the statute fixes the limitation of
twenty-one years as taking away the right of entry : and in
the ninth section it is provided, " that if any person or persons
having such right or title be, or shall be at the time such right
or title first descended or accrued, within the age of twentyone years, feme coverts; then such person or persons, and the
heir or heirs of such person or persons, shall and may, notwithstanding the said twenty-one years be expired, bring his or
their action, or make his or their entry, &c. within ten years
next after attaining full age," &c.
Mary Sayre, the defendant in error, was born in 1791, and
she was twenty-one years of age in 1812. Her father having
previously died, an interest in the property descended to her,
on the decease of her grandmother, Jane Ormsby, in 1799.
The second deed, from Ormsby to Sidney Gregg, was made
on the 13th of April 1805, the first one having been executed
the year before. On the 13th of April 1826, the twenty-one
years prescribed by statute expired, and the bar was complete
at that time, if the possession had been uninterrupted, as more
than ten years had run from the tifne Mary Sayre became of
full age. The suit in the district court was not commenced
until May 1830.
As this point decides the case, it is not necessary to examine
other parts of the charge to the jury. For the reasons assigned,
the judgment of the district court must be reversed.

JANUARY TERM 1834.

255

(Gregg v. The Lessee of Sayre and Wife.]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States, for the
western district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel;
on consideration'whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said district court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be,
and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court,
for further proceedings to be had therein, according to law and
justice, and in conformity to the opinion of this court.

