JANUARY TERM 1834

WILLIAM YEATON, THOMAS VOWELL, JUN., WILLIAM BRENTz,,
AUGUSTINE NEWTON AND DAVID RECKETS, ADMINISTRATORS
OF WILLIAM NEWTON, AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS V. DAVID
LENOX AND OTHERS, AND ELIZABETIt WATSON AND ROBERT
J. TAYLOR, ADMINISTRATRIX AND ADMINISTRATOR OF JAMES
WILSON, DECEASED.
A party may, after an appeal has been discussed for informality, if within
five years, bring up the case again.
The plaintiffs united severally in a suit, claiming the return of money paid
by them on distinct promissory notes given to the defendants. They are
several contracts, having no connexion with each other. These parties
cannot join their claims in the same bill.
Several creditors may not unite in a suit to attach the effects of an absent
debtor. They may file their separate claims, and be allowed payment outof the same fund, but they cannot unite in the same original bill.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Alexandria, ill the district of Columbia.
At an early day in the term, Mr Coxe, as counsel for the
appellees, moved to dismiss the case, as he alleged it had been
already twice discussed by the court, 7 Peters 220.
M Swann and Mr Neale opposed the motion.
The case was dismissed at a prior term of the cdurt, for
want bf an appeal bond. There had been but one appeal,
prior to the present, which was entered in 1833. The counsel
for the appellants are now prepared to proceed with the argument.

It is not admitted that a pceviou6 i-fegult appeal, prevents

another, unless the five years allowed by law for an appeal
have expired.
The record of the former appeal was not filed in the time
required by the rules of the court; and after it was dismissed,

the appellants went into the circuit court of the county of

Alexandria, and prayed for this appeal, which was granted;
and now all the requisites of the law and of the rules of court

have been fully complied with. While it is admitted, that
after an appeal the appellees, on the omission of the appellants
to do so, may file the record, have it opened, and pray to have

SUPREME COURT.
[Yeaton and others v. Lenox and others.]

it dismissed and thus finally disposed of, and precluding a
second appeal ; yet this has not been done, and the action of
the court in the case, when formerly before it, has not such
effect.
The court refused the motion. A party mhy, after an
appeal has been discussed for informality, if within five years,
bring up the case again.
The case came on afterwards for argument: Mr Swann and
Mr Neale, for the appellants; and Mr Coxe, for the appellees.
The court gave no opinion on the questions of law submitted
in the argument, but dismissed the case for informality in.the
institution of the suit. The arguments of counsel are therefore omitted.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The plaintiffs, with several other persons, had, previous to
the year 1804, associated with -each other under the name of
the Marine Insurance Association of Alexandria, for the purpose of making insurances on vessels and cargoes, against sea
risks. On the 26th day of June 1804, James Wilson obtained
an insurance on the Governor Strong, on a voyage fi'om Norfolk to biverpool, to the amount of ten thousand dollars. The
policy is inserted on the record. It is not a joint contract made
by the association as a company, but by each for himself. Each
subscribes the sum for which he becomes responsible. James
Wilson had purchased the Governor Strong from Alexander
Henderson & Co., and appears to have indorsed their notes
in the Bank of the United States. After his death, his representatives, in September or October 1805, made a transfer of
the vessel to the bank, for the security of that debt.
Some time after the vessel had sailed, intelligence was received of injury sustained by the Governor Strong, and Wilson
claimed from the insurers a considerable sum on that account,
informing them, at the same time, that the money belonged to
the bank. Although the insurers were not satisfied of their
liability, they agreed to advance their several notes, dated the
25th May 1805, to the said Wilson, payable sixty days after
date at the office of discount and deposit, Washington. The

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Yeaton and others v. Lenox and others.)

bill charges, that these notes were advanced on condition
that the money should be returned to them by the bank, should
it afterwards appear that they were not liable for the partial
loss sustained by the Governor Strong, and that this agreement
was communicated to the bank. These notes were passed to
the bank, and paid by the several makers when due.
In a suit afterwards brought on the policy for the benefit of
the-bank, it-was determined that the underwriters were not
liable for the loss sustained by the Governor Strong; after
which, -application was made for the return of the money paid
on- the notes given to Wilson, which the bank refused, alleging,
*that the money had been paid absolutely on account of the
debts due from Alexander Henderson & Co.
The charter of the bank having expired, and its affairs being
committed to trustees, the makers of the several notes which
have been stated, united in this suit against the trustees. As
they were non residents of the district, their property was attached in the l'tands of the debtors of the bank, who were also
made defendants.
James Davidson afterwards undertook to perform the decree
of the court, and the attachment was discharged. At a subsequent term, Davidson was, by consent, made a defendant,
and his answer was received as an answer for the trustees.
He says, that in January 1806 thebank received promissory
notes from James Wilson, executed to the plaintiffs severally,
amounting to two thousand one hundred and twenty-four dollars and four cents, to be placed, when paid, to the credit of
Alexander Henderson & Co., on account of a loss by the
underwriters. Should the underwriters not be liable, the notes
were to be returned, if unpaid ; if paid, the money was to be
refunded. These notes, not being paid, were returned. He
admits that the notes mentioned in the bill, were deposited on
the 30th of May 1805, to go, when paid, to the credit of Alexander Henderson & Co., but has no recollection of any condition respecting their return. An amended bill- was filed, in
which the said Davidson was again required to answer more
precisely respecting the transaction : to say, whether he was
not, at the time, cashier of the office at Washington ; to state in
what way the notes were deposited in bank on the 30th of May
1805.; were they sent in a letter ? if so, the defendant is re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Yeaton and othbrs v. Lenox and others.]

quired to produce it, or a copy of it, and the entry made on the
books of the bank- in relation to the said notes.
The answer of Davidson refers to his former answer respecting the notes deposited on the 30th of May 1805, and says,
that he has no other information than is there given. He
does not recollect in what manner the notes were transmitted,
nor whether they were accompanied by any letter. "No such
letter isnow in his possession. No entry was made in the
books of the bank in relation to said notes, except that they,
were to go, when paid, to the ciedit of Alexander Henderson
& Co., to whose credit such of them as were paid were carried."
The entry on the bank books is made an exhibit, and is as
stated in the answer of Davidson.

A correspondence which took place on this subject with the
then president of the office of the bank at. Washington, is contained in the record, and some testimony was taken by the plaintiffs. The letters and the depositions furnish strong presumptive
evidence that if the bank supposed the notes tobe paid absolutely
on account of the debt due from Alexander Henderson & Co.,
the makers supposed them to be paid conditionally, and that the
money was to be refunded, should they not be held responsible
for the partial loss sustained by the Governor Strong.
On a hearing, the bill was dismissed with costs, and the
plaintiffs appealed to this court.
Whatever might be the condition on which the plaintiffs
delivered their notes to Wilson, the bank cannot be affected by
it, unless it was communicated to the office. The testimony,
that it was communicated, has great plausibility, but when it
is recollected that the deposit of January 1806 might be confounded with that of May 1805, we are not satisfied that the
testimony ought to countervail the answer of the cashier, and
the entry on the books of the bank. We are, however, relieved from the difficulty of deciding on a doubtful fact, by an
objection taken by the appellees to the action.
The plaintiffs who unite in this suit, claim the return of
money paid by them severally on distinct promissory notes.
They are several contracts, having no connexion with each
other. These patties cannot, we think, join their claims in the
same bill.

JANUARY TERM 1834.

127

[Yeaton and others v. Lenox and others.J

The appellants contend, that several creditors may unite ill
a suit to attach the effects of an absent debtor. We do not
think so. They may file their separate claims, and be allowed
payment out of the same fund, but cannot unite. in the same
original bill.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and -was argued by counsel ; oti consideration whereof, it is
ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said
circuit court iii this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed
with costs.

