SUPREME COURT.

GEORGE BRISCOE AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE
COMMONWEALTH'S BANK OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN AND COMMONALTY OF THE CITY OF
NEW YORK, PLAINTIFFS V. GEORGE MILN.
In cases where constitutional questions are involved, unless four judges of
the court concur in opinion, thus making the decision that of a majority of
the whole court, it is not the practice of the court to deliver any judgment,
except in cases of absolute necessity.
Four judges not having concurred in opinion as to the constitutional questions
argued in these cases, the court directed that the cases shall be re-argued
at the next term.

GEORGE BRISCOE AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE
COMMONWEALTH'S BANK OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

IN error to the court of appeals of the state of Kentocky.
The legislature of the state of Kentucky, on the 29Lh November 1820, incorporated a "Bank of the Commonwealth,"
the Whole capital stock of which, amounting to two millions of
dollars, belonged exclusively to the state, and consisted of certain funds, moneys, stocks, &c. enumerated in the act. The
bills and notes of this bank were made receivable in all payments for taxes and other demands of the state: the interest
arising from loans and discounts, after the payment of expenses,
became part of the annual revenue, and the revenue of the
state was made part of the capital of the bank. The management of the institution was entrusted to a prcsident and twelve
directors, chosen annually, by joint ballot of both houses of the
general assembly. See the act, 2 Littell and Swigert's Digest
of the Stat. Laws of Kentucky, sec. 1, 3, 5, 17, 24; 35, pp. 155,
156, 159, 162, 163.
On the 25th of December 1820, the legislature passed another act, making it lawful, when any execution shiould issue,
tor the plaintiff to iudorse thereorn, that notes of the Bank of

Kentucky or its branches, or noteo of the Bank of the Conm-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Briscoe and others v. The Commonwealth's Bank of Kentucky.]

monwealth. or its branches, would be received in payment;
whereupon such execution should be collected and replevied
agreeably to the laws then in force, allowing three months
replevin only. But if any execution issued without.such indorsement, such execution was allowed to be stayed two years,
on giving bond with approved security, &c., 2 Littell and Swigert's Digest, 459, 500, sec. I and 2.
This was an action brought in March 1831, in the circuit
court of Mercer circuit, Kentucky, by the bank so incorporated,
against George H. Briscoe and others, to recover the sum of
two thousand and forty-eight dollars and thirty-seven cents,
the amount of a promissory note given by them to the bank.
The defendants in the court below, the plaintiffs in error,
pleaded, in substance, that the note sued on was given in renewal of another note, and that of a preceding one; and that
the only consideration given for the original note, by the said
bank, was bills of credit issued by the state of Kentucky,
through and by means of the said bank, contrary to the constitution of the United States.
To the pleas of the defendants the plaintiffs demurred, and
the circuit court sustained the demurrers, and gave judgment
against the defendants for the amount of the note, with interest and costs. The defendants appealed, and .the court of
appeals, at May term 1832, affirmed the judgment of the circuit court.
The court of appeals being the highest court of law of the
state of Kentucky, in which a decision on the case could be
had, and there being drawn in question rights attempted to be
derived under a law of a state, impugned on the ground of its
repugnance to the constitution of the United States, the case
has been removed from the court of appeals of Kentucky to the
supreme court of the United States, by writ of error, pursuant
to the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act
of 1789.
For the plaintiffs in error, three points were insisted on.
1 That the record shows a proper case for the jurisdiction
of this gourt, within the provisions of the twenty-fifth section
of the judiciary act of 1789.
2. That the act of the legislature of Kentucky establishing

SUPREME COURT.
[Briscoe and others v. The Commonwealth's Bank of Kentucky.]

the Bank of the Commonwealth, is unconstitutional and void;
being repugnant to the provision of the constitution of the
United States, which declares that no state shall emit bills of
credit.
3. That the Bank of the Commonwealth has no right to
recover on the promissory note which is the foundation of this
suit, because the consideration was illegal.
The case was argued by Mr White and Mr Wilde, for the
plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Hardin and Mr Bibb, for the defendant.
The opinion of the Court was given on this, and on the following case, together.

THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN AND COMMONALTY OF THE
NEw YORK, PLAINTIFFS v GEORGE MILN.

CITY OF

ON a certificate of division in opinion of the judges of the circuit court of the United States for the southern district of New
York.
The plaintiffs instituted an action against the defendant,
George Miln, in the circuit court, to recover certain penalties
and forfeitures alleged to haye been incurred by him for a violation of the provisions of an act of the-legislature of the state
of New York, entitled "an act concerning passengers in vessels
coming to the port of New York," passed February 11 th, in the
year of our Lord 1824, by which it was, among other things,
enacted, that every master or commander of any ship, or other
vessel, arriving at the port of New York from any country out
of the United States, or from any other of the United States
than this state, shall, within twenty-four hours after the arrival
of such ship or vessel in the said port, make a report, in writing,
on oath or affirmation, to the mayor of the city of New York,
or, in case of his sickness or absence, to the recorder of the said
city,.of the name, place of birth and last legal settlement, age
and oecupation of every person who shall have been brought
as a passenger in such ship or vessel on her last voyage from

