SUPREME COURT.

KOSCIUSZKO ARMSTRONG, APPELLANT V. BENJAMIN L. LEAR,
ADMINISTRATOR OF THADDEUS KOSCLUSZKO AND OTHERS.
A bill was filed in the circuit court of the district of Columbia, claiming a
United
legacy under an alleged codicil made in Paris, to a will made in tile
States. The testator was a native of Poland : at the time of the making of
the codicil he resided in France; and when he made the will, to which the
instrument, upon which the legacy was claimed was said to be a codicil, he
was in the United States. He went to Europe soon after he made the will,
and many years afterwards he died in Switzerland. The bill alleged that the
instrument on which the legacy was claimed had been duly proved in the
orphan's court of Washington county, in the district of Columbia, where
the adminigtrator, with the will annexed, resided. There was no allegation
that the codicil had been established to be a valid will by the law of France,
the place of the domicil of the testator where the same was made. The
administrator submitted to the court whether it would decree the payment
of the money to the complainant "tupon an instrument made under the.circumnstances, and authenticated in the manner that the aforesaid instrument
is, and whether the said instrument shall have .effect to revoke or alter any
part of said testator's will, solemnly executed and left in the hands'of
his executor in this country," &c. &c. By the court: This is certainly a
very informal anl loose mode of putting in issue (if upon the bill such -a
question can be tried) the validity of a will made in a foreign country, whose
laws arb not brought before the court, either by averment or evidence.
The answer contains an allegation, that certain persons residing in Europe
have filed a bill in the circuit court of the district of Columbia, against him,
whole, as
the administrator, claiming a large portion of the assets, if not tile
creditors or mortgagees of the testator; and certain persons, also residing in
Europe, have filed another bill against him (it was probably meant in the
same court), claiming the whole assets, as heirs at law of the testator, and
therefore as distributees of the said assets. None of the parties to either of
these latter bills are made parties to the present bill. By the court: The
persons claiming as heirs of the testator, should be made parties, that they
may have an opportunity to contest the plaintiff's title, as the real parties in
interest, the administrator being but a mere stake holder.
The heirs and legal representatives of the testator filed a bill in the circuit
court claiming from the administrator of the testator with the will annexed,
the funds which had come into his hands ; which bill is still pending. The
allegations in the bill go to defeat the validity of the will made in the United
States, and also assert other grounds of claim.- By the court: All the bills
ought, if possible, to be brought to a hearing at the same time in the circuit
court, in order that a final disposition mAy, at the same time, be made of all
the questions arising in all of them.
If the intention is to put in issue (as it seems to be), not only the construction
and operation of the testamentary instrument in favour of the plaintiff, but
its validity and effedt as a will, it is material that the law of France, the

JANYTARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]
place of the domicil of the testator at the time of its execution, should be
brought before the court, and established as matter of fact; for the court
cannot judicially take notice of foreign laws, but they must be proved by,
proper evidence. The present allegations of the bill and answer are quite
too loose for this purpose; and they should be amended and made more
distinct and direct.
There may arise some nice questions of international law, in which the fact of
thu domicil of the testator at the 'time of his birth, at the time of his making
the will made in the United States, and at the time of his death, may become material. The court do not mean to say, what is the rule that is to
govern in cases of wills of personalty, whether it be the rule of the native
domicil, or of the domicil at the time of the execution of the will, or of the
domicil at the death of the party, where there have been changes of domioil. These are points, which ought, hinder the circumstances of this case,
to be left open for argument. But the facts on which the argument should
rest, ought to be distinctly averred in the bill, and metin the answer.
The place of domicil of the testator at the time of hiis death, may also become
material under another aspect of the case, viz. the question, who are his
heirs, entitled to the succession, ab intestato, or under the other will or
wills executed by him, to which reference is made in some of the papers in
the case. The persons claiming as such heirs, must establish their title
under, and according to the law of his domicil at the time of his death. So
that perhaps it may become material, if Switzerland was the domicil of the
testator at the tinie
of his death, to bring the law of that country distinctly,
as matter of fact, before the court.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States of the
district of Columbia, for the county of Washington.
On the 1st day of April 1829, the appellant Kosciuszko Armstrong filed a bill in thb circuit court, setting foith his citizenship of the state of*New York, and that Thade Kosciuszko,
late an officer in the service of the United States, in the war
of their revolution, and of the republic of Poland, on or about
the 5th day of May in 'the year 1798, placed a large sun in
the hands of Thomas Jefferson, Esq., late president of the
United States, far exceeding the sum of ten 'thousand dollars,
and executed a will and testament, a copy of which is herewith filed, and marked exhibit A, and which this complainant
prays maybe taken as a part of this his bill. That afterwards,
to wit on or about the 28th day of June in the year 1806,
the said Thade Kosciuszko, being then doliiciled at Paris, in
the kingdom of France, executed a certain instrument of
writing, being ij the nature and of the effect of a last will or
writing testamentary, whereby he willed and directed that
at his decease, the sum of three thousand seven hundred and

SUPREME COURT.
rArmstrong v. Lear.]

four dollars, current money, should be possessed by, and delivered over to the full enjoyment and use of the complainant;
and the said testator thereby instructed and authorized his
only lawful executor in the United States, the said Thomas
Jefferson, to reserve, in trust for that special purpose, of the
funds he held belonging to the testator, the aforesaid sum of
three thousand seven hundred and four dollars, in principal to
the complainant, to be paid by him, the said Thomas Jefferson, immediately after his decease, to the complainant, and, in
case of his death, to the use and benefit of his surviving brothers. That the said testator, on the day and year aforesaid,
duly signed and sealed the said instrument of writing in the
presence of two.competent witnesses, who attested the same,
and acknowledged the same, on the same day, before Fulwar
Skipwith, commercial agent and agent for prize causes for the
said United Slates, at Paris; and then delivered the same,
under his hand and seal, to John Armstrong, father of the
complainant. That afterwards, to wit on the 15th day of
October in the year 1817, the said Thade Kosciuszko departed
this life, leaving the said instrument of writing unrevoked;
and the same was, after the death of the said Thade Kosciuszko, admitted to probate, and duly proved in the orphan's court
of Washingtoi county ; a copy whereof, exhibit B, he prays
may be taken as a part of his bill.
That tie is advised, and believes that the said instrument of
writing is, to all intents and pirposes, a last will and testament, and must operate as such, and revokes pro tanto the bequests and appropriation made in the will first mentioned;
that the said Thomas Jefferson, named as executor in the will
first mentioned, refused to take out letters testamentary on the
estate of the said Thade Kosciuszko, and renounced all claim
and right so to do, according to law ; and Benjamin L. Lear,
whom the complainant prays may be made defendant to this
his bill, was duly appointed administrator, witlf the will annexed, on the said estate; which has since come into the
hands of the said Benjamin L. Lear, far exceeding, as aforesaid, ten thousand dollars. That the said Benjamin L. Lear
has been frequently applied t6 by the complainant for the payment of the aforementioned legacy of three thousand seven
hundred and four dollars, together with the interest thereon,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

which the said Lear refuses to pay, until the order and decree
of this court had upon the premises; and the said defendant
combining.and confederating with one major Estho, a subject
of his imperial majesty, the emperor of all the Russias, and
Monsieur Zeltner, formerly minister plenipotentiary of the
Helvetic Republic, at Paris, and now residing at, Soleure in
Switzerland, whom the complainant prays may be made parties to this his bill of complaint ; the said confederates sometimes pretend that the said Thade Kosciuszko never executed
the said the last mentioned writing testamentary, and sometimes they pretend that the said major Estho is the heir at
law of the said Thade Kosciuszko, and, as such, entitled to all
his said estate; and sometimes they pretend that the said!
Thade Kosciuszko, during his lifetime, made some disposition of
his said estate in favour of the children and other 'elatives of
the said Zeltner, whereas the said last mentioned writing
testamentary was duly executed as aforesaid; and that the
said major Estho is not the heir at law of the said Thade Kosciuszko, or if he is, that he is not entitled to receive distribution
of the said personal estate, and that the said Thade Kosciuszko
made no testamentary or other disposition in favour of the said
Zeltner, or his children or relatives, which could affect the
claim of the complainant under the said writing testamentary.
All which actings and doings, and pretences of the said confederates, .are contrary to equity 'and good conscience, and
tend to the manifest injury and oppression of the complainant.
Complainant's exhibit A.

1, Thaddeus Kosciuszko, being just on my departure from
America, do hereb' declare and direct that, should I make no
other testamentary disposition of my property in the United
States, I hereby authorize my friind Thomas Jefferson to employ the whole thereof in purchasing negroes from among his
own or any others, and giving them liberty in my name ; in
giving them an education in trades, or otherwise, and in having them instru6ted for their new condition in the duties of
morality, which may make them good neighbours, good fathers or moders, husbands or wives, and in their duties as citizens, teaching them to be defenders of their liberty and country,

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

and of the good order of society, and in whatsoeyer may make
them happy and useful. And I make the said Thonas Jefferson my executor of this.
T. KoscIuszKo.
5th day of May 1798.
Complainant'sexhibit B.
Know all men by these presents, that I, Thade Kosciuszko,
formerly an officer of the United States of America in their
revolutionary war against Great Britain, and a native of Lilourui, in Poland, at present residing at Paris, do hereby will and
direct, that, at my decease, the sum of three thousand seven
hundred and four dollars, currency of the aforesaid United
States, shall of right be possessed by, and delivered over to the
son
full enjoyment and use of Kosciuszko Armstrong, the
said
the
of
plenipotentiary
minister
of general John Armstrong,
States at Paris. For the security and performance whereof, I
do hereby instruct and authorize my only lawful executor in
the said United States, Thomas Jefferson, president thereof, to
reserve in trust for that special purpose, of the funds he already
holds belonging to me, the aforesaid sum of three thousand
seven hundred and four dollars, in principal; to be paid by him,
the said Thomas Jefferson, immediately after my decease, to
him, the aforesaid Kosciuszko Armstrong; and in case of his
death, to the use and benefit of his surviving brothers.
Given under my hand and seal, at Paris, this 28th day of
June 1806.
THADE KOSCIUSZKO.

[SEAL.]

In presence of
CHARLES CARTER,

JAME

M. MORRIS.

Commercial .'gency of the United States, Paris.
On this 28th day of June, in the year of our Lord 1806, and
of the independence of the United States of America the thirtieth, before the undersigned, commercial agent and' agent of
prize causes for the United States of America, at Paris, personally appeared Thade Kosciuszko, late officer of the said United
States, who, in his presence, signed and sealed the foregoing

T

ANUARY TERM 1834.
.Armstrong v. Lear.]

transfer in favour of Kosciuszko Armstrong, the
son of general John Armstrong, minister plenipotentiary of the United
States at Paris, and in case of his death, to the use and benefit
of his surviving brothers ; and did acknowledge it as his owin
act and deed for the purposes therein specified.
In testimony whereof, he, the said undersigned as aforesaid
has hereunto signed his name, and affixed his seal of office, at
Paris, the day and year above written.
[L. S.]
FULWAR SKIPWITH.

Orphan's Court, Washington County, Districtof Columbia, to wit:
Be it remembered, that on this 26th day of September, in
the year 1827, Richard Forrest, of the county and district aforesaid, made oath on the Holy Evangels of Almighty God, that
he is well acquainted with the hand writing of Fulwar Skip-,
with, late United States commercial agent at Paris, having
often seen him write; and that he verily believes the signature,
"Fulwar Skipwith," to the certificate to the annexed instru,ment of writing purporting to be the will of Thade Kosciuszko,
is the proper hand writing of said F. Skipwith ; and that he
believes the seal attached to said certificate is the official seal
of the United States consulate at Paris.
Sworn in open court.
Teste, HPNRY C. NEALu, Reg'r Wills.
And now, on this 8th day of May, in the year 1828, in the
orphan's court of Washington county, and district aforesaid,
Joseph C. Cabell, of Nelson county, in the state of Virginia,
makes oath on the Holy Evangels of Alnighty God, that he
is well acquainted with the haind writing of Charles Carter,
one of the subscribing w itnesses to the annexed paper, purpor~ting to be the will and testament of Thade Kosciuszko, deceased,
having often seen him write; and that- lie verily believes the
signature, " Charles Carter," as witness to said will, to be the
proper hand writing of said Charles Carter, now deceased; and
that he is well acquainted with the hand writing of Fulwar
Skipwith, late commercial agent of the United States at Paris,
having often seen him write ; and that he verily believes the
signature, "F. Skipwith," to the annexed certificate to the
instrument of writing purporting to be the will of Thade KosVOL. VII.-H

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

ciuszko, is the proper hand writing of the aforesaid Fulwar
Skipwith, who now resides near Baton Rouge, Mississippi.
Sworn in open court.
Teste, HENRY C. NEALE, Reg'r Wills.
District of Columbia, Washington County, to wit:
The-19th day of November 1828, James M. Morris, one of
the subscribing witnesses to the aforegoing instrument of writing, purporting to be the last will and testament of Thaddeus
Kosciuszko, deceased, made oath on the Holy Evangels of Almighty God, that he did see the testator, therein named, sign
and seal this will; that he published, pronounced and declared
the same to be his last will and testament; that, at the time
of his so doing, he was, to the best of his apprehension, of
sound and disposing mind, memory and understanding; and
that he, together with Charles Carter, the other subscribing
witness, respectively subscribed -their names as witnesses to the
will, in the presence, and at the request of the testator, and in
the presence of each other.
Sworn in open court.
Teste, HENRY C. NEALE, Reg'r Wills.
District of Columbia, Washington County, to wit:
I certify that the aforegoing last will and testament of Thaddeus Kosciuszko is truly copied from the original, filed and
recorded in my office.
Witness my hand, and seal of office, this 5th day of March,
in the year 1829.
[SEAL.]
HENRY NEALE, Reg'r Wills.
The bill prayed a subpcena against the defendants, and the
marshal returned that he had summoned B. L. Lear, and
"non sunt the rest. Mr Lear appeared to the bill.
The circuit court made the following order of publication
as to the absent defendants.
Kosciuszko Armstrong v. Benjamin L. Lear, administrator,
with the will annexed, of Thade Kosciuszko, major Estho, a
subject of his imperial majesty the emperor of all the Russias,
and Monsieur Zeltner, formerly minister plenipotentiary of the
Helvetic republic at Paris, and now residing at Soleure, in
Switzerland.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

The bill in this case states, that the said Thade Kosciuszko,
about the 5th of May 1798, placed a large fund in the hands
of Thorhas Jefferson, late president of the United States, exceeding the sum of ten thousand dollars; and executed a
will; that, on or about the 28th of June 1806, the said Kosciuszko executed at Paris, an instrument of the nature of, and
effect of, a last will or writing testamentary, whereby he
willed and directed that, at his decease, the sum of three thousand-seven hundred and four dollars should be possessed by,
and delivered over to the full enjoyment and use of the complainant, to be paid by the said Thomas Jefferson to the complainant, immediately after the said Kosciuszko's decease, out
of the said funds ; that the said Kosciuszko, on the said 28th
of June 1806, duly signed and sealed the said instrument of
writing, in the presence of two competent witnesses, who attested the same, and acknowledged the same, on. the same
day, before Fulwar Skipwith, commercial agent, and agent
for prize causes, for said United States at Paris, and then and
there delivered the same under his hand and seal to John
Armstrong, father of the complainant. That afterwards, to
wit on the 15th day of October 1817, the said Kosciuszko departed this life, leaving the said instrument of writing unreyoked, and the same has since been duly admitted to probate,
and proved in the orphan's court of Washington county. That
the said Thomas Jefferson, named as executor in the will first
mentioned, refused to take out letters testamentary on the
estate of the said Kosciuszko; and thereupon the defendant
Lear was duly appointed administrator with the will annexed.
The bill further charges that the said Lear refuses to pay the
said sum of three thousand seven hundred and four dollars,
because, among other reasons, a claim to the whole of the
funds of said estate has been made by said major Estho, as
heir at law of- said Kosciuszko, and another claim by the said
Monsieur Zeltner under another will, which he alleges the
said Kosciuszko to have made in Europe, in favour of himself
or some of his relations; and the complainant states the object of his said bill to be, to enforce a discovery, by said Lear,
of the funds and effects which have come to his hands as administrator as above named, and th6 payment by him to the
complainant of said sum of three thousand seven hundred and

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

four dollars, with interest, &c. And it appearing to the court
that two of the defendants in this case, viz. the said major
Estho and Monsieur Zeltner, are not within the jurisdiction of
this court, and do not reside within the United States, but, as
far as appears to the court, one of the said defendants resides
in Poland, and the other in Switzerland : it is therefore, by
this court here, on motion of the complainant's solicitor, ordered, this 3d day of August '1829, that the said absent defendants be and appear before this tourt here, in person or by
solicitor, on or before the second Monday of December next,
and answer the complainant's said bill, or show cause why a
decree should not be passed as prayed by said bill: otherwise,
the same will be taken for confessed against them, provided a
copy of this order be published in the National Intelligencer
twice a week, for six weeks successively,- the first publication
thereof to be at least four months previous to said second Monday of'December next.
By order of the court.
Teste, WILLIAM BRENT, Clerk.
3d .3ugust 1829.
In December 1831 Benjamin L. Lear, as administrator of
Thaddeus Kosciuszko, filed an answer stating that in the
character of administrator of Thaddeus Kosciuszko, with the
will annexed, he has assets for such administration amounting to more than ten thousand dollars. That on or about the
8th of January 1823, the complainant, by John Armstrong his
next friend, the complainant being then an infant, filed in
this court his bill of complaint against the respondent for the
same purpose, and in substance the same as his bill in this
case. That the respondent on the 22d of January 1823 filed
his answer to the bill with certain exhibits, which he asks to
be considered as part of his answer to the bill.
The answer of Benjamin L. Lear to the bill of complaint of
Kosciuszko Armstrong, an infant, under the age of twentyone years, by his father and next friend, John Armstrong, of
the county of Duchess, in the state of New York:
This respondent, saving ald reserving to himself, now, and
at all times hereafter, all and all manner of benefit and advantage of exception to the manifold uncertainties and imper-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

fections in the said complainant's said bill contained, for answer
thereunto, or unto so much thereof as materially concerns this
defendant to make answer unto, saith, that he is the administrator, with the will annexed, of Thaddeus Kosciuszko; that
he has no knowledge of a fund having been placed, by the late
General Thade Kosciciszko, in the hands of Thomas Jefferson;
and a will, having been executed by him, excepting such *as
he has derived from a letter of said Thomas Jefferson to Mr
Pierre de Politica, the envoy from Russi. to the United States
of America, and a copy of the record of the court of Albemarle
county, in Virginia; a copy of which, letter and record he received among the other papers from said Thomas Jefferson,
which were put into his hands as relating to the administration
of the estate of the said Thaddeus Kosciuszko; and a copy of
which letter is herewith exhibited to the court, marked defendant's exhibit A, which this defendant prays may be taken as
part of this his answer. That this respondent admits that the
instrument mentioned in the complainant's bill, -and exhibited
to this court by him, marked exhibit B, was executed and authenticated, as it purports to be, at Paris, in the kingdom of
France, the said Thade Kosciuszko being domiciled and'resident
at said Paris at the time said instrument was executed and
bears date; but this defendant submits to this honourable court,
and prays its decision thereon, whether it will decree him to
pay the said sum of three thousand seven hundred and four
dollars ,to the said complainant,, upon an instrument made
under the circumstances, and authenticated in the manner
that the aforesaid instrument is ; and whether said instrument
shall have the effect to revoke or alter any part of said Kosciuszko's will solemnly executed, and left in the hands of his executor in this country, to be carried into execution at his death,
and especially when it appears, from this defendant's exhibit
A, that the said executor had received, from his testator, a
letter of so late date as the 15th of September 1817, in which
he says of this fund, "after my death you know its-invariable
destination." And this defendant submits to the decision of
this honourable court, whether, if the instrument aforesaid,
being genuine and properly authenticated, is of the nature and
effect of a will or testament, the said letter of the testator to
his executor does notoperate as a revocation of said instrument,

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

and a re-establishment and republication of his former will?
And this defendant, further answering, saith, that he believes
it to be true that the said Thomas Jefferson, named as executor in said Kosciuszko's will, refused to take out letters testamentary on his estate, and renounced all claim and right so to
do, according to law. And this defendant saith, that he was,
on the 14th day of August in the year 1821, appointed by
the orphan's court, of the county of Washington, district of
Columbia, the administrator, with the will annexed, of the
estate of the said general Thaddeus Kosciuszko, and received
from the said orphan's court, letters of administration with said
will annexed, a copy of which is herewith exhibited to this
court, marked defendant's exhibit C, and which this defendant
prays may be taken as part of this his answer. That, after
receiving said letters of administration, there came to the
hands of this defendant from the said Thomas Jefferson, as
the estate of said Kosciuszko, two certificates of the six per cent
stock of the United States-one of eleven thousand three hundred and sixty-three dollars and sixty-three cents, and the
other of one thousand one hundred and thirty-six dollars and
thirty-six cents, and one certificate of stock of the Bank of
Columbia, of forty-six shares, amounting, at their par value,
to four thousand six hundred dollars. That the appraisers
appointed by the aforesaid orphan's court to estimate the value
of said stocks, appraised them both at par, taking into consideration the advance of the market price of the one, and the
depreciation of that of the other, and their respective amounts,
and appraising them both together. That, after the receipts
of said certificates, there came to the hands of this defendant,
dividends upon said stocks to the amount of four thousand one
hundred and four dollars, which he invested, with the consent
of said orphan's court, in six per cent stocks of the said United
States, and which purchased of said stock of the United States
a certificate of three thousand seven hundred and ninety-four
dollars and twenty-four cents, and that there have since come
to his hands, as dividends upon all of said stocks, five hundred
and eighty dollars and eighty-two cents, making the whole
amount of the estate of said Kosciuszko, which has came to his
hands,'twenty thousand eight hundred and ninety-four dollars
and twenty-three cents of stocks estimated at their par value.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

and five hundred and eighty dollars and eighty-two cents in
cash. This' defendant, further answering to the bill of said
complainant, saith, that among the papers which came to his
hands, as herein before mentioned, is a letter from the aforesaid Mr De Poletica, to the said Thomas Jeffhrson, enclosing
a copy of a despatch from the viceroy of Poland to him, a copy
of which letter and despatch is herewith exhibited to this honourable court, marked defendant's exhibit D; and by which
this defendant understands that the whole estate of said Kosciuszko may be claimed by a major Estho, of Poland, as the
heir at law of said Kosciuszko. That this respondent communicated to said Poletica in April last, such information as he
possessed in relation to said estate, and was informed by said
Politica that the same would be transmitted to the said viceroy of Poland. That there were also, among the papers aforesaid, two letters from a Mr Zeltner to said Thomas Jefferson,
copies of which are herewith exhibited, marked "defendant's
exhibit E, and defendant's exhibit F," by which this defendant understands, that the said Kosciuszko has disposed of the
greater part of his fortune in favour of the children, nieces,
brothers and sister of the said Zeltner, and that his (said Kosciuszko's) parents were living in Poland at the date of the
first of said letters.
Exhibit A.
,Monticello, June 12, 18
Sir, I have received your favour of May 27, on the subject
of the property of the late general Kosciuszko, vested in our
funds, and left under my care and direction. A little before
the departure of the general from America, in 1798, he wrote
a will, all with his own hand, in which he directed, that the
property he should possess here, at the time of his death, should
be laid out in the purchase of young negroes, who were to be
educated and emancipated: of this will lie named me executor, and deposited it in my hands. The interest of his money
was to be regularly rermitted to him in Europe. My s uation
in the interior of the country, rendered it impossible foi me to
act personally in the remittances of his funds, and Mr John
Barnes, therefore, of Georgetown, was engaged under a power
of attorney to do that on commission - which dity he regularly

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

and faithfully performed until we heard of the death of the
general. We had, in the mean time, by seasonably withdrawing the greater part of his funds from the bank in which
he had deposited them, and lending them to the Governmnent
during the late war, augmented them to seventeen thousand
one hundred and fifty-nine dollars and sixty-three cehts: to
wit, twelve thousand four hundred Iand ninety-nine dollars and
sixty-three cents in the funds of the United States, and four
thousand six hundred dollars in the Bank of Columbia, in
Georgetown. I delayed, for a considerable time, the regular
probate of the will, expecting to hear from Europe, whether
he had left any will there, which might affect his property
here. I thought that prudence and safety required this, although the last letter he wrote me before his death, dated
September 15, 1817, assured me of the contrary in these words,
"nous avangons tous en 9ge, c'est pour cela, mon cher et respectable ami, que je t'ous prie de vouloir bien (et comme
vous avez tout le pouvoir) arranger qu' apr~s la mort de notre
digne ami Mr Barnes, quelqu'un d'aussi probe que lui prenne
sa place, pour que je regoive les intrAts ponct uellement de
mon fonds; duquel, apr~s ma mort, vous savez la destination
invariable,quhnt a pr 6sent faites pour le mieux comme vous
pensez." After his death, a claim was presented to me on
behalf of Kosciuszko Armstrong, son of General Armstrong,
of three thousand seven hundred and four dollars, given in Kosciuszko's lifetime, payable out of this fund; and subsequently
came a claim to the whole from Mr Zeltner, of Soleure, under
a will made there. I proceeded, on the advice of the attorneygeneral of the United States, to prove the will in the state
court of the district in which I reside, but declined the executorship. When the general named me his executor, I was
young enough to undertake the duty, although, from its nature,
it was like to be of long continuance; but the lapse of twenty
years more, had rendered it imprudent for me to engage in
what I could not live to carry into effect: finding now, by your
letter of May 27, that a relation of the general's als6 claims
this property, that it is likely to become litigious, and age and
incompetence to business admonishing me to withdraw myself from entanglements of that kind, I have determined to
deliver the will and whole subject over to such court of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

United States as the attorney general of the United States shall
advise, (probably it will be that of the District of Columbia)
to place the case in his hands, and to petition that court to
relieve me from it, and to appoint an administrator with the
will annexed. Such an administrator will probably call on
the different claimants to interplead, and let the court decide
what shall be done with the property. This I shall do, sir,
with as little delay as the necessary consultations will admit,
and when the administrator is appointed, I shall deliver to
him the original certificates which are in my possession: the
accumulating interest and dividends remain untouched in the
treaiury of the United States and Bank of Columbia.
I learnt with much pleasure your return to the United States,
and in a character, which enables you to do much good to
your own, as well as to our country. The peace and friendly
intercourse of nations depend much on the personal characters
of their diplomatic agents, whose view of things, in black or
in white, cannot fail to tinge that of their respective governments. Your friendly dispositions give us entire confidence,
that every thing from you will be conciliatory, and its effects
the greater, as the proofs we have had of the friendship of
your great and good emperor, give us confidence, that what.
ever seed you sow, will fall Ineither by the way-side, nor in
stony places; nor among thorns, but on good ground, which
will bring forth fruit to a hundred fold.'
We all recollect with pleasure, the favour of
your former
visit to Monticello, and a repetition will be equally gratifying,
should your affairs permit. The country cannot, like, the
cities, furnish the amusements of varied society: a varied scene
is all it can offer to its guests, and a view of the tranquil current of domestic life. In presenting to you the souvenirs of
the family, I tender my salutations also, and the assurance of
my high respect and consideration.
TH.JEFFERSON.

H. E. Xi. Dt Poletica, A'mbassador of Russia.
Exhibit B.
Red Hook, 4th Jan. 1818.
Dear sir, Some years before I left Paris, General Kosciuszko
put into my hands the paper, of which the enclosed is a copy.
VOL. ViI.-!

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

Understanding that it was not to be used till the general's
death, it has been in my cabinet unopened, from that day till
this, and is now recurred to on the information brought by
the mails of the day, that the general had died in Switzerland,
on the 15th of October last, and that his funeral was celebrated in Paris on the 31st of that month. I beg to know
from your kindness, whether you have any information from
Switzerland or France in relation to this event, and (if it corresponds with mine) what'other steps, if any besides furnishing the otiginal document, will be necessary or proper to give
effect to the general's will, so far as my son is concerned.
The young man is now fifteen or sixteen years old.
ILbeg you to accept assurances of my great respect and esteem.
JOHN ARMSTRONG.

Thomas Jefferson, .Monticello.
The will and probate, as contained in pages ante, were also
annexed as exhibits; together with the following correspondence.
Washington City, le 27 .Mai 1819.
Monsieur, Peu avant mon d6part de Paris en F~vrier dernier
j'ai requ du vice-roi de Pologne Prince Lajanceck, la lettre
dont j'ai l'honneur de vous transmettre ci jointe la copie avec
celles des pi~ces qui l'accompagnoient. Le tout indique clairement la nature des renseignements que me demtinde le gouvernement de Pologne et que je n'ai pas h6sit6 de lui promettre,
comptant d'avance sur votre obligeance, malgr6 tous les motifs
qui' m'engageoient . respecter vos loisirs si pr6cieux par les
souvenirs aux quels ils se rattachent.
Je saisis avec empressement cette occasion pour vous exprimer, Monsieur, mon vif desir d'obtenir la permission de me
pr6senter encore une fois I Monticello, pour vous y renouveller
de vive voix l'expression de la htute consider ation avec laquelle
j'ai l'honneur d' 6tre, Monsieur,
Votre trbs humble et tr~s obeissant serviteur,
PIERRE DE POLETICA,

Envoy6 de Russie prs les U. S. d'.Im~rique.
Thomas Jefferson, ,Monticello.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.j

Copie d'ene dpche du Vice Roi du Royaume de Pologne 4 Mr
de Poletica, dat6e de Varsovie, du 17 .Nov. 1818.
Le sieur Estho, ci devant major A I'arm6e Polonaise, neveu
de feu le g6n6ral Kosciuszko, se trouvant dans le cas d'avoir
besoin d'une information exacte sur 1' 6tat de la fortune q ue le
dit gen6ral a pu d6laisser, a reclam6 l'intervention de son
gouvernement a l'effet de lui procurer les 6claircissements
n6cessaires '1 cet 6gard par ' entremise de la mission de S. M.
I. et R. notre Auguste Maitre prls la cour de France.
La correspondance dont M. le G1. Pozzo di Borgo a bien
voulu se charger A cet effet avec des personnes qui lui sembloient 6tre le plus h m6me de conuoltre les moyens p6cuniaires
de feu Kosciuszko, a donn6 pour r6sultat deux letres ci-jointes
en copies, portant quelques renseignenients sur l' objet ci-dessus
mentionn6.
II conste de ces deux pi~ces et votre excellence voudra bien
s'en convaincre, que le GI. Kosciuszko, outre les fonds d6pos6s
entre les mains de diff6rents banquiers en France et en Suisse
en poss6doit de plus cousiderables encore chez MM. Thomson
et Bonar a Londres et chez Jefferson et Barnes A Washington.
Le sieur Estho met d'autant plus d'inter6t A obtenir des notions pr 6 cises relativement aux fonds de son oncle plac6s en
Amrique, qu 'il a tout lieu de supposer qu'ils ne sont point
compris parmi les sommes dont le d6funt a dispos6 par son
testament.
Faisant ptr. cons6quent droit aux plus vives instances du
p6titionaire, j'ose vous supplier, Monsieur, de daigner faire les
dmarches n6cessaires pour cet effet, aupr~s des sieurs Jeffer.
son et Barnes, citoyens des Etats Unis, et de vouloir bien m' en
communiquer le r6sultat d6s qu'iI aura 6L6 port6 A votre connois sance.
Je saisis avec empressement cette occasion pour offrir a V.
Ex. 1'expression de ma rs haute consid6ration.
(SignI6 )
Conforme A 1' original, POLETICA.

LAJONCECK.

Copie d' une lettre de .Mr Hottinguer a S. Ex. le G1. Pozzo di
Borgo, dat&e de Parisdu 2 'uillet1818.
En r6ponM &la lettre que V. Ex. nona a fait 'honneur de

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

nous 6crire le 29 Juin, nous la pr6Venons qu'aux 6poques
du 5 Avril et du 4 Juin 1818, les fonds d6pos6s chez nous par
feu le GI. Th. Kosciuszko, s'6levoient en principal la somme
de fr. 99.775, et que le ler. Octobre 1817, le solde lui revenant
sur nos livres, 6toit de f. 102.400, a. peu de chose pros et int6r&s
compris.
D'apr~s quelques renseignements que nous avons reus et
dont nous D pouvons garantir !'exactitude, il paroit qu' au
d~c~s du GL. Kosciuszko (15 Octobre 1817), il avoit en depbt
environ:
f. 100.000 chez Messrs T. Thomson, T. Bonar et Cie.A
Londres,
6.000 chez Mr G. Esher A.Zurich,
5.000 chez Mr Beltin A Soleure,
111.000 ensemble.
Le g6n~ral Kosciuszko a fait deux testaments: l'un dat6 de
Soleure le 4 Juin 1816; l'autre 6galement dat6 de Soleure
le 10 Octobre 1817. Par le premier il a 16gu6 sur ces fonds en
nos mains,
f. 60.000 en faveur de Mlle. Thadea Ernine Wilhelmina
Zeltner sa Filleule,
35.000 en faveur de Mlle. Marie Charlotte Zaire Marguerite Zeltner,
5 000 en faveur de M. Bonisant p~re, notaire A Moret
ex6cuteur testamentaire,
190.000 Total portant int~r~ts A 5 p. ct. du jour du d6cbs.
Par l'autre testament le G1. a dispos6 de tous ses fonds chez
Meeirs T. Thomson, T. Bonar et Cie. F. G. Esher, et Beltin
en faveur de divers. I1 a aussi dispos6 du reste de son avoir
chez nous et a nomm M. Havier Armetly de Soleure pour
executeur du 2d testament.
Ces deux ex(cuteurs testamentaires s'etant mis en r~gle visa-vis de nous, nous avons pay6 f. 102.430 10, 1e 9 Avril, dernier h MM. Bonissant, en execution du testament du 4 Juin
1816; principal et inter~ts 2.700; le 2 Juin A M. Havier
Amieth pour balance du conipte du GI. Kosciuszko, chez nous

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

f. 105.130 10 ensemble, au moyen de quoi nous n'avons plus
aucuns fonds appartenant A la succession du G6n6ral.
Nous avions lieu de croire que les autres Maisons se sont
6galemnt dessaisies des fonds en leurs mains, en ex6cution du
second testament.
Quant aux fonds que pouvoit avoir le GI. Kosciuszko en
Am6rique nous avons su que vers l'ann6e 1810 il avoit:
12,500 environ plac6s chez Mr Jefferson, ancien Pr6sident
des Etats Unis,
•4,500 environ chez un Mr Barnes AWashington.
-- Soit h peu-pres quatre vingt cinq mille francs, mais
$17.000 nous ignorons entierement 'il en a dispos6.
(Sign6)
HOTTINGUER.
Conforme A l'original, POLETICA.
Copie d'une lettre de Bonissantpre, ,N7otaire&.Moret a S. Ex. .11.
le GI. Pozzo di Borgo, datde de Mlforet du 3 Juillet 1818.
Je n'ai pas U6 Am~me de connoitre la fortune de M. le gen 6 ral: il etoit retir6 tout pros d'ici dans la famille de Mr Zeltner
dont j'ai la confiance. Voila comme j'ai fait sa connoissance
et que par suite il m'a donn6 des marques d' amiti6, et :m'a
rendu aussi d6positaire de son testament. Environ. dix huit
mois avant de moUrir il avoit fait un testament dont il m'avoit
confi6 un double ; le testament aussit6t son decks a 6t6 ouvert
suivant les formes 16 gales; il a 16gu 6 A plusieurs personnes les
sommes en argent qu'il avoit A Paris entre les-mains de la
Maison Hottinguer et Comp. II m'avoit choisi pour son ex6cuteur testamentaire, et j'ai fait acquitter les legs. Quant Ace qui
concerne les autres noyens p~cuniaires de ce respectable g6 n6ral, je ne puis vous donner aucun renseignement; je ne sais
m~me pas s'il avoit d' autres fonds ou des biens ailleurs.
Je pr6sume que vous pourriez le savoir, en vous addressant
A M. Zeltner, chez lequel il demeurait: I1serait plus A m~me de
vous satisfaire sur cette demande. Mr Zeltner est parti il y a
environ trois mois pour accompagner les pr6 cieux restes de
ce digne G6n6ral a Cracovie, et doit etre de retour sous peu
de jours.

J'ai l'honneur d'
9tre, etc.,
BONISSANT.

Conforme a l'original,

POLETICA.

SUPREME COURT.
fArnstrong v. Lear.]
Exhibit F.
Soleure en Suisse, le 14 .dvril 1819.
Monsieur, J'ai requ it y a peu de jours, le lettre que vous
m'avez fait l'honneur de m'6crire le 23 Jtiillet 1818, et au
moment que je me suis address6 A vos autorit6s pour me faire
donner un extrait mortuaire du G6n6ral Kosciuszko duernent
l6galis 6 , pourvous 'envoyer par votre Ministre a Paris, j'apprens
que votre charg6 daffaires en France, vient d'en faire la demande au nom de Monsieur Gallatin, afin de pouvoir ex 6 cuter
dans les Etats Unis de l'Amerique, et que cet acte alloit 6tre
exp6di6. Je regrette que le retard qu' 6 prouve votre lettie ne
rn'ait pas permis de satisfaire plut~t A votre desir de Mettre'en
execution les volont6s bienfaisantes et philantropiques du grand
hornme, que nous pleurons. J'ai 'honneur de v )us remercier
du d6tail interessant que vous me donnez daris votre lettre au
sujet de vos 6migr 6 s et vous prie d'agr6er l'assurance de ma
plus haute estime et de mon respectueux d6vouernent.
F. X. ZELTNEIR.

Exhibit E
Monsieur, Ayant en l'avantage de jodir pendant plqs de
vingt ann6es de 'amiti6 toute particuliere de l'illustre d6funt,
qui en a pass6 plus de quinze dans ma maison je n'ai pu ignorer
les relations amicales qu'il a ctihiv6 avec vous: une amit6
fond6e sur lestime r6ciproque, ne pouvoit qu'6tre durable; aussi
suis je bien persuad& des regrets que vous causera la nouvelle
de son d6c~s si peu attendu. II en avoit quitt6 en Mai 1815,
pour r6pondre aux desirs que lui avait temoign6 l'Empereur
de Russie de conf6rer avec lui A Vienne sur le sort de la Pologne; de Vienne ii est revenu jusqu' A Soleure en Suisse ou
ii a demeur6 chez mon fr6re en attendant que les circonstances
decident s'il doit aller dans sa patrie ou revenir ici dans I'asile
qu'il s'6tait choisi; ii 6tait sur le point de prendre le dernier
parti quand la mort vint 1' enlever a sa patrie, ii a aussi de nombreux amis parmi lesquels je sais que vous 6tes au premier
rang. C'est cette consid6ration qui m'a fait un devoir de vous

annoncer directement cette nouvelle.
Comme le G6n6ral Kosciuszko a dispos6 de la majeure partie de sa fortune ew taveur de mes enfans dames. nieces, fre-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

res et belle sceur, et que je suis en outre tr~s 1i6 avec ses parents
que je compte aller voir en Pologne, je vous prie de vouloir
donner des renseignements sur le capital qu'il a laiss6 entre
vos mains et autres objets qui pourraient 6tre 1 votre connaissance; vous obliger6s infinement celui qui a l'honneur d'6tre,
avec estime et haute consideration,
Monsieur, votre tris humble et ob6issant serviteur,
P. J. ZELTNER.

The circuit court dismissed the bill of the complainant, and
he prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr Key, for the appellant; and by
Mr Wirt and Mr Z. C. Lee, fbr the appellee.
For the appellant, it was contended, that when this case was
before the court in 1817, 12 Wheat. Rep. 169, it was then decided without prejudice, in order that probate might be taken,
in the proper court, of the testament exhibited. This having
been now done, probate being made in the orphan's court of
Washington -county, of the paper exhibited, as the last will
and testament of Thaddeus Kosciuszko:
It will be contended for the appellant, that the same is to be
considered as a valid testamentary act, and that the appellant
was entitled to a decree against the administrator with the
will annexed, for the. amount of the legacy and interest.
As the court gave no opinion upon the merits, or on the
principles of law governing the facts, of the case, the arguments of the counsel are not reported.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause wis formerly before the court, and the decision
then had is reported in 12 Wheat. R. 169. The bill is now
substantially the same with the former bill, except that there
is an allegation that the instrument set forth as a testamentary
instrument, executed at Paris on the 28th of June 1826, in
favour of the plaintiff, "has been admitted to probate, and
duly proved in the orphan's court of Washington county," in
this district. But the bill does not go on to state that it has
been duly established by that as a valid will, according to the
law of France, though that is averred to be' the place of dorfi

SUPREME COURT.
(Armstrong v. Lear.]

cil of Kosciuszko at the time of its execution. The bill, however, does assert, that the instrument is a last will and testament, to all intents and purposes, and must operate as such,
and revoke, pro tanto, the bequests and appropriation in the
prior will, of which Mr Jeffersonwas named executor.
The answer of the administrator (Lear) is. substantially the
same as his former answer, admitting the execution of the inqtrument, but submitting to the court (without denying in a
formal and direct manner the validity of the will as such, according to the law of France), vhether it will decree the
defendant to pay the money to the plaintiff" upon an instrument made under the circumstances, and authenticated in the
manner that the aforesaid instrument is, and whether the said
instrument shall have effect to revoke'or alter any part of said
Kosciuszko's will, solemnly executed and left in the hands of his
executor in this country," &c. &c. This is certainly a very
informal and loose mode of putting in issue, if upon the bill
such a question can be tried, the validity of a will made in a
foreign country, whose laws are not brought before the court;
either by averment or evidence. But the answer contains a
new allegation, that certain persons residing in Elurope have
filed a bill in the circuit court of the district of Columbia,
against him, the administrator, claiming a large portion of the
assets, if not the whole, as creditors ot mortgagees of the
said Kosciuszko; and certain persons, also residing in Europe,
have filed another bill against him (it was probably meant in
the same court), claiming the whole assets, as heirs at law of
the said Kosciuszko, and therefore as distributees of the said
assets. None of the parties to either of these latter bills are
made parties to the present bill. And we are of opinion, that
the persons claiming as heirs of Kosciuszko, should be made
parties, that they may have an opportunity to contest the
plaintiff's title, as the real parties in interest, the administrator
being but a mere stake holder.. Indeed, we think that all
three of the bills ought (if possible) to be brought to a hearing
at the same time in the circuit court, in order that a final disposition may, at the same time, be made of all of the questions
arising in all of them.
We wish also to attract the attention of counsel to some
other considerations, which may become important in future

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

stages of the cause; and especially, in the aspect under which
the present bill and answer are framed. In the first place, if
the intention is to put in issue (as it seems to be), not only the
construction and operation of the testamentary instrument in
favour of the plaintiff, but its validity and effect as a will, it is
material that the law of Prance, the place of the domicil of Kosciuszko at the timne of its execution, should be brought before
the court, and established as matter of fact; for the court cannot judicially take notice of foreign laws; but they must be
proved by proper evidence. The present allegations of the
bill and answer are quite too loose for this purpose ; and they
should be amended,. and made more distinct and direct. We
do not mean to express any opinion, whether this court can
examine into the point of the validity of the instrument as a
will according to the law of France, or whether it belongs exclusively to the orphan's court of the county of Washington.
That is a question which it may be fit hereafter to examine,
if it should be pressed in argument.
In the next place, there may arise some nice questions of
international law, in which the fact of the domicil of Kosciuszko at the time of his birth, at the time of his making the
witl of which Mr Jefferson was named executor, and at the time
of his death, may become material. We do not mean to say,
what is the true rule that is to govern in cases of wills' of personalty, whether it be the'rule of the native domicil, or of the
domicil at the time of the execution of the will, or of the domicii at the death of the party, where there have been changes
of domicil. These are points, which ought, under the circumstances of this eOase, to be left open for argument. But the
facts oriiwhich theoargument should rest, ought to be distinctly
averred in the bhllli
and met in the answer.
The place of-domicil of Kosciuszko at the time of his death,
may also become material under another aspect of the case,
viz. the question, who are his heirs, entitled to the succession
ab intestato, or under the other will or wills executed by him,
to which reference is made in some of the papers in the case.
The persons claiming as such heirs, must establish their title
under, and according to the law of his domicil at the time of
his death. So that perhaps it may become material, if Switzerland was the domicil of Kosciuszko at the time of his death,
VOL. VI1.1-K

SUPREME COURT.
[Armstrong v. Lear.]

to bring the law of that country distinctly, as matter of fact,
before the court. The court have, in another case(a) expressed
their desire to have the other will or wills made by Kosciuszko,
put regularly upon the record to ascertain whether they have
any bearing upon the merits of the present case.
It is also material to observe, that the answer of the administrator relies on a letter written by Kosciuszko to Mr Jefferson
in September 1817, as a revocation of the supposed testamentary paper in favour of Armstrong, and a republication of the
first will ; and yet that letter is not produced in evidence, nor
even the extract verified ; so that there is a total deficiency of
proof as to this most material fact. This defect ought to be
supplied.
These observations have been thought fit by the court, to be
suggested to the counsel on both sides, on the present occasion.
Under the complicated circumstances of the present case, and
the important bearings of foreign law upon it, it is very desirable, that if it should come again before us, all the facts, and
all the lights necessary for a final decision may be furnished,
without submitting it to farther embalrassments.
The court decree, that the decree of. the circuit court dismissing the bill be reversed, and that the cause be remanded,
with leave to make new parties, and for other proceedings.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court, dismissing the bill in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with
leave to make new parties, and for other proceedings to be had
therein according to law and justice, and in conformity to the
opinion of this court.
(a) Estho v. Lear, 7 Peters 130.

