JANUARY TERM 1834.

HENRY WHEATON AND

591

ROBERT DONALDSON, APPELLANTS V.

RICHARD PETERS AND JOHN GRIGG.
Copyright. From the authorities cited in the opinion of the court, and others
which might be referred to, the law appears to be well settled in England,
that, since the statute of 8 Anne, the literary property of an author in his
works can only be asserted under the statute; and that notwithstanding the
opinion of a majority of the judges in the great case of Miller v. Taylor
was in favour of the common law right, before the statute; it is still considered in England as a question by no means free from doubt.
That an author at common law has a property in his manuscript, and may
obtain redress against any one who deprives him of it, or by obtaining a
copy endeavours to realize a profit by its publication, cannot be doubted ;
but this is a very different right from that which asserts a perpetual and
exclusive property in the future publication of the work, after the author
shall have published it to the world,
The argument, that a literary man is as much entitled- to the product of his
labour as any other member of society, cannot be controverted, And the
answer is, that he realizes this product in the sale of his works, when first
published.
In what respect does the right of an author differ from that of an individual
who has invented a most useful and valuable machine? In the production
of this, his mind has been as intensely enghged, as long and perhaps as
usefully to the public, as any distinguished author in the composition of his
book. The result of their labours may be equally beneficial to society ; and
in their respective spheres, they may be alike distinguished for mental
vigour. Does the common law give a perpetual right to the author, and
withhold it from the inventor ? And yet it has never been pretended that
the latter could hold, by the common law, any property in his invention,
after he shall have sold it publicly. It would seem therefore that the existence of a principle which operates so unequally, may well be doubted. This
is not a characteristic of the common law. It is said to be founded on principles ofjustice, and that all its rules must conform to sound reason.
That a man is entitled to the fruits of his own labours must be admitted; but
he can enjoy them only, except by statutory provision, under the rules of
property which regulate society, and which define the rights of things in
general.
It is clear, there can be no common law-of the United States. The federal
government is composed of twenty-four sovereign and independent states,
each of which 11a1 have its local usages, customs and common law. There
is no principle which pervades the union, and has the authority of law, that
is not embodied in the constitution or laws of the union. The common law
could be made a part of our system by legislative asdoption.
When a common law right is asserted, we look to the state in which the controversy originat'd.
When the ancestors of the citizens of the United States migrated to this

SUPREME COURT.
['Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]
country, they brought with them, to a limited extent, the English common
law, as part of their heritage. No one will contend, that the common law,
as it existed in England, has ever been in force in all its provisions, in any
state in this union. It was adopted only so far as its principles were suited
to the condition of the colonies : and from this circumstance we see, what
is the common law in one state, is not so considered in another. The judicial decisions, the usages and customs of tile
respective states, nust determine how far the common law has been introduced, and sanctione.6 in
each.
If the common law, in all its provisions, has not been introduced into Pennsylvania, to what extent has it been adopted ? Must not this court have
some evidence on the subject? If no copyright of an author, in his work,
has been heretofore asserted there, no custom or "usage established, no
judicial decisions been given ; can the conclusion be justified, that, by the
common law of Pennsylvania, an author has a perpetual property in the
copyright of his works. These considerations might well lead the court to
doubt the existence of ths law ; but there are others of a more conclusive
character.
In the eighth section of the first article of the constitution of the United States
it is declared, that congress shall have power " to promote the progress of
science and the useful arts, by securing, for a limited time, to authors and
inventors, the exclusive righito their respective writings and inventions."
The word " secure," as used in the constitution, could not mean the protection of an acknowledged legal right. It refers to inventors, as well as
authors : and it has never been pretended by any one, either in this country
or in England, that an inventor has a perpptual right, at common law, to
sell the thing invented.
It is presumed, that the copyright recognized in the act of congress, and
which was intended to be protected by its provisions, was the property
which an author has, by the common law, in his manuscript, which would
be protected by a court of chancery ; and this protection was given, as well
to books published under the provisions of the law, as to manuscript copies.
Congress, by the act of 1790, instead of sanctioning an existing perpetual
right in an author in his works, created the right secured for a limited time
by the provisions of that law.
The right of an author to a perlpetual copyright, does not exist by the common
law of Pennsylvania.
No one can deny, that where the legislature are about to vest an exclusive
right in an author or in an inventor, they have the power to provide the
conditions on which such right shall be enjoyed; and that no one can avail
himself of such right, who does not substantiatly comply with the requisites of
the law. This principle is familiar as it regards patent rights ; and it is the
same iri
relation to the copyright of a book. If any difference* should be
made, as respects a strict conformity to the law, it would seem to be nore reasonable to make the requirement of the author, rather than of the inventor.
The acts required by the laws of the United States, to be done by an author to
*secure his copyright, are in the order in which they must naturally transpire. First, the. title of the book is to be deposited with the clerk, and the
record he makes, must be inserted in the first or second page ; then the
public notice in the newspapers is to be given ; and within, six months after
the publication of the book, a iopy
must be depositedin the depnftm ent ofstate,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]
It has been said, these are unimportant acts. If they are indeed wholly unimportant, congress acted unwisely in requiring them to be done. But
whether they are unimportant or not, is not for the rpourt to determine, but
the legislature ; and in what light they were considered by the legislature,
the court can only know by their official acts. Judging of those acts by
this rule, the court are not at liberty to say, they are unimportant, and may
be dispensed with: They are acts which the law requires to be done; and
may this court dispense with their performance ?
The security of a copyright to an author, by the acts of congress, is not a
technical grant of precedent and subsequent conditions. All the conditions
are important: the law requires them to be performed, and, consequently,
their performance is essential to a perfect title. On the performance of a
part of them, the right vests; and this was essential to its protection under
the statute : but other acts are to be done, unless congress have legislated
in vain, to render this righL perfect. The notice could not. be published
until after the entry with the clerk; nor could tile book he deposited with
the secretary of state until it was published. But they are acts not less important than those which are required to be done previously. They form a
part of the title; and until they are performed the title is not perfect.
Every. requisite under both the acts of congress relative to copyrights, is
essential to the title.
The acts cf congress authorizing the appointment of a reporter of the decisions
of the supreme court of the United States, require the delivery of eighty
copies of each volume of the reports to the department of state. The delivery of these copies does not exonerate the reporter from the deposite of
a copy in the department of state, required under the copyright act'of congress of 1790. The eighty copies delivered under the reporter's act, are
delivered for a different purpose, anti cannot excuse the deposite of one
volume as especially required by the copyright acts.
No reporter of the decisions of the supreme court has, nor can he have, any
copyright in the written opinions delivered by the court: and the judges of
the court cannot confer on any reporter any such right.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The case as stated in the opinion of the court was as follows:
"The complainants in their bill state, that Henry Wheaton
is the author of twelve books or volumes, of the reports of cases
argued and adjudged in the supreme court of the United
States, and commonly known as 'Wheaton's Reports;' which
contain a connected and complete series of the decisions of said
court, from the year 1816 until the year 1827. That before
the first volume was published, the said Wheaton sold and
transferred his copyright in the said volume to Matthew Carey
of Philadelphia; who, before the publication, deposited a printed
copy of the title page of the volume in the clerk's office of the
district court of the eastern. district of Pennsylvania, where he
VOL. VIII.-3 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

resided. That the same was recorded by the said clerk according to laW, and that a copy of the said record was caused by
said Carey to be inserted at full length inthe page immediately
following the title of said book. And the complainants further
state, that they have been informed-and believe, that all things
which are necessary and requisite to be done in and by the
provisions of the acts df congress of the United States, passed
the 31st day of May 1790 and the 29th day of April 1802, for
the purpose of securing to authors and proprietors the copyrights of books, and for other purposes, in order to entitle the
said Carey to the benefit of the said acts; have been done.
"It is further stated, that said Carey afterwards conveyed
the copyright in the said volume to Matthew Carey, Henry C.
Carey and Isaac Lea, trading under the firm of Matthew Carey
and Sons; and that said firm, in the year 1821, transferred the
said copyright to the complainant, Robert Donaldson. That
this purchase was made by an arrangement with the said
Henry Wheaton, with the expectation of a renewal of the right
of the said Henry Wheaton under the provisions of the said
acts of congress; of which renewal he, the said Robert Donaldson, was to have the benefit, until the first and second editions
(,f the said volume which lie, the said Donaldson, was to publish, should be sold. That at the time the purchase was made
from Carey and Sons, a purchase was also made of the residue
of the first edition of the firstvolume, which they had on hand ;
and in the year 1827 he published another edition of said
volume, a part of which still remains unsold.
"The bill further states, that for the purpose of continuing
to the said Henry Wheaton the exclusive right, under the provisions of the said acts of congress, to the copy of.the said volume
for the further term of fourteen years, after the expiration of
the term of fourteen years from the recording of. the title of the
said volume in the clerk's office as aforesaid; the said Robert
Donaldson, as the agent of Wheaton, within six months before
the expiration of the said first terni of fourteen years, deposited
a printed copy of the title of the said volume in the clerk's office
of the district court of the southern district of New York, where
the said Wheaton then resided; and caused the said title to be
a second time recorded in the said clerk's office; and also
caused a copy of the said record to be a second time published

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

in a newspaper printed in the said city of New York, for the
space of four weeks, and delivered a copy of the said book
to the secretary of state of the United States; and that all
things were done agreeably to the provision of. the said act of
congress of May 31st, 1790, and within six months before the
expiration of the said term of fourteen years.
"The same allegations are made as to all the other volumes
which have been published; that the entry was made in the
clerk's office and notice given by publication in a newspaper,
before the publication of each volume ; and that a copy of each
volume was deposited in the department of state.
"The complainants charge, that the defendants have lately
published and sold, or caused to be sold, a volume called
' Condensed Reports of Cases in the Supreme Court of the
United States,' containing the whole series of the decisions
of the court from its organization to tle commencement of
Peters's Reports at January term 1827. That this volume
contains, without any material abbreviation or alteration, all
the reports of cases in the said first volume of Wheaton's Reports, and that the publication and sale thereof is a direct violation of the complainants' rights, and an injunction, &c. is
prayed.
The defendants in their answer deny that their publication
was an infringement of the complainants' copyyright, if any
Uney had ; and further deny that they had any such right, they
not having complied with all the requisites to the vesting of
such right' under the acts of congress."
The bill of the complainants was dismissed by the decree of
the circuit court; and-they appealed to this court.(a)
The case was argued by Mr Paine and Mr Webster, for the
appellants; and by Mr Ingersoll, by a printed argument, and
Mr Sergeant, for the defendants.
Mr Paine, for the appellants, contended:
1. An author was entitled, at common law, to a perpetual
property in the copy of his works, and in the profits of their
ia'The case was decided in the circuit court by Judge HoPJuRNSON, MI
Justice BIDW IN having been absent on the arguneit and decision thereof.
The opiuioui ofh
*udgc IlaohiIIson is inztited ill th Apipendix. No. 11.

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.

publication ; and to recover damages for its injury, by an action
on the case; and to the protection of a court of equity.
The laws of all countries recognize an author's property in
his productions. In England, beyond all question, an author
had, atcommon law, the sole and exclusive property in his copy.
This was decided in Miller v. Taylor, 4 Burr. 2303. This property was placed by its defenders, and they finally prevailed,
upon the foundation of natural right; recognized by the laws,
ordinances, usages and judicial decisions of the kingdom, from
the first introduction of printing.

The opponents of literary property insisted, that an author
had no natural right to his copy; and resorting to those laws
which are supposed to have governed property before the social
compact, they maintained, that because the copy was incapable
of possession it was impossible to have property in it. Mr J.
Yates, the great opponent of literary propearty, and who has
probably said all that ever was or can be said against it, urges
that it is impossible to appropriate ideas more than the light or
air (4 Burr. 2357, 2365) ; forgetting that books are not made
up of ideas alone, but are, and necessarily must be clothed in a
language, and embodied in a form, which give them an individuality and identity, that make them mole distinguishable
than any other personal property can be. A watch, a table, a
guinea, it might be difficult to identify ; but a book never.
Cited Blackstone's Commentary and Christian's notes, to show
the nature of literary property.
The court are referred to the able opinions of Willis, J.
Aston, J., and.Lord Mansfield, in Miller v. Taylor, 4 Burr. 2310,
2335, 2395. They agreed not only, that an author had a property at common law, but that it was perpetual : notwithstanding the statute of Anne.
Not long after that decision, however, the question as to
the perpetuity of an author's property, was brought before the
house of lords; and it was there decided, that it was not perpetual, its duration being limited by the statute of Anne. Yet
even upon this point, the twelve judges were equally divided
(if we include Lord Mansfield, who did not vote, as he was a
peer), and there were eleven out of twelve who maintained,
thai an author had a property at comtnon law, in his copy.
See Donaldson v. Beckett, 4 Burr. 2408 ; 2, Br. P. C. 129.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

The decrees of the star chamber show, that that court admitted and protected authors, as early as 1556. Maughant
12, 13. Ordinances of parliament, as early as 1641-, recognize
and protect the owner's propertyin his copy. These ordinances were several times repealed. MatighIrn 13, 14. In
1662 and 1679, acts of parliament were passed, prohibiting any
person from printing, without the cqnsent of the owner of the
copy. Maugham 15, 16.
In the reign of Charles II., there were several cases in tile
courts, in which the ownership of the copy by authors is treated
as the ancient common law: and in one case, the case in
Croke's Reports, the right of the author was sustained, even
against the claim of the king's prerogative to publish all law
books. Chief Justice Hale presided. Maugham 19; 4 Burr.
2316.
In the reign of Anne, when the perpetual ownership of literary property wats thus firmly established, the booksellers,
annqyed by the -piracy of unprincipled and irresponsible adventurers, applied to parliament for protection. A bill was accordinglkr brought in for the purpose, entitled "an act to secure
the property of authors." In committee, its title was changed
to that of " an act to vest authors with their copies, for the
times therein mentioned." Maugham 20 -27.
And the act
declared, thatauthors should havean exclusiveright for twentyone years aiid no longer. In this shape it was passed.
Notwithstanding te strong and explicit, terms of the statute
of Anne, both as to vesting the author with his right, and limitingits duration, (terms not to be found in our act); the courts,
by an uninterrupted series of decisions, from the passing of the
statute down to the case of Donaldson v. Beckett, maintained,
that an author still had his original perpetual common law
right and property; and we have seet, that had Lord Mansfield
voted in that case, the twelve judges would have been equally
divided.
For a review of the common law property of an author, and
of the legislationi upon the subject in Englanid and the United
States, cited, the American Jurist, vol. 10, p. 61, &c., No. for
July 1833.
21.
The common law property of an auth6r is not taken away
by the constitution of the United States. T'he states have not

SUPRE ME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

surrendered to the union their whole power over copyrights,
but retain a power concurrent with the power of congress ; so
far, that an author may enjoy his common law property, and
be entitled to common law remedies, independently of the acts
of congress. It is one of those concurrent powers, where the
power of the state cease6, only when it actually conflicts with
the exercise of the powers of congress.
In the constitutional clause relating to the rights of authors
and inventors, there are two subjects, distinct enough in themselves, and only united by the form of expression. This comprehensiveness of expression, we know, belongs to the constitution; and that the aim of its framers was brevity. The
expression is not sp importaht, for in that instrument we are to
look for substance and intention.
Although united in this clause, and for the same purpose of
being secured by congress, the subjects of patents and of copyrights have litte analogy. They are so widely different, that
the one is property, the other a legalized monopoly. The one
may be held and enjoyed without injury to others ; the other
cannot, without great prejudice. The one is a natural right,
the other in soiie measure against natural right.
But because they both come from invention or mental labour,
and in addition, because they are so joined in the constitution ;
we have become accustomed to regard them as in all respects
alike, and equally depen~dcnt on the legislative favour for existe ce and protection.
Upon this point the counsel for the appellants argued at
large, that the principles which applied to copyrights were different from those which regulated the property of inventions
secured by a patent. That they were inserted in the clause of
the constitution for brevity and *comprehensiveness. That the
framers of the constitution probably designed to give congress
the complete and exclusive power over patents ; but it did not
follow from this, that the same was introduced in relation rto
copyrights.
It is important to examine the true rules of construction
which are applicable to this clause in the constitution.
This is the first instance in which this court has been called
upon to pronounce, whether the power given in this clause is
an exclusive or a concurrent power; or as to the extent of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

Consequently the rules
est ' lied as to the construction of that instrument,. have all
been in relation to other powers, and.powers of a very different
character.
All the other powers in the constitution conferred on congress or yielded by the states, are national or political, and for
national and political purposes. This is the only instance of
a power being conferred, unless incidentally, over private property. This is a power over private property, not incidental
to a national power, but with an immediate, primary and single
reference to the property. The rule of construction as to the
grant of the political and national powers may not be suited to
this. It has been held as to them, that a rule of strict construction was not to be adopted.
But the question here is as to private right. And the ques-.
tion is whether the constitution takes away a private right, or
property at common law. And why should we not apply the
same rule of construction to such a constitutional provision, as
we do to a statute, in derogation of common law right? The
rule is, that such statutes are to be construed strictly, because
they abridge the right. The reasoi of the rule extends to the
constitution, whenever it is in derogation of common right.
For this rule see 10 Mod. 282; 4 Bac. Ab. 550, 650.
Other common law rules in relation to statutes affecting
private rights or common law rights, would seen to be peculiarly applicable to this clause of the constitution ; although
they may not be generally referred to as guides in construing
the constitution. These will be found in I B). Com. 87; 1
Inst. 111, 115; 1 Bl. Coin. 89; Plowd. Rep. 206; 13 Mod.
118; Plowd. 113; 1 Bac. 11, 18, 38;,1 Bac. 3, 5; 2 Burr. 803,
805 ; Coin. Dig. Action on"Stat. C. G. ; Salk. 212 ; 19 Vin.
Ab. Stat. E 6; 1 Story's Coin. 436, 384, 3087, 397, 411, 401;
Martin v. Huntc , 1 Wheat. Rep. 326, 410.
With these general guides of construction, it is inquired
whether the power granted to congress by the constitution
transfers the whole subject of property of authors to the exclusive anuthotity and control of, congress; so that the property of
an author ceases to exist at all, without the legislation of congress: or whether it leaves the author in the enjoyment of his

.power conferred by it on congress.

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

property, as he had it before the adoption of the constitution;
and merely attempts to improve what; was supposed to be an
imperfect, enjoyment by authorizing congress to secure it.
This is not the question whether the power is concurrent or
exclusive. If the author's common law property is not taken
away, nor made wholly dependent upon the legislation of congress ; but if congress possess the mere partial power to secure
it, then the property remains as at common law, subject to
state legislation,%and the auxiliary legislation of congress.
Thd question now is simply as to a right of property. If we
take the rules above cited from Mr Justice Story's Commentaries
as guides of interpretation ; can there be a question as to the
nature of the.delegation of power, or its extent or amount .
The delegation is to secure exclusive rights; not to grant property or confirhn property, or grant rights or confirm or establish rights, but to secure rights.
We are wiibg to adinit that this language is broad enough,
and is adapted td transfer to congress the whole legislation
and control over patents. There is at common law no property in them ; there is not even a legal right entitled to protection. They have a moral or equitable right, but unknown
to the law. Congress, therefore, when authorised to secure
their rights, are authorised to do every thing ; and full power
over the subject is delegated to them.
But it does not follow, that because congress are authorised
to create de novo, and to secure the right to patents by mere
force of the word secipre, that they are therefore authorised by
force of that word to create de novo, and then secure copyrights. For a very different process would then take place in
relation to the two things. In creating patents they take
nothing away. They deprive the inventor of no property.
He had nothing. and they gave him all merely by securing.
But. if by the word secure, they are atithorised to give an author
all that he is afterwards to possess, the operation effects a total
deprivation of his common law property. 8O that to allow the
word "1 secure," to confer the same power over copyrights, as
over rights-to inventions, is to make it a woid of totally different meaning and import in the one case, from the other. The
langi age isnot broad enough, nor is it adapted to the taking,

JA UARY TERM 1834.
tWheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

away of property or pre-existing rights. We are therefore to
reject the, argument, that a copyright must exist and be held
.solely under the constitution; because patent rights must be.
•What is there then in the delegation of the power to secure
an author's exclusive rights, which should be construed to
deprive him of his property, and make him dependent wholly
on the security provided? Are not the words in themselves
plain and clear-; and is not the sense arising from them distinct
and perfect? and if so, is interpretation admissible ? and if not,
is,
not the question settled? For it never can be pretended
that the naked words, authorising congress to secure rights,
take away or affect the property inwhich those rights exist.
There would seem to be nothing, therefore, in the plain
meaning of the word secure, which should alter, affect, or take
away an author's property in his writings. Indeed, it seems
too plain to admit of aigument, that when the constitution
authoriges congress to secure an acknowledged pre-existing
right, and does not authorize them to grant it; it is an express
declaration that it subsists, and is to subsist, independently of
their power.
But it may be said, that all the author can ask, or have, is
security for his rights, and that tlis is all he had at common
law: and that the constitutional clause does not take away
his security, or any part of it, but only transfers to congress the
power and duty to secure him, which before belonged to the
states.
We answer, that if this construction is derived from the import of the words themselves, it is strained beyond all bounds
allowed by the rules of construction. There is the strongest
reason to believe, from the language of the constitution, that
those who framed it, adopted it with a particular view to preserve the common law right to copyrights untouched. If this
clause in the constitution is to be construed as taking away
the author's common law right, it deprives him of a part of
the security he had at common law; and does mote than
merely transfer to congress a power and duty which before
belonged to the states. It is, then, asked, whether the word
secure can- be found to possess any such meaning as to take
away, and diminish, and disturb, either by the common law
or constitutional rules of construction.
voL. vi,.-4 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

The meaning of the clause of the constitution, when tried
by the usual rules of interpretation, is shown to be as contended by the appellants. Cited, 19 Viner's Abr. 510, E. 6;
and see 2 Inst. 2d ed. ; Plowden 113 ; 1 Ch. P1. 144 ; Almy
v. Harris, 5 Johns. Rep. 175; The President, &c. of the
Farmers' Turnpike Road v. Coventry, 10 Johns. Rep. 389.
Chief Justice Marshall (12 Wheat. 653, 654) lays great
stress on the framers of the constitution having been acquainted with the principles of the common law, and acting in
reference to them. Most of them were able lawyers; and
certainly able lawyers drew up, and revised the instrument.
Are we, then, to believe, that if they had any design to lake
away the common law right, or to authorize congress to take
it away o to impair it; they would, knowing the rules of construction cited, and like common law maxims, have used the
language they have? There is the strongest reason to believe,
from the language, it was adopted for the purpose of preserving it, and to reserve from congress any power over it. This
probability arises, almost irresistibly, from the language used;
and under the circumstances that it was used.
The case of Donaldson v. Beckett was decided in the house
of lords in 1774. This case, and all the law on this subject,
discussed and decided by it, must have been known to the
lawyers of the convention. The opinion of the judges in the
case of Miller v. Taylor, must also have been familiar to them.
From the statute of Anne, then, down to 1774, there had
been in England a continual contest' about the words of that
statute, and whether it was a statute to secure a right already
existing. It agitated the literary world especially, because it
belonged to them; and it agitated the courts. Cases of unequalled importance arose out of, and were decided upon the
use of these words. Yeates, J. calls the case of Miller v. Taylor, a case of "great expectation." This case occurred in
1769, and immediately followed the still greater case of Donaldson v. Beckett, in which the twelve judges gave each an
opinion in the house of lords. These cases, therefore, occurred
and were reported a few years before -the adoption of the constitution.
Had the convention designed to take away, or to authorize
congless to take away the common law property, they would

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

have used the words vest, or grant; and would have carefully
avoided the word secure.
But what reason can be discovered why the framers of the
constitution should wish, or intend to take away, or authorize
congress to take away the common law right. What was
the mischief they had in view ?
Will it be said that the public have rights as well as the
author; and that it is impolitic to allow a perpetual right ?
Suppose we grant it. Yet, what has the constitution to do
with a mischief like this ? It does not require a national
power to cure it. The states were fully adequate to provide a
remedy themselves. And the states gave congress no powers,
which they could as well exercise themselves. Will it be pretended that the states could not regulate, limit or take away
the right within their own territories; and that it was necessary
to empower congress to do it ?
Will it be said that it was de'signed to take from the states
their power over copyright, lest, if a state were to protect the
rights of authors, the citizens of other states might be curtailed
of their rights within that state ? The answer is obvious.
No person can have any rights opposed to the author's. He
has the property, and it cannot stand in the way of another's
property or rights. Besides, the objection goes to the whole of
state legislation on any subject : for a state may, by its laws,
curtail or affect the rights of citizens of other states, in other
particulars, and why be so careful to prevent them in this?
As we have already shown, copyrights have, in these respects,
nbne of the mischiefs attending them which attend a right to
inventions.
There could be but one possible motive for making copyrights a national concern; and that was because the states
might not, or could not, individually, afford them a just protection. * From this single motive, what intention are we to infer?
That., and that only, apparent on the face of the constitution.
An intention to secure the right.
Why is it, however, that if the public good was had in view,
by the framers of the constitution, and not the author's benefit
singly, either as regards patents or copyrights, that they did
not undertake to guard the citizens of the several states against
the protection which the states might afford to inventions intro-

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

duced from abroad. For that, as well as for the printing
of foreign books, a state might, if it chose, grant monopolies.
But this, and other mischiefs to spring from state legislation,
it was thought proper to provide against.
It is contended that the case of copyrights is one within
the concurrent powers of the United States, and the states. It
is not within either of those kinds of exclusive powers enumerated in the Federalist (No. 34), but belongs to the other class
of powers.
What is the power here? A power to secure the right of
authors. And the question is whether the states may not protect and enforce the common law right, while the United States
secure it. Is such a power totally and absolutely contradictory and repugnant ? Is it not, on the contrary, perfectly consistent with the other. It is as consistent as a common law
remedy is with a statute remedy; it is the same thing. Both
may exist and act in concert, and no conflict can occur, unless
the state undertakes to deprive an author of what congress
has secured to him.. If that were a reason for taking away
the state power, it would be a reason for depriving them of all
power, for so long as they have power to legislate, they can
pass laws to interrupt those of congress. It is impossible to
imagine a case where a power of congress could receive so little interruption from the legislation of the states; because this
is a power primarily over private right, and not for national purposes ; and it is the only one of the kind in the constitution.
The opinions of this court have been uniform, that a concurrent power in cases like this, might exist and be exercised
by the states. See Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. Rep. 48 to
56 ; also Mr Justice Story's Commentaries 421 to 433.
It is believed that if the states have resigned to congress
their power over copyrights, and have none remaining in themselves, yet that they have given the power to congress with a
qualification and limitation, and have confined it in their
hands, as they had power to do, simply to securing the right
of the author. If they have any power besides this, it is
merely to abridge the period.
Next. Have congress impaired the author's right ? That
is, supposing the common law remedies to be gone, and that

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaten and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

the author can have no remedy unless he has published the
record, and deposited the copy in the secret~ry of state's office.
It is answered that they have most essentially. They have
entirely changed, and unnecessarily, the i hole title which aA
author had at common law, and the evidence on which it
rested. They have taken from him the natural common law
title, and the evidence to support it; and have given him one
of a most artificial and difficult chardcter. And i not a man's
title to property, his evidence of ownership, a part of the property itself, a part of its value? Is it not this which distinguishes real from personal estate, in some measure; and
gives, it a higher character ? Suppose a man were to lose his
title deeds, or one of them, what would be the value of his
property?
What title had a man before the statute, and what has he
now? Before the statute, it -was sufficient for him to prove
himself the author. This he could do by proof, in pais, in a
thousand ways. The proof of this is easy and imperishable,
because it is the natural proof. The name of the author on
the book, possession and claim of title alone, or first publication, would be prima facie sufficient evidence. And these
are inherent, and inseparable from almost every case as a part
of its natural incidents.
But suppose he must, as is contended, prove a compliance
with the requisites of the statutes. He is driven from all his safe
and easy common law proof. There can be no such thing as
prima facie evidence offered. Must he prove the publication for
four successive weeks, forty-two years after it was made? 'Is
he to keep a file of newspapers, and if he does, what proof has
he of publication? How is he to prove the delivery of the
volume? The law provides for no record. He must call a
witness, and then he cannot be safe for forty-two years, unless
he files a bill to perpetuate testimony. The evidence in the
case establishes the difficulty of such proof. Can a statute,
which thus loads a right with burthensome and needless regulations, and makes it wholly dependent on accidental mistake or omission, where it was free from them both, be said
not to impair an author's common law right of property ?
If, then, congress have not the power to impair the author's
propery, and if the requisites as to publication and delivery of

SUPREME COURT.
(Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

the copy, if made conditions precedent, do impair it; they are
so far unconstitutional ; and the appellants have a right to
claim the benefit of the act without performing them.
4. A citizen of one state has the same common law property in his copy, in other ctates, as the citizens of these states
can have; and the common law property exists in the state of
Pennsylvania: consequently, the complainants are entitled to
a copyright at common law in that state, and can have a
remedy, in the circuit court of the United States, for its violation, independently of the provisions of the act of congress;
the citizenship of the parties giving the state jurisdiction.
The constitution of the United States provides, that "the
citizens of each state shall be entitled to all privileges and immuoities of citizens of the several states."
The constitution, by this provision, designed to make, and
does in fact make us one nation, living under the same laws.
It designed to give to all the citizens of the United States, not
merely the benefits and privileges secured to them by national
laws, but the benefit of all the laws of all the states, and the
privileges conferred by them. Under this provision, a citizen of
New York has all the privileges of the laws of Pennsylvania,
whatever they may be.
It is this provision which makes us one nation, and this only.
It is this alone which gives to all the citizens of the United
States uniform and equal civil rights throughout all the territories
of the nation. Other constitutional provisions secure political
advantages; but without this we should be a mere league, and
not a nation. We should be several distinct nations. Vattel
says (p. 159, book i. ch. 19), "t he whole of a country possessed by a nation, and subject to its laws, forms, as we have
said, its. territories, and it is a conimon country of all the individitials of the nation."
In this sense of a nation, this provision of the constitution
makes us one ; and makes all the states the common, country
of all the individuals- of the nation.
An author then, who is a citizen of one of the states, is
entitled to have his property in his copy protected in every
other state, accordirg to the laws of such state; without the aid
of any national law. The only question is, do the laws of the
state give an author a property i his copy ;. for if they do, who

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg]'

shall say he is not entitled to enjoy his property under such
laws, as much as any other kind of property ? Has not a citizen of New York a right to hold lands, or any other kind of
property under the laws of Pennsylvania 1' And if that state
were to attempt to deprive him of'the same rights as her own
citizens enjoy, would it not be a violation of this clause of the
constitution ? The truth is, a citizen of New York is, so far as
all his civil rights and privileges are concerned, a citizen of
Pennsylvania. See Mr Justice Story's Commentaries 674, 675.
An author's copyright at common law exists in Pennsylvania.
The American colonies brought hither, as their birthright
and inheritance, the common law, so far as it was applicable
to their situation. Judge Chase, in United States v. W'orrall,
1 Dal]. Rep. 384.
Chief Justice M'Kean, in 1 DalIl Rep. 67, says, the common
law has always been in force in Pennsylvania. Statutes made
before the settlement of the province have no force, unless convenient, and adapted to the circumstances of the country ; all
made since, have no force, unless the colonies are named. See
also page 74.
There never was a statute in Pennsylvania e ative to copyright; and the statute of Anne was passed atter the settlement of that state : the common law therefore prevails there.
5. The publication of the record in the newspapers, and the
delivery of the copy to the secretary of state, are not made
conditions precedent at all by the acts of congress, or if at all,
only as to the right to the security provided by the acts. A
non observance of the statutory directions in these particulars,
does not deprive the author of the ordinary remedies by an action on the case and bill in equity. Besides, the publication of
the record, and delivery of: the copy, were at most intended
only as a means of notice of the author's right; and actual
notice, in this case abundantly shown, dispenses with those
modes of constructive notice.
After stating the particular provisions of the act of 1790, the
counsel proceeded to argue, that, on the proper construction of
the act, the publication of the record, or the delivery of the
copy, is not in any way-connected with the right; and the
delivery of the copy has nothing to do, even with the penalties

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

and forfeitures imposed by it. The provisions of the act are,
in some respect, similar to those of the statute of Anne; and
it must have been drawn with reference to it. Congress, by
this law, did not think proper to'impose all the penalties which
are found in the act of Anne; because they were engaged in
discharging their constitutional power of securing the author's
right.
The copy to the secretary of state is a mere donation from
the author. Congress give him no equivalent for it. The
clerk is paid for the record; and what do government give the
nuthor for the copy, but security ? Have they a right to sell
the security ; to put a price on the exercise of their constitutional powers? What right does the constitution give them to
require a donation from the author ? And will it :be believed,
that they intended to forfeit his property if he did not furnish it?
. The month which may elapse after the right attaches, and
before publication, and the six months before depositing the
copy; show, that these things are not conditions precedent.
Natural rights are generally known by their own incidents.
Property alWays carries with it its own indicia of ownership;
and literary property not less than any other. The superaddition of record evidence, the highest known to law and all
that is required of ownership of real estate, was probably
deemed sufficient by congress; and they, therefore, required
no other of the right of an author. It would be a fair presumption, that when they had required enough, they would not go
on to require a superfluity.
But the publication of the record and delivery of the copy
have been held, by a very numerous, learned and able court,
on full argument (the court of errors in Connecticut, composed
of the twelve judges), to be only directory; and to have nothing
to do, with the author's right. Nicholas v. Ruggles, 3 Day's
Rep. 145.
But it is said, that although the publication and delivery of
the copy, are not conditions precedent by the act of 1790, they
are made so by the act of 1802 ; and that this has been decided
in the case of Ewer v. Coxe, 4 Wash. 487, as to the publication of the record.
The counsel then proceeded to comment on the decision of
Mr Justice Washington, in the case referred to; denying that

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v,Peters and Grigg.]

the language said by him to be contained in the first section
of the act of 1802, was contained in it; and asserting that the
meaning of the words used in the section, had been strained
by the judge. He contended, that the act of 1802 was not
intended to operate on the provisions of the preceding law, but
only to refer to them as established by that law. There is no
enacting language in the latter law; and without enacting
language, it can be no enactment.
It is the duty of this court, before it allows property to be
sacrificed, even if the words of an act are clear and free froni
doubt on their face; to look carefully at the intention of the
legislature, to look at the spirit of the law and its consequences, and at the old law, the mischief and the remedy.
The counsel then went into -an examination of both the
statutes, for the purpose of showing that, applying these principles, the construction of those acts should be such as was
maintained by the appellants. In the course of this exanination, he cited, 19 Vin. Abr. 510, E. 6; Plowd. 111 ; 2 Institutes 200 ; 1 Bl. Com. 87 ; University v. Beyer, 16 East
316 ; Postmaster General v. Early, 12 Wheat. 148.
The act of 1802 does not make the publication and delivery
conditions precedent, because it is impossible they should be
so. The first act vests the right on recording the title. It
then gives two months to publish the record, and six months
to deliver the copy. A condition precedent is an act to be
done precedently; and it is impossible to publish the record
until the record is first made, and the right attaches on rnaking the record.
The act of 1802 declares that the author, "before he shall
be entitled to the benefit of the act" of A793, shall, "in addition
to the requisites," &c. Now what was the benefit of that act?
It is entitled an act to secure the author's right; and the power
of congress is to secure the right, i. e. an existing right. How
does the act secure the right? Only by penalties and forfeitures. It gives no action on the case, no bill in equity; and if
it had given them, it would have been, as to them, wholly
inoperative, for no court had jurisdiction of them. What then
was meant by ; what, in fact, was, the "benefit of that act ."
Certainly the penalties and forfeitures; nothing else. We
VOL. Wiu,.4B

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

claim the benefit of the act of 1819, which expressly gives a
bill in equity, and the circuit court jurisdiction.
It is in vain to say that the acts in question are.conditions
precedent to the right. The right itself is recognised by the
constitution and law, as an existing right; and the right is not
given by the act, but is only secured by it. The security, as
we have shown, is the penalties and forfeitures, 'which we do
not now claim. The action on the case is a remedy founded
on the right, and not on the statute which gives none. And
this bill is founded on the right, and on the act of 1819. We,
therefore, get neither the, right nor remedy from the act of
1790; and what benefit do we claim from it ?
In support of the construction thus contended for, were
cited, Rules of Construction found in 6 Bac. Abr. 379, Statute

1, pl. 1; 383, pl.4,5; 387, pl. 6; 391, pl. 10; 19 Vin. Abr. 519,
Statute E. 6, pl. 86 ; 520, pl. 96 ; 525, pl. 129 ; 524, pl. 119;
528, pl. 156 ; 5 Vin. Abr. Condition 2 a. pl. 2, 3, 4, 5; 528,
pl. 154, 158.
It is agreed that the object of the requisites in the act is to
give notice, and statutes, however strong their language or
positive their enactments, which require things to be done
ior nfotice, are held not to apply; and that their provisions need
not be complied with, where actual notice is proved. Such
are the registry acts, and other similar acts, which declare
that instruments shall be absolutely void if not recorded. Le
Nev6 v. Le Nev6, 2 Atk. Rep. 650; Jackson ex dem. v. Burgett, 10 Johns.Rep. 460; Jackson ex dem. v. West, 10 Johns.
Rep. 466.
It is fully shown.by the evidence that the defendant had
notice; and a part of that evidence shows that the claim of the
appellant, Mr Wheaton, was admitted.
The rule is that the provisions of the registry acts do not
apply except in cases of bona fide purchasers. What is a bona
A purchaser without notice ; no matter what
fide parchaser
his property, or his attempt to get it, has cost him. Is Mr
Peters a bonafide purchaser ?
It is objected that the record of some volumes is taken out
as author and proprietor. In answer we say, it is the clerk's
duty to make out the record; and we cannot be held to forfeit
our property, because he has not done it correctly.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
(Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

But the record is right.

As author, and not having parted

with the right, Mr Wheaton was also proprietor. The act is
adapted to a proprietor as well as author, and to enable a proprietor who is not the author to secure a copyright. In our
case Mr Wheaton is described as author, and the super-addition of proprietor is mere surplusage.
6. The directions of the acts of congress as to the publication of the record and delivery of the copy to the secretary of
state; and the renewal of the right to the first volume have
been complied with; and the complainants have~offered all the
proof they are bound to offer of those facts.
In support of these positions, the counsel referred to the evidence in the record.
As to the delivery of copies to the secretary of state, he
stated, that the law is silent as to any proof. It directs no
memorandum of the deposit to be made. The presumption,
therefore, is, that none is made. And, in fact, 'they did not
begin to make any until about the close of these volumes.
It appears, that certificates were given, sometimes, latterly.
But the law does not direct them, does not know them; and
why should one take them ? Would they be evidence of any
thing if he had them ? And Mr Brent proves the greatest
irregularity as regards certificates and memoranda. Mr Carey
proves the same thing.
But the law does say, that the secretary of state shall preserve the copies in his office. This then is the evidence
required by law, that the volumes have always been in his
office, since within six months of theit publication. And this
is proved by Mr Brent's deposition. The volumes are and have
been there. It is for them to show that they were not placed
there by us under the law.
How can we prove, by parol, facts which occurred from sixteen to seventeen years before the proof taken in this cause?
The proof must be by parol; and such proof the law presumes
to be out of men's power after the lapse of six years. Without
the copies having actually been found there, the law would
presume that an act enjoined by law to be performed, was performed after such a lapse of time. It. would presume it, in
favour of right and natural justice against a wrong doer. See

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

a case of presumption, even of the enrolment of articles of
apprenticeship, against positive evidence to the contrary. The
King v. The Inhabitants of Long Buckley, 7 East 45.
But we have proved, positively, by the evidence of Mr Bient,
that eighty copies of every volume were delivered under the
reporter's salary act, within the six months after publication.
The four acts of congress allowing the reporter his salary, also
provide, that he shall within six months deliver eighty copies
to the secretary of state ; one of which he is to keep and transmit to his successor in office, of course to be preserved in the
office.
The fact is, that eighty-one copies were sent, but the law
giving the salary, not requiring more than eighty, the papers
in the department under these acts speak of but eighty ; and
all being sent to the department together, is the reason why
there was no minute, or memorandum, (r certificate, as in
some cases under the copyright law.
And is not this within the letter of the copyright law, the
delivery of the eighty copies alone? And if we have complied
with the letter of the law, ought it not to save us from a forfeiture of our property . Is it not within the spirit of the law ?
The judge in the cotrrt below insists it is for notice ; the counsel insist it is for notice. And is it not as good notice, if it is
there under one law, as under the other ? But the judge who
decided the case below says, that it is not required under the
salary law-to be kept in the office. It is submitted, that it is
as much required to be kept there under one law as another.
At all events, the condition, if it be a condition precedent, is
substantially performed by it ; and this, as has been shown, is
sufficient.
The copyright for the firsL volume of Wheaton's Reports was
renewed in New York, the place of residence of the author.
This was done before the publication of any volume of the Condensed Reports, containing any of the matter in Wheaton's
Reports. Mr Wheaton had not parted with his property in
them ; and by the third section of the act of 1790, it is required
that the title shall be deposited, and the record made in "the
clerk's office of the district court where the author shall reside."
Law reports, likoe other books, are objects of literary property;

JANUARY TERM 1834.
EWheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Giigg.]

and Mr Wheaton was the author of the reports in question in
this case, and entitled to the copyright in them. The other
complainant, Mr Donaldson, has a limited property in the copy
by assignment from Mr Wheaton.
It was never doubted in England, that law reports were the
subject of copyright. The only question was, whether the prerogative of the crown did not monopolize all law books, so as
to exclude an author's right. Cited in support of this point,
Roper v. Streater, Skin. Rep. 234 ; 4 Burr. 2316, 2403 ; Tonson v. Walker, 3 Swanston 673; 3 Ves. 709; 2 Bro. ParI.
Cases 100.
The prerogative right, however, is now abandoned, nnd has
long been in England. Maugham, 104, says, " it is now
treated as perfectly ridiculous."
Godson says the same thing
(Patents 322, 323). See 4 Burrows 2415, 2416, as to the
reason of-the prerogative. It there appears the king introduced printing into England.
It is not necessary, however, to produce cases to prove a
right so obvious, until cases are produced or principles established which show that it does not exist. There are necessarily but few cases, because the right has not been questioned.
One fact is enough, without cases. We know the great price
of law reports in England, and we know, of course, that but
one person does publish, viz. the proprietor: that there are
never conlemporaucous editions of the same reports: that a
single whole edition is exhausted before another is published,
and sotietimes lstsl half a century. Why is this ? Who prevents enterprize 1nd cupidity from participating in this field ?
What can it be except the copyright ?
As to the objection that the matter of which the report is
composed is not original ; we answer this is wholly unnecessary
in copyright* There is no analogy in that respect between
copyrights and patents. A wan who makes an Encyclopedia
may ha"e a copyright, although he does not write a word ot
it. And w.Carey v. Kearsley, 4 Esp. Rep. 168, where it was
attempted to show that the survey in which the copyright was
claimed, was made at the expense of the post office, and that
the copyright belonged to the post office, Lord Ellonborough
said, " I do not know that that will protect the defendant.
At law the first publisher, even though he has abused his trust

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton-and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

by procuring the copy, has a right to it; and to an action against
the person who publishes it without authority from him."
The salary of the reporter was iever designed to be a compensation in full, and to deprive him of his, copyright. Had
such an effect been intended, or thought of, it would have been
expressed. It stipulates an equivalent for the sum allowed
him, or a greater part of it, viz, eighty copies. When congress, by the last reporter's act, reduced the price of the volime
to fi e dollars, the copyright was considered.
M(Ir
Wheaton published his first volume without a salary.
He had been appointed reporter by the court, and was 'looking
to the profits of the copy as his only compensation. But it
was found unequal to the labour and time, and in truth no
compensation. In this state of things, to enable him to go on,
congress give him one thousand dollars (for which he gives
them bark eighty copies) ; and say nothing of its being an
equivalent for his copyright. The copyright was established in
England, and in this country, befdre the law was passed. And
is established pro'erty to be taken away by implication ? Does
any one believe that Mr Wheaton would have spent half a
year or more in making and publishing these reports, if he had
supposed he had not the copyright? After deducting the
eighty copies, the thousand dollars would not leave enough to
pay the expenses of a gentleman in Washington during the
term, and going and coming. Besides, he took steps to secure
his copyright every year. It was considered a copyright book.
Congress saw this and knew it. Their laws with him were
contracts, made under a full knowledge of existing facts. And
shall it be said, when they made no exception of the copyright,
and knew that he relied on it, that they intended to deprive
him of it ? It would have been a fraud unworthy of'congress;,
as it would have been disgraceful to an individual. Other
reporters in this country, in the state courts, who had salaries,
had always secured their copyright; (even Mr Peters has
secured his), and the right to do so was never doubted.
Mr Wheaton published the first volume without salary;
consequently this objection cannot apply to that.
As to the cases and abstracts, they are clearly Mr Wheaton's
own composition. He acquired the right to the opinions by
judges' gift. They invited him to attend at his own expense

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheatoi and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

and report the cases; and there was at least a tacit engagement
on their part to furnish him with such notes or written opinions
as they might draw up. This needs no proof: it is the course
of things, and is always done. The mere appointment proves
all this. Was this engagement, this understanding, ever altered 1 Do not the judges of this court know thatlMr Wheaton
believed he was acquiring a property in his reports ? Did they
not suppose he would be entitled to it, if he took the necessary
steps to secure it ?
Were not the opinions of the judges their own to give away .
Are opinions matter of record, as is pretended ? Was such a
thing ever heard of? They cannot be matters of record, in
the usual sense of the term. Record is a word of determinate
signification; and there is no law or custom to put opinions
upon record, in the proper sense of that term. Nor were they
ever put on record in this case. They were given, to Mr
Wheaton, in the first instance. Blackstone, 1 Comm., 71, 72,
shows that the reasons of the court are not matter of record.
The copy in the opinions, as they were new, original and
unpublished, must have belonged to some one. If to the
judges, they gave it to Mr Wheaton. That it did belong to
them is evident; because they are bound by no law or custom
to write out such elaborate opinions. They would have dischargedtheir duty by delivering oral opinions. What right,
then, can the public claim to the manuscript ? The reporter's
duty is to write or take down the opinions. If the court choose
to aid him by giving him theirs, can any one complain?
But we allege and prove that Mr Wheaton was the author
of the reports ; that he published them. This is enough to
entitle him to a copyright, until they prove that he is not.
The burden of proof is on them. (See Carey v. Ketrsley,
4 Esp. R. 168, already cited.)
It is contended that it is against public policy to allow reports to be copyrighted. And extravagant suppositions are
made, as, that an author might destroy them, or never publish them, or-put an unreasonable price on them.
Is one to be divested of property, is a common rule of law to
be overthrown, because the imagination of man can devise a
danger, which may arise, however improbable ? And besides,
in this case the reporter would lose his salary ;,and in all cases

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

he must lose his place, if he were guiltv of any of such absurdities.
As to enhancing the price, which is one of the evils apprehended, if the author were to do it unreasonably he would
lose his place ; and he must always do it to his own injury, for"
he would lose his sales and profit. In England, the statute of
54 Geo. III., amending the statute of Anne, omits the provision
in the statute of Anne intended to prevent too high a price.
This shows that experience had proved that no sich evil was
to be apprehended. In Germany, where a free, perpetual
copyright exists, books are cheaper than any where else in the
world. (Maugham 14, 15.)
Congress had power to apply the remedy, and they did apply
it, when they thought proper, by fixing the price.
It is attempted to put judicial decisions on the same ground
as statutes. It is the duty of legislators to promulgate their
laws. It would be absurd for a legislature to claim the copyright; and no one else can do it, for they are the authors, and
cause them to be published without copyright. Statutes never
;, ' ,yrighted.
v
Repotts always have been.
It is said that one employed by congress to revise and publish the statutes, might as well claim a copyright as*,a reporter. The difference is, one is employed to act as a mere
agent or servant, or clerk of the legislature, to prepare the
laws to be properly promulgated. He is engaged to do what
it is well understood never is copyrighted, and does not admit
of copyright. There is a distinct understanding, a contract,
that he is to do the work for his compensation, and not to claim
a copyright. But a reporter is not an agent employed by congress. He is, and is understood to be engaged for himself, as
principal; and congress buy eighty copies, and add a salary to
his profit from his copy. He was doing before the act what it
was understood he could copyright, and what he did copyright;
and the act does not intimate that there was to be any change;
and he went on copyrighting, and they renewed his salary
without any objection or stipulation.
It is the bounden duty of government to promulgate its statutes in print, and they always do it. It is not considered a
duty of government to report the decisions of courts, and they
therefore do not do it. The oral pronunciation of the inde-

JAN JARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

ments of courts is considered sufficient. Congress never employed a reporter, and they never gave any one any compensation, before Mr Wheaton. Mr Cranch reported without
compensation, and relied upon his copyright; and Mr Wheaton continued, with a full understanding that he was to report
in the same way.
Are the court prepared to deprive all the authors of reports
in this country of their copyrights ? Of property which they
have laboured to acquire, with the full belief, of all others as
well as of themselves, that they were to be legally entitled
to it ?
8. The publication of the defendants is a violation of the,
complainants' rights.
The quo animo of the publication is important. An abridgement was not contemplated; and the work was intended to be
supplied at less cost. This is stated in the proposals annexed
to the bill. The answer admits the decisions contained in
the third Condensed Reports to have been previously publisaed in Wheaton's Reports, and that it is intended to continue
the publication of the same. It is denied in these papers that
Mr Wheaton could have a copyright; and if he could, that he
has taken the necessary steps to secure it.
The actual violation of the complainants' rights consists in
having: first, printed the abstracts made by Mr Wheaton;
secondly, in taking the statements of the cases made by Mr
Wheaton, verbatim, from Wheaton's Reports; thirdly, in having
taken points and authorities, and, in some instances, the arguments, and in all cases oral opinions from Wheaton's Reports,
and for which, of course, no materials could be found elsewhere;
fourthly, in having printed the whole of the opinions, which,
it is not pretended, were found elsewhere. No resort was had
to the records for the statements of the cases.
The Condensed Reports are not a fair abridgement. Cited,
Butterworth v. Robinson, 5 Vesey 709; 1 American Jurist
157; Mangham 129 to 136.
The appellees submitted the following points, for the consideration of the court:
1. That the book styled "Wheaton's Reports," is not law
fully the subject of exclusive literary property.
VOL. viii.-4 c

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

2. If the book of reports of the complainants be susceptible
of exclusive ownership, such ownership can be secured only by
pursuing the provisions of certain acts of coigress.
3. Thq provisions of the acts of congress have not b;: .- observed and complied with, by the complainants, or others, in
their behalf.
4. Reports of the decisions of the supreme court, published
by a reporter appointed under the authority of the acts of congress, are not within the provisi~ns of the laws for the protection of copyrights.(a)
5. The entries of the copyrights by the appellant, claim more
than Mr Wheaton was, in fact or in law, entitled to, as "author," " proprietor," " author and proprietor," and were for this
cause void.
6. The work styled Condensed Reports, is not an illegal
interference with the right, whatever it may be, in Wheaton's
Reports.
Mr J. R. Ingersoll, for the defendants.
The defendants submit the following argument in answer
to the complaint exhibited by the bill and testimony of the
appellants.
They propose to show:
1. That the book styled "Wheaton's Reports," is not lawfully the subject of exclusive literary property.
2. If the book of reports of the complainants be susceptible
of exclusive ownership, such ownership can be secured only by
pursuing the provisions of certain acts of congress.
3. The provisions of the acts of congress have not been observed and complied with, by the complainants or others in
their behalf.
1. The character of the work in which the right to literary
property is asserted by the complainants, is sufficiently described in their own bill. It consists, they say, of twelve
(a) As the court gave no opinion upon this point, and, as the reporter has
been informed, did not consider it when the case was disposed of , a great portion of the arguments upon it by the counsel for the appellees, has been
omitted in this report. Should the case be brought again before the court, as
it will be in the event of the issue directed by the court being found for the
appellants, this point will be urged to a decision.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and DoL.aldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

books of reports of the decisions of the supreme court of the
United States. It was prepared in the due exercise of the appointment of Mr Wheaton as reporter, which he derived from
the court. The writings or memoranda of the decisions were
furnished by the judges to Mr Wheaton, who alone preserved
the notes and opinions thus furnished to him, together with
other materials compiled by himself; and having retained all
these materials in his possession exclusively, he finally destroyed them. The work, agreeably to the description of it
in the bill, is composed of "cases, arguments and decisions."
However rich it may be in other materials, they are not made
the subject of claim; nor is any interference with them alleged,
or made in any degree the subject of complaint. The claim
and complaint are confined to the reports properly so called. If
the profession and the country are indebted to the individual
exertions of the reporter for valuable notes, which may have
been usefully inserted to increase his emoluments, or enlarge
his literary reputation, they are not at all connected with the
work as described and exclusively claimed in the proceedings
before the court.
Reports are the means by which judicial determinations are
disseminated, or rather they constitute the very dissemination
itself. This i8 implied by their name; and it would necessarily
be their nature and essence, by whatever name they might be
called. The matter which they disseminate is, without a figure,
the law of the land. Not indeed the actual productions of the
legislature. Those are the rules which govern the action of the
citizen. But they are constantly in want of interpretation, and
that is afforded by the judge. He is the "lex loquens." Hit
explanations of what is written are often more important than
the mere naked written law itself. His expressions of the
customary law, of that which finds no place upon the statute
book, and is correctly known only through the medium of reports, arc- indispensable to the proper regulation of conduct in
many of the most important transactions of civilized life. Accordingly, in all countries that are subject to the sovereignty of
the laws, it is held that their promulgation is as essential as
their existence. Both descriptions of laws are within the principle. The source from which they spring makes no difference.
Whether legislative acts, or judicial constructions or decrees,

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

knowledge of them is essential to the safety of all. A pregnant
source of jurisdiction to the enlightened tribunal to which this
case is now submitted, is altogether foreign to the enactments
of the legislature. The extended principles of national law,
and the rules which govern the maritime intercourse of individuals, are fairly and authoritatively known only as they are promulgated from this bench. It is therefore the true policy, influenced by the essential spirit of the government, that laws of
every description should be universally diffused. To fetter or
restrain their dissemination, must be to counteract this policy.
To limit, or even to regulate it, would, in fact, produce the
same effect. Nothing can be done, consistently with our free
institutions, except to encourage and promote it. Every thing
which the legislature or the court has done upon the subject
is purely of that character and tendency.
The defendants contend, that to make "reports" the subject
of exclusive ownership, would be directly to interfere with
these fundamental principles and usages. They believe that
no man can be the exclusive proprietor of the decisions of
courts or the enactments of the legislature; and that nothing
in the light of property in either can be infringed.
The two things being analogous, let the illustration of the
one in controversy be derived from the one that is not. That
a particular act of congress, or any number of acts of congress,
could be made any man's exclusive property, has perhaps never
been supposed. Yet the same labour is devoted to the construction of them-the same degree of talents is required for
the due and proper composition of them. A particular individual receives them for publication, and the manuscripts may
be said to belong to him; for "having retained such materials
in his possession exclusively," as long as he had occasion for
them, in every case it may probably be said, "he finally destroyed the same." .This person is specially employed to
publish the acts of congress. He does so, under an appoint.
ment, which has been deemed, by some learned judges, incompatible with the tenure of an office under one of the states.
Where, then, does the parallel end? An individual may voluntarily publish an edition of the laws. But he does not by such
publication make the laws his own. It is not necessary to
determine whether he'has or has not exclusive property in the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
EWheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

peculiar combination, or in the additional matter which his
edition may contain. He certainly does not, by either combination or addition, appropriate to himself that which is neither
the one nor the other ; and his combination being untouched,
and his additions discarded, a stranger may surely use as lie
pleases, that which at first was public property, and is public
property still. Those acts themselves are no more the property of the editors, than the hall in which they were enacted
is the property of the members who passed the laws.
If either statutes or decisions could be made private property,
it would be in the power of an individual to shut out the light
by which we guide our actions. If there be any effect derived
from the assertion, that the judges furnished their decisions to
the: reporter, the gift would be both irrevocable and uncontrollable, even by the judges themselves. The desires of the court
to benefit the public, and the wishes and necessities of the public to receive the benefit, might alike be frustrated by a perverse or parsimonious spirit. A particular case, or a whole
series of -cases, might be suppressed by a repcrter endowed
with different feelings from those of the highly respectable
complainant in this cause. It might become the interest of
such a person to consign the whole edition to the flames, or to
put it at inaccessible prices, or to suffer it to go out of print
before the country or the profession is half supplied. These
are evils incident to every publication which can be secured by
copyright. Mere individual works, whether -literary or religious, the authors can undoubtedly thus control. During the
qrlimited time" for which they are constitutionally secured in
an exclusive enjoyment of them, there is no remedy. Their
right is perfect during that period. A similar right must exist,
if at all, in the publisher of reports. Can such a power be asserted, with all its consequences/over the decisions of the highest
judicial tribunal of the land?
We are not to be told, that the interest of the proprietor
would secure the country against so great an evil. The law
endeavours to prevent the occurrence of any possible wrong,
although it may not anticipate the precise mode of accomplishing it. But there are contingencies readily conceivable when
the interest of a venal reporter might be promoted'by the course
suggested. A party might feel it to his own advantage, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

therefore make it to the advantage of the reporter, to suppress a
part, or the whole of the edition of his work. The law cannot
and ought not to be made the prisoner or the slave of any individual.
It is proper here to draw a distinction between reports, the
immediate emanations from the sources of judicial authority,
and mere individual dissertations,or treatises, or even compilations. These may be of great utility, but they are not the
law. Exclude or destroy them, and the law and the knowledge
of it still exists. The same fountains from which the authors
of them drew, are accessible to others. These private works
may be regarded as so many by-paths to the temple of justice,
smoothed and straightened by individual labour, and laid out
for greater convenience over private ground. The owner may
close them at his pleasure, and no one can complain. But the
entrance to the great temple itself, and the highway that leads
to it, cannot be shut without tyranny and oppression. It is
not in-the power of any department of the government to
obstruct it.
The reports in England used to be printed with the express
permission or allowance of the twelve judges prefixed. Probably it would have been held a contempt of court to print
them without. We are told, that four reporters were.formerly
appointed by the khig "to commit to writing, and truly to deliver, as well the words spoken, as the judgments and reasons
thereupon given," in the courts of Westminster. 3 Croke's
Reports, preface. When sergeant Henden vouched for author.:
ity Dalison's printed reports, Sir Henry Hobert "demanded of
him by what warrant those reports of Dalison's came in print."
3 Croke's Reports, preface.
Sir James Burrow rebelled against the habit of receiving a
special allowance or recommendation from the judges, preparatory to publication, and actually published without any allocatur. His preface, p. 8, which explains all this, also has a reference to the property of the reporter. But that has, evidently, no
allusion to copyright property, for it refers to a proceeding
previous to the publication by the reporter: viz. a surreptitious
publication by some other person, "and. after the Isurreptitious
edition has been stopped by an injunction, the book has been

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

published, with consent of the reporter, without leave or
license, and no notice taken or complaint made of it."
Reporting, however, in England, as it respects the commort
law courts at least, is a very different thing from reporting in
this country. There the reporter has, with regard to the decisions themselves, a labour to perform which requires experience, talents, industry and learning: and he receives nothing
from the judges to aid him in his task. Here (with respect
to the opinions), he does nothing more than transcribe, if he
does so much. And having received the manuscripts from
the judges, if he should not himself publish them, they rre
Withheld from the public, to the infinite detriment of the whole
nation.
The cases that have been decided in England have, as it
should seem, turned on a question of prerogative, and not of
copyright.
Such was the point in the Company of Stationers v. Sey-.
mour, I Mod. 256. "Matters of state, and things that concern the government, were never left to any man's liberty to
print that would. And particularly, the sole printing of law
books, has been formerly granted in other reigns."
The case in I Vern. 120 (Anonymous), was a motion by the
kings patentees for an injunction to stop the sale of English
bibles, printed beyond sea. The lord keeper then referred to
the circumstance, that a patent to print law books had been
adjudged good in the house of lords.
In the case of-Company of Stationers and Parker, Skhner
233, Holt arg. : "agreed that the king had power to grant the
printing of books concerning religion or law, and admits it to
be an interest, but not a sole interest." The court inclined for
the defendant, (who had pleaded the letters patent of the king,
which granted to the University of Oxford to print omnes et
omni modo libros which are not prohibited to be printed, &c.)
and they said that "this is a prerogative of power which the
king could not grant so, but that he might resume it, but otherwise it is of a grant of an interest."
In Gurney v. Longman, 5 Ves. 506, 507, Lord Erskine declared that he granted the injunction (as to publishing the
Trial of Lord Melville) "not upon any thing like literary
property, but upon this only, that these plaintiffs are in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

same situation, as to this particular subject, as the king's
printer, exercising the right cf the crown as to the prerogative
copies."
The cases of Bell v. Walker, 1 Bro. C. C. 451, and Butterworth v. Robinson, 5 Ves. 709, are not sufficiently developed,
to show whether they turned upon copyright proprietorship, or
a proprietorship derived from a prerogative grant.
It cannot be contended, with any semblance of justice, that
the mere opinions of the judges, communicated to Mr Wheaton,
as it is alleged they were, could be the subject of literary property. A book composed in part of those opinions, and in part
of other matters, does not change the nature of the opinions
themselves. An individual who thus mingles what cannot be
exclusively enjoyed, with what can, does, upon familiar principles, rather forfeit the power over his own peculiar work, than
throw the chain around that which is of itself as free as air.
The intermixture, if it affect either description of materials,
must render the whole unsusceptible of exclusive ownership.
That which is public cannot, in its nature, be :made private,
but not e contra. The lucubrations of the reporter assume the
hue of the authoritative parts of his book, and must abide by
tne result of a connexion so framed, and a colour so worn.
Whether a stranger could extract the original parts in the face
of a copyright, and publish them alone, it is not necessary to
discuss., But upon the principles just asserted, he could give
additional dissemination to the whole, as he finds it connected
together. And he could, it is conceived, unquestionably select
what is justly public property, and leaving the merely private
work of the reporter untouched, publish the rest with entire
impunity.
2. Our second point is, that the exclusive ownership of an
author can be obtained only by pursuing the provisions of the
acts of congress.
Upon this particular point, a moment's attention will be usefully given to the celebrated case of Miller v. Taylor, 4 Burr.
2303, and its companion, Donaldson v. Beckett, 4 Burr. 2408.
Judgment of the court of king's bench having been entered
for the piaintiff, in Miller v. Taylor, a decree of the court of
chancery was founded upon it in the case of Donaldson v.
Beckett and others. This came before the house of lords on

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

ali appeal, andth,1e, decree of the court of, chancery (and, of
course, Miller v. Taylor along with it, in principle) was reversed, "the lord chancellor seconding Lord Camden's motion
to reverse." Besides the influence of the decision itself, we
have the force of these professional opinions, and that of a majority of the eleven. judges, who gave their sentiments, that
the existence of the statute deprived the author of any right of
action which he may have had at the common law.
The question of a common law right has not been decided
favourably to the author ; and if it had been, the existence of
a statute is thus recognized as superseding both the right and
the remedy which may have previously existed. The marginal note of Sir James Burrow to Miller v. Taylor, 4 Burr. 2303,
itself is, "authors have not by common law the sole and exclusive copyright in themselves or their assigns in perpetuity
after having printed and published their compositions," &c.
If in England, the source and fountain of the common law, no
such right exists, what can be alleged in favour of its existence in these United States ? We contend that there could be
no such common law right here, even if there were no statute
and that if there could be, it is incompatible with the provisions of the statute.
All the arguments contained in the powerful and splendid
opinion of Mr Justice Yates inMiller v. Taylor, 2 Burr. 2354,
are of irresistible force here.
Feudal principles apply to real estate. The notions of personal property of the common law, which is founded on natural law, depend materially on possession, and that of an adverse
character, exclusive in its nature and pretensions. Throw it
out for public use, and how can you limit or define that use ?
How can you attach possession to it at all, except of a subtle
or imaginative character!. If you may read, you may print.
The possession is not more absolute and entire in the one case
than the other. It is an artificial, and therefore arbitrary rule
which draws th6 distinction; and in order to render it available, the lesson must be read in the statute, and the means
Must be resorted to whichare there pointed out. 'Even in theface of a statute backed by the constitution itself, let an inventor lose his possession, and his privilege is gone. The
VOL. vi.ii.--4 n

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

decision of this court as to the patent for fire hose, was to this
effect. Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters 1.
If the right secured by statute does not enable the owner to
reclaim his lost possession, even when aided by the common
law, (if it be so) how can the common law, indepen~dently of
all statutes, avail?
Analogous rights, if such they may be called, are nothing
without actual possession and use. Light and air, and a part
of the great ocean, may be claimed and held, as long as necessary for the occupant; but abandon the immediate occupation,
and the exclusive power and exclusive possession are gone
together.
These and similar reasons contribute to show the source of
literary property every where. They justify the positive provisions, and manifest the wisdom of them which give existence
to it among ourselves. It is not to be found in natural law or
common law, and the deficiency is wisely and aptly supplied.
The inconveniences to the public that would be the consequence of mere common law assertion of the right would be
endless. It would lead to perpetual strife. If the mere individual stamp of authorship would afford even a foundation for
a claim, originality might be pretended to by numerous individuals, and a test of truth might not be obtained. If the real
author give his work. the official stamp of originality before it
goes forth into the world, most of the questions that would
otherwise occur are' anticipated.
The source of exclusive
ownership is therefore found in positive enactments, and not in
any unwritten law.
What is the common law of the United States? To sustain
a copyright it must be a very different thing from what the
sages of the American law have supposed. To construe existing laws ai)d contracts, to aid in giving them effect, to furnish
lucid definitions, sound principles and apt analogies, it is rich
in the most important uses. For all these and various other
purposes it is indispensable. Most of the crimes prohibited by
statute would be misunderstood without its assistance ; all of
did not shed
the civil enactments would become obscure if -it
its light in never-failing streams upon them. Yet it cannot
originate a single punishment, or create a single crime. It
does not give any jurisdiction to the judge, or increase the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

number or widen the extent of the subjects on which he has
authority to decide. When he has a duty.to perform, it gives
him wisdom and strength to perform it; but, the duty itself it
cannot create, enlarge, diminish or destroy.
This subject is well .treated of by Mr Duponceau in his Dissertation on the Nature and Extent of the Jurisdiction of. the
Courts of the United Stettes. In his preface, page xi, he says,
"the common law in the United States is no longer the source
of power or jurisdiction, but the means or instrument through
which it is exercised; therefore, whatever meaning the words
common law jurisdiction.Inay have- in England, with us they
haie none: in our legal phraseology they may be said to be
insensible." To them may be applied the language in which
the common lawyer of old spoke of a title of the civil law: "in
ceux parolx, n'y ad pas entendmeint."
Again, preface, pages-xiv, xv, "I contend that in this-country,
no jurisdiction can arise," from the common law as a source of
power-" while," as a. means for its exercise, "every lawful
jurisdiction may be exercised through its instrumentality, and
by means of its proper application."
The common law would be impracticable, in its application
to copyrights in the United States. It might vary in every
state in the union from the rest. What is the comion law
of New York or Pennsylvania? It is the common law of
England, as 'it has been adopted or modified in those rqspectivb
states. Each state then has or may have its own common law
as a system, or as it applies to a particular subject of regulation or control. But copyrights, as recognised by the United
States, must be uniform. There cannot therefore be a state
common law for copyrights for the want of necessary uniformity: and if the United States cannot derive it through the
states, they have it not at all. "Thi a power," says Chancellor
Kent,.2 Com. 299, "was very properly confided to congress, for
the states could not separately make effectual provision for the
case."
The states themselves at no time ever treated'this as a common law right. Before the adoption of the federal constitution,
aocordirigly, several of them are found to have made special
provision by statute on the subject. New. Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland and North Caro-

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg,]

lina, each passed acts of assembly to secure to authors an exclusive enjoyment for a term of years. Why should they have
secured a right already in full existence ? They might have
merely provided a penalty for an already perfect right.- The
periods for which an exclusive right is maintained are different
in these provincial enactments. In Germany this difficulty is
cured by Tendering them perpetual in each department. But
there is no common government in that country to which the
subject can be referred.
This is a Subject expressly ceded by the states to the general government. It is extinguished with regard to them in all
its parts. 'Whatever power or control the states might have
exercised is now gone, and all is vested in the United States.
No common law power, then, of any kind in relation to copyrights exists. Not in the states, for they have surrendered the
whole subject to the federal government. Not in the United
States, for they exercise only the jurisdiction which is conferred by the constitution and the laws. Nor have they declined
or omitted to fulfil the trust thus confided to them. If some
powers are left unexercised (as in the case of bankruptcy), such
omission cannot be asserted with regard to the protection of
literary property. It is amply provided for. No assistance is
needed from any other jurisdiction - no deficiency is even suggested to have been left to be supplied.
Mr Duponceau, in his treatise already cited, page 101, asserts, "that when the federal courts are sitting in -and for the
states, they can, it is true, derive no jurisdiction from the common law ; because the people of the United States, in framing
their constitution, have thought proper to restrict them within
certain limits: but that, whenever, by the constitution, or the
laws made in pursuance of it, jurisdiction is given to them
either over the person or subject matter, they are bouud to
take the. common law as their rule of decision, whenever other
laws, national or local, are not applicable."
Judge Chase, in the case.of the United States V. Worrall, 2
Dallas's Rep. 384, uses this comprehensive phrase, "in my opinion the United States-as a federal government HAVE No COMMON LAW !" "If indeed the United States can'be supposed for
a moment to have a common law, itmust, I presume, be that

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

of England; and yet it is impossible to trace when or how the
system was adopted or introduced."
It would be most strange if the double jurisdiction did exist.
The constitutioi , and, the statutes enacted in furtherance of its
provisions, instead of providing or extending rights and remedies, would have greatly limited and restrained them : instead
of doing, as they were designed to fAo, much benefit to the
author, they have done him much positive harm. He had
already, according to the theory we are opposing, rights by
the common law. These-rights, if they were pciferct in their
nature, were unlimited in their extent. The patronage of
American legislation then abridges the duration of the right, if
it does not curtail its enjoyment, by iMposing restraints and
prescribing preliminary forms. It does more, it draws a distinction between the stranger and the citizen or resident ; but
the distinction, if it mean,any thing, is in favour of the former,
and against the latter. The natural law, or common law, would
be unlimited in the duration of the privilege which it would
confer; and the labour and skill exhibited in the composition,
would secure the right. This would be an innate privilege of
tbe foreigner. The statute law afterwards comes and confines
the security to a term of years, and makes .the way to obtain
it intricate, or at least perplexed ! How does this consist with
the language or the spirit of the eighth clause of the eighth
section of the first article of the constitution ? That clause
ordains, that congress shall have power "to

PROMOTE

the pro-

gress of science and useful arts, by securing for. limited times,
to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective
writings and discoveries." It would not be to promote, but to
retard that progress, if it possessed already a more active stinulus. There would be no occasion to secure for a limited
time, if the exclusive right already existed in perpetuity.
The case of Ewer v. Coxe, 4 Washington's Circuit Court
Reports 487, is broad enough to cover all that is now con.
tended for. Judge Washington having demonstrated the necessity of the proprietor's compling with the provisions of the
act of congress, in order to obtain the benefit conferred by
that act, declares " if he has not that right, he can have no
remedy of any kind." The .ight thus referred to, was one
purely under the statute. But. it was the oily available ope

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

that could exist ; the only one that could carry with it, or be
productive of any remedy.
In order to sustain his claim at all, an author who has not
complied with the provisions of the statute, must make out
these several positions.1. That a right and a remedy existed independently of the
statute, and prior to it.
2. That the provision of redress by the statute does not take
away a previous right.
We have endeavoured to show that the first of these posi
tions is unsound, and if so, the second is altogether inapplicable.
The language of the supreme court of New York (Almy v.
Harris, 5 Johnson 175; see also Scidmore v. Smith, 13 Johnson 322 and 1 Roll. Abr. 106, pl. 16), ,pplied to a totally
different matter, may be usefully quoted here. " If Harris
had possessed a right at common law, to the exclusive enjoyment of this ferry, then, the statute giving a remedy in
the affirmative, without a negative expressed or implied for
a matter authorized by the common law, he might, notwithstanding the statute, have his remedy by action at the-common
law. I Coin. Dig., Action on Statutes, C. But Harris had no
exclusive right at the common law, nor any right but what
he derived from the statute. Consequently, he can have no
right since the statute, but those it gives; and his remedy,
therefore, must be under the statute, and the penalty only can
be recovered."
"But "whe're a statute gives a right, and furnishes the remedy, that remedy must be pursued." Gedney v. The InhabiAnd, "when a
tants of Tewksbury, 3 Mass. Rep. 309.
statute creates a new right, without prescribing a remedy, the
common law will furnish an adequate remedy to give effect
to th6 statute right. But when a statute has created a new
right, and has also prescribed a remedy for the enjoyment of
the right, he who clairns the right must pursue the statute
remedy." Smith v. Dean, 5 Mass. Rep. 515.
The same principles will make it necessary, in order to
reach the rights which the statute creates, to pursue the means
which it points out. Judge Washington, in Ewer v. Coxe, 4
Wash C. P. Rep. 491. already.:cite.d, says, "that the author

JAYTJARY TERM 1384.
(Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

must perform all that is pointed "out before he shall be entitled
to the benefit of the act. It seems to me," says he, "that the
act will admit of no other construction."
The case of Beckford v. Hood, 7 T. R. 620, has been
relied on to show that the directions of the. English statute are
not necessary preliminaries to the establishment of the right.
The judges of the king's bench were construing a very different statute from ours. The second section of the act of 8
Anne, c. 19, 12 Statutes at Large 82, recites, that " whereas
many persons may, through ignorance, offend against this
act, unless some provision' be made whereby the property in
every such book, &c. may be ascertained, &c." and then
enacts, that "nothing in this act contained shall be construed-to extend to subject any bookseller, printer, or other person whatsoever, to the forfeitures or penalties therein mentioned, for or by reason of the printing or reprinting of any
book or books without such Consent as aforesaid, unless the
title to the copy of such book or books hereafter published
shall, before such publication, be entered in the register book-of
Stationers Hall, &c.
The corresponding clause of the act of congress of April 29,
180 runs thus: "that every person, &c. before he shall be
entitled to the benefit of the act, &c. shall, in addition to the
requisites, &c." The preliminary'in the English statute is connected directly with the penalty. In ours, it is directly associated with the whole benefit of the act. The decision in Beckford v. Hood cannot affect the present case, even if it be sound.
Of the soundness of it there may be much doubt, when we
find Lord Hardwicke deciding, in Blackwell v. Harper, 2 Atk.
95, that "upon tbe act of 8 Anne, c. 19, the clause of registering with the Stationers Cbmpany is relative to the penalty,
and the property cannot vest without such entry." A farthei
view is taken by Judge Hopkinson of this decision in Beckford
v. Hood, which is respectfully submitted as a conclusive roply.
It will be found in his printed opinion. (a)
Let us look at the statutes themselves. The question here
between us seems to be whether the acts of congress merely
provide a remedy, or also constitute a right.
The act of 31st of May 1790 would have commenced with
(a) So Appendix, No. It.

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

its second section, if it had merely ihtended to suggest redress
for the infringement of an existing right. This second section, however, is only a corollary or incident to the first, which
provides, in compliance with what the constitution had authorized, secu ity to authors which they did not in any shape enjoy
before. There is nothing declaratory about it.
" From and after the passing of this act the author, &c. shall
have the sole right, &c. &c." The right is certainly prospective, and it is (we say) conditional. The right is to arise at
all events subsequently to the passage of the act, and it is to
commence "from the recording the title, &c. in the clerk's
office as is heieinafter directed."
It would seem to be quite unnecessary thus gravely to confer
in prospect a privilege already enjoyed, and to trammel it with
conditions, if it was already unconditional. This is certainly
no restraining statute.
An argument has already been used, and it will not be formally repeated, that the ostensible or professed encouragement of
learning, by securing, &c. during the times mentioned, would
be a mere delusion: for the encouragement had been more
liberal-the security not less perfect-and the right more comprehensive, because of unlimited extent, if they respectively
had any anterior existence whatever. It is no less striking,
that congress, who are supposed to be declaring the common
law, and merely providing a precise penalty for the: infraction
of a right under it, could not, by any possible exercise of their
power or authority, come up to the supposed common law
right ;" for the paramount authority of the constitution restrains
the exercise of any encouragementto a limited time.
The act proceeds to mark out the, preparatory sfep towards.
penalty or prohibition,. viz. the legal acquisition of a copyright.
(Section 1.) And how is the copyright to be legally acquired?
Why only by following the directions of the statute, i. e. depositing the title in the clerk's office, publishing the record,
and delivering a copy within six months to the secretary of
state, to be preserved in his office. (Section 3.)
Judge Washington was inclined to think that some of these
provisions were merely necessary to enable the author to sue
for the forfeitures provided by the second section.
But, that would be quite an empty satisfaction. The copies
forfeited by the invading party are to be destroyed; and the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

penalty of fifty cents for every sheet in his possession, belongs
one half tor the United States. The author is not much the
better for this provision. He might have reserved all the dam.
ages for himself, independently of the act, if the right existed
previously.
It is not necessary to rely upon the construction of this act:
alone, if there be any doubt with regard to the true interpretation of it. The supplementary act, passed April 29, 1802, is
free from all difficulty. It is on this that Judge Washington
relies.
This last act provides, section 1, that the author, "before
he shall be entitled to the benefit, &c. shall," in addition to the
requisites enjoined in the third and fourth sections of said act,
&c. "give information, by causing the copy of the record, &c.
to be inserted at full length in the title page, &c."
It thus makes those clauses which had before been of doubtful name, requisites. It requires him to perform them; not as
preliminary to forfeiture or penalty, which are only particular
provisions of parts of the act, but as preliminary to the benefit
of the act itself. He, therefore, in terms, is denied its advantages, unl(ss he perform the conditions precedent. These,
agreeably to a well known rule, are-to be construed strictly,
and the party who omits to bring himself within them can
claim no right whatever. The statute becomes a unit; all its
benefits are yielded or withheld, exactly as all its requisites
have been fulfilled or disregarded.
Requisite is aptly defined by the American lexicographer,
Noah Webster, to be "so needful that it cannot be dispensed
with; something indispensable." An author must show that
he has complied with these affirmative requisitions, or they will
not be presumed for him.
There are familiar analogies which will fully sustain this
position. Take th6 statute which regulates distresses for rerMt
Certain provisions are made which justify a landlord for acts
which would otherwise amount to a trespass. But he must
show that he has performed them strictly, or, as the law at first
stood in England, and does still in Pennsylvania, he is a trespasser ab initio; and the statute of George II. only so far alters
the rule, as to leave the party to his rer'-edy by action on the
VOL. viii.-4

E

SUPREME COURT.
tWheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

case for the recovery of the actual damages that may have been
sustained.
If notice be required by statute, as, for example, preparatory
to a suit against a magistrate for misconduct in office, not only
is it never presumed, but nothirig can supply its proof; not even
knowledge of the design to sue, which might be substantially
the same thing. In such case, knowledge is not notice.
There is nothing against our construction in the principle
which requires a strict interpretation of certain statutes. If the
act be penal, we are not endeavouring to enforce the penalty.
There is nothing penal aa to/the author claiming the copyright.
All the penalties are against other persons. It is to be construed strictly when it is to be enforced against them. He
claims the benefit of his copyright, which is a grant to be obtained only on conditions precedent and well defined. He
attempts to enforce with rigour, if not the penal forfeitures, at
least' the penal prohibitions of the law-against the defendant,
whom he alleges to be a wrong doer. Against the defendant,
thus, without (if it be without) bringing himself under the pro.
visions of the law, the alleged proprietor denounces awful consequences. The defendant asks nothing-wants nothing, but
to be let alone until it can be shown that he has violated the
rights of another.
Where is the difference between this act and the act respecting patents, as regards the right of the alleged owner . This
court has said, that if a defendant sued for the' infringement
of a patent right, "shows that the patentee has failed in any
of these prerequisites on which the authority to issue the patent
i made to depend, his defence is complete. He is entitled to
the verdict of the jury and the judgment of the court." Grant
v. Raymond, 6 Peters 220.
3. There will be little difficulty in showing that the provisions of the acts of congress have not been complied with.
The requisites are"
1st. The deposit of a printed copy of the title in the clerk's
office of the district court where the author or proprietor
resides.
2d. Within two months from the date thereof, the publishing
of a copy of the record in one or more newspapers printed in
the United States, for four weeks.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grlgg.]

3d. Within six months, the delivery, &c. to the secretary of

state of a copy to be preserved in his office.
With regard to the first volume, the bill is defective in not
stating either of the two last requisites. The complainants
are informed by .M. Carey, and believe that all things which are

requisite and necessary to be done, &c. hove been done!
An inference or conclusion even of the party, would be a
sorry substitute for the allegation and pr'oof of the facts themselves. The court must have an oppportunity to judge whether all things were done, &c. ; and that they can have only
when the things which were done are exhibited and proved.
But here isdouble distilled inference. The parties are informed
of'Matthew.Carey's conjecturej and this is presented to the
court as -a substitute for proof; while H. C. Carey proves that
Matthew Carey knew nothing about it, for all was left to him.
It is extraordinary if Mr Carey really possessed any information
on this subject, that he was not produced as a witness.
UpTrithe complainants'own allegations, their case must fail.
But the proof is scarcely less defective than the allegations of
the bill. Henry C. Carey, the clerk of his father in 1816,
states that they were in the habit of advertising, and from the
course-of business he does not doubt it was advertised, but he
has no recolletion of it. He has no recollection at all of a de-

posit of a-copy in the 'office of the secretary of state. But he
says, that, the -most probable way in which it was sent, was by
Mf Wheaton. In other words, that it was not sent by himself;
and, therefore, as to any proof from him, that it was not sent
at all.
Mr Brent states, that the eighty copies of the volume of
Wheaton's Reports, containing the decisions for February
Term 1817, were delivered to the department of state on or
4tfore the 4th day of November 1817. This refers, of course,
to the secbndvolume which contains the decisions of that
term, and not the first, which is for the previous year. Subsequent volumes had been delivered in the same manner;
all of them were received under the acts of congress, giving a
salary to the reporter. He adds, that there has always been,
according to his recollection, one or more complete sets of said
reports, from the time of their publication, in the said depart.
ment of state. But he iv unable to recollect, or state more

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

particularly when the same were first placed in said department,
or for what purpose.
Both of these particulars, it is conceived, must be made out.
The delivery must be within six months. The loose declaration that, according to his recollection, there has always been
one or more sets, &c. from the time of publication, if it could
have any force by itself, is done away by his acknowledged
inability to recollect when they were first placed there. The
object of the receipt of them too, is directly the reverse of that
prescribed by the copyright law; for, instead of being delivered
to be preserved in the office, &c., they were, if delivered at all,
merely a part of a general library, intended to be lent out and
used. If delivered to be preserved, the presumption is, that
the particular copy so left would be found. It will scarcely be
contended that the second edition of the first volume can cure
the defects of the first. It can have no copyright existence by
itself.
With regard to the subsequent volumes, the bill is scarcely
less defective. The declaration of Robert Donaldson is vague
and unsatisfactory. It could not be otherwise. He knew
nothing of the subject. The result of the inquiries at the department of state, is evasively set forth ; and were it otherwise,
he must state the fact, and not the inquiry.
The bill proceeds to insist, that the complainants would still
be entitled to the benefits of the acts of congress, although
they should be unable to prove that a copy was delivered, &c.
We say, that such proof is a necessary preliminary.
The proof, with regard to these subsequent volumes, is
equally defective. Of the second volume, there is no proof of
publication. And of none of the volumes is there either allegation or proof of deposit, agreeably to the provisions of the law.
The fourth volume wants publication. It began August
28th, and ended September 17th instead of 25th.
The seventh had but two publications in July, four in August, and one in September.
The-eighth had one publication in October, five in November,
and two in December.
Of the ninth there is no evidence of publication at all.
The tenth, eleventh and twelfth are all defective in publication.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and. Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

It is not necessary to dwell upon the facility with which
proof of delivery might have been preserved and exhibited if
it had been made. The requisites of the law must be shown.
But the certificate of Mr Van Buren, with regard to the second
edition of the first volume, is a specimen of what might have
been, and would have been produced with. regard to the whole,
if the deposit had in fact been made.
In the absence of all right on the part of the complainants,
not much difficultyis apprehended from any supposed possession
or enjoyment, by colour of privilege. Judge Washington, in
delivering his opinion in Ewer v. Coxe, disposes of this question to our hand. 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 489, "I hold it to be
beyond controversy," says he, "that if the plaintiff has rio copyright in the work of which he claims to be the owner, a court
of equity will not grant him an injunction. This was forImerly
the doctrine of the English court 6f chancery, and still is, as I
conceive, notwithstanding Lord Eldon has; in some instances,
granted an injunction and continued it to the hearing, under
circumstances which rendered the title doubtful, if the plaintiff
had possessiop under a colour of title. But surely if he has no
title at all, or such a one as would enable him to recover at
law, even that judge would, I presume, refuse. an injunction."
The authdrities cited by Judge Washington support the
principle which he maintains.
Against whom is this mere naked possession claimed ? Not
the defendant.; for during the period when it has existed he
was only one of the mass of individuals Who had not any par,ticular concern indisturbingthe complainants'colourable claims.
It is therefore against the public, who cannot thus be baffled of
their rights.
It is, however, a most extraordinary case, that would justify
a peIrpetual injunction without a trial at law. This is a proceeding which tu~rns aside from the regular and proper mode of
asc'rtaining title, and asks that the existence of it shall be
definitively rested' upon mere colourable claims. The coninplainants do not choose to bring their case to the proper test:
but assuming as conclusive, what at the utmost is only prima
facie evidence in their favour, they propose to hang up for ever,
in a. state of presumption and doubt, that which is susceptible
of a just and satisfactory settlement. All that the defendants

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

ask, in the dismission of the bill, is, that their rights may not be
prejudged.
Mr Sergeant, for the defendants.
The claim now asserted by the appellants, is-to a perpetual
right in Wheaton's Reports, in Mr Wheaton and his representatives and assigns. Such a right is necessarily exclusive.
It goes beyond the right claimed to be secured under the copyright actsel congress. Such a claim should be clearly established. It is asserted for the first time in a court of the United
States It has no precedent in the proceedings of the courts of
England; for since the decision in that country, that the
statute of Anne took away the alleged right of an author at
common law, there can be found no precedent in that country,
to suslain such a clkim.
The Condensed Reports, so far as it is now material to examine them, are-rade up of statements, which are to be found
on the records, and of the opinions of the court. Mr Wheaton's notes are not interfered with-nor are his reports of the
arguments of counsel. These, it might be admitted, are his
own; if he can have a property in any of the matters contained
in the volumes published as a public officer.
Mr Wheaton's Reports are made up as an officer of the
court. The court appointed him under the authority of a law
of the United States, and furnished him the materials for the
volumes; not for his own sake, but for the benefit and use of
the public: not for his own exclusive property, but for the free
and unrestrained use of the citizens of the United States. In
relation to the work, he was not an author, but as an officer, as
a public agent, selected, authorised and paid for making up
the court.
the reports of the decisions of
in the whole composition, under these views of the facts of
the case, not a word in the reports belongs to him.
t could
not be the intention of the court to give him a perpetual
right to the opinions delivered by them. No such purpose
could have been entertained by congress, when the appointment of a reporter was directed. The objects of the law, and
of the court, were to authorise, enforce and secure the publication of the proceedings and decisions of the court, for public
information. Any argumont, or course of argument tending to

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

a different conclusion, must be wrong; because contrary to the
design of his appointment. It is in derogation of common
right.
Let us see how the claim of the complainants is made out.
1. The question whether the power to regulate- copyrights
under the constitution is exclusive, can never arise, until some
state shall pass a law interfering with its exercise by congress,
3 Story's Com. 50. Until then, it must be a theoretical question. The law of. New York, which was intended to secure
exclusive rights in the navigation of the waters of that state
by steam, was by this sourt decided to be unconstitutional.
The court decided the case on other grounds, it is trte, but
still so decided.
Up to the present moment, no state has asserted a right to
interfere with the power of congress, under the constitution, to
There is no judicial decision which
regulate copyright.
asserts or supposes any such right. There is -not a trace, sign
or symptom of any such right existing in the legislation, or
judicial proceedings of any state. There is, therefore, no collision ; no case for judgment. But: the contrary is evident.
It is not necessary to inquire whether states have the power,
if they have not chosen to exercise or claim it. It is clear that
there was no such thing in any of the states prior to the constitution, but by the invitation of congress, under the confederation. Fed. No. 43; 3 Story's Corn. 49. Congress found the
whole case unprovided for; and the laws made by some of the
states, at their instance, and which have been referred to by the
counsel for.the appellants, ceased when the constitution Was
adopted.
But supposing that a concurrent power to regulate and
secure copyright existed, in the states and the United States; a
supposition of exceeding difficulty and doubt; and that the
states may act notwithstanding the exercise of the power by
congress; it is for the states to choose whether they will do so
or not. They have not so chosen, they leave it to congress.
But there are many reasons for considering this power exclusive, as well as reasons which clearly show it ought to be exclusive.
1. It was originally taken up by congress as matter properly
belonging to their cognizance. Early in the progress of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

government the first law was passed; which was followed by
other legislation, thus establishing the present regulations.
This power did not exist in congress under the confederation.
None of the provisions in that compact applied to it; and it
now rests upon the article in the constitution which gives congress the power to "promote the progress of science and the
useful arts." The whole ground is admitted to have been
vacant, on the establishment of the present government. It
was a new power. Fed. No. 43; 3 Story's Com. 48; Rawle
on the Const. ch. 9, p. 105, 106; 2 Kent's Com. 306, &c.

2. The power could only be properly, beneficially and effectually exercised by congress. By vesting the power in the
national legislature, the system became uniform and certain.
Authors, but for this, would have been subjected to different provisions and conditions in every state; thus materially affecting
the value of all their rights. And the-community throughout
the whole nation were thus, after a certain interval, entitled to
the benefits of the writings or compositions of those who availed
themselves of the laws, passed under the constitutional provivisions. 3 Story's Com. 48, 49.
3. There is an absolute incompatibility between the existence of the power in the United States, and in the states.
It has been repeatedly said that the constitution has not
occupied the whole ground. That it has provided for the
author, and not for the public. But the true state of the case
is directly the reverse of this. It has provided for the case of
the authot', only as instrumental to the. provision for the public.
The clause in the constitution gives congress the power, not to
secure a copyright to the author; but to "protect the-progress of
science and the useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors,
It is
&c. the exclusive right to their respective writings, &c."
to be for a linited time, no longer. 3 Story's Com. 49.
4. The state of the law in England was known here by the
adjudications in the courts of that country. These adjudica-.
tions stood in this way. 1. That there was a common law
right before the statute of Anne. 2. That there was no common law right after that statute. According to those decisions,
the effect of legislation was to take away the common law
right, Where the power of legislation over the subject was
placed there was the power over the whole matter.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

5. The same word "secure" is applied in the article in the
constitution to inventions, as well as to the works of authors.
In fnventions, it is admitted, there was no common law
property. The use of the word "secure" cannot, therefore,
presuppose an existing right. It would have the same effect,
and be equally applicable to both. No benefit can, therefore,
be derived from the use of the term; however ingenious the
argument which invokes it in aid of the pretensions of the
complainants. Cited, Act of 41 Geo. III. ; Maugham 36, 37.
6. The uniform construction, and the practice under it, have
been such as is contended for by the defendants.
It is true, there was an omission in the laws to give full
power to the courts of the United States, in cases of copyrights.
But the omission was to no great extent. There was no provision for jurisdiction, when the parties to a suit of which copyright was the subject, were citizens of the same state. Binns
v. Woodruff, 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 48. But that omission was
supplied by the act of 1819. 3 Story's U. S. Laws 1719.
7. In what state, supposing an author to have a right at
common law, is the right to exist, and be protected. If there
is a right of property, it must be governed by, and have the
benefit of all the rules which affect such property. It accompanies the owner every where. It is not his because he is a
citizen of the United States. It derives no additional security
from such citizenship. A stranger, who is an author-a fo.
reigner has the same common law right of property; and no
foreign book can be printed here. Such has not been the
understanding in England, from which the principles to sustain the right are derived. No common law ri ght extended to
Ireland before the union. There, at all times, before the union,
the works of authors, however secured under the statute of
Anne, in England, were printed and published. If a common
law right existed, or was supposed to exist, we should have
found, in the proceedings of the Irish courts, its establishment
by judicial decisions.
But supposing it-were otherwise, and that a right at common law does exist; upon the laws of what state de the coinplainants rely? Upon the law of Pennsylvania? In the
circuit court, the right was claimed on the common law of the
nation. In this court, it is. asserted to rest upon the common
VOL. vxii.-4 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

law of a state. Below, no intimation of such a thing was
given. If any such right, 'under the common law of Pennsylvania, exists, we of Pennsylvania do not know it. Strangers have discovered: it, and claim the benefit of it, for the first
time. Not a trace of its existence can be found in the whole
history of that state. - No authority from any of the laws, or the
decisions of the courts, has beeh vouched. It is denied that it
exists.
It is, "then, assumed, without hesitation, that the right of
action, whatever it is, which an author has for an infringement of his copyright, arises from the constitution and laws of
the United State s. The constitution gives congress the power
"to promote the progress of science and the useful arts, by
securing, for limited times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries."
Art. 1, sect. 8, ch. 8. Until secured by congress, he could have
no right under the constitution. When secured, it must be to
such extent, and upon such terms as congress may enact.
Some argument has been presented upon the word "securing," as admitting a pre-existing right. But there is no force
in the suggestion. There must be a pre-existing state of things,
uut of which a right to apply to be secured arises. That right
is brought into existence by the constitutional provision. It
had no existence as a right incident to the fact of the author
being a member of the community of the nation, until the
constitutional provision. By the agreement of those who made
the constitution, the right was brought into existence ; and it
was to be secured. The language, therefore, is accurate. It
has already been observed, that the term "securing" is applied
equally to inventions; yet no common law right to inventions has
been asserted.
The federal judiciary, at all events, can have no cognimnce
of claims, to copyright, but under the laws of the United States,
made in pursuance of the constitution; and to the extent such
laws may authorize them to go.
Thus understood, what is the right of an author? There is
a difference between a patent and a copyright, A patent, in
due form, is prima facie evidence of the right of the inventor.
It: is, itself, prima facie proof of all the prior acts required by
the laws. It rests for its support .upon the invention. But

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

invention, without a patent, is nothing. A -man, without a
patent, could not ask the aid of the court to protect his claims.
The patent is, therefore, evidence, prima facie, of right.
A copyright is quite a different thing. Its existence, as a
right, depends upon doing certain acts. The doing of these
is the foundation of the right. Their being done, is the only
evidence of the right. If they are not done, no right, or even
claim exists. These acts, therefore, as to copyright, are as a
patent in the case of an invention. There is nothing that
performs the office of a patent. The whole acts together establish the right.
In the case of an invention, the patent being a prima facie
case of right, in the first instance, where -the right of the inventor is disputed, it is sufficient 'to rove the patent, at law or
in equity.
In the case of a copyright, the title is made out prima facie,
at law and in equity; by stating and proving the acts which,
by the provisions of the law, constitute the copyright.
This distinction is a most material one, and to be always
kept in mind. It goes to the root of the whole case. If any
thing has been omitted or neglected; if any of the requirements of the law, the performance of which are conditions
upon which the right rests, and by which the right would be
protected by the law, have been neglected; there is no title at
all; no title in existence. Such a case is the same with that
of an inventor coming into court without a patent.
The court will not grant him an injunction. Ewer v. Coxe,
4 Wash. C. C. R. 487. There is nothing in such a case on
which to engraft the doctrine of possession. It is only when
a prima facie title exists, one made out by showing a compli.
ance with the law, that the doctrine of possession can be applied.- Ewer v. Coxe, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 488.
This brings us to the first head of inquiry, which separates
itself into two branches.
1. What are the requisites to a copyright under the laws of
congress ?
2. Have these requisites been complied with .
1. Upon the first question we have the light of a judicial
decision, and there is no decision to the contrary. It is that of
a judge of the highest and the most regarded judicial talents;

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton anid Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

one whose opinions have always received the utmost respect.
In Ewer v. Coxe, 4 Wash. C. C. R. .487, Judge Washington
held, that to entitle the authbr of a book to a copyright, he
must deposit a printed copy of the title of such book in the
clerk's.office ; publish a copy of the record of his title within
the period, and for the length of time prescribed by the third
section of the act of congress of 31st of May 1790 ; and deposit
a copy of the'book in the secretary of state's office, within six
months after its publication. The requisites of the third and
fourth sections of the act of congress of 1790, relative to copyrights, are not merely directory; but their performance is essential to vesting a title to the copyright secured by law. The
act of congress of 29 April 1802, declares, that, in addition to
the requisites enjoined in the third and fourth sections of the
act of 1790, and before the person claiming a copyright shall
be entitled to the benefits of the same act, he shall perform all
the new requisites; and that he must perform the whole before
he shall be entitled to the benefits of- the act. "It seems to
me," says the judge, "that the act will admit of no other
construction."
The argument upon the two acts taken together is plain and
convincing. Act of 1790, 1 Story's Laws of United States 94;
Alt of 1802, 2 Story's Laws of United States 866. The question, be it remembered, is, what are the requisites under the act
of 1802.
1. When these acts were passed, the whole subject of copyrights was open for legislation. The object of congress was
to carry into effect the provisions of the constitution, by estab-'
lishing a mode of obtaining a copyright. The provisions of the
laws have no other view.
It is material and reasonable, then, to suppose, that whatever
was directed to be done was a requirement. The acts to be
performed, were to secure for a limited time to an authore the
benefit of his writings ; and these acts were directed for that
purpose. It is impossible to distinguish, so that one of the acts
shall be decreed material, and another not so. The whole,
and each of the acts are pointed out in the law, and 'the most
natural course is to deem them all material. They do all, in
effect, constitute the conditions of the title ; they constitute the.
title itself.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

2. Upon the words of the act it seems impossible to raise a
doubt. They are plain, clear, and require no explanation.
The acts they require, are of easy performance ; the evidence
that.they have been performed, can always be obtained and
preserved. The reason of requiring these acts is not here in
question.
It is probably true, that when the act of 1790 was passed,
congress had before them the statute of Anne, and the decisionsof the English courts upon that statute, and on all the litigated
questions of literary property, and of copyright. This is equally
true of the act of 1802 ; and this must be considered in reading
that act.
But the reason of the requirement of the.law is obvious. The
author " shall deliver a copy to the secretary of state, to be
preserved in his office."
The copy to be delivered is not to constitute a part of the
library of the secretary of state. The books deposited for copyright, never do form a part of the library of the department of
state. They are, it'is understood, always marked, "deposited
for copyright," with the date of the deposit. The books So
deposited are not lent out, or ought not to be. They are " to be
preserved in the office" of the secretary of state. They are not
delivered for the sake of the officer, nor are they like the copies
delivored to the stationers' company, under the act of Anne.
Why does the law require a copy to be deposited in the office
of the secretary of state? Itis a material requirement. Why,
it is asked, were models and drawings to be deposited in the
patent office, a part of the department of state ? That is a.
kindred subject, and the reason is the same in one case as in
the other.
If a model, or a drawing of a machine or invention" is
required to be deposited in the patent office, the reasons and
the objects of the requirement are, that the public may know
what the invention is; and that, after the limited period shall
have expired, they may have the use of it, according to the
purpose of the provision in the constitution. A book or writing
is required to be deposited for the same reason. The matter
claimed as original is there to be preserved, in order that the
extent and nature of the claim for the limited period may be
known. The deposit of the title in the clerk's office, the pub-

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

lication of the record in the newspapers, give no information of
the contents of the work ; but the leposit of it in the secretary's
office does this: and as it is "to be preserved" there at all times,
there the extent of the author's claims can be always known.
The law enjoins on the secretary of state obligations which
are consistent with those views of its purposes. It is made his
duty to preserve the books deposited in his office. He is thus
the'trustee of the authoi and of the public. The court will
not suppose this duty is ever neglected. It will always presume the injunctions of the law are complied with.
-As 'to the authdr, he has an easy mode of securing the
evidence of his compliance with the law. To his rights, the
preservation of the book deposited, is not issential. He has
done all that is required of him, by depositing the copy of his
work : and the certificate of the secretary of state, which the
secretary has power to give, will be eviden, e of the deposite.
An examination of the provisions of the act of 1802, must
result in the conviction that the construction contended for by
the defendants is the true one. The act must be interpreted,
not tiltered. It must be read in its own words, and according
to the common meaning and use of the terms in which it is
expressed. The first-and second section of the act are those
upon which the construction is to be given; and no better language for the cl3ar interpretation of them can be used than
those used by Judge Washington, in Ewer v. Coxe.
It is of no importance to the case, whether, by thelaw of 1790,
the acts to be done by an author were conditional or directory.
They were enjoined-they were "requisites."
The act of
1802 has so declared them, and without this they were clearly
so. This cannot be reasonably denied.
The construction conceded by Judge Washington, in Ewer
v. Coxe, of the provisions of the act of 1790, is not satisfactory. Having ascertained to his complete satisfaction that the
act of 1802 left no room to doubt that the acts imposed on an
author, were conditions essential to his copyright; that venerable and learned judge did not consider it necessary to examine
the provisions of the law of 1790, with the care and scrutiny
he would have dofie, had the case rested on that law only.
The requirements of the law of 1790 are made of the party
himself. It is in his power to perform them all. They are

JAN JARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

all, and each of them, parts of a system having refereiice to the
author and publisher. The act of depositing a copy in the
office of the secretary of state, is one of the number of acts by
which he evinces his intention to secure a copyright, and by
which he executes his intention. Less than the whole does
not suffice to prove the intention. Less than the whole is not
a copyright.
The publication in the newspapers is on the same footing.
It will surely be admitted that was material. Yet they are
both of the same character. There was no necessity for
either, if not for both. Unless both were to be performed, both
were nugatory; and the whole provisions of the law might
have been a dead letter.
The law of 1802 places the question of construction of th6
act of 1790 out of doubt or controversy. It declares the acts
stated in the law of 1790 to be requirements. He shall, in addition to the "requisites" "enjoined" in the third and fourth
sections of the act of 1790, do certain things. E'-ery word of
the law must have effect. Each section contains one requisite, and no more ; neither, therefore, can be rejected. All
must have their full force.
The second section is equally clear. It helps to construe
the other.
These, it will be seen are words of enactment, not of recital.
They make the law; they do not declare or expound it.
Whatever the law may have been before 1802, it is now established. The decision in Ewer v. Coxe, in establishing the
construction of the act of 1802, establishes that of both
statutes.
Under these views of the law, founded on the fair and sound
construction of their provisions, and supported by the decision
in Ewer v. Coxe ; copyright is the union of these acts, the
"requirements" of the laws by an author. It is nomen collectivum, signifying all that confers and constitutes the right.
2. Such being the law, how stand the facts of the case?
And now it must be conceded that the proof of title, and compliance with the law, lies upon the complainant. He must
state tme facts distinctly in the bill, and he must prove them as
stated. Most clearly this is his duty, when be asks the extraordinary aid of a court of equity.

SUPREME COURT
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

Nor can it be deemed unreasonable to require thi . The
proof of his title to copyright is. of such a nature that it may
easily be preserved. It may consist of an official certificate of
the deposite of a copy of the work-of newspapers to prove the
required publication:
There is a want of such allegations in the bill, as well as of
such proof.
Mr Sergeant declined going into an examination of the bill
and evidence in support of the positions he assumed; considering that they had been fully sustained by the argument of Mr
Ingersoll. He also referred, in support of . these positions, to
the opinion of the learned judge in the circuit court, by whom
the case was decided.(a)
Upon the point made by the counsel for the appellants, that
the delivery of the eighty copies of the reports under the reporter's act, was a compliance with the requisite of copyright
acts, of the deposite of a copy in the secretary of state's office;
he also referred to the decision of Judge Hopkinson.
The case, as exhibited on the record, and by the examination of it which has been submitted to the court, is one which
has no claim to the relief sought by the complainants. Its
principal features are repeated, .to connect with them other
matters deserving the consideration of the court.
Mr Wheaton undertook the preparation and publication of
the reports of the decisions of the court, under the appointment
of the court. He furnished -nothing original from his own
mind. All the contents of the reports were the 'fruits of the
minds of others; supplied for the public use; at the public expense ; or at the expense of others. There is not a thought of
Mr Wheaton's from the beginning to the end of the work.
It was intended for the public, for their use and benefit; and
should therefore be made as public as possible.
In process of time, after the publication of the first volume
of his reports, Mr Wheaton became a publio officer; witli a
salary for his labour as reporter, and obliged to perform the
duties of the office. This provision for the reports, it has been
said, in the course of the argument for the complainants, Was
obtained at the earnest solicitation of Mr Wheaton. It there(a) Appendix, No. 11.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

fore became a contract on his part, for the sum allowed by the
law,, to prepare and publish the reports. See act of 1823.
He became, like the clerk of the house of representatives, keeping the journals.
The object of his appointment, the -plain purpose of the law,
was to preserve a record- of the proceedings and decisions of
the court; the highest tribunal in the nation; and to give them
circulation. If Mr Wheaton could have a copyright, this object might be entirely defeated-his book might be a sealed
book.
Out of this public work it becomes necessary to compile
something less bulky and expensive. The usefulness of such
a publication is admitted by all but those interested to deny it.
Mr Peters undertakes to prepare it, and he has completed the
work. He announced.his intention, to do this publicly; and
fully explained his plan. No efforts were made to stay this
proceeding until invited by him; and after he had completed
the third volume of his work. If the further circulation of his
book is stopped, it will be a public injury. Such a result will
limit the knowledge of the law of the land, as determined and
established by, this court, to but a small portion of the community; while all are interested in knowing it.
But here a question arises, whether books of reports can be
copyrighted in England or in the United States.
There are no cases decided in which the principle is established, that reports of the decisions of courts of law are the
subjects of copyright. The case of Streater v. Roper, 4 Bac.
Abr. Prerogative; Maugham 101, note; was reversed in parliament. By that decision the prerogative right, the right of
the patentee, was established. No right, as author, was sustained by this case; but the 6onirary. It is true, that Maugham says the prerogative claim is ridiculous ; but it rests on a
decision that it is the ancient law. In the case of Butterworth
v. Robinson, 5 Ves. 509, it does not appear how the right was
derived.
By the decisions of the house of lords, no such right is maintained. No copyright, in any one author, is supported by those
decisions. No one could report but by the authority of the
chancellor; and this authority was exclusive; it prohibited all
others from interfering. Gurney v. Longimian, 13 Ves. 193.
VOL. viii.-4 c

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

The whole of this subject will be "ound to be examined in the
compilations of Jeremy, Maugham and Godson. The law is
not established, at least it has not been so declared, that reports
can be private property. Essentially, their contents are public
property. The knowledge of the decisions of courts should
not be confined. It is consistent with the views of this court,
that copies of their opinions should be multiplied to any extent,
and in any form required. Publicity is the very thing required.
4. The reporter is a public officer, and his duty, by law, is,
to publish. He has no liberty to keep back the matter which
he collects and prepares, in the performance of his official
duties. The act of 1817, 3 Story's Laws 1639, regards him as
a public officer. So by the subsequent acts, which will be
found in Story's Laws 1803, 1913, 2046. The court, in
3 Peters 397, at January term 1830, decided that the reporter
was the proper officer to give copies of the opinions of the court,
when required. Could he refuse such copies ? Could he refuse to give a copy of a report of a case, when asked for it; on
the ground that it was his property, and only to be used by his
consent, and for his benefit. The whole purpose of the reporter's act would be defeated, could this be done. That act
makes him the officer to give publicity to the proceedings of
the court; but, upon this view of the matter, it has placed him
in a situation to get possession of the official actions of the
court ; it has given access to the records of the court, and has
placed him in a situation by which he has obtained all the
materials to accomplish the plain and obvious intention of the
law, for his private advantage, and that he may defeat and set
at naught that intention. Such cannot be the law. This
court will never sanction such pretensions.
The purpose of the appellants is to subject the defendants to
all the evils of a violation of the copyright acts, by a proceeding which deprives them of the benefits of a trial by jury.
Such a course will not receive the favour of this court.' The
facts upon which the rights of the complainants must rest,
whatever may be the construction of the acts of congress, are
not made out. All the essential facts to sustain. their claims
are denied; and certainly, it will be admitted, the proof offered
to sustain them by the complainants, is imperfect. Will the
court, then, give its aid in such a case ? Will they reverse the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
(Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

decision of the circuit court, and order a perpetual injunction.
Will they not say to the complainants, If you have rights, go
into a court of law and establish them ?
Mr Webster, in reply.
There was at one period no regular series of reports of the decisions of this court. Mr Cranch's reports had been published as
far as the sixth volume; the rest of the matter, which afterwards
formed the remaining volumes, was in manuscript. In this
state of things, Mr Wheaton proposed a regular annual publication of the deeisions, with good type, and to be neatly printed.
It was found necessary that there should be some patronage
from the legislature, there being so few persons who would
purchase the reports. Mr Wheaton applied to congress, personally solicited its aid, and made a case which prevailed.
Congress passed a temporary law, which was renewed again
and again. The successor of Mr Wheaton has had the full
benefit of the grant obtained by the personal.exertions of Mr
Wheaton.
If the work of the appellee be an interference with the rights
of the appellants, it is not a heedless one ; it may not be an
intentional interference, but the acts which constitute it are
intentional. "The defendant was well advised of the injury
which the appellants foresaw. This is fully proved by the
evidence. The publication, of the defendant has materially
injured the appellants. Many volumes of Wheaton's Reports
were on hand, unsold, at the time of the publication of the
third volume-of Condensed Reports.
The intention of the defendant was not to make an abridgement, but to make a substitute for the whole of the appellant's
work. The reports of the appellant were the result of the joint
action of congress and the reporter ; they set the price. If congress had thought that the people should have them cheaper,
they would have lowered the price. The defendant should
not have run a risk in accommodating the public; they could
judge for themselves.
The question before the court is one for the most enlarged
and liberal consideration. Cases which are not in form, but
are in substance an infringement of the author's rights, are to

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

be viewed, as respects .the author, liberally. This spirit pervades all the adjudged cases.
Has there been an indefensible use of the appellant's labours?
In the Condensed Reports there is the same matter as in the
reports of tho appellant, under the same names. Is this-an
abridgement ? An abridgement fairly done, is itself authorship, requires mind ; and is not an infringement, no more than
another work on the same subject. In the Engliah uourts
there are frequently more reports than one of the same cases.
These reports are distinct works. Abridgements are the efforts
of different minds. The Condensed Reports hav(. none of the
features of an abridgement, and the work is made up of the
same cases, and no more than is contained in Wheaton's Reports..
The attention of the court is called to certain facts. Tile
laws of congress relating to the reporter's office do not bear on
the question of copyright. There is no intimation in the statute of such an interference, or that the sum allowed the reporter is in lieu of copyright. The right in the reporter to fix
the price of the volumes, recognizes a right tQ exclude others
from publishing. He receives one thousand dollars, and gives
eighty copies to the United States, of the value of four hundred
dollars. Would he give up the copyright for this sum ; this
modicum ? The law was intended to secure to him the rights
he possessed, and to add to them also.
Before the statute of Anne, the copyright of authors was
acknowledged. In 1769, it underwent investigation in the
courts. The statute of Anne was passed 1711. Pennsylvania
was sattled in 1682. The common law was carried to Pennsylvania on its settlement; and the statute of Anne did not
change or affect it. The copyright of an author existed in the
colonies, and exists in the United States ; and particularly in
Pennsylvania.
It has been said by the counsel for the defendants, that there
is no legislation in the state of Pennsylvania, or judgment of,
her courts recognizing the, common la-wright. Before the revolution there were few books made; and there are no reports of
the decisions of the courts anterior to that event. The common law is 4 fountain of remedy, perennial and perpetual. By

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

its principles protecting rights when they are infringed, and its
principles existing, although not called into action.
The import of the act of cngress of 1790 is, that before its
enactment, there were legal rights of authorship existing; it
provides for existing property, not for property created by the
statute. There is nothing for its provisions to stand upon, but
the common law. That law is not one of grant or bounty; it
recognizes existing rights, which it secures. The aim of the
statute was to benefit authors, and thereby the public.
The right of an author to the production of his mind is
acknowledged every where. It is a prevailing feeling, and
none can doubt that a man's book is hig book-is his property.
It may be true that it is property which requires extraordinary
legislative protection, and also limitation. Be it so.
-But the appellants are entitled to protection under the
statute. It is a clear case. All the statutes should be taken
together. The decision of Judge Washington in Ewer v.
Coxe, was not appealed from; and the question is for the first
time before this court.
Is the deposite of the copy in the office of the secretary of
state a condition precedent or subsequent ? There is no question but that it is the latter. There is no need of the deposite
being made until six months after publication. From arid
after the recording of the title, the right is secured, and the
author may immediately bring his action for an infringement.
Does: this case stand differently from what it -would if the
action had been brought within six months after recording the
title page ? Ewer v. Coxe, says the book must be deposited,
before the right arises ; the statute says differently.
By the act of 1790 there were certain requisites, not prerequisites, enjoined on an author. Does the law of 1802 make
the requisites of the act of 1790 pre-requisites? There -are
conclusive reasons against this. It was the intention of the
law to add to, but not to change the character of the law of
1790. If this was otherwise, there was a direct repeal of the
second section of that law, by which an action is given upon
filing, the title page in the clerk's office.
The act of 1802 is in addition to -the first act, but not a repeal of it. This is the hinge of this case. The construction

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grig.)

contended for will repeal the second section of the act of 1790,
and will create a forfeiture.
What reason is there to doubt that the copies were deposited
as required by the law ? It is the ordinary course of trade to
deliver them. Is it an unfair construction to suppose that the
one copy required by the laws to be delivered, is included"in
the eighty copies delivered as reporter ? Is there not a special
provision in the case of the reporter, that he shall deliver
eighty copies, while others deliver one copy. The same term
of six months is required for the delivery in both.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court,
After stating the case, he proceeded :

Some of the questions which arise in this case are Qs novel,
in this country, as they are interesting. But one case invol.ving similar principles, except a decision by a state court,
has occurred ; and that was decided by the circuit court-of the
United States for the district of Pennsylvania, from whose decree no appeal was taken.
'The right of the complainants must be first examined. If
this right shall be sustained as set forth in the bill, and the
defendants shall be proved to-have violated it, the court will be
bound to give the appropriate redress.
The complainants assert their right on two grounds.
First, under the common law.
Secondly, under the acts of congress.
And they insist, in the first place, that an author was entitled, at common law, to a perpetual property in the copy of his
works, and in the profits of their publication ; and to recover
damages for its injury, by an action on the case, and to the
protection of a court of equity.
In support of this proposition, the counsel for the complainants have indulged in a wide range of argument, and have
shown great industry and ability. The limited time allowed
for the preparation of this opinion, will not admit of an equally
extended consideration of the subject by the court.
Perhaps 'no topic in England has excited more discussion,
among literary and talented men, than that of the literary property of authors. So engrossing was the subject, fora long
time, as to leave few neutrals, among those who were distin-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Poters and Grigg.]

guished for their learning and ability. At length the question,
whether the copy of a book or literary composition belongs to
the author at common law, was -brought before the court of
king's bench, in the great case of Miller v. Taylor, reported in
4 Burr. 2303. This was a case of great expectation; and the
four judges, in giving their opinions, seriatim, exhausted the
argument on both sides. Two of the judges, and Lord Mansfield held, that, by the common law, an author had a literary
property in his works ; and they sustained their opinion with
very great ability. Mr Justice Yeates, in an opinion of great
length, and With an ability, if equalled, certainly not surpassed,
maintained the opposite ground.
Previous to this case, injunctions had issued out of chancery
to prevent the publication of certain works, at the instance of
those who claimed a property in twe copyright, but no decision
had been given. And a case had been commenced, at law,,
between Tonson and Collins, on the same ground, and was
argued with great ability, more than once, and the court of
king's bench were about to take the opinion of all the judges,
when they discovered that the suit had been brought by collusion, to try the question, and it was dismissed.
This question was brought before the house of lords, in the
case of Donaldson v. Bcckett and others, reported in 4 Burr. 2408.
Lord Mansfield, being a peer, through feelings of delicacy,
declined giving any opinion. The eleven judges gave their
opinions on the following points. 1st. Whether at common law
an author of any bobk or literary composition, had the sole
right of first printing, and publishing the same for sale ; and
might bring an action against any person who printed, published and sold the same, without his consent. On this question there were eight judges in the affirmative, and three in
the negative.
2d. If the author had such right originally, did the law take
it away, upon his printing and publishing such book or literary
composition; and might any person, afterward, reprint and
sell, for his own benefit, such book or literary composition,
against the will df the author. This question was answered
in the affirmative, by four judges, and in'the negative by seven.
3d. If such action would have lain, at common law, is it
taken away by the statute of 8 Anne; and is an author, by

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

the said statute, precluded from every remedy, except on the
foundation of the said statute, and on the terms of the conditions prescribed thereby. Six of the judges, to five, decided
that the remedy must be under the statute.
4th. Whether the author of any literary composition, and
his assigns, had the sole right of printing and publishingthe
same in perpetuity, by the common law. Which question
was decided in favour of the author, by seven judges to four.
5th. Whether this right is any way impeached, restrained or
taken away, by the statute 8 Anne ? Six, to five judges, decided that the right is taken away by the statute. And the
lord chancellor, seconding Lord Camden's motion to reverse,
the decree was reversed.
It would appear from the points decided, that a majority of
the judges were in favour of the common law right of authors,
but that the same had been taken away by the statute.
The title and preamble of the statute, 8 Anne, ch. 19, is as
follows: "An act for the encouragement of learning by vesting the copies of printed books in the authors or purchasers of
such copies, during the times therein mentioned.
"Whereas printers, booksellers and other persons, have of
late frequently taken the liberty of printing, reprinting, and
publishing, or causing to be printed, reprinted and published,
books and other writings without the consent of the authors or
proprietors of such books and writings, to their very great
detriment, aud too often to the ruin of them and their families," &c.
In 7 Term Rep. 627, Lord Kenyon says, "all arguments
in the support of the rights of learned men in their works,
must ever be heard with great favour by men of liberal minds
to whom they are addressed. It was probably on that account
that when the great question of literary property was discussed,
some judges of enlightened understanding went the length of
maintaining, that the right of publication rested exclusively
in the authors and those who claimed under them for all time;
but the other opinion finally prevailed, which established that
the fight was confined to the times limited by the act of parliament. And, that, I have no doubt, was the right decision."
'And in the case of the University of Cambridge v. Pryer, 16
East 319, Lord Ellenborough remarked, "it has been said that

JANUARY TERM 1834.

057

[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

the statute of 8 Anne has three objects : but I cannot subdivide the two first; I think it has only two. The counsel for
the plaintiffs contended that there was no right at common
law; and perhaps there might not be; but of that we have
not pa'ticularly any thing to do."
From the above authorities, and others which might be
referred to if time permitted, the law appears to be well settled
in England, that, since the statute of 8 Anne, the literary property of an author in his works can only be asserted under the
statute. And that, notwithstanding the opinion of a majority
of the judges in the great case of Miller v. Taylor was in
favour of the common law right before the statute, it is still
considered., in England, as a question by no means free from
doubt.
That an author, at common law, has a property in his manuscript, and may obtain redress against any one who deprives
him of it, or by improperly obtaining a copy endeavours to realise a profit by its publication, cannot be doubted ; but this is a
very different right from that which asserts a perpetual and
exclusive property in the future publication of the work, after
the author shall have published it to the world.
The argument that a literary man is as much entitled to the
product of his labour as any other member of society, cannot
be controverted. And the answer is, that he realises this product by the transfer of his manuscripts, or in the sale of his
works, when first published.
A book is valuable on account of the matter it contains, the
ideas it communicates, the instruction or entertainment it
affords, Does the author hold a perpetual property in these?
Is there an implied contract by every purchaser of his book,
that he may realise whatever instruction or entertainment
which the reading of it shall give, but shall not write out or
print its contents.
In what respect does the right of an author differ from that
of an individual ,who has invented a most useful and valuable
machine ? In the production of this, his mind has been as
intensely engaged, as longi and, perhaps, as usefully to the
public, as any distinguished author in the. composition of his
book.
The result of their labours may be equally beneficial to
VOL. vii.-4 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

society, and in their respective spheres they may be alike
distinguished for mental vigour. Does the common law give
a perpetual right to the author, and withhold it from the inventor? And yet it has never been pretended that the latter
could hold, by the common law, any property in his invention, after he shall have sold it publicly.
It would seem, therefore, that the existence of a principle
may well be doubted, which operates so unequally. This is
not a characteristic of the common law. It is said to be
founded on principles of justice, and that all its rules must conform to sound reason.
Does not the man who imitates the machine profit as much
by the labour of another, as he who imitates or republishes a
book? Can there be a difference between the types. and press
with which one is formed; and the instruments used in the construction of the others I
That every man is entitled to the fruits of his own labour
must be admitted; but he can enjoy them only, except by
statutory provision, under the rules of property, which regulate
society, and which define the rights of things in general.
But, if the common law right of authors were shown to exist
in England, does the same right exist, and to the same extent,
in this country.
It is clear, there can be no common law of the United States.
The federal government is composed of twenty-four sovereign
and independent states; each of which iay have its local
usages, customs and commonlaw. There is no principle which
pervades the union and has the authority of law,. that is not
embodied in the constitution or laws of the union. The common law could be made a part of our federal system, only by
legislative adoption.
When, therefore, a common law right is asserted, we must
look to the state in which the controversy originated. And in
the case under consideration, as the copyright was entered in
the clerk's office.of the district court of Pennsylvania, for the
first volume of the book in controversy, and it was'published in
that state; we may inquire, whether the common law, as to
copyrights, if any existed. was adopted in Pennsylvania.
It is insisted, that our ancestors, when they migrated to this

JANUARY TERM 1834.
tWheaton and Donaldson-v. Peters and Grigg.]

country, brought with them the English common law, as a
part
of their heritage.
That
this was the case, to a limited extent, is admitted. No
one will contend, that the common law, as it existed in England, has ever been in force in all its provisions, in any state in
this union. It was adopted, so far only as its principles were
suited to the condition of the colonies : and from.this circumstance we see, what is common law in one- state, is not so considered in another. The judicial decisions, the usages and
customs of the respective states, must determine, how far the
common law has been introduced and sanctioned in each.
In the argument, it was insisted, that no presumption could
be drawn against the existence of the common law, as to copyrights, in Pennsylvania, from the fact of its never having been
asserted, until the commencement of this suit.
It may be true, in general, that the failure to assert any par.
ticular right, may afford no evidence of the non existence of
such right. But the present case may well form an exception
to this rule.
If the common law, in all its provisions, has not been introduced into Pennsylvania, to what extenthas it been adopted?
Must not this court have some evidence on this subject. If no
right, such as is set up by the complainants, has heretofore been
asserted, no custom or usage established, no judicial decision
been given, can the conclusion be justified, that, by the common law of Pennsylvania, an author has a perpetual property
in the copyright of his works.
These considerations might well lead the court to doubt the
existence of this Jaw in Pennsylvania ; but there are others of
a more conclusive character.
The question respecting the literary property of authors, was
not made a subject of judicial investigation in England until
1760 ; and no decision was given until the case of Miller v.
Taylor was decided in 1769. Long before this time, the colony of Pennsylvania was settled. What part of the common
law did Penn and his associates bring with them from Engand ?
The literary property of authors, as now asserted, was their
unknown in that country. Laws had been passed, regulating
the publication of new works under license. And the king, as
the head of the church and the state, claimed the exclusive

SUPREME COURT.
LWheaton and Donaldson v. Petersand Grigg;]

right of publishing the acts of parliamenl, the book of common
prayer, and a few other books.
No such right at the common law had been recognized in
England, when the colony of Penn was organized. Long
afterwards, literary property became a subject of controversy,
but the question was involved in great doubt and- perplexity ;
and a little more than a century ago, it was decided by the
highest judicial court in England, that the right of authors
could not be asserted at common law, but under the statute.
The statute of 8 Anne was passed in 1710.
Can it be contended,-that this common law right, so involved
in doubt as to divide the most learned jurists of England, at a
period in her history, as much distinguished by learning and
talents as any other; was brought into the wilds of Pennsylvania by its first adventurers. Was it suited to their condition .
But there is another view still more con(lusive.
In the eighth section of the first article of the constitution of
the United States it is declared, that congress shall have power
"to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive
right to their respective writings and discoveries." And in
pursuance of the power thus delegated, congress passed the
.act of the 30th of May 1790.
This is entitled "an act for the encouragement of learning,
by securing the copies of maps, charts and books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times therein
mentioned."
In the first section of this act, it is provided, "that from and
after its passage, the author and authors of any map, chart,
book or books, already printed within these United States,
being a citizen, &c. who hath or have not transferred to any
other person ,the copyright of such, map, chart, book or books,
&c. shall have the sole right and liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing and vending such map, book or books, for fourteen years."
In behalf of the common law right, an argument has been
drawn from the word secure, which is used in relation to this
right, both in the constitution and in the acts of congress.
This word, when used as a verb actte, signifies to protect,
insure, save, ascertaio, &c.

JANUARY TERM 1384.

661

[Wheaton and.Donaldson v..Peters and Grigg.)

The counsel for the complainants insist that the term, as
used, clearly indicates an intention, not to originate a right,
but to protect onealready in eiistence.
There is no mode by which the meaning affixed to any
word or sentence, by a deliberative body, can be so well ascertained, as by comparing it with the words and sentences with
which it stands connected. By this rule the word secure, as
used in the constitution, could not mean the protection of an
acknowledged legal right. It refers to inventors, as well as
authors, and it has never been pretended, by any one, either
in this country or in England, that an inventor has a perpetual
right, at common law, to sell the thing invented.
And if the word secure is used in the constitution, in reference to a future right, was it not so used in the act of congress ?
But, it is said, that part of the first section of the act of congress, which has been quoted, a copyright is not only recognized as existing, but that it may be assigned, as the rights of
the assignee are protected, the same as those of the author.
As before stated, an author has, by the common law, a property in his manuscript; and there can be no doubt that the
rights of an assignee of such manuscript, would be protected
by a court of chancery. This is presumed to be the copyright
recognized in the act, and which was intended to be protected
by its provisions. And this protection was given, as well to
books published under such circumstances, as to manuscript
copies.
That congress, in passing the act of 1790, did not legislate
in reference to existing rights, appears lear, from the provision
that the author, &c. "shall have'the sole right and liberty of
printing," &c. Now if this exclusive right existed at common
law, and congress were about to adopt legislative provisions. for
its protection, would they have used this language? Could they
have deemed it necessary to vest a right already vested. Such
a presumption is refuted by the words above quoted, and their
force is not lessened by any other part of the act.
Congress, then, by this act, instead of sanctioning an existing right, as contended for, created it. This seems to be the
clear import of the law, connected with the circumstances
under which it was enacted.

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

From these considerations i would seem, that if the right of
the complainants can be sustained, it must be sustained under
the acts of congress. Such was, probably, the opinion of the
counsel who framed the bill, as the right is asserted under the
statutes, and no particular reference is made to it as existing
at common law. The claim, then, of the complainants, must
be examined in reference to the statutes under which it is
asserted.
There are but two statutes which have a bearing on this
subject; one of them has already been named, and the other
was passed the 29th of April 1802.
The first section of the act of 1790 provides, that an author,
or his assignee, "shall have the sole right and liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing and vending such map, chart, book
or books, for the term of fourteen years, from the recording of
the title thereof in the clerk's office, as hereinafter directed:
and that the author, &c. in books not published, &c. shall have
the sole right and liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing
and vending such map, chart, book or books, for the like term
of fourteen years, from the time of recording the title thereof
in the clerk's office, as aforesaid. And at the expiration of
the said term, the author, &c. shall have the same dxclusive
right continued to him, &c. for the further term of fourteen
years: provided he or they shall cause the title thereof to be a
second time recorded, and published in the same manner as ie
hereinafter directed, and that within six months before the
expiration of the first term of fourteen years."
The third section provides, that "no person shall be entitled
to the benefit of this act, &c., unless he shall first deposit,
&c., a printed copy of the title in the clerk's office, &c."
"And such author or proprietor, shall within two months
from the date thereof, cause a copy of said record to be published in one or more of the newspapers printed in the United
States, for the space of four weeks."
And the fourth section enacts that "the author, &c., shall,
within six months after the'publishing thereof, deliver or cause
to be delivered to the secretary of state, a copy of the same.
to be preserved in his office."
The first section of the act of 1802 provides, that 1"every
person who shall claim to be the author, &c;, before he shall

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

be entitled to the benefit of the .act entitled an act for the
encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps,
charts .and books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies,
during the time therein, mentioned, he shall, in addition to the
requisites enjoined in the third and fourth sections of said act,
if a book or books, give information by causing the copy of the
record which by said act he is required to publish, to be inserted in the page of the book next to the title."
These are substantially the provisions by which the complainants' right must be tested. They claim under a renewal
of the term, but this necessarily involves the validity of the
right under the first as well as the second term. In the language of the statute, the "same exclusive right" is continued
the second term that existed the first.
It will be observed, that a right accrues under the act'of
1790, from the time a copy of the title of the book is deposited
in the clerk'p office. But the act of 1802 adds another requisite to the accruing of the right, 'and that is, that the record
made by the clerk, shall be published in the page next to the
title page of the book.
And it is argued with great earnestness and ability, that
these are the- only requisites to the perfection of the complainants' title. That the requisition of the third section to give
public notice in the newspapers, and that contained in the
fourth to deposit a copy in the department of state; are acts
subsequent to the accruing of the right, and whether they are
performed or not, cannot materially affect the title.
The case is compared to a grant with conditions subsequent, which can never operate as a forfeiture of the title. It
is said also that the object of the publication in the newspapers,
and the deposite of the copy in the department of state was
merely to give notice to the public; and 'that such acts, not
being essential to the title, after so great a lapse of time, may
well be presumed. That if neither act had been done, the
right of the partyhaving accrued, before either was reiuired
to be done, it must remain unshaken.
This right, as has been shown, does not exist at common
law-it originated, if at all, under the acts of congress. No
one can deny that when the legislature are about to vest an
exclusive* right in an author or an inventor, they have the

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheatoni and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

power to prescribe the conditions on which such right shall be
enjoyed; and that no one can avail himself of such right who
does not substantially comply with the requisitions of the law.
This principle is familiar, as it regards patent rights; and it
is the same in relation to the copyright of a book. If any difference shall be made, as it respects a strict .conformity to the
law, it would seem to be more reasonable to make the requirement of the author, rather than tle inventor.
The papers of the latter are examined in the department of
state, and require the sanction of the attorney-general; but
the author takes every step on his own responsibility, unchecked by the scrutiny or sanction of any public functionary.
The acts required to bo done by an author, to secure his
right, are in the order in which they must naturally transpire.
First, the title of the book is to be deposited with the clerk,
and the record he makes must be inserted in the first or second
page; then the public notice in the newspapers is to be given;
and within six months after the' publication of the book, a
copy must be deposited in the department of state.
A right undoubtedly accrues on the record being made with
the clerk, and the printing of it as required ; but what is the
nature of that right. Is it perfect ? If so, the other two
requisites are wholly useless.
How can the author be compelled either to give notice in
the newspaper, or deposit a copy in the state department.
The statute affixes no penalty for a failure to perform either of
these acts; and it provides no means, by which it may be
enforced.
But we are told they are unimportant acts. If they are
indeed wholly unimportant, congress acted unwisely in requiring them to be done. But whether they are important or
not, is not for the court to determine, but the legislature; and
in what light they were considered by the legislature, we can
learn only by their official acts.
Judging then of these acts by this rule, we are not at. liberty
to say they are unimportant and may be dispensed with.
They are acts which the law requires to be done, and may this
court dispense with their performance.
But the inquiry is made, shall the non performance of these
subsequent conditions operate as a forfeiture of the right ?

JAP'UARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and 'Grigg.]

The answer is, that this is not a technical grant of precedent
and subsequent conditions. All the conditions are important;
the law requires them to be performed; and, consequently, their
performance is essential to a perfect title. On the performance of a part of them, the right vests; and this was qssential
to its protection under the statute: but other acts are to be
done, unless congress have legislated in vain, to render the
right perfect.
*The notice could not be published until after the entry with
the clerk, nor could the book be deposited with the secretary
of state until it was published. But these are acts riot less
important than those which are requirdd to be done previously.
They iorm a part of the title, and until they are performed, the
title is not perfect.

The deposite of the book in the department of state, may be
important to identify it at any future period, should the copyright be contested, or an unfounded claim of authorship asserted.
But, if doubts could be entertained whether the notice and
deposite of the book in the state department, were essential to
the title, under the act of 1790; on which act my.opinion is
principally founded; though I consider it in c6nnexion with-the
other act; there is, in the opinion of three of the judges, no
ground for doubt under the act of 1802. The latter act declares that every author, &c. before he shall be entitled to the
benefit of the former act, shall, "in addition to the requisitions
enjoined in the third and fourth sections of said act, if a book,
publish," &c.
Is not this a clear exposition of the first act? Can an author claim the benefit of the act of 1790, without performing
"the requisites enjoined in the third aiid fourth sections of it."
If there be any meaning in language, the act of 1802, the
three judges think, requires these requisites to be performed "in
addition" to the one required by that act, before an autbor, &c.
'qshall be entitled to the benefit of the first act."
The rule by which conditions precedent and subsequent are
construed, in a grant, can have no application to the case under
consideration ; as every requisite, in both acts, is essential to
the title.
A renewal of the term of fourteen years, can only be obVOL. viii.-4 i

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson r. Peters and Grigg.]

tamed by having the title page recorded with the- clerk, and
the record published on the page next to that of the title, and
public notice given Within six months before the expiration of
the first term.
In opposition to 'the construction -of the above" statutes,o s
nbw given, the counsel for the complainants referred to several
decisions in England, on the construction of the statute of
8 Anne, and other statutes.
In'the case of Beckford v. Hood, 7 Term. Rep. 620, the court
ofking's bench decided, "that an author, whose work is pirated
before the expiration of twenty-eight years from the first publication of it, may maintain an action on the case for damages,
against the offending party, although the work was not entered
at Stationers Hall." But this entry was necessary only to
subject the offender to certain penalties, provided in, the statute
of 8 Anne. The suit brought was not-for the penalties, and
consequently, the entry of the work at Stationers Hall, was
not made a question in the case. In the case of Blackwell
v., Harper, 2 Atk. 95, Lord Hardwicke-is reported to have said,
upon the -act of 8 Anne, c. 19, "the clause of registering with
the: Stationers Company, is relative to the penalty, and the
property cannot vest without such entry;" for the words are,
fl that nothing in this act shall be construed to subject any
bookseller, &c. to the forfeitures, &c. by reason of printing any
book, &c. unless the title to the copy of such book, hereafter
published, shall, before such publication, be entered in the
register book of 'the Company of Stationers."
The very language quoted by his lordship shows, that the
entry was not necessary to an investiture of. the -title, but to
the recovery of the penalties provided in the act against those
who pirated the work.
His lordship deeided in the samhe case, that "under an act of
parliament; providing that a certain inventor shall have the
sole right and liberty of printing and reprinting certain -prints
for the term of fourteen years, and to commence from the day
of first publishing thereof, which shall be truly engraved with
the name of the pxoprietor on each plate,, and printed on every
such print or prin'ts," the property in the prints vests absolutely in the engraver, though the day of publication is not
mentioned."

JANUARY TERM' 1834.
tWhefIton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

The authority of this case is seriously questioned in the ease
of Newton v. Cowie, 4 Bingham 241. And it,would seem, froni
the decision of Lord Hardwicke, that he had doubts of the correctness of the decision, as he decreed an injunction, without
by-gone profits. And Lord Alvanly, in the' case of Harrison v.
Hogg, cited in 4 Bing. 242, said "that he was glad he wds
relieved .from.deciding on the same act, as he was inclinid to
Oiffer from Lord Hardwicke."
By a: reference to the English authorities in the construction of statutes, somewhat analogous to those under which the
complainants set up their right, it wilt be found that the decisions often conflict with each other; but it is believed that, no
settled construction has been given to any British statute, in
all respects similar to those under consideration, which is at
variance with the one now given. If,however, such an
instance -could be found, it would not lessen the confidence we
feel in the correctness of the view which we have taken.
-The act of congress under which Mr Wheaton, one of the
cormplinants, in his capacity of reporter, -was required to
deliver eighty copies of each volume of his reports to the department of state, and which were, probabjy, faithfully delivered, does not exonerate. him from the deposite of a copy
under the act of 1790. The eighty volumes were delivered
for a-different purpose; and. cannot excuse the deposite of the
one volume as specially required.
The construction of the acts of congress being settled, in
the further investigation of the case it would become necessary
to look into the evidence and ascertain whether the complainants have'not shown a substantial compliance with every legal
requisite. But on reading the evidence we entertain ,doubtsi,
which induce us to remand the cause to the circuit court,
where the facts can be ascertained by a jury,
And the cause is accordingly remanded to the circuit court,
with directions to that court to order an issue of facts to be
examined and tried by a jury, at the bar of said court, upon
this point, viz. whether the said Wheaton as author, or any
other person as proprietor, had complied with the requisites
prescribed by the third and. fourth sections of the said act of
congress, passed the 31st day of May 1790, in regard to the
volumes of Wheaton's Reports in the said bill mentioned, or in

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg. ]

regard to one or more of them in the following particulars, viz.
whether the said Wheaton or proprietor did, withiw two
months from the date of the recording thereof in the clerk's
office of the district court, causd a copy of the said recori to be
published in one or more of the newspapers printed in the
resident states, for the space of four weeks; and whether the
said Wheaton or proprietor after the publishing thereof, did
deliver or cause to be delivered to the secretary of state of the
United States, a copy of the same to be preserved in his office,
according to the provisions of the said third and fourth sections
of the said act.
And if the said requisites have not been complied with in
regard to all the said volumes, then the jury to find in particular in regard to what volumes they or either of them have
been so complied with.
It may be proper to remark that the court are unanimously
of opinion, that no reporter has or can have any copyright in
the -written opinions delivered" by this court; and that the
judges thereof cannot confer on any reporter any such right.
Mr Justice THOMPSON, dissenting.

It is matter of regret with me, at any time to dissent from
an opinion pronounced by a. majority of this-court, andfwhere
my mind is left balancing, after a full examination of the case,
my habitual respect for the opinion of my brethren may justify
a surrender of my own. But where no such apology is left to
me to rest upon, it becomesa duty to adhere to my own opinion ;
and I shall proceed to assign the reasons which have led me
to a conclusion different from that at which a majority of the
court has arrived.
It is unnecessary for me to'state any thing more with respect
to the bill and answer, than barely to observe that the complainants in the court below rest their claim, both upon the
statutory and the common law right. The bill charges, that
all the provisions of the acts of congress have been complied
with; that every thing has been done which was required by
those acts in order to entitle them to the benefit thereof; and
that if it were otherwise, the oratori Henry Wheaton, has, as
the author of said reports, the property in the copy of the same,
.and the sole right to eniov and dispose of the same.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

It would be improper in the present stage of this cause to.
examine the evidence which. was before the court below,
touching certain questions of fact which it is alleged are required by the acts of congress in order to entitle the complain.
ants to the benefit of those acts, have been complied with.
An issue has been directed to inquire into those matters., Nor
is it deemed necessary to examine whether the publication of
the Condensed Reports by the defendants, is a violation of the
complainants' copyright, if they have complied with all the
requisites of the acts of congress. This would seem necessarily
implied, by the ordering of the issue; for such inquiries would
be useless, if the right secured under those acts has not been
violated.
I shall therefore confine myself to an examination of the
common law right, and the effect and operation of the acts of
congress upon such right.
I think I may assume as a proposition not to be questioned,
that in England, prior to the statute of Anne, the right of an
author to the benefit and profit of his work, is recognized by
the common law. No case has been cited on the argument,
and none has fallen under my observation, at all throwing in
doubt this general propostlon. Whenever the question has
been there agitated, it has been in connection with the operation of the statute upon this right. The case of Miller v.
Taylor, 4 Burr. 2303, decided in the year 1769, was the first
determination in- the court of king's bench upon the common
law right of literary property. In that case the broad question
i§ stated and examined, whether the copy of a book or literary
composition belongs to the author by the common law; and
three of the judges, including Lord Mansfield, decided in the
affirmative. Mr Justice Yeates dissented. But I am not aware
that upon this abstract question a contrary decision has ever
been 'made in England. This would seem to be sufficient to
put at rest that general question, and render it unnecessary to
go into a very particular examination of the reasons and
grounds upon which the decision was founded. The elaborate
examination bestowed upon the question by the judges in that
case, has brought into view, on both sides of the question, the
main arguments of which the point is susceptible. The great
principle on which the author's right rests, is, thdt it is the

670

SUPREME-COURT.
(Wheaton and Dbnaldson v.

eters and Grigg.]

fruit or production of his- own labour, and which may, by -the
labour of the faculties of the mind, establish a right of property,
as well as by the faculties of the body; and it is difficult to.
perceive any well founded objection to such a claim of right.
It is founded upon the soundest principles of justice, equity and
public policy. Blackstone, in his Commentaries, 2d.vol. 405,
has succinctly stated the principle,.that when a 'Man, by the
exertion of his rational powers, has produced an original work,
he seems to have clearly a right to dispose of that identical
work as he pleases; and any attempt to vary the disposition he
has made, of it, appears to be an invasion of that right. That
the 'identity-of a literary composition consists entirely in the
sentiment and the language. The same conception, clothed
in thp same words, must necessarily be the same composition;
and whatever method be taken to exhibit that composition to
the ear or to the eye of another, by recital, by writing, or by
printing, in any number of copies, or at any period of time, it is
always the identical work of the author which is so exhibited;
and no other man, it has been thought, can'have a right to
exhibit it, especi~dly for profit, without the author's consent.
The origin of this right is not probably to be. satisfactorily
ascertained,- and indeed if it could, it might be considered an
objection to its existence as a common" law right; but'from the
time of the invention of printing, in the early partv of the fifteenth century, such a right seems to have been recognized.
The historical account of the recoknition of the right, is to'be
collected from the discussions in Miller v. Taylor. The Stationers Company was incorporated in the year 1556, and from
that time to the year 1640 the crown exercised an unlimited
authority over the press, which was enforced by the summary
process of search, confiscation and-imprisomnent, given to the
Stationers Company, and executed by the then supreme jurisdiction of the star chamber. In the year 1640 the star chamber
was abolished; and the existence 9f copyrights before that
period, upon principles of usage, can only be looked for in the
Stationers Company, or the star chamber or acts of state; and.
the evidence upon this point, says Mr Justice Wills, is liable to
little suspicion. It was indifferent to the views of government
whether the property of an innocent book licensed, was open or
private property.

JANUARY TERM 1834.

671

Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters 'and Qrlgg.]

It was certainly against the power of the crown to allow it
as private property, without being protected by any royal privilege. It could be done.only on principles of private justice,
moral fitness and public convenience, which, when applied to
a new subject, make common law, without a precedent; much
more when received and approved by usage. And in this
case of Miller v. Taylor, it was found by the special verdict,
"that before the reign of her late majesty, queen Anne, it was
usual to purchase. from authors the perpetual copyright of their
books, and to assign the same from band to hand for valuable
consideration, and to make the same the subject of family settlements, for the provision of wives and children." This usage
is evidence of the common law, and shows that the copyright
was considered and treated as property, transferable from
party to party; and property, too, of a permanent nature, suitable for family settlement and provisions.
Common law, says Lord Coke, 1 Inst. 1, 2, is sometimes
called right, common right, common justice.. And Lord Mansfield says, the common lav is drawn from the principles of right
and wrong, the fitness of things, convenience -and policy. And
it is upon these principles that the opyright of authors is protected. After the year 1640, when the press became subject.
to license, the various ordinances and acts of parliament referred
to in Miller v. Taylor, and collected in Maugham's treatise on
the Law of Literary Property, p. 13-16, necessarily imply,
and presuppose, the existence of a- common, law right in the
author.
The common law, says an- eminent jurist, 2 Kent's Comm.
471, includes those principles, usages and rules:of action, applicable to the government and security of person and property
which do n~ot- rest for their authority upon any express and
positive declaration of the will of the. legislature. A great
proportion of the rules and maxims which constitute the im mense code' oi the common law, grew into use by gradual
adoption, and received, from time to time, the sanction of the
courts of justice, without any "legislative act or interference.
It was the application of the dictates of natural Justc, and of
cultivdted reason, to particular cases. In thejust language -of
sir Matthew Hale, the common law of England is not the pro.
duct of the.wisdom of some one man, or society of men, in any

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldsonv. Peters and Grigg.]

one age, but of the wisdom, counsel, experience and observation of many ages of wise and observing men. And, in accordance with these sound principles, and as applicable to the
subject of copyright, are the remarks'of Mr Christian, in his
notes to Blackstone's Commentaries, 2 B1. Comm. 06, and
note. Nothing, says he, is more erroneous, than the practice
of referring the origin of moral rights, and the system of natural equity, to the savage state, which is supposed to have preceded civilized establishments, in which literary composition,
and, of consequence, the right to it, could have no existence.
But the true mode of ascertaining a moral right, is to inquire
whether it is such As the reason, the cultivated reason of mankind must necessarily assent to. No proposition seems more
conformable to that criterion, than that every one should enjoy
the reward of his labour, the harvest where he has sown, or
the fruit of the tree which he has planted. Whether literary
property is sui generis, or under whatever denomination of
rights it may be classed, it seems founded upon the same principle of general utility to society, which is the basis of all other
moral rights and obligations. Thus considered, an author's
copyright ought to be esteemed an invaluable right, established
in sound reason and abstract morality.
It is unnecessary, for the purpose of showing my views upon
this branch of the case, to add any thing more. In my judgment, every principle of justice, equity, morality, fitness and
sound policy concurs, in protecting the literary labours of men,
to the same extent that property acquired by manual labour is
protected. The objections to the admission of the common law
right of authors, are generally admitted to be summed up, in all
their force and strength, by Mr Justice Yeates, in the case of
Miller v. Taylor. These objections may be classed under two
heads ' the one founded upon the nature of the property or
subject matter of the right claimed; and the other on the presumed abandonment of the right by the author's publication.
Thefirst appears to me to be too subtle and metaphysical to
command the assent of any one, or to be adopted as the ground
of deciding the question. It seems to be supposed, thalt the
right claimed is to the ideas contained in the book.* The
claim, says Mr Justice Yeates, is to the style and ideas of the
athor's composition; and it is a well established maxim, that

JANUARY TERM _1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

nothing can be an object of property which has not a borporal
substance. The property claimed is all ideal; a set of ideas
which have no bounds or marks whatever-nothing that is
capable of a visible possession-nothing that can sustain any
one of the qualities or incidents of property. Their whole
existence is in the mind alone. Incapable of any other modes
of acquisition or enjoyment than by mental possession or apprehension ; safe and invulnerable from' their own immate-riality, no trespass can reach them, no tort affect them ; no
fraud or violence diminish or damage them. Yet these are the
phantoms which the author would grasp and confine to himself; and these are what the defendant is charged with having
robbed the plaintiff of.
He asks, can sentiments themselves (apart from the paper
on which they are contained) be taken in execution for a debt;or if the author commits treason or felony, or is outlawed, can
the ideas be forfeited '
Can'sentiments be seized ; or, by any
act whatever, be vested in the crown I If they cannot be
seized, the sole right of publishing them cannot be confined to
the author. How strange and singular, says he, must this
extraordinary kind of property be, which cannot be visibly possessed, forfeited or seized, nor is susceptible of any external
injury, nor, consequently, of any specific or possible remedy.
These, and many other similar declarations are made by
Mr Justice Yeates, to illustrate his view of the nature of a copyright. And he seems to treat thequestion, as if the claim was
to a mere idea, not embodied or exhibited in any tangible form
or shape. No such pretension has ever been set up, that I am
aware of, by any advocate of the right to literary property.
And this view of it would hardly.deserve a serious notice, had
it not been taken by a distinguished judge. Lord Mansfield,
in the case of Miller v. Taylor, in defining the natule of the
right or copyright, says, "I use the word copy. in the technical sense in which that name or term has been used for ages,
to signify an incorporeal right to the sole printing and publishing of something intellectual, communicated by letters;" and
this is the sense in which I understand the term copyright
always to be used, when spoken of as property.
The other objection urged by Mr Justice Yeates, that the
publication by' the author is an abandonment of the exclusive
voL. vm.-4 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.)

right, rests upon more plausible grounds, but is equally destitute
of solidity.
This would seem, according to his view of the case, the mnain
point in the cause. The general question, he says, is, whether,
after a voluntary and general publicationof an authr's work
by himself) or by his authority, the author has a sole and perpetual property in that work, so as to give him a right to confine every subsequent publication to himself, or his assigns, for
ever.
And he lays down this general proposition. That the right
of publication must for ever depend on the claimant's property
in the thing to be published. Whilst the subject of publication
continues his own ex(,lusive property, he will so long have the
sole and perpetual right to publish it. But whenever that
property ceases, or by any act or event becomes common, the
right of publication will' be equally common. The particular
terms in which Mr Justice Yeates states his proposition, are
worthy of notice. 'He puts the case upon its being a general
publication, the meaning of which undoubtedly is, that the publication is with~ut any restriction expressed or implied, as to
the use to be made of it by the party into whose hands it might
come, by purchase ov otherwise. Unless suchwas his meaning,
the proposition, I prbsume, no one will contend, can be maintained. Suppose aft express contract made with a party who
shall purchase a book, that he shall not republish it; this surely
would be binding upon him.
So, if the bookseller should give a like notice of the author's
claim, and a purchase of a book made without any express
stipulation not to republish, the law would imply an assent to
the condition. And any circumstances from which such an
undertaking could be reasonably inferr~d, would lead to the
same legal consequences. The nature of the property, and the
general purposes for which it is published and sold, show the
use which is to be made of it. The usual and common object
which a person has in view in the purchase of a book is for the
instruction, information or entertainment to be derived from it,
and not for republication of the work. It is the use of it for
these purposes which is implied in the sale and purchase. And
this use. is in subordination to the antecedent and higher right
f the author; and comes strictly within the maxim, sic utere

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

tuo ut alienam non loedas. But the case is not left to rest on
any implied notice of the author's claim, and the conditions on
which he makes it public. This is contained on the title page
of the very book purchased, and cannot be presumed to escape
the notice of the purchaser. It is there, in terms, announced,
that the author claims the right of publication ; and whoever
purchases, therefore, does it with notice of such claim, and is
bound to use it in subordination thereto. Mr Justice Yeates
admits, that every man is entitled to the fruits of his;own labour;
but that he can be entitled to it only, subject to the general
rights of mankind, and the general rules of property ; and that
there must be a limitation to such right, otherwise the rights of
others are inffinged. The force of such limitation upon the
right, is not readily perceived. If the right exists, it is a common law right, growing out of the natural justice of the case;
being the result of a man's own labour. He thinks the statute
of Anne fixes a just limitation. But suppose no statute had
been passed on the subject ; where would have been the limitati6n? The right existing, who would have authority to say
where it should end 1 It must necessarily be without limitation, and it isno infringement of the rights of others. 'They
enjoy it for the purpose intended, and according to the nature
of the property. The purchaser of the book has a right to all
the benefit resulting from the information or amusement he can
derive from it. And if, in consequence thereof, he can write a
book on the same subject, he has a right so to do. But thisis
a very different use of the property from the taking and publishing the very language and sentiment of the author; which
constitute the identity of his work.
Mr Justice Yeates puts the effect of a publication upon the
ground of intent in the author. The act of publication, says
he, when voluntarily done by the author, is virtually and
necessarily a gift to the public. And be must be deemed to
have so intended it. But no such intention can surely be inferred, when the contrary intention is ihiscribed upon the first
page of the book, which cannot escape notice.
The case of Percival v. Phipps, 2 Ves. and Beam. 1'd, recognises the implied. prohibition against publishing the work
of another, arising from the very nature of the property. It
'was held in that case, that private letters, having the character

SUPREME COURT,
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

of.. literary composition, were within the spirit of the act protecting literary property, and that by sending a letter, the writer did not give the receiver authority to publish it; and this is
the doctrine of Lord Hardwicke in Pope v. Carl, 2 Atk. 842,
where it is said that familiar letters may form a literary composition, in which the author retains his copyright, and does
not, by sending them to the person to whom they are addressed,
authorise him or a third person to use them for the purpose of
profit, by publishing them against the interest and intention of
the author. That by sending the letter, though he parts withthe property of the paper, he does not part with the property
of copyright in the composition.
But how stands the case, with respect to the effect of publication by the author, according to Mr Justice Yeates's own rule.
He says, "in all abandonments of such kind of property, two
circumstances are necessary," an actue relinquishing the
possession, and an intention to relinquish it. 'That the author's
name being inserted in the title page is no reason against the
abandonment ; for many of our best and noblest authors have
published their works from more generous views than pecuniary profit. Some have written for fame, and the benefit of
mankind. That the omiesion ,f the author's name can make
no difference; for if the property be absolutely his, he has no
occasion to add his name to the title page. He cannot escape,
it seems, from calling the copyright property, although a mere
idea; afid resorts again to his favourite theory, that it has no
indicia, no distinguishing marks to denote his proprietary intererst therein'; and hard, says he, would be the law, that
should adjudge a man guilty of a crime, when he had no possibility of knowing that he was doing the least Wrong to any
individual. That he could not know who was the proprietor
of these intellectual ideas, they not having any ear-mparks
upon them, or tokens of a particular proprietor.
If, as Mr Justice Yeates admits, it is a question of intention
whether the author meant to abandon his work to the public,
and relinquish all private or individual claims to it, no possible
doubt can exist as to the conclusion in the present case.
Would a jury hesitate a moment upon the question under the
etidence before the court I The right set up and stamped uporn
the title p4ge of the book, shuts the door against any infer.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[WhQalon W .Doppsdson v, Peters and Grigg.]

ence, that the publication was intended to be a gift to the
public.
Mr Justice
tes admits, that so long as a literary composition isin man
ipt, and remains under the sole dominion of
the author, it is his exclusive property. It would seem, therefore, that the idea when once reduced to writing, is susceptible
of identity, and becomes the subject of property. But property without the right to use it, is empty sound, says Mr
Justice Aston in Miller v. Taylor. And, indeed, it would
seem a mere mockery for the law to recognize any thing as
property, which the owner could not use safely and securely
for the purposes for which it was intended, unless interdicted,
by the principles of morality or public policy.
It is not necessary that I should go into any particular examination of the construction of the statute of Anne, or to
what extent it may affect the common law right of authors in
England; because, as I shall hereafter show, that statute was
never considered in force in Pennsylvania. The mere common
law right, uninfluenced by that statute, is alone drawn in
question under this branch of the case. And the decision in
the case of Miller v. Taylor, would seem to put that question
at rest in England, at that day. Mr Justice Yeates, in aid of
his opinion, relied much upon that statute; arguing that from
the title, which is an "act for the encouragement of learning
by vesting the copies of printed books in the authors or purchasers of such copies during the times therein mentioned;"
and from the provision in the act, that the sole right should be
vested, &c. for twenty-one years and no longer; the right
was created, and limited by the act, and did not rest upon the
common law. The other three judges, however, maintained,

that an author's right was not derived from the statute, but
that he had an original perpetual common law right and property in his work, and that the statute was only cumulative,
and giving additional remedies for a violation of the right.
That the preamble in the act proceeds up6n the ground of a
right of property in the author having been violated; and that
the act was intended as a confirmation of such right. And
that from the remedy enacted against the violation of the
right being only temporary, it might be argued, that it afforded
an implication, that there existed no right but what was

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

secured by the act. To guard against which, there is an
express saving in the ninth section of the act. "Provided that
nothing in this act contained, shall extend or be construed to
extend either to prejudice or confirm any right, that the said
universities or any of them, or any person or persons, have or
claim to have to the printing or reprinting, any book or copy
already printed or hereafter to be printed." That the words
any right, manifestly ineant any other right, than the term
secured by the act. It may be observed here, that whatever
may be the just weight to be given to the term "vested" and
the words "no longer," as used in the statute of Anne, and so
much relied on by Mr Justice Yeates, have no application to
our acts of congress; no such term or provision being used. A
.writ of error was brought in this case of Miller v. Taylor, but
afterwards abandoned, and the law was considered settled,
until called in question in Donaldson v. Beckett, 4 Burr. 2408,
which came before the house of lords in the year 1774, upon
an appeal from a decree of the court of chancery, founded
upon the judgment'in Miller v. Taylor.
Upon this appeal certain questions were propounded to the
twelve judges. Lord Mansfield, however gave no opinion, it
being very unusual, as the reporter states, from reasons of
delicacy, for a peer to support his own judgment upon appeal
to the house of lords. This statement necessarily implies,
however, that he had not changed his opinion. There were,
therefore, eleven judges who voted upon the questions.
One of the questions propounded was: whether, at common
law, an author of any book or literary composition, had the
sole right of first printing and publishing the same for sale, and
might bring an action against any person who printed, published and sold the same without his consent.
Upon this question ten voted in the affirmative, and one in
the negative.
Another question was: if the author had such right originally, did the law take it away, upon his printing and publishing
such book or literary composition, and might any person, afterwards, reprint and sell, for his own benefit, such book or literary composition, against the will of the author.
Upon this question seven were in the negative, and four in
the affirmative.

JANUARY TERM 1834.

679

[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

The vote upon these two questions settled the point, that,
by the common law, the author of any literary composition,
and his assigns, had th6 sole right of printing and publishing
the same in perpetuity.
Another question propounded was: if an action would
have lain, at common law, is it taken away by the statute of
Anne ? and is an author, by the said statute, precluded from
every remedy, except on the foundation of the statute, and on
the terms and conditions prescribed thereby ?
Upon this question, six voted in the affirmative, and five in
the negative ; and it will be perceived, that if Lord Mansfield
had voted on this question, and in conformity with his opinion
in Miller v. Taylor, the judges would have been equally divided.
That the law in England has not been considered as settled,
in conformity with the vote on this last question, is very certain. For it is the constant practice, in chancery, to grant
injunctions to restrain printers from publishing the works of
others, which practice can only besustained on the ground
that the penalties given by the statute, are not the only remedy that can be resorted to. In Miller v. Taylor, Lord Mansfield says, the whole jurisdiction exercised by the court of chancery, since 1710, the date of the statute of Anne, against
pirates of copies, is an authority that authors had a property
antecedent, to which the act gives a temporary additional security. It can stand upon no other foundation. And in the
case of Beckford v. Hood, 7 Term Rep. 616, it was decided,
that an author whose work is pirated before the expiration of
the time limited in the statute, may maintain an action on the
case for damages, against the offending party. Lord Kenyon
says, the question is, whether the right of property being vested
in authors for certain periods,,the common law remedy for a
violation of it, does not attach within the time limited by the
act of parliament. Within those periods, the act says, that
the author shall' have the sole right and liberty of printing, &c.
Thus the statute having vested that right in the author, the
common law gives the remedy by action in the case for violation of it; and that the meaning of the act in creating the
penalties, was to give an accumulative remedy. And in
this all the judges concurred. And Mr J istice Grose ob-

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

serves, that in the great case of Miller v. Taylor, Mr Justice
Yeates gave his opinion against the common law right of
authors; but be was decidedly of opinion, that an exclusive
right of property was vested by the statute for the time limited ; and he says, that by the deciadon in the house of lords of
Donaldson v. Beckett, the common law right of action is not
considered as taken away by the statute of Anne, but that it
could not be exercised beyond the time limited by that statute :
and it is worthy of notice that this action on the case, for
damages, was sustained, although the Work was not entered
at Stationers Hall, nor the author's name affixed to the first
publication. This, Lord Kenyon observes, was to serve as a
notice and warning to the public, that none might ignorantly
incur the penalties and forfeitures given against such as pirate
the works of others. But calling on a party who has injured
the civil property of another, for a remedy in damages, cannot
properly fall under the description of a forfeiture or penalty.
From this view of the law, as it stands in England, it is
very clear that, previous to the statute of Anne, the perpetual
common law right of authors, was undisputed. That afterthat
statute, in the case of Miller v. Taylor, it wab feld, that this
common law right remained unaffected by the statute, which
only gave a cumulative remedy. That the subsequent case of
Donaldson v. Beckett, limited the right to the times mentioned
in the statute. But that for all violations of the right during
that time, all the common law remedies continued, although
no entry of the work at Stationers Hall had been made, according to the provisions of the statute. Such entry being
necessary, only for the purpose of subjecting the party violating
the right, to the penalties given by the act.
I do not deem it necessary particularly to inquire, whether, as
an abstract question, the same reasons do not exist for the protdction of mechanical iuventions, as the production of mental
labour. The inquiry is not, whether it would have been wise
to have recognized an exclusive right to mechanical inventions.
It is enough, when we are inquiring what the law is, and not
what it ought to have been, to find that no such principle ever
has been recognized by any judicial decision. The argument
was urged with great earnestness by Mr Justice Yeates in Miller v. Taylor, but repudiated by Lord Mansfield and the other

JANUARY TERM 1884..
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

judges. With respect to copyrights, however, the law has been
considered otherwise ; and the original conmnon law right fully
established, though modified. in some respects by the statute of
Anne.
I shall proceed, now, to some notice of the light in which
copyrights have been viewed in this country.
It appears from the journals of tie old congress (8 Journals 257), that this question was brought before that body by
sundry papers and memorials on the subject of literaryproperty;
and which were referred to a committee, of which Mr Madison
was one; and on the 27th of May 1783, the following resolution was reported and adopted.
"Resolved, that it be recommended to the several states, to
secure to the authors or publishers of any new books not hiherto printed, being citizens of the United States, and to their
executors, administrators and assigns, the copyrigt of such
books for a certain time, not less than fourteen years from the
first publication ; and to secure to the said authors, if they shall
survive the term first mentioned, and to their executors, administrators and assigns, the copyright of such books'for another
term or time, not less than fourteen years; such copy or exclu.
sive right of printing, publishing and vending the same, to be
secured to the original authors or publishers, their executors,
administrators and assigns, by such laws and such restrictions,
as to the several states may seem proper."
This right is here treated and dealt with as property already
existing; and not as creating any thing which had previously no
being. It is spoken of as something tangible, that might pass
to -executors and administrators, and transferable by assign.
ment. And the recommendation to the states was, to pass lawp
to Itsecure such right.
must be presumed, that congress understood
the light in
which this subject was viewed in the mother country. And
it is deserving of notice, that Mr Madison, one of the committee, afterwards wrote the number in the Federalist, where this
subject is-discussed; and where it is expressly asserted, that this
has been adjudged in England to be a right at common law.
And it is worthy of remark also, that no mention is here
made of any right in mechanical inventions: and although the
arts and sciences are connected in the sarne clause iti
the conVOL. vii,-4 L

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

stitution, and placed under the legislative power of congress, it
does not, by any means follow, that they were-considered as
standing on the same footing.
Several of the states had already passed laws on this subject;
and many others, in compliance with the recommendation of
congeess, did the same.
The state of Massachusetts, as early- as March 1783, passed
a,law, entitled, "an act for the purpose of securing to authors,
the exclusive right and benefit of publishing their literary productions for twenty-one years." The preamble to this act
shows, in a strong and striking manner, the views entertained
at that day in this enlightened state, of the value of this right.
"Whereas, the improvement of knowledge, the progress of
civilization, the public weal of the community, and the advancement of human happiness greatly depend on the efforts
-of learned and ingenious persons, in the various arts and sciences; as the principal encouragement such persons can have,
to make great and beneficial exertions of this nature, must
exist in the legal security of the fruits of their study and
industry, to themselves; and as such security is one of the
natural rights of all men, there being no property more peculiarly a man's own, than that which is produced by the labour of
his mind: therefore, to encourage learned and ingenious persons to write useful books, for the benefit of mankind, be it
enacted," &c. The act then proceeds to declare, that all books,
treatises and other literary works, &c. shall be the sole property of the author or authors, being subjects of the United
States 'of America, their heirs. and assigns, for the full and
complete term of twenty.one years from the date of theirfirst
publication. And certain penalties are affixed to a violation of
the right, with a proviso, that the act shall not be construed to
extend in favour, or for the benefit of any author, or subject of
any other of the United States, until the state of which such
author is a subject, shall have passed similar laws for securing
to authors the exclusive right and benefit of publishing their
literary productions. 1 Laws Mass. 94.
This act recognizes in the fullest and most
unqualified manner,--the natural right which an author has to the productions
and labour of his own mind. And it is worthy of notice, that
the act does not recognize as a natural right, or in any manner

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

provide for the protection of inechanical inventions; thereby
showing the distinction between mental and manual labour in
the view of that legislature, although it is. now attempted to
put them on the same footing.
The state of Connecticut had, previously, in the same year
(January 1783), passed an act for the encouragement of literature and genius, containing the following Preamble: "whereas
it is perfectly agreeable to the principles of natural justice and
equity, that every-author should be secured in receiving the
profits that may arise from the sale of his works ; and such
security may encourage men of learning and genius to publish
their writings, which may do honour to their country, and service to mankind." Certain provisions are then made for the
security of such right, which it is unnecessary here to be particularly noticed.
There is a like proviso as in*Ithe Massachusetts act: that
the benefit of the law is not to extend to authors, inhabitants
of, or residing in other states, until such states have passed similar laws. Statutes of Conn. 474. This law is also confined
to literary productions, and in no manner extending to mechanical labours.
In the colony of New York, in the year 1786, a law " to
promote literatui:e" was passed, reciting, "whereas, it is agree,
able to the principles of natural equity and justice, that every
author should be secured in receiving'the profits that may arise
from the sale of his works ; and such security may encourage
persons of learning and genius to publish their writings, which
may do honour to their country, and service to mankind;" and
then making provision, for securing to authors the sole right of
printing, publishing and selling their works for fourteen years.
With a proviso to the fourth' section of the act, recognizing a
common law right ; but leaving it open and unaffected in cases
n6t coming within the act : viz., "provided, that nothing in
this act shall extend to, affect, prejudice or confirm the rights
'which any person may have to the printing or publishing of
any books or pamphlets at common law, in cases not mentioned
in this act."
The state of Virginia also, in the year 1785, passed a similar
law, for securing to authors of literary works, an exclusive properly therein, for a limited time. I Rev. Code 534. Like

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

laws for the same purpose were passed by other states, which
are not necessary here to be noticed; enough having been- referred to, to show the light in which literary property was
viewed in this country; and that such laws were passed, with
a view to protect and secure a pre-existing right, founded on
the eternal rules and principles of natural right and justice,
and recognized by the common law,
But under the existing governments of the United States,
before the adoption of the present constitution, adequate protection could not be given to authors throughout the United
States, by any general law. It depended on the legislatures
of the several states ; and this led to the provisions in the present constitution, giving .o congress power "to promote the
progress of science and the useful arts, by securing, for limited
times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right to their
respective writings and discoveries." Constit. art. 1, sect. 8.
It has been argued at the bar, that as the promotion of the
progress of science and the useful arts, is here United in the
same clause in the constitution, the rights of authors and inventors were considered as standing on the same footing ; but
this, I think, is a non sequitur. This article is to be construed
distributively, and must have been so understood ; for when
congress carne to execute this power by legislation,, the subjects are kept distinct, and very differen-t provisions are made
respecting them. All the laws relative to inventions, purport
to be acts to promote the progress of the useful arts. They do
not use any language which implies or presupposes any existing
prior right to be secured; but clearly imply that the whole exelusive right is created by the law, and ends with the expiration of the patent. The first law, passed in the year 1790,
1 Story's Ed. 80, requires that the specification shall be so particular, as not only to distinguish the invention or discovery
from other things before known and used, but. also to enable a
workman, or other person, skilled in the art or manufacture,
to make, construct, or use the same, to the end that the public
may have the full benefit thereof, after the expiration of the patent
term. This is the consideration demanded by the public, for
the protection during the time mentioned in the patent ; and
the books furni.sh no case, that I am aware of, where an ac-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
rWheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

tion has been attempted to be sustained upon any supposed
common law right of the inventor.,
But the case is -quite -different with respect to copyrights.
All the laws on this subject purport to be made for securing to
authors and proprietors such copyright. They presuppose
the existence of a right, which is to be secured, and not a
right originally created by the act. The security provided by
the act is for a limited time. But there is no intimation that
at the expiration of that time. the copy becomes conmion, as in
the case of an invention. The right, at the expiration of te
time limited in the acts of congress, is left to the common law
protection, without the additional security thrown around it
by the statutes; and stands upon the same footing as it did
before the statutes were passed. The protection for a limited
time by the aid of penalties, against the violators of the right,
proceeds upon the ground that the author, within that time,
can so multiply his work, and reap such profits therefrom,. as
to enable him to rest upon his common law right, without the
extraordinary aid of penal laws.
In the Federalist, No. 43, written by Mr Madison, who reported the resolution referred to, in the old congress, this clause
in the constitution is under consideration, and the writer observes: that t1he utility of this power will scarcely be questioned,
The copyright of authors has been solemnly adjudged in Great'
Britain, to be a right at common law. The right to useful inven-tions seems, with equal reason, to belong to the inventors.
The public good fully coincides, in both cases, with the claims
bf individuals. The states cannot separately make effectual
provision for 6i'her of the cases; and most of them have anticipated the decision of this point, by laws passed at the instance
of congress.
Although it is here said, that the right to useful inventions
seems with equal reason to belong to the inventors, as the
copyright to authors: yet it is not pretended that the common law equally recognises them. But the contrary is necessarily implied, when it is expressly said that the copyright has
been adjudged to be a common law right, bt is silent as to
inventors' rights.
The common-law right of hauthorm is expressly recognised
by Mr Justice Story in his Commentaries. In noticing thio

SUPREME COURT.
[Whoaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

article in the constitution, he says, " this power did not exist
under the confederation, and its utility does not seem to have

been questioned. The copyright of authors in their works
had, before the revolution, been decided in Great Britain to be
a common law right, and it was regulated and limited under
statutes passed by parliament upon that subject." 3 Story's
Corn. 48. If these statutes do not affect the right in the case
now before the court, it remains and isto be viewed as a common law right.
The judge in the court below, who decided this case, seems
to place much reliance on what he considers a doubt, suggested by Chancellor Kent, as to the existence of the common
law light. Let us see what he does say. " It was," says he,
"for some time the prevailing and better opinion in England,
that authors had an exclusive copyright at common law, as
permanent as the property of an estate ; and that the statute of
Anne, protecting" by penaltir- that right for fourteen years,
was only an additional sanction, and made in affirmance of
the common law. This point came at last to be questioned,
and it became the subject of a very serious litigation in the
court of king's bench. It was decided in 'Miller v. Taylor,
1769, that every author had a common law right in perpetuity,
independent of statute, to the exclusive printing and publishing his original compositions. The court was not unanimous,
and the subsequent decision of the house of lords, in Donaldson v. Beckett, in February 1774, settled this very litigated
question against the opinion of the king's bench, by establishing, that the common law right of action; if any existed, could
not be exercised beyond the time limited by the statute of
Anne, 2 Coin. 375, second ed. It is here fully admitted, that
by the decision in Miller v. Taylor, every author had a common law right in perpetuity, to the publishing of his original
composition. And, if it was intended to intimate, that the
subsequent decision, in Donaldson v. Beckett, overruled this
decision, as to the common law right ; I apprehend, this must
be a mistake, according to the report of the case in 4 Burr.
I understand the decision then was, by ten of the judges,
that- at common law an audor had the sole right offirst printing and publishing his work, and by seven judges to four, that
such right continued after his first publication. It is true, it

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v; Peters and Grigg.]

was decided by six to five of the judges, that the common law
right of action could not be exercised beyond the time limited
by the statute of Anne. But with the construction of this
statute, we have no concern, if it was not in force in Pennsylvania. The settlement of the common law right is the material point, and that is admitted, by Chancellor Kent, to have
been decided in favour of the author. There is certainly considerable obscurity in the report of this case, as to how far it
has modified the common law remedy: this arises probably
from the manner in which the questions were propounded by
the house of lords to the judges.
I do not perceive how it becomes necessary in this case to
decide the.question, whether we have here any code of.laws,
known and regarded as the common law of the United States.
This case presents a question respecting the right of property,
and ih such cases the state laws form the rules of decision in
the courts 6f the United States ; and the case now before the
court must be governed by the law of copyright in the state of
Pennsylvania. The complainants, though citizens of New
York, are entitled to the benefit of those laws for the protection of their property ; and have a right to prosecute their suit
in the courts of the United States.
Itf by the common law of England, an author has the copyright in his literary compositions, it becomes necessary to
inquire whether that law is in force in the state of Pennsyl-.
vania.
It was very properly admitted by the court below, on the
trial of this cause, that when the American colonies were first
settled by our ancestors, it was held as well by the settlers, as
by the judges and lawyers of England, that they brought
with them, as a birthright and inheritance, so much. of the
common law as was applicable to their local situation and
change of circumstances; and that each colony judged for
itself, what. parts of the common law were applicable to its
new condition. Mr Justice Story recognises the same principle in his Commentaries, vol. 1, 137 to 140. Englishmen,
says he, removing to another country, must be deeme4, to
-arry with them- those-ights and privileges which belong to
them in their native country ; and that the plantations formed
in this country were to be deemed a part of the ancient domin.

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.j

ions, and the subjects inhabiting them to belong to a common
country, and to retain their former rights and privileges. That
the universal principle has been (and the practice has conformed to it), that the common law is our birthright and
inheritance, and that our ancestors brought hither with them,
upon their immigration, all of it which was applicable to their
situation. The whole structure of our present jurisprudence
stands -apon the original foundation of the common law. The
old congress, in the year 1774, unanimously resolved, that the
*respective colonies are entitled to the common law of England.
1 Story's Com. 140, and note.
The colony of Pennsylvania was settled about the year
1682; at which periol, and down to the time of the case of
Miller v. Taylor, 1769, the whole course of the British government, as well in parliament, as in the star chamber, and court
of chancery, proceeded, in relation to the regulation of copyrights, upon the ground of an existing common law right in
authors : and which was so universally acknowledged, that it
was not contested in a court of justice until that case ; and then
solemnly, and upon the most mature deliberation, decided to
be a common law right, notwithstanding the statute of Anne
passed in the year 1710. And the subsequent decision of
Donaldson v. Beckett, turned entirely upon the construction of
that act, which it was supposed limited the remedy to the time
prescribed in the act for the protection of the copyright. So
that at the time of the settlement of Pennsylvania, and for
nearly a century thereafter, the common law right with all
the comn on law remedies attached to it, was the received and
acknowledged doctrine in England. And if the common law
was brought into Pennsylvania by the first settlers, the law of
copyright formed a part of it, and was in force there, and has
so continued ever since, not having been abolished or modified
by any legislature in that state, But the exfstence of the common law in Pertnsylvania, is not left to inference upon the
general principles applicable to emigrants. before alluded to;
there is positive legislation on the subject.
We find, as early as the year 1718, a law in that colony
with a recital, ".whereas king Charles II., by his royal charter
t' William Penn, for erecting this country into a province.
did declare it to be his will and pleasure, that the laws.for re-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

gulating and governing of property, within the said province,
as well for the descent and enjoyment of lands, as for the enjoyment and succession of goods and chattels, and likewise as
to felonies, should be and continue the same as they should
be, for the time being, by the general course of the law in the
kingdon of England, until the said laws shall be altered by
the said William Penn, his heirs and assigns, and by the free.
men of the said province, their delegates or deputies, or the
greater part of them : and whereas it is a settled point, that as
the common law is the birthright of all English subjects, so it
ought to be their rule in the British dominions. But acts of
parliament have been adjudged not to extend to these plantations, unless they are particularly named as such : now, therefore.," &c.: and certain statutes relating to crimes are adopted;
and this question came under the consideration of the supreme
court of that state, in the case of Morris's Lessee v. Van Dorin,
1 DalU. 64, in the year 1782, and Chief Justice M'Kean, in
pronouncing the judgment of the court, says: this state has
had her government for above a hundred years, and it is the
opinion of the court, that the common law of England has
always been in force in Pennsylvania. That all statutes
made in Great Britain before the settlement of Pennsylvania,
have no force here, unless they are convenient, and adapted to
the circumstances of the country; and that all statutes made
since the settlement of Pennsylvania, have no force here, unless
the colonies are particularly named; and he adds, that the
spirit of the act of 1718 supports this opinion.
With respect to English statutes which have been considered
in. force in Pennsylvania, we have the most satisfactory evidence in the report of the judges of the supreme court of that
state, made under'an act of the legislatre passed April 7th,
1807, 3 Binn. 395, by which the judges were required to examine, and report,, which of the English statutes are in force in
that commonwealth ; and upon this subject the report states:
"with, respect to English statutes, enacted since the settlement
of Pennsylvania, it has been assumed, as a principle, that they
do not extend here, unless they have been recognized by our
acts of assembly, or adopted by long continued. practice in
courts df jtIstice. Of the latter description there are very few;
and those, it issupposed, were introduiced from a sense of their
VOL. Vill.-4 M

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.)

evident, utility. As English statutes, they had no obligatory
force; but, from long practice, they may be considered as incor-,
porated with the law of our country."
From this review of the law, I think I have shown, that, by
the common law of England, down, at least, to the decision in
the case of Donaldson v. Beckett, an author was considered as
having an exclusive right, in perpetuity, to his literary compositions. That this right, as a branch of the common law, was
brought into Pennsylvania with the first settlers, as early as
the year 1682. That whatever effect and operation the statute of Anne may have been deemed to have. had upon the
common law in England, that statute never having been in
force in Pennsylvania., the common law right remains unaffected by it. And with this view of the law, and the rights of
an author, I proceed to consider the acts of congress which
have been passed on this subject.
Observing, in the first place, that we are bound to presume
that congress understood the nature and character of this
claim of authors to the enjoyment of the fruits of their literary
labours, and the ground upon which it rested. This is useful
and necessary, to conduct us to a right understanding of their
legislation. A knowledge of the mischief is necessary, to a
just and correct view of the remedy intended to be applied.
But the knowledge of congress on this subject is not left
open to presumption. The question, as to its being an exclusive and perpetual right, was brought directly to the view of
congress.
Three acts have been passed on this subject; ahd being not
only in pari materia, but connected with eaoh other by their
very titles and objects, are to be construed together, and explained by each other.
The last act on the subject was passed in the year 1831, and
is entitled "an act to amend the several acts respecting copyrights, approved February 3d, 1831." And the report of tL.
judiciary committee, to whom the subject was referred, shows
in what point of light the subject was presented to congress.
Your committee, says the report, believe that the just claims
of authors, require from our legislation a protection, not less
than what is proposed in the bill reported. From the first
principles of proprietorship in property, an author has an exclusive

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

and perpetualright, in preference to any other, to the fruits of
his labour. Though the nature of literary property is peculiar,
it is not the less real and valuable. If labour and effort in producing what before was not possessed or known will give title,
then the literary man has title, perfect and absolute, and should
have his reward.
The object of the law, and to which the attention of congress
was specially drawn, was the protection of property; claimed and
admitted to be exclusive and perpetual in the author.
It may be useful, preliminarily, to notice a few of the settled
rules by which statutes are to be construed.
In construing statutes, three points are to be regarded; the old
law, the mischief, and the remedy; and the construction should
be such, if possible, to'suppress the mischief, and advance the
remedy. 1 Bl. Com. 87 ; Bac. Ab. Stat. 1, pl. 31, 32.
An affirmative statute does not abrogate the common law.
If a thing iq at common law, a statute cannot restrain it,
unless it be in negative words. Plowd. 113 ; 2 Kent's Com.
462; 2 Mason 451; 1 Inst. 111, 115; 10 Mod. 118. Bac.
Abr. Stat. 9.
Where a statute gives a remedy, where there was one by the
common law, and does not imply a negative of the common
law remedy, there will be two concurrent remedies. In such
case, the statute remedy is accumulative. 2 Bac. 803, 805;
2 Inst. 200 ; Com. Dig. Action. upon Statute 6.
Considering the common law right of the author established,
and with these rules of construing statutes kept in view, I proceed to the consideration of the acts of congress.
The first law was passed in the year 1790 (1 vol. Story's ed.
of Laws of United States 94), and is entitled, "an act for the
encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps,
charts and books, to the authors and proprietors of. such copies,
during the times therein mentioned."
The first section declares, that the author of any book or
books already printed, being a. citizen of the United States, and
who hath not transferred the copyright to any other person, and
any other person, being a citizen of the United States, &c. who
hath purchased, or legally acquired the copyright of such book,
in order toi print, reprint, publish or vend the same, shall have
the sole right and liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing and

SUPREME, COURT.

.rWheaton

and Donaidson v. Peters and Grigg.]

vending the same, for fourteen years from the recording the title
thereof in the clerk's office, as hereinafter directed. The like,
provision is made, with respect to books or manuscripts not
printed, or thereafter composed. The title, and this section of
the act, obviously consider and treat this copyright as property ;
something that is capable of being transferred ; and the right
of the assignee is protected equally with that of the author ;
and the object of the act, and all its provisions purport to be for
securing the right. Protection is the avowed and real purpose
for which it is passed. There is nothing here admitting the
construction, that-a new right is created. The provision in no
way or manner deals with it as such. It in no manner limits
or withdraws from the right, any, protection it before had. It
is a forced and unreasonable interpretation, and in violation of
all the well settled rules of constiuction, to consider it as restricting, limiting or tdbolishing any pre-existing right. Statutes are not presumed to make any alteration in the common
law, further or otherwise, than the act expressly declares.
And, therefore, when the act is general, the law presumes it
did not intend to make any alteration ; for if such was the
intention, the legislature would have so expressed it, 11 Mod.
148 ; 19 Vin. 512, Stat. E. 6, pl. 12. And hence the rule is
laid down in Plowden, if a thing is at common law, a statute
cannot restrain it, unless it be in negative words. , It is in every
sense an affirmative statute, and does not abrogate the common
law.
The cumulative security or protection given by the statute,
attaches from the recording of the title of the oook in the clerk's
office of the district court where the author orproprietor shall reside.
If the statute should be considered as creating a new right,
that right vests upon recording the title. This is the only prerequisite, or condition precedent, to the vesting the right.
Whatever it is that is given by the statute, and the other
requirements in the third and fourth sections, of publishing in
the newspaper within two months from the date of the recprd,
and delivering a copy of the book to the secretary of state
within six months fr'om the, publication; cannot be construedas prerequisites or conditions precedent to the vesting. These
provisions cannot be considered in any other light than as
directory. In no other view can these sections of the law be

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

made consistent with the provisions of the first section. The
benefit of the act, so far as respects the exclusive right, takes
effect from the time of recording the title in the clerk's office :
but the publication in the newspaper may be made at any
time within two months, and the copy delivered to the secretary of state within six.months. What would be the situation
of the author if his copyright should be violated before the
expiration of the time allowed him for these purposes ? Would
he have no remedy? The second section declares in terms,
that if any person, from and after the' recordhg the title, shall,
without the consent of the author or proprietor, print or reprint,
&c., he thereby incurs the penalties given by the act. Both
the right and the remedy therefore given-by the act, attach on
the recording of the title. And this construction is not at all
affected by any thing contained in the third section of the act;
which declares that no person shall be entitled to the benefit
of this act, unless he shall have deposited a printed copy of the
title in the clerk's office. This is in perfect harmony with the
first and second sections ; and although the requirement to
publish a copy of the record in the newspaper is in the same
section, it is in a separate and distinct clause, and no niore
required to be considered a prerequisite, than if it was in a distinct section: and so it was considered by Mr Justice Washington in Ewer v. Coxe, 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 490; and he also
in that case considered the requirement in tie fourth section
to deliver a copy to the secretary of state as directory, and not
as a condition: and indeed the result of his opinion was, that
if the authores copyright depended upon the act of 1790, it
would be complete by a deposite' of a copy of the title in the
clerk's office. But that the act of 1802 not only added another
requisite, viz. causing a copy of the record to be inserted at
full length in the title page, but made the publication in the
newspaper, and the delivery of a copy of the book to the secretary of state, prerequisites, although not made so by the act of
1790. Me"Justice Washington is fully supported in his construction of the act of 1790 by the case of Nichols v. Ruggles,
3 Day 145, decided in the supreme court of errors of the'state
of Connecticut, where it is held, that the provisions of the
statute, which require the author to publish the title of his
bookin a newspaper, and to deliver a copy of the wovrk to the

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

secretary of state, are merely directory, and constitute no part
of the essential requisites for securing the copyright. This
case was decided in the year 1808, and I do not find any reference to the act of 1802. This can only be accounted for upon
the supposition hat, in the opinion of the counsel and court,
this act did not at all affect the construction of the act of
1790; for had it been supposed that the act of 1802 made the
publication in a newspaper, and a delivery of a copy of the
work to the secretary of state, prerequisites to the vesting of
the copyright, it would necessarily have led to a different result
on the motion for a new trial. Judge Hopkinson, who tried
the cause now before the court, thinks the act of 1790 will not
admit of the construction given to it by Judge Washington;
but that under that act the publication in a newspaper, and
delivery of a copy of the work to the secretary of state, are prerequisites to the establishment of the right; and :such I understand to be the opinion of a majority of this court, by which
the construction of the act of 1790 by Judge Washington is
overruled. I have already attempted to show that this construction of the act of 1790 cannot be sustained,; nor do I
think that the act of 1802 will aid that construction of the act
of 1790, and in this I understand my brother M'Lean concurs:
so that upon. this question, as to the effect of the act of 1802
upon the act of 1790, the court is equally divided, and the
decision of the cause rests upon the act of 1790. A brief
notice, however, of the act of 1802, 2 Story's, Ed. Laws U. S.
866, may not be amiss.
It purports so far as it relates to the present question, to be a
supplement to the act of 1790, and declares that the author or
proprietor of-a book, before he shall be entitled to the benefit of
'that act, shall, in addition to the requisites enjoined in the
third and fourth section of said act, give information, by causing a, copy of the record, required to be published in a newspaper, to be inserted at full length in the title page or in the
page immediately following the title page of the book. It is
to be observed, that this purports to be, a supplementary act,
the office of which is only to add something,to the original act,
but not to alter or change the provisions .whichit already contains. It leaves the original act precisely as it was, and only
superadds to its provisions the matter of thb supplement; and

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

both, when taken together, will receive the same construction
as if originally incorporated in the same act. This is the
natural and rational view of the matter. Suppose this new
requisite had been in the original act, how would it stand ? If
it was in a separate and distinct section, it would run thus: that
the author, before he shall be entitled to the benefit of this act,
shall insert at full length, in the title page of the book, a.copy
of the record of the title. This could not change the construc-tion of the act as tp the publication in the newspaper, or delivery of a copy of the book to the secretary of state. Nor
could it have any such effect, if it followed immediately after
the prerequivite of depositing a printed copy of the title of the
book in the clerk's office; and this would have been the natural
place for the provision, if it had been inserted in the original
act.
Judge Washington, in Ewer v. Coxe, says that the supplemental act declares that the person seeking to obtain this right
shall perform this new requisition, in addition to those prescribed in the third and fourth sections of the act of 1790, and
that he must porform the -whole before he shall be entitled to the
benefit of the act. I find no such declaration in the act. The
second section; which relates to prints, does contain -this declaration, but it has no application to books.
If the actof 1802 is intended as a legislative construction of
the act of 1790, and is clearly erroneous, it- cannot be binding
upon the court.
The act of 1831, being in pari materia, may be taken into
consideration -in construing the previous acts which it purports
to amend; and we find in this act only two prerequisites imposed upon an author, to entitle him to the benefit of the act,
viz. to deposit a printed copy of the title of the book in the
clerk's office of the district court of the district wherein the
author or proprietor shall reside, and to give information of the
copyright being secured, by inserting on the title page, oz the
page immediately following,, the -entry therein directed, viz.
Fentered'according. to the act of congress," &c. And these
being prerequisites under the former laws, it is fairly to be conoluded that. they were the only prerequisites, and that the
other requirements are merely directory; and if .so, the complainants in the court below, have shown all, that the acts of

SUPREME COURT.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

congress require to vest the copyright. The title has been
recorded in the clerk's office, and a copy of the record inserted
in the title page of the book.
But if the complainants in the court below have not made
out a complete right under the acts of congress, there is no
ground upon which the common law remedy can be taken
from them. If there be a common law right, there certainly
must be a common law remedy. The statute contains nothing
in terms, having any reference to the common law right ; and
if such right is considered abrogated, limited or modified by
the acts of congress, it must be by implication; and to so construe these acts, is in violation of the established rules of construction, that where a statute gives a remedy in the affirmative without a negative expressed or implied, for a matter
whilch was actionable at common law, the party may sue at
common law, as well as upon the statute. 1 Chitty's P1. 144.
This is a well settled principle, and fully recognized and adopted in tile case of Almy v. Harris, 5 Johns. Rep. 175.
Whatever effect the statute of Anne may have had in England, as to limiting or abridging the common law right there ;
no such effect, upon any sound rules of interpretation, can grow.
out of our acts of congress. There is -a wide difference, in the
phraseology of the laws. The statute of Anne contains negative words. It declares that the author shall have the sole right
and liberty of printing, &c. for the time contained in the statute, and no longer ; and these are the words upon which the
advocates for the limitation, of the common law right mainly
rest: and it was, for a long time, considered by the ablest judges
in England, that even these strong words did not limit or
abridge the common law right ; and the question, at this day,
is not considered free from doubt.
This act, and the construction which it had received in England, were well known and understood when the act of congress was passed, and no such limitation is inserted or intended,
or any matter at all repugnant to the continuance of the common law right, in its full extent. These laws proceed on the
ground that the common law remedy was insufficient to protect
the right, and provide additional security, by means of penalties, for the violation of it. Congress having before them the
statute of Anne, and apprized of the doubt entertained in

JAI UARY TERM 1834.
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

England as to its effect upon the common law right, if it had
been intended to limit or abridge that right, some plain and
explicit provision to that effect would doubtless have, been
made ; and not having been made, is, to my mind, satisfactory
evidence that no such effect was intended.
If the present action was to recover the penalties given by
the'statute, it might be incumbent on the appellants to show
that all the requirements in the acts of congress had been complied with. This would be resorting to the new statutory
remedy, and the party must bring himself within the statute,
in order 'toentitle him to that remedy. But admitting that the
right depends upon the statute,, and is limited to the time
therein prescribed, the remedy by injunction continues during
that time. This is admitted by Mr Justice Yeates, in Miller
v. Taylor. The author, says he, has certainly a property in
the copy of his book, during the term the statute has allowed;
and whilst that term exists, it is like a lease, a grant or any
other common law right; and will equally 'etitle him to all
common law remedies for the enjoyment, of that right. He
may, I should think, file an injunction bill to stop the printing. But I may say with more positiveness, he might bring
an action to recover satisfactioi for the injury done, contrary to
law, tinder the statute. And the same doctrine is laid down
by the whole court, in Beckford v. Wood, 7 Term Rep. 616.
Lord Kenyon says: the statute vests the right in atithors for
certain periods; and within those periods, the act says, the
author shall have the sole right and liberty of printing, &c. ;
and the statttte having vested the right in the author, the
common law giv' s the remedy, by action on the case for a
violation of it; and that the act, by creatink the penalties,
meant to give an accumulative remedy.
The language in the statute of Anne, which is considered
as vesting the right, is the same as in the act of congress. In
the former, it is considered as necessarily implied in the-declaration that the author shall have the sole right during sach
time, &c. And in the act of congress, there is the same
declaration, that the author shall have the sole right of printing, &c. from the time of recording the title in the clerk's.
office. The right being thus vested at the time, draws after
it the common law remedy. And there is rio more reason for
VOL. vi.-4
N

SUPREME COURT
[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

contending, that the remedy given by the statute, supersedes
the common law remedy under the act of congress,' than
under the statute of Anne. The statute remedy is through
the means of penalties in both cases.
The term for which the copyright is secured in the case
now before the court has not expired ; and according to the
admitted and settled doctrine in England, under the statute
of Anne, the common law remedy exists.during that period.
Upon the whole, in whatever light this case is viewed,
whether as a common law right or depending on the act of
congress, I think the appellants are entitled to the remedy
sought by the bill; and that the decree of the court below
ought to be reversed, the injunction made perpetual, and an
account taken according to the prayer in the bill, without.
directing an issue to try any matter of fact, touching the right.
Mr Justice
court.

BALDWIN

also dissented from the opinion of the

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel ; on
consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by
this court, that the judgment and decree of the said circuit
court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the
said circuit court, with directions to that court, to order an
issue of facts to be examined and tried by a jury, at the bar of
said court, upon this point, whether the said Wheaton, as
author, or any other person as proprietor, had complied with
the requisites prescribed by the third and fourth sections of the
said act of congress, passed the 31st day of May 1790, in
regard to the volumes of Wheaton's Reports, in the said bill.
mentioned, or in regard to one or more ofthem, in the following particulars, viz. whether the said Wheaton or proprietor
did, within two months from the date of the recording thereof
in the clerk's office of the district court, cause a copy of the
said record to be published in one or more of the newspapers
printed in the resident states, for four weeks ; and whether the

JANUARY TERM 1384.

699

[Wheaton and Donaldson v. Peters and Grigg.]

said Wheaton or the proprietor, after the publishing thereof,
did deliver or cause to be delivered to the secretary of state of
the United States, a copy of the same, to be preserved in his
office, according to the provisions of the said third and fourth
sections of the said act, and that such further proceedings be
had therein, as to law and justice may appertain, and in conformity to the opinion of this court.

