SUPREME COURT.

JAMES BROWN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. RICHARD R.

KEENE.

A petition, filed in the district court of Louisiana, averred, that the plaintiff,
Richard Raynal Keenoe, is a citizen .of the state of Maryland, and that
James Brown, the defendant, is a resident of the state of Louisiana, holding his fixed and permanent domicil in the parish of St Charles.
'The decisions of this court require, that the averment of jurisdiction shall
be positivethat the declaration shall state expressly the fact on which jurisdiction depends. It is not sufficient that jurisdiction may be inferred, argumentatively, from its averments.
A citizen of the United States may become a citizen of that state in which he
has a fixed and permanent domicil ; but the petition does not aver that the
plaintiff is a citizen of the United States.
The constitution extends the judicial power to "cohtroversies between citizens of different states ;" and the judicial act gives jurisdiction, " in suits
between a citizen of the state where the suit is brought, and a citizen of
another state."
The cases of Bingham v. Cabot et al., 3 Dall. 382, 1 Cond. Rep. 170; Abercrombie v. Dupuis, 1 Cranch 343, 1 Cond. Rep. 327 ; Wood v. Wagnon, 2
Cranch 9, 1 Cond. Rep. 335; Capron v. Vanorden, 2 Cranch 126, 1 Cond.
Rep. 370; cited.

IN error to the district court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana.
In the district court, the dfendant in error, Richard R.
Keene, filed a petition in which he stated himself to be a citizen of the state of Maryland, against James Brown, a citizen
or resident of the state of Louisiana, holding his fixed and perinanent domicil in the parish of St Charles in the district
aforesaid, claiming damages for an alleged non performance
of a cotitract relating to the conveyance of a lot of ground,
part of the batture at New Orleans.
To this petition Mr Br'own filed an answer by his attorney,
Isaac T. Preston, Esq. ; in which he objects to thejurisdiction of
the district court, on the ground that the plaintif as well as
the respondent, is a citizen of the state of Louisiana, The
answer then proceeds to deny all the material allegations in
the petition.
The district court made a decree in favour of the petitioner;
from which the ro|poldcn( Jproseotuted a writ of error to this
court.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Brown v. Keene.]

The case wag argued on the question of jurisdiction, and
on the irierits, by Mr Clay, for the piaintlff in .error ; and, by
Mr Brent, for the defendant.
As no part was decreed but that which was presented on the
question of jurisdiction, the arguments of the counsel on those
other points are omitted.
Mr Clay, upon the question of jurisdiction, argued, that it
did not exist on account of the character of4iie parties. The
petition states Keene to be a citizen of Maryland, and James
Brown to be a citizen or resident of Louisiana. The fact
ought not to have been stated in the alternative. The constitution limits the jurisdiction, in this respect, to a controversy
between citizens of different states; and that must be shown.
Nothing can supply the want of that relative attitude of the
litigants. Suppose Keene had simply alleged himself to be a
resident of the state of Maryland, and had brought his -suit
against Brown, a resident of Louisiana; the jurisdictio4 could
not have been maintained, because residence and citizenship
are not synonymous. If he had stated himself a citizen or
resident of Maryland, and brought the suit agaitste Brown as
a citizen or resident of Louisiana; the jurisdiction could not be
sustained. It must appear, positively, to the court that the parties stand to each other in the relation required by the constitution.
Nor is this defect cured by Brown's answer to the pe.ition.
It is true, he there states himself to be a citizen 6f Louisiana;
but he also s~ateq Keene to be a citizen of Louisiana. 'The
whole of the answer, in this particular, is to be taken as true,
or no part of it can be relied on ; and, if received as true, the
court had no jurisdiction, because both parties were citizens of
the same state.
If residence and citizenship mean the same thing, there is
abundant proof on the record that Keene is a citizen of Louisiana. *Thedeed from him to the Browns, dated on the 21st
of August, styles him "of the city of New O'leans." That'
deed is a part of his petition. HIe is again so styled in a deed
to the Browns, of the 28th Septembr 1807. And in his petition,,iled near twenty-three years after; in March 1830, he
VOL. VI.-P

SUPREME COURT.
[Brown v. Keene.]

describes himself "Richard Raynal Keene, a resident of the
city of New Orleans."

The rule made in the inferior Court requiling an bath to the
plea'to the jurisdiction, is beyond the authority of" such a
court. Could a •prosecution for perjury be sustained on such
an oath, if falsely made ? Nor does the rule of court apply to
such a case as this. The defect of jurisdiction is apparent on
the record. Mr Brown is stated to be a citizen or .resident of
Louisiana: residence is not citizenship. The allegation is in
the alternative, which admits the difference ; and there is not,
therefore, a distinct allegation of citizenship.
Mr Brent, in reply, contended, that, in his answer, Mr Brown
admitted that he is a 6itizen of Louisiana. The answer
says, "1that the plaintiff, as well its the respondent, is a citizen
of Louisiana." This is sufficient to maintain the jurisdiction;
and the plaintiff in error cannot contradict this admission, and,
by an objection only, technically'take the case from the power
of this court over it. The objedtion to the jurisdiction should
have been sustained by the affidavit of the plaintiff in error.
This is required by a rule made in 1830, by the district court
of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana; and
no such affidavit was made. It is said, that this rule of court
does not operate, because the judiciary act does not require an
affidavit. To this it is answered, that no rules of practice are
piescribed by the act of congress, and courts have full authority
to establish such as they consider proper and necessary. This
iule was made to prevent a dilatory plea, and was such as the
court had a full right to make. As to the objection, that the
allegation is in the alternative, this does not affect its sufficiency. Connected with the statement, that the plaintiff in
error was domiciliated in the parish of St Charles, enough is
shown to sustain the proceedings.
But if these are not sufficient, the defendant in the district
coui't, by appearing to and answering the petition, has waiveu
the objection.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Brown v. Keone.]

This appeal is from adecree of the court of the United States
for the district of Louisiana. The first error assigned in the
proceedings is, that the petition, whicl, in the practice'of
Louisiana, is substituted for a declaration, does not show, with
sufficient certainty, that the parties were within the jurisdiction
of the court. If this objection be well founded, it is undoubtedly fatal.
'The petition avers, that the plaintiff, Richard Raynal Keene,
is a citizen of the state of Maryland; and that James Brown,
the defendant, is a citizen or resident of the state of Louisiana,
holding his fixed and permanent doinicil in the parish of St
Charles. the petition, then, does not aver positively,'that the
defendant is a citizen of the state of Louisiana, but in the
alternative, that he is a chizen or a resident. Consistently
with this averment, he may be either.'
The additional words of description, ",.holding his fixed and
permanent domicil in the paristi of St Charles," do not aid this
defective description. A citizen of the United States may become a citizen of that state in which he has a fixed and permanent domicil; but the petition does not aver that the plaintiff
is a citizen of the United States. The question is, whether
the jurisdiction of the court is sufficiently shown by these
averments.
The constitution extendq the judicial power to "controversies between citizens of different states;" and the judicial act
gives jurisdiction, "in suits between a citizen of the state where
the suit is brought, and a citizen of another state."
The decisions of this court require, that the averment of
jurisdiction shalJ be positive, that the declaration shall state
expressly the fact on which ju'isdiction depends. It is not
sufficient that jurisdiction may be inferred argumentatively
from its averments.
In Bingham v. Cabot et al., 3 Dall. 382, 1 Cond. Rep.
170, the court held clearly, that it was iecessary to set forth
the citizenship (or alienage, when a foreigner was concerned)
of the respective parties, in order to bring the case within the
jurisdiction of the court, and that the. record was, in that respect, defective.
* In Abercrombie v. Dupuis aind another, 1 Cranch 343, the
Vlaintiffs belov aver, "that they do severally reside without

SUPREME COURT.
[Brown v. Keene.]

the limits of the district of Georgia, to wit, in the state of Kentucky." The defendant is called " Charles Abercrombie, of
the district of Georgia, aforesaid." The judgment in favour
of .the plaintiff below, was reversed on the authority of the
case of Bingham v. Cabot.
In Wood v. Wagnon, 2 C ranch 9, the judgment in favour of
the plain tiff below was reversed, because his petition did not show
the jurisdiction of the court. It stated the plaintiff to be a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania, and James Wood, the defendant, to be "of Georgia, aforesaid."
Capron v. Vanorden, 2 Cranch 126, was reversed, because
the declaration did not state the citizenship or alienage of the
plaintiff in the circuit court.
The same principle has been constantly recognized in this
court.
The answer of James Brown asserts, that boti plaintiff and
defendant are citizens of the state of Louisiana.
Without indicating any opinion on the question, whether
any admission in the plea can cure an insufficient allegation of
jurisdiction in the declaration, we are all of opinion that this
answer does not cure the defect of the petition. If the averment of the answer may be looked into, the whole averment
must be taken together. It is, that both plaintiff and defendant are citizens of Louisiana.
The decree of the court for the district of Louisiana is to be
reversed, that court not having jurisdiction; and the appeal to
lie dismissed.
The cross appeal, Keene v. Brown, is to be dismissed, the
court h;aving no jurisdiction.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
rccord from the district court of the United States, for the
eastern district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel ; on
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the
said district court could not entertain jurisdiction of this cause,
and that, consequently, this court has not jurisdiction in this
cause, but for the purpose of reversing the judgment of the
said district court entertaining said jurisdiction: whereupon,
it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of

JANUARY TERM 1834.

117

[Brown v. Keene.]

the said district court be, -and the same is hereby reversed,
and that this writ of error be, and the same is hereby dismissed,
for the want of jurisdiction. All of which is hereby ordered
to be certified to the said district court, under the seal of this
court.

