4

SUPREME COURT.

OHN STRATTON, APPELLANT v. LEONARD JARVIS AND C. H.

H.

BROWN, APPELLEES.
libel was filed in the district 3ourt of Maryland, for a salvage service performed by the libellant, the master and owner of the sloop Liberty, and by
his crew, in saving certain goods and merchandizes on board of the brig
Spark, while aground on the bar at Thomas's Point in the Chesapeake
Bay. Tie goods were owned by a number of persons, in several and distinct rights ; and a general claim and answer was interposed in behalf of
all of them, by'Jarvis and Brown (the owners of a part of them) ; without
naming who, in particular, the owners were, or distinguishing their separate
proprietary interests.
This proceeding was doubtless irregular in both respects. Jarvis and Brown
had no authority merely as co-shippers to interpose, any claim for other
shippers with whom they had no privity of interest or consignment: and
several claims should have been interposed by the seve al owners, or by
other persons authorized to act for them in the premises; each intervening
in his own name for his proprietary interest, and specifying it. If any
owner should not appear to claim any particular parcel of the property, the
habit of courts of admiralty is, to retain such property, or its proceeds, after
deducting the salvage, until a claim is made, or a year and a day ha~e
elapsed from the time of the institution of the proceedings. And when
separate claims are interposed, although the libel is joint against the whole
property, each claim is treated as a distinct and independent proceeding, in
the nature of a several suit, upon which there may be a several independent
hearing, decree and appeal. This is very familiar in practice in prize causes
and seizures in rem for forfeitures; and is equally'applicable to all other
proceedings in rem, whenever there are distinct and independent claimants.
The district court decreed a salvage of one-fifth of the gross proceeds of the
sales of the goods and merchandizes, and directed the same to be sold
accordingly. The salvage thus decreed was afterwards ascertained, upon
the sales, to be, in the aggregate, two thousand seven hundred and twenty-'
eight dollars and thirty-eight cents; but no formal apportionment thereof
was made. - From this decree an appeal was interposed in behalf of all the
owners of the goods and merchandizes to the circuit court; but no appeal
was interposed by the libellant. The consequence is, that the decree of
the district court is conclusive upon him as to the aimount of salvage in his
favour.
ie cannot, in the appellate court, claim any thing beyond that
amount; since he has not, by any appeal on his part, controverted its
sufficiency.
Although no apportionment of the salvage among the various claimants wak
formally directed to be made by any interlocutory osder of the district court
an apportionment appears to have been in fact made under its authority
A schedule is found in the record containing the names of all the .owner
and claimants, the gross sales of thejr property, and the amount of salvag,
apportioned upon each of them respectively. By this.selhedule the highes

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Stratton v.'Jarvis and Brown.]
Oaivage chargeable on any distinct claimant is nine hundred and six dollars
and seventeen cents, and the lowest forty-seven dollars and sixty cents, tile
latter sum being below the amount for which an appeal by the act of 3d of
March 1803, ch. 93, is allowed from a decree of the district court in admiralty and maritime causes.
In the appeal here, as in that from the district court, the case of each claimant having a separate interest, must be treated as a separate appeal, pro
interesse suo, from the decree, so far as it regards that interest: and the
salvage chargeable on him constitutes the whole matter in dispute between
him and the libellants: with the fate of the other claims, however disposed
of, he has and can have nothing to do. It is true that the salvage service
was in one sense entire: but it certainly cannot be deemed entire for the
purpose of founding a right against all the claimants jointly, so as to make
them all jointly responsible for the whole salvage. On the contrary, each
claimant is responsible only for the salvage properly due, and chargeable
on the gross proceeds or sales of his own property, pro rats. It would
otherwise follow that the property of one claimant might be made chargeable with the payment of the whole salvage; which would be against the
clearest principles of law on this subject. The district and circuit courts
manifestly acted upon this view of the matter; and their decrees would be
utterly unintelligible upon any other. Their decrees, respectively, in giving a certain proportion of the gross sales must necessarily apportion that
amount pro rata upon the whole proceeds, according to the distincti nterests
of each claimant. This court has no jurisdiction to entertain the present
appeal in regard to any of the claimants, and the cause must for this reason
be dismissed. The district court, as a court of original jurisdiction., has
general jurisdiction of all causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;
without reference to the sum or value of the matter in controversy. But
the appellate jurisdiction of this court and of the circuit courts, depends
-upon the sum or value of the matter in dispute between the parties, having
independent interests.

AN appeal fromthe circuit court of the United States for the
district of Maryland.
In the district court of the United States for the district of
Maryland, a libel was filed by the appellant for salvage, against
several packages of merchandize of the invoice value of thirteen thousand six hundred and forty-one dollars and ninetyfive, cents, the property of fifteen consignees, alleged to have
been saved from the brig Spark in the Chesapeake Bay; the
vessel having been on a voyage from Neiv York to Baltimore,
an'd having struck on Thomas's Point in the bay, on the 1Ith
of Marci 1831.
The libellant was master of the sloop Liberty, a small vessel which took from the Spark the merchandize stated to have
been saxed; he having been enmploved for the purpose iii An-

SUPREME COURT.
[Stratton v. Jarvis and Brown.]

napolis, by the master of the Spark, who, after she was on
shore, went there to obtain vessels in which to discharge the
cargo.
The libel alleged that the contract under which the Liberty
was employed for a stipulated compensation, was rescinded by
the owners of the Spark, who had repaired to her from Baltimore after hearing of her misfortune; they declaring they
would not be responsible for the payment of the sum stipulated,
but that the' "abandoned the goods ;" and the claim for hire
having thus been converted into a case of salvage.
The answer of .the appellees, the owners of the merchandize, denied the claim of the libellant to salvage, and relied
upon the agreement for a stipulated compensation as fixed upon
by the captain of the Spark, the amount of which was offered
to be paid to the libellant, and was by him refused.
The answer also denied that the cargo of the Spark was in
danger of loss; and that services of a meritorious character,
upon which a claim for salvage would rest, had been performed 'by the libellant.
The district court allowed, as a salvage, twenty per cent;
which, on appeal by the appellees, the circuit court reduced to
five per cent, on the gross proceeds of the goods; from which
decree of the circuit court the libellant appealed.
In the circuit court the following agreement was entered
into
"List of owners.-Patterson & Duncan, J. B. Danforth,
Chamberlin & Caldwell, William B. Keys & Co., Baltzell &
Davidson, Mumnmey & Meredith, John Armstrong & Son,
William M. Ellicott & Co., Sacket & Shannon, Baltzell &
Dalrymple, Peabody, Riggs & Cb., Bancroft & Peck, Lawrence
& Anderson, S. & J. B. Ford, Jarvis & Brown."
" List of consignees.-Joseph Taylor & Son, John T. Barr,
B. & Davidson, M. & Meredith, C. F. Pochon &-Co., Ellicott
& Co., S. & Shannon, 13. & D., N. F. Willian, P. R. & Co.
B. & Peck, E., Eichelberger & -Co., Talbot Jones & Co.,
H. & W. Crawford, J. & B., Morrison and Egerton."
"It is agreed that separate appeals be filed in this case for
each of the owners, as specified in the foregoing list, and that
the cause be considered and treated as if such sepauate appeals
weie filed, and that none of the appellants shall have any pri-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Stratton v. Jarvis and Brown.]

vileges or advantages which would not appertain to them if
such appeal were a separate one.
"Signed by the proctors of the respondents and appellants.
"Nov. 18, 1831."
The salvage was apportioned among the owners of the property saved as follows:

Owners.

Consignees.

Joseph Taylor & Son
Same
Same
John T. Barr
Wm. B. Keys & Co.
B. & Davidson
Baltzell & Davidson
Mummey & Meredith
M.&M.
John Armstrong & Son C. F. Pochon & Co.
Win. M. Ellicott & Co. Win. M. E. & Co.
S. & S.
Sackett & Shannon
B. & D.
Baltzell & Dalrymple
P., R. & Co.
Peabody, Riggs & Co.
B. & P.
Bancroft & Peck
Lawrence & Anderson 'Erskine, Eichelberger & Co.
H. & W. Crawford
S. & J. B. Ford
J. & B.
Jarvis & Brown
Patterson & Duncan
J. B. Danforth
Chamberlin & Caldwell

Amount
of goods
saved.
$493 12
357 82
400 00
1471.65
757 42
361 60
238 00
862 36
501 60
2,000 00
409 50
360 19
424 85
473 00
4,530 841

Amount
of
salvage.
$98 62
71 56
80 00
294 33
151 48
72 32
47 60
172 47'
100 32
400 00
81.00
72 04
84 97
94 60
906 17

$13,641 951$2,728 38

The case was argued by Mr Wirt, for the appellant; and
by Mr Mayer, for the appellees.
As the court gave no opinion on another point but that of
jurisdiction, the argument upon the merits, and on other questions presented by the counsel, are omitted.
Mr Mayer, for the appellees, contended, that the supreme
court had not jurisdiction in the case, as the sum in controversy was not sufficient to authorize an appeal from the circuit
court to this court.
The property saved consisted of merchandize in separate
parcels, belonging to diffeient consignees. But one parcel exceeded two thousand dollars in value.
By the agreement of the counsel the appeals were to be
separate; and the case rests upon the principles decided by this
court in the case of The Warren, 6 Peters, 143. *Theinterests
of the owners of the merchandize were not consolidated. The
consolidation, by the general decree, is unimportant.

SUPREME COURT.
tStratton v. Jarvis and Brown.]

As to the single parcel of goods exceeding two thousand
dollars in value, the inquiry is not what was the value of the
goods, but what amount of salvage should be allowed. The
claim of the libellant is not presented to this court beyond the
salvage on all the goods saved, as given by the district court;
and that amounted to but eight hundred dollars.
Although the case may stand before this court de novo, yet
this relates only to the matter in the district court, from the
decree of which court the libellant did not appeal.
Mr Wirt, in reply, contended, that in a case
of salvage, it
never had been decided that the separate interests and rights
of the owners of the property saved would be looked into.
The saving is an aggregate conjoint act; and the amount of
the whole goods saved, all of whicli are subjected to salvage,
should regulate the jurisdiction. In any other view, a large
cargo might be so split up into different ownerships, as even
to take away the jurisdiction of the district court.
The decree of the district and circuit courts was for a gross
sum to be paid out of the total amount of the cargo; thus both
courts took jurisdiction over the whole property saved, as an
amount in gross, which was far beyond the sum required to
give jurisdiction. The agreement in the circuit court has no
action on the appeal from that court: nor does-the case of the
Warren apply, as there the amount claimed by each of the
parties was, fixed by the decree of the court beloA'v.
Mr Justice STORy delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of a libel for a salvage service performed by
the libellant, the master and owner of the sloop Liberty, and by
his crew; in saving certain goods and merchandizes on board of
the brig Spark while aground on the bar at Thomas's Point in
the Chesapeake Bay. The goods were owned by a number of
persons, in several and distinct rights; and a general claim and
answer was interposed in behalf of all of them by Jarvis and
Brown (the owners of a part of them) ; without naming who in
particular the owners were, or distinguishing their separate proprietary interests. This proceeding was doubtless irregular in
both respects. Jarvis and Brown had no authority merely as
co-shippers to interpose any claim for other shippers with

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Stratton v. Jarvis and Brown.]

whom they had no privity of interest or consignment: and
several claims-should have been interposed by the several owners, or by :other persons authorized to act for them in the premises, each intervening, in his own name, for his proprietary
interest, and spe(ifying it. If any owner should not appear to
claim any particular paicel of the property, the habit of courts
of admiralty is, to retain such property, or its proceeds, after
deducting the salvage, until a claim is made, or a year and a
day have elapsed from the time of the institution of the proceedings. And when separate claims are interposed, although the
libel is joint against the whole property, each claim is treated
as a distinct and independent proceeding, in the nature of a
several suit; upon which there may be a several independent
hearing, decree and appeal. This is very familiar in practice in prize causes and seizures in rem for forfeitures; and is
equally applicable to all other proceedings in rem,. whenever
there are distinct and independent claimants. The irregularity (such.as it is) in the present case, is however of no importance; as the parties; by their agreement of record, have agreed
that separate appeals should be filed from the decree of the
district court for each of the owners, as specified in a list subjoined thereto, and that the cause should be considered and
treated as if such separate appeals were filed, and that none
of the appellants should have any privileges or advantages
which would not appertain to them if such appeal were a separate one. This agreement, in legal effect, creates the very
severance which the- original claim and answer ought to have
propounded in due form.
At the trial, in the district court, upon the allegations and
proofs in the cause, there was no controversy as to the salvage
service; and the case was reduced to the mere consideration of
the amount to be awarded as salvage. The district court decreed a salvage of one-fifth of the gross proceeds of the sales of
the goods and merchandizes, and directed the same to be sold
accordingly. The salvage thus decreed was afterwards ascertained upon the sales, to be in the aggregate two thousand
seven hundred and twenty-eight dollars and'thirty-eight cents ;
but no formal apportionment thereof was made. From this decree an appeal was interposed in behalf of all the owners of the
goods and merchandizes to the circuit court; but no appeal was
VOL. v1i.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[Stratton v. Jarvis and Brown.]

interposed by the libellant. The consequence is, that the decree
of the district court is conclusive upon him as to the amount of
salvage in his favour. He cannot, in the appellate court, claim,
any thing beyond that amount, since he has not, by any appeal
on his part, controverted its sufficiency. Although no apportionment of the salvage among the various claimants was for,
mally directed tobe made by any interlocutory order of the district
court, an apportionment appears to havebeen in factmade under
its authority. A schedule is found in the .record containing
the names of all the owners and claimants, the gross sales of
their property, and the amount of salvage apportioned upon each
of them respectively. By this schedule the highest salvage
chargeable on any distinct claimant is nine hundred and six
dollars and seventeen cents, and the lowest forty-seven dollars
and sixty cents ; the latter sum being below the amount for
which an appeal by the act of the 3d of March 1803, ch. 93, is
allowed from a decree of the district court in admiralty and maritime causes.
.Upon an appeal, the cir'cuit court reversed the decree of the
district court, and awarded one-twentieth part (instead of onefifth) of the gross sales as salvage ; and from this latter decree
the libellant has appealed to this court.
The first question is, whether this court has jurisdiction to
entertain the appeal, the aggregate amount of the whole salvage exceeding the sum of two thousand dollars; but that
which is due or payable by any distinct claimant being very
far short of that sum. The argument in favour of the jurisdiction is, that the salvage service is entire, and the decree is
for a specified proportion or aliquot part of the whole of the
gross sales; and therefore it is chargeable upon the proceeds as
an entirety, and not upon the separate parcels thereof, according
to the interests of the separate owners. We are of a different
opinion. In the appeal here, as in that from the district court,
the case of each claimant having a separate interest must be
treated as a separate appeal, pro interesse suo, from the decree,
so far as it regards that interest; and the salvage chargeable
on him constitutes the whole matter in dispute between him
and the libellant: with the fate of the other claims, however
disposed of, ie has and can have nothing to do. It is true that
the salvage service was in one sense entire; but it certainly

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Stratton v. Jarvis and Brown.]

cannot be deemed entire for the purpose of founding a right
against all the claimants jointly, so as to make them all jointly
responsible for the whole salvage. On the contrary, each
claimant is responsible only for the salvage properly due, and
chargeable on the gross proceeds or sales of his own property
pro rata. It would otherwise follow that the property of one
claimant might* be made chargeable with the payment of the
whole salvage, which would be against the clearest principles
of law on this subject. The district and circuit courts manifestly acted upon this.view of the matter; and their decrees
would be utterly unintelligible upon any other. Their decrees,
respectively, in giving a certain proportion of the gross sales,
must necessarily apportion that amount, pro rata, upon the whole
proceeds, according to the distinct interests of each claimant.
We are therefore of opinion, that we have no jurisdiction to
entertain the present appeal in regard to any of the claimants;
and the cause must for this reason be dismissed. The district
court, as a court of original jurisdiction, has general jurisdiction
of all causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, without reference to the sum or value of the matter in controversy. But
the appellate jurisdiction of this court and of the circuit courts,
depends upon the sum or value of the matter in dispute between
the parties, having independent interests.
Appeal dismissed accordingly.

