JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. ANDREW HACK,
THOMAS SEWALL, AND JAMES WILKES, JUN., ASSIGNEES OF

JOIIN S TOUFFER.
Thd priority of the United States does not extend so as to take the property
of a partner from partnership effects, to pay a separate debt, due by such
partner to the United States, when the partnership effects are not sufficient
to satisfy the creditors of the partnership.
It is a rule too well settled to be now called in question, that the interest of
each partner in the partnership property, is his share in the surplus, after
the partnership debts are paid ; and that surplus only, is liable for the separate debts of such partner.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The United States instituted an action of assumpsit against
the defendants, in the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Maryland. The defendants pleaded non assumpsit,
and the case was submitted to the court by the counsel for the
plaintiffs and the defendants, on the following statement of
facts agreed.
" It is agreed between the parties in this case, by their counsel, that John Stouffer is largely indebted to the plaintiffs on
sundry judgments rendered against him on customhouse
bonds; that the said John Stouffer was, at the date of the said
bonds, and of the rendition of the said judgments, a partner in
trade with his brother Jacob Stouffer, and so continued-dntil
the execution -of the deed of trust hereinafter referred to : that
the said John and Jacob Stouffer, becoming embarrassed and
insolvent in their affairs, on the 19th day of May 1832, executed a deed of trust to and in favour of the defendants, of all
their joint and partnership 'property, for the benefit of their joint
and partnership creditors, having no private or undivided estate;
that the said property is not sufficient for the payment of all
said creditors, but that the said John Stouffer's undivided half,
now in thei possession of the said trustees, amounts to nine
hundred and seventy-four dollars and seventy-one cents.
"It is also agreed thz' the amount of the unsatisfied judgments of the United Statea against the said John Stouffer is, at

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Hack et al.]

this date, two thousand one hundred dollars, and upwards
after exhausting his private and-individual estate. And the
amount now in the possession of the aforesaid trustees, being
the proceeds of the said partnership estate, is one thousand
nine hundred and forty-nine dollars forty-two cents, one half
of which is nine hundred and seventy-four dollars seventy-one
cents.
"Upon the foregoing statement of facts, the district attorney
contends that the plaintiffs are entitled to receive from the defendants the sum of nine hundred and seventy-four dollars and
Seventy-one cents, being the proceeds of John Stouffer's undivided half of, in, and to the aforesaid partnership estate, to be
applied to the satisfaction of the aforesaid judgments recovered
against the said John Stouffer.
"The counsel for the defendants contends that the plaintiffs
are not entitled to receive any thing from the defendants in
this action, on the ground that the money in their hands is the
proceeds of partnership property, the whole of which is inadequate to the entire payment of the partnership debts ; and that
the plaintiffs are creditors of John Stouffer only, and not of the
said partners. The question submitted to this court is, whether
the plaintiffs are entitled to recover from the defendants in this
case the said sum of nine hundred and seventy-four dollars
and seventy-one cents, being one half of the aforesaid partnership estate. It is finally agreed that all errors in pleading be
mutually released, and that either party shall have the privilege of prosecuting a writ of error to the supreme court of the
United States."
The circuit court gave judgment for the defendants ; and
the United States prosecuted this writ of error. The case was
argued by the Attorney-General, for the United States. No
counsel appeared to argue the cause for the defendants.
For the United States, the Attorney-General contended, that,
under the provisions of the acts of congress, the United States,
as judgment creditors of John Stouffer, were entitled to be first
paid to the extent of his share of the property assigned to the
defendants, in preference to the creditors of the partnership;
and that the judgment of the court below ought, therefore, to
be reversed.
The Attorney-General conceded that, by i general law of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Hack et al.]

partnership, both in the United States and in England, Ihe
property of the partnership was first liable to the debts of the
firm ; and although an execution may go against such effects
ill
favour of a separate creditor of one of the partners, yet the
putchaser under such proceedings, could only take the property
of the partner subject to such debts. He referred to the authbrities oi this point in the reports of cases decided in the United
Sta(es. I Gallison 367; 1 Peters's C. C. R. 460; in the
matter of Smith; 16 Johnson 102, and the cases in the notes ;
15 Mass. Rep. 82 ; I Wendell's Rep. 311 ; 2 Wendell's Rep.
554.
This being tne general law of partnership, and this court
having decided in the case of Conard v. The Atlantic insurance Company, I Peters 489, that the priority of the United
States does not divest anterior liens, the foundation of the claim
of the United States in this case can rest only on the local law
of Maryland.
The case of Patterson, 2 Harris and M'Henry 463, arose
under the act of the legislature of Maryland, and was decided in 1790. That act is now in force. The act was
passed in 1715, chap. 4 of the laws of that year, and it authorizes a debtor to pursue the property of his creditor wherever it
may be found. If, in the state of Maryland, a debtor may
proceed under this law against partnership property, may not
the United States! 1No case entirely applicable to. the case
before the court, has been found in.the Maryland reports. In
a case where the private property of the parties had gone into
the partnership effects, would not the rights of the creditors be
equal ? Suppose an importation of goods liable to duties had
been passed over to a partnership, would not the United States
have a right to call on the partnership for the unpaid duties ?
The Attorney-General stated tlhat he had found this case on
the docket of the court; and had felt himself bound to submit
it for decision with these remarks.
.MrJustice THOMPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes up on a writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Maryland. The
action in the circuit court was, for the recovery of a sum of
money, which came into the hands of the defendants, as asVOL. VII.-2 K

SUPREME COURT.
LUnited States v. Hack et al.]

signees of John and Jacob Stouffer, who were partners in trade,
and had become insolvent.
The material facts in the case, as agreed between the parties are :-That John Stouffer, one of the partners, is largely
indebted to the United States on sundry judgments rendered
against him on customhouse bonds. ' That at the date of said
bonds, and at the time of the rendition of the judgments, he
was a partner in trade with Jacob Stouffer, and so continued
until the 19th day of May 1832, when they became embarrassed and insolvent, and executed a deed of trust, to and in
favour of the defendants, for all their joint and partnership
property,.for the benefit of their joint and partnership creditors,
they having no private or individual estate. The property
then assigned, is not sufficient to pay the partnership creditors;
but the undivided half of John Stouffer, now in the possession
of the defendants, amounts to nine hundred and seventy-four
dollars and seventy one cents.
Upon this state of facts, the question'submitted to the circuit
court was, whether the United States were entitled to recover
for the defendants the sum of nine hundred and seventy-four
dollars and seventy-one cents, being John Stouffe!"s half of the
proceeds of the partnership estate.
Upon which the court gave judgment for the defendants.
It is claimed, on the part of the plaintiffs in error, that, under
the provisions of the acts of congress, the United States, as
judgment creditors of John Stouffer, are entitled to be fi st paid,
to the extent of his share of the property, assigned to the defendants, in preference to the creditors of the partnership.
The act of congress, 3 vol. L. U. S. 197, sect. 65, declares,
that when any bond fox the payment of duties shall not be satisfied on the day it becomes due, the collector shall forthwith
cause a prosecution tope commenced, &c. And in all cases
of insolvency, or where any estate, in the hands of the executors, administrators or assignees, §hall be insufficient to pay all
the debts due from the deceased, the debt or debts due from
'the United States on such bonds, shall be first satisfied, &c.
The construction of this clause of the act of congress, has
frequently come under the consideration of this court, although
not under the circumstances in which it is now presented. It
was held, at an early day, in the case of the United States v.

JANUARY TE RM 1834.
[United States v; Hack et al.]

Fisher and others, 2 Cranch 358, 1 Cond. Rep. 421, in the
construction of a similar clause in the act of 3d March 1797,
ch. 74, that no lien is crea(ed by this law. No bona fide transferof property, in thd ordinary course of business, is overreached.
And in a' late case of Conard v. The Atlantic Insurance
Company, I Peters 439 ; this question received a very full
examination, and explanation of some former decisions which
seem not to have been fully understood. And in the course
of which it is observed : "What then is the nature of the privity thus limited and established in favour of the United States ?
Is it ttright which supersedes and overrules the assignment of
tle debtor, as toany property which the United States mayafterwards elect to take in execution, so as to prevent such property
from passing by virtue of such assignment to the assignee ? Or
is it aimere right of prior payment, out of the general funds of
the debtor, in the hands of the assignee?. We are of opinion,
that it clearly falls within the latter description."
If then the debt of the United States is not a lien but only
entitled to priority of payment out of the general funds of the
debtor in the hands of the assigriee, what are the funds.
out of which this priority is set up in the present case ? They
are not the funds of John Stouffer, the debtor of the United
States, but of John and Jacob Stouffer, who have become insolvent, and having no separate property; and the partnership property is insufficient to satisfy the partnership creditors. It is a
rule too well settled to be now called in question, that the
interest of each partner in the partnership property, is his share
in the surplus, after the partnership debts are paid; and that
surplus only, is liable for the, separate debts of such partner.
And this is the rule in the exchequer in England, with respect
to debts due to the crown. In the case of The King v. Sanderson, I Wightwick's Ex. Rep. 50, it was held, that upon an
extent against one partner, the crown, like a-separate .private
creditor, took the separate interest of the partner, subject to the
partnership debts.
It has been a question very much litigated in England, and
in this country, both in the courts of law and equity, as to the
manner in which the separate creditor of one partner, was to
avail himself of the share of such partner in the joint property
of the firni, where the :partnership is solvent. But whatever

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Hack et al.]

course is adopted, it is the interest only of the separate partner
that is taken, and always subject to the rights of the partnership creditors; 16 Johns. 106, and cases in note ; 2 Johns. Ch.
548 ; 4 Johns. Ch. 525; 2 Cond. Rep. 516. But that question does not arise here, as it is admitted that the partnership
property is insufficient to pay the partnei ship debts. *We entlertain no doubt, therefore, that the United States are riot entitled
to recover the- nine hundred and seventy-four dollars anid seventy-one cents.
The judgment of the circuit court is accordingly affirmed.This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the dis.
trict of Maryland, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said circuit court, in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirnied.

