JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. JOSEPH

H.

HEW

vAiz.

The decree of the superior court of East Florida, confirmin" a .zoncession of
land by governor Coppinger to the appellee, affirmed.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
The case was argued by Mr Call, for the United States;
and by Mr White, for the appellee.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the judge of the superior
court for the eastern district of Florida, declaring the claim of
the appellee to twenty thousand acres of land to be valid.
His title commences with the following decree, made by
governor Coppinger on the 18th of November 1817.
"In attention to what the interested party sets forth and
represents, and in virtue of the powers which are annexed to
my authority, also conforming to the laws and royal dispositions on the distribution of lands, the memorialist being one of
those settlers who most contributes to the improvement of this
province; I grant him, in the name of his majesty, and of his
royal justice which I administer, the twenty thousand acres of
land which he requests, in the places which he points out in
his memorial, that he may possess them in absolute property
and dominion. And for confirmation, and his security until
titles in form be delivered him, which will be as soon as he
shall have accomplished the survey and demarcation of said
lands by a surveyor, let the proceedings be lodged in the
archives of the notary, and an authenticated copy given to th&
interested."
The order of survey was made on the 5th of Dec'ember
1820, and executed by Don Andrew Burgevin in three surveys,
on the 4th and 5th of April 1821. The full title was.granted
on the 9th of the same month.
The court decreed that the claim was valid, and confirmed

486'

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Hernandez.]

the same "to the claimant to the extent and agreeably to the
boundaries, as in the three surveys of the said land made hy
Don Andrew Burgevin, and dated the 4th and 5th days of
April 1821, and filed as herein is set forth.
As the surveys and full title were made after the 24th day
of January 1818, the claim of the petitioner depends entirely
on the concession of the 18th of November 1817; and such
was the opinion of the district court. That concession having
been unconditional, and the power of the governor to make it
having been decided in the case of G. J. F. Clarke, the only
remaining question is, whether the land contained in the surveys is also contained in the concession.
The decree of the governor refers to the petition on which
it was made, for a description of the property conveyed.
The petitioner, after setting forth his services and meritorious
clhims, proceeds, "wherefore lie prays your excellency to be
pleased to grant him in absolute property and dominion,
twenty thousand acres of land: to wit, ten thousand on both
banks of the river St John's, between the place known by the
name of Buffalo's Bluff, and another place named Mount
Tucker; and the remaining ten thousand on the west side of
Lake St George, the land to be divided into two parts by a
brook or creek, which discharges itself into said lake, named
Salt Spring, about ten miles more or less to the north of
another creek, named Silver Creek."
The ten thousand acres on both banks of the river t John's,
are laid off in two surveys of five thousand acres each. One
on the east side of. the river, between Buffalo's Bluff and
Mount Tucker, and the other on the west side of that river.
These tracts appear to have been properly surveyed.
The other survey for ten thousand acres, is laid down on
the west side of Lake St George, and is divided into two parts,
by a brook which discharges itself into the lake, and is in the
decree named Salt Spring. In the certificate of the surveyor,
it is called White Spring. The decree of the court corresponds

precisely with the concession, as does the figure of the plat.
No other discrepancy is found, than in thle name of the spring.
As no notice was taken of this discrepancy in the district court
where the locality of the survey was understood, we suppose

JANUARY TERM 1834.

487

LUnited States v. Hernandez.]

that the spring may have been known by both names, or that
some error may have taken place in transcribing the record.
The decree of the district court is affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the superior court for the eastetn district of Florida,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it isordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of
the safd superior court confirming the title of the petitioner in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed, in all respects.

