JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE

UNITED

STATES, APPELLANTS

V.

ONE

HUNDRED

A?-

TWELVE CASKS OF SUGAR, NATHAN GoODALE CLAIMANT.
A seizure was made in the port of New Orleans, under the sixty-severith
section of the act of 1799J, for the collection of duties, (3 V.,]. L. U. S.)
which authorizes the collector, where he shall suspect a false and fraudu.
lent entry to have been made of any goods, wares or merchandises, to cause
an exoirination to be made, and iffound to differ from the entry, the merchandize is declared to be forfeited, unless it shall be made to appear to
the collector, or to the court in which a prosecution for the forfeiture shall
be had, that such difference proceeded from accident or mistake, and not
from an intention to defraud the revenue. After hearing the testimony offered in the cause, the court'decreed and ordered, that the property'seized
be restored--to the claimant, upon the payment of a duty of fifteen per cent
ad valorem ; that the lbel be dismissed and that probable cause of seizure
be certified ofrecord The United States appealed from this decree.
The court not being able to decide from the evidence, sent up with the
record, that the article, in point of fict, differs from the entry at the customhouse, affirmed the decree of the court below.
The denomination of merchandise, subject to the payment-of, duties, is to be
understood in a commercial sense, although it may not be scientifically correct. All laws regulating the payment of duties are for practical applica.
tion to commercial operations, and are to be understood in a commercial
sense. And it is to be presumed that congress so used and intended them
to be understood.

APPEAL from the district court of the-United States for thle
eastern district of Louisiana.
This case was presented to the court on printed statements and
arguments, by Mr Butler, attorney-general, for the appellanis.
Mr Justice TnomPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The sugars in question in this case were seized by the.collector of the district of Mississippi, and libelled in the district
court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana,
under the allegation that they had been falsely entered at the
customhouse of the port of New Orleans, as syrup; when in fact
they were casks of sugar in a state of partial solution in water.
The libel charges that this entry was made by a false designation of the merchandise, with an intent to defraud the revenue

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. 112 Casks of Sugar.]

of the United States, by subjecting the article to an ad valorem
duty of fifteen per cent only, instead of a specific duty of three
cents and four cents per pound, if entered as sugars, which, as
is alleged, they in fact were.
This seizure was made tnder the sixty-seventh section of the
act'of 1799, for the collection of duties, (3 Vol. L. U. S. .199)
which authorizes the collector, when he shall suspect a false
and fraudulent entry to have been made of any goods, v.,ares
or merchandise, to cause an examination to be made, and if
found to differ from the entry, the merchandise is declared to
be forfeited, unless it shall be made to appear to the collector,
or to the court in which a prosecution for the forfeiture shall be
had, that such difference proceeded from accident or mistake,
and not from an intention to defraud the revenue.
The answer and claim of'Goodale denies that the contents
of the casks were sugar, or that they diffei from the entry, or
that the entry was made with intent to defraud the revenue.
After hearing the testimony offered in the cause, the court
decreed, and ordered, that the property seized be restore'd to the
claimant, upon the. payment of a duty of fifteen per cent ad
valorem thereupon, that the libel be dismissed, and that probable cause of seizure be certified of record.
From this decree the present appeal is taken.
The decision in this case turns entirely upon the questions,
whether, in point of fact, the merchandise was different from
the denomination under which it wits entered; that is, whether the article was sugar, and not syrup; and if not syrup,
then whether such entry was made with intent to defraud the
revenue. It is deemed unnecessary to go irto a particular and
detailed examination of the testimony oyn the trial. A number
of witnesses were examined on both sides, for the purpose of
-ascertaining the charhicter and denomination of the article in
question. It was a pure question of fact, and the nature of the
inquiry admitted of nothing more certain than art expression of
opinion, and which resulted, as is generally the case in such
inquiries, in a difference of opinion. In such cases the court
must be governed, in a great measure, by the-character and
intelligence of the witnesses , and the opportunities they have
had of becoming acquainted with the subject upon which they
are called upon to express an opinion; and th weight f the

JAI UARY TERM 1834.
[United.States v. 112 Casks of Sugar.]

opinion of a witness, and the influence it is to hove upon the
tribunal, whether court or jury, which is to decide upon it, will
depend very iuch upon seeing and hearing the witness give his
testimony. When, therefore, a case rests upon a mere question
of fact, and especially when that fact is to be ascertained by the
uncertain evidence of opinion, the appellate court ought to place
much, reliance upon the decision of the court below, and not
reverse a decree, unless it is very satisfact6rily shown to be
against the weight of evidence.
One of the witnesses examined on the part of the United
States was a chemist, who had analyzed a portion of the article in question, and found it composed of nothing but sugar,
dissolved in water, and was not syrup according to his understanding; which, as he says, is prepared by pouring water on
sugar, and boiling it to that consistency which prevents crystallization, and that to produce this effectit is necessary to introduce other agents, -such as the white of eggs, &c. With respect to this and all other testimony of this description, it is only
necessary to observe, that the denomination of merchandize,
subject to the payment of duties, is to be understood in a commercial sense, although it may not be scientifically correct. All
laws regulating the payment ofduties are for practical application to commercial operations, and are to be understood in a
commercial sense. And it is to be presumed that congress so
used and intended them to be understood.
Two of the witnesses on the part of the United States who
were merchants, and had dealt largely in sugars, and apparently very competent judges on the subject, testified, that
sugar dissolved in water is not considered syrup, in the sense
generally used in common parlance, as an article of commerce.
To make syrup, the sugar -must be boiled and clarified. They
say that sugar barely dissolved in water is a new article, not
known in common as an article of trade. Some other witnesses 'were examined on the part of the United State-s who
express an opinion that this article is not syrup. Their situation and knowledge of the article, however, do not seem to
qualify them to form a very satisfactory opinion on. the sub.
ject. But none of these witnesses undertake to say that the
article could with any propriety be called sugar.
On the part of the claimant a greater number of witnesses
were examined, one of whom was a sugar refiner, who saye,

•280

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. 112 Casks of Sugar.]

that speaking as a mercehant and sugar refiner, he should con-

sider this article syrup.. It cannot, he says, be called by any
other name. Several other merchants and dealers in sugar
concur \Nibh him. Some say the basis of all syi up is sugar and
water boiled together. That the different kinds of syrups are
produced by putting into the sugar the different articles from
wrvich the syrup takes its name, such as orange, lenon, &c.
Some call it natural syrup ; others speak of it as an inferior
kinid of syrup, but all deny that it can with any propriety be
called sugar. The district attorney testiies that when the
seizure was made, it was supposed by the collector to be the
expressed juice of the cane, boiled to a certain consistency;
that it was not theh known thu it. had been prepared by the
dissolution of sugar with water.
There is certainly very strong reason for suspecting that
this was done for the purpose of evading the specific duty on
sugar; especially as it is admitted on the record that the claimant has an establishment at Matanzas for preparing sugar in
this manner, for the 1Iurpose of shipment. to New Orleans, to
be made into refined sugar, at his esia-Alishrnent or refinery at
that place. Yet we do not think, under the evidence in the
cause, we, as an appellate cott,', ought to reverse the decree
of the court below, and decree a forfeiture, especially as we
cannot say, from the evidence, that the article, in point of fact,
differs from the entry at the customhouse. It is difficult to say
what is its true denomination. The witnesses speak of it as a
new article, not known in trade. None call it sugar. All seem
to think it may be called syrup, in some sense, though several
think it is not such, according to the understanding of that
article in trade and commerce. Upon tle whole, we think
the decree of the court below ought to be affirmed,-and a certificate of probable cause of seizure be certified of record.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States, for the eastern
district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, and that a certificate of probable cause of seizure be certified of record.

