SUPREME COURT.

CHARLES

A.

DAVIS, CONSUL OF THE KING OF SAXONY, PLAIN-

TIFF IN ERROR V.

ISAAC PACKARD,

HENRY

DISDIER AND

WILLIAM MORPHY.
At a former term of this court, the judgment of the court for the correction of
errors of the state of New York, was reversed in this case, this court being
of opinion that Charles A. Davis, being consul-general of the king of Saxony, was exempted from being sued in the state court, and that by reason
thereof, the judgment rendered against him by the court for the correction
of errors was erroneous, and ordered and adjudged that the judgment of
the court for the correction of errors should be, and the same was thereby
reversed; and that the cause be remanded to the court for the correction of
errors, with directions to conform its judgment to this opinion. A mandate
issued in pursuance of this judgment to the court for the correction of
errors, and that court declared and adjudged, " that a consul-general of the
king of Saxony is, by the constitution and laws of the United States, exempt from being sued in a state court;" and that court further adjudged
that the supreme court of the state of Now York, from which court this
case had been brought, by a writ of error, to the court of errors of New
York, is a court of general common law jurisdiction, and that the court of
errors has no power, jurisdiction or authority for any error in fact, or any
error than such as appears upon the face of the record of the proceedings of
the supreme court, to reverse a judgment of that court ; that no other error
can be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal of the judgment of said
supreme court than such as appears upon the record of the proceedings of
the said court, and which relates to questions actually before the justices of
that court by a plea to its jurisdiction or otherwise ; and that the court of
errors is not authorised to notice the allegations of Davis, assigned for error
in that court, that he was consul-general of the king of Saxony, or to try
or regard said allegation ; and there being no error on the face of the record
of the proceedings of the supreme court of New York, the defendant in
error was entitled to a judgment of affirmance according to the laws of that
state, any matter assigned for error in fact to the contrary notwithstanding.
The court of errors further declared, that for any error in the judgment of the
supreme court or its proceedings, assignable for error in fact, the party
aggrieved by such error may sue out a writ of error coram vohis, returnable to
the supreme court, upon which the plaintiff may assign errors in fact; and
if such fact is admitted or found by the verdict of the jury, the supreme court
may revoke their judgment, and for any error in the judgment of the supreme court upon the writ of error coram vobis, the court of errors has jurisdiction upon a writ of error to the supreme court to review the last judgment. The defendants in error having, upon the filing of the mandate
to the supreme court, applied to the court of errors to dismiss the writ of
error to the supreme court of that state, the same was quashed, and the

JANUARY TERMi ,1834.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]
defendants in error adjudged to recover their costs against the plaintiff in
error.
This judgment of the court of errors was brought up by a writ of error, and
it was argued that the mandate on the former judgment had been disregarded, and that consequently the second judgment ought to be reversed.
By the court:- The court has feli'great difficulty on this question: the importance of preserving uniformity in the construction of' the constitution, laws
and treaties of the United States must bo felt by all; and the impracticability of maintaining this uniformity, unless the power of supervising all
judgments in which the constitution, laws or treaties of the United States
may be drawn into question, be vested in some single tribunal, is too apparefit for controversy.. The people of the United States have vested that
power in this tribunal, and its highest duty is, to exercise it with fidelity.
The point of difficulty in this case is to decide, whether the legitimate exercise of this power has been obstructed by the judgment of the court of errors
for New York, now under consideration.
It is not admitted that the court whose judgment has been reversed or affirmed
can rejudge that reversal or affirmance ; but it must be conceded that the
court of dernier resort, in every state, decides upon its own jurisdiction
and upon the jurisdiction of all the inferior courts to which its appellate,
power extends.
Neither the judgment nor mandate of this court prescribed in terms the judgment which should be rendered by the court of errors of New York. This
court proceeded to order that the cause be remanded to the said court for
the correction of errors, with directions to conform its judgment to the
opinion of this court. The opinion expressed therein was, that Charles A.
Davis, being consul-geiieral of the king of Saxbny, exempted him from
being sued in the state court.
rhe judgment rendered !n the court of errors being thus reversed, because of
this exemption, it was for the court of errors to inquire and decide in vhat
manner it should conform its judgment to this opinion. Had that court reentered its former judgment, the direct opposition of this proceeding to the
mandate- Would have been apparent But this was not done. The court of
errors admitted the exemption of Charles A. Davis from being sued in the
courts of a state ; but added, that the fact did not appear in the record of the
proceedings of the supreme court of New York; and that its own power did
not extend to the reversal of any judgment of that court, for an error of
fact not apparent on the face of the record, though it should be assigned as
error in the court for the correctionof errors.
The judgment of the court of errors, thus affirming the judgment of the supreme court of the state, stands reversed, and the writ of error to that judgment is quashed, leaving the defendant in the original action at full liberty
to sue out and prosecute his writ of error coram vobis, for its revArsal in the
supreme court of New York.
If the jurisdiction of the court for the correction of errors does not, according
to the laws by which the judicial system of New York is organised, enable
that court to notice errors in fact in the proceedings of the supreme court,
not apparent on the face of the record, it is difficult to perceive how that
court could conform its judgment to that of this court, otherwise than by
2
VOL. VmI.P

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]
to the supreme court. Had that been its original
error
quashing its writ of
judgment, it is not believed that this court would have reversed it, and we
do not think that, as now rendered, it can be held to be erroneous.
The judgment was affirmed.

IN error to th court for the correction of errors of the state of
New York.
This case was before the court on a writ of error at January
term 1832. A motion was made to dismiss the writ of error,
on the ground that it did not appear on the record of the proceedings in the case before the supreme court of New York,
from which court it had been taken to the court for the correction of errors, that the plaintiff in error was consul of the
king of Saxony. The court refused the motion, considering
that the official character of the plaintiff was sufficiently apparent in the proceedings, 5 Peters 41. Afterwards, at January
term 1833, 7 Peters 276, this case carne on for argument. The
court decided, that " the record of the proceedings, brought up
with the writ of error to the court for the correction of errors
of the state of New York, showed that the suit was commenced
in the supreme court of the state of New York, against the
plaintiff in error, who was consul of the king of Saxony, and who
did not plead or set up his exemption from such suit, in the supreme'court ; but, on the cause being carried up to the court
for the correction of errors, this matter was assigned for error
.in fact, notwithstanding which, the court gave judgment
against the plaintiff in error. The court of errols having decided, that the character of consul did not exempt the plaintiff
in error from being sued in the state court, the judgment is
reversed."
The following mandate was issued to the court for the trial
of impeachments and correction of errors, of the state of New
York.
"The United States of America, ss. The president of the
United States of America, to the president of the senate of the
state of New York, the senators, chancellor and justices of the
supreme court of the said state, being the judges of the court
for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors, holden in
and for the said state of New York. Greeting :
" Whereas, lately, in the court for the trial of impeachments
and correction of errors, holden in and for the state of New

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]

York, before you, or some of you, in a cause between Charles
A. Davis, plaintiff in error, and Isaac Packard, Henry Disdier
and William Morphy, defendants in error; the judgment of the
said court for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors,
was-in the following words, to wit: "Therefore, it is considered by the said court for the correction of errors, that the judg
ment of the supreme court aforesaid be, and the same is hereby
in all things affirmed. It is further considered, that the said
defendants in error recover, against the plaintiff in error, their
double costs, according to the statute in such case made and
provided, to be taxed in defending the writof error in this cause,
and also interest on the amount recovered, by way of damages," as by the inspection of the transcript of the record of the
said court for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors,
which was brought into the supreme court of the United States
by virtue of a writ of error, agreeably to the act of congress in
such case made and provided, fully and at large appears.
And whereas, in the present term of January in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, the said
cause came on to be heard before the said supreme court, on
the said transcript of the record, and was argued by counsel ;
on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that
the plaintiff in-error, being consul-general of the king of Saxony, exempted him from being sued in the state court; by reason whereof, the judgment rendered by the court for the trial
of impeachments and correction of errors, is erroneous. Whereupon, it is ordered and adjudged'by this court, that the judgment of the said court for the trial of impeachments and
correction of errors be, and the same is hereby reversed ; and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the
said court, with directions to conform its judgment to the opinion of this court.
"Yov, therefore, are hereby commanded, that such further
proceedings be had in said cause, as according to right and
justice, and in conformity to the opinion and judgment of
said supreme court of the United States, and the laws of the
United States, ought to be had, the said writ of error notwithstanding.
"Witness the honourable John Marshall, chief iustice of said

SUPREME COURT.
EDavis v. Packard et al.]

supreme court, the second Monday of January in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three.
WILLIAM THOMAS CARROLL,

Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States."
At the April session 1833 of the court of errors of the state
of New York, the following proceedings took place, as stated
in the records of that court.
"The courtfor the correction of errors having heard the counsel for both parties, and diligently examined and fully understood all and singular the premises, and inspected as well the
record and proceedings aforesaid as the mandate of the said
supreme court of the United States: it is thereupon declared
and adjudged by this court that a consul-general of the king of
Saxony is, by the constitution and law of the United States,
exempt from being sued in a state court. It is further adjudged
and declared that the supreme court of the state of New York is a
courtof general common law jurisdiction, and that by the laws of
this state, this court has no jurisdiction, power, or authority, to
reverse a decision of the said supreme court for any error in fact,
or any other error than such as appears upon the face of the'record and proceedings of the said supreme court, and that no
other errors can be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal of judgment of the said supreme court, than such as appears
upon the record and proceedings of the said supreme court) and
which relate to questions which have actually been brought before the justices of that court for their decision thereon, by a plea
to the jurisdiction of that court or otherwise; and that this
court was not authorized to notice the allegations of the said
Charles A. Davis, assigned for error in this court, that he was
consul-general of the king of Saxony, or to try the truth of.the
said allegation, or to regard the said allegation as true; and that,
by the laws of this state, the replication of the defendant to an
assignment of errors,, that there is no error in the record and
proceedings aforesaid or in the giving of the judgment of the
supreme court, was not an admission of the truth -of any matter assigned as error in fact, or which was not properly assignable for error in this court; and that if there was no error upon
the face of the record and the proceedings- in the supreme

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]

court, the defendant in error was entitled to'a judgment of
affirmance according to the laws of this state, any matter
assigned for error in fact, to the contrary notwithstanding.
And it is further declared and adjudged that, by the laws of
this state, if there is any error in a judgment of the said supreme court, or in the proceedings, which is properly assignable
for error in fact, the party aggrieved by such error may sue out
a writ of error, coram vobis, returnable in the said supreme
court, upon which the plaintiff in error' may assign errors in
fact. And if such errors in fact are admitted, or are found to
be true by the verdict of a jury upon an issue joined thereon,
the said supreme court may revoke their said judgment; and
that, for any error in the judgment of the said supreme court

upon the said writ of error corarm vobis, this court has jurisdiction and authority upon a writ of error to the said supreme
court to review the said last mentioned judgment, and to give
such judgment in the premises as the said supreme court
ought to have given. It is therefore the opinion of this court
that, although the said Charles A. Davis, the plaintiff in, eror
in this cause, might have been the consul-general of the king
of Saxony, and as such was not liable to be sued in the state
court, yet inasmuch as the fact that he was such consul no
where appeared in the record of the judgment of' tfie said supreme court, the defendant in error-is entitled to the judgment
of- this court, affirming the said judgment of the said sup-9me
court. - But the defendant, in error having, upon the filinig of
the. said mandate -of the said supreme court of the United
States, applied to this court to dismiss the writ of error to the
said supreme court of this state, it is therefore ordered and adjudged that the said last mentioned writ of error be quashed :
and it is further ordered and adjudged that the said defendants
in error recover against the plaintiff in error their costs in this
court, according to the statute in such case made and provided,
to be taxed, and also interest on the amount of the judgment of
the court below, by way of damages ; and that the proceedings
be remitted to the said supreme court of this state, &c."
The defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr White, for the plaintiff in error;
and by Mr Selden, for the defendants.

SUPREME COURT
[Davis v. Packard et al.]

Mr White stated, that the, question before this court was,
whether the mandate from this court has been carried into
effect.
It has been decided here, that a state court cannot take cognizance of a suit against a consul. That his exemption from
the.jurisdiction of a state court, may be assigned as error in
the court of errors of the state of New York. The court of
errors have assented to the exemption ; but they have left the
judgment of the supreme court of the state in force. That
court have determined, after the reception of the mandate of
this court, that they would dismiss the writ of error to the supreme court of the state ; although they had, before the case
was brought here, decided not to do so.
In the case of Cohens v. The State of Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264, 5 Cond. Rep. 110, this court asserted the jurisdiction of
the supreme court of the United States to revise a judgment
against a foreign minister, entered in a state court. Consuls
have the same privileges that belong to ambassadors and other
publi ministers. In that case, the jurisdiction of the court is
declared to be original, "in all cases affecting ambassadors,
other public ministers and consuls." The jurisdiction is exclusive.
The court of errors of New York should have vacated the
judgment entered there, and the party would have obtained
his costs. By the mode of proceeding adopted by the court,
the plaintiff in error is subjected to the whole of the costs.
The question between the parties has become, principally, one
of costs, as the greater part of the debt has been paid.
Mr White cited the Revised Statutes of New York, vol. 5,p.
51; vol. 2, p. 166; 17 Johns. Rep. 473; 14 Johns. 517;
16 Johns. 353 ; 8 Cowen 661, 701 ; Paine and Davis's Practice 475.
Mr Selden, for the defendants, contended, that the court of
errors of New York could not exercise any jurisdiction to carry
into effect the iudgment of this court; and therefore they remanded the case to thesupreme court, where the errors might
be, and would be corrected.
The jurisdiction of the court of errors could not be increased
by any mandate from this court. All that court could do was, to

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Davis v. Packard et aL.]

allow the party to go before the supreme court, and there plead
his privilege ; and if in the proceedings of that court, upon.the
plea, there should be error in their judgment, the case might
be taken again before the court of errors, and there corrected.
This court Will not undertake to decide what are the powers of
a state court. They will not entertain such questions, unless
a construction shall be given to the laws establishing or regulating those courts, that will defeat the powers of this court.
The state court says, there is a court in which the party may
have the benefit of his plea, and if that court decides wrongi
the court of errors will correct the decision. Will this court
claim to controvert the construction, by the court of errors of
New York, of the powers and jurisdiction of the courts of that
state ? This is not necessary for the full and efficient exercise
of its jurisdiction by this court; and the harmony of the judicial
system of the federal and state courts will be promoted by
avoiding the assertion of such a claim.
Although a consul has, by the decision of this court, a privilege of exemption from suit in the court of a state, and this is
the privilege of his government; yet if the consul omits to plead
this exemption, he is not entitled to an action of trespass
against an officer who may execute process, founded on a
judgment rendered in a suit, in which the plea of privilege was
omitted. His government may complain, but he cannot.
The court of errors have said, the plaintiff in error, as the
consul of the king of Saxony, has the privilege he asserts
and if he is not allowed in the prdper court to do so, it will be
done in that court. The court of errors do not, therefore,
undertake to controvert the decision of this court.
Suppose this court had said, a venire de novo should be
issued in the court of errors, and that court should have decided
,,hat no such proceedings could be had before it, and refused to
issue the writ. Would the same have been other than what
was proper.
The decision referred to in 17 Johns. 473, was before the
present constitution of the court of errors. It is declared in the
present constitution of New York, that the court of errors can
never inquire into any fact which arises after the judgment;
but must send the case to a court, where the fact may be
inquired into.

SUPREME COURT.
EDavis v. Packard et al.]

Mr Justice THOMPSON.

Would not the court of errors obey

the mandate of this court, which only required that court to
revise their judgment ? They are asked to do no more.
Mr Selden admitted, that if the simple action, required by
the mandate of thiscourt, of the court. of errors, was, to revise
their judgment, the proceedings of that court did not conform
to it. But they have gone further, they have fully admittedthe law, as decided by this court; and have given the party
an opportunity to avail himself of it, by claiming his privilege
in the proper court. If the court of errors had only revised
their judgment, they would have left the judgment of the
supreme court to remain before them.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL inquired, whether the cburt of
errors might not, by revising their judgment, which had affirmed the judgment of the supreme court, have revised that
of the supreme court, and corrected it.

Mr White, in reply, insisted, that by the constitution and
laws of New York, the court of errors had. authority to direct
an issue of fact to be tried before that court.
He suggested, that if the action of the court of errors in this
case, shall be sustained by this court, the courts of the states
of the union, may so model their proceedings, as to defeat the
supervising authority of this court.
. Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered by the court
for the correction of errors of the state of New York.
The defendants in error lbad obtained a jutIgment against
Charles A. Davis in the supreme court of New York, which
was removed by.writ of error into the court for correction of
errors. In that court the said Davis assigned for error, that he
was, when the suit was instituted, and has ever since continued to be consul-general of his majesty the king of Saxony,
in the United States, and ought, according to the constitution
and laws of the United States, to have been impleaded in the
said supreme court of the United States, or in some district

JANUARY TERM 1834.
tDavis v. Packard et al.

court of the said United States, and that the said supreme court
had not jurisdiction, and ought, not to have taken to itself the
cognizance of the said cause. The defendants in error'replied, that there was no error; and the court for the correction
of errors affirmed the judgment of the-supreme court.
This last judgment was brought before this court in conformity with the twenty-fifth section of the judicial act, and this
court being of opinion " that the said Charles A. Davis being
consul-general of the king of Saxony, exempted him from
being sued in the state court, and that by reason thereof,
the judgment rendered by the court for the correction of errors,
was erroneous ; therefore, it was considered, ordered and adjudged, that the judgment of the said court for the correction
of errors should be, and the same is reversed ; and that this
cause be remanded to the said court for correction of errors,
with directions to conform its judgment to this opinion."
The mandate issued in pursuance of this judgment having
been received by the court for the correction of errors, that
court declared and adjudged, "that a consul-general of the
king of Saxony is, by the constitution and law of the United
States, exempt from being sued in a state court ;" and did further adjudge and declare, " that the supreme court of the state
of New York is a court of general common law jurisdiction,
and that, by the laws of this state, this court [the court of
errors] has no jurisdiction, power or authority to reverse a
decision of the said supreme court for any error in fact, or any
other error than such as appears upon the face of the record and
proceedings of the said supreme court, and that no other errors
can be assigned, or regarded as a ground of reversal of a judgment of the said supreme court, than such as appear upon the
record and proceedings of the said supreme court, and which
relate to questions which have actually been brought before
the justices of that court for their decision thereon, by a plea
to the jurisdiction of the court, or otherwise ; and that this
court was not authorised to notice the allegations of the said
Charles A. Davis assigned for error in this court, that he was
consul-general of the king of Saxony, or to try the truth of the
said allegation, or to regard the said allegation as true ; and
that, by the laws of this state, the replication of the defendant
to an assignment of errors, that there is no error in the reVOL. VIt.-2 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]

cord and proceedings aforesaid, or in the giving of the judgment of the supreme court, was not an admission of any matter
assigned as error in fact, or which was net properly assignable
as no error upon the
for error in this court ; and that if there wx
face of the record and the proceedings in the supreme court,
the defendant in error was entitled to a judgment of affirmance,
according to the laws of this state ; any matter assiguned for
error in fact, to the contrary notwithstanding. And it is furtier declared and adjudged, that by the laws of this state, if
there be any error in a judgment of the said supreme court, or
in the proceeding, which is properly assignable for error in fact,
the party aggrieved by such error may sue out a writ of error
coram vobis, returnable to the said supreme court, upon which
the plaintiff in error may assign errors in fact. And if such
eriors in fact are admitted, or are found to be true by the verdict of a juty, upon an issue joined thereon, the said supreme
court may revoke their said judgment ; and that for any error
in the judgment of the said supreme court, upon the said writ
of error corati vobis, this court has jurisdiction and authority,
upon a writ of error to the said supreme court, to'review the
said last mentioned judgment, and to give such judgment in
the premises as the said supreme court ought to have given.
It is therefore the opinion of this court that, although tie said
Charles A. Davis, the plaintiff inerror in this cause, might
have been the consul-general of the king of Saxony, and, as
such, was not liable to be sued in the state court, yet inasmuch
as the fact that lie was such consul, no where appeared in the
record of the judgment of the said supreme court, the defendant
in error is entitled to the judgment of this court, affirming the
judgment of the said supreme court. But the defendant in
error, having, upon the filing of the said mandate of the said
supreme court of the United States, applied to this court to dismiss the writ of error to the said supreme Court of this state,
it is therefore ordered and adjudged, that the last mentioned
writ oforror be quashed ; and it is further ordered and adjudged,
that the defendants in error recover against the plaintiff in error
their costs, &c."
This judgment also has been brought before this court by
writ of error, and it has been argued, that the mandate on tile

JANUARY TERM 1834.

323

[Davis v. Packard et al.]

former judgment has been disregarded, and that, consequently,
this second judgment ought to be reversed.
The court has felt great difficulty on this question. The
importance of preserving uniformity in the construction of the
constitution, laws and treaties of the United States, must be
felt by all ; and the impracticability of maintaining, this uniformity, unless the power of supervising all judgments in which
the constitution, laws or treaties of the United States may be
drawn into question, be vested in some single tribunal, is too
apparent for controversy. The people of the United States
have vested that power in this tribunal, and its highest duty is
to exercise it. with fidelity. The point of difficulty in this case
is to decide, whether the legitimate exercise of this power has
been obstructed by the judgment of the court of errors of
New York, now under consideration.
It is not to be admitted, that the court whose judgment has
been reversed or affirmed, can re-judge that reversal or affirmance ; but it must be conceded, that the court of dernier resort
in every state, decides upon its own jurisdiction, arid upon the
jurisdiction of all the inferior courts to which its appellate
power extends. Assuming these propositions as judicial axioms, we will inquire whether the judgment of the court of
errors for the state of New York is in violation of the mandate
of this court.
The original judgment of the court of errors, which was
.brought before this court, Was reversed in terms. This reversal
was not to depend upon any act to be performed, or opinion
to be given by the court of errors ; but stood absolute by the
judgment of this court. So is the law, and so was the judgment rendered by this court. Its language, after expressing
the opinion that Charles A. Davis, being consul-general of the
king of Saxony, exempted hin from being sued in a state
coutt, is, " therefore it is considered, ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said court for the correction
of errors be, and the same is hereby reversed." On filing the
mandate there, the said judgment stood reversed.
Neither the judgment nor mandate of this court, prescribed,
in terms, the judgment which should be rendered by the court
oi errors of New York. This court proceeded to order, that the
cause be remanded to the said court for the correction of errors,

SUPREME COURT.
(Davis v. Packard et al.]

with directions to conform its judgment to the opinion of this
court. The opinioii expressed therein was, that Charles A.
Davis, being consul-general of the king of Saxony, exempted
him from being sued in the state court.
The judgment rendered in the court of eirors being thus reversed, because of this exemption, it was for the court of errors
to inquire and decide in what manner it should conform its
judgment to this opinion. Had that court re-entered its former judgment, the direct opposition of this proceeding to the
mandate, would have been apparent. But this was not done.
The court of error admitted the exemption of Charles A: Davis
from being sued in the courts of a state ; but added, that the
fact did not appear in the record of the proceedings of the supreme court of New York ; and that its own power did not
extend to the reversal of any judgment of that court, for an
error of fact not apparent on the face of the re ord, though it
should be assigned as error in the court for the correction of
errors.
This could only be effected, regularly, by suing out a writ of
error coram vobis, in the supreme court of the state, whose
judgment on that writ might be revised in the court for the
correction of errors.
The court also added its opinion, that the detnudant in error
was entitled to its judgment affirming that of the supreme court,
but did not give the judgment of affirmance. Upon filing the
mandate, the counsel for the defendant in-error moved the court
to dismiss the writ of error to the supreme court of the state,
and the court ordered it to be quashed.
The judgment of the court of errors then affirming the judgment of the supreme court of the state, stands reversed, and
the writ of error to that judgment is quashed, leaving the de..
fondant, in the original action, at full liberty to sue out and
prosecute his writ of error coram vobis, for its reversal in the
supreme court of New York.
If the jurisdiction of the court fbr the correction of errors does
not, according to the laws by which the judicial system of
New York is oiganised, enable that court to notice errors in fact
in the proceedings of the supreme court, not apparent on the
face of the record, it is difficult to perceive how that court
could conform its judgment to that of this court, otherwise than

JANUARY TERM 1834.

325

[Davis v. Packard et at.]

by quashing its writ of error to tire supreme court. Had that
been its original judgment, it is not believed that this court
would have reversed it ; and we do not think that as now rendered, it can be held to be erroneous.
The judgment is affirmed with costs.

This cause carie on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the court for the correction of errors of the state of
New York, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that there is no error in
the judgment of the said court for the correction of errors of the
state of New York, quashing the writ of error from the supreme court of judicature of New York ; whereupon it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the said judgmenit of
the said court for the correction of errors be, and tbe same is
hereby affirmed with costs.

