JANUARY TERM 1834.

REUBEN WItHERS, APPELLANT V. JOHN WITHERs, APPELLEE.

Partnbrship. Construction of artieles of co-partnership, as they related to the
expenses of the co-partners.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Alexandria in the District of Columbia.
The case, as stated in the opiniorr of the court, was as follows:
This case comes up on appeal from the circuit court of the
United States for the county of Alexandria, in the district of
Columbia.
The bill filed by the appellee in the court below, alleges,
thaf, on or about the 7th of March 1815, the parties to this suit
entered into co-partnership, as merchants in trade, in the
town of Alexandria, under the firm and style of J. and R.
*Withers. That-4he complainant, John Withers, was to furnish to the firm fifteen thousand dollars, and to receive-threefourths of the profits of the business; and the defendant,
Reuben Wilhers, was to furnish five thousand dollars, and
receive one fourth of the profits; and in case of loss, it was to
be borne in the same proportion, and that each party was to
pay his own individual expenses. That the business wasq
continued, upon the same terms and conditions, in all respects
(the name and style of the firm having been changed to that
of John Withers & Co.), until the 13th of December 1819,
when it was dissolved by mutual consent, and upon certain
terms, which need not be here stated. The bill-then alleges
that the complainant, never having received a satisfactory accotunt of the disbursements and transactions of the defendant
whilst in New Yor'k, as a member of the firm, they were excepted out of the settlement of the partnership concerns, and
the defendant agreed to render a true, full and just account of
all his purchases and transactions in New York, as a member
of the said firm, and that he should be exclusively liable for all
debts and engagements which he might have contracted or
made in the name of said firm, and for which they had not

356

SUPREME COURT.
[Withers v. Withers.]

received full benefit. And the bill charges that the defendant
had failed and neglected to render such acount, and prays
that an account may be taken of such disbursements, dealings
and transactions; and that the defendant may be decreed to
pay over to the complainant what, if any thing, upon the taking
of suchaccount, may be found due to him.
The defendant, in his answer, admits the partnership was
entered into upon the terms and conditions stated in the bill,
and avers that he regularly transmitted to the house at Alexandria invoices of all goods purchased in New York, and that
the same were entered on the books of the firm, which are in
the possession or under the control of the complainant. The
defendant admits that it was stipulated in the articles of copartnership that each party was to pay his own individual
expenses, which, as he alleges, was meant and intended to
apply when the parties were at home, and not travelling ol
the business of the firm. And he expressly avers that all the
funds put into his hands were well and faithfully applied to
'he objects for which they were remitted and received. The
lefendant also admits, that upon the dissolution of the partnership, he did agree to render a full, true and just account of
all his purchases and transactions in New York, as a member
of and on account of said firm, and to be liable for all debts
and engagements which he may have entered into (if any)
on account of said firm, and for which the said firm may not
have received full benefit and advantage. And avers that he
has fully complied with his engagement to render such account, and submitted. the same for examination ; and that the
account, when examined and corrected, was balanced, as he
thinks, on the books of the company, which are in the possession or under the control of the complainant. And that
there is nd klebt due in the city of New York or elsewhere
from the said firm, contracted by him, the defendant ; but that
every such debt, ontract or engagement, so far as he knows
or believes, has been paid off, satisfied and discharged.
The cause afterwards being set down for hearing, was, on
motion of the complainant, referred to a commissioner, to state
and settle the partnership accounts between the parties.
Upon the coming in of the report of the commissioner, sundry
exceptions were taken, and argued, by counsel; all of which

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Withers v. Withers.]

were overruled by the court except one, which related to the
defendant's charge for his expenses in New York, amounting
to one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six dollais. The
exception to this charge was allowed, and the cause referred
back to the commissioner, with directions to allow the defendant his reasonable travelling expenses to and from New York,
and the necessary difference between the expense of living at
New York and at Alexandria.
The case was argued by Mr Neal, for the appellant; and
by Mr Key, for the appellee.
Mr Neal claimed to reverse the decree of the circuit court,
because the expenses of the appellant in New York,/vhile engaged in the business of the firm, had not been allowed.
On this point he cited, 16 Johns, Rep. 15; 1 Atk. 7, 8; 3
Atk. 176 ; Domat. Civil Law 155, 158, 159, art. 9, 11, 12;
1 Swanston's Rep. 465; 1 Peters 383.
The expenses were clearly chargeable to the firm, but if
they were not, there was a subsequent ratification of the
charge. Cited, 9 Cranch 155, 160'; 7 Cranch 92 ; 2 Hen.
and Munf. 544; 4 Hen. and Munf. 273.
The bill and answer did not put these expenses in issue, and
will not warrant the decree. Cited: 4 Munf. 273 ; 6 Johns.
Cases in Err. 559; 7 Peters 130; Harrison's Chancery 299.
Mr Key, contra:
The bill is for an account by one partner against another.
The agreement set out in the answer is the only evidence of
it. He conitended that the agreement gave no claim to the
expenses. The appellant would have been subject to expenses
had he remained in Alexandria, which would not have been
a charge to the firm ; those incurred in New York should be
on the same footing.
Mr Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question in relation to the expenses of the appellants
in New York being the only one now in controversy between
the parties, t is unnecessary to notice the proceedings in any
other respect.

SUPREME COURT.
[Withers v. Withers.]

The -rule laid down by the coul't'in their direction to the
commissioner, we think was entirely correct. The articles of
copartnership are not in the record. But the allegation in the
bill, and the admission in the answer, touching the agreement
between the parties in relation to their expenses, do not mate.rially differ. The bill alleges that each party was to pay his
own individual expenses. The answer to this allegation is,
that although it was stipulated in the articles of copartnership
that each party was to pay his own individual expenses, yet the
same was meant and intended to apply when the parties were
at home, and not travelling on the business of the concern.
This was substantially the construction adopted by the court
below, and which we think is the fair and reasonable interpretation of the argument, even standing alone upon the complainant's own statement. It was manifestly-intended to apply
to private or family expenses, not connecte] with the business
of the partnership. Butit would be an unjust and forced construction of the stipulation, to extend it to extra expenses
incurred when abl'oad on the business of the partnership. The
-!iipulation in the memorandum'of the 13th of December 1819,
upon the dissolution of the partnership, does not embrace this
item of expenses. The defendant, Reuben Withers, covenants
to render a full, true, and just account to the firm, of all his
purchases and tiansactions in New Yotk, as a member of, or
for and on account of the said firm; and to be liable for alF
debts or engagements which he may have entered into, (if any)
on account of said house, and for which the said firm may not
have received full benefit and advantage. The disbursements
of the 'defendant for his personal expenses cannot, with any
propriety, be considered a debt or engagement, within the
meaning of this- stipulation. It was obviously intended to
protect the complainant fiom all liability for any outstanding
,claims for goods purchased in New York, and for which the
firm had not received the full benefit and advantage.
The cause was afterwxards referred back to the commissioner,
to reform his report totching these expenses, according to the
rule laid down by the court, viz. to allow the defendant his
reasonable travelling expenses to and from New York, and the
necessary difference between the expense of living at New
York and at Alexandria. -Upon the coming in of the commiss-

JANuARY TERM 1634.
[Withers v. Withers.]

loner's report, an exception was filed, but overruled by the
court, and a final decree entered against the defendant.
The exception taken to the report was in these words:
"The defendan excepts to this report, because it is contrary
to evidence, and for other reasons, to be stated more particularly at the hearing."
The record only states generally that the exception was overruled. This does not warrant the conclusion that it was overruled for defect, or insufficieney in point of form. For if this
had been the ground of objection, itmight have been, and
doubtless would have been amended. The latter branch of
the exception may be objectionable. But the exception that
the report was contrary to evidence, is good in point of form ;
and we must presurne that the court overruled it upon the
merits, or, in other words, decided that the report was not contrayy to the evidence ; and in this w- think the court erred.
The commissioner, in his first report, had allowed the defendant, for his expenses in New York, one thousand seven hundred and fifty~six dollars, because the charges were entered in
the books of the company, of which entries all the parties were
considered by him as having full knowledge. This undoubtedly is the prima facie presumption; and if the complainant
knew *of the entries, and made no objection, his assent to
their allowance would fairly be presumed. But the evidence
in the cause is sufficient to rebut this presumption. John
Washington, who was a clerk employed by the firm, swears
that he was intimately acquainted with the concerns of the
co-partnership, and with their mode of transacting business.
That John Withers attended mostly to what is called the out
door business, and did not attend to the books of the firm.
That he has good reason to -believe, and does verily believe,
that he was entirely ignorant of the state of the books between
himself and co-paftire.
That he never attended to or examined the books. That on his showing him an entry of nine
hundred dollirs, on account of those expenses, he said they
were incorrect, and contrary to their agreement: and before the
dissolution of the partnership, he objected to all the defendant's charges for expenses. This, as far as negative evidence
can go, shows that the complainant was ignorant of the entries
in the books, and ought not to be concluded by them.

SUPREME COURT.
[Withers v. Withers.]

The commissioner, in his last report, has estimated the
defendant's expenses in New York at one dollar per day;
whereas the positive proof, by the testimony of Gordon' Miller,
is, not only that the customary charge for board at the house
where the defendant boarded was ten dollars and eighty-seven
cents per week, but that the defendant actually paid that sum,
exclusive of extra fire at fifty cents per day. But there is no
evidence showing the time be had an extra fire, or what he
paid therefor. The report, therefore, cannot be said to be
against evidence as to this item. But with respect to .the
allowance for board, the report is clearly against the evidence.
The decree of the court below must accordingly be reversed,
and the cause sent back, with directions to reform the report
of the commissioner, so as to allow the defendant at the rate
of ten dollars and eighty-seven cents a week for his expenses
in New York, instead of one dollar per day.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
considered, ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to the said
court to reform the report of the commissioner, so as to allow
the defendant at the rate of ten dollars and eighty-seven cents
per week for his expenses in New York, instead of one dollar
per day.

