JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. WALTER JONES,
ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF BENJAMIN G. ORR.
0. made a contract with the government to supply the troops of the United
States with rations within a certain district, and executed a bond and contract agreeably to the usages of the war department. The United States
brought an action against 0. on the bond, and gave in evidence the contract annexed to the bond, and a treasury statement, which showed a balance against 0. The United States also gave in evidence another transcript to prove that 0., under a previous account, had been paid a balance
of nineteen thousand one hundred and forty-nine dollars and one cent,
stated to be due to him, which was paid to his agent, under a power of
attorney, and the receipt for the same indorsed on the back of the account.
The circuit court instructed the jury, that the second transcript was not
evidence, per se, to establish the items charged to 0.
Held: That there was no error in this instruction. The counsel for the United States also gave in evidence the power of attorney to R. Smith, and his receipt, prove~d by Smith, that the money received
by him, under the said power of attorney, was applied to the credit of 0.
in the Bank of the United States at Washington; which payment the
witness supposed was made known to 0., though he c'uld not speak positively on the subject, as he did not communicate the information to him.
And the counsel who offered this evidence stated, that he offered it to show
that the accounts between 0. and the governrent, under the contract of
the 15th of January 1817, had been settled up to that time, and that the
balance of nineteen thousand one hundred and forty-nine dollars and one
cent had been paid to Smith, as the agent of 0., and that lie offered the
evidence for no other purpose. The counsel for the United States then
gave in evidence to the jury, a subsequent account between 0. and the
government, under the contract. And, on the prayer of the defendant,
the circuit court instructed the jury, "!that the said accounts were not competent per se, upon which to charge the defendant or his intestate for any
sums therein contained, further than the mere payment of money from the
treasury to the said intestate, or to his authorised agent."
By the court: The items embraced by this instruction were charges made
against 0. for the acts of certain persons, alleged to be his agents, without
annexing to the transcript copies of any papers showing their agency, or
offering any proof that they acted under the authority :f 0. : the circuit
court, therefore, properly instructed the jury, that the transcript, per so, did
not prove these items.
The plaintiffs then proved by R. S. that he received, as the agent of 0. six
thousand three hundred and fifty dollars and ninety-nine cents, on warrant
No. 5471, under the contract, and that the same was applied to the credit of
0. in the Bank of the United States, at Washington, of which payment the
witness believed 0. had notice. The counsel for the plaintiffs stated, that
they confined their claim to the above item, which %vasthe first one charged

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]
in the treasury account exhibited. The counsel for the defendant then
moved the court to instruct the jury, that this account, as also the precedL
ing one offered in evidence by the plaintiffs, was evidence for the defendant,
for the items of credits contained in either ; and that in claiming them, he
did not admit the debits; which instruction was given by the court and to
which an exception was taken.
By the court: This instruction involves the same question which has already
been decided, between the same parties, at the present term. There was
no error, in giving the instruction.
In the further progress of the.trial, the plaintiffs offered to withdraw from
the jury the said two accounts mentioned in the preceding exception, and
all the evidence connected with said accounts, to which the defendant's
counsel objected, and the court refused the motion.
By the court: A treasury account which contains credits as well as debits, is
evidence for the defendant as well as the government', and unless there be
an abandonment of the suit by the counsel for the government, it has no
right to withdraw from the jury, any part of the credits relied on by the
defendant.
The circuit court, on the prayer of the defendant, instructed the jury, that the
transcript from the books and proceedings of the treasury, can only be regarded as establishing such of the items of debit, in .heaccount stated in the
said transcript, as are for moneys disbursed through the ordinary channels
of the treasury department, where the trausactions are shown by its books,
and where the officers of the department must have had official knowledge
of the facts stated: but that the transcript is evidence for the defendant of
the fell amount of the credits therein stated ; and that, by relying on the
said transcript, as evidence of such credits, the defendant does not admit
the correctness of any of the debits in the said account, of which the transcript is not, per se, evidence; and that the said transcript is not, per se, evidence of any of the items of debit thereiin stated, except the first.
By the court: The 'orrectness of the principle laid down by the circuit court
in this instruction, has been Xrecognised by this court, in a case between the
same parties, at the present term.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the
county of Washington in the District of Columbia.
This was an action of debt instituted by the plaintiffs in error
against the defendant's intestate Benjamin G. Orr and two
others, on a joint and several bond to the United States, dated
15th January 1817, in the penalty of forty thousand dollars,
conditioned that the intestate, Orr, should fulfil certain articles
of agreement of the same date, made between the acting secretary of war and the intestate, by which the intestate agreed to
supply the rations required for the use of the United States
troops, within the limits of the states of South Carolina and
Georgia, from the 1st of June 1817, to the 31st of May 1818,
inclusive.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.)

The defendant, after oyer of the bond and condition and of
the articles of agreement, pleaded performance, according to
the true intent and meaning of the condition of -the bond.
The plaintiffs replied that the said Benjamin G.
Orr did not
well and truly perform and fulfil the covenants and agreements
comprised and mentioned in the articles of agreement referred
to in the said condition of the said writing obligatory, but
broke the said covenants and agreements in the following instances, to wit:
That although the said United States did advance and furnish to the said Benjanin G. Orr divers large sums of money,
at divers times, on account of, and to enable him, the said
Benjamin, to carry into effect the said articles of agreement,
which said several sums of money amounted altogether to
the sum of one hundred and nine thousand five hundred dollars: and although the accounts of the said Benjamin G. On', in
relation to the articles of agreement aforesaid, have been duly
and finally settled by the accounting officers of the government of the United States; and, upon the"'said settlement,
there was found to be due to the United States, from the said
Benjamin, the sum of two thousand and twelve dollars and
thirty-three cents, of which the said Benjamin had due notice:
Yet the said Benjamin altogether failed to pay to the United
States the said sum of money, or any part thereof, and the
same remains still due and unpaid to the said United States.
The defendant rejoined that the said Orr did not break the
condition in manner or form; and upon these pleadings issue
was joined. In December 1831, the cause was tried, and a
verdict, under the charge of the court, was rendered for the
plaintiff, upon which judgment was entered.
On the trial of the cause, the counsel for the United States
gave in evidence the bond executed by the said Orr, with the
condition thereto annexed, dated 15th of January 1817; a contract between the said Orn and George Graham, acting secretary of war, for the supply and issue of all the rations for the
use of the troops of the United States, within the limits of the
states of' South Carolina and Georgia, including that part of
the Creek lands lying within the territorial limits of Georgia,
thirty days notice being given of the post or place where rations
.-may be wanted, or the number of troops to be furnished on

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones,]

their march, from the 1st day of June 1817 until the 31st day
of May 1828 inclusive, for prices fixed in the contract; and an
account current stated and settled by the accounting officers of
the treasury, between the United States and the defendant's
intestate, on the 18th of August 1820, upon which a balance
was due, amounting to two thousand and twelve dollars and
thirty cents.
The plaintiffs' counsel also gave in evidence a previous account, dated May 11, 1.819, stated by the proper accounting
officers of the treasury, for the purpose of proving that the
balance of nineteen thousand one hundred and forty-nine
dollars and one cent, which appeared to be due to him, had
been paid to him or his agent; and produced the power of attorney, and the receipt on the back of the said account.
Annexed to the transcript from the treasury containing the
account, was the following letter.
Washington, 6th ,May 1819.
to pay to R. Smith, Esq. any sun
Sir: I will thank
which may be found due me on my late Georgia contract, to
the amount of, or within the limit of twenty-five, thousand
dollars, which will cover the interest which has accrued upon
the drafts heretofore conditionally accepted of, as well as the
principal, and oblige,
Yours, &c.
BENJAMIN G. ORR.
To the Honourable the Secretary at War,
or person acting for him.
On the hack of the transcript was the following receipt.
Received, May 14, 1819, warrant numbered 3944, for
$19,149 01, in full of the within account.
Among other debits in the account were the following:
1817. To accoutnt transferred from the bboks of the second
auditor, for this sum, standing to his debit on those of this
office.,-$15,000.
1817. Sept. 19, for warrant No. 972, for payment of his
draft, favour R. Smith, dated 22d July 1817, on account of do.
o20,000.
1817.- Nov. 6, for warrant No. 1219, for payment of his.
draf'tfavour R. Smith, da ted 20h September 1817, on account
of do.--7-$12,000.

JANUARY TERM ISA
[United States v. Jones.]

1819. May 14, to warrant of the treasurer, No. 3944, for
this sum, paid R. Smith, per order of B. G. Orr-$19,149 01.
And the defendant thereupon prayed the court that the said
account last mentioned, was not evidence per se that certe?:n
charges in said accourit were correctly chargeable to the said
contractor; which opinion the court gave; to which opinion
tie counsel for the plaintiffs excepted.
The court charged the jury that the accounts produced in
evidence by the United States were evidence for the defendant
of all the items of credit therein contained ; and that the defendant, by referring to and relying on them as evidence for
that purpose, did not admit the correctness of any of the debits
therein of which the account was not per se evidence, nor make
the same evidence before the jury.
To these instructions the plaintiffs excepted.
The plaintiffs prosecuted this-writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Butler, attorney-general, for the
United Stats; and by Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the defendant.
For the United States, it was contended, that the judgment
of the circuit couit ought to be reversed for the following reasons.
I. The account stated was, under the acts of congress, and
the provisions of the contract, competent evidence to charge
the defendant1st. With all the items of charge therein contained; and if
not, then:
2d. It was, at all events, sufficient to charge him with the
moneys received on the various warrants specified in the account.
II. The court erred in its decision on the second point above
stated1st. The account was one entire document, and- the defendant, if he elected to rely on any part thereof, was bound,
by the general rules of evidence, to ,take the whole as evidence, so far as it was pertinent to the subject matter of the
suit.
2d. There is the more reason for adhering to the general

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

rule in this case, because the account was stated by a public
officer, to whom, by law, and by the contract of the parties,
the duty of settling the accounts in question was to be referred.
The Attorney-General argued, that the treasury statement
exhibited and read in evidence on the trial of the cause, ought
to have been admitted as prima facie eviaence of the balance
due to the United States. Large sums were admitted to have
been received by Orr; and this was sufficient to authorise the
admission of other items in the accounts, not included in those
-Bums. These items were charges, in some instances, for
sums paid on warrants drawn in favour of the contractor, and
in others, for sums paid also on warrants, in favour of other
persons under his authority.
He cited the acN of congress relative to the settlement of
public accounts. Act of 1792, 2 Laws U. S.303; Act of 1797,
2 Laws U. S. 594; Act of 1795, 2 Laws U. S. 502 ; Act of July
16, 1798,3 Laws U. S. 114; Act of 3 March 1817,6 Laws U. S.
By the act of 1817, all accounts for army supplies are to be
settled at the treasury department, and the third auditor is
particularly charged with the settlement of army accounts.
This act refers to the law of 1799, and adopts it as applying to
accounts to be settled by the third auditor; and the law of 1797
makes the books and proceedings of the treasury evidence.
The auditor had a right to charge the defendant's intestate
for warrants drawn in favour of other persons on his contract.
He was bound, and had authority to inquire, whether the advances were made on the contract, and by his order. He
must have had evidence of the money having been drawn by
such order.
The transcript was certainly evidence, and was so admitted;
and the whole question in the court below was as to the effect
of that evidence. If it was evidence of money paid to Orr
himself, it must be evidence of money paid to others by his
order.
The vouchers for the payment to Richard Smith, of nineteen
thousand one hundred and forty-nine dollars and one cent,
must have been left in the office, and have been the authority
on which the payment is made. The warrant for the account

JAN. TARY TERM 1834.

393

[United States v. Jones.]

must have shown the authority by which the money was paid,
and this was apparent upon it, viz. the orders in favour of
Richard Smith and others.
It could not have been the exclusive object of the act of
congress making the transcript evidence to supersede the necessity of producing the original books.
The whole sums charged in the account growing out of
the warrants, stand on the same ground, and come within
the ordinary official action of the auditor; and the whole account, thus entered, should have been admitted as proved,
prima facie.
The Attorney-General referred to the case of the United
States v. Buford, 3 Peters 12, and contended that the principles laid down by the court in that case had no application to
the present question.
Upon the second exceptidn, it was argued, that the permission to use a part of the account in: his favour, by the defendant,
and yet to deny that the other parts of the same account
were evidence against him, was contrary to the established
rules of evidence. Cited : 1 Wash. C. C. R. 344; Bell v.
Davidson, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 328. The whole transcript was
one paper, and all its contents should have been taken together.
Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, contra:
The principles involved in this case are of general importance. In the cases of The United Staies v. Fillebrown, 7
Peters 28 ; Thaa United States v. M'Daniel, 7 Peters 1, and
The United States v. Ripley, 7 Peters 18, the same questions
were under examination. The decisions of the court in these
cases are decisive upon the matters now presented for their consideration.
The transcript was admitted as competent evidence, but the
question was as to the effect of the evidence: what, did it
prove ? The act of congress of 1797 makes the treasury
transcripts evidence; but this was for the purpose, only, of substituting the transcripts for the original books and accounts of
the treasury.
The books, if produced, would only be evidence of the
money paid on the warrant, which is very special; and the
receipt is given on the warrant, which receipt authorises the
VOL. VII-.2 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

charge against the party to whom the money was paid. But
it furnishes no evidence to charge any other person. The
authority given by Orr to some person to receive money, is not
a proceeding at the treasury, or to be proved by a transcript.
Cited: The United States v. Buford, 3 Peters 29,6 Peters 172,
201 ; also, the case of Randolph, decided by Mr Chief Justice
Marshall and Judge Barbour, in Virginia, in 1833.
The balance of the account transferred from the books of the
second auditor, cannot be proved by its entry in the transcript.
The transcript of the account should have been produced, and
it could be seen from it, which part of the sum claimed as the
balance, was proved by it. Its introduction in this form as
an item of debit can have no effect.
As to the second exception. The general rule of evidence
which obliges a party who introduces a piece of evidence, to
take the whole together, is distinguishable from the rule
which sanctions the claim of the defendant to the credits in
the account, without admitting the debits. In this case, the
plaintiff introduced the account. It contained the admissions
of the United States, that the defendant was entitled to certain credits. They had been established by vouchers, which
were retained by the treasury department. The defendant
had a right to call upon the treasury department for a list of
these credits, without their being connected with an account
containing charges against him. They are not conditional
credits, or such as the United States allowed in the event of
the debits being admitted. They are independent and absolute charges against the United States, and have no other
connection with the debits against the defendant, than that
they arose out of the same transaction.
The exception allowed by Judge Washington, in the circuit
court of Pennsylvania, (Bell v. Davidson, 3 Wash. C. C. R.
328) was the principle claimed for the defendant.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was originally brought by the plaintiffs, against

Benjamin G. Orr, who has since deceased, in the circuit court
of the United States for the District of Columbia, to recover the
balance of a treasury settlement, charged against him on.the
books of the treasury department. At the trial, several excel-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

tions were taken to the instruction of the court to the jury,
and those exceptions are brought before this court, for their
decision, by a writ of error.
On the 15th of January 1817, Orr made a contract with the
government, to supply the troops of the United States with
rations, &c. within a certain district, and executed a bond and
contract, agreeably to the usages of the war department, in
such cases.
The action was brought upon the bond, and at the
trial, the
plaintiffs gave in evidence the contract annexed to the bond,
and a treasury statement, which showed a balance against
Orr of two thousand and twelve dollars and thirty-two cents.
And the plaintiffs also gave in evidence another transcript,
in order to prove that Orr, under a previous account with the
United States, had been paid a balance of nineteen thousand
one hundred and forty-nine dollars and one cent, stated to be
due to him, which was paid to his agent, under a power of
attorney, and the receipt for the same was indorsed on the back
of the account. And the court, on the prayer of the defendant, instructed the jury, that this second transcript was not
evidence, per se, to establish all the items charged to the
defendant; to which instri ction the plaintiffs excepted.
The item principally objected to, was paid to Richard Smith,
as the agent of Orr. In proof of this agency, the following
letter was relied on, and which was annexed to the transcript.
"Washington, 6th May 1819. Sir: I will thank
to pay to
R. Smith, Esquire, any sum which may be found due me on
my late Georgia contract, to the amount of, or within the
limit of twenty-five thousand five hundred dollars, which will
cover the interest which has accrued upon the drafts heretofore
conditionally accepted of, as well as the principal ; and oblige
yours, &c." Signed "Benjamin G. Orr," and directed to the
secretary of war.
On the back of the transcript was indorsed the following
receipt, "Received, May 4th 1819, warrant numbered 3944,
for nineteen thousand one hundred and forty-nine dollars and
one cent, in full of the within' account. Signed, Richard
Smith."
Orr's contract commenced on the 1st day of June 1817, and
terminated on the 31st day of May 1818.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

It appears, therefore, that at the time the above order was
given to Smith, the contract of Orr had expired nearly a year.
The order requested the secretary of war to pay any sum that
might be due on the contract, not exceeding a specified amount.
Under this authority the government could not pay to Smith,
so as to charge Orr, a larger sum than was due on his contract. It was neither the expectation of Smith to receive, nor
the intention of Orr to pay a greater amount than was due on
his contract; and for any payment beyond this, the government
must look to the agent, and not to Orr, for repayment.
It therefore appears that the circuit court did not err in their
instruction, above stated, to the

jury.

The counsel for the United States, in addition to the above
transcript, the power of attorney to Smith, and his receipt,
proved, by Smith, that the money received by him under the
said power of attorney, was applied to the credit of Orr, in the
Bank of the United States, at Washington ; which payment,
the witness supposed was made known to Orr, though he
could not speak positively on the subject, as he did -not communicate the information to him.
And the counsel who offered this evidence stated, that he
offered it to show that the accounts between Orr and the government, under the contract of the 15th of January 1817, had
been settled up to that time, and that the balance of nineteen
thousand one hundred and forty-nine dollars and one cent had
been paid to Smith as the agent of Orr ; and that he offered
the evidence for no other purpose.
The counsel for the United States then gave in evidence to
the jury, a subsequent account between Orr and the government, under the above contract. And on the prayer of the
defendant, the court instructed the jury, "that the said accounts were not competent, per se, upon which to charge the
defendant or his intestate, for any sums therein contained, further than the mere payment of money froni the treasury to the
said intestate, or to his authorised agent."
The items embraced by this instruction were charges made
'against Orr for the acts of certain persons alleged to be his
agents, without annexing to the transcript copies of any papers showing their agency, or offering any proof that they acted
under the authority of Orr ; the circuit court, therefore, pro-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

perly instructed the jury, that the transcript, per se, did not
prove these items.
The plaintiffs then proved by Richard Smith, that he received, as the agent of Orr, six thousand three hundred and
fifty dollars and -ninety-nine cents, on warrant No. 5471,.
under the contract, and that the same was applied to the credit
of Orr, in the Bank of the United States at Washington, of
which payment the witness believed Orr had notice.
The counsel for the plaintiffs stated, that they confined
their claim to the above. item, which was the first one charged
in the treasury account marked A. And the counsel for the
defendant then moved the court to instruct the jury, that
this account, as also the preceding one offered in evidence by
the plaintiffs, was evidence for the defendant, for the items of
credits contained in either, and that in claiming them, he did
not admit the debits; which instruction was given by the court,
and to which an exception was taken.
This instruction involves the same question which has already been decided, between the same parties, at the present
term. There was no error in giving the instruction.
In the further progress of the trial, the plaintiffs offered to
withdraw from the jury the said two accounts mentioned in
the preceding exception, and all the evidence connected with
said accounts; to which the defendant's counsel objected ; and
the court refused the motion.
A treasury account which contains credits as well as debits,
is evidence for the defendant as well as the government; and,
unless there be an abandonment, of the suit by the counsel for
the government, it has no right to withdraw from the jury any
part of the credits relied on by the defendant.
The next and last instruction given by the court on the
prayer of the defendant, and to which the plaintiffs excepted,
was, "1that the said transcript A, from the books and proceedings of the treasury, can only be regarded as establishing
such of the items of debit, in the account stated in the said
transcript, as are for moneys disbuised through the ordinary
channels of the treasury department, where the transactions are
shown by its books, and where the officers of the department
must have had official knowledge of the facts stated ; but that
the transcript is evidence for the defendant of the full amount

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

of the credits there instated ; and that, by relying on the said
transcript, as evidence of such credits, the defendant does not
admit the correctness of any of the debits in the said account,
of which the transcript is not, per se, evidence ; and that the
said transcript is not, per. se, evidence of any'of the items of debit
therein stated, except the first."
The correctness of the principle laid down by the court, in
this instruction, has been recognised by this court, in a case
between the same parties, at the present term, as Pbove referred to.
As this court sanctions all the instructions of the circuit court
given to the jury, in this case, at the prayer of the defendant,,
and also in refusing to instruct on the prayer of the plaintiffs,
the judgment of the circuit court is, as a matter of course,
affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; 9n consideration whereof,. it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed.

399

JANUARY TERM 1834.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. WALTER JONES,
ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF BENJAMIN

G.

ORR.

THE SAME v. THE SAME.
A contract was made for the delivery of rations for the use of the troops of
the United States, "thirty days' notice being given of the post or place
where the rations may be wanted." In an action on a bond with sureties
for a balance claimed to be due to the United States by the contractor, the
United States introduced the testimony of a Mr Abbott, and proved by him,
that at the time when contracts were made for the supply of the United
States troops, the contractors (as he believed) were then informed of the
fixed posts within the limits of the contract, and the number of troops there
stationed; and that rations were to be regularly supplied by such contractor,
according to the number of troops so stationed at such places ; and that the
contractor was informed he was to continue so to do, without any other
notice so to do; and that special requisitions and notices of thirty days
would be made and given, for all other supplies at other places or posts,
and for any change in the quantity of supplies which might become necessary at the fixed posts, from a change in the number of troops stationed at
such fixed posts; and that such was the understanding at the war department, in settling the accounts of contractors. But he did not know of any
verbal explanation between the secretary of war and Orr on this subject,
specifying any thing more or less, than what the contract specified; and he
did not know that there had been any submission or agreement ofcontractors,
to such a construction of their contracts, but that such was the rule adopted
by the accounting officers, in settling the accounts of contractors. The
defendant, among other things, introduced evidence to show, that the contractor always insisted on the necessity of requisitions and notices, according to the terms of the contract, for supplies at all posts, before he could be
charged with a failure ; and also to show the custom of making requisitions,
and giving such notices for supplies at all posts where provisions were required, and without regard to their being old established posts, or new ones
established after the contract. After the whole evidence was closed, the
attorney for the United States prayed the court to instruct the jury, " that
it was competent for them to infer from the said evidence, that the contractor, in supplying the fixed posts as he had before done under his former
contract, and knowing thereby the number of rations there required, dispensed with any special requisition and notice, in relation to such supplies
to said posts; and in case of failure to supply such posts, according to
usage and knowledge, is liable,.under 'lie bond and contract upon which
The circuit court refused to give this instruction,
this action is founded."
and the question now is, whether it ought to have been given.
Held: that there was no error in the refusal of the circuit court to give the
instructions.
The sureties in the bond of a contractor, given to secure the performance of

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]
a contract for the supply of rations for the troops of the United States,
are not responsible for any balance in the hands of the contractor, at the
expiration of the contract, of advances*made to him, not on account of that
particular contract exclusively, but on account of that and other contracts,
as a common fund for supplies, where accounts of the supplies, the expenditures and the funds, had all been throughout blended indiscriminately
by both parties, and no separate portion had been designated, or set apart
for the contract of 1818.
To say that the sureties in the bond should be liable for the whole balance,
would be to say, that they should be liable for advances made under any
other contracts; and if not liable for the whole, the very case supposed in
the instruction precludes the possibility of any legal separation of the
items of the balance. Each and all of them are blended, per my et per tout,
as a common fund. The case indeed, in the principles which must govern
it, ranges itself under that large class of cases, where a party, bound for
the fidelity of a clerk or other agent of A, as keeper of his money or
accounts, is held not liable for acts done as the keeper of the money or
accounts of A and B. And in the present suit there is no difference in
point of law between the liability of the principal and that of the sureties
upon the bond. It is the same contract, as to both; and binds both or
neither. The United States are not, however, without remedy; for there
can be no doubt, that an action in another form would lie against the contractor for any balance, however received, which remained unexpended in
his hands after the termination of the service for which the advances were
made.
The receipts of the contractor, for moneys paid to him by the United States,
are prima facie evidence that the money was received by him on account
of the contract, and it is incumbent, in action on the bond given with sureties for thd performance -of the contraci, for the parties to show that the
money was not paid on account of the contract as stated in the receipts,
but they are not bound to show that it was so stated by mistake or design
on the part of the government and the contractor, and intended to be
applicable to some other contract.
IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the distiict of Columbia.
The United States instituted actions of debt upon two
joint and several bonds, dated 9th February 1818, in the penal
sun of thirty-five thousand dollars, conditioned that Benjamin
G. Orr, his heirs, executors or administrators, or any of them,
shall and do in all things, well and truly, observe, fulfil, accomplish and keep all and singular the covenants, conditions
and agreements whatsoever, which, on the part and behalf of
the said Benjamin G. Orr, his heirs, executors or administrators,
are or ought to be observed, performed, fulfilled, accomplished
and kept, comprised or mentioned in certain articles of agreement or contract, bcaring date the 9th day of February 1818,

JANUARY TERM 183-1.
(United States v,Jones.]

made between John C. Calhoun, secretary of war, and the said
Benjamin G. Orr, concerning the supply of rations tothe troops
of the United States, within the state of Georgia, including
that part of the Creeks' land, lying within the territorial limits
of said state, according to the true intent, meaning and purport of the said articles of agreement or contract."
The defendant pleaded performance in all things to be done
and performed according to the tenor and effect of the condition
of the bond.
The replication states that the said Benjamin G. Orr, in the
said condition mentioned, did not well and truly perform and
fulfil the covenants and agreements comprised and mentioned
in the articles of agreement referred to in the said condition of
the said writing obligatory ; but broke the said covenants and
agreements in the following instances, to wit:
That, although thi said-United States did advance and furnish to the said Benjamin G. Orr divers large sums of money,
at divers times, on account of, and to enable him, the said
Benjamin, to carry into effect the said articles of agreement,
which said several sums of money amounted altogether to the
sum of
dollars:
And although the accounts of the said Benjamin G. Orr, in
relation to the articles of agreement aforesaid, have been duly
and finally settled by the accounting officers of the government
of the United States; and, upon the said settlement, there
was found to be due to the United States, from the said Benjamin, the sum of
dollars.
Upon this replication issue was joined, and a verdict and
judgment rendered in favour of the defendant; and in May
1831 the plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
The provisions in this contract, made by Benjamin G. Orr
and the plaintiffs, upon which the breaches were assigned on
the part of the United States, were the following:
1st. That the said Benjamin G. Orr, his heirs, executors,
or administrators, shall supply and issue all the rations, to consist of the articles hereinafter specified, that shall be required
of him or them, for the use of the United States, at all and
every plac6, or places where troops are or may be stationed,
marched, or recruited, within the limits of the state of Georgia,
including that paft of the Creeks' land lying within the terrivoL. viii.-3 A

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

torial limits of said state, thirty days' notice being given of the
post or place where rations may be wanted, or the number of
troops to be furnished on their march, from the 1st day of June
1818, until the 31st day of May 1819, inclusive.
3d. That supplies shall be furnished by the said Benjamin
G. Orr, his heirs, executors, or administrators, at the fortified
places and military posts that are or may be established in the
limits aforesaid, upon the requisition of the commandant of
the army or a post, in such quantities as shall not exceed what
is sufficient for the troops to be there stationed, for the space
of three months, in advance, in good wholesome provisions,
consisting of due proportion§ of all the articles forming the
ration.
5th. That the commanding general, or person appointed by
him, at each post or. place, in case of absolute failure or deficiency in the quantity of provisions contracted' to be delivered
and issued, shall have power to supply the deficiency by purchase, at the risk and on account of the said Benjamin G. Orr,
his heirs, executors, or administrators.
The breaches assigned were: that, although the United
States had advanced to Benjamin 0. Orr, at several times after
the execution of the contract, several sums of mohey amounting to eighty thousand dollars, on account of the contract and
agreement entered into by him, yet he had failed to furnish
and to supply to the said United States the rations which were
required to be furnished by him under the articles of agreement aforesaid, or in any manner to account with the said
United States for the said sums of money so advanced and furnished to him as aforesaid. And by reason of the said failure,
the United States were exposed to great inconvenience, and to
great and heavy losses, and were compelled to advance large
sums of money for the supply of the troops of the United States,
stating the several amounts advanced, and the places at which
the provisions were supplied.
. The United States further alleged and charged that the
accounts of the said Orr, in relation to the contract. aforesaid,
have beet duly settled by the accounting officers of the
government of the United States; and upon the said settlement, there was found to be due from the said Orr to the said
United States, the sum of forty-eight thousand three hundred

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

and eight dollars and forty-eight cents; and that the said Orr
had notice thereof.
Four bills of exceptions were tendered on the trial by the
plaintiffs, to the opinion of the court given in charge to the
jury, and were respectively sealed by the court.
The first, exception set out the evidence given on the part
of the United States, consisting of the bond and condition, the
contract entered into by Orr, the accounts stated and settled
in the proper departments of the government, showing the advances and payments 'of the sums of money to him, and
vouchers and documents in support of the same; and also,
evidence to show non-performances of the agreement to deliver the provisions to the troops of the United. States, at the
several posts within the district designated in the contract.
The account current stated by the accounting officers-of
the United States, charged the contractor, with three several
sums, amounting to eighty thousand dollars, as follows:
1818. Feb. 19, for part of warrant No. 1660, for the payment of his drafts in favour of Richard Smith, dated I1 th Feb.
1818, $55,00 ; March 6, for warrant No. 1733, received by
him on account, $15,000 ; July 2, for warrant No. 2262, received by him on account, $10,000-$80,000.
The account also contained other items of debit for the cost
and expenses of supplies furnished in consequence of the asserted failure of the contractor, amounting, with the advances
stated, to $106,957 19. Credits where allowed in the account
amounting to $58,648 71. Leaving a balance alleged to be
due to the United States of $48,308 48.
No proof was offered of any requisition or notice to the contractor for the supplies at the posts where the failures were
alleged to have occurred.
The plaintiffs showed, however, that on the 15th of January
1817, Benjamin G. Orr contracted to supply all rations required for the use of the United States troops within the limits
of South Carolina and Georgia, from the 1st day of June
1817, to the. 31st day of May 1818, inclusive ; and that in the
execution of, that contract, he had become acquainted with
the number of rations required at the fixed Posts ; and evidence was also offered to the jury, which was intended to
prove to their satisfaction on the one side, that the contractor

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

had dispensed wth any special requisition or notice, under the
last contract, and on the other, that he had always insisted on
the necessity of notice.
Upon the evidence so given, the counsel for the United
States prayed the court to instruct the jury, that it was competent for them to infer from the evidence, that the said Orr,
in supplying the fixed posts as he had before done, under his
former contract, and knowing thereby the number of rations
there required, dispensed. with any special requisition and notice in relation to such supplies- to said posts, and, in case of
failure to supply such posts according to usage and knowledge,
is liable, under the bond and contract upon which this action
is founded. Which last instruction the couit refused to give
in relation to any of the charges for failure, as aforesaid, being
of opinion that the United States weile not entitled, u-nder the
said contract, to charge the said Orr for the amount paid by
them for,provisions, upon any supposed case of absolute failure
or deficiency in the quantity of provisions contracted to be delivered and issued by the said Orr, unless such failure or deficiency took place after a r'equisition upon the said Orr, (or his
agent, duly authorized by him to receive such requisition)
made by the commandant of the army or a post, in case the
provisions were wanted for a fortified place or a military post;
and in no case, unless such failure or deficiency took place
after thirty days' notice had been given to him, or his said
agent, of the post or place where the rations were wanted, or
of the number of trodps to be furnished, in case the rations
were wanted for marching troops.
To this efusal the counsel of the United States excepted.
The defendant, after giving in evidence the documents and
vouchers in support of such of the additional credits claimed
by him as had been rejected and remarked upon by the third
auditor, contended, (upon the grounds stated in the foregoing

exception, and upon the authority of the court's said decision)
that all the items of charge, against said Orr in said official
accounts, under the contract of February 9, 1818, stated, except
the three advances from the treasury of fifty-five thousand
dollars, fifteen thousand dollars, and ten thousand dollars, first
charged, and insisted tpon the rejection of the same, and then
claimed to have set off against the said eighty thousaid d&lars,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

and to be allowed in this suit the several sums of money admitted to the credit of said Orr under said contracts for provisions furnished, and expenditures, upon abstracts and vouchers by him and his administrator exhibited to the third auditor,
and claimed as credited in said official accounts, disclaiming
and deducting frorp said credits all such as appeared to be
mere counter credits or cross entries dependant upon the cotresponding and contested charges in said accounts; and also
claimed the allowance of such of the said additional credits as
had been rejected and remarked on by the third auditor as
aforesaid. Whereupon the plaintiffs, by.their counsel, made
the following prayer to the court: That, as the defendant
has used the account exhibited by the plaintiffs, and have
.claimed the credits therein stated as allowed to the contractor,
from the jury, without offering any other evidence of their
claim to such credits, then the whole of said account is to
go to the jury, as well the charges as the credits in the said
account ; and if the defendant shall offer no evidence to impeach the items charged in the account, they are to be taken
as correct ; and that the defendant cannot rely on the account,
for his credits, without being bound by such entries of charge
as he may be unable to impeach.
Which instruction and opinion the court refused to give ; to
which refusal the attorney of the' United Slates excepted.
The defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury as follows : That if the jury find and believe from the evidence
aforesaid, that the three several advances from the war department to said Orr, in the said first account above charged, to
the amount of eighty thousand dollars, though appearing in
the receipts for the same as ma4e on account of this contract,
were nevertheless advanced under an arrangment and understanding between the government and said Orr, to which the
sureties in the bond now in suit were in no manner party or
privy, that the said sums of money were to be held by the
said contractor as a common fund of supplies, as well for the
forts and military posts in Florida, including the subsistence of
Indian prisoners there, as of the posts within the state of
Georgia and the Creek lands within the territorial limits of
that state, and to be indiscriminately applied to all or any of
both Georgia and Florida forts and military posts, upon .the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

terms and conditions of this contract, as if extended to the
Florida posts; and that the said contractor was accordingly
called on and required, in the execution of this contract, and out
of the general fund so advanced nominally under this contract,
to furnish subistence as well for the Florida posts, including
Indian prisoners there, as for the posts within the proper territorial limits of the contract, indiscriminately; 'and that both
branches of supply were blended in debits for alleged failures,
&c. and credits for supplies in the same official account of advances and expenditures under this contract, as kept at the
proper accounting departments of the treasury and war departnents, without there having been any specific part or portion of
the said advances designated and set apart for the two branches
of supply and subsistence, in Georgia and Florida respectively,
Then' the obligors in the bond nbw in 3uit, or any of them,
are not responsible in this action under the tenth article of
said contract, for the accounting and paying by said Orr of
any balance or surplus of the said advances remaining in his
hands unexpended at the time of the expiration of the term of.
said contract, in the execution of the said contract, and in the
supplies of subsistence therein stipulated for; whict's opinion
the court gave as prayed ; to which the United States excepted.
The attorney for the United States prayed the following
instruction.
That the receipts of Orr, offered in evidence, are prima
facie evidence that he received the eighty thousand dollars
under the contract on which this suit is brought, and that it
is incumbent on the defendant to satisfy the jury, by evidence,
that the said advances were not made under the said contract,
as stated in the said receipts, but that it was so stated by mistake
or design on the part of the government and said Orr, and intended
to be applicable to some other contract.
Which the court refused to give as prayed, but instructed
the jury that the receipts of Orr aforesaid, are prima facie evidence that he received the eighty thousand dollars under the
contract on which this suit ifbrought, and that it is incumbent
on the defendant to satisfy the jury, by evidence; that the said
advances were not made under the said contract as stated in
said receipts.
To which refusal the United States excepted.

JANUA.RY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

The case was argued by Mr Butler, attorney-general, for
the United States; and by Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the
defendant.
For the United States, it was contended, that the judgment
of the court below is erroneous, and ought to 'be reversed for
the following, among other reasons.
I. The first exception was well taken.
1. It was competent for the contractor to dispense with
notice-certainly so far as his own liability, which is the only
-question in the present suit, was-concerned-and there was
some evidence before the jury, from which such a waiver
might have been inferred.
2. The rule laid down by the court, and their refusal to
instruct as prayed, entirely withdrew that evidence from the
consideration of the jury.
II. The second exception was well tMken.
1. The account was one entire docgment, and the defendant, if he elected to rely on any part thereof, was bound, by
the general rules of evidence, to take the whole as evidence,
so far as it was pertinent to the subject matter of the suit.
2. There is the more reason for adhering to the general
rule in this case, because tile account was stated by a public
officer, to whom, by law, and by the contract of the parties,
the duty of settling the accounts in question, was to be referred.
III. Admitting the premises on which the instruction stated
in the third exception was given, to have been found by the
jury,' still the conclusion adopted by the court does not legally
follow; but the principal and his representatives may be held
accountable in this action, foi any balance remaining unexpended of moneys advanced in the manner suggested in said
exception.
IV. The whole instruction mentioned in the fourth exception, ought to have been given as prayed.
The Attorney-General stated, that the 'first question to be

examined was, whether the contractor could dispense with the
notice required tobe given to him, of the place where the raions
were to be delivered to him, under the first part of the con-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

tract. And secondly, whether there was evidence to show
that he had done so.
The sureties of the contractor have nothing to do with this
inquiry.
There is a distinction between the rights of the principal and
the sureties, in such a case as this. While the sureties might
claim not to be affeted by any waiver of the notice, and therefore object to evidence of such a waiver in a suit against them,
the principal can have no such right. This suit is on a joint
and several bond; and a recovery might be had against the
principal, although it could not, on the same evidence, be sustained against the sureties. The suit is against the contractor
Orr, and the rights of the sureties are not at all involved in it.
No suit has been instituted against the sureties.
The principal in a bond may be liable for the payment of
the sum due upon it, and yet the surety may not be responsible.
As where the surety is an infant, a judgment against the
principal would not affect him.
Although a judgment in favour of the principal in a bond,
may be evidence for a surety, it does not follow, that a judgment against the principal is evidence against a surety. Norris's
Peake 73. The undertaking of the surety is collateral ; and
if the principal is acquitted of his responsibility, that of the
surety is at an end for ever. While it is admitted, that the
construction to be given to the bond, is the same in an action
against the principal as against the surety, yet the evidence
which is admissible when the remedy is sought against the
principal, may be different.
It will not be denied, that so far as Orr was interested in
the consequences of a waiver of the notice, he could waive it.
The notice required in the contract, was a condition precedent ;
it was for the benefit of Orr, to prevent his being subjected to
the consequences of an unexpected demand for provisions, and
at a place where he had not prepared to deliver them, and did
not know before band they would be required at a particular
period. But, when from circumstances, previously within his
knowledge; from his having, under a previous contract, become
perfectly informed of the wants of the army, and the extent of
those wants at "the fixed posts," all the information which

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

notice could give him was-already in his possession ; no notice
was then necessary.
The alleged waiver did not vary the construction. Suppose
a memorandum had been indorsed on the- contract by Orr,
dispensing with the thirty days notice; this would not have
been a new contract.
It is admitted, the inquiry must be confined to the issue
made in the replication, where the breaches are assigned ; but
the matter relied upon to show .waiver is embraced in the
assignment of the breaches. The replication refers to the
contract, and it covers all advances made to the contractor.
No opinion upon the weight of the evidence was asked.
The evidence was given, from which, it was claimed, that the
jury might infer the waiver, and the court was requested to
charge the jury, that they might decide if notice had been
waived; but the court, instead of this, decided and did instruct
the jury, that Orr could not waive notice.
The instruction asked for should have been given; which
was, that it should be left to the jury to infer, whether there
was any evidence, express or implied, by which a waiver of
notice could be inferred.
The Attorney-General then went into an examination of the
evidence; from. which, if they had been permitted so to do by
the court, a waiver of notice might be inferred. He said, the
weight of the evidence might have been against the waiver,
but this should have been left to the jury. But the court said,
in no case can there be a recovery, without proof of previous
notice of the quantity of provisions wanted. Cited 3 Munford 352.
As to the second exception. The general rule is, that one
party cannot take advantage of a portion of the contents of a
paper produced by the other party, without admitting the
whole of the contents. The whole is made evidence, so far
as it is applicable to the matters in controversy.
It is immaterial who introduces the evidence. The rule
grows out of the fact, that the paper is one entire account.
The introduction of it, is the introduction of one single document; and the rule rests on the general principle, that a.
confession must be taken together. The United States have
never admitted the credits separated from the debits.
VOL. vHi.-3

SUPREME COURT.
EUnited States v. Jones.]

Upon the third exception, it was contended for the United
States, that the three payments, amounting to eighty thousand
dollars, were made on the contracts of Orr with the government, promiscuously ; and the instruction asked was, that the
jury might find what was advanced for the Florida, and what
for the Georgia posts-there were fixed posts in both-and thus
discriminate between the contracts. This was a proper subject for the jury, and the court ought not to have excluded the
examination. Cited, 3 Johns. 528.
The fourth exception was properly taken. Why should not
the whole instruction have been given? The defendant ought
to have shown by evidence, that the advances of eighty thousand dollars were not made under the contract. The receipts
of Orr were prima facie evidence, and if there was mistake
or design on the part of the government or of Orr in stating
them; then, that they were applicable to some other contract
should have been shown.
Mr Joncs and Mr Coxe, for the defendant, denied, that on a
joint and several bond, a recovery can be had against the principal, when the surety is not liable. There is no distinction between the principal and the surety in such an obligation. The
obligation and contract are one, although there may be several
iemedies. 4 Bac. Ab., tit. Obligation, D. 4, 165, 167, note.
A judgment in a severaL suit against the principal, will conclude the sureties ; and an acquittal of the principal, it is admitted, will discharge the sureties. A judgment against the
principal, would be evidence against the sureties, in a separate
action against them. 2 Starkie 196.
If any distinction ever exists, it must grow out of some thing
dehors the bond, either before or after its execution, and relate
to the remedy.
This case is to be looked at as if Orr had given the bond
alone; and it must be admitted, that each party to a joint and
several bond can act only for himself; he may waive any
claims he has under it, for himself, but for no other party to it.
The waiver dispenses with the proof of performance of a condition precedent, and is founded on the principle, that the condition had been performed. But it is denied, that the condition
,n ihe contract was precedent. It was a substantial independ-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.)

ent~agreement, to supply such provisions as should be required
from Orr, on thirty days' notice. Strike this out, and the
contract would be without sense.
But the court was not called upon to decide upon the operation of the alleged waiver. It was asked to decide, that it was
competent for the jury to infer, that the notice was waived.
This was asking the jury to infer a legal consequence.
A military "post," where rations were to be delivered,
affords no evidence of-the quantity of provisions wanted there.
Changes in the number of the garrison may occur, so as to
augment or diminish the number of rations wanted; and the
deliveries of 1817 would furnish no evidence of what would
be required in 1818. The same provision as to notice, was
contained in both contracts ; and no evidence was offered to
show, that deliveries under the contract of 1817,-were made
without notice.
The second exception presents the question, whether the
defendant, by using the account as to the credits contained in
it, made the debits in the same account, evidence against him.
The distinction is, whether the evidence is offered by the
party claiming the benefit of the admission, or by the opposite
party. The evidence was introduced by the United States.
This gave the defendant the right claimed.
It is but justice to a party againstwhom a treasuryaccount is
exhibited, such as that relied upon by the plaintiffs, that the
credits contained in it should be. used by him as evidence,
without prejudice to his right to object to the debits. On the
examination of the account by the officer who has.to adjust his
account at the treasury, all the original vouchers exhibited by
him are surrendered, and remain there. When the credit has
been admitted, the party cannot be deprived of it.
The third instruction claimed by the plaintiffs, and which is
the subject of the third exception, assumes, that there was to
be a common fund for the posts in Florida and Georgia. The
advances were not, therefore, made upon the contract now in
,question, and they are not covered by the bond on which this
suit is brought. The contract does not extend to supplies. in
Florida, and no account was exhibited, as settled for advances
made upon this contract exclusively. Such an account would
have been proper, and was necessary to enable the jury to

S.UPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

decide upon the extent of the defendant's responsibility.
There was no error in the action of the circuit court in this
matter.
The instructions given to the jury, and which are complained
of in the fourth exception, are more favourable to the United
States, than was warranted by the facts. The jury have by
their verdict found the fact, that there was a blending of
the advances, and that the advances were not made under
the Georgia contract only.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the district of
Columbia for- the county of Washington.
The original suit was brought on a bond given by Orr, and
certain persons as his sureties, to the United States, on the 9th
of February 1818, for!,the penal sum of thirty-five thousand
dollars, upon condition, well-and truly to perform, &c. certain
articles of agreement, dated the same day, &c. "made between
John C. Calhoun, secretary of war, and the said Orr, concerning
the supply of rations to the troops of the United States within
the state of Georgia, including that part of theCreeks' lands
within the territorial limits of said state, according to the true
intent and purport" thereof. The defendant Orr died pending the suit, and it being revived against his administrator, the
latter, after oyer of the bond, and condition, and articles of
agreement, pleaded a general performance of the condition by
Orr ; and the replication assigned for breach, that although
the United States did advance and furnish to Orr, divers large
sums of -money at divers times, on account of, and to enable
him to carry into effect the articles of agreement ; and although
the accounts of Orr, in relation to the articles of agreement,
had been finally settled by the accounting officers of the government, and upon the settlement, there was found due to the
United States the sum, &c., &c. ; yet he had not paid the
same, &c. Upon this replication, issue was joined; and the
cause being tried, a verdict was found for the administrator,
upon which judgment was afterwards given by the court in
his favour.
At the trial, several bills of exceptions were taken on behalf
of the United States ; and the validity of these exceptions constitutes the matter now in controversy befoie this court.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
EUnited States v. Jones.]
The first article of the articles of agreement above referred
to, is to this effect.
"That the said, Orr, his heirs, &c. shall
supply and issue all the rations, to consist of the articles hereinafter specified, that shall be required of him or them, for the
use of the United States, at all and every place or places where
troops are, or may be stationed, marched, or recruited, within the
limits of the state of Georgia, including that part of the Creeks'
land lying within the territorial limits of said state, thirty days
notice being given of the post or place where rations may be wanted,
or the number of troops to be furnished on their march, from
the 1st day of June 1818, until the 31st day of May 1819,
inclusive, at the following prices, &c." The tenth article provides, "that all such advances of money, as shall be made to
the said Orr, &c, for, or on account of the supplies to be furnished, pursuant to this contract, and all such sums of money
that the commanding officer of the troops or recruits, &c. may
cause to be disbursed, in order to procure supplies, in consequence of any failure on the part of the said Orr, &c. in complying with the requisitions herein contained, shall be accounted
for by him or them, by way of offset against the amount of
such supplies; and the surplus, if any, repaid to the United
States immediately after the expiration of the term of this
contract, together with interest, &c. ; and, that if any balance
shall, on any settlement of the accounts of Orr, &c. be found
due by him or them, &c. the same shall be immediately paid."
At the trial, the United States, in support of their suit, introduced certain official accounts and statements of the third
auditor, duly certified from the treasury department, which
were read in evidence, saving to the defendant all exceptions to
the competency of these accounts to charge him, otherwise
than as the items of charges in the same should be supported
by proof. The United States ailso read in evidence a contract
made by Orr in, January 1817, for army supplies for the state
of South Carolina and Georgia for one year, from the 31st dayof
.May 1817: the terms of which contract are the same as
those of thcontract of .1818. Besides evidence to other points,
not now material to be stated, the United States introduced the
testimony of a Mr Abbott, and proved by him, that at the time
when contracts were made for the supply of the United States
troops, the contractors (as he believed) were then informed of

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

the fixed posts within the limits of the contract, and the number
of troops there stationed, and that rations we're to be regularly
suppflied by sueh-contractor, according to the number of troops
so staAioned at such places ; and that the contractor was informed he was to continue so to do, without any other notice
so to do; and that special requisitions and notice of thirty
days would be made and given, for all other supplies at other
places or posts, and for any change in the quantity of supplies
which might become necessary at tfie fixed posts, from a change
in the number of troops stationed at such fixed posts ; and that
such was the understanding at the war department, in settling
the accounts of contractors. But he did not know of any verbal
explanation between the secretary of war and Orr on this subject, specifying any thing more or less, than what the contract
specified; and he did not know that there had been any submission or agreement of contractors to such a construction of
their contracts; but that'such was the rule adopted by the
accounting officers in settling the accounts of contractors.
The defendant, among other things, introduced evidence to
show, that Orr always insisted on the necessity of requisitions
and notices, according to the terms of the -contract, for supplies
at all posts, before he couldibe charged with a failure ; and also
to show the custom of making requisitions, and giving such
notices for supplies at all posts where provisions were required,
and without regard to their being old established posts, or new
ones established after the contract.
After the whole evidence was closed, the attorney for the
United States prayed the court to instruct the jury, "that it
was competent for them to infer from the said evidence, that
the said Orr, in snpplying the fixed posts, as he had before done
under his former contract, and knowing thereby the number
of rations there required, dispensed with any special requisition
and notice, in relation to such supplies to said posts; and in
case of failure to supply such posts, according to usage and
knowledge, is liable, under the bond and contract upon which
this action is founded." The circuit court refused to give this
instruction, and the question now is, whether it ought to have
been given.
To the terms in which this instruction is couched,
there is
certainly a well founded objection. The language used is

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

equivocal, and admits of various interpretations ; and it is certainly the duty of the party asking an instruction, to express
it with such certainty as may not mislead, either the courtor the
jury. The court were asked to instruct the jury, "that it was
competent for them to infer from the said evidence, &c." Now,
if by "competent," as here used, it was intended that there was
sufficient evidence from which the jury might infer a waiver or
dispensation, &c., the instruction was manifestly wrong, for it
required the court to decide upon the weight of evidence, and
to take from the jury the right to ascertain that which is peculiarly within their province, for themselves. But if it was only
intended to express, that there was evidence conducing to prove
a waiver, the language was ill adapted to the purpose; for it does
not ask,,whether the evidence introduced on the part'of the United
States, if believed, conduced to such a purpose, but whether the
evidence on both sides conduced to such a purpose, which
would require the court to ascertain, in like manner, the weight
of the evidence ; for it could not be correctly affirmed, that the
evidence conduced to such a purpose, where there was conflicting evidence, unless there was a decided preponderance on
that side.
But without dwelling more on the.phraseology of this instruction, we are of opinion that the court were correct in refusing it upon the substance of the doctrine asserted in it.
The court were required to instruct the jury, that it was competent for them to infer that Orr had dispensed with any
specil requisition and notice, in 'relation to supplies at fixed
posts, not from the evidence generally, but from two special
circumstances in the case; first, from having supplied the
fixed posts, as he had done, under his former contract (that is
the contract of the preceeding year, 1817), and secondly, from
thus knowing the number of rations there required. Now,
the contract of 1817 entitled him to have requisitions and
notices of thirty days, precisely in tie same manner as the
contract of 18,18 did, and it was neither proved nor admitted
in the case, that such requisitions and notices had not been
given under the former contract. If they had been given,
then certainly there could be no legal inference, that they
were not to be continued to be given under the contract of
1818., And if they were not given, then tile circumstance

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones.]

that they had been dispensed with under a former contract,
had no legal tendency to establish that they were dispensed
with under a new and independent contract. Indeed, the
very circumstance, that in some new and independent contract they were stipulated for, would furnish proof, that they
were not intended to be dispensed with. Why otherwise
should they be again inserted in the contract?. Certainly not
for the purpose of showing that they were not to be insisted on,
but were to be dispensed with.
Besides, the fact of having supplied the fixed posts under a
former contract, and knowing thereby the number of rations
then required for them, could have no legal tendency to establish the right or duty of the contractor to supply the same
posts with the same number of rations in future years. The
number of troops might be varied; the importance of those
posts might be diminished or increased ; and from the nature
of the military service, many other circumstances might occur
to render a fixed quantity of supply at those posts, incompatible with the public interests or public necessities. The very
language of the contract demonstrates, that no such 'fixed
.quantities could have been contemplated by the parties. The
contractor is to supply and issue all rations, which shall be required of him, "at all, and every place or places where troops
are or may be stationed, &c., thirty days' notice being given
of the post or place where the rations may be wanted, or the
number of troops to be furnished on their march." So that
the contract not only does not look to any fixed posts in particular, but it carries on its face an implication, that the supply required might or would be varied in all posts and places.
Upon these grounds, we are of opinion that the circuit court
were right in refusing the instruction prayed for. We give no
opinion upon the point, whether a parol waiver of the notice
stipulated for in the contract would, if proved, have entitled
the United States to recover in this suit, it being a suit for a
forfeiture for non-fulfilment of the terms of the contract. Even
supposing a waiver by parol may discharge the party, so as to
save a forfeiture of a bond, it does not follow that a waiver by
parul is to be admitted to create a forfeiture of a bond. On
neither point do we. mean to express any opinion.
The next exception involves the same point relative to the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

right of the defendant to have the credits allowed him on the
treasury accounts, notwithstanding a rejection-of some of the
debits, which was involved in another case between the same
parties, ia which my brother M'LEAN has already delivered the
opinion of the court.
The next exception is to an instruction of the circuit court,
given upon the prayer of the defendant. It is as follows:
"That if the jury find and believe from the evidence aforesaid,
that the three several advances from the war department to
the said Orr, in the said first account above charged, to the
amount of eighty thousand dollars, though appearing in the
receipts for ilhe same as made on account of this contract,
were, nevertheless, advanced under an arrangement and understanding with the government and said. Orr, to which the
sureties in the bond now in suit, were in no manner party or
privy; that the said sums of money were to be held by the
said contractor as a common fund of supplies, as well for the
forts and military posts in Florida, including the subsistence of
the Indian prisoners there, as of the posts within the state of
Georgia, and the Creek lands within the territorial limits of
that state, and to be indiscriiminately applied to all or any of
both the Georgia and Florida forts and military posts, upon the
terms and conditions of this contract, as if extended to the
Florida posts; and that the said contractor was accordingly
called on and required, in the execution of that contract, and
out of the general fund so advanced, nominally, under this
contract, to furnish subsistence as well for the Florida posts,
including Indian prisoners there, as for the posts within the
proper territorial limits of the contract indiscriminately ; and
that both branches of supply were blended in debits for alleged
failures, &c., and credits for supplies in the same official account of advances and expenditures under this contract, as
kept at the proper accounting departments of the treasury and
war departments, without there being any specific part or portion of the said advances designated and set apart for the two
branches of supply and subsistence in Georgia and Florida
respectively: then the obligors in the bond now in suit, nor
any of them, are not responsible in this action under the tenth
article of said contract, for the accounting and paying by said
Orr of any balance or surplus of the said advances remaining
VOL. VII1-3 c

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Jones,]

in his hands, unexpended at the time of the expiration of the
term of said contract, in the execution of the said contract, and
in the supplies of subsistence therein stipulated for."
.Stripped of the complicated circumstances in which this instruction is involved, it presents the simple question whether,
.under the tenth article of the contract of 1818, the parties to
the bond are in'the present action responsible for any balance
in the hands of Orr, at the expiration of the same contract,
of advances made to him ; not on account of that particular
contract exclusively, but on account of that and other contracts, as a common fund for supplies, where accounts of the
supplies, the expenditures and the funds had all. been throughout blended indiseirainately by both parties, and no separate
portion had been designated or set apart for the contract of
1818. We are of opinion that the question ought to be answered in the negative ; and that, therefore, the instruction
given by the circuit court was correct. The tenth article of
the contract of 1818 declares, that all advances made "for and
on account of the supplies to be furnished pursuant to this
contract," shall be duly accounted for. Now, advances made
as a common fund for supplies under that and other contracts,
without any discrimination or apportionment for either in particular, can, in no just sense, be said to be advances made for
supplies "pursuant to the contract" of 1818. The whole fund
might, if necessary, be rightfully applied for any purpose within the scope of either contract. The unexpended balance is
not the balance of any appropriation or advances under any
particular contract, but constitutes a common fund for all remaining purposes under any contract. If it were wanted for
supplies for the Florida posts, there would be no pretence to
say that it was a balance, for which thelpailis were responsible in the present suit. And if not wanted for such a purpose,
still, to fix responsibility upon them according to the terms of
their engagement, it must be shown that the balance was a
balance, remaining unexpended, of advances under the contract of I818
But how is that to be shown, when no distinct
advances were made, no distinct expenditures required, and
no distinct accounts kept under that contract ? To say that
the parties to the present bond should be liable for the whole
balance, would be to say, that they should be liable for ad-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Jones.]

vances nade under any other contracts ; and if not liable for
the whole, the very case supposed in the instruction precludes
the possibility of any legal separation of the items of the bal
ance. Each and all of them are blended, per my et per tout,
as a common fund. The case indeed, in the principles which
must govern it, ranges itself under that large class of cases,
where a party, bound for the fidelity of a clerk or other agent
of A, as keeper of his money or accounts, is held not liable for
acts done as the keeper of the money or accounts of A and B.
And in the present suit there is no difference in point of law
between the liability of the principal, and that of the sureties
upon the bond. It is the same contract as to both ; and binds
both or neither. The United States are not, however, without
remedy ; for there can be no doubt that an action, in another
form, would lie against Orr for any balance, however received,
which remained unexpended in his hands after the termination of the service, for which: the advances were made.
The next exception is. to the refusal of the circuit court to
instruct the jury "that the receipts of Benjamin G. Orr, offered
in evidence, are prima facie evidence that he received the
eighty thousand dollars tinder the contract, on which this suit
is brought; and that it is incumbent on the defendants to
satisfy the jury by evidence, that the said advances were not
made under the said contract, as stated in the said receipts;
but that it was so stated by mistake or design on the part of the
government and said Orr, and intended to be applicable to some
other contract." The court gave the instruction as prayed,
omitting only the last clause as to the mistake or design of the
parties. And we are~of opinion that the instruction, as given,
wvas all that the United States had a legal right to require.
If the advances were not made under the contract, as stated in
the receipts, the parties to the bond were not responsible therefor, and it was wholly immaterial to them how it occurred;
whether it was by mistake, or design, or otherwise. The receipts were prima facie evidence that the money was received
under the contract; and it was incumbent on the defendants to
establish the contrary by competent proofs.
Uton the whole, the opinion of the court is, that the judgment of the circuit court ought to be affirmed.

