THE DECISIONS
OF

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

JANUARY TERM 1834.

WALTER DUNN ET AL., APPELLANTS V. HENRY CLARKE ET AL.
Jurisdiction. The complainants filed their bill in the circuit court of Ohio,
praying for an injunction to a judgment'in an ejectment, and for a conveyance of the premises. All the complainants were residents in the state of
Ohio, andso were the defendants. The judgment was obtained in the circuit court by G., a citizen of Virginia, and the defendant Clarke holds the
land recovered under the will of G. in trust.
No doubt is entertained that jurisdiction may be sustained, so far as to stay
execution at law against D. He is the representative of Graham, and
although he is a citizen of Ohio, yet this fact, under the circumstances, will
not deprive this court of an equitable control over the judgment. But beyond this, the decree of this court cannot extend.
Of the action at law, the circuit court had jurisdiction, and no change in the
residence or condition of the partics can take away a jurisdiction which has
once attached. If G. had lived, the circuit court might have issued an injunction to his judgment at law without a personal service of process,
except on his counsel; and as D. is his representative, the court may do the
.same thing, as against him. Tihe injunction bill is not considered an original bill between the same parties, as at law : but, if other parties are made
in the bill, and different interests involved; it must be considered, to that
VOL. Vti.-A

SUPREME COURT.
[Dunn et al.v. Clarke et al.]
extent at least, an original bill; and the jurisdiction of the circuit court
must depend upon the citizenship of the parties.
Several persons are made defendants who were not parties (or privies to the
suit at law, and no jurisdiction as to them can be exercised, by this or the
circuit court. But as there appear to be matters of equity in the case,
which may be investigated by a state court; it would be reasonable and
just to stay all proceedings on the judgment until the complainants shall
have time to seek relief from a state court.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio.
This case was submitted to the court as a question whether
the court had jurisdiction in the same; and was also argued at
large upon the merits and the law, by Mr Stanberry and Mr
Ewing, for the appellants; and by Mr Corwin, for the appellees.
Tie only question decided by the court was upon the jurisdiction; and the arguments on the law and facts of the case
are therefore, necessarily, omitted.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This suit was brought into this court, by an appeal from the
decree of the circuit court of the United States, for the district
of Ohio.
Tie complainants in the court below filed their bill praying
for an injunction to a judgment recovered against them in an
action of ejectment, and to obtain a decree for a conveyance of
the land in controversy. All the complainants are residents of
the. state of Ohio, and so are the defendants.
The judgment at law was obtained by Graham, a citizen of
Virginia, but who has since deceased; and the defendant, Walter Dunn, holds the land recovered, in trust, under the will of
Graham.
On this state of facts a question is raised, whether this court
have jurisdiction of the cause. This question seems not to
have been made in the circuit court.
No doubt is entertained by the court, that jurisdiction of the
case may be sustained, so far as to stay execution on the judgment at law against Dunn. He is the representative of Graham; and although he is a citizen of Ohio, yet this fact, under
the circumstapces, will not deprive this court of an equitable

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Dunn et al. v. Clarke et al.]

control over the judgment. But beyond this, the decree. of
this court cannot extend.
Of the action at law, the circuit court had jurisdiction;- and
no change in the residence or condition of the parties can take
away a jurisdiction which has once attached. If Graham had
lived, the circuit court might have-issued an injunction to his
judgment at law, withjut a personal service of process, except
on his counsel; and as Dunn is his representative, the court
may do the same thing, as against him. The injunction bill
is not considered an original bill between the same parties, as
,at law: but, if other parties are made in the bill, and different
interests involved, it must be considered, to that extent at least,
an original bill; and the jurisdiction of the circuit court must
depend upon the citizenship of the parties.
In the present case, several persons are made defendants
who were not parties or privies to the suit at law, and no jurisdiction as to them can be exercised, by this or the circuit court.
But, as there appear to be matters of equity in the case, which
may be investigated by a state court, this court think it would
be reasonable and just to stay all proceedings on the judgmenti
untir the complainants shall have time to seek relief from a
state court. And the court direct that all proceedings be
thus stayed, and that the decree of the circuit court be modified so as to conform to this view of the case.

This cause came on tW be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that in the present case
several persons ai.e made defendants who were not parties or
privies to the suit at law, and that no jurisdiction can be exercised by this or the circuit court; but as there appear to be
matters of equity in the case, which may be investigated by a
state court, this court think it would be reasonable and just to
stay all proceedings on the judgment until the complainants
shall have time to seek relief from a state court, and they s6
order and decree. And the court further order that the decree
of the circuit court be reformed so as to conform to the opinion
of this court.

