SUPREME COURT.

THOMAS BOON'S HEIRS, COMPLAINANTS V. WILLIAM CHILES
ET AL., DEFENDANTS.

T. Boon, a citizen and resident of Pennsylvania, filed a bill in the circuit
court of Kentucky against W. Chiles and others, praying that the defendant
and such others of the defendants as may hold the legal title to certain lands,
may be decreed to convey them to him, and for general relief.
The bill states, that Reuben Searcy, being entitled to one moiety of a settlement and pre-emption right of fourteen hundred acres of land, located in
Licking, sold the same to William Hay in September 1781, and executed a
bond for a conveyance. In December following, Hay assigned this bond
to George Boon, who, in April 1783, assigned it to the plaintiff. Hay,
while he held the bond, obtained an assignment of the plat and certificate of
survey, which he caused to be registered; and the patent was issued in his
name in 1785. In 1802, the plaintiff made a conditional sale of this land
to Hezekiah Buon,but the conditions were not complied with, and the contract was considered by both parties as a nullity. Yet a certain William
Chiles, and the said Hezekiah Boon and George Boon, fraudulently uniting
the plaintiff's name with their own, without his consent or knowlsdge, filed a
bill in chancery, praying that the heirs of Hay might be decreed to convey
the legal title to the said William Chiles, who claimed the right of Searcy
.through the plaintiff, under his pretended sale to Hezekiah Boon. A decree was obtained, under which a conveyance was made to Chiles, by a
commissioner appointed by the court. The plaintiff avers his total ignorance of these trans-actions at the time, and disavows them.
While this suit was depending, the decree of Bourbon court was reversed in
the court of appeals of the state, and the cause remanded to that court for
farther proceedings.
The complainant died, and the suit was revived in the name of his heirs.
The complainants amended their bill, showing a reversal of the decree of
Bourbon court, and making the heirs of Hay defendants, and praying a
conveyance from them. Their amended bill is not in the record. They
also filed an amended bill, making the heirs of George Boon parties, and
stating that his heirs disclaimed all title to the property. One of them answered and disclaimed title. It is not stated whether process was, or was
not executed on the other heirs of George Boon.
The defendant, William Chiles, in his answer states, that there were other
heirs of Hay thin those mentioned in the Sill and made defendants, who
are not residents of Kentucky.
The circuit court of Kentucky were divided in opinion on two questions
which were certified to this court as follows,
tst. This court being then divided, and the judges opposed in opinion as to
the jurisdiction over the case, aiqd unable therefore to render a decree on
the merits, they resolve to adjourn that question to the supreme court: to
wit, under all th circumstances appearing as above, can this court entertain
cognizance of the cise.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Boon's Heirs v. Chiles et al ]
2d. The judges were also opposed in opinion on the point, whether the complainants were entitled to a decree, in the absence of any proof that the persons inade defendants in the amended bill, as heirs of George Boon, were,
in fact, his heirs; both of which points occurred, and became material in
this case.
By the Court : The question between the plaintiffs, and the defendant William
Chiles, is within the jurisdiction of the circuit court for the district of Kgntucky, and may be decided by that court, though Hay's heirs were not parties to the suit. That they were made parties, cannot oust the jurisdiction
as between those who are properly before the court.
It is not intended to say, that where there are several heirs, some out ot.
the jurisdiction of the court, a decree may not be made for a conveyance
of their own shares, from those on whom process has been served; but it is
not thought necessary to decide that quest'on in this case as it is stated.
The principles settled in the answer to the first question decide the second.
George Boon's heirs are not necessarily defendants. They can have no
interest in the contest, nor is any decree asked against them. If they are
made defendants, and the answer admits that they are heirs, as is admitted
by the defendant who has answered, no farther proof can be required. If
they do not answer, and the process is executed, so that the bill is taken
for confassed, no farther proof is necessary. If the process be not executed
they are not before the court.

ON a certificate of division from the circuit court of the United
States for tile district of Kentucky.
The case was submitted to the court upon printed arguments,
.prepared by the counsel for the complainants and the defendants in the circuit court.
Mr Flaggin, for the complainants; Mr Wickliffe and Mr Depeu, for the defendants.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the -opinion of the
Court.
In this cause the judges of the court for the seventh circuit
and district of Kentucky, were divided in opinion on two questions, which were ordered to be certified to this court, in the
following manner.
1st. This court being then divided, and the judges opposed
in'opinion as to the jurisdiction over the case, and unable
therefore to render a decree on the merits, they resolve to adjourn that question to the supreme court: to wit, under all
the circumstances appearing ias above, can this court entertain
cognizance of the case.
2d. The judges were also opposed in opinion on the point,

SUPREME COURT
[Boon's Heirs v. Chiles et al.]

whether the complainants were entitled to a decree, in the
absence of any proof that the persons made defendants in the
amended bill, as heirs of George Boon, were, in fact, his heirs,
both of which points occurred, and became material in this
case.
1st. The first question adjourned to this court is, "under
all the circumstances appearing as above, can this court (the
circuit court for the district of Kentucky) entertain cognizance
of the case.
The circumstances mentioned above are, that Thomas
Boon, a citizen and resident of Pennsylvania, filed a bill in
that court, in January 1823, against William Chiles, and

others, citizens and residents in Kentucky, praying that the
defendant, Chiles, or such other of the defendants as may
hold the legal title, may be decreed to convey to him certain
lands in the bill mentioned, and for general -elief.
The bill states, that Reuben Searcy, being entitled to one
moiety of a settlement, and pre-emption right of fourteen hundred acres of land, located in Licking, sold the same to William Hay, in September 1781, and executed a bond for a conveyance. In December following, Hay assigned this bond to
George Boon, who, in April 1783, assigned it to the plaintiff.
Hay, while he held the bond, obtained an assignment of the
plat and certificate of survey, which he caused to be registered;
and the patent was issued in his name in 1785.
The bill states, that in 1802, the plaintiff made a conditional
sale of this land to Hezekiah Boone, but the conditions were
not complied with, and the contract was considered by both
parties as a nullity. Yet, a certain William Chiles, and the
said Hezekiah Boon and George Boon, fraudulently uniting
the plaintiff's name with their own, without his consent or
knowledge, filed a bill in chancery, praying that the heirs of
Hay might be decreed to convey the legal title to the said
William Chiles, who claimed the right of Searcy, through the
plaintiff, under his pretended sale to Hezekiah Boon. A
decree was obtained, under which a conveyance was made to
Chiles, by a commissioner appointed by the court. The plaintiff avers his total ignorance of these transactions at the time,
and disavows them.
While this suit was depending, the decree of Bourbon court

JA: IUARY TERM 1834.
[Boon's Heirs v. Chiles et al.]

was reversed in the court of appeals of the state, and the cause
remanded to that court for farther proceedings.
The complainant died,. and the suit was revived in the name
of his heirs.
The case states, that the complainants amended their
bill,
showing a reversal of the decree of Bourbon court, and making
the.heirs of Hay defendants, .and praying a conveyance from
them. Their amended bill is not in the record. They also
flied an amended bill, making the heirs of George Boon parties, and stating that his heirs disclaimed all title to the property. One of them answered and disclaimed title. It is
not stated whether process was, or was not executed on the
other heirs of George Boon.
The defendant, William Chiles, in his answer states, that
there were other heirs of Hay than those mentioned in the
ill
and made defendants, who are not residents of Kentucky.
Upon this statement, the court is required to say, whether
he circuit court for the district of Kentucky can take cogni.ance of the case?
No controversy exists between the plaintiffs and William
Chiles, respecting the title of Searcy or his conveyance to Hay,
or that of Hay to George Boon, or the conveyance of George
Boon' to Thomas Boon. Both claim under three several
conveyances; both admit and assert their validity. Chiles
contends, that Thomas Boon sold this equitable title to Hezekiah Boon, under whom he claims, which sale the plaintiffs
deny. This then is the single point in issue between the parties. If the case is in such a situation as to enable the circuit
court to take cognizance of this question, it has jurisdiction.
The bill states a contract between Thomas and Hezekiah
Boon, for the sale of the property, which contract, it charges,
became void by consent of parties; and that Chiles purchased
from Hezekiah Boon, with full knowledge that it was void,
and that the equitable title still re'mained in Thomas Boon.
That, with this knowledge, he fraudulently filed a bill, in the
name of himself and of the said Thomas, who was totally
ignorant of the transaction, praying that the heirs of Hay might
be decreed to convey to him. This decree was obtained, but
has been since reversed.
It is clear, that the heirs of Hay can have no interest in tis

SUPREME COURT,
[Boon's Heirs v. Chiles et al.)

contest between the heirs of Thomas Boon and Willimn Chiles,
and need not be made parties, but for the purpose of obtaining
a conveyqnce of the legal title, if it still' remains in them.
The court-may very preperly decree as between Boon's heirs
and Chiles, although the heirs of Hay should not be parties.
Chiles is in possession cf a contract for the sale of Boon's
equitable title, which Boon alleged to be totally invalid, and
to have been fraudulently acquired. His heirs now allege it.
Chiles maintains that the sale from Thomas to Hezekiah
Boon was absolute and bona fide ; and that the whore equitable interest of Thomas Boon is legally and justly vested in
him. The heirs of Thomas Boon may certainly come into a
court of equity, and ask its decree to compel William Chiles tosurrender this contract, if it has indeed become a nullity, or to
enjoin him perpetually from the use of it, or to convey any
legal title he may have acquired under colour of it, to those
who possess the real equitable right. Should the court be
unable to decree against Hay's heirs, it may decree as between
Boon's heirs and William Chiles, so far as respects the title of
Chiles under Boon; if the bill be so framed as to enable the
sourt to grant that relief.
The original bill, as has already been shown, charges that
Chiles purchased from.Hezekiah Boon, knowing t.hat he had
no eqtitable right, and, fraudulently prosecuted that right in
the name of Thomas Boon, without his consent or knowledge.
It prays for a conveyance of the legal title from those who may
possess it, and also prays for general relief. This last prayer
entitles the plaintiff to any relief which may be granted under
his bill, and which is not inconsistent with the specific relief
for which he asks. It must be admitted that had the bill
prayed specifically for a surrender'of the contract under which
Chiles claimed, the court might have decreed it, had the testimony justified such a decree: and it will be conceded that
this relief is not inconsistent with that for which the bill particularly prays.
We think, therefore, that the question between the plaintiffs,
and the defendant William Chiles, is within the jurisdiction
of the circuit court for the district of Kentucky, and may be
decided by that court, though Hay's heirs were Pot parties to

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Boon's Heirs v. Chiles et al.]

the suit. That they were made parties, cannot oust the jurisdiction as between those who are properly before the court.
It is not intended to say, that where there are several heirs,
some out of the jurisdiction of the court, a decree may not be
made for, a conveyance of their own shares, from those on
whom process has been served: but it is not thought necessary
to decide that question in this case as it is stated.
The principles settled in the answer to the first question
decide the second. George Boon's heirs are not necessarily
defendants. They can have no interest in the contest, nor is
any decree asked against them. If they are made defendants,
and the answer admits that they are heirs, as is admitted by
the defendant who has answered, no farther proof can be required. It they do not answer, and the process is executed,
so that the bill is taken for confessed, no farther proof is necessary. If the process be not executed, they are not before the
court.
We do not perceive that in this case, as stated, any proof
respecting the heirs of George Boon ought to be required.
The court directs the following certificate.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, and on the questions and points on which'
the judges of the said court were opposed in opinion, and which
was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act
of congress in such' case made and provided, and was argued
by counsel; on consideration whereof, this court is of opinion,
1. That under the circumstances stated in the certifictte of the
judges, the said circuit court could entertain cognizance of the
case. 2. That the want of proof that the persons made defendants in the amended bill as the heirs of George Boon,
were in fact his heirs, is no obstruction to a decree on the
merits of the cause; all of which is hereby ordered and adjudged to be certified to the said circuit court under the seal of
this. court.
VOL. viI.-3 s

