SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. JOHN HUERTAS.
The decree of the superior court of East Florida, confirming a concession of
land to the appellee, by governor Coppinger, in 1817, affirmed.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
The case was submitted to the court by' Mr Call, for the
United States ; and by Mr White, for the appellee.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the court for the district
of East Florida, in favour of the validity of lt claim to fifteen
thousand acres of land, under a grant made by governor Coppinger in 1817.
He has failed to allege in express termS, in his petition to
the district court, that his claim is protected by the treaty of
1819, and this objection has been taken on the part of the
United States. If the reference made in the acts of congress,
which authorize this proceeding, to'the act of the 26th of May
1824, for the conditions, restrictions and limitations according
to which these claims should be adjudicated, was considered as
made for the purpose of describing the jurisdiction of the court,
the objection would perhaps be fatal. But it has been decided
in the case of Clarke, ihat the words to which this reference
is made, do not describe the jurisdiction of the court, but the
principles according to which this jurisdiction is to be exercised;
and that if the petition shows a case which is really submitted
to the court by the law, it is sufficient. This is fully shown
by the petition before the court; it states the concession to
have been made to him by the. Spanish governor, and adds
that he was in possession when the flags were changed. We
think no valid objection exists to the petition.
It is also urged, that the motive to the grant is the service
rendered by raising cattle, and the advantage to be derived

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Huertas.]

from the establishment of a cow-pen. It is added, that the
petitioner has ceased to apply the land to the intended object.
It having been decided that land might be granted for meritorious services, the governor must necesgarily judge of them ;
and the full title acknowledges that the conditions of the concession which was made -by governor Kindelan, in October
1814, had been complied with.
After reciting that the conditions of the concession have
been fully performed, the grant proceeds : I have, therefore,
granted, and by these presents do grant, in the name of his
majesty, to the said Don Juan Huertas, his heirs and successors, the said fifteen thousand acres-of land in absolute property," &c.
The title to the land is conplete, and cannot depend on his
continuing to raise cattle or to keep up his cow-pen, after the
change of government. The only question in the case which
has not been already decided, respects the identity of the land
decreed with that granted.
The decree confirms the title of the claimant, " to the extent
and agreeably to the boundaries, as in those surveys made by
Don Andrew Burgevin ;"-the plots 6f which are in the record.
The first, of five thousand acres, dated the 19th of September 1818, is situated on the east side of St John's, about- six
miles southward of Picolata, beginning on the margin of the
river, near the mouth of Tocoy creek.
The description of the grant is five thousand acres, at a
place called Tocoy, five miles above Picolata, and bounded on
the west by the river St John's., The grant also mentions the
adjoining. lands of others, which the surveyor has omitted to
mention.
The place called Tocoy ir the grant, and the mouth of
Tocoy creek mentioned in the survey, may be considered as
the same; since the land binds on the river into which Tocoy
empties itself. The grant places the land fi- miles above
Picolata, on the St John's; and the survey places it about six
miles south of Picolata. Now the St-John's runs from south;
and, consequently, land on the river above Picolata, is south of
Picolata. The identity of this tract is, we think, sufficiently
proved.
The grant for the remaining ten thousand acres is placed on.
VOL. v11i.-3 M

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Huertas.]

the bank of the river, about twelve miles above a place 6alled
the Ferry, below A. Rayant's, bounded on the south by the
lands of John Moore, and thence east, to the head of Deep
Creek, taking in the east and west banks of the said creek, and
bounded on the north by the south west line of Tocoy, and on
the west by the river St John's.
This part of the grant is surveyed in tmo tracts, one of six
and the other of four thousand acres. The survey of six thousand acres is bounded on the west by the St John's river, and
on the south by Moore's land, and by vacant land. The certificate of the surveyor does not mention the other boundaries
described in the grant. But as the tract is bounded on the
west by the river St John's, and on the south by Moore's land,
the omission of the other boundaries is not material.
The remaining survey of four thousand acres contains no
description which connects it in any manner with the giant.
The order for this survey having been made subsequent to the
24th of January 1818, could give no title to land not within
the'grant.
There is no error in so much of the decree as declares the
claim to be valid, and as confirms the title of the claimant, to
the extent and agreeably to the boundaries as in the surveys
dated the 19th day of September 1818 and the 31st day of
May 1820; and so far the same is affirmed: but there is error
in so much of the said decree as confirms the title of the claimant to the extent and agreeably to the boundaries, as in the
survey dated the 26th day of June 1820, and the said decree,
so far as respects the title to the land contained in that survey,
is reversed; and the cause is remanded to the said district
court, with directions to reform the said decree, so as to conform the same to the decree of this court, by directing the said
four thousand acres of land to be surveyed within the bounds
of the grant to the claimant, if the land be now vacant.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the superior court for the eastern district of Florida, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it
is the opinion of this court, that there is no error in so much
of the decree of the said superior court as declares the claim

JANUARY TERM 1834.

491

rUnited States v. Huertas.]

of the petitioner to be valid, and as confirms the title of the
claimant to the extent and agreeably to the boundaries in the
survey.s dated the 19th day of September 1818, and the 31st
day of May 1820; and so far it is'ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the said decree be, and the same is
hereby affirmed. But it is the opinion of this court, that there
is error in so much of the said decree as confirms the title of
the claimant to the -extent and agreeably to the boundaries as
in the survey dated the 26th day of June 1820; and that the
said decree, so far as respects the title to the land contained in
that survey be, and the same is hereby reversed. And it is
further ordered and decreed by this court, that this cause be,
and the same is hereby renranded to the said superior court,
with directions to reform the said decree so as to conform
the same to the decree of this court, by decreeing the said
four thousand acres to be surveyed within the bounds of the
grant to the claimant, if the land be now vacant.

