SUPREME COURT.

MARY DENEALE, EXECUTRIX OF GEORGE DENEALE, AND NANCY PATTON DENEALE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. JOHN AROIlER AND JOHN W. STUMP, EXECUTORS OF JOHN STUMP,
DECEASED.
By the revised code of Virginia it is enacted, that "judgments in any court
of record within this commonwealth where execution hath not issued, may
be revived by scire facias or an action of debt, brought thereon within ten
years next after the date of such judgment, and not after." The proceedings
in this case were a scire facias on a judgment against the testator, against
his executrix, and an execution on the judgment rendered against her on
that soire facies. By the Court: The writ of scire facias is no more an
execution than an action of debt would have been; and the execution which
was issued on the judgment against the executrix, is not an execution
on the judgment against George Deneale.
It is understood to be settled in Virginia, that no judgment against the execu.
tors can bind the heirs, or in any manner affect them. It could not be given
in evidence against them.
If the-defence set up by the defendants in the district court had rested on the
presumption of payment, the scire facias against the executor would undoubtedly have accounted for the dela', and have rebutted that presumption;
but the statute creates a, positive bar to proceeding on any judgment on
which execution has not issued, unless the plaintiff brings himself within
one of the exceptions of the act. Proceedings against the personal representative, is not one bf these exceptions.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for tie county
of Alexandria, in the District of Columbia.
This case came before the court on an earlier day in the
term and was dismissed in coIIscquence of an informality in

the writ of error (see the preceding case). By consent of the
parties the proceedings were amended, and a writ of error in
proper form was substituted.
The case was argued by Mr Lee, for the plaintiffs in error
and by Mr Coxe, for the defendants.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a scire facias to revive a judgment obtained by the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Deneale v. Stump's Executors.]

executors of John Stump against George Deneale, on the
19th of December 1817, in the court of the United States for
the county of Alexandria. The writ of scire facias is against
the heirs and devisees of Deneale, and was issued-on the 17th
day of May 1828. The scire facias was returned executed on
two of the defendants, the others not found. Two nihils having been returned against the defendants who were not founji,
an office judgment was entered against them all. At the succeeding term, Mary Deneale and Nancy P. Deneale, on whom
the process had been executed, set aside the office judgment
and demurred to the scire facias. The plaintiffs joined in demurrer. The same defendants farther pleaded, "that the
plaintiffs ought not to have or maintain their said execution,
because they say that the judgment recited in the said scire
facias was rendered more than ten years next prior to the day
of the date of the said scire facias." The plaintiffs reply, that
after the death of the said George Deneale, the plaintiffs issued
out of the circuit court of the said District of Columbia held for
the county of Alexandria, a scire facias against the said Mary
Deneale executrix of the said George Deneale, to show cause,
if any she could, why the plaintiffs should not have execution
of their judgment aforesaid of the goods and chattels which
were of the said George Deneale, and which came to the hands
of the said Mary Deneale to be administered. On which
scire facias such proceedings were had, that by the judgment of the court it was considered that the plaintiffs should
have execution of their said judgment, &c.; on which said
award of execution accordingly, on the 10th day of January
1820, an, execution was by the plaintiffs issued out, returnable on the fourth Monday in March 1820, and on which
execution the marshal made the following return--" no property found to levy this execution upon."
To this replication the defendants demurred, and the plaintiffs joined in demurrer.
The court, overruling the demurrer, both to the scire facias
andto the replication, rendered judgment in favouir of the
plaintiffs against all the defendants. This judgment is brought
before this court by writ of error.
Although the scire facias is entirely informal, the court is
not satisfied that the demurrer to it ought to be sustained, and
VOL. Viml.-3 R

SUPREME COURT.
[Deneale v. Stump's Executors.]

will therefore proceed to inquire whether the judgment be
erroneous on other grounds.
A joint judgment has been rendered against those defendants
who were not found, and against those who appeared and
pleaded. The law of Virginia, as it stood when jtr.isdiction
over this district was vested in congress, is the law of the
courts of Alexandria.
In the Revised Code of Virginia, vol. 1, p. 500, see. 65, it is
enacted, that-" on writs of scire facias for the reversal ofjudgments, no judgment shall be rendered on the return of two
nihils, unless the defendant resides in.the county, or unless he
*be absent from the commonwealth and have no known attorney therein. But such scire facias may be directed to the
sheriff of any county in the commonwealth wherein the defendantor his attorneyshall reside or be found, which being returned
served, the court may proceed to judgment thereupon as if the
defendant had resided in the county."
It does not appear that the defendants did reside in the
county, nor does it appear that they were absent from .the district. But there is great difficulty in applying this act to
writs of scire facias issued in the county of Alexandria,
Without deciding whether the office judgment against the
defendants, not served with process, be legal or otherwise; the
court will proceed to consider the demurrer to the plea of the
act of limitations.
In the first volume of the Revised Code, p. 389, it is enacted,
that "judgments in any court of record within this commonwealth where execution htuth not issued, may be revived by
scire facias or an action of debt, brought thereon, within t&m
years next after the date of such judgment, and not after."
We are not informed that any decision applicable to the
question arising in this case; has ever been made in the courts
of the state. We must, therefore, construe the statute without
the aid such decision would afford us. It certainly does not
apply to any judgnient on which an execution has issued : and
if the proceedings which have taken place on the judgment
obtained against George Deneale in December 1817, be equivalent to an execution, the demurrer to the replication was rightly
overruled.
Those proceedings are a scire facias against his executrix

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Deneale v. Stump's Executors.]

and an execution on the judgment rendered against her on
that scire facias. The writ of scire facias is no more an execution than an action of debt would have been: and the execution, which was issued on the judgment against the executrix, is not an execution on the judgment against George
Deneale.
It is understood to be settled in Virginia, that no judgment
against the executors can bind the heirs, or in any manner
affect them. It could noL ie given in evidence against them.
If the defence set Uip by the defendants in the district court
had rested on the presumption of payment, the scire facias
against the executor would undoubtedly have accounted for
the delay, and have rebutted that presumption; but the statute
creates a positive bar to proceeding on any judgment on which
execution has not issued, unless the plaintiff'brings himself
within one of the exceptions of the act. Proceedings against
the personal representative is not one of those exceptions. We
are therefore of opinion that the demurrer to the replication
ought to have been sustained, and the judgment must be
reversed, and the cause remanded to the circuit court for the
county of Alexandria; with directions to enter judgment on
the demurrer to the replication of the plaintiffs in favour of
the defendants.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record of the United States court for the District of Columbia
sitting in the county of Alexandria, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, this court is of opinion that there
is error in the judgment rendered by the said court, in this,
that the demurrer filed by the defendants in that court to the
replication of the plaintiffs filed to the plea of the statute of
limitations pleaded by the said defendants was overruled,
whereas it ought to have been sustained. it is therefore considered by this court that the sai l judgment be reversed and
annulled, and the cause rematfled to the said court of the
United States for the District of Columbia, in the county of
Alexandria, with directions to enter judgment on the said
demurrer to the replication of the plaintiffs, in favour of the
defendants in that court.

