JANUARY TERM 1834.

JACOB MUMMA,-PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR V. THE

POTOMAC CoM-

PANY.
The thirteenth section of the act of Virginia of January 1824, incorporating
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, declares, that'upon such surrender and acceptance, " the charter of the Potomac Company shall be, and
the same is hereby vacated and annulled, and all the powers and rights
thereby granted to the Potomac Company, shall be vested in the company
hereby incorporated. By this provision the Potomac Company ceased to
exist, and a scire facias 6n a judgment obtained against the company before
it was so determined cannot be maintained.
There is no p,-etence to say that a seiro facias can be maintained, and a judgment had thereon, against a dead corporation, any more than against a dead
man.

The dissolution of the corporation, under the acts of Virginia and Maryland,
(even supposing the act ofconfirmation ofcongress out of the way) cannot, in
any just sense, be considered, within the clause of the constitution of the
United States on this subject, an impairing of the obligation of the contracts
of the company, by those states, any more than the death of a private person
may be said to impair the obligation of his contracts. The obligation of
those contracts survives; and the creditors may enforce their claims against
any property belonging to the corporation, which has not passed into the
hands of bona fide purchasers ; but is still held in trust for the company, or
for the stockholders thereof, at the time of its dissolution, in any mode permuittod by t'he local laws.
A corporation, by the very terms and nature of its political existence, is sub..
ject to dissolution, by a surrender of its corporate franchises, and by a forfeiture of them for wilful misuser and nonuser. Every creditor must be presumed to understand the nature and incidents of such a body politic, and to
contract with reference to them. And it would be a doctrine new in the
law, that the existence of a private contract of the corporation should force
upon it a perpetuity of existence contrary to public policy, and the nature
and objects of its charter.
IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county

of Washington in bhe District of Columbia.
At a circuit court of the District of Columbia, hfl( at
Washington ci-ty, on the first Monday of June 1818, Jacob
Mumma, the plaintiff in error, recovered a judgment against
the Potomac Company, the defendants in error, for the sum of
five thousand dollars. No steps were taken to enforce the
payment of the judgment, nor any further proceedings had
in relation thereto, until tile 18th day of April 1828, on which
VOL. VIII.-2 L

SUPREME COURT.
[Mumma v. The Potomac Company.]

day a writ of scire facias was issued from the clerk's office
of said court, against the said Potomac Company, to revive said
judgment, which case was continued, by consent of parties,
from term toterm until December term of said court, in the
year 1830, at which1 term the following plea and statement
were filed by the consent of-parties.
"The attorneys, upon the record of the said defendants,
.iow here suggest and show to the court, that since the rendition and record of said judgment, the said Potomac Company, in due pursuance and execution of the provisions of the
charter of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, enacted
by the states of Maryland and Virginia, and by the congress
of the United States, have duly signified their assent to said"
charter, &c., and have duly surrendered their charter and conveyed in due form of law, to the said Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company, all the property, rights and privileges by
them owned, possessed and enjoyed under the same, which
surrender and transfer from said Potomac Company, have
been duly accepted by the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, as appears by the corpoate acts and proceedings of said
company, and final deed of surrender from the said Potomac
Company, dated on the 15th of August 1828, duly executed
and recorded in the several counties of the states of Virginia
and Maryland and the District of Columbia, wherein said
Potomac Company held any landsi and wherein the canals
and works of said company were situated; which said corporate acts and proceedings the said attorneys here bring into
court, &c., whereby the said attorneys say, the charter of said
Potomac Company became and is vacated and annulled, and
the company and the corporate franchises of, the same are
extinct, &c."
Whereupon the-following statement and agreement were
entered into and signed by the council for both parties, and
made a part of the record.
"The truth of the above suggestion is admitted; and it is
agreed to be submitted to the court, whether, under such circumstances, any judgment can be rendered against the Potomac Company upon this scire facias, reviving the judgment
in said Writ mentioned, and that reference for the said corporate acts and proceedings, and the deed in the above sugges-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Mumma v. The Potomac Company.]

tion mentioned, be had to the printed collection of acts, &c.
&c., printed and published by authority of the president and
directors of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company in
1828."
The circuit court gave judgment for the defendants, and
the plaintiff prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Brent and Mr Tabbs, for the
plaintiff in error; and by Mr Jones and Mr Coxe, for the defendants.
For the plaintiff in error, it was contended,
1st. The corporated existence of the Potomac Company,
was not so totally destroyed by the operation of the deed of
surrender, as to defeat the rights and remedies of its creditors.
2d. The deed of surrender violates its obligation of contract,
and can derive no legal effect from the several legislative acts
which purport to authorize it.
After the counsel for the plaintiff in error, and for the defendants, had proceeded in the discussion of the fase, the court intimated that "the agreement of the counsellcompletely covered
the first point, abd precluded any examination of it. The arguments on this point are therefore omitted.
Upoft the second point, the coui)sel for the plaintiff in error
contended, that the surrender of the property by the Potomac
Company to the Chesapeake and Ohio Company, was void, as
it operated to impair 'the lien acquired by the judgment. The
acts of the legislatures of Virginia and Maryland would be unconst~tutio~aal if such were their operation, as they would violate thecontract under which the judgment was obtained.
Upon this point the following authorities were cited. Sturges
v. C.rowninshield, 4 Wheat. 207, 5 Cond. Rep. 409; Green v.
Biddle, 8 Wheat. 84, 5 Cond. Rep. 369; Fletcher v. Peck, 6
Cranch 87, 2 Cond. Rep. 308 ; Terret v. Taylor, 9 Cranch 43,
3 Cond. Rep. 254; Town of Pawlet v. Clarke, 9 Cranch 292,
3 Cond. Rep. 408; Dartmouth College v. Wot6dward, 4 Wheat.
518, 4 Cond. Rep. 526; Calder and Wife v. Bull, 3 Dallas 286,
1 Cond. Rep. 172; Dash v. Van Kiuh, 7 Johns. 492, 499 ; 2

SUPREME COURT.
,(Mumma v. The Potomac Company.]

Gallison 139; Gilniore v. Shuter, 2 Mad. 210; 2 Lev. 227 ;
Couch v. Jeffries, 4 Burr. 2460.
Mr Jones and Mr Coxe, argued that the lien of the judgment remained, and thus no violation of the constitutional
guarantee of the vested right of the plaintiff in error was the
consequence of the surrender of the property. If the judgment
of the plaintiff could have been enforced against the property of
the Potomac Company, the same right to proceed against the
same property in the lands of the Chesapeake and Ohio Company existed.
Under this view of the case, the proceedings of the Potomac
Company could have no effect on the rights of the plaintiff in
error.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the District of
Columbia, for the county of Washington. The case presented
on the record, is shortly this.
The plaintiff in er'or, Mumnia, in June 1818, recovered a
judgment against the Potomac Company, for the sum of five
thousand dollars. No steps were taken.to enforce the payment
of the judgment, nor any further proceedings had in relation
thereto, until the 18th day of April 1828, on which day a writ
of scire facias was issued from the clerk's office of said court,
against the said Potomac Company to revive said judgment,
which case was continued by consent of parties, from term to
term, until December term of said court, in the year 1830, at
which term the following plea and statement were filed by
consent of parties. "The attorneys upon the record of the said
defendants, now here suggest and show to the court, that since
therendition and record of said judgment, the said Potomac
Company, in due pursuance and execution of the provisions of
the charter of the Chesapeike and Ohio Canal Company,
enacted by the states of Maryland and Virginia, and by the
congress of the United States, have duly signified their assent
to said charter, &c., and have duly surrendered their charter,
and conveyed in due form of law, to the said Chesapeake and
Ohio canal company, all the property, rights and privileges by
them owned, possessed and enjoyed under the same; which

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Mumma v. The Potomac Company.]

surrender and transfer from said Potomac Company, have been
duly accepted by tire Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company,
as appears by the corporate acts and proceedings of said company, and final deed of surrender from the said Potomac Cowrn
pany, dated on the 15th day of August 1828, duly executed
and recorded in the several counties of the states of Virginia
and Maryland, and tie District -of Columbia, whereip said
Potomac Company held any lands,,and.wvherein the canals and
works of said company were situated ; which, said -corporate
acts and proceedings, the said attorneys here bring into court,
&c. whereby the said attorneys say, the charter of the said
Potomac Company became, and is vacated and annulled, and
the company and the corporate franchises of the same are
extinct," &c.
Whereupon the following statement and agreement were
entered into and sigUed hy the counsel for both parties, and
made a par t of the record.
"The truth of the above suggestion is admitted; and it is agreed
to be submitted to the court, whether, under such circumstances, any judgment can be rendered against the Potomac Company upon this scire facias, reviving the judgment in said writ
mentioned, and that reference for the said corporate acts and
proceedings, atrd the deed in the above suggestion mentioned,
be had to the printed collection of acts, &c. &c., printed and
published by authority of the president and directors of the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Coiripany in 1828."
Upon this statement and agreement the circuit court gave
judgment, that the plaintiff take nothing by his writ; and
the question now is, hether this judgment is warranted by law.
Two points have been made at the bar. 1.. That the corporate existence of the Potomac Company was not so totally
destroyed by the operation of the deed of surrender, as to defeat the rights and remedies of the creditors of the company.
2. That the deed of surrender violates the obligation of the
contracts of the company, and that the legislative acts of Virginia and Maryland, though confirmed by the congress of *the
United States, are on this account void ; and can have no legal
'effect.
We think that the agreement of the parties completely covers the first point, and precludes any examination of it. That.

S1UPREME COURT.
[Nmiiima v. The Potomac Company.]

agreement admits the tiruth of the suggestions in the plea of
the attorneys for the Potomac Company; and by that it is
averred, that the charter of the Potomac Company was duly
surrendered to the. Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company,
and was duly accepted by the latter; and that thereby the
charter of the Potomac Company became, and is vacated and
annulled. And if we were at liberty to consider the last averment, not as an averment of a fact, but of a conclusion of law,
the saine result would follow ; for the thirteenth section of the
act of Virginia of January 1824, incorporating the Chesapeake
and Ohio Canal Company, declares, that upon such surrender
and acceptance, "the charter of the Potomac Company shall
be, and the same is hereby vacated and annulled ; and all the
powers and rights thereby granted to the Potomac Company,
shall be vested in the company hereby
incorporated."
Unless, then, the second point can be maintained, there is
an end of the cause ; for tlere is no pretence to say that a
scire facias can be maintained, and a judgment had thereon,
against a dead corporation, any more than against a dead man.
We are of opinion that tle dissolution of the corporation, under
the acts of Virginia and Maryland, (even supposing the act of
confirmation of congress out of the way) cannot, in any just
sense, be considered, within the claiuse of the constitution of
the United States on this subject, an impairing of the obligation of the contracts of the company by those states, any more
than the death of a private person can be said to impair the
obligation of his contracts. The obligation of those contracts
survives ; and the creditors may enforce their claims against
any property belonging to the corporation, which has not passed
into the hands of bona fide purchasers ; but is still held in
trust for the company or for the stockholders thereof, at the
time of its dissohition, in any mode permitted by the local
laws. Besides, the twelfth section of the act incorporating the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, makes it the duty of
the president and directors of that company, so long as there
shall be and remain any creditor of the Potomac Company,
who shall not have vested his demand against the same in
the stock of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company (which
the act enables him to do), to pay to such creditor or creditors,
annually, such dividend or proportion of the net amount of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Mamma v. The Potomac Company.]

the revenues of the Potomac Company, on an average of the
last five years preceding the organization of the, said Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, as the demafid of the said
creditor or creditors at that time may bear to the whole debt
of one hundred and seventy-five thousand eight hundred dollars, (the supposed aggregate amount of the debts of the Potbmac Company). So that here is provided an equitable mode
of distribuiting the assets of the company among its creditors,
by an apportionment of its revenues, in the only mode in which
it could be practically done upon its dissolution ; a mode analogous to the distribution of the assets of a deceased insolvent
debtor.
Independent of this view of the matter, it would be extremely difficult to maintain the doctrine contended for by the plaintiff in error, upon general principles. A corporation, by the
very terms and nature of its political existence, is subject to
dissolution, by a surrender of its corporate franchises, and. by a
forfeiture of them for wilful misuser and nonuser. Every creditor must be presured to understand the nature and incidents
of such a body politic, and to contract with reference to them.
And it would be a doctrine new in the law, that the existence
of a private contract of the corporation should force upon it a
perpetuity of existence contrary to public policy, and the nature
'andobjects of its charter.
Without going more at large into the subject, we are of
opinion that the judgment of the circuit court ought to be
affirmed' But as there is no sudh corporation in esse as the
Potomac Company, there can be no costs awarded to it.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United.States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
ordered, and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed without costs.

