SUPREME'COURT.

THE UNITED STATES,

APPELLANTS V. FRANCES

P.

FATIO'S

AND LouiSA HALLOWES's HEIRS.
Confirmation of a Spanish grant of land in Florida, to Philip P. Fatio.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
The case was submitted by Mr Call, .for the United States;
and by Mr White, for the appellees.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
-This was a petition presented in pursuance of the act of con,
gress, of the 23d of May 1828, providing for the adjudication
of private land claims in Florida. The petitioners state that
their claim is founded upon a grant for ten thousand acres of
land, made by the governor of the province, then under the
dominion of 1ihe king of Great Britain, to their ancestorPhilip P.
Fatio, deceased ; and that by the stipulations of the treaty between their Britannic and catholic majesties, dated the 3d of
September 1783, provision was made in the fifth article, that
the British propr-ietors should be allowed a specified period to
selltheir lands in the provinces of East and West Florida, which
were by that treaty ceded to Spain.
It was further provided, that where the value of the possessions was such, that " they should not be able to dispose
of them within the said term, then his catholic majesty shall
grant them a prolongation proportioned to that end."
Provision was also made by Spain in favour of such of the
British proprietors as remained in the province, and became
Spanish subjects. The ancestorof the petitioners remained and
took the oath of allegiance, and the lands were surveyed and
confirmed to him by the Spanish authorities.
The title was presented to the commissioners, and a report
made in favour of the grant; and by the third'section of the
act of congress, approved May the 26th 1830, it was provided,
"that all claims derived from the former British government,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Fatio's and Hallowes's Heirs.]

contained in the reports of the commissioners of East Florida,
who did not avail themselves of the treaty between Spain and
England, signed at Versailles on the 20th-of January 1783, by
leaving said province, but who remained in the same and became Spanish subjects, and, whose titles were approved by the
Spanish authorities, and have been recommended by the commissioners, or the register and receiver acting as such, be, and
the same are hereby confirmed."
The treaty referred to in the above recited act, was evidently
intended to be that of the 3d of September 1783, and the article is the fifth of that treaty, and not the third, as alleged in
the petition.
In addition to the above laws and treaties, the petitioners
have proved a possession, which constitutes a title by prescription, by the laws of Spain.
It is therefore considered, adjudged and decreed, that the
decree of the superior court of East Florida, be affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record hom the superior court for the eastern district of Florida,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree,
of the said superior court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed in all respects.

