SUPREME COURT.

WILLIAM KING,

APPELLANT

V. JOHN MITCHELL ET AL., AP-

'PELLEES.
William King, in his will, made the following devise: "In case of having no
children, I then leave and bequeath all my real estate, at the death of my
wife, to William King (the appellant), son of my brother James King, on
condition of his marrying a daughter of William Trigg and my niece Rachel his wife, lately Rachel Finlay, in trust for the eldest son or issue of
said marriage; and in case such marriage should not take place, I leave
and bequeath said estate to any child, giving preference to age, of said
William and Rachel Trigg, that will marry a child of my brother James
King, or of sister Elizabeth wife of John Mitchell, and to their issue."
Upon the construction of the terms of this clause, it was decided by this court
in 3 Peters's R. 346, that William King, the devisee, took the estate upon
a condition subsequent, and that it vested in him (so far as not otherwise
expressly disposed of by the will) immediately upon the death of the testator. William Trigg having died without ever having had any daughter
born ofhis wife Rachel, the condition became impossible. Allthe children
of William Trigg and Rachel his wife, and of James King and Elizabeth
Mitchell, are married to other persons; and there has been no marriage
between any of them, by which the devise over, upon the default of marriage of William King (the devisee) with a daughter of the Triggs, would
take effect.
The case was agair brought before the court on an appeal by William King,
in whom it had been decided the estate devised was vested in trust; and
the court held, that William King did not take a Ieneficial estate in fee in
the premises, but a resulting trust for the heirs at law of the testator.
in
trust," in. a will, may be construed to
lhere is no doubt that the words "
create a use, if the intention of the testator, or the nature of the devise requires it. But the ordinary sense of the term is descriptive of a fiduciary
estate or technical trust,; and this sense ought to be retained until the other
sense ii clearly established to be that intended by the testator. In the present ,case, there are strong reasons for construing the words to be a technical trust. The devise looked to the issue of a person not then in being,
and, of course, if such issue should come in ease, a long minority must follow. During this period, it was an object with the testator to uphold the
estate in the father for the benefit of his issue ; and this could be better accomplished by him, as a trustee, than as a guardian. If the estate to the
issue were a use, it would vest the legal estate in them, as soon as they
came in esse ; and if the first born children should be daughters, it would
vest in them, subject to being divested by the subsequent birth of a son.
A trust estate would far better provide for first contingencies than a legal
estate. There is then no reason for deflecting the words from their ordinary meaning.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

ON appeal from the district court of the United States for the
Western district of Virginia.
At January term 1830, the case of Alexander Finlay and
John Mitchell v. William King's Lessee, came before this court
on a writ of error to the district court of the United States for
the western district of Virginia, 3 Peters 346. That was an
action of ejeetment, and the question involved, and decided by
this court in it was, as to the construction of the will of William
King, deceased, formerly of Abingdon, Virginia. The suit was
instituted against the present appellees, to recover a part of the
real estate of the testator, William King, which the defendants
claimed, as two of the co-heirs of the testator, and on which
they had entered with the consent of all the co-heirs, for the
purpose of tying the title of the plaintiff, now appellant, as
devisee under the will. In that action, judgment for the land
in controversy, was:given by the district court in favour of the
plaintiff, on~j'case stated.
On tle removal of the case to this court, the judgment of the
district court was amied, and the court held, that all the-real
estate of William King, deceased, is devised -to William King,
the appellant; but the possession of part of it, which is given
to his wife and others, is postponed until her death. The.court
also proceeded to say, that " the question, whether William
King took an estate, which, in all the events that had happened,
enures to his benefit, or whether he is, in the existing state of
things, to be considered ' trustee' for the heirs of the testator,
could not be decided in that case. That question belongs to a
court of chancery ; and will be determined when the heirs shall
bring a bill to enforce the execution of the trust." 3 Peters
383.
The appellees, as.heirs at laN, of William King deceased, in
September 1830, filed a bill in the district court of western Virginia, against the appellant, William King; in which they
alleged, that the estate so devised was held by the appellant,
William King, as a mere trustee, holding the beneficial interest for the testator's heirs at law ; and they pray, that the
said William King may be compelled to execute the trust
confided to him by the said wvill, in such manner as the court
may think proper ; that the proceedings on the said judgment may be stayed, until the case-can he filly heard, and

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

that a perpetual injunction may be directed ; and that such
other and further relief, in the premises may be given, as their
case may require, and as may be consistent with the principles
of equity.
The bill also prayed for an injunction to stay proceedings on
the judgment in the'ejectment.
The district court gave a decree, according to the requirements of the bill, and the defendant appealed to this court.
The case agreed in the suit at, law, and upon which the
questions argued before the court in tiiis case wete presented,
was as follows.
"1We agree that William King departed this life on the 8th
day of October 1808, having first made and published his last
will and testament, which was afterwards admitted to record
in the county court of Washington county, in Virginia, where
he resided, and is in the words and figures following:
" . Meditating on the uncertainty of human life, I, William
King, have thought proper to make this my last will and testament, leaving and bequeathing my worldly estate in the manner following, to wit: to my beloved wife, Mary, in addition
to her legal dower of all my estate, the dwelling house and
other buil igs on lot number ten in Abingdon, where I now
reside, together with the garden,,/_rchard, and that part of my"
Fruit Hill plantation south of the great road, and lands adjacent to Abingdon, now-rented to C. Finlay & Co., and, at
my father's decease, including those in his occupancy on the
north side of the great road, for her natural life. "'I also will and declare that, in case my beloved wife, Mary,
hath hereafter a child or children by me, that the said child or
children is and are to be sole heirs of my whole estate, real and
personal, excepting one-third part of specified legacies and
appropriations hereinafter mentioned, which, in case of my
having children, will educe each legacy heieinafter mentioned
to one third part of the amount hereafter specified, and the
disposition of the real estate, as hereafter mentioned, in that
case wholly void. In case of having no children, I then leave
and bequeath all my real estate, at the death of my wife, to
William King, son of brother James King, on condition of his
marrying a daughter of William Trigg and my niece Rachel
his wife, lately Rachel Finlav, in trust, for the eldest son or

IANUARY TERM 1834.
IKing v. Mitchell et al.]
issue of said marriage ; and in case such marriage should not
take place, I leave and bequeath said estate to any child,
giving preference to age, of said William and Rachel Trigg,
that will marry a child of my brother James King, or of sister
Elizabeth, wife of John Mitchell, and to their issue; and
during the life time of my wife, it is my intention and request,
that William Trigg, James King, and her, do carry on my
business in copartnership, both salt works and merchandising,
and equal shares; and that in consideration of the use of my
capital, they pay out of the same the following legacies:
" ' To John Mitchell, on condition of his assisting and carrying on business with them, at the usual salary as formerly, viz.
one thousand dollars per year, for from two to five years, as
they may wish his assistance, an additional sum of ten thousand dollars, payable five years after my decease; and to each
of his children, on coming of age, one thousand dollars, more
than the general legacy hereafter mentioned. To Connally
Finlay a like sum of ten thousand dollars payable in five
years.
" 'To my nieces, Elizabeth Finlay and Elizabeth Mitchell,
(being called for my grandmother, with whom I was brought
up) ten thousand dollars in twelve months after marriage, provided they are then eighteen years of age, if not at the age of
eighteen; to each of my other nephews and nieces at the age
of eighteen, that is, children of my brother James, sisters
Nancy and Elizabeth, one thousand dollars each; to each of
the children of my brother Samuel, and half sister Hannah,
three hundred dollars each; as aforesaid; to my said sister Hannah, in two years after my decease, one thousand dollars'; and to
my half brother Samuel, in case of personal application to
the manager at Saltville, or to my executors in Abingdon, oL
the 1st day of January, annually, during his life, one hundred and fifty dollars ; if not called for on said day, to be void
for that year, and receipt to be personally given. It is my
wish and request that my wife, William Trigg, and James
King, or any two of them that shall concur in carrying on the
business, should join with all the young men that may reside
with me, and be assisting me in my decease, that are worthy,
or furnish them with four or five thousand dollars worth of
goods, at a reasonable advance, on a credit of from three to
VOL. vii.-2 R

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

five years, taking bonds with interest, from one year after supply. In case my brother James should prefer continuing partnership with Charles S. Carson, in place of closing the business of King, Carson & King as soon as legal and convenient,
then my will is, that William Trigg and my wife carry on the
business, one-third of each for their own account, and the remaining third to be equally divided between the children of
my brother James and sisters Nancy and Elizabeth. To my
father Thomas King, I leave, during his life the houses he
now resides in and occupies, at Fruit Hill, together with that
part of my land, in said tract north of the great road, that he
chooses to farm, with what fruit he may want from the orchard; the spring house, being intended for a wash house, with
the appurtenances, subject to the direction of my beloved wifde,
Mary; as also the orchard, except as aforesaid. I also leave
and bequeath to my father, the sum of two hundred dollars
per ajanum, during his life; and if accidentally fire should destroy his.Fincastle house and buildings, a further sum of two
hundred and twenty dollais per annum, while his income from
these would cease. I also leave and bequeath to the Abingdon
Academy the sun of ten thousand dollars, payable to the
trustees in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixteen,
or lands to that amount, to be vested in said academy, with the
interest or rents thereon, for ever.
'WILLIAm Kizq.

"'Abingdon, Virginia, 3d March 1806,
"'I hereby appoint William Trigg, of Abingdon, and James
King, of Nashville, executors of my last will and testament
enclosed; written by my own hand, and signed, this 3d day of
March 1805.
'WILLIAM KING.'

"We agree that William King, at the time of his death, was
seised and possessed of seventy-six tracts of land in the said
county of Washington, containing, in the whole, nineteen
thousand four hundred and seventyathree acres of land, on
one of which tracts is the salt works, which have, since his
death, been leased for years at the annual rent of thirty thousand dollars. Also, of nineteen lots in the town of Alingdon,
in Washington county, nine of which produced an annual rent

of six hundred and sixty dollars.

Also, of fourteen tracts of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[King V. Mitchell et al.]

land in the county of Wythe, containing three thousand four
hundred and ninety-four and a half acres. Also, of eighteen
tracts of land in the state of Tennessee, containing, in the
whole, ten thousand eight hundred and eighty acres. Also,
of shares in town lots, in several of the towns in the state of
Tennessee. We also agree that the said William King survived his father, in the said will'mentioned; that the said
William King had brothers and sisters, to wit, James King, a
brother of the whole blood ; Nancy, a sister of the whole blood,
the wife of Connally Finlay, in the will mentioned ; Samuel
King, a brother of the half blood ; Hannah, a sister of the half
blood, the wife of John Allen ; all of which brothers and sisters, before named, survived the said William King. That
another sister of the said William King of the whole blood, died
before him, and was named Elizabeth, the wife of John Mitchell, who is mentioned in the will. We agree that William
King, the lessor of the plaintiff, is the same William King, the
son of James King, brother of the testator, mentioned by him
in the will. We further agree that William Trigg, in the
will mentioned, departed this life on the 4th day of August
1813, leaving Rachel Trigg, in the will mentioned, his widow,
and four sons; the said Rachel having borne them to the said
William, and "not having borne any daughter to him, the
said William Trigg, at any time, which said sons are all living. That Mary, who was the wife of the said William King,
is still 'living, aged forty-three years, and is now the wife of
Francis Smith., We further agree that William King, the lessor
of the plaintiff, is married to Sarah Behum; that James King
had only one daughter, named Rachel Mary Eliza, who is now
the wife of Alexander M'Call ; and that Elizabeth, the wife of
John Mitchell, had only two daughters, to wit, Elizabeth, who
is now the wife of William Heiskell, and Polly, who is now
the wife of Abraham B. Trigg. We agree that William King,
the testator, died seised and possessed of the house and lot in
the declaration mentioned. We agree the lease, entry, and
ouster, in the declaration supposed, and that the defendants are
in possession of the house and lot in the declaration mentioned.
If, upon this state of facts, the lessor of the plaintiff ought to
recover at this time, we agree that judgment shall be entered
for him; and that, if the court shall be of opinion that he

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

ought not to recover until after the death of Mary, the wife of
Francis Smith; or that he ought not at any time to recover,
judgment shall be entered in favour of the defendants."
The case was argued by Mr Webster and Mr Jones, for the
appellants; and by Mr Coxe, for the appellees.
Mr Webster, for the appellant.
This court have decided, 3 Peters 383, that the legal estate,
in the property in question, has passed, under the devise in the
will, to William King, the appellant. It is given to him in
trust for the eldest son or issue of a marriage which can never
happen ; and none of the anticipations of the testator, in the
happening of which the estate would pass from the devisee,
can occur. Trust, therefore, in the case before the court,
means use. It was the intention of the testator, to vest the
w"hole estate in him; which could be divested only if persons
came into existence who would take it, and thus divest it.
This is not a case in which the words of a will are to be construed to pass a fee, but to enable a benefit to be enjoyed by
the object of the testator's bounty.
The will has been decided to be a will to divest the heirs
at law; but the object of the complainants is, to establish that
the very person who takes the estate, does so for the benefit of
the very heirs out of which it has passed by the will. This
is not a usual case, and must be shown to exist by extraordinary circumstances. It will be difficult to put this construction
on the will, as, from the beginning to the end of it, there is no
disposition to throw the estate into the hands of trustees. In
every part of it, there is a manifest purpose of placing it in the
exclusive ownership of some -one individual.
When an estate has been clearly established to have passed
out of the heir at law, it will be difficult to fix such an estate
in trust for the heir. If a trust is raised in such a case, the
estate has not passed by the will. It is apparent, that the
testator meant that William King should have the estate,
without the interference of the heirs at law, to some extent.
The general object was to give the estate to his own family,
bearing his own name, and who should be as near to him as
any one, except his brother. It is a principle of our nature, to

JANUARY TERM "1834.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

dispose of property in the descendifig, and not in the ascending
line.
If William King had married as the will provides, he would
clearly have taken a beneficial interest. This would have
been according to the very words of the will. It has been
settled, that he took the legal estate, and his holding it finally,
depended on a condition subsequent, which condition he had
his whole life to perform, unless by the extinction of the family into which he was to marry; and the will makes no provision for the holding during that time. It is now ascertained,
that the condition subsequent became impossible to be performed. Cited: 2 Peere Williams 628; 1 Cruise 469; 1 Atk.
618.
This question was argued, in the former case, by General
Smyth, and the court are referred to that argument as fully
applicable here, 3 Peters 369.
The condition of marriage is inconsistent with '" e idea of
William King being a trustee. If he had married according
to the terms of the will, he would not have been a trustee, but
would have held the estate absolutely. 2 Atk. 150; 2 Vernon
645. Cases cited in the argument of the fonimer case: 1 Peere
Williams 309; 1 Merivale 301, &c. See 3 Peters 373.
Where there is'a consideration, there cart be no resulting trust;
7 Bacon, ch. 143: and in this case the consideration was'
marriage.

Mr Coxe, for the appellees.
There are, under the will, but two questions:
1. Does William King, the appellant, take an estate in trust?
2. If he does,.how does this affect his beneficial interest in the
property so taken ?
All the contingencies having failed, who takes the estate
beneficially ?
William King took the legal estate, and held it upon a condition subsequent, which becoming impossible, the estate is as
if no condition had been annexed to it in the devise, and the
devise never-took effect. It is contended by the appellants,
that the condition attached to the equitable, as well as to the
legal estate. On the other side it is said, the condition attached only to the legal estate.

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

In support of the latter position, there is the opinion of Mr
Justice Johnson, in 3 Peters 385, 387, 389, who dissented from
the court in the case at law, and who pronounced the true interpretation of the will; and although the rest of the court
declined to indicate an opinion, yet great support, is derived
from what is said by the court.
There are two conditions. One precedent, that of the wife
of the testator.havirtg a child; and no child was born subsequent to his death : and the other subsequent, which was the
marriage of William King; and that marriage has become impossible. Thus a state of things is presented not contemplated
by the will. There being no devise over in the event of the
failure of the contingencies, the estate is vested in William
King at law, in trust for all the heirs of the testator. It was
not the intention of the testator to give any beneficial interest
in the estate to William King.
There can be no doubt, that if testator had left one child, that
child would have been the sole heir: if he had left ten children, they would have taken in equal proportion. Such are the
provisions of the will. There is nothing to indicate any intention, that if the first clause in his will had taken. effect, tire whole
estate was to pass into a single hand, or to remain undivided.
Had William King married a daughter of William Trigg, &c.,
lie as clearly would have taken the estate under the second
clause, for the condition would then have been performed. But
how, and to what extent ? Clearly, as the'will says, and as
the courts said, in trust for the eldest son or issue of that marriage. Had there been issue of that narr;age, could any doubt
have existed, but that the equitable estate would have vested
absolutely.
It is not material to discuss the possible question, whether

the eldest son would have taken to the exclusion of others ; it
is obvious, that had one son only been the fruit of that marriage, he would have been the individual upon whom the
estate would have devolved ; had there been ten daughters,
they would have all taken.
The court has said, that the will is to be construed "as if
the contemplated marriage had been actually consummated."
3 Peters 381. So it is to be construed as if the contemplated
issue had actually been born. Again, in the same opinion the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

court say, "it was not very probable, at the date of the will,
that the devisfe of this immense fortune might come into existence in less than twenty years." If William King was the
devisee, he was actually in existence. And the court must,
therefore, have considered, that not he,' but his issue by a marriage with a person then unborn, was to be the devisee.
In the exami nation of this clause we cannot but observe,
that in framing it, the testator looked to the single contingency,
that he should die without issue. He has omilted entirely to
provide for the contingency of such issue dying at an early
period of life.
So in the limitation over to the child of William and Rachel
Trigg, who might marry as provided in the will; lie has again
placed it upon the single contingency of there being no such
maniage as he had already contemplated, between William
and a dautghter of William Trigg, without adverting to the
possibility of there being no issue of such marriage, or of such
issue becoming extinct.
Had there been a child of William and Rachel Trigg who
had actually married as the testator contemplated, the limitation over to su,:h individual, would have taken effect. The
whole estate given to William King would, in that case, have
terminated. The intention of the testator is manifest and undoubted as to this point. The will, however, as the court
remarked, is to be construed as if the contemplated contingency
had actually occurred. But this rule of construction is disregarded, this intention of the testator overlooked, by adopting
the views of appellant. 3 Peters 381, 382.
If William King took the whole interest under the will, legal
and equitable, upon the condition attached to it by the testator,
that condition being a condition subsequent, its becoming impossible is to operate precisely in the same manner as its fulfilment. The fulfilment would have been by the marriage;
that marriage became impracticable.
The estate, therefore,
vesting in him,,precisely as if the condition had been performed,
it is obvious, that upon the con.4ruction contended for by the
appellant, the words, "in trust for the eldest son, or issue of
said marriage," must be erased from the will, as insensible and
nugatory. Had such issue come into existence, it could not

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell ot al.]

have affected the interest already given to William King, the
father.
It appears to us, that this would be equally repugnant to the
language of the will itself, and to the opinion pronounced by
this court. The language of the court is (p. 378), "the residue
was given to William King immediately, on the trust mentioned
in the will, or given by implication to the testator's wife, or
was permitted to descend to his heir at law." It is here distinctly asserted, that what estate William King did take, he
took in trust. And in p. 381, " his primary object then is, the
issue of a marriage between his nephew, William King, and a
daughter of William Trigg, by his then wife ;" not to vest the
whole estate in Will-am King himself, but passing him by, as
regards the beneficial interest, to look to the issue of such marriage, and provide for them. Further (p. 383), the court says,
the "intention, we think, was, to devise his whole estate to
William King in trust."
If the appellant be correct, we must go farther, we must erase
from the will, not only the expression which points to the issue
as the objects of the testator's bounty, instead of William King
himself, but the whole of the succeeding clause. For, if William King takes the whole interest, independently of any trust,
and the fulfilment of the condition, or its becoming impossible,
are equally operative; the limitation over never could have
taken effect', even although a child of William and Rachel
Trigg had married a child of James King or Elizabeth Mitchell. This is the necessary corollary from the appellant's
proposition.

The will is to be construed as if the object of the

testator had not been defeated (p. 381). The second object of
the testator, " was the issue of any marriage which might take
place, between any child of William and Rachel Trigg, and
any child of his brother James, or of his sister Elizabeth. That
both of these objects have been defeated by the course of subsequent events, does not change the construction of the will."
Not only is such thus -declared to be the intent of the testator,
but the pyovision is pronounced to be a valid one (p. 381,382).
" Had William King, the devisee, died young, or had William and Rachel Trigg died without leaving a daughter, a
fact which has actually happened, and any child of William

JANUARY TERM 1834.
rKing v. Mitchell et a].]

and Rachel Trigg had married a child of' James King, or
Elizabeth Mitchell, then the whole estate is given to such
child, and to the issue of the marriage. Had either of these
.events taken place, the estate is given from the heirs. This
is wholly incompatible with the position of appellant, that "he
did not take ab initio under the will as trustee, for any use or
purpose whatever;" but that he "took and held it beneficially
for himself." These important clauses cannot be rejected.
6 Cond. Rep. 83.
In regard to this last limitation, it is observable, that it is to
take effect upon the single contingency, that William King
should not marry as was contemplated. Had he actually so
married, this limitation over never could have taken effect;
even had he died the next day, and left no issue. The testator has not provided for the case of the marriage actually taking place, unaccompanied by issue ; or for that of such issue
becoming extinct. These events not being provided for, had
either of them occurred, the estate mi)Ust have devolved upon
the heirs.
Nor has the testator made anyprovision for anystate of things
beyond the marriage of a child of William Trigg to one of the
children of his brother or sister. The instant that state of
things occurred, the whole estate would have vested absolutely
in the individual who catie within the terms of the limitation ;
and no provision is made for any failure of issue of such marriage.
Viewing the will in this aspect, it is manifest that there were
vatious possible, nay probable contingencies, for which the testator had omitted to provide; and had either of them occui red,
the estate must have gone in the regular course of descent.
1. Had the testator died, leaving a child by his wife Mary,
and such child had survived him but a single day, the estate
mu3t have gone to the heirs of such child ; for the absolute
estate had vested, and the subsequent limitation over was to
take effect upon the single contingency of there being no such
child.
2. Had the contingency contemplated in the devise to William King, the condition expressly annexed to it, happened,
viz. his marriage ; and had there been issue, a son, of such
marriage, upon the death of that son, if its father had taken,
VOL. VII.-2) S

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et at.]

as we suppose, merely a trust for the use of such son, the estate would have gone as the law prescribes, for there is no
limitation over in such case.
3. Had there been a child of William Trigg who had married as contemplated, the absolute interest would have vested,
for nothing beyond that is provided for.
The provisions of the will are tolerably precise and distinct;
but it is owing to their particularity and minuteness of detail
that the present difficulty arises. Testators, like legislators,
succeed best, and most effectually avoid litigation, when they
avoid an enumeration of all the various circu nstances for which
they design to provide.
It must be conceded, that a state of things has occurred,
which the testator did not anticipate, and for which he did not,
as we read the will, provide. Neither one of the clauses has
taken effect, as we understand this instrument; certainly none
has taken effect in the mode he contemplated. What then is
the result ?
The result of a total ftilure of all the provisions of the will,
would necessarily be, as this court said in the former case; to
cast the real estate upon the heirs: this is so obvious-by the
doctrine of the law, that it is unnecessary to do more than distinctly to state it. All the interest in real estate which is not
clearly devised to some other person, descends to the heir. In
the application of this general principle, it is equally and wholly
immaterial, whether there was a defective execution of the will,
which prevented it from taking effect.; or an omission to include
a part of the property; or an insufficient description, either of
the thing devised, or of the party who is to take ; or the occurrence of a contingency for which testator omitted to provide ;
or a failure of the party who was designed to have the estate.
In each and all these cases the heirs will take. It is not sufficient, that the court may entertain a private opinion of the intention of the testator, or be satisfied what he would have done,
had he correctly anticipated the future. " It must," to use
the language of this court in Wright'v. Denn, " it must see
that he has expressed that intention with reasonable certainty
on the face of the will ; for the law will not suffer the heirs to
be disinherited upon conjecture. He is favoured by its policy ;
though the testator may disinherit tim, yet the law will

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[King v. Mitdhell et al.]

execute that intention only when it it is put in a clear and
unambiguous shape." 6 Cond. Rep. 80. The appellant is
here encountered by the same difficulty which presented itself
in that case. He says the intention of the teslator was, that the
heir should not take; so it is in all cases where the provisions
of the will fail from any of the causes that have been enumerated ; that it was his intention that the estate should go to a
single individual, and not be split up among numerous parties;
that this valuable estate should be retained among those who
bore his name, and inherited his blood;. among those, especially, who would re-unite his wife's blood with his own. He
may go farther than all this, and insist, that had the testator
anticipated what has occurred, he would have expressed his
intent, that appellant should take, in the clearest and most
'explicit terms. The court. must, nevertheless, say, as in
Wright v. Denn, " the testator may have intended it, and probably did ; but the intention cannot be extracted from his words
with reasonable certainty, and we have no right to indulge ourselves in mere private conjectures."
The learned editor of Powell on Devises found it necessary
to introduce a caution, "that the language of the courts, when
they speak of the intention as the governing principle, sometimes calling it ' the law' of the instrument, sometimes ' the
pole star,' sometimes ' the sovereign guide,' must always be
understood with this important limitation, that here, as in
other instances, the judges submit to be bound by precedents
and authorities in point; and endeavour to collect the intention
itpon grounds of a judicial nature, as distinguished from arbitrary conjecture." 2 Powell on Contracts 3.
Even in cases where no reasonable doubt could exist, as to
the intention of the testator in point of fact, as where, in the
will of an unlettered person, real and personal property are
comprehended in the same clause; the absolute estate in the
one passes, and only a life estate in the other. It was "in
reference to this class of cases, that Lord Mansfield, in Right
v. Sidebotham, Dougl. 759, said, -I verily believe, that almost
in every case, where by law a general devise of lands is
reduced to an estate for life, the intent of the testator is
thwarted."
In reference, however, to the will under consideration, the

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

intent, of which the appellant invokes aid, is by no means obvious or unquestionable. It is not the paramount purpose of
testator's mind. In the particular instances for which he has
expressly provided, and subject to the modifications which he
has distinctly prescribed, the intent may be recognized, but it
does not follow, that it reached beyond those contingencies.
Thus, in the particular clause under consideration, it is beyond doubt, that the testator designed the appellant to take on
the condition specified, and in trust for the issue of the contemplated marriage. This is the intention of the limitation, as
clearly indicated; but the whole of this intent must be taken
together. It cannot be logically inferred, that he was designed
to take without performing the condition, or to take discharged
of the trust. It is not by any means apparent, that the testator
regarded him as the peculiar-object of his bounty; he did not
unite in him the two distinct bloods; he is not an individual
who proceeded "from the union of his own family with that
of his wife," whom the court considered it as the primary
intention of his own family to provide for. "His primary
oject," says the court immediately after, "1is the issue of a

marriage between his nephew, William King, and a daughter
of William Trigg by his then wife," not William King himself: no such intent is expressed on the face of the will, as to
give him, in his own right, fo( his own benefit, any portion
of the estate; and until he can show title under the will, the
heir must take. Baker" v. Wood, 9 Mass. 419.
So far as any peculiar or especial object of the testator's favour can be ascertained from the face of the instrument, it was
obviously the family of William Trigg. The devise to the appellant is clogged with a condition, that he should marry a
daughter of Trigg; that clause failing, the estate is limited
by the succeeding clausc to any child of Trigg who should
marry as there prescribed. William Trigg is to have one
third of the business and capital; and he is further made executor. Yet with this especial preference, so uniformly manifested in every part of the will, the construction contended for
by the appellant, would reject the whole of this branch of the
testator's relatives.
Nor is it easy to perceive the foundation upon which the.
assertion is based, that appellant was the favoured object of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[King v. Mitchell et al.l

the testator's bounty. The clause under consideration is the
only one throughout the will in which he is named. The
whole argument involves a petitio principii; if, by the true
construction of the will, he takes the whole of this valuable
property, he is, in fact, the most favoured of the testator's family. If this construction accords with the actual design of the
testator, the argument is well founded; but the premises being
established, the conclusion becomes unimportant. If he does
not take under the will, tothe extent of his claim, there exists
no foundation for this reasoning; if he does so take, it is superfluous.
The court, in 3 Peters 380, 381, considered it as proved,
that-it was "the primary intention of the testator, to keep his
immense estate together, and to bestow this splendid gift on
some' individual who should proceed from the union of his
own family and that of his wife." If the first part of this design was alone to be regarded, it would have been equally
effected by a descent to the heir, under the circumstances
which existed at the date of the will ; for the testator's father
was then his sole presumptive heir. If the latter part of this
design is to control the construction of the will, it must be fatal
to the appellant's claim; for, as has been before rerharked, he
does not come within the description. Nor can a part of this
general design be disregarded. It will not do to carry the first
part into full execution at all events, and to reject the last,
which was far more interesting; to effectuate it so far as regards the estate itself, and to exclude that portion of -it which
looked to the person who was to receive the property.
But this inferential intention, deduced by refined reasoning
from scattered clauses in the will, furnishes an unsafe expo .
sition of the instrument. Cited, Fearne on Contingent Remainders 170, 171.
In further corroboration of these views, it is material to remark, that, according to the first limitation of this estate, the
parties who were to take, viz. his own issue, would have been
ascertained at the period of the vesting of the estate; there
was no necessity for the interposition of a trustee, to preserve
the property or to keep alive the limitation., No trustee is
therefore provided.
So, in regard to the third limitation, the individual who

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.)

was to take the benefit of it is clearly indicated-must have
been married before it could vest, and there was as little reason
for the intervention of any trustee. There was no such trustee
appointed.
The second clause is different. The party to take, according
to the testator's intention, was the unborn issue of a marriage
between parties, one of whom was yet unborn. The propriety
of creating a trustee in such case, is obvious; and that of conferring this office upon the parent of the beneficiary, equally
manifest. Such a construction, therefore, gives consistency
to the instrument, and makes its provisi9ns harmonious and
reasonable. It is one of the fundamental rules of ccnstruction,
2 Powell 5, "that all the parts of a will are to be construed in
relation to each other, and so as, if possible, to form one consistent whole." Again, p. 6, "nor can the meaning of words
be varied by extrinsic evidence."
In the clause, the words are " in trust, &c.," and we are
told, "that words, in general, are to be taken in their ordinary
and grammatical sense, unless a clear intention to use them
in another can be collected ; and they are in all cases to receive a construction which will give: them all effect, rather
than one that will render some of them inoperative." 2 Powell
p. 8. And "where a testator uses technical words, he will be
presumed to employ them in their legal sense, unless the context contain a clear indication to the contrary."
Here then appears to be a clear devise in trust, as deduced
from the examination of the will itself, and from the well
established rules of construction.
The case comes clearly
within the language of Lord Alvanley, when master of the
rolls, in Malin v. Heighly, 2 Ves. Jun. 333, where he says,
" 1 will lay down the rule as broad as this,-wherever any
person gives property, and points out the object, the property,
and the way in which it shall go, that does create a trust,
unless he shows clearly, that his desire expressed is to be controlled by the party, and that he shall have an option to defeat it."
The lord chief baron, in Meredith v. Heneage, 2 Cond.
Ch. Rep. 275, 1 Simon 542, says, that in the language just
cited, "he has extracted and stated the result of all the cases

JANUARY

TERM 1834.

[King v. Mitchell et al.]

before that time, and the subsequent caser have, it seems to
me, made no alteration."
The will contains the phrase "in trust," which Lord Hardwicke, in the case of Hill v. Bishop of London, deemed so
material, and to supersede the necessity'of raising a trust by
construction. I Atk. 620.
If the appellant, then, took what he did take in trust; if the
property thus to be held is clearly described ; if the persons for
whom he is to take are distinctly marked: the question arises,
whether, in the events which have happened, William King
has an estate which enures to his own benefit; or is he to be
deemed trustee for the heirs at law, the complainants in the
court below.
This is not a question as to the construction of the will, for
the principle is perfectly well settled, "that the construction is
not to be varied by events subsequent to the execution, 2
Powell 10; and this principle was fully recognized by this
court in 3 Peters.
It is a general principle of law which is involved, what becomes of the trust, when the objects of the creation, from any
cause, are unable to take.
To narrow down the question still more, it may be observed,
that it is an immaterial circumstance, that an express provision
is made in the will for the heir, This was a point ruled in
Ratidall v. Bookey, 2 Vern. 435, and in Starkey v. Brooks,
1 P. W. 390, 1 Ch. Ca. 196.
Nor is it at all material, that testator obviously designed to
exclude the heir from inheriting this property; for, notwithstanding such obvious intention, as the court formerly observed,
"this may be the result of a total failure of all the provisions
of the will." If this circumsiance were to operate, it would
effectually shut out the heir, in all cases of the failure of the
objects for which testator designed to provide, even if the will
had in terms excluded the heir at all events. Pugh v. Goodtitle, 3 B. P. C. 454.
if we have succeeded in establishing, as the true and legal
construction of the clause in which the appellant is named, that
he took an estate, which, in case of his marriage as prescribed,
and having issue as anticipated, wotold have enured exclusively

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

,to the benefit of such issue; we have advanced far in arriving at a solution of the present question.
It will be conceded, that there are no words in this will
which can be understood as indicating any actual intention, on
the part of the testator, to enlarge the estate originally granted
to the appellant, in case he did not marry, or leave issue of such
marriage ; on the contrary, the express language of the will
is, that the ulterior limitation was not to take effect, in case
said marriage did not take place. Whatever interest or estate
the appellant now has, he took at once ; there is no enlargement in terms.
The question then is : admitting that he took as trustee for
his own issue, in case he should have any, and therefore, as
no such issue ever came into existence, the estate designed for
them, never took effect ; and that the ulterior limitation in the
succeeding clause, in like manner, wholly failed-Do these
failures enure to the benefit of the devisee or of the heir ? Is the
estate in the hands of the devisee, discharged of the trusts ; or
the trust; having become extinct, does -the beneficial interest
descend upon the heir, as a part of the estate not disposed of
by the will .
In Vesey v. Jamson, I Simon and Stewart 69, 1 Cond.
Ch. Rep. 36, the vice-chancellor said, the testator has given
the estate " to the trustees, expressly upon trust ; and they
cannot, therefore, hold it for their own benefit. The necessary consequence is, that the purposes of the trust, being so
general and undefined that they cannot be executed by this
court, they must fail together; and the next of kin become
entitled to the property."
The heir is not to be disinherited without an express devise
or necessary implication ; such implication importing, not
natural necessity, but so strong a possibility, that an intention
to the contrary cannot be supposed." 2 Powell 5.
It is denied that the law is, that when there is a consideration, there can be no resulting trust. Cited, 3 Bro. Parl.
Cases 454.
Cited also, 1 Simon and Stewart 69; 8 Petersdorff 91;
1 Hovenden's Notes on Vesey 364 ; 12 Vesey 415 ; 2 Powell on
Devises 41, 49, 51 ; 1 Vesey and Beames, 278.

ANUARY TERM 1834.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

Mr Jones, in reply.
There might have been a period when a doubt could exist,
as to the question involved in this case, but that doubt cannot
now prevail. The principles contended for by the appellant,
have been settled in the case at law. By that decision, the
estate is, under the devise, in the appellant; and it must remain in him. The testator intended a benefit to him, and he
has it. To take the enjoyment of the estate from him, and
make him a mere trustee for those towards whom the whole
objectof the testator was to exclude them from the enjoyment of
any thing but the specific bequests, would be contrary to his
manifest purpose. His object was, to select a particular person to hold the estate, and not as a mere conduit to convey it
to others.
If the complainants below could have any estate, it would be,
a legal estate; and this on the ground, that the whole of the
objects of the will, that of limiting the property to the issue of
particular persons, have failed. The devise -was void or a
nullity. But this court have decided differently.
• The case is to be considered: 1. As it stood
at the testator's
death. 2. Whether subsequent events have changed iti situation.
It is contended by the appellees, that William King took a
mere naked trust.
1. Did he take the estate to this intent only, and answerable over for rents and profits ? If this be so, those who now
claim to be cestuis que trust, had the same interest from the
beginning; and that cannot be under the decision of the court,
that the legal estate vested in him on the death of the testator ;
and the reasoning of the court, that the whole interest in the
estate was disposed of by the will. Cited : Powell on Devises
189.
Suppose this had been a condition subsequent, and there
had been a marriage to a daughter of Elizabeth Mitchell, and
no issue; what would have been the condition of the estate?
Would not William King have held the estate for himself ?
There is no provision madc in the will for the avails of the
estate; and if William King took the estate, he had his whole
life to perform the condition ; he had the avails of the estate
in the interval given for the performance of the condition, as
VOL. viii.-2 T

SUPREME COURT.
[Kiiig v. Mitchell et al.]

his own. It is impossible to say at what period this beneficial
interest closed.
Why has it been decided that he should take the estate ?
Why not hold him to the condition ? It is because it is a condition subsequent and impossible, and the will is to be construed as if it had no conditional clauses in it. 2 Peere Williams 628 ; Corn. Dig., Condition D. p. 4; 1 Cowp. 469:
I Atk. 618.
It is important that the court should consider the legal consequences to be attached to one or other view of this bill ; and
the court will therefore decide where the equity jurisdiction
begins, and the law jurisdiction ends.
It is argued that the use of the term " trust" gives the appellees all the rights which equity will give to a cestui que
use. But these are only certain trust estates which, in courts
of chancery, are treated as estates held in trust for the use of
others. 1 Preston on Estates 142 to 190; Fearne on Conting.
Rem. 158, 159.
As to jurisdiction in cases where courts-of equity attempt to
distinguish estates held in trust fiom absolute estates: cited,
I Mad. Ch. 448, 450.
Looking at the form of the devise, taking th-' principles of
law as settled in the case, can it be said that there is an outstanding cestui que trust, who is to have the whole of the
beneficial interest in the estate of the testator, and that William King is but a bare trustee ? There is.no occasion to
create a trust for such a purpose. The appellees might hold
the property as an executory devise, or a springing use. The
court of law having given judgment in favour of the devisee
against the heirs at law, is equivalent to saying, no use
resulted to him. It would be impossible that it could be otherwise.
At the date of the will, William King was but two and a
half years old ; at the period of the testator's death he was
butfive years old, Could it, by any possibility, have been intended to make him a trustee ?
The contingency of the estate vesting, being made to depend
on the marriage of William King, and not on his having issue,
it is shown, beyond all doubt, that the marriage was a personal

JANUARY TERM 1834.

.47

[King v Mitchell et.al.]

obligation; that a personal benefit was intended to him should
he perform the marriage.
The true construction of the will is, that the
estate is given
to William King beneficially; and, on the birth of a son, or
his nhirriage according to the will, he should hold it for such
son. If no son, as if no marriage, then the estate is in him.
It was a beneficial estate to him, and an executory devise over
to a son df the marriage. He has fhe estate under the first
part of the devise, and the second has not occurred.. This is
a construction according to the spirit and purpose of the will.
It gives to the infant devisee his full benefit of the estate until
marriage and issue ; and thus provided for one who was the
object of the testator's bounty.
As to the consequences of a lapsed legacy, cited: 1 Peere
Williams 277 ; 1 Bro. Ch. Cases 61 ; 4 Vesey 802 ; 12 Vesey
415 ; 1 Vesey and Beames 276 ; 16 East 283; S. C. at law,
I Simon and Stewart 69.
A haeres factus is entitled to the same benefit as a hires
natus. Prec. in Chan. 2 ; 2 Vernon 120, S. C.; 2 Powell on
Devises 667. 668, 669 ; 2 Atk. 439, note.
It is contended, upon authority, and upon general principles,
independent of the specific intent apparent in this will to exclude the heirs-at law,. that every benefit resulting from the
failure or lapse of any charge upon the estate, or of any condition, or of any conditional limitation (such failure of condi.
ticn not going to defeat the estate itself), results to the haeres
factug of the estate, not to the hres natus ; and that either
the value or the quality of the estate in- his hands, thus enhanced by its exoneration from any such charge or condition
or limitation, is so enhanced for him and as his estate, just as
if he were heres natus : a principle so much the stronger in
its application to this case, as he is hiures factus of the whole,
not merely of a part of the real estate.
When it is once ascertained that the devisee is the person intended to be benefited, he is to have all the benefits of contingencies, and to have all the benefits which arose from relieving
the estate devised from all charges, &c. '3 Madd. Rep. 453.
Upon the effect of conditions becoming impossible, cited
2 Powell on Devises 251, 255, 263; 1 Preston on Estates 476;
1 Peere Williams 626 ; 1 Bro. Chan. Cases 528.

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This-is an appeal from a decree of the district court of the
United States for the western district of Virginia, in a case,
where the appellant was the original defendant, and the
appellees the original plaintiffs in equity.
The bill was brought by the plaintiffs, as heirs at law of
William King deceased, to obtain a perpetual injunction of a
judgment'at law, upon an ejectment, in which a recovery was
had by the appellant, of certain parcels of land, which he
claimed as devisee under the will of the said William King,
deceased. The case in which the recovery was had, came
before this court upon a special statement of facts, agreed by
the parties, at January term. 1830, and will be found reported
in the third volume of Peters' Reports, p. 346. In that case,
all the material flicts applicable to this case are set forth, and,
therefore, we pontent ourselves with a reference to it: and
the real question for decision in the present suit is ; whether,
under the will stated in that case, the present appellant took
a beneficial estate in fee in the premises; or an estate in trust
only, which trust, in the events which have happened, has
be'en frustrated, and there now remains a resulting trust for
the heirs at law of the testator. The bill asserts, that the
estate was a mere estate upon a trust, which has failed; and
that there is a resulting trust for the heirs at law ; that they
are consequently entitled to the injunction prayed for; and
to other relief, as prayed in the bill. The decree was in
favour of this construction of the will, and proceeded. to grant
the injunction, and to decree a partition accordingly.
The main clause of the will, upon which the question arises,
is in the following words: "In case of having no children, I
then. leave and bequeath all my real estate, at the death of
my wife, to William King, (the appellant) son of brother
James King, on condition of his marrying a daughter, of William Trigg and my niece Rachel his wife, lately Rachel Finlay, in trust for the eldest son or issue of said marriage ; and
in case such marriage should not take place, I leave and bequeath said estate to any child, giving preference to age, of
said William and Rachel Trigg, that will marry a child of my
brother James King's, or of sister Elizabeth's, wife of John
Mitchell, and to their issue." Upon the construction of the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

terms of this clause, it has been already decided by this court
in 3 Peters 346, that William King, the devisee, took the
estate upon a conditionsubsequent, and that. it vested in him,
(so far as not otherwise expressly disposed of by the will)
immediately upon the death of the testator. William Trigg
having died without ever having had any daughter born of
his wife Rachel, the condition became impossible. Allthe
children of William Trigg and Rachel his wife, and of James
King and Elizabeth Mitchell, are married to other persons;
and there has been no marriage between any of them, by
which the devise over, upon the default of marriage of William
King (the devisee) with a daughter of the Triggs, could take,
effect. So that the question, what estate William King took)
under the devise, whether a beneficial estate co-extensive
with the fee, or in trust, necessarily arises; for no rule of law
is better settled, than that where lands are devised in trust for
objects incapable of taking, there is a resulting trust for the
heirs at law. The only difficulty is in the application of the,
will to particular cases ; and to ascertain, whether (as L6rd
Eldon expressed it in King v. Denison, I Ves. and B. 260,
272) the devisee takes subject to a particular trust, or whethq'r
he takes it for a particular trust.
In consulting the language of this clause, it is diffictilt "to
perceive any clear intention that William King is to t ike,
under any circumstances, a beneficial interest in fee. He is
no where alluded to in the will as the primary object, of the
testatorfs 'rinty, or as, in any peculiar sense, a/favoured
devisee. The object of thi' testator, seems to have teen, to
keep his great estate together, aid to pass the inh ritance
to
some one, who should unite in himself the blood df his own
family and that of his wife, and thus becotn he
common
representative of both. He cloes not seem to have contemplated any improbability, much less any impossibility in such
an event, and therefore lie has made no provisior for the
failure of offspring from such a union. Now, look/ilg to the
the state of the families at the time when the will'was made,
is there any thing'unnatural in his expectations, )or extraordinary in his omission to provide for events apparently so remote
and speculative. We must construe the will, th~n, according
to its terms; and to events within the contemplation of the tes-

SUPREME COURT.
(King v. Mitchell et al.]

tator ; and not interpose limitations by conjecture, which he
might have interposed, if he could have foreseen, what is now
certain, the failure of the first objects of his bounty.. He gives
to William King all his real estate, on condition of his marrying a daughter of William Trigg and his niece Rachel Trigg.
And if the language had stopped here, there could be no doilbt,
that a beneficial interest in fee Could have been perfected in
him, upon his compliance with the condition, or upon its becoming impossible. But the implication of such beneficial estate, is repelled by the succeeding words. It is devised to him,
not absolutely, upon fulfilment of the condition, but "in trust
for the eldest son-or issue of *said marriage." It is manifest,
then, that the estate was not contemplated to vest in William
) King beneficially; for a trust coextensive with the fee, is given
to his issue. Arid it is (as was remarked by the chief justice
in delivering the opinion of the court in the former case, in
3 Peters 346) quite consistent with the general intention of
the testator, and his mode of thinking, as manifested in his
will, to suppose an intention, that in the mean time the profits
,should accumulate for the benefit of the issue, for whom the
6state was designed. It is as clear, that in the event that the
nharriage should not take effect, the beneficial estate was not
in'tended to en~ain with William King. The will goes.,on
to rovide for that contingency, and declares, that in case such
marriage shall not take effect, the estate shall go to any child,
giving ,preference to age, of William and Rachel Trigg, that
will mairy a child of his brother James or his sister Elizabeth.
So that, 'in the only alternative event contemplated by him,
he strips the devisee of the beneficial estate in favour of another
branch o the families, uniting the blood of both by an intermarriag . It is no obJection, that this devise over may be too
remote o be"valid in point of law. Upon that we give. no
opinion.
It is sufficient for us, that no such objection was
contempnlated by the testator ; and, so far as his intention is
,expressed'\it is coupled with a beneficial interest for others;
excluding that of William King. To create such interest in
the latter,, e must supply an intention, and not construe the
language ol the testator. We must conjecturewhat he would
have done, nd not merely decide what he has done.
It is said, \t}rat William King was a favourite nephew; and

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

.therefore, an intention to vest a beneficial estate in him, ought
to be implied. But, how does that appear in a form so imposing, as to justify such a conclusion ? There is, it is true,
no legacy given to him by the will; and therefore, it is suggested, that it could not have been the'intention of the testator
to clothe him with a barren trust. But a man-to whose
issue, in events within the immediate contemplation of the
testator, a splendid fortune was to pass, and in whomi in the
mean time, the estate was to vest for the benefit of those who
must necessarily be most near, as well as most dear'to him;
the objects of all his affections and all his anxieties-could
hardly be deemed without some adequate equivalent for his
labomus in a trust which was to centre inhim for the benefit
of his offspring. And if no marriage should-take place, which
could bring such issue into existence, the subsequent devise
over demonstrates, that William King was not even then first
in the thoughts of the testator; but the future offspring of his
relations, doubly connected by the. blood of both families.
They were second in preference only to the issue of William
King by a. Trigg, and certainly not to King himself. It has
been asked, what would have been the result, if King had
married a Trigg, and had had no issue by her? The answer
is, that the will does not look to such an event ; and as the
estate was not beneficially to vest in King in the case. of a
marriage and issue, it is quite too much to infer, that in all
other events, the'beneficial estate was to vest in him, sirply
because it is not declared to be in another. But it would be
sufficient to say, that no such marriage did take eflct; and
.upon the non occurrence of that contingency, the estate was
to pass over to other persons, by the very terms -of the will;
thus repelling the notion that King was to take a beneficial
estate where there was neither marriage nor issue.
The argument on the part of the appellant is, that the immediate devise was a beneficial estate in fee to William King,
with an executory devise over to the issue of his marriage with
a Tr'igg, if there should be any; and as that event has not

happened, theprior estate to him has never been divested.
But we do not think that this is the natural reading of the
words; and the construction is repelled by the devise over on
the failure of that marriage. In order to arrive at such a con-

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

clusion, we should be obliged to add words not found in the
will, nor implied in the context. William King is to take a
fee in trust for the issue ; and the trust is engrafted upon his
estate, and is no where said- in a given event to displace or
supersede it. It is not a devise to him for his own use in fee,
until he shall have issue, and then his use to cease, and a
trust to arise for such issue.
It is also insisted, that the words "in trust,' used in the devise, ought not to be considered as creating a mere fiduciary
estate for the issue, (if any) but as a legal use, to spring up
by way of executory devise; and that if, by reason of the failure of such use, there is a resulting estate to the heirs at law,
it is a legal use, for which their remedy is at law, and not a
fiduciary estate for them, for which the present remedy lies
in equity. There is no doubt, that the words "in trust," in
a will, may be construed to create a use, if the intention of
the testator or the nature of the devise requires it. But the
ordinary sense of the term is descriptive of a fid~uciary estate or
technical trust; and this sense ought to be retained, until the
other sense is clearly established to be that intended by the
testator. Now, we think, that in the present case, theie are
strong reasons for construing the words to be a technical trust.
The devise looked to the issue of a person not then in being;
and of course, if such issue should come in esse, a long minority must follow. During this period, it was an object with the
testator to uphold the estate in the father for the benefit of his
issue; and this could be better accomplished by him, as a trustee, than as a mere guaidian. If the estate to the issue were a
use, it would vest the legal estate in them, as soon as they
came in esse ; and if the first born children should be daughters, it would vest in them, subject to being divested by the
subsequent birth of a son. A trust estate would far better
provide for first contingencies than a legal estate. There is
then no reason for deflecting the words from their ordinary
meaning.
In cases of this sort, little aid can be gathered from the
authorities; as there rarely are such coincidences in the language of wills and'the circumstances of the cases, as to lead
unequivocally to the same conclusion. We have examined
the authorities, however, and they do not seem to us in any

JANUARY TERM 1834.

35S

[King v. Mitchell et al.]

degree to. interfere with the opinion which we entertain on
the present devise. Indeed, some of the cases strengthen
the reasoning on which we rely. But a critical examination
of them would occupy too much time. Our opinion then is,
that the estate given to William King 6f the devise in question,
is not a beneficial estate in fee, but an estate in trust fod his
issue; and that the trust having failed, there remains a resulting trust to the heirs at law of the testator, if the devise over
does not take effect.
The devise over has not as yet taken effect. There
is no
person who now answers the description contemplated in that
devise. No child of the Triggs has as yet married a child of
James King or of Elizabeth Mitchell; and in the present state
of things, such a.marriage is impossible. Whether the contingency on which this devise over was to take effect, was or
was not originally too remote to be good in point of law, because a marriage might take place between a child of the
Triggs then unborn, and a child of James King or Elizabeth
Mitchell, at a period more remote than twenty-one years after
their respective births, and yet fall within the terms of the devise,
is a question upon which (as we have already said) the court
will express no opinion. It does, however, create some embarrassment in the case. And the question is, whether, until
such event as the contemplated marriage shall happen, the
heirs are not entitled to the relief they seek, as a resulting
trust, which is at present vested in them, and which can only
be displaced, (if at all) by the actual occurrence of a marriage,
which shall take place upon a future contingency. We think
that they are entitled to the relief, leaving the case open for
the rights of any person, who may hereafter rightfully claimtitle against them under the devise over.
The decree of the district court is therefore affirmed with
costs, and the cause is remanded for further proceedings.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States, for the
western district of Virginia, and was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed, by
this court, that the decree of the said district court in this
VOL. v111.-2 U

354

SUPREME COURT.
[King v. Mitchell et al.]

cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs. And
it is further ordered and decreed by this. court, that this cause
be,:and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court,
with directions that further proceedings be had therein, according to law and justice, and in conformity to the opinion of
this court.

