SUPREME COURT.

TiE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. GEORGE

J. F.

CLARKE.

Construction of the articles'of the treaty between the United States and Spain,
ceding Florida, relating to the confirmation of grants of land made by the
Spanish authorities, prior to the treaty.
An examination of the authority of the governors of Florida, and of other Spanish officers under the crown of Spain, to grant landswithin the territory,
and of the manner in which that authority was exercised.
An examination of the legislation of the United States, on the subject of the
examination and confirmation of Spanish grants of land in the territory of
Florida, made before the cession of the same to the United States.
As the United States are not suable of common right, the party who institutes
a suit against them must bring his case within the authority of some act of
congress, or the court cannot exercise jurisdiction.
In courts of a special limited jurisdiction, which the superior court of East
Florida unquestionably is in this. case, the pleadii gs must contain averments which bring the cause within the jurisdiction of the court, or the
whole proceedings will be erroneous.
It was obviously the intention of congress to extend the jurisdiction of the
court to all existing claims, and to have them finally settled. The purpose
for which the act was made could not be otherwise accomplished. Any
claim which the court was unable to decide, on the petition of the claimant,
would remain the subject of litigation. Ths would defeat the obvious intention of congress, which ought to be kept in view in construing the act.
The words in the law which confer jurisdiction, and describe the cases on
which it may be exercised are, " all the remaining cases which have been
presented according to law, and not finally, acted upon." The subsequent
words," shall be adjudicated," &c., prescribe the rule by which the jurisdiction previously given shall be exercised.

APPEAL from the superior court of East Florida.
On-the 4th of April 1829, the following petition was filed by
the appellee in the superior court of Florida.
To the honourable the judge of the superior court for the
district and territory aforesaid, in chancery sitting :
The petition of George J. F. Clarke, a native and inhabitant of the aforesaid territory, respectfully showethThat, upon the 6th day of April in the year of our Lord 1816,
Don Jose Coppinger, then acting governor of the province of
East Florida (by virtue of authority derived from the Spanish
government), actually made to your petitioner, an absolute
title it)
fee, of five miles square of land, which your petitioner
avers, aonounts to the number of sixteen thousand acres, on the

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

west side of St John's river, near and at Black creek, and at a
place called White Spring, for and in consideration of your
petitioner having actually (before the day of the date of said
grant) constructed a saw mill, to be impelled by animal power,
which sufficiently appeared by proof to the said governor, as
is fully evidenced by the tenor of the grant aforesaid, and as a
reward, for the industry and ingenuity of your petitioner in the
constructing of the aforesaid saw mill, and for other causes
and considerations in said grant set forth, all of which will
more fully appear by reference to said grant, a certified translation whereof will in due time be filed herewith, and exhibited to this honourable court, and prayed to be made a part
hereof.
Your petitioner further showeth, that, finding there was not
vacant land at the place aforesaid suiting his wishes, sufficient
to make the amount or number of acres aforesaid granted to
him, he did, on the 25th day of January 1819, file a memorial
before the aforesaid governor Coppinger, praying to be allowed
to survey eight thousand acres of said grant on other vacant
lands ; and that, by a decree or grant of the aforesaid governor.
Don Jose Coppinger, bearing date on the 25th day of January
1819, the prayer of your petitioner was accorded to him, as will
fully and at large appear, by reference to a translation of a
document herewith filed.
Your petitioner further states that, in pursuance of, and in
accordance with the grant first before referred to, and the subsequent grant amendatory thereto, the said lands were surveyed
tohim in three surveys. One of eight thousand acres, at a
place in the original grant named, on the west shore of St
John's river, beginning at a stake at Picolata ferry landing,
and running south eighty-two degrees west one hundred and
ten chains, to a pine ; second line, north fifteen degrees .west
one hundred and twenty-three chains, to a pine; third line, north
,five degrees east one hundred and twenty-three chains, to a
pine; fourth line, north thirty-five degrees west one hundred and
seventy-five chains, to a pine; fifth line, north eighty-two degrees west one hundred and fifty-four chains, to a pine ; sixth
line, north sixty degrees west one hundred and seventy-four
chains, to a pine ; seventh line, north twenty-five degrees east
one hundred and twelve chains, to a stake on the south side of

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

Buckley creek at the mouth, and thence with the meanders of
St John's river to the beginning. One other survey of three
thousand acres, situated in and about Cone's hammock, to the
south of Mizzell's, or Orange lake, beginning at a stake, and
running thence, south seventy degrees east one hundred and
sixty-three chains ninety-two links, to a pine ; second line,
south twenty degrees west one hundred and twenty-two
chains fifty links, to a hickory ; third line, north seventy degrees west one hundred and twenty-two chains fifty links, to
a red bay ; fourth line, north fifty-eight degrees west one
hundred and forty-four chains, to a pine; fifth line, north
twenty degrees, east ninety chains seventy-one links, to the
beginning, And one other survey of five thousand acres, situated in Lang's hammock, on the south side of Mizzell's or
Orange lake. Plats and certificates of all which surveys will
in due time be filed and exhibited herein: the lands herein
designated, all being and lying within the jurisdiction of this
court.
Your. petitioner further states, that his aforesaid claim was
filed before the board of commissioners appointed to ascertain
claims and titles to lands in East Florida, who, as he is informed
and believes, have refused to recommend the same to the
favourable notice of the United States government ; and have
rejected the same, but have not reported it forged or antedated.
But your petitioner is advised and believes, and alleges and
avers, that, by and under the usages, customs, laws and ordinances of the king of Spain, he is entitled to, and invested with
a complete and full title in fee simple, to the lands so as aforesaid granted to him; and that, by the treaty between Spain
and the United States, of the 22d February 1819, the United
States are bound to recognise and confiEm to him his aforesaid
title, in as full and ample a manner as he had or held the same
under the Spanish government. Without this, as far as your
petitioner is advised, the United States are the rightful claimants to said lands.
And your petitioner prays, in consideration of the premises,
that this honourable court will take jurisdiction of this his petition, and that a copy hereof, and a citation to show cause, &c.
may be served on Thomas Douglass, Esquire, United States
district attorney for this district, pursuant to the provisions of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke]

the statute in such cases made and provided ; and, finally, that
your honour will decree to your petitioner a confirmation of
his title to the lands in this his petition claimed, and all such
further and other relief as in equity he is entitled to ; and your
petitioner, as in duty, &c.
On the 25th January 1819, the claimant presented a petition
to the governor of the province, setting forth that the land in
the neighbourhood of White Spring, which had been granted
to him, did not atswer his expectation, and praying that the
surveyor appointedto survey the land granted to him, might
be directed to alter the survey, so as to reduce the square of
five miles to the depth of about two and a half miles, by its
original length of five miles ; and that the surveyor might be
further instructed to survey the residue of the quantity granted
to the petitioner, "in the hammock, called Lang's and Cone's,
situated on the south of Mizzell's lake." On the same day,
the 25th day of January 1819, the governor granted.the request
of the petitioner.
On the 24th of February 1819, the surveyor gave a certificate, that he had surveyed to the petitioner, eight thousand
acres of land, west of the river St John's, beginning at the
mouth of Berkley creek, below White Spring, and following
upwards the margin of said river, &d.
On the 10th of March 1819, the said surveyor gave another
certificate, that he had surveyed for the petitioner, five thousand acres of land, in the place called Lang's hammock, situated south of Mizzell Lagoon, west of the riter St John's, in
part of a greater quantity granted to the said petitioner, on the
6th of April 1816.
On the 12th of March 1819, the said surveyor gave another
certificate, in which he states that he had surveyed to the
petitioner, three thousand acres of land, in the place called
Cone's hammock, being the complement of a greaterquantity
which was granted to him on the 6th of April 1816.
The following copies of the petition, decree and grant were
annexed to the petition.
(Translation.) Memorial. To the Governor: Don George
Clarke, a native of this province, with due respect, presents
himself to your honour, and says that, having noticed the con,
stant scarcity of saived lumber in thk provinee, and parlicit

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

larly at this town, which, in consequenceof the scantiness of
this indispensable material, .has but half of the 'population that it
ought to have ; and induced by the general advantages that
may result from mills worked by animals over those worked by
water, wind, or fire, because they are less expensive, more secure,
and adapted to anystation, he has accomplished one at this town
of his own invention and workmanship, which, with four horses,
saws eight lines at a time, at the rate of two thousand superficial feet per day. Therefore, he prays that your honour will be
pleased to grant him a title of property to the quantity of land
your honour had thought proper to assign to the water mills
for their contlifual supply, forming a quantity equivalent to a
five mile square; which lands he solicits on the western part
of the St John's river, above Black creek, at a place entirely
vacant, known by the name of White Spring. He hopes to receive this gtant from your honour's kindness, because, by this
proof of his industry and labour, he has given to the public
an invention that by its expediency, simplicity, and cheapness,
offers from this source of lumber the most considerable advantages not only to the royal revenue, but to the public also, by
the labour of cutting, use, and commerce.
Fernandina, March 16, 1816.
P.D. For proof of what I have stated to your honour, I
herewith present a certificate of the civil and military commander of this town, ut supra.
GEORGE J. F.
CLARKE.
Grant to Clarke' for sixteen thousand acres. Decree. St
Augustine, April 3, 1816. This government have granted
lands to other individuals, inhabitants of this province, who
have solicited them fo1t'tle cutting of timber- and the use of
the same for the saw mills or machines that they intend'to'establish, but with the condition of being without effect until these
establishments be made. And whereas Don George Clarke
proves, by certificate of the commander of the town of Fernandina, that he has constructed a mill of greaf utility, that,
offers advantages to that settlement, which it is the duty and
interest of government to promote in coi'pliance with royal
orders despatched for that purpose, rewarding the industrious
and laborious as an example to encourage other inhabitants,
and precure the increase of invention,: it is granted to the afore-

JALUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

said Don George Clarke, the five miles square of land that he
solicits, of which a title shall be issued comprehending the
place, and under the boundaries set forth in this petition, without injury to a third person.
COPPINGER.

(Translation.) Title of property of five miles square of land
to Don George Clarke. Don Jose Coppinger, lieutenant colonel of the. royal army, civil and military governor pro ternpore, and chief of the royal domain of this city and its province,
&c. : Whe'eas, by a royal order communicated to this government, on the 29th October 1790, by the captain general of the
island of Cuba and the two Floridas, it is provided, among other
things. that, to foreigners who of their free will present themselves to swear allegiance to our sovereign, there be granted to
them lands gratis in proportion to the workers that each family
may have; and whereas Don George Clarke, inhabitant of
the town of Fernandina, has presented himself, manifesting
that he has constructed, from his own ingenuity, a machine
that, with four horses, saws eight lines at one time, cutting
two thousand superficial feet of timber in a day, and soliciting,
in virtue thereof, a grant in absolute property of five miles
square of land for a stock and supply of timber, which is the
portion that has been granted for water saw mills; and having
pointed out a competent tract of the west side of St John's
river, above Black creek, at a place called White Spring, that
is vacant, which etablishment of said machine .has been
proved by a certificate of the civil and military commandant of
the town of Fernandina: therefore, and in consideration of
the advantages arising from such improvements in this said
province, and in order that, by rewarding the industrious and
ingenious, it may serve as an example and stimulus to other
inhabitants, I have found proper, by my decree of the third of
the present month, to order the issue of a competent title of
property of said five miles square of land, as will appear more
fully by the proceedings had on the occasion, and existing in
the archives of the present notary. Therefore, I have resolved
to grant, as in the name of his majesty I do grant, to the said
George Clarke, the aforementioned five miles square of land
for himself, his heirs, and successors, in absolute property ;
and I do issue, by these presents, a competent title, wherebv.1
VOL, VIII -3

r

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v, Clarke.]

separate the royal domain from the right and dominion it had
to said lands, and I cede and transfer the same to the said
George Clarke, his heirs and successors, to possess them as
their own, and to use and enjoy them without any incumbrance or tribute whatever, with all their inlets, outlets, uses,
customs, rights, and services, which they have had, have, and
by custom or law may have, or in any wise may appertain to
them and at their will, to sell, cede, transfer, and dispose of
them at their pleasure. To all which I interpose my authority
as I can, and and of right ought to do, by virtue of these presents and the sovereign will. Given under my signature, and
countersigned by the notary of government and royal domain
in this city of St Augustine of Florida, on-the 6th April 1816.
JOSE COPPINGER.

By order of his Excellency.
JUAN DE ENTRALGO,

.Notarypro tern. of Gov. and Royal Domain.
The answer of the United States district attorney expressly
denies that by and under the usages) customs, laws, and ordinances of the king of Spain, the petitioner is entitled to, and
vested with a full and complete title in fee simple, or any other
title whatever to the said land, and that the supposed grant
to the said petitioner is entirely null and void.
The answer further denies, that governor Coppinger had
any power or authority whatever to make such a grant; and
that if such a grant was ever, made to the petitioner, it wa?
made in violation of the laws,.ordinances, and royal regulations of the Spanish government.
The decree of the court below confirmed the claim of the
petitioner not to the land described, and which, if any, was
vested in the said petitioner by the grant of governor Coppingr, dated the 6th of April 1816, but other lands described
by the surveyor in his several certificates, dated the 24th of
Fepruary, and 10th and 12th of March 181.9.
The case was argued byMr Call, for the United.States; and
by Mr Berrien and Mr Wilde, for the appellee.
The counsel for the United States presented the follo,ving
grounds for the consideration of the court, and on which they
contend the decree of the court below should be reversed.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarks.]

1. The petitioner has not described on the record such a
case as is embraced by the jurisdiction expressly conferred by
statute on the superior court of East Florida.
2. The petitioner cannot show that.he has such a claim to
land in Florida; as gives him a right to prosecute his suit for
its confirmation against the government under the provisions
of the acts of congress of 1824 and 1828,*conferring jurisdiction in certain cases on the superior courts of Florida.
3. The governor of the province of East Florida had no
power or authority under the laws, ordinances and royal regulations of Spain to make the grant in question.
4. If the governor possessed the power of making the said
graitt on the 6th day of April 1816, the eighth article of the
treaty having barred all grants made subsequent to the 24th
of January 1819, he had no power on the 25th of January
1818, to substitute other lands of a superior quality at a remote
distance for those which were granted to the petitioner on the
6th of April 1816.
5. The change of location on the 25th of January 1819,
was equivalent to the power of making a new grant, and the
act is void under the provisions of the treaty. The lands
claimed by the petitioner, and embraced in the second and
third surveys, were vacant lands on the 2 Ith of January 1818,
and were by the second article ofthe treaty of 1819 transferred
to the United States. (a)
The counsel for the appellee considered that the several
points arising in this case have been already decided by this
court in the cases of The United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters
691, and The United States v. Perebeman, 7 Peters 51. and
contended:
1. That the gyant of governor Coppinger vests in the claimant a full and absolute title in fee to the premises in controversy.
2. That the authority to grant land to foreigners is in addition to, and does not exclude, the right to grant for good cause
to the subjects of Spain.
(a) Mr Call, counsel for the United States, afterwards laid before the court
a printed argument, applicable to thie and the subsequent cases. It will be
found in the appendix to this volume.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

3. That the general authorityof the governor being ascertained, he alone was competent to decide upon the sufficiency
of the considerations on which this grant was founded.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In April 1829, George J.. F. Clarke, the defendant in error,
filed his petition in the court of the United States, for the eastern district of Florida, praying that court to decree a confirmation of his title to sixteen thousand acres of land, granted, to
him on the 6th day of April 1816, by Don Jose Coppinger,
then acting governor of the province of East Florida.
The attorney for the district appeared, and by his answer
denied all the material allegations of the petition.
Several exhibits were filed, and several depositions were
taken; and in May term 1J832, the court adjudged the claim
of the petitioner to be valid; from which judgment the district
attorney, on behalf of the United States, prayed an appeal to
this court.
As the United States are not suable of common right, the
party who institutes such suit must bring his case within the
authority of some act of congress, or the court cannot exercise
jurisdiction over it. The counsel for the United States contends, that George J. F. Clarke has not by his petition made
.a case in which the United States have consented to be sued;
and, consequently, that the court of the district had no jurisdiction. To maintain this objection, he has stated several
principles, and citod several decisions of this court in support
of them. The proposition, that in courts of a special limited
jurisdiction, which that of East Florida unquestionably is in
*this case, the pleadings must contain averments which bring
the cause within the jurisdiction of the court, or the whole
proceeding will be erroneous, is admitted. The inquiry is,
does the petition of George J. F. Clarke contain these averments.
Florida contained an immense quantity of vacant land which
the United States desired to sell. Numerous tracts, in various
parts of this territory, to an amount not ascertained, had been
granted by its former sovereigns, and confirmed by treaty. To
avoid anyconflict between these titles and those which might
be acquired under the United States, it was necessary to ascer-

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

tain their validity, and the location of the lands. FoF this
purpose boards of commissioners were appointed, with extensive powers, and great progress was made in the adjustment
of claims. But neither the law of nations, or the faith of the
United States, would justify the legislature in authorizing these
boards to annul pre-existing titles, which might consequently
be asserted in the ordinary courts of the country, against any
grantee of the American government. The powers of the
commissioners therefore were principally directed to the attainmient of information, on which they might report to congress,
who generally confirmed all claims on which they reported
favourably. After considerable progress had been thus made
in the adju'stment of titles, congress, on the 26th of May 1830,
passed an act for the final settlement of land claims in Florida
This act, after confirming titles to a considerable extent, which
are described in the first, second and third sections, enacts that
all the remaining claims which have been presented according
to law, and not finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and
finally settled upon the same conditions, restrictions and limitations, in dvery respect, as are prescribed by the act of congress, approved 23d of May 1828, entitled, "An act," &c.
It was obviously the intention of congress to extend the
Jurisdiction of the court to all existing claims, and to have them
finally settled. The purpose for which the act was made
could not be otherwise accomplished. Any claim which the
court, was unable to decide on the petition of the claimant,
would remain the subject of litigation. This would defeat the
obvious intention of congress, which ought to be kept in view
in construing the act.
The words which confer jurisdiction, and describe the cases
on which it may be exercised, are "all the remaining cases
which have been presented according to law, and not finally
acted upon." The svbsequent words "shall be adjudicated,"
&c. prescribe the rule by which the jurisdiction previously
given shall be exercised.
The 'petition of Clarke, after showing his title under the
government of Spain, adds, "your petitioner farther states,
that his aforesaid claim was filed before the board of commissioners, appointed to ascertain claims and titles to lands in East
Florida, who, as he is informed and believes, refused to recorn-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. ClarkeJ

mend the same to the fhvourable notice of the United States
government; and ,iave rejected the same, but have not reported
it forged or ante-dated." Do these averments satisfy the requisites of the statute ?
The act requires that it shall "have been presented according to law, and not finally acted upon." ,The petition states,
"that it was filed before the board of commissioners," which
is presenting it " according to law;" and then proceeds to state
the.action of the board upon it. That action is not by law
made final, consequently the case is one of those which the
court is directed to adjudicate and finally settle, on the principies contained in the act of 1828. Any defect in the title as
exhibited, will be considered in deciding on the right, but does
not constitute an objection to jurisdiction.
The title, as set out in the petition and exhibits filed with it,
is as follows:

On the 16th of March 1816, George J. F. Clarke, styling
himself a native of the province, presented a memorial to the
governor of East Florida, in which he states the service lie
has rendered the public, by inventing and constructing a saw
mill of great execution, and prays, in consideration thereof, a
grant of the quantity of land which his honour had thought
proper to assign to the water mills, equivalent to five miles
square; which land he solicits on the western part of St John's
River, above Black Creek, at a place entirely vacant, known
by the name of White Spring.
On the 3d of April the governor made a decree, in whichi
after reciting that he had granted lands to other individuals on
account of saw-mills or machines to be erected, but with condition of being without effect until the establishments be made,
and that Clarke had exhibited proof of the actual erection of a
mill of great utility, grants to the said George Clarke the five
miles square of land that he solicits, "of which a title shall be
issued, comprehending the place, and under the boundaries set
forth in this petition, without injury to a third person."
The title was issued on the sixth of the same month. It
recites that " whereas by a royal order communicated to the
government on the 29th of October 1790, by the captain-general of the island of Cuba and the two Floridas, it is provided,
among other things, that to foreigners who, of their free will,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.)

present themselves to swear allegiance to our sovereign, there
be granted to them lands gratis,. in proportion to the workers
that each family may have; and whereas Don George Clarke,.
inhabitant of the town of Fernandina, has presented himself,
manifesting that he has constructed, ftom his own ingenuity,
a machine that, with four horses, saws eight lines at one time,
cutting two thousand superficial feet of timber in a day, and
soliciting in virtue thereof a grant ihabsolute property of five
miles square of land," &c.;" therefore, and in consideration of
the advantages arising from such improvements in this said
province, and in order that, by rewarding the industrious and
ingenious, it may serve as an example and stimulus to other
inhabitants. I have found proper, by my decree of the third of
the present month, to order the issue of a competent title of
property of said five miles square of land, as will more fully
appear," &c. "Therefore I have resolved to grant, as in the
name of his majesty I do grant," &c.
An order to survey the land contained in this grant was
given by the governor on the 29th of December 1818.
Afterwards, on the 25th of January 1819, Clarke presented
a memorial to the governor, stating that the quantity of land
required for his purpose could not be obtained at the place
designated, and praying that the depth back might be contracted to about one and a half miles, and the residue be surveyed at a different place described in the memorial. This
prayer was granted, and surveys were executed and returned,
placing eight thousand acres on the ground described in the
decree and grant, and the remaining eight thousand acres, in
two surveys, on the ground designated in the memorial of the
25th of January 1819.
The counsel for the United States contend, that the grant
made to the petitioner, by the governor of East Florida, is void,
because he had no power to make it.
The royal order of the 29th of October 1790, which is recited in the grant of the 6th of April 1816, most certainly does
not authorize that grant. It was avowedly made for the
purpose of inviting foreigners into the province, and Clarke
was an inhabitant. It limited the quantity of land to be granted to a fixed number of acres for the workers that each family
may have; and it is not doubted that the quantity actually

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

contained in the grant far exceeded the quantity authorized by
that order. It is too plain for argument that, if the validity of
tie grant depends on its being in conformity with the royal
order of 1790, it cannot be supported. But we do not think it
does depend on that order.
Although the order is recited,. the grant does not profess to
be founded on it. That it is not, is most apparent. The grant
immediately proceeds to recite that Clarke is an inhabitant of
Fernandina, which would of itself defeat his application if depending on the order in favour of "foreigners who of their free
will present themselves to swear allegiance to the sovereign"
of the grantor. It then proceeds to state the real motive for
which it is made. It is that he has constructed a machine of
great value. It is for this, and not for his being willing to
swear allegiance to. the king of Spain, that he solicits the
grant. "1Therefore," proceeds the grant, "and in consideration of the advantages arising from such improvements in this
said province, and in order that, by rewarding the industrious
and ingenious, it may serve as an example and stimulus to
other inhabitants, I have found proper, by my decree of the
third of the present month, to order the issue of a competent
title," &c. "Therefore," that is in execution of the decree of
the third, 1"I have resolved to grants" &c.
The grant, then, of the 6th of April is avowedly made in
execution of the decree of the 3d. That decree contains
no allusion to the royal order of October 1790, but professes to
be founded entirely on the motives afterwards expressed in
the grant itself in addition to that order.
We cannot think, that the recital of a fact entirely immaterial, on which fact the grant d'oes not profess to be founded,
can vitiate an instrument reciting other considerations on
which it does profess to be founded, if the matter, as recited,
be sufficient to authorise it.
Without attempting to assign motives for the recital of that
order, we are of opinion, that, in this case, the recital is quite
immaterial, and does not affect the instrument. The real
inquiry is, whether governor Coppinger had power to make it.
By the second article of the treaty of the 22d of February
1819, between the United States of America and Spain, his
catholic majesty cedes co the United States, in full property

JANUARY TERM 1834.
" [United States v. Clarke.]

and sovereignty, all the territories which belong to him situated on the eastward of the Mississippi, known by the name of
East and West Florida.
This article undoubtedly transfers to the United States, all
the political power which our government could acquire, and
all the royal domain held by the crown of Spain; but has
never been supposed, so far as is now understood, to operate
on the property of individuals. This court has uniformly
expressed the opinion that'it does not.
The eighth article Was not intended to enlarge the cession.
Its principal object is to secure certain rights existing at the
time, but not complete. It stipulates that all the grants of
land (in Spanish "concessions of land") made before the 24th
of January 1818, by his catholic majesty, or by his lawful
authorities in the said territories, ceded by his majesty to the
United States, shall- be ratified and confirmed (in Spanish,
shall remain ratified and confirmed) to the persons in possession of the lands (in the Spanish, in possession of them, that
is, of the concessions) in the same extent that the same grants
(in Spanish, they) would be valid, if the territories had remained
under the dominion of his catholic majesty.
It may be worth observing, that the language of the article
is not "all grants made by his catholic majesty, or by his lawful authority," which might perhaps involve an inquiry into
the precise authority or instructions given by the crown to the
person making the grant, and might impose on the claimant
the necessity of showing that authority in each case, but "by
his catholic majesty, or his lawful authorities in the said territories ceded by his majesty to the United States." That is,
by those persons who exercised the granting power by authority of the crown. This is the generally received meaning of
the words. They are equivalent to the words, competent
authorities, used in their place by the king of Spain in his
ratification of the treaty.
It may be also not entirely unworthy of remark, that this
article expressly recognises the existence of those "lawful
authorities" in the ceded territories.
It is not unreasonable to suppose that his catholic majesty
might be unwilling to expose the acts of his public and confidential officers, and the titles of his subjects acquired under
VOL. VII,-3 G

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

those acts, to that strict and jealous scrutiny which a foreign
government, interested against their validity, would apply to
them, if his private instructions or- particular authority were to
be required in every case, and that he might, therefore, stipulate for that full evidence to the instrument itself which is
usually allowed to instruments issued by the proper officer.
The subject matter of the article, therefore, furnishes no
reason for construing its words in a more restricted sense than
that in which they are uniformly used and understood. In that
sense, they mean persons authorised by the crown to grant lands.
The subsequent part of the sentence may, in some degree,
qualify their meaning. The added words are, "to the same
extent that the samf, grant (they),would be valid, if the territories had remained under the dominion of his catholic majesty."
If this part of the sentence was intended as a limitation of
the general provision which precedes it, the subject matter of
the article may serve in some measure to explain it.
The general word ' grant" may coiiprehend both the incipient and the complete title. The greater number of those in
Florida appear to have been of the first description. Many of
these contained conditions, on the. performance of which the
right to demand a complete title depended. Without this
qualification, the article might have been understood to make
these conditional concessions absolute. Therefore, they are
declared to "be ratified and confirmed," to the same extent
that the same grants (they) would be valid if the territories
had remained under the dominion of his catholic majesty."
The parties add, (continuing the idea) "but the owners in
possession of such lands (the proprietors) who, by reason of
the recent circumstances of the Spanish nation, and the revolutions in Europe, have been prevented from fulfilling all the
conditions of their grants (concessions) shall complete them
within the terms limited in the same respectively from the
date of this treaty; in default of which, the said grants (they)
shall be null and void."
But wh6ther the intention of that part of the article which
declares the extent to which the titles it contemplates shall
be valid, is limited to the conditions inserted in them, or qualilies the general preceding words, it cannot vary the sense of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

the term "lawful authorities," nor warrant the construction
that a title derived from "a lawful authority" creates no presumption of right, and leaves the holder under
the.necessity
of proving every circumstance which would be required to
support it, had it proceeded from a person not holding an
office on which the power of granting lands had been conferred.
These titles are to be valid to the same extent as if the territories had not been ceded. What is that extent! A grant
made by a governor, if authorized to grant lands in his province, is prima facie evidence that his power is not exceeded.
The connection between the crown and the governor, justifies
the presumption that he acts according to his orders. Should
he disobey them, his hopes are blasted, and he exposes himself to punishment. His orders are known to himself and to
those from whom they proceed, but may not be known to the
world.
Such a grant, under a general power, would be considered
as valid, even if the power to disavow it existed, until actually
disavowed. It can scarcely be doubted, so far as we may
reason on general principles, that in a Spanish tribunal, a grant
having all the forms and sanctions required by law, not actually annulled by superior authority, would be received as evidence of title.
We proceed then to inquire into the power of the
governor
of East Florida.
It will not be material to ascertain the rules by which lands
were granted to the first settlers of America, or the officers
from whom titles emanated. So early as the year 1735, an
ordinance was passed by which the king reserved to himself
the right of completing the titles given by his provincial officers.
The inconvenience resulting from this regulation was so
seriously felt, that the ordinance was repealed in 1754, and
the-whole power of confirming, as well as originating titles,
was transferred to officers in the colonies. The power of
appointing sUb-delegate judges, to sell and compromise for the
lands and uncultivated parts of the dominions of the Spanish
crown in the Indies, was declared to belong to the viceroys
and presidents of the 'royal audiences of those kingdoms; and

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

the same royal order directed that "in the distant provinces of
the audiencias, or where sea intervenes, as Caraccas, Havana,
Carthagema Buenos Ayres, Panama, Yucatan, Cutnana, Mar'garita, Puerto Rico, and in others of like situation, con~firmations shall be issued by their governors, with the advice of
the officiales reales (the king's fiscal ministers) and of the
lieutenant general, hateado, where he may be stationed.
In 1768, this power of granting and confirming titles to
lands was vested in the intendants.
In 1774, it was revested in the civil and military governors
(see White's Compilation 218). In October 1798, this power
was again conferred on the intendant, so fir as respected
Louisiana and West Florida; but this order did not extend to
East Florida. In that province it reihained in the governor.
Thi regulations of the governors O'Reilly and Gayoza, and
the proceedirgs of the governors Quisata, Estrada, White,
K-indelan and Coppinger, of East Florida, and all the grants
which have been brought to the view of this court, together
with the reports of the commissioners appointed to adjust land
titles in the territories ceded by Spain, show, that from the
year 1774, the power of granting lands was vested in the
governors, both of Louisiana and the Floridas. The ordinance
of 1798, wh'ch transferred it to the intendant of Louisiana and
West Floiida, did not extend to East Florida: consequently
it remained with the governor of that province.
This is admitted by the counsel for the United States.
So far then as respects East Florida, the term "lawful
authorities" designates the governor as certainly as if he had
been expressly named in the eighth article of the treaty. He
is the officer who was empowered by his sovereign to make
grants of lands in that province, and in ceding the province to
the United States, his sovereign has stipulated that grants
made by him shall be as valid as if the province had remained
under his dominion.
It has been already stated that the acts of an officer, to
whom a public duty is assigned by his king, within the sphere
of that duty, are, prima facie, taken to be within his power.
This point was fully considered and clearly stated by this
court in the case of Arredondo, and the principles on which
the opinion rests are believed to he too deeply founded in law

JANUARY TERM 1834
[United States v. Clarke.)

and reason ever to be successfully assailed. He who would
cofitrovert a grant executed by the lawful authority, with all
the solemnities required by law, takes upon himself the burden of showing that the officer has transcended the powers
conferred upon him, or that the transaction is' tainted with
fraud.
This the counsel for the United States undertakes to do.
He insists that governor Coppinger has transcended his powers
in making the title now under consideration for a larger quantityof land than he was empowered to grant, and on a consideration not warranted by law.
The object of' Spain, as of all the European powers who
made settlements in America, was to derive strength and revenu from her colonies. To accomplish this, grants of lands
to individuals became indispensable. History informs us that
this measure was adopted by all. The immense territories held
by Spain, affording an almost 'inexhaustible fund of lands
claimed by the crown, could scarcely fail to pioduce large
grants to favourites, as well as a regular system for inviting
population into her colonies. The viceroys in New Spain and
Peru, who were also governors, possessed almost unlimited
powers on this and other subjects ; but in distant provinces, or
where sea intervenes, the right of giving title to lands was
vested in their' governors with the advice of the king's fiscal
ministers and of the lieutenant general, where he may be
staticned. No public restraint appears to have been imposed
on the exercise of this power. The officer and his conduct
were of course under the supervision and control of the king
and his ministers, and especially of his council of the Indies.
In 1735, this power was wiihdrawn from the provincial
officers, but was restored to them in 1754. ' Wh. Comp. 49.
Clarke's Land Laws 973. The royal order of 15th October
1754 confers this power in general terms without. any limitation on the quantity or on the consideration which may move
to the grant. It would excite surprise if, in a monarchy like
that of Spain, no rewards in land could be granted for extra
services, and nofavours could be bestowed. Amiong the earliest
laws for the government of America (Wh. Comp. 30) is an order that the viceroys of Peru and Mexico ",grant such rewards,

favours and compensation as to them may seem fit."

A sub-

SUPREME COURT
[United Statesv. Clarke.]

sequent order (Wh. Comp. 41), after directing extensive dispositions of territory,. adds, "all the remaining land may be
reserved to us, clear of any incumbrance, for the purpose of
being given as rewards, or disposed of according to our pleasure." In White's Comp. 29, we find the following law : "it
is our pleasure that services be remunerated where they shall
have been performed, and in no other place or province of the
Indies."
It would seem that these remunerations, if in land, would
be made by the governor, when empowered to grant them,
provided no other officer was designated.
Two letters of the 3d of April 1800, from an officer authorized to grant lands, are published in Clarke's Land Laws 989,
which would seem to countenance the opinion that they did
not consider their powers as limited to small quantities, but
that they might exercise discretion in this respect. They are
written by the attorney-g&neral under Morales. The first, addressed to Don Henry Peyroux, is in these words: "I have
to reply to your communication No. 9, that I cannot at this time
consent to the sale of lands in the manner and under the circumstances requested ; and I have to make the same reply to
that of the 6th of February last, No.'8, in which you ask for
o0ne hundred thousand arpens."
The language of this letter is rather that of a man who has
-exercised his discretion on a subject to which his power extends, than of one who might at once repel the application by
referring to tle orders of his sovereign. The second letter is
of th, same character.
A royal order was issued on the 4th of January 1813, which
recites that the general Cortes have decreed- as follows
"considering that the conversion of public lands into private
property is one of the measures which the welfare of the people, as well as the advancement of agricult'ure and industry,
most imperiously demands ; and desiring, at the same time,
that. this class of lands should serve as an aid to the public
necessities, a reward to the deserving defenders of the country,
and a support to the.citizens who are not proprietors, the general and extraordinary Cortes do decree :
"All the uncultivated or public lands, and those of the corporation -f cities, with the timber thereon or without it, both

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

in the peninsular and adjacent islands, as well as in the ultra
marine provinces, except the commons necessary for the towns,
shall be made private property."
"In whatever manner these lands be distributed, it shall be
in full property."
This order was transmitted to the captain general of the
Island of Cuba; but seems to have been repealed on the 22d
of August 1814.
We do not find any limitation in the royal orders
restricting
the power of the governors to a league square in their grant.
The counsel for the United States searches for them in the
regulations by colonial officers, prescribing the rules to be
observed in the offices established for the purpose of carrying
these orders into execution, and in special orders of the crown
for specified objects.
The first to which reference has been made, were issued by
Don Alexander O'Reilly, governor.of Louisiana. He recites,
among other things, the complaints and petitions which had
been presented to him by the inhabitants, together with the
knowledge he had acquired of their local concerns, by a visit
lately made to the Cote des Allemands, &c. and from an examinati6n made of the report of'the inhabitants assembled by
his order in each district, states his conviction that the tranquillity of the inhabitants and the progress of culture required,
which shall fix the extent of the grants of lands which shall
hereafter be made, &c., and adds, "for these causes, and having nothing in view but the public good and the happiness of
every inhabitant, after having advised with persons well informed in these matters, we have regulated all these objects
in the following articles
" 1st. There shall be granted to each newly arrived family,"
&c.

This is most obviously the language of a man who supposes
himself to possess full power over the subject. The rules he
prescribes for himself, do not purport to be limits imposed by a
master, but to be marked out by his own discretion, and to be
alterable at will. He makes no allusion to orders emanating
from his sovereign, marking out the narrow path he is bound
to tread; but gives the law himself, in the character of a man
invested with full powers.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

The eighth article declares that, "no grant in the Opelousas,
Atacapas, and Natchitochas, shall exceed one league in front
by one league in depth ; but when the land granted shall not
have that depth, a league, and a half in front by half a league
in depth, may be granted."
Had the limitation on the quantity to be granted been five
miles square instead of a league square, is there any thing in
the information we possess, which would enable us to say that
the one more than the other would be an excess of power.
The instructions of governor Gayoso are dated in Septem
ber 1797, till which time it may be presumed that those of
O'Reilly remained in force. - His instructions are for the government of the commandants of ports, who appear to have
been entrusted with the power of making concessions. His
regulations, so far as they varied those which pre-existed, constituted, it may be presumed, a new law for the commandants,
but do not prove the existence of restrictions on his own power.
Like those of- O'Reilly, they give every indication of proceeding from an officer possessing general- and very extensive
powers.
The same observation applies to the regulations of Morales,
who was intendant of Louisiana and West Florida. They
are dated in July 1799, soon after receiving the order of the
king of October 1798, which directed "that the intendancy of
these provinces be put in possession of the privilege to divide
and grant all kind of land belonging to his crown; whichright,
after his order of the 24th of August 1770, belonged to the
civil and military.government: Wishing to perform this important charge, &c.
"After having examined, with the greatest attention, the
regulation made by his exgellency, count O'Reilly, the 18th of
February 1770, as well as that circulated by his excellency
the present governor, Don Manuel Gayoso de Lernos, the 1st
of January 1798, and with the counsel which has been given
me on this subject by Don Manuel Senaro, assessor of the intendency, and other persons of skill in these matters, that all
persons who wish to obtain lands, may know in what manner
they ought to ask for them, and on what condition land can
be granted and sold, &c., I have resolved that the following
regulations shall be observed."

JAN )ARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

He then proceeds to regulate, with great exactness, the
course to be observed by those who seek to obtain concessions,
the conditions on which they shall be granted, and the conduct to be observed before a complete title will be made.
These regulations do not measure his power, but give the law
to those who are to execute his orders.
These are the proceedings of the officers who were entrusted
with the power to divide and grant the ci'own lands in Lousiana and West Florida. It is not to be presumed that different
powers were conferred on the officers to whom the same duties
were confided in East Florida.
Internal regulations of police were issued 'by governor
Quesada on the 2d of September 1790. They commence
with saying, "Whereas I am commanded by royal orders,
agreeable to the public wants, to apply the most reasonable
and quick remedies thereto : for the purpose, therefore, of accomplishing this, in the edict commonly called ' internal regulations of police,' I have taken the most conducive steps, notwithstanding, much to my sorrow, there has been so much to
amend and establish, that a voluminous code would scarcely
be sufficient for me to comprise all, in proportion to the ardent
desire which animates me for the prosperity of the province
and the service of the sovereign ; wherefore, merely for the
present, and reserving hereafter, when permitted by my other
duties, the right of attending particularly to this important
subject, I therefore make known and order the following:
" 1st. 1 grant to all the inhabitants permanently settled, and
subjects of his majesty, in his royal name, for their use, the
quantity of land they may require, in proportion to their force,
in any part of the desert province, without any exception.
To this end, those desirous of obtaining the same, will present
themselves to me, within twenty days, stating their circumstances, bymemorial ; what lands they have obtained to the
present period, and to what quantity, and in what place they
are desirous of locating then now :under the precise condition
that it will be without injury to a third person, I will attend to
their solicitude according to the examination I may make thereoJ; and although the laws of the Indies authorise me to make no
absolute distribution of the same, and being in the case of tit.
12th, book 4th, I abstain, therefrom, from powerful motives.
VOL. 'VIII.-3 H

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

But for the greatcr security of those interested, I will forward
my ideas and representation on the subject to the king, persuaded that, in consequence thereof, those obtaining grants
from me now will be confirmed in the possession of the same."
The law of the Indies to which the governor refers, is inserted in Clarke's Land Laws, p. 967, and is in these words:
"That our subjects may apply themselves to the exploration
and settlement of the Indies, and that they may live with
comfort and convenience, which we- desire, it is therefore our
will, that houses, grounds, lands, cavallerias and peonias, be
granted to all those who-shall settle new lands, in the villages
and places that the governor of the new settlement shall mark
out for them. There shall be a distinction made between
gentlemen and labourers (peones), and those who shall be of
less grade and merit; and in proportion to their services, the
lands shall be increased and ameliorated for prosecuting agriculture, and the tending of cattle."
It is not easy to comprehend precisely the influence whion
this law ought to have on the governors of the Spanish colonies. It was undoubtedly the same in them all.
We collect from the extracts from the lawsof the Indieswhichare given us in Clarke's Land Laws, and White's Compilation,
that they apply chiefly to the general purposes of population
and settlement. For the attainment of these objects, general
rules were framed, which contained affirmative instructions to
the officers, to be observed in the formation of new settlements,
in donations to emigrants, and in the sale and distiribution of
crown lands. How far a discretion in the execution of these
laws, or whether any discretion, was placed in those distant
officers to whom they were directed, we have not the means of
ascertaining. So far as weare informed, they contain no negative or prohibitory words, and the regular reports of governors
must have kept their superiors informed of their proceedings.
Mr White says, p. 9, " I sought assiduously, but have been
unable to discover a record or notice of the proceedings upon
some grant or concession which had been made by a captain
general, intendant or governor, and disapproved of by the king.
I have been unable to ascertain whether any such exist."
The regulations of governor Quesada, vhich have been
cited, and in which he appears to have deviated,1 -in some

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

respects, from the law to which he refers, apply to the general
objects of cultivation, population and settlement, and ought to
conform to the laws which had been framed for those subjects.
Ie seems to grant a general privilege to every individual to
acquire lands at will. He retains to himself no discretion,
exercises no judgment in the case. " I grant," he says, "to
all the inhabitants permanently settled, and subjects of his majesty, in his royal name, for their use, the quavitity of land they
may require in proportion to their force, in any part of the desert province, without exception." Yet he ia persuaded that
thesegrants will be confirmed.
These extraordinary regulations were in th exercise of that
ordinary power to which general laws had been adapted. The
right to bestow rewards on those individuals who had rendered
any particular service, constituted a distinct branch of power,
to which those general laws could not apply. White's Compilation abounds with extracts showing the disposition of the
king, that they should be given liberally.
Governor White succeeded governor Quesada. In conformity with usage, he proclaimed, in October 1803, the rules by
which it was his purpoge to be governed in the concessions and
divisions of lands to the new settlers. He adopts a more rigid
practice than hhd been observed by his predecessors ; but these
rules appear to emanate from his own judgment, and to be intended to apply only to new settlers, who come to establish
themselves in the province.
Don Nicholas Ganido, the agent of the duke of Allegon, to
whom all or nearly all the uncultivated land of East Florida,
had been granted by the king, addressed a letter to the governor, in February 1819, soliciting official information respecting the validity of titles which had emanated from him or his
predecessors. It is not supposed that this letter, or the answer
to it, can be received as authority ; but when it is considered,
that the duke of Allegon believed himself to be the lawful proprietor of all the lands not regularly vested in others, and was
of course anxious to defeat the titles of others ; and that the
questions were asked by, and addressed to those who were best
acquainted with the authority of the governor, and the principles on which he acted, we may, on a subject on which so little
light can be shed, look at the letter, and the answer to it.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

Seventh. "In what manner are those concessions considered, which were made to foreigners or natives, of large portions
of land, who have disappeared, carrying with them their documents, without having cultivated or even seen the lands granted
to them ?"

Eighth. " Can those persons, to whom assignments of large
portions of territory have been made for the establishment of

factories, such as water or steam mills, who did not then comply, nor have not since presented themselves to establish their
machinery (allowing that none exists.in the province which is
known), be considered now, or in future, with any right? If,
in a space of time, such as has elapsed until now, they have
not established their works, will there be any reason why said
lands should not be declared open, and revert to the class of
public lands ?"
These questions are asked by the agent of the duke of Allegon,
a favourite of the king. They relate exclusively to those large
grants which are now said to have exceeded the power of the
governor. They were of course known to the duke of Allegon,
and, we must presume, to his master. Yet an excess of authority is not even suggested.' No doubt seems to be entertained of the -validity of those which had been completed by
the grant of a full title, or of those still incomplete, the conditions of which have been performed. The inquiry respects
those persons only, who had totally neglected the conditions
contained in their grants. Their titles alone seem to be
doubted even by the duke of Allegon.
This letter appears to have been referred by the governor to
Ruperto Saavedra, who answers all the inquiries made by
Ganido. He says, "those who have titles of proprietorship,
who have complied with the conditions pointed out to entitle
them to them, or have obtained them as a remuneration for
services, or other considerations deemed by the government'
sufficient for the purpose ; n these cases there is a precise obligation to respect said titles, especialiy as the said conditions
have been established at the will of the governors, and that the
royal order of 1790, on the subject, impairs none, but expressly
states, that lands shall be granted and surveyed gratis, to those
foreigners who, of their own free will, present themselves to
swear allegiance."

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

After observing that the donation to the duke of Allegon, is
limited " to uncultivated lands which have not been granted,"
Saavedra says ; " yet it is proper to explain, in this particular,
that the concessions made to foreigners or natives, of large or
small portions of land, carrying their documents with them
(which shall be certificates issued by the secretary), without
having cultivated or even seen the lands granted io them, such
concessions are of no value or effet, and should be considered
as not made, because the abandonment has been voluntary,
and that they have failed in complying with the conditions prescribed for the encouragement of population. The assignments
of extensive portions of territory, which have been made for the
establishment of factories, to persons who did not then comply,
nor have not since presented themselves to establish their mechanical works, ought also to be considered without any right or
value, and said lands declared perfectly free, that they may
revert into the class of public lands," &c.'
This opinion was laid before governor Coppinger, and approved by him. It recognises the right to grant as " a remuneration for services, or other considervtions deemed by the
government sufficient for the purpose ;" and speaks of concessions to foreigners or natives, for large or small portions of land
as equally valid. The right they give to a complete title,
depends on the conduct of the proprietor, on his compliance or
non compliance with the conditions, not on the -uantity conceded. The same principle applies "to assignments of extensive portions of territory, which had been made for the establishment of factories" which have not been erected. The
extensiveness of the territory assigned, is not made an objection; but the failure to perform the condition on which the
concession was made.
It is apparent, that both the agent of the duke, and Saavedra,
considered these large concessions as within the power of the
governor.
The counsel for the United States relies confidently on the
letter of governor Kindelan, of the 4th of June 1803, addressed
to the captain general of Cuba, in whi6h h6 recommends the
militia who had served during the late insurrection and third
battalion of Cuba, as worthy the gifts to which the supreme
governor may think -them entitled. He suggests granting "to

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

the soldiers a certain quantity of land, as established by regulations in this province, agreeably to the number of persons in
each family."
On the part of the United States it is insisted, that this application could not have been made, had the governor been
authorized by the existing laws to reward their services still
more liberally.
The argument has undoubtedly great weight, but we do
not think it conclusive.
Grants to a whole class of individuals, a distribution of lands
among the body of the colonial militia, and a battalion of a
different province, might be expected to belong rather to the
general system of distribution than to that branch of itwhich
authorizes rewards to individuals forlparticular special services,
and might be expected to proceed directly from the crown, or
to have its express sanction.
If not all the extracts from the laws of the Indies, at least
by far the greater part of them, which we find in White's
Compilation, relating to rewards, contemplate services peculiar
to the individual, not those which are of a general character.
We do not think, therefore, that an application to superior
authority for a distribution of lands among the militia who
have served during a period of dangerous insurrection, is necessarily to be be ascribed to the consciousness of wanting power
to give a reward in lands to an individual whose invention is
deemed meritorious.
The favour of granting rewards is expressed in terms indicating the expectation that it is to be exercised by those governors who are also viceroys; but there are no prohibitory
words, and the general power of granting lands, extended to
the governors of distant provinces, or where sea intervenes,
may comprehend granting as a reward for individual merit.
The facts that this power was exercised certainly as early as
1813, by the governor or East Florida, that the condition of the
province and the exhausted state of the kingdom seemed to
require and justify it, and that the king never disapproved-the
proceedings of the governor, existed when the treaty was
formed. Such was the state of things to which the treaty
applied.
It is stated that the practice of making large concessions

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

commenced with the intention of ceding the Floridas, and
these grants have been treated as frauds on the United States.
The increased motives for making them have been stated
in argument, and their influence cannot be denied. But admitting the charge to be well founded, admitting that the
Spanish government was more liberal in its concessions after
contemplating the cession than before, ought this circumstance
to affect bona fide titles to which the United States made no
objection.
While Florida remained a province of Spain, the right of his
catholic majesty, acting in person or by his officers, to distribute lands according to his pleasure, was unquestioned. That
he was in the constant exercise of this power, was well known.
If the United States were nor content to receive the territory,
charged with titles thus created, they ought to have made, and
they would have made, such exceptions as they deemed necessary. They have made these exceptions. They have stipulated that all grants made since the 24th of January 1818,
shall be null and void.
It'is understood that this stipulation was intended to embrace
three large grants made by the king, which comprehended
nearly all thp crown l'ands in East Florida., However this
may be, it shows that the subject was in the mind of the negotiators, and that the apprehended mischief was guarded
against so far as the parties could agree. The American government was content with the security which this stipulation
afforded, and cannot now demand farther and additional
grounds. The acquisition of the Floridas was an object of
immense importance to the United States. It was urged by
other considerations of a still more powerful operation, in addition to vacant lands. It will be regarded, while our union
lasts, as the highest praise of the administration which made
it, and of the negotiator who accomplished it. It cannot be
doubted that the terms were highly advantageous, and that
they were so considered by all. The United States were satisfied, and had reason to be satisfied, with the provision excluding grants made subsequent to the 24th of January 1818, when
the fraud or, that provision was prevented by the terms of the
ratification of the treaty. All other concessions made by his
catholic majesty, or his lawful authorities in the ceded territo-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarks.]
ries (in the ratification by the king of Spain, "competent authorities"), are as valid as if the cession had not been made.
If it be shown by the person holding the concession, that it was
made by the officer authorised to grant lands, that it was the duty
of this officer to give a regular accountof his official transactions,
that no grant ever made by the person thus entrusted, had
ever been disapproved ; courts ought to require very full proof
that he had transcended his powers, before they so determine.
We do not think this full proof has been given in the present
case.
The considerations then recited in the grant, in addition to
the royal order of October 1790, are, we think, sufficient to
maintain it.
It will be proper to take a concise review of the legislation
of congress on this subject.
The first act, passed on the 8th of May 1822, entitled "an
act for ascertaining claims and titles to land within the territory of Florida," (L. U. S. vol. 7, p. 103) directs that commissioners be appointed "for the purpose of ascertaining the
claims and titles to lands within the territory of Florida, as
The
acquired by the treaty of the 22d of February 1819,"
sixth section enacts, "that every person, or the heirs or representatives of such persons, claiming titles to lands under any
patent, grant, concession or order of survey, dated previous to
the 24th day of January 1818, which were valid under the
Spanish government or by the law of nations, and which are not
rejected by the treaty ceding the territory of East
and West Florida to the United States, shall file before the commissioners his,
her or their claim, setting forth particularly its situation and
boundaries, if to be ascertained, with the deraignment of title
when they are not the grantees or original claimants," &c.
"And said commissioners shall proceed to examine and determine on the validity of said patents, grants, concessions and orders of survey, agreeably to the laws and ordinances heretofore
existing, of the governments making the grants respectively,
having due regard, in all Spanish claims, to the conditions and
stipulations contained in the eighth article of a treaty concluded
at Washington, between his catholic majesty and the United
States, on the 22d of February 1819; but any claim not filed
previous to the 31st day of May 1823, shall be deemed and

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States-v. Clarke.]

held to be void and of none effect."- They were directed to
examine all these claims; and, if satisfied that-they were correct and valid, to confirm them ; "provided that they shall not
have power to confirm any claim, or part thereof, where the
amount claimed is undefined in quantity, or shall exceed one
thousand acres; but in all such. cases shall report the testimony, with their opinions, to the secretary of the treasury, to
be laid before congress for their determination."
The object of this law cannot be doubted. It was to separate private property frorih the public domain, for the double
purpose of doing justice to individuals, and enabling congress
safely to sell the vacant lands in their newly acquired territories. To accomplish this object, it was necessary that all
claims, of every description, should be brought before the commissioners, and that their powers of inquiry should extend to
all. Not only has this been done, but, further to stimulate the
claimants, the act declares "that any claim not filed previous
to the 31st of May 1823, shall be deemed and held to be void
and of none effect." This primary intention of congress is
best promoted by determining causes finally, where their substantial merits can be discerned.
The subsequent acts of congress, respecting the board of
commissioners, have no materia-influence on the question before the court.
On the 23d of May 1828, congress passed "an act supplementary to the several acts providing for the settlement and
confirmation of private land claims in Florida."
This act confirms all claims contained in-the reports of the
commissioners of East Florida, and in the reports of the receiver and register acting as such, "to the extent of the quantity contained in one league square," and continues the powers
of the register and receiver, till the first Monday in the following December.
The sixth section enacts, '1 that all claims to land within the
territory of Florida, embraced by the treaty between Spain and
the United States, of the 22d of February 1819, which shall
not be decided and finally settled -under the foregoing provisions of this act, containing a greater quantity of land than
the commissioners were authorised to decide; and above the
amount confirmed by this act, and which have not been reVOL. viii.-3 i

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

ported as antedated or forged, by said commissioners, or register and receiver acting as such, shall be received and adjudicated by the judge of the superior court of the district in which
the land lies, upon the petition of the claimant," &c.
The report of the register and receiver being made, congress, on the 26th of May 1830, passed "an act for the final
settlement of land claims in Florida."
This act, after confirming the claims it recites, declares that
all the remaining claims which have been presented according
to law, and not finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and
finally settled upon the same conditions, restrictions and limitations in every respect, as are prescribed by the act of congress, approved the 23d of May 1828, entitled "an act supplementary to the -several acts for the settlement and confirmation of private land clairrs in Florida."
That act refers to the act approved May the 26th 1824, entitled "an act enabling the claimants to land within the limits
of the state of Missouri, and territory of Arkansas, to institute
proceedings to try the validity of their claims."
This last recited act provides for the trial of claims "protected
or secured" by the treaty whicb ceded Louisiana to the United
States. After describing those claims in terms supposed to
comprehend them all, the act proceeds, "in each and every
such case, it shall and may be lawful for stich person or
persons, or their legal representatives, to present a petition to
the district court of the state of Missouri, setting forth fully,
plainly and substantially, the nature of his, her or their
claim to the lands, tenements or hereditaments, and particularly stating the date of the grant, concession, warra.t or order
of survey under which they claim, the name or names of any
person or persons claiming the same, or any part thereof, by a
different title from that of the petitioner, or holding possession
of any part thereof, otherwise than by the leave or permission
of the petitioner; and also, if the United States be interested,
on account of the lands within the limits of such claim, not
claimed by any other person than the petitioner; also the
quantity claimed, and thd boundaries thereof, when the same
may have been designated by boundaries; by whom issued,
and whether the said claim has been submitted to the examination of either of the tribunals which have been constituted

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarko]

by law for the adjustment of land titles, in the present limits
of the state of Missouri, and by them reported on unfavourably,
or recommended for confirmation."
It'has been already stated, that this act does not define the
jurisdiction conferred on the court of East Florida by the act
of 1830, but directs the mode of proceeding and the rules of
decision. Consequently those technical averments which are
required in the pleadings to show the jurisdiction of a court of
limited jurisdiction are not indispensable, and it will be suffi-

cient if the petition state a case substantially within the law.
The court is satisfied that the petition of George J. F. Clarke
is in this respect unexceptionable. It complies, we think,
'with all the requisites of the law.
The grant which constitutes the foundation of the
petitioner's claim, is a complete title, subject to no condition whatever,
emanating from the governor of East Florida, who was the
lawful authority of his catholic majesty, for mking grants
and concessions of land, in that province. The decree of the
district court, so far as it affirms the validity of this grant, is,
we think, correct. But it appears to us to confirm the title of
the petitioner to lands not comprehended within it.
In his original application to governor Coppinger, the petitioner describes with precision the land he solicits. The decree conforms to the petition, and the full title to both. That
instrument, after stating the prayer of Clarke, adds, "and
having pointed out a competent tract on the west side of St
John's river, above Black creek, at a place called White
Spring; that is vacant, &c., therefore I have resolved to
grant, as in the name of his majesty I do grant, to the said
George Clarke, the aforementioned five miles square of lad,
for himself, his heirs and successors, in absolute property, and
I do issue, by these presents, a competent title, whereby I
separate the royal domain from the right and dominion it had
to said lands," &c.
Afterwards, on the 25th of January 1819, he again
presented
a petition to the governor, 4ating, that having examined the
lands in the neighbourhood of White Spring, he finds that
their extension back, is in no wise adequate to the expectation
and intentions he had formed, nor the purposes for which they
were granted to him, by the government ; and furthermore,

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Clarke.]

to
he fears that they will interfere with the lands appertaining
the house of John Forbes & Co., therefore he prays "' that the
survey made in pursuance of an order granted by the governor,
should be verified, with this only difference, that the depth
back will be contracted to about One and a half miles, and that
the said surveyor will survey the balance in the hammocks
called langs and cones, situated on the south of Mizzel's lake,
which are v acant."
The prayer of the petitioner was granted, and the surveys
were made. The plats were laid before the district court, and
show'that one, containing eight thousand acies, was surveyed
within the bounds of the grant. Two others, on6-for five, and
the other for three thousand acres, were surveyed elsewhere.
The judge confirmed the title of the petitioner to the three
surveys.
The grant conveyed to Clarke the land d(scribed in the
instrument, and no other. A permit to survey other lands,
can be considered only as a new order of survey, depending
for its validity on the power of the person who made it. On
the 25th of January 1819, governor Coppinger did not possess
this power. The treaty of February 1819, had declared that
all grants (concessions) made after the 24th of January. 1818,
should be null and void.
The acts of congress forbid the
allowance of any order of survey made 'after that date. So
much of the decree as sanctions these two surveys of five and
three thousand acres, is in our opinion, erroneous.
But- we do not think these irregular surveys affect the title
under the original grant, unless the lands have been acquired
by others. The vacant lands within its bounds, still belong
to the appellee, and may now be surveyed by him.
It is the opinion of this court, that there is no error in so
much of the decree of the superior court for the district of
East Florida, pronounced in this case in May term 1882, as
doth order, adjudge and decree that this claim is valid, and
as confirms the same unto the claimant, to the extent, and
agreeably to the boundaries as in the grant for the said lands;
and in the plat of survey thereof, made by Don Andrew Burgevin, of eight thousand acres, and dated the 24th of February
1817, and that so much of the said decree ought to be affirmed,
and it is hereby affirmed accordingly. But that so much of

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Clarke.]

the said decree as confirms to the claimant the lands contained
in two other surveys thereof, made by the said Don Andrew
Burgevin; one for five thousand acres, on the 10th of March
1819, and the other for three thousand acres, on the 12th of
the same month ; is erroneous and ought to be reversed, and
the same is hereby reversed acc9rdingly; and the cause is
hereby remanded to the said district court, with directions to
take farther proceedings therein, in such manner that the residue of the said granted land be surveyed to the said petitioner,
within the limits of the grant. All which is ordered and adjudged by this court.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the superior court for the eastern district of Florida,
and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, this
court is of opinion, that there is no error in so much of the
decree of the said court, pronounced in May term 1832, as
doth adjudge and decree that the claim of the petitioner in
that court is valid,.and in so much thereof as confirms the.
same unto the claL.iant, to the extent and agreeably to-the
boundaries as in the grant for the said lands, and in the plat
of survey thereof, made by Don Ap.drew Burgevil, of eight
thousand acres, and dated the.24th of February 1819, filed in
this cause, and that so much of the said decree ought to be
affirmed, and it Nshereby affirmed accordingly. But that so
much of the said decree as confirms to the claimants the lands
contained in two other surveys thereof, made by the said Don
Andrew Burgevin, filed also in this cause, one for five thousand acres on the 10th of March 1819, and the other for thre
thousand acres on the 12th of the same month, is erroneous,
and ought to be reversed, and the same is hereby reversed accordingly ; and this court doth remand the said cause to the
said superior court, with directions to conform to this decree, and
to take such further proceedings in the premises, that the remaining eight thousand acres, which have been improperly
surveyed without authority, be surveyed on any lands now
vacant within the limits of the grant made to the petitioner
on the 6th of April 1816, and that the title of the petitioner to
the land so surveyed be confirmed. All which is ordered, ad'judged and decreed by this court.

