SUPREME COURT

MARY

DENEALE,

EXECUTRIX

OF

GEORGE

DENEALE,

OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. JOHN ARCHER AND
W.

AND
JOHN

STUMP, EXECUTORS OF JOHN STUMP, DECEASED, DEFEND-

ANTS IN ERROR.
A writ of error brought in the name of" Mary Deneale and others ;" dismissed
for irregularity. A new one in due form may be brought.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Alexandria, in the District of Columbia.
Upon the opening of the record in this case, it wasfound
that the writ of error had been issued in the name of Mary
Deneale, executrix of George Deneale, and others.
Mr Coxe, for. the defendants, objected to the writ of error as
informal. All the parties to the proceedings in the circuit court
should be parties to the writ of error. Those who have not
joined in it, are not before the court. The court cannot know
who are the persons meant by ",others."
Mr Lee, for the plaintiff in error, contended, that the record
showed who were the parties to the case.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL deliveiad the opinion of the
Court.
This was the case of a scire facias against devisees to revive
a judgmeht. The scire facias is in its form without precedent,
and a demurrer was filed to it. Process on the scire facias
issued against four devisees, and service was made upon two
only of them. An office judgment was then taken against all
the devisees.- The two of them on whom the process was
served, afterwards appeared, and the office judgment was set
aside as to them, and they then pleaded the statute of limitations. There was a demurrer to the replication and judgment
against all the devisees.
The present writ of error is brought by Mary Deneale "and
others," as plaintiffs ; but who the others are cannot be known
to the court, for their names are not given in the writ of error,

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Deneale and others v. Stump's Executors.]

as they ought to be. Mary Deneale cannot alone maintain a
writ of error on this judgment : but all the parties must be
joined and their names set forth, in order that the court may
proceed to give a proper judgment on the case. The present
writ of error must therefore be dismissed for irregularity ; but
a new one in due form may hereafter be brought to revise the
judgment.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Columbia holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and
was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court, that this writ of error is irregular, and
should be dismissed, inasmuch as it is in the name of "Mary
Deneale and others," without naming who those others are ;
whereupon it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that this
case be, and the same is hereby dismissed.

