256

SUPREME COURT.

JOSEPH MAY') 'VILLE

AND OTHERS,

APPELLANTS V. RODERICK

BURT, COMPLAINANT.
SAME APPELLANTS V. J. AND W.
SAME

SOUTHGATE, COMPLAINANTS.

APPELLANTS V. WILLIAM NEALE,

ADMINISTRATOR

OF

FRANCIS KEENE, COMPLAINANT.
SAMEAPPELLANTS V. ALEXANDER SANGSTON, COMPLAINANT.
SAME APPELLANTS V. JOHN AND REuBEN WITHERS, COMPLAINANTS.
SAME APPELLANTS V. THOMSON MASON, ADMINISTRATOR.
In the circuit court of Alexandria, in 1817, several suits were brought againstsundry individuals, who had associated to form a bank, called the Merchants Bank of Alexandria. The proceedings were regularly carried on
in one of them, brought by Romulus Riggs;' and a decree was pronounced
by the court, from which the defendants appealed. On a hearing, the decree was reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings, in conformity with certain principles prescribed in the decree of reversal. It
.appears, that decrees were pronounced in all the causes, though regular
proceedings were had only-in the case of Romulus Riggs. Appeals were
entered in these cases from the decrees of the court. Under such circumstances, tlhc court can only reverse the decree in each case for want of
a bill.
The whole business appearing to have been conducted in the confidence that
the pleadings in the case of Romulus Riggs could be introduced into the
* other causes, the cases were remanded to the circuit court, with directions
to allow bills to be filed, and to proceed thereon according to law.

ON appeals from the circuit court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, in the county of Alexandria.
These cases were submitted to the court by Mr Lee, for the
appellants ; no counsel hppeared for the appellees.
Mr Lee stated, that the cases depend mainly upon the principles of the decision of the supteme court, rendered at January
term 1829, in the case of Romulus Riggs v. The Stockholders

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[Mandeville et al, v. Burt et al]

of the Merchants Bank, reported in 2 Peters 482, under the
name of Mandeville and others v. Riggs.
In the present cases, there is an additional objection to the
decree in each of them, which is, that no bill was ever filed.
It appears, from the proceedings, that it was agreed, that the
answers in the case of Riggs, were to be filed in these cases;
it is contended, that that was to be done when bills were
filed.
The appellants insist in these cases, on the same objections
to the decree of the circuit court, which were urged in the case
of Riggs, with that of a want of a bill.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree pronounced by the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, sitting
in chancery, for the county of Alexandria.
'A subpcena, which was regularly issued, was served on some
of the defendants ; after which the record states, that the complainant appeared by his attorney, and filed his bill, which
was taken for confessed against those defendants on whom
process was served. The clerk certifies, that no bill appears
among the papers in the cause.
•Several answers are then filed, which purport to be answers*
to a bill filed, not by the plaintiff, Roderick Burt, but by Rom-.
ulus Riggs. The record contains several accounts, and a report by certain trustees of an unchartered bank, the members
of which, as may be inferred from the statements on the record,
are the defendants in this case, against whom the suit is
brought, to recover a note or notes held by the plaintiff. The
court then proceeds to render a decree in the cause, from which
the defendants have prayed an appeal to this court.
There being no bill, the court cannot inquire into the merits
of this- decree. The regular course of proceeding would be,
on the suggestion of diminution, to award a certiorari for a
fuller record. But no counsel appears -to suggest diminution,
dr ask for a certiorari; and the court is satisfied that no fuller
record-could be brought up.
In the year 1!7, several suits were brought against sundry
individuals who had associated to torm a bank called the MerVOL. VIT.-2 H

SUPREME COURT.
IMandeville et al. v. Burt et al.]

chants Bank of Alexandria. The proceedings were regularly
carried on in one of them, brought by Rojnulus Riggs ; and
a decree was pronounced by the court, from which the defendants appealed. On a hearing, the decree was reversed,(a) and
the cause remanded for forther proceedings, in conformity with
certain principles prescribed in the decree of reversal. It appears that decrees were pronounced in all the causes, though
regular proceedings were had only in the case of Romulus
Riggs. Under such circumstances the court can only reverse
the decree for want of a bill. Under the particular circumstances, the whole business appearing to have been conaucted
in the confidence that the pleadings in the case of Romulus
Riggs could be introduced into the other- causes, the case is
remanded to the circuit court, with directions to allow a bill to
be filed, and to proceed thereon according to law.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria,
and was argued by. counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
the opinion of this court, that the decree of the said circuit
court, under the circumstances of the case, slhould be reversed,
for the want of a bill ; and that the cause should be remanded
to the said couri, with directions to allow a bill to be filed, and
to proceed thereon according to law. Whereupon it is considered, ordered and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed for want of a bill ; and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to
allow a bill to be filed in this cause, and to proceed thereon
according to law.
(a) 2 Peters 482,

