SUPREME COURT.

288

THE UNITED STATES

v.

ADAM R.ANDENBUH.

Tho defendant was indicted in April 1833, in the circuit court for the district
of Pennsylvania, for passing a counterfeit note of the denomination often
dollars, purporting to be a note of the Bank of the United States, with intent
He pleaded that the note described in the into defraud the bank, &c.
dictment had been heretofore given in evidence on the trial of the defendant, upon a former indictment found against him for passing another
counterfeit ten dollar note; upon which indictment he had been acquitted.
By the Court: The offence for whiQh the defendant was indicted, and to
which indictment he pleaded thu plea of a former acquittal, was entirely a
distinct offence from tbat on which the verdict of acquittal was found. The
plea does not show that he had ever been indicted for passing the same
counterfeit bill, or that he had evdr been put in jeopardy for the, same
offence. The matter pleaded is no bar to the indictment.

ON a certificate of division of opinion of the judges of the
circuit court of the United States for the district of Penn-

sylvania.
The defendant was indicted in April 1833, in the circuit
court for the district of Pennsylvania, for passing a counterfeit
note of the denomination of ten dollars, purporting to be a
note issued by the Bank of the United States, with intent to
defraud the bank scienter, &c.
He interposed three several pleas to this indictment, in the
second of which he avers that the note described in tie indictment, &c., was heretofore given in cvidence, with the facts
and circumstances attending the said passing thereof, on the
the trial of defendant, upon a certain former indictment found

against him for passing another ten dollar counterfeit note,
to sustain that indictment ; and that he was thereitpon acquitted, &c.
To this plea the United Slates demurred, and the defendant
joined in demurre,'; but as the opinions of the judges were opposed as to the judgment to be given thereon, the case was

certified for the opinion of this court.
The case,.rwas argued by the Atiomliey-General foi the United

States.

No counsel appeared for the defendani.

JANUARY TERM 1834.
[United States v. Randenbush ]

The Attorney-General submitted tO the court the following
points ; and referred the court to the authorities on botLi sides of
the question presented by them.
1. It appears by the record, that the offences for which the defendant was indicted, were not the same. Cited on this point:
2 Hale's P. Cr. 244 ; 4 Hawk. 316, 314; 1 Chitty's Crim. Law
453, 456; 1 Leach's Crown Law 242; 2 Leach's Crown Law
716; Rex v, Clarke, I Broad. and Bing. 473; 9 East 437:
Van Horton v. Hawey, 2 New York City Recorder 73.
2. Tile acquittal upon the first indictment does not necessarily involve any decision upon the question preserned by the
last. Cited: 2 East 519 ; for the general principles, 522; Jack-on v. Wood, 3 Wendell's Rep. 27; S Wendell's Rep' 9; Starkie
on Evideice, part 2, see. 65, 198, 202.
3. The passing of the note described in the last indictment,
was not a fact embraced within tile is4.ue formed upon the for.
mer indictment ; and if given in evidence on the trial of that
issue, it could only have been as a collateral circumstance
tending to prove the scienter in respect to the note described in
the first indictment ; and this does not protect tle party from
answering directly for the fact, in an indictment founded
thereon. Starkie, part 4, 379, 380, 382.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The defendant was indicted in April 1833, in the circuit
court for the dlistrict of Pennsylvania, for passing a counterfeit.
note of the denomination of ten dollars, purportin g to be a note
of the Bank of the initcd States, with intent to defraud the
bank, &c.
He pleaded that time note described in the indictment had
been heretofore given in evidence on-the tial of tihe defendant, upon a former indictment found against him for passing
another counterfeit ten dollar note, up|n which indictment he
had been acqtitted.
The United Statps demurred to this plea, and the defendant
joined in demurrer.
The judges were opposed in op)inion, on the question whether the judgment on the demurrer should be entered'in favour of the United States or of the prisoner, which division of
VOL. VI i-2

Ai

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Randenbush ]

opinion is ordered to be certified to the supreme court of the
United States.
The offence for which the defendant was indicted, and to,
which indictment he pleaded the plea of a former aeaqitttl,
was entirely a distinct offence from that on which the verdictof acquittal was found. The plea does not show tjhat he had
ever been indicted for passing the same counterfeit bill, or that
he had ever been put in jeopardy for the same offence. We
are therefore of opinion, that the matter pleaded is no bar to
the indictment, and that the demurrer ought to be 'sustained.
A certificate to this effect is to be given.

This"cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Pennsylvania, and on the question and point on which the
judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of congress in such case made and provided, and.wap
argued by counsel; on considerotion whereof, it is the opinioi
of this court that judgment on the demurrer to the second plea
pleaded by the defendant to the indictment filed against him,
ought to be rendered for the United States. Whereupon, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be certified to the
said circuit court that judgment on the demurrer to the second
plea pleaded by the defendant to the indictment filed against
him, ought to be rendered for the United States.

