OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY et al.
APPEAL FROM AND ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
Nos. 89, 199. Argued October 19, 20, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.

The act of Congress of July 24, 1866, 14 Stat. 221, Rev. Stat. §§ 5263 et seq.,
giving telegraph companies the right to construct and operate their lines
through, along and over the public domain, military or post roads and
navigable waters of the United States, was a legitimate regulation of
commercial intercourse by telegraph among the States and appropriate
legislation to carry into execution the power of Congress over the postal
service; it was merely an exercise of National power to withdraw such
intercourse from state control and interference.
This court has already held in Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1, and WTrestern Union Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor RailroadCo.,
178 U. S. 239, and now follows those decisions that the act of July 24,
1866, does not confer upon telegraph companies, the right to enter upon
private property without the consent of the owner or grant them the
right of eminent domain.
A railroad's right of way is property devoted to a public use and has often
been called a highway, and as such is subject, to a certain extent, to state
and Federal control but it is so far private property as to be entitled to
the protection of the Constitution so that it can only be taken under the
power of eminent domain; and a condition precedent to the exercise of
the power of eminent domain is that the statute conferring it make provision for compensating the owner.
No statute of New Jersey makes railroad property subject to occupation by
telegraph companies under the act of Congress of 1866.

THIS is a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court of the District of New Jersey by the appellant against the appellee, the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, to prevent the latter from
removing from various railroad companies' rights of way the
telegraph lines of the appellant. The bill was filed in aid of
a petition on the law side of the court, praying the court to
issue its process or take such modes-of procedure as might be

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 54:1
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

agreeable to the principles and usages of law, to determine the
amount of compensation to be paid by appellant to appellee
for the use of the right of way of the appellee, and its branches
and connecting lines, to construct, maintain and operate a line
of telegraph over and along such railways, subject to the conditions and provisions named in the act of Congress of July 24,
1866. 14 State 221, c. 230; Rev. Stat. §§ 5263 et seq.
The construction of this act of Congress is the main question in the case.
The appellant, which we shall designate the Telegraph Company, contends that under certain acts of Congress the roads
of the Railroad Company and all other railroads in the United
States are made post roads, and that by the act of July 24,
1866, the Telegraph Company has the right to construct,
maintain and operate lines of telegraph along said roads upon
the payment of compensation to the Railroad Company. In
other words, the contention is that by the act of 1866 the
Telegraph Company is given the power of eminent domain to
acquire the right to occupy with its telegraph lines the rights
of way of the Railroad Company.
A summary of the bill is as follows: The Telegraph Company
is a New York corporation; the Railroad Company is a Pennsylvania corporation. The New Jersey Railroad and Canal
Company was incorporated under the laws of New Jersey and
is the owner of a railroad extending from Jersey City in the
State of New Jersey to the Delaware River at the city of
Trenton in said State; with certain branches, which the bill
describes. The Railroad Company is the owner of a line of
railroad extending from the city of Philadelphia to the city of
Pittsburgh in the State of Pennsylvania, and in possession and
control of the railroads of the New Jersey Railroad and Canal
Company in New Jersey, under a lease or leases for a period
of nine hundred and ninety-nine years from the first of July,
1871. By the laws of New Jersey the said railroads were
created, and made and are now, public highways, and hence
are subject to occupation and use of telegraph companies

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

under the provisions and conditions of the act of Congress of
July 24, 1866.

The Telegraph Company was organized in 1851, and began
then to construct and has constructed and acquired a continuous system of telegraph lines, which extends through all
of the States and Territories of the United States and connects
with telegraph lines in the Dominion of Canada, and with lines
also in the Republic of Mexico and South American Republics,
and with and by submarine cables with the systems of all
telegraph lines of foreign countries.
The system operated directly by the Telegraph Company
consists of over 192,000 miles of poles and cables, and over
900,000 miles of wire, and that an important part of the system
and connected with its main office in New York City, and with
other lines leading to the important cities of the West, is
the lines of telegraph over and along the lines of railway
operated by the Railroad Company, connecting Jersey City
with Philadelphia, and connecting with other lines of the
system.
The lines of telegraph along the railways in New Jersey
were originally constructed by the American Telegraph Company, a corporation of the State of New Jersey, with the consent of or under contracts and arrangement with the railway
company, then owning the said lines of railway, and were constructed more than forty years ago, and since the twentieth
of September, 1881, the telegraph lines over the right of way
of said railroads have been maintained and operated and
compensation paid therefor under the provisions of a contract between the Telegraph Company and the Railroad Company. The contract granted to the Telegraph Company the
right to place, maintain and use upon the line of the right of
way of the Railroad Company, and of the railroads owned,
operated or leased by it, a single line of telegraph poles (in
certain cases two were authorized), with the privilege of erecting and maintaining thereon such number of wires as the
Telegraph Company might from time to time elect, said lines

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 543
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to be located and placed under the direction of an officer of
the Railroad Company.
The Telegraph Company agreed to pay annually for the
privileges granted the sum of $75,000, in monthly installments of $6,250, and to deliver to the Railroad Company
certain poles and wire, which were then on certain of their'
roads. The Telegraph Company also agreed to transmit the
messages of the Railroad Company at a compensation which
was stated.
The provisions for the termination of the agreement and in
the event of its termination are as follows:
"Thirteenth. This agreement is to continue in force for and,
during the term of twenty years from its date, and shall be
binding upon the respective companies, their sucessors and
assigns, and neither party shall have the right to assign the
whole, or any part hereof, without the consent of the other,
given in writing.
"Fifteenth. If any monthly payment herein provided for
be not made within sixty days after it shall have become due,
and shall have been demanded by written notice, delivered
to the treasurer, or an executive officer of the party in default, or if any other covenant herein made shall not, after
sixty days' written notice of default and demand made by
either party in the manner herein provided, be fulfilled by the
other party, the contract may, at the option of the party
demanding such fulfilment, be rescinded,, and such rescission
shall not relieve the party in default from liability for any
amount due, or for damages for non-fulfillment of such covenant or of any other covenant.
"Sixteenth. If no new agreement be made by the parties
hereto, the Telegraph Company shall, at the termination of
this contract, or at any time hereafter, upon receiving written
notice from the Railroad Company, remove within six months
from the receipt of said notice all of its poles and wires and.
leave the property of the Railroad Company in good condi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

tion and free from the encumbrance thereof to the satisfaction
of the general manager, or other proper officer of the Railroad
Company, and if not so removed the Railroad Company may
remove them at the expense of the Telegraph Company: Provided, however, That the payment agreed to be made by the
Telegraph Company to the Railroad Company in the sixth
clause hereof, and by the Railroad Company in the eighth
clause, shall not apply to the said six months, the companies
respectively hereby expressly agreeing to waive the same."
The agreement contains the following provision:
"Any easement or right of way heretofore acquired by the
Telegraph Company upon any of the roads embraced in this

agreement, either directly by contract or by assignment of
contracts or agreements made by other companies with the
Railroad Company, or with any of the companies whose roads
or property are embraced in the schedule hereto attached, is
hereby relinquished and abandoned, and the rights and easements of the Telegraph Company upon the right of way of
said Railroad Company shall be such only as are granted by
this agreement, and shall cease with its termination."
The agreement was carried out and the payments made as
provided, the last being made on the twentieth of June, 1902.
On the fourteenth of May, 1902, the Railroad Company
notified the Telegraph Company in writing to remove its poles,
wires and other property from the right of way and property
of the Railroad Company and of the other companies mentioned in the agreement, within six months from the first day
of June, 1902. The notice stated that in default of compliance
the Railroad Company would itself cause such poles, wires
and other property of the Telegraph Company to be removed
from the right of way at the expense of the latter company.
It is alleged in the bill that, by reason of the facts set forth,
and by reason of the receipt of payments after the twentyfirst of September, 1901, and after the notice of removal, the
agreement was continued in force, and that the Railroad
Company had no right, notwithstanding the notice of May 14,

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R.o et al. 545
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

1902, to remove or cause to be removed from the line of its
railways the poles, wires and telegraph property of the Telegraph Company at the end of six months from the first day
of June, 1902.

It is also alleged that the lines of telegraph have been maintained and operated over the lines of railway without interfering with the ordinary use and operation thereof or the
ordinary travel thereon, and, as now located, maintained and
-operated, can be continued so as not to interfere with the
future operation and maintenance of the said railways or the
ordinary travel upon them, subject only to such slight changes
of some of the poles of said lines as may be incident to the con-struction of additional tracks upon said right of way or shifting the tracks already existing on said railways.
May 20, 1902, the president and general manager of the
Telegraph Company, in a letter addressed to the president
of the Railroad Company, acknowledged receipt of the notice
of removal of May 14, and stated that he understood that
negotiations had been in progress between the officers of the
respective companies for a renewal of the contract of September 20, 1881, and declared that he would be glad to take
up the matter actively, either in New York or in Philadelphia,
at the convenience of the president of the Railroad Company.
The following day the president of the Railroad Companyreplied, stating that none of the companies named "desires to
renew or extend its contract with the Western Union Telegraph Company," and that the contract between the companies had terminated under its terms on the twentieth of
September, 1901, and the notice to the Telegraph Company
to remove its poles had been given in accordance with the
provisions of the contract. A willingness to discuss any temporary arrangement which might be necessary during the time
allowed for the removal of the poles of the Telegraph Company was expressed. A somewhat lengthy reply was made,
in which the Telegraph Company claimed that since some of
the contracts referred to by the Railroad Company were perVOL. cxcv-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

petual in their terms, or ran during the life of the parties, they
could not be terminated by one party without the consent of
the other; asserted a right, under the laws of Congress and the
laws and constitution of the State of Pennsylvania, to maintain and operate its lines of telegraph on the Railroad Company's roads, subject only, at most, to make a fair and reasonable compensation for such right, which it offered to pay,
and requested, if the Railroad Company declined to contract
further with it, a meeting for the purpose of agreeing upon the
amount of such compensation, or to submit the matter to
arbitration. The Railroad Company replied that the meeting requested would be useless, as the Telegraph Company
asserted rights upon the lines of the Railroad Company which
could not be conceded. It was stated in the reply that the
Railroad Company had agreed and contracted with the Postal
Telegraph Cable Company covering the railroads included in
the contract with the Telegraph Company, and that the Postal
Telegraph Cable Company would immediately commence
transacting a commercial telegraph business at the stations
of the Railroad Company. The Railroad Company offered to
permit the Telegraph Company to do business at the railroad
stations until September 30, next ensuing (1902); and for the
purpose of avoiding unnecessary loss to the Telegraph Company, incident to the removal of its poles, the Railroad Company expressed a willingness to purchase, at a fair valuation,
such of the lines as it could make use of.
It is alleged in the bill that the notice given to the Telegraph Company to remove its poles from the railroads, and
the refusal of the Railroad Company to negotiate further with
the Telegraph Company, was not induced from any compulsion or necessity to use the space occupied by the telegraph
lines; but that the purpose of the Railroad Company is to place
upon the lines of railway telegraph lines to be owned or used
by another telegraph company, and it is alleged that the lines
of the Telegraph Company will not interfere with the ordinary
travel and use of the railways.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 5417
195 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

The directors of the Telegraph Company accepted the act
of July 24, 1866, and filed an acceptance with the Postmaster
General of the United States June 8, 1867.
The acts of Congress hereinafter mentioned and set out are
referred to in the bill, and a full compliance therewith alleged,
whereby, it is further alleged, the Telegraph Company became
and is entitled to maintain its lines on the railroads of the
Railroad Company upon paying just compensation, the payment of which was offered. The prayer is that the court
order and decree the amount of compensation to be paid by
the Telegraph Company, or, if the court order compensation
to be ascertained at law, it then be decreed that upon payment of such compensation a perpetual injunction issue.
A preliminary injunction was ordered. 120 Fed. Rep. 981.
It was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 123 Fed.
Rep. 33.
A controversy ensued upon the form of the decree. The
Circuit Court of Appeals simply reversed the order of the
Circuit Court granting a preliminary injunction. The Telegraph Company moved that the decree be modified so as to
direct the dismissal of the bill. The motion was refused, and
the Telegraph Company took an appeal to this court. Subsequently the Circuit Court sua sponte entered an order dismissing the bill, and the Telegraph Company appealed therefrom to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The case was then
removed to this court by certiorari.
Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr. Rush Taggart and Mr. Henry 4).
Estabrook, with whom Mr. Richard Vliet Lindabury was on the
brief, for appellant and petitioner:
The Telegraph Company, having in 1867 accepted the conditions of the act of 1866, and faithfully performed all the
obligations imposed thereby, has paid and is paying to the
Federal Government a full and continuing consideration for
the rights granted by Congress under those acts, and has
thereby become not only a special and peculiar agency of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Arg nment for Petitioner.

195 U. S.

Government, but the Government, under its option of purchase, has acquired a vested interest in the property and
franchises of petitioner more real and tangible than its interest
or property in the public mails committed to its charge. 14
Stat. 221; Rev. Stat. §§ 5263 et seq. The Federal Government has a property in the mail. Searight v. Stokes, 3 How.
151; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 583. See also act of June 10, 1872.
The Government of the United States has jurisdiction over
every foot of soil within its territory, and within its enumerated
powers has full attributes of sovereignty within the limits of
those powers, among which are the power over interstate
commerce and the power to establish post offices and post
roads. Western Un. Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650; In re
Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; L. S. &
Mich. So. R. R. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285.
To trace historically the evolution of the doctrine in question, see 2 Story Const., Ch. 18; 1 Kent's Com. 267, and the
portions of Elliott's Debates therein referred to; United States
v. Kochersperger, No. 15,541, Fed. Cases; the various cases
growing out of the abandonment of the Cumberland Road,
particularly Searight v. Stokes, 3 How. 150, 1845; Neil v. Ohio,
3 How. 720; Achison v. Huddleson, 12 How. 293.
Federal sovereignty can appropriate property within a
State without the consent or acquiescence of the State. Trombley v. Humphry, 23 Michigan, 471; Cooley's Const. Lim.
cited in Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367.
When the highways of a State are, by act of Congress,
established post roads of the United States, they become part
of the postal equipment of the Federal Government and subject to its-paramount authority for postal and military purposes.
The constitutionality of the act of 1866 has never been
questioned. It has uniformly been held that under this act,
telegraph companies accepting its provisions have the right
to occupy with their lines of telegraph the streets of a city
and the roads of a State which by act of Congress have been

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 549
195 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

established post roads of the United States. Postal Tel. &
Cable Co. v. Oregon Short Line R. R. Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 787;
W. U. Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Western Union Tel. Co.
Sv. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 554.
If the highways, owned and operated by a State, are sub-'
ject to the paramount authority of Congress for postal and
military uses, could anything less be said of a highway, such
as a turnpike, authorized by the State, but operated by a
corporate agency created by the State. West. Un. Tel. Co.
v. City of New York, 38 Fed. Rep. 552; St. Louis v. Western
Union Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92; United States v. Union Pac. Ry.,
160 U. S. 1; Postal Tel. Co. v. Oregon Short Line R. R., 65 Pac.
Rep. 735; Hewett, et al., v. Western Union Tel. Co., 4 Mackey,
424.
The primary use of a highway is for the purpose of travel,
but the occupation of the highway by telegraph lines, if so
maintained and operated as not to interfere with the primary
use, is not only permissible, but, thus limited, has been held
not to constitute an additional servitude.- A highway is
created not alone for the purpose of travel, but for commerce and the transmission of intelligence. Julia Building
Association v. Bell Tel., 88 Missouri, 258; Cater v. Northwestern
Tel. Ex. Co., 60 Minnesota, 593; Magee v. Overshiner, 40 L. R.
A. 370; People v. Eaton, 100 Michigan, 208; Pierce v. Drew,
136 Massachusetts, 75; Hershfield v. Rocky Mt. Bell Tel. Co.,
2 Montana, 103.
A post, etymologically defined, is a mode of conveying
written or unwritten intelligence. According to this the teleUnited States v. Kochersperger, 26 Fed.
graph is a "post."
Cas. 803.
A railroad is a highway, not simply sub modo, but intrinsically and per se, in the same category precisely as roads, streets,
alleys, turnpikes, plank roads, tramways, bridges, ferries,
canals and navigable rivers. Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall.
678; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564; Monongahela N. Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312; Cherokee Nation v. So. Kansas R. R.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Petitioner.

195 U. S.

135 U. S. 641, 657; L. S. & M. S. R. R. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Trunick v. Smith, 63 Pa. St. 18;
Californiav. Pacific R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1, 39; W. M. & P.
R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 296; L. & N. R. R. Co. v.
"Kentucky, 161 U. S. 696; Mich. Tel. Co. v. City of Charlotte, 93
Fed. Rep. 11. And taxes may be imposed for their construction and maintenance. Railroad Company v. County of Otoe,
16 Wall. 667, 673; Queensbury v. Culver, 19 Wall. 83, 91;
People v. Flagg, 46 N. Y. 401.
The primary purpose of every highway is public travel,
traffic, commerce, communication. But the manner of use
within the range of physical possibility is for the legislature
to determine. It is because railroads are highways that Congress is empowered to establish them as post and military
roads of the United States.
The power of Congress to establish the railroads of the
United States as military and 'post roads is not a dormant
power, but has been asserted and enforced by the Federal
Government from the day the first railroad company was
chartered. It has frequently been exercised as to railway
bridges. 17 Stat. 99, 120, 160, 379. See also 5 Stat. 283;
10 Stat. 255; 12 Stat. 334; 14 Stat. 66; 17 Stat. 308, where in
the case of such, highways as the waters of the United States,
canals and plank roads, Congress declares them to be post
roads "during the time the mail is carried thereon." Is not
the omission of this qualification in the case of railroads
somewhat significant?
By the act of 1866, and correlated acts, Congress declared
a policy and a purpose, that to encourage and facilitate intercommunication among the people, the companies operating
the railroads and telegraphs of the United States should be
mutually accommodating and codperative, and should, so far
as practicable, construct their lines of railroad and telegraph
along the same rights of way. This policy is not only manifest
from the title and context of the act of 1866, but from its
history and the debates in Congress prior to its passage. This

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 551
195 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

policy has been discovered and declared by the courts, and
numerous States have extended the policy by legislative enactment to include the telephone. Not only so, but through the
dictates of self-interest and mutual accommodation, railroad
and telegraph companies, from the earliest times, have under
contract and agreement, operated side by side, so that today
there is not, nor has there ever been, a railroad in the United
States, over and along which telegraph lines have not been
constructed, maintained and operated. Cong. Globe, Pt. IV,
1st Sess. 39th Cong., pp. 3480-3490; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; United States v. Union Pac. Ry. Co.,
160 U. S. 1, 41, 49; Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Postal Tel.
Cable Co. v. Oregon Short Line, 114 Fed. Rep. 787; Postal
Tel. Cable Co. v. Southern Ry. Co., 89 Fed. Rep. 190; Postal
Tel. Cable Co. v. Oregon Short Line, 65 Pac. Rep. 735; West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. B. & S. W. Ry. Co., 3 McCrary, 130; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. B. & 0. Tel. Co., 19 Fed. Rep. 660; Southern Bell
Tel. Co. v. Richnond, 78 Fed. Rep. 858.
Not only so, but the statutes of many States extend the
right to occupy the highways of the State, including the highways called railroads, to telephone companies-this court having limited the application of the act of July 24, 1866, to telegraph companies proper. New Orleans, M. & T. R. R. Co. v.
S. & A. T. Co., 53 Alabama, 211; Colorado: Urdon Pac. R. Co.
v. Colo. Postal Tel. Cable Co., 69 Pac. Rep. 564; Georgia: S. F.
& W. Ry. Co. v. Postal Tel. Co., 38 S. E. Rep. 353; Idaho: Postal Tel. Co. v. 0. St. Line Ry. Co., 104 Fed. Rep. 623; Illinois:
St. L. & C. R. R. Co. v. Postal Tel. Co., 173 Illinois, 508;
Kentucky: Postal Tel. Co. v. Mobile & 0. R. Co., 54 S. W. Rep.
727; Louisiana: Postal Tel. Co. v. M., L. & T. R. R. & S. S.
Co., 21 So. Rep. 183; Mississippi: Mobile & 0. R. Co. v. Postal
Tel. Co., 26 So. Rep. 370; North Carolina: Phillips v. Postal
Tel. Co., 41 S. E. Rep. 1022; Tennessee: Mobile & 0. Ry. Co.
v. Postal Tel. Co., 41 L. R. A. 403; Texas: T. & N. 0. Ry. Co.
v. Postal Tel. Co., 52 S. W. Rep. 108; Virginia: Postal Tel.
Co. v. Farmville & P. R. Co., 32 S. E. Rep. 468; Utah: Postal

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
195 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

Tel. Co. v. Oregon Short Line, 65 Pac. Rep. 735; Ohio: R. S.
§§ 3454 et seq.
By the act of 1866, the Western Union Telegraph Company,
having accepted its provisions, was in express terms granted,
among other things, "the right to construct, maintain and
operate lines of telegraph over and along" the railroads of the
defendant railroad company, provided only that its lines be
so constructed and maintained as not to interfere with the
ordinary travel on the railroads.
The right granted to the Western Union Telegraph Company by the act of 1866, is simply of an easement of use, in an
easement, yielding at all times to the necessities of the paramount use, and limited at all times to the non-interference
with the primary uses of the railroad company.
A right granted in such manner is not unusual, see cases
cited supra.
As to whether Congress, under its constitutional powers
over the highways of the nation, as military and post roads,
may appropriate the use of such post roads for the construction and operation of postal telegraph lines owned by it, or
by one of its agencies, so long as the same shall not interfere
with the ordinary travel on such military and post roads,
without making compensation, either to the owners of the
post roads or to the owners of reversionary interests therein,
see Pittsburgh & W. E. Pass. Ry. v. Point Bridge Co., 165 Pa.
St. 37; Stockton v. B. & N. Y. R. R. Co., 32 Fed. Rep. 9;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 57 Fed. Rep. 803; S. C., 179 U. S. 141,
and authorities cited; Hawkins Point Light House Case, 39
Fed. Rep. 77; S. C., 155 U. S. 102; Gibson v. United States,
166 U. S. 269; Hewett v. W. U. Tel. Co., 4 Mackey, 424; Monongahela Nav. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 324; Hill
v. United States, 149 U. S. 593.
As to the public character of a railway, see act incorporating
N. J. R. R. and Transportation Company, by the legislature
of New Jersey, March 7, 1832; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3;
Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 296; Lake

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 553
195 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

Superior &c. R. R. Co., 93 U. S. 442; § 21 Penna. R. R. Co.
Charter, Pamphlet Laws of Pennsylvania, 1846, p, 312; Trunick
v. -Smith, 63 Pa. St. 18; People's Telephone v. President &c.,
199 Pa. St. 411. For decisions pro and con as to whether a
telegraph line is an additional servitude, see Nichol v. Telegraph Co., 62 N. J. L. 733, as reported in 7 Am. Elec. Cas.
277, with note by Edw. Q. Keasbey.
If a telegraph company, accepting the obligations of the
act of 1866, in attempting to avail itself of the rights and
privileges granted it by said act in public and such quasipublic property as the military and-post roads of the United
States, finds it necessary to appropriate to its use private
property involved with the public and quasi-public property,
the grant made by Congress will not be declared void as transcending the constitutional powers of Congress, but the Constitution itself will be read into the act and the act interpreted
in connection therewith and the courts will provide the court
machinery necessary to determine judicially the amount of
just compensation to be paid therefor.
The right to condemn may be exercised on the theory that
an implied right has been granted. 10 Am. & Eng. Ency.
of Law, 1054.
Statutes should be sustained rather than ignored. Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420; Fenton v. Hampdon, 11 Moore's P. C. 360; Sutherland's Statutory Construction, §§ 295, 324, 332, 340, 341, 343, 344, 379, 382, 388.
The constitutional inhibition against taking private property without just compensation, being negative, is self-executing, and is to be read into every law and statute where applicable. In re Rugheimer, 36 Fed. Rep. 369; Hickman v.
City of Kansas, 41 Am. St. Rep. 684, and note; West. Un. Tel.
Co. v. Williams, 8 L. R. A. 429. Compare Neal v. Delaware,
103 U. S. 370; East St. Louis v. Amy, 120 U. S. 600; Kentucky
Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321, 334. Where a right is given
by law or statute, and no special machinery is provided for the
enforcement of the law, the courts will supply the machinery,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Petitioner.

195 U. S.

either by adopting the machinery already in use or the machinery in vogue at common law, which, in cases of condemnation, was the writ ad quod damnum, which simply means that
the amount of compensation to be paid to an owner for the
appropriation of his private property to a public use shall be
determined by a full jury. Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S.
367; United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513; High Bridge Co. v.
United States, 69 Fed. Rep. 320; Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98
U. S. 403; Dashiell v. Grosvenor, 66 Fed. Rep. 338; New York
v. Pine, 185 U. S. 93; Galway v. Elevated Ry. Co., 128 N. Y.
132; Shepard v.,Elevated R. R. Co., 117 N. Y. 442; Osborne v.
Mo. Pac. Ry. Co., 147 U. S. 248; McElroy v. Kansas City, 21
Fed. Rep. 357; United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S.
645; St. Paul &c. Ry. Co. v. W. U. T. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 497.
As to the writ ad quod damnum, see 2 Lewis Em. Dom. § 402;
Scudder v. T. D. F. Co., 1 Sax. Ch. (N. J.) 694; Hooker v.
New Haven & N. Co., 14 Connecticut, 146; Jerome v. Ross,
7 Johns. Ch. 315; Wheelock v. Young, 4 Wend. 650; Stevens
v. Middlesex County, 12 Massachusetts, 466; Bloodgood v. M.
& H. R. R. Co., 18 Wend. 9; Beekman v. S. & S. R. R.
Co., 3 Paige Ch. 45; Upshur County v. Rich, 135 U. S. 467,
476.
The act of 1866, necessarily implies that the beneficiary is
vested with the power of eminent domain if, to avail itself of
the rights granted, private property, incidentally involved
with the specific property appropriated to its use, is also appropriated by it; otherwise the grant would fail. Murphy v.
Kingston &c. R. R. Co., 11 Ontario, 582, distinguished.
No case involving the principal issue herein has ever been
presented to this court. The Pensacola case and the Ann
Arbor case, on this point are not only clearly obiter, but by
no means justify the significance attributed to them.
While the principal issue has never been presented to this
court lesser courts have construed the act of 1866 according
to the principles contended for by the petitioner. Postal Tel.Cable Co. v. Oregon Short Line, 114 Fed. Rep. 787; Postal

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 555
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Tel.-Cable Co. v. Southern R. R. Co., 89 Fed. Rep. 190; Postal
Tel.-Cable Co. v. Oregon Short Line, 65 Pac. Rep. 735; St. P.,
M. & M. R. R. Co. v. W.'U. Tel. Co. (C. C. A.), 118 Fed. Rep.
497. Cf. St. Louis v. W. U. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92; United States
v. Union Pac. Ry. Co', 160 U. S. 1, 41; Southern Bell Telephone
Co. v. Richmond, 78 Fed. Rep. 858; Union Trust Co. v. A., T.
& S. F. R. R. Co. (New Mex.), 43 Pac. Rep. 701; Mercantile
Trust Co. v. Atlantic & Pac. R. R. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 513;
W. U. Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles Electric Co., 76 Fed. Rep. 178;
but see contra, Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. C., C., C. & St.
L. R. R. Co., 94 Fed. Rep. 234.
As to the construction of the act of 1866 and the weight to
be given to its title and the discussion attending its passage,
see Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457; Coosaw
Mining Co. v. South Carolina, 144 U. S. 559; Price v. Forrest,
173 U. S. 410, 427.
While to ascertain the meaning of an act, the mere discussion
in Congress is not given special weight in some of the decisions
of this court, yet reference is frequently made to reports of
committees for the purpose of confirming the construction
adopted by the court. Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wall. 610;
Untermeyer v. Freund, 50 Fed. Rep. 80; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 36 Fed. Rep. 285; United States v. Union Pac.
R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 554; Austin v. United States, 25 C. Cl.
454; United States v. Burr, 159 U. S. 85.
Mr. John G. Johnson for appellees and respondents in Nos. 89
and 199 and defendant in error in No. 90.
Power to enter upon a railroad right of way by a telegraph
company is not conferred in Pennsylvania by any general or
special statute of that Commonwealth. Nor is the Pennsylvania Railroad a public highway within the meaning of the
act of 1866. Nor. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Commonwealth, 90 Pennsylvania, 305; Telephone Co. v. Turnpike Road, 199 Pennsylvania, 415. As to the status of the railroad company's title
see Junction Railroad Co. v. Philadelphia, 88 Pennsylvania,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellees.

195 U. S.

427; P. & R. R. R. Co. v. Hummell, 44 Pennsylvania, 375;
Schuylkill Valley R. R. Co. v. Reading Paper Mills, 149 Pennsylvania, 18; Philadelphia v. Ward, 174 Pennsylvania, 45;
Railway Co. v. Peet, 152 Pennsylvania, 488.
It is thoroughly well settled by the Pennsylvania decisions
that a right of way, appropriated to a corporation for a quasipublic use, cannot be appropriated by another quasi-public
corporation, for its uses, by implication. Under these decisions, an unrestricted general right to appropriate is construed as not including the power to seize the property of
another corporation. Penna. R. R. Co.'s Appeal, 93 Pa. St.
150; Pittsburgh Junction R. R. Co.'s Appeal, 122 Pa. St. 511;
Sharon Railway Co.'s Appeal, 122 Pa. St. 533; Groff's Appeal,
128 Pa. St. 621; Market Co. v. Railroad Co., 142 Pa. St. 580;
Pittsburgh Junction R. R. Co. v. Alleghany R. R. Co., 146 Pa.
St. 297; Perry County R. R. Co. v. Railroad Co., 150 Pa. St.
193; Penna. R. R. Co. v. Schuylkill Nay. Co., 167 Pa. St. 576;
Youghiogheny Bridge Co. v. Railroad Co., 201 Pa. St. 457. It
has recently been held in Pennsylvania that the right of
eminent domain does not exist in telegraph companies. Penna.
Telephone Co. v..Hoover, 24 Pa. Super. Ct. 96.
If the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company possessed the
right of condemnation claimed by the appellant, such right was
exercisable only under a petition by it presented, and the proceedings in Pennsylvania were defective for want of the proper
parties. Act of 1871, P. L. 516; P. L. 1868, 1191.
Had the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company been made
petitioner in the condemnation proceedings the Circuit Court
would have had no jurisdiction because of a lack of diverse
citizenship.
No right is conferred upon telegraph companies by the act
of 1866 to appropriate any portion of the right of way of railroad companies. Pensacola Tel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co.,
96 U. S. 1; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 178
U. S. 239; St. Louis v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92; West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts,125 U. S. 530. United States v.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 557
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Union Pac. Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 1; St. Paul Railway Co. v. West.
Un. Tel. Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 497, distinguished.
The Telegraph Company had no consent from the Railroad
Company. The act of 1866 makes no provision for compensation and no procedure can be sustained under it. Postal
Tel. Cable Co. v. Cleveland Railway Co., 94 Fed. Rep. 234;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 90 Fed. Rep.
379.

The Railroad C6mpany was entitled to the remedy given
by its contract. If the Telegraph Company was entitled to
appropriate part of its right of way, it was restricted, as were
all other telegraph companies, to the right arising under such
appropriation. It acquired no right before consummation
of the condemnation proceedings, to an injunction against the
enforcement of its contract.
As the Postal Telegraph-Cable Company had acquired a
right antecedently to the alleged appropriation by the appellant, which rendered a location of additional wires and poles
by the latter impossible, tliere was no right on the part of the
latter to appropriate even if the act of 1866 allowed condemnation.
There was no waiver of the notice to remove given by the
Railroad Company in May, 1902.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

after stating the case as above,

delivered the opinion of the court.
By an act of Congress, approved July 7, 1838, and by subsequent acts, March 3, 1853, 10 Stat. 249, 255, c. 146; sec. 3964,
Rev. Stat., June 8, 1872, 17 Stat. 283, railroads within the
limits of the United States were made post routes or roads.
By act of March 1, 1884, it is provided "that all public roads
and highways, while kept up and maintained as such, are
hereby declared to be post routes." 23 Stat. 3, c. 9.
The act of 1866 is as follows, 14 Stat. 221, c. 230:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

the United States of America in Congress assembled, That any
telegraph company now organized, or which may hereafter be
organized under the laws of any State in this Union, shall have
the right to construct, maintain, and operate lines of telegraph
through and over any portion of the public domain of the
United States, over and along any of the military or post roads
of the United States which have been or may hereafter be declared such by act of Congress, and over, under, or across the
navigable streams of waters of the United States: Provided,
That such lines of telegraph shall be so constructed and maintained as not to obstruct the navigation of such streams and
waters, or interfere with the ordinary travel of such military
or post roads. And any of said companies shall have the right
to take and use from such public lands the necessary stone,
timber, and other materials for its posts, piers, stations, and
other needful uses in the construction, maintenance, and
operation of said lines of telegraph, and may preempt and
use such portion of the unoccupied public lands subject to
preemption through which its said lines of telegraph may be
located as may be necessary for its stations, not exceeding
forty acres for each station; but such stations shall not be
within fifteen miles of eachother.
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That telegraphic communications between the several departments of the Government of the United States and their officers and agents shall,
in their transmission over the lines of any of said companies,
have priority over all other business, and shall be sent at rates
to be annually fixed by the Postmaster General.
"SEc. 3. And be it further enacted, That the rights and privileges hereby granted shall not be transferred by any company
acting under this act to any other corporation, association, or
person: Provided, however, That the United States may at any
time after the expiration of five years from the date of the
passage of this act, for postal, military, or other purposes,
purchase all the telegraph lines, property, and effects of any
or all of said companies at an appraised value, to be ascer-

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 559
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tained by five competent, disinterested persons, two of whom
shall be selected by the Postmaster General of the United
States, two by the coinpany interested, and one by the four
so previously selected.
"SEc. 4. And be it further enacted, That before any telegraph
company shall exercise any of the powers or privileges conferred by this act, such company shall file their written acceptance with the Postmaster General of the restrictions and
obligations required by this act."
The construction of this act is the fundamental question in
the case. The Telegraph Company contends that the necessary implication from the provisions of the act is that telegraph companies may enter and appropriate for their poles
and lines a part of the rights of way of railroads in invitum
upon paying just compensation. In other words, that the
act invests telegraph companies with the right of eminent
domain. The Railroad Company denies this construction,
and asserts that the act gives the consent of the Government
to telegraph companies to construct lines through its public
domain and over and along its military and post roads, which
are not the property of private corporations, and across navigable streams and waters. The act gives no right, the Railroad Company contends, to appropriate private property; but
is an exercise by Congress of the national power over interstate commerce to secure telegraph companies from "hostile
state legislation or contracts violative of an announced, public
policy." In other words, the contention of the Railroad Company is, that after the act of 1866 was passed, it "became impossible for the States, by any legislation, to exclude telegraph
companies from the post roads." The contentions of the
parties are opposed, therefore, only as to the degree of right
conferred by the act. It is asserted by one party, and unqualifiedly admitted by the other, that Congress has power to
grant the power of eminent domain to corporations organized
for national purposes, and the arguments of the parties are
addressed only to the considerations which serve to deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

mine the intention of Congress. Both parties also claim authority for their respective contentions.
1. The act of 1866 came before this court for consideration
over twenty-five years ago, in Pensacola Telegraph Company
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1. The language of
the court defining the rights conferred by the act has recently
been repeated and sanctioned in Western Union Telegraph
Company v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 178 U. S. 239. In both cases
the judgment of the court was adverse to the rights claimed
under that act by the Telegraph Company in the case at bar.
A review of those cases, therefore, and a consideration of the
arguments directed against them and in support of them will
constitute the most appropriate discussion of the questions
now presented, and apply immediately to their solution the
authority of this court.
In Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
96 U. S. 1, the legislature of Florida in 1866 granted to the
Pensacola Telegraph Company "the sole and exclusive privilege and right" of maintaining and operating lines of telegraph through certain counties of the State. In 1872 the
property of the Alabama and Florida Railroad Company was
transferred to the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company. On the fourteenth of February, 1873, the legislature
of Florida passed an act, which was amended in 1874, authorizing the last-named company to construct and maintain a telegraph line along its railroad, and to connect with lines in and
out of the State. This was in the territory embraced by the
exclusive grant to the Pensacola Telegraph Company.
On the twenty-fourth of June, 1874, the Pensacola and
Louisville Railroad Company granted to the Western Union
Telegraph Company the right to erect a telegraph line upon
its right of way, and transferred to it all the rights and privileges conferred by the acts of February, 1873, and 1874. The
Western Union Company immediately commenced the erection of the line, but before its completion the Pensacola
Telegraph Company filed a bill to enjoin the work, on account

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 561
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the alleged exclusive right of that company under its
charter. Upon the hearing a decree was passed dismissing
the bill, and an appeal was taken to this court. The Western
Union Telegraph Company had accepted the act of 1866, and
claimed to erect and maintain a telegraph line under its agreement with the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company,
and under the provisions of that act. The case, therefore,
presented an issue between rights asserted under a statute of
Florida and rights given and protected by the act of 1866.
The issue was important. The act of 1866 was presented for
the first time for interpretation and upon it depended not
only the private rights of the contending companies but the
pnore serious conflict of powers derived from the National and
state governments. The questions, therefore, which bore on
these issues called for, and, it is evident from the opinion of
the court, received careful attention.
The first of these questions was whether the act of 1866 was
a grant to telegraph companies of portions of the public domain and of rights in the public domain, or a grant of rights
having a broader field of exercise-a grant of rights having
operation and to be exercised throughout the whole of the
United States. There was a marked difference in the rights
contended for, and they depended upon different powers. In
the public domain the Government was proprietor as well as
sovereign, elsewhere only sovereign, and on its powers as
sovereign there were limitations, arising not only from the
rights of the States, but arising from the ownership of private
property and the necessity of a grant of eminent domain to
appropriate it. These limitations were of consequence in fixing exactly the rights conferred by the act of 1866, and were
regarded by the court in its construction of that act.
The court declared, through Chief Justice Waite, that the
act of 1866 was an exercise of the power of Congress over interstate commerce and the power to establish post offices and
post roads, and, like other powers of the National Government, could be exercised "upon every foot of territory under
voL. oxov-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

its jurisdiction." It was held, therefore, that the act was not
a grant of rights only in the public domain, and the character
of the rights was made unmistakable. The statute, the court
said, "in effect amounts to a prohibition of all state monopolies"
in commercial intercourse by telegraph. This is expressed
more than once as the fundamental idea and sole purpose of
the statute. The court further said: "It (the statute) substantially declares, in the interest of commerce and the convenient transmission of intelligence from place to place by the
Government of the United States and its citizens, that the
erection of telegraph lines shall, so far as state interference is
concerned, be free to all who will submit to the conditions imposed by Congress, and that corporations organized under the
laws of one State for constructing and operating telegraph lines
shall not be excluded from prosecuting their business within
its jurisdiction, if they accept the terms proposed by the National Government for this national privilege. To this extent,
certainly, the statute is a legitimate regulation of commercial
intercourse among the States, and is appropriate legislation
to carry into, execution the power of Congress over the postal
service.
And this construction, making the act of 1866 merely an
exercise of national power to withdraw from state control or
interference commercial intercourse by telegraph, is further
emphasized in the opinion and the objections to it completely
answered, which were based on the ownership of the post
roads by individuals or corporations, and the necessity of
implying a grant of the power of eminent domain to telegraph
companies to appropriate them. The court said (p. 11):
q( "It [the act of 1866] gives no foreign corporation the right
to enter upon private property without the consent of the
owner and erect the necessary structures for its business,.but
it does provide, that, whenever the consent of the owner is
obtained, no state legislation shall prevent the occupation of
post roads for telegraph purposes by such corporations as are
willing to avail themselves of its privileges."

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 563
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And again (p. 12):
"No question arises as to the authority of Congress to provide for the appropriation of private property to the uses of
the telegraph, for no such attempt has been made. The use
of public property alone is granted. If private property
is required, it must,-7-Tr as the present legislation is concerned, be obtained by private arrangement with its owner.
No compulsory proceedings are authorized. State sovereignty
under the Constitution is not interfered with. Only national
privileges are granted."
This language and the distinctions imported by it were approved in Western Union Telegraph Company v. Ann Arbor
Railroad Co., 178 U. S.239. It was a bill in equity filed in the
Circuit Court of Benzie County, Michigan, by a telegraph
company against a railway company to restrain the latter
from interfering with the rights of the telegraph company in
a certain telegraph line along the right of way of the railroad.
It was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States. The
Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and its action was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 33 C. C. A. 113. The Westem Union Telegraph Company brought the case here. The
decrees of both courts were reversed and the case remanded
to the Circuit Court with directions to remand the case to the
state court. This was decreed on the ground that; by the
statement of the complainant's (telegraph company) own case,
it was not brought "within the category of cases arising under
the laws or Constitution of the United States." We said that
the bill was in effect for the specific performance of a contract. "It is not argued," we said (p. 243), by the Chief Justice, "by counsel for the telegraph company that the telegraph
company had any right under the statute, and independently
of the contract, to maintain and operate this telegraph line
over the railroad company's property; and it has been long
settled that that statute did not confer on telegraph companies
the right to enter on private property without the consent of
the owner, and erect the necessary structures for their busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

ness; 'but it does provide that, whenever the consent of the
owner is obtained, no state legislation shall prevent the occupation of post roads for telegraph purposes by such corporations as are willing to avail themselves of its privileges.' "
And further (p. 244): "As we have said, it was not asserted
in argument that the telegraph company had the right independently of the contract to maintain its line on the railroad
company's property, and in view of the settled construction
of the statute, we could not permit such a contention to be
recognized as the basis of jurisdiction." In other words, by
the decision in the Pensacola case no such Federal question
remained to be based on the act of 1866.
Counsel, however, pronounce the extracts quoted from the
Pensacola case and their repetition in the Ann Arbor case as
dicta, and urge besides that the irresistible logic of other cases
overthrows the authority of both. Neither proposition is
tenable. We have said enough to demonstrate that the language we have quoted was the deliberate resolution of the
court, and we might content ourselves by observing that, as
the Ann Arbor case is the last expression of this court interpreting the act of 1866, prior cases, if not reconcilable with its
exposition of that act, are superseded. We think they are
so reconcilable.
One of the cases which is relied on, Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, asserted the very
valuable right obtained by telegraph companies under the act
of 1866, and vindicated it against a statute of Massachusetts,
which provided for an injunction against the prosecution of
business by the company as a means of enforcing the payment
of taxes. This is the very essence of the effect given to the
act of 1866 by the Pensacola and Ann Arbor cases. The telegraph company was in occupation of the post roads of the
State of Massachusetts, whether railroads or the ordinary
highways does not appear. Its right to be there was not
controverted, and how it got there was of no consequence.
Its right to do business after and during such occupation was

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 565
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

involved and was decided, and to this right the language of
the court was addressed, and received limitation from it. The
language of the court was substantially the same as that of
the act of Congress. It enforced the right given by that act,
and gave to the telegraph company the protection of the
national power and supremacy, and differs only in the instance, not in the principle, declared in the Pensacola case.
The telegraph company, indeed, sought for more than the
mere exercise of a right. It sought to turn the act of 1866
from a mere permission to exercise a right to the creation of
such an instrumentality of the National Government as to
be exempt from state taxation. The court rejected that view.
So also must be limited the language in Telegraph Company
v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, and United States v. Union Pacific
Railway Co. & Western Union Telegraph Co., 160 U. S. 1.
In the first the distinction which was necessary to make was
between intra and interstate commerce, and to determine
what rights as to the latter were conferred by the act of 1866.
In the second case the efficacy of the act to prevent binding
contracts against its policy was involved. The case called
for that but no more, as far as the act of 1866 was concerned.
Such an agreement was set up, and under it the Western Union
Telegraph Company claimed the right to exclude all other
telegraph companies from the roadway of the railway company, notwithstanding the act of 1866. Mr. Justice Harlan,
speaking for the court, said (p. 42), that such an agreement
"directly tended to make the act of July 24, 1866, ineffectual,
and was, therefore, hostile to the object contemplated by
Congress. Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1, 11.
We need not dissent from these views or qualify the general
language by which they were amplified and supported. What.ever rights were granted by the act of 1866 were granted to all
telegraph companies, and could not be defeated by a binding
contract with some one company, nor could such an agreement be used to evade or escape the commands of the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

constituting the Union Pacific Railway, passed in 1862, or
the supplementary act of 1888, which was passed by virtue
of a power reserved in the act of 1862. The suit was brought
to enforce the duties and obligations imposed by those statutes on the railway company. The statutes are quoted in the
opinion, and the act of 1866 is referred to only as reinforcing
the provisions of the statute of 1862. It was only necessary,
therefore, to declare the policy of the act of 1866 as a grant
of rights to all telegraph companies. The consideration of
the court was not directed to anything else. The extent of
the rights granted as presented in the case at bar could not
have been in contemplation. They were not in issue, and it
could not have been intended to anticipate and decide the
controveisies which might be based upon them.
St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Company, 148 U. S.
92, is also urged by the Telegraph Company as inconsistent
with the Ann Arbor case. It is clearly not so. The case involved the validity of a charge or rental made by the city of
St. Louis for the use of its streets by the telegraph company.
The charge was imposed by the same ordinance that gave permission to the telegraph company to occupy the streets of the
city. The telegraph company resisted the charge upon several
grounds, among which were the provisions of the act of 1866,
and its acceptance by the company. The charge was held to
be a valid one, but on no ground which involved the consideration of the right of the telegraph company to occupy the
streets. The right was not disputed. The ordinance of the
city conferred it. The claim made under the act of 1866 was
that it exempted the telegraph company from a payment of
any compensation. But compensation was decreed on the
ground that the franchise or privilege granted by the act of
1866 could only be exercised in subordination to public as well
as private rights, and, as entry upon the latter could only be
made upon the payment of just compensation, entry upon the
former was subject to the same payment. This was all that
was necessary to decide to sustain the charge made by the

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 567
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

city. In other words, it was all that was necessary to decide
to meet the extreme contention made by the telegraph company, that under the act of 1866 it was entitled to occupy the
streets without charge, notwithstanding its occupation was
exclusive and permanent, as the court said it was. It is manifest that to hold there can be no entry upon property without
payment of compensation, is not to decide that such entry
can be made upon tender of compensation. Certainly, as to
private property or rights, the non-consent of the owner is
a factor to be dealt with. Non-consent, if resolute, can only
be overcome by power conferred by law; in other words, by
the exercise of eminent domain. The act -of 1866 was not
considered in that regard.
By this review of the cases it is evident that there is no
inconsistency between them and the Pensacola case and the
Ann Arbor case, and we are brought to the discussion of the
general considerations urged against the latter cases. Construed, as they construe the act of 1866, it becomes meaningless, counsel say. If the act grants no rights, it is urged,
except by permission of the railroad companies, it confers
no more than can be obtained from the railroad companies.
The objection is best answered by examples. The telegraph
company had such permission in the Pensacolacase. It needed,
however, the act of 1866 to make its exercise effectual against
the legislation of the State of Florida. In the Union Pacific
case a claim of a monopoly by one telegraph company was
answered by the act construed as a grant of rights to all companies. These examples show important results achieved by
the act, and the principles of the cases may come to be applied
to prevent other hostile action of States or individuals.
This court, when it came to consider the act of 1866 in the
Pensacola case, was confronted, as we are confronted now,
with the serious nature of the right of eminent domain. It
is indeed "inseparable from sovereignty," but it is accompanied and restrained by inexorable limitations. The property taken must be for a public use, and there must be coin-

OCTOBER TERMA, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

pensation made for it, and compensation, whether it be regarded as part of the power or a limitation upon the power, is
so far essential that the absence of a provision for it has been
regarded as important in determining the intention of the
legislature when a grant of such power is claimed. 1 Lewis
Eminent Domain, section 240, and cases cited. We said in
Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 399, by Mr. Justice Harlan:
"It is a condition precedent to the exercise of such power
(eminent domain) that the statute make provision for reasonable compensation to the owner." Many state cases were
cited, and also (p. 402), Cherokee.Nation v. Southern Kansas
Railway Co., 135 U. S. 641. The act of Congress under review
in the latter case, it was contended, did not provide for compensation for the property taken. In reply, Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion of the court, said (p. 659): "The
objection to the act cannot be sustained. The Constitution
declares that private property shall not be taken 'for public
use without just compensation.' It does not provide or require that compensation shall be actually paid in advance
of the occupancy of the land to be taken. But the owner is
entitled to reasonable, certain and adequate provision for obtaining compensation before his occupancy is disturbed.
Whether a particular provision be sufficient to secure the
compensation to which, under the Constitution, he is entitled, is sometimes a question of difficulty." The requirements of the Constitution were held to be fully met because
the act which was under consideration provided that before
the railway which was authorized should be constructed
through any of the lands proposed to be taken, full compensation should be made to the owner for all property taken, or
damage done by reason of the construction of the road, and in
the event of an appeal from the finding of the referee the railway company should pay into court double the amount of
the award to abide the judgment.
In Kohl et al. v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, acts of Congress
were considered, one providing for the-acquisition of a site

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 569
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for a public building, the other an appropriation act. The
appropriation made by the latter was "for the purchase, at a
private sale or by condemnation, of ground for a site" for
the building. The real controversy in the case was whether
the acts of Congress intended the site to be obtained under
the authority of the state government in the exercise of its
power of eminent domain or by the United States Government in its own right, and by virtue of its own eminent domain. The court held the latter, and, commenting on the
sufficiency of the acts to give the right, said (p. 374): "The
authority here given [the first act] was to purchase. If that
were all, it might be doubted whether the right of eminent
domain was intended to be invoked. .
. That Congress
intended more than this is evident, however, in view of the
subsequent and amendatory act passed June 10, 1872, which
made an appropriation 'for the purchase at private sale or
by condemnation of the ground for a site' for the building."
But in the act of July, 1866, there is not a word which provides for condemnation or compensation. The rule that when
a right is given all the means of exercising it are given does
not, as we have seen, apply to the extent contended for by
the Telegraph Company. The exercise of the power of eminent domain is against common right. It subverts the usual
attributes of the ownership of property. It must, therefore,
be given in express terms or by necessary implication, and this
was the reasoning in the Pensacola case and applied directly
to the act of 1866. We may repeat the language of the court:
"If private property is required it must, so far as the present
legislation is concerned, be obtained by private arrangement
with its owner. No compulsory proceedings are authorized."
In Sweet v. Rechel, Cherokee Nation v. Kansas Railway Co.,
and Kohl v. United States, all cited supra, the property to
which the constitutional protection was applied was property
in private use. Their doctrine applies as well to private
property devoted to a public use. There is no difference
whatever in principle arising from the difference in the uses.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

A railroad right of way is a very substantial thing. It is more
than a mere right of passage. It is more than an easement.
We discussed its character in New Mexico v. United States
Trust Co., 172 U. S. 171. We there said (p. 183) that if a railroad's right of way was an easement it was "one having the
attribtites of the fee, perpetuity and exclusive use and possession; also the remedies of the fee, and, like it corporeal, not
incorporeal, property." And we drew support for this from
a New Jersey case, in which State the rights of way in the
case at bar are situated. We quoted N. Y., Susquehanna &
Western Railroad v. Trimmer, 53 N. J. L. 1, 3, as follows:
"'Unlike the use of a private way-that is, discontinuousthe use of land condemned by a railroad company is perpetual
and continuous.' " And it is held in Pennsylvania " that a
railway company is a purchaser, in consideration of public
accommodation and convenience, of the exclusive possession
of the ground paid for to the proprietors of it." Philadelphia
& Reading Railroad Co. v. Hummell, 44 Pa. St. 375. It is "a
fee in the surface and so much beneath as may be necessary
for support.

.

.

.

But whatever it may be called, it is,

in substance, an interest in the land, special and exclusive
in its nature." Pennsylvania Schuylkill Valley R. R. Co. v.
Reading Paper Mills, 149 Pa. St. 18; Philadelphiav. Ward,
174 Pa. St. 45; Railway v. Peet, 152 Pa. St. 488.
A railroad's right of way has, therefore, the substantiality
of the fee, and it is private property even to the public in all
else but an interest and benefit in its uses. It cannot be invaded without guilt of trespass. It cannot be appropriated
in whole or part except upon the payment of compensation.
In other words, it is entitled to the protection of the Constitution, and in the precise manner in which protection is given.
It can only be taken by the exercise of the powers of eminent domain, and a condition precedent to the exercise of such
power is, we said, in Sweet v. Rechel, that the statute conferring it make provision for reasonable compensation to the
owner of the property taken. This condition is expressed

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 571
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with even more emphasis in Cherok& Nation v. Southern
Kansas Ry. Co., supra.
A few more words may be necessary to avoid all possible misunderstanding of the purpose for which we have cited those
cases and Kohl v. United States. We have cited them, not as
tests of the validity of the act of 1866, but as tests of its
meaning, supporting the authority of the Pensacola case and
Ann Arbor case. We have no occasion to consider the validity of the act of 1866 as an attempt to grant the power of
eminent domain. We decide the act to be an exercise by
Congress of its power to withdraw from state interference interstate commerce by telegraph. As such, of course, the act
is an efficient and constitutional enactment.
Certain cases decided at circuit are cited for our consideration, and we will close this branch of our discussion by a brief
review of them.
In Postal Telegraph Cable Co. of Idaho v. Oregon Short Line
Railroad Company, 104 Fed. Rep. 623, and Postal Telegraph
Cable Company v. Oregon Short Line R. R. Co., 114 Fed. Rep.
787, there were views expressed favorable to the contentions
made in the case at bar by the Telegraph Company, but the
judgments in both cases were ultimately rested upon the local
statutes-Idaho and Montana-which granted the right of
eminent domain to telegraph companies. We may also observe that the first case went to the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the Ninth Circuit. That court sustained the judgment of
the Circuit Court upon the statute of Idaho and upon general
legal principles. It did not refer to the act of 1866. 111
Fed. Rep. 842.
In Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Southern Railway Co., 89
Fed. Rep. 190, and Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Cleveland,
C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 94 Fed. Rep. 234, the act of 1866 was
more directly passed on. Both cases were proceedings in
eminent domain-one brought in the courts of North Carolina
and removed to the Circuit Court of the United States; the
other brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

Northern District of Ohio. In passing on the sufficiency of the
petition in the first case, Judge Simonton said that the right of
petitioner to construct its lines along the right of way of post
roads of the United States was given under the act of Congress of
1866, but, he observed, "the mode or method of exercising the
right conferred was fixed by the laws of the several States, and
it was exclusive in its character in ascertaining the amount of
compensation to be allowed." The right of the Telegraph
Company was, therefore, considered and adjudged under the
North Carolina statutes.
In the second case a motion was made to dismiss on the
ground that the power of eminent domain was not conferred
by any law of the United States or the State of Ohio. The
motion was sustained. District Judge Ricks said: "The act
of July 24, 1866, made no provision for compensation or payment for property to be taken, hence the procedure cannot be
sustained by virtue of that act." He cited the Pensacola
case, supra.
The Western Union Telegraph Company v. Ann Arbor R. R.
Co., 33 C. C. A. 113, and St. Paul M. & M. Ry. Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 497, were respectively decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth
Circuit and the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit. It is difficult to reconcile them. In one it was decided,
following the authority of the Pensacola case, that the Telegraph Company could not occupy the line of the defendant's
railroad without its consent or that of some predecessor in
title. This was wanting. In the other, it was conceded that
the right of entry upon private property was not conferred
by the act of 1866, without the owner's consent, yet held
that, as consent had been given, no reason could be perceived why a court of equity should compel a removal of
the Telegraph Company's lines from the railway's right of
way, "especially where it appears that no express agreement
was made that they should be removed when its lines were
erected."

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al.513
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

2. It is contended by the Telegraph Company that the charters under which the several railway companies constituting
the system of the Railroad Company were organized expressly created them "public highways," and that in the
acquisition of land for their purposes they were public agents,
"and the land was taken by the Government, and in the eye
of the law as completely subject to public uses as though it
had been taken by the State itself "-that is to say, if we understand the argument, have become highways in the full
sense of that word. And counsel further say the difference
between them and ordinary highways "is not a legal difference, but is the difference of the kind of use to which the
highway is subject-in the one case, wheel vehicles drawn by
horses; in the other, to steam vehicles drawn by 16comotives
along and upon iron rails." They are subject, therefore, it is
urged, as ordinary highways and streets of a city are subject,
to the control of Congress by virtue of its power over interstate commerce.
Counsel in advancing the argument exhibit a consciousness
of taking an extreme position. It would seem, certainly if
considered with other parts of their argument, to make a railroad right of way public property. To that extreme we cannot go, for the reasons which we have already indicated. The
right of way of a railroad is property devoted to a public
use, and has often been called a highway, and as such is subject, to a certain extent, to state and Federal control, and for
this many cases may be cited. But it has always been recognized, as we have pointed out, that a railroad right of way is
so far private property as to be entitled to that provision of
the Constitution which forbids its taking, except under the
power of eminent domain and upon payment of compensation. The right of way of a,railroad was recognized as private property in the Pensacola case, and we are brought back
to the main question-the interpretation of the act of July,
1866, and upon that we have sufficiently dilated.
It follows from these views that the act of 1866 does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

grant the right to telegraph companies to enter upon and
occupy the rights of way of railroad companies, except with
the consent of the latter, or grant the power of eminent domain. Nor does the statute of New Jersey make those rights
of way public property so as to subject them to such occupation under the provisions of the act of 1866.
It is admitted that the statutes of New Jersey do not confer the right of eminent domain upon the Telegraph Company.
3. In view of our conclusion, it is not necessary to consider
the question whether, if the power of eminent domain were
granted by the act of 1866, it would be within the competency of a court of equity to ascertain compensation, or that
compensation might be determined at law. That question
was pertinent in Kohl et al v. United States, 91 U. S. 367. It
is not pertinent in this case. The acts of Congress passed on
in Kohl et al v. United States, as we have seen, provided for
the appropriation of a site for a public building by purchase
or by condemnation. By the act of 1866 power of condemnation is not given, and, of course, methods of procedure are not
involved in its construction.
It is equally unnecessary to consider the questions which
might arise if the State of New Jersey gave the right of eminent domain to the Telegraph Company. It is conceded by
counsel that such right does not exist, and it happens that under the policy of New Jersey the right of way of the Railroad
Company enjoys in that State immunity from compulsory
proceedings instituted by the Telegraph Company. But this
has no bearing on the act of 1866, nor does it make that act,
as construed by us, a grant to railroads of greater power over
commercial intercourse by telegraph than the States have.
Indeed, we think, a comparison between the States and railroads in that regard is misleading and overlooks the essential
difference between restraints on the legislative power of the
States and the rights of property.
On account of those restraints, it may be, and finding no

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 575
195 U. S.

HA.RLAx,

J., dissenting.

impediment in the rights of property, interstate commerce,
by telegraph, has marched to a splendid development, although
in the acquisition of the means for its exercise it has relied on
the consent of the owner of private property, or the power of
eminent domain conferred by the States. We cannot but feel,
therefore, that there is something inadequate in the argument
which is based on the apprehension that the act of July 24,
1866, construed, as we construe it, gives a sinister power to
railroad companies. It gives no power to those companies
but that which appertains to the ownership of their property.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE. BREWER concurred.
MR. JusTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

In view of the importance of these cases I do not feel that
any dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court should
be expressed, unless the grounds of such dissent be fully disclosed.
The controlling question before the court is, whether the
Western Union Telegraph Company is entitled, in virtue of
any existing acts of Congress, to keep and maintain its telegraph lines upon the right of way of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, assuming that the ordinary travel on that
road will not be thereby interfered with.
Congress, having power to establish post offices and post
roads, has declared all railroads in operation within the limits
of the United States to be Post Roads and Post Routes. 5
Stat. 271, 283, c. 172; 10 Stat. 249, 255, c. 146; Rev. Stat.
§ 3964; 23 Stat. 3, c. 9..
There was, for many years, as all know, and therefore as the
court may judicially know, a widespread belief that the Government and the people of the country were at great disadvantage in matters of business and intercourse as involved
For concurring opinion of Ihli JusTcIC

BREWER, see p. 593, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

in the use of the telegraph. The conviction was strong and
universal that the control of the post roads of the country
was being exerted by great railroad corporations in such way
as to subserve private and corporate interests at the expense
of the United States and without any regard for the convenience of the general public. As a remedy for those evils
Congress passed the act of July 24, 1866, entitled "An act to
aid in the construction of telegraph lines, and to secure to the
Government the use of the same for postal, military and other
purposes." 14 Stat. 221, c. 230. By that act Congress conferred upon any telegraph company organized under the laws
of any State "the right to construct, maintain and operate
lines of telegraph," not only through and over the public
domain and over, under or across the navigable streams or
waters of the United States, but "over and along any of the
military or post roads of the United States." By the same act
it is declared that on the lines of such companies telegraphic
communications between the several departments of the
Government should be at rates to be annually fixed by the
Postmaster General, and have priority over all other business.
§2. To the exercise of the right thus given, Congress annexed several conditions, but the only one pertinent to the
present discussion is the condition that the telegraph lines
erected by any company accepting the provisions of the act
should be so constructed and maintained as not to obstruct the
navigation of the navigable streams and waters of the United
States or "interfere with the ordinary travel on such military
or post roads."
The object of the act, this court has said, all its members
concurring, "was not only to promote and secure the interests
of the Government, but to obtain, for the benefit of the people
of the entire country, every advantage, in the matter of communication by telegraph, which might come from competition
between corporations of different States;" that "it was very
far from the intention of Congress, by any legislation, to so
exert its power as to enable one telegraph corporation, Federal

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 577
195 U. S.

or state,

HAInLAN,

.

.

.

J., dissenting.

to acquire exclusive right, over any post

road;" and that "no railroad company, operating a post road
of the United States, over which interstate commerce is carried
on, can, consistently with the act of July 24, 1866, bind itself,
by agreement, to exclude from its roadway any telegraph
company, incorporated under the laws of a State, which accepts the provisions of that act, and desires to use such roadway for its line in such manner as will not interfere with the
ordinary travel thereon." United States v. Union Pacific Railway Company & Western Union Telegraph Company, 160 U. S.
1, 44, 49. Yet, by its present construction of the act of 1866
the court-if we do not misapprehend its opinion-holds that
the right which that act gives to construct, maintain and
operate a telegraph line upon a pbst road cannot, in virtue of
that act, or under any existing legislation, be exercised by the
Western Union Telegraph Company, against the -will of the.
railroad company operating such road; and this, notwithstanding it be absolutely clear that the occupancy of the post
road by the telegraph lines of the particular company proposing or desiring to erect them would not, in the slightest
degree, interfere with the ordinary travel on such road. It is
now held, in effect, that, so far as that act is concerned, and
despite its explicit provisions, even the Government cannot,
except with the assent of the Railroad Company, enjoy the
advantages sought to be secured by its passage. I think it
was intended by the act of 1866, in the interest of the postal
service and of interstate trade and intercourse, to throw open
all the post roads of the country to the use of telegraph companies accepting its provisions, subject to the condition that
such use should not interfere with ordinary travel on the post
.roads so occupied. And that intention is in harmony with
the doctrine often announced by this court, that "a railroad'
is a public highway, established primarily for the convenience
of the people, and to subserve public ends, and, therefore, subject to governmental control." Cherokee Nation v. Southern
Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S.641, 657; Olcott v,Supervisors, 16
voL. oxCv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARL&N, J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

Wall. 678, 694; United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171
U. S. 505; Wisconsin &c. R. R.Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
But it is suggested that the Telegraph Company has not been
expressly invested with the power of eminent domain. Nevertheless, it has been given, by express words, the right to construct, maintain and operate its lines on any post road of the
United States; and as it is not contended that Congress has
exceeded its power in granting that right the question is
whether the right so given can be made effective by any mode
of procedure known to our jurisprudence. I have always supposed it to be competent for a court of the United States,
having general jurisdiction of suits at law and in equity, in
some efficient mode, by some process or form of procedure, to
enforce and protect any right constitutionally conferred by the
legislative department. The principle is illustrated in Osborne
v. Missouri Pacific Railway Company, 147 U. S. 248, which
was an action to enjoin the construction of a track along a
public street, because of irreparable damage to be thereby inflicted on the plaintiff. This court, following the decision of
Judge Brewer, now of this court, in McElroy v. Kansas City,
21 Fed. Rep. 257, said (p. 249): "If the defendant had an
ultimate right to do the act sought to be restrained, but only
upon some condition precedent, and compliance with the condition was within the power of the defendant, the injunction
would almost universally be granted until the condition was
complied with; but if the means of complying with the condition were not at defendant's command, then the court would
adjust its order so as to give complainants substantial benefit
of the condition, while not restraining defendant from the exercise of his ultimate rights. Inasmuch as, while the statutes of
Missouri provided for the assessment of damages resulting from
the taking of property for public use, there existed no provision to attain that result where the property was merely
damaged, an injunction was granted, with leave to the defendant to apply for the appointment of a board of commissioners
to ascertain and report the damages which complainant would

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 5t9
195 U. S.

HIAnLA,

J., dissenting.

sustain, upon payment of which the injunction would be
vacated." This principle was recognized in the recent case
of New York City v. Pine, 185 U. S. 93.
It is said by counsel that the right given by the act of
1866 is necessarily subject to the condition prescribed by
the constitutional provision that private property shall
not be taken for public use without just compensation, and
that the property interest of the Railroad Company in its
right of way cannot be permanently taken from it for public purposes, against its will, without making such compensation.
Upon the subject of compensation the court reproduces from
the opinion in Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 399, this detached
sentence: "It is a condition precedent to the exercise of such
power [eminent domain] that the statute make provision for
reasonable compensation to the owner." But the court does
not apply any such rule to the present case and holds that the
act of 1866 is invalid as not making provision for compensation.
Besides, the above sentence taken in connection with the one
immediately preceding it shows clearly that what was said had
reference to the taking of private property for public use without
provision being made in the statute for compensation. The
entire paragraph from which the above sentence was taken
reads: "When, however, the legislature provides for the actual
taking and appropriation of private property for public uses,
its authority to enact such a regulation rests upon its right of
eminent domain-a right vital to the existence and safety of
the Government. But it is a condition precedent to the exercise of such power that the statute make provision for reasonable compensation to the owner." What was said in Sweet v.
Rechel plainly had no reference to property of a public or quasipublic nature. The same observations may be made in reference to the quotation made from Cherokee Nation v. Southern
Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S. 641. What was said in that case
had also reference to the taking of private property. If the
court were now of opinion that the act of 1866 was invalid as

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

not making provision for compensation, then the object of citing
Sweet v. Rechel and Cherokee Nation v. Kansas Railway would
be both manifest and appropriate. But the court does not
hold that the act of 1866 is objectionable on any such ground.
On the contrary, it holds a railroad right of way to be private
property, and yet, despite its citation of the above cases,
recognizes the validity of the act, although it makes no provision for compensation to the owner. It may not be appropriate for me to say that I adhere to what was said in Sweet v.
Rechel and Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co., the
opinions in both of which cases were written by myself, speaking
for the court. Whether a railroad right of way over a post
road of the United States-such road being a public highway
established primarily for the public convenience and subject
to governmental control-is private property within the rule
that a statute authorizing private property to be taken for
public use must make provision for compensation, is a question not wholly free from doubt, and it need not be here discussed; for, the court does not hold that the act of 1866 is
subject to that objection.
But let it be granted, for the purposes of this case, that a
railroad company has such a property interest in its right of
way that it is entitled to compensation, if such right of way
be appropriated to the use of a telegraph company, accepting
the act of 1866; still, the question remains in what way or by
what mode may such compensation be legally ascertained?
May it not be ascertained by a court of general jurisdiction,
when all parties in interest are regularly being brought in?
Here the Telegraph Company comes into the Circuit Court of
the United States and seeks, in virtue of the act of Congress,
to enforce the right expressly granted to it of occupying the
post road in question with its lines. It expresses its readiness
to make such compensation to the Railroad Company as the
law requires, and informs the court that it has instituted an
action at law to ascertain the amount of such compensation.
The bill alleges:

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 581
195 U. S.

HARLAN, J., dissenting.

"Your orator says further that it is diligently prosecuting
said action on the law side of this court for the ascertainment
of the amount of compensation to the said railway companies
defendant herein, for the right to the use of said railroads to
maintain and operate its telegraph line along and over the
lines of said railways as prescribed in said act of Congress of
July 24, 1866; and that it will continue to prosecute the same
to a final determination as rapidly as the business in said
court will permit the said cause to he heard and determined
and without any unnecessary delay.
"Your orator prays that this court ascertain, order, adjudge and decree the amount of compensation to be paid by
your orator to the defendants, as their rights may severally
appear, for the construction, maintenance and operation of
your orator's telegraph lines over and along the right of way
of the defendants' said railroads, under the terms, provisions
and restrictions of said acts of Congress hereinbefore mentioned, or, if this court shall order and determine that the
amount of such compensation to the defendants shall be such
amount as shall be determined or adjudged in the said action
at law, that upon due payment of such compensation by your
orator to the defendants this court will order, adjudge and
decree that your orator is entitled to a perpetual injunction
against the defendants herein and each of them, restraining
them and each of them from in any manner inteifering with
the location, construction, maintenance and operation of your
orator's said lines of telegraph upon the roadway or right of
way of the said defendants, under and subject to the provisions
and restrictions of the said act of Congress of July 24, 1866,
and meanwhile and until the final decree of this court that a
temporary injunction be issued against the defendants, prohibiting and restraining them and each of them from in any
manner interfering with the use and operation of the telegraph
lines of your orator upon the said roadway and right of way of
the defendants pending the determination of the said action
at law, or until the further order of this court in the premises.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
H4xRiN, J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

And for such other and further relief as the case may require
and to your honors may seem just."
Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, was an application filed
in pursuance of acts of Congress authorizing and directing the
Secretary of the Treasury to purchase a site for a public
building. A site was selected, but the Secretary and private
owners could not agree as to price, and the acts of Congress did
not direct the particular mode by which the land should be
condemned and the compensation to be made by the Government ascertained. The Secretary of the Treasury, in order to
carry out the will of Congress, did not institute formal proceedings of condemnation as one of the acts, under which he proceeded, authorized him to do. But he instituted a suit in a
Circuit Court of the United States to appropriate a certain
parcel of land for the proposed building. It was objected that
the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction, but that objection
was overruled. It was contended in argument that while the
United States had the right of eminent domain, Congress had
not given to the Circuit Court jurisdiction of a proceeding for
the condemnation of property brought by the United States in
the assertion or enforcement of that right; and that the act of
Congress meant that the land for the proposed public building
was to be obtained under the authority of the state government in the exercise of its right of eminent domain. It was
further contended that if the proceeding was properly instituted in the Circuit Court, then the act of Congress required
that it should conform to the provisions of the state law in a
like proceeding in the state court. This court said (p. 375):
"Doubtless Congress might have provided the mode of taking
the land, and determining the compensation to be made, which
would have been exclusive of all other modes. They might
have prescribed in what tribunal or by what agents the taking
and the ascertainment of the just compensation should be
accomplished. The mode might have been by a commission,
or it might have been referred expressly to the Circuit Court;
but this, we think, was not necessary. The investment of the

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 583
HMRt-mN, J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

Secretary of the Treasury with power to obtain the land by condemnation, without prescribing the mode of exercising the
power, gave him also the power to obtain it by any means that
were competent to adjudge a condemnation (p. 376).
It is quite immaterial that Congress has not enacted that the
compensation shall be ascertained in a judicial proceeding.
That ascertainment is in its nature at least quasi-judicial.
Certainly no other mode than a judicial trial has been provided. . . . But there is no special provision for ascertaining the just compensation to be made for land taken. That is left
to the ordinary processes of the law; and hence, as the Government is a suitor for the property under a claim of legal right to
take it, there appears to be no reason for holding that the
proper Circuit Court has not jurisdiction of the suit, under the
general grant of jurisdiction made by the act of 1789."
In United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, which was a proceeding to condemn property for the use of the United States,
this court, referring to a certain proposition advanced by
counsel, said (pp. 518, 519): "There is, in this position, an
assumption that the ascertainment of the amount of compensation to be made is an essential element of the power of
appropriation; but such is not the case. The power to take
private property for public uses, generally termed the right of
eminent domain, belongs to every independent government.
It is an incident of sovereignty, and, as said in Boom Company
v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 106, requires no constitutional recognition. The provision found in the Fifth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution, and in the constitutions of the several
States, for just compensation for the property taken, is merely
a limitation upon the use of the power. It is no part of the
power itself, but a condition upon which the power may be
exercised.

.

.

.

But there is no reason why the com-

pensation to. bie made may not be ascertained by any appropriate tribunal capable of estimating the value of the property.
There is nothing in the nature of the matter to be determined
which calls for the establihment of any special Iribunal by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
IHLRLAN,

J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

appropriating power. The proceeding for the ascertainment
of the value of the property and consequent compensation to
be made, is merely an inquisition to establish a particularfact
as a preliminary to the actual taking; and it may be prosecuted
before commissioners or special boards or the courts, with or
without the intervention of a jury, as the legislative power
may designate. All that is required is that it shall be conducted
in some fair and just manner, with opportunity to the owners
of the property to present evidence as to its value, and to be
heard thereon."
The vital object of the present suit was to secure the recognition and enforcement of the right of the Telegraph Company,
under the act of 1866, to keep and maintain its lines upon the
railroad's right of way. If it had such right-the authority
to confer the right is, we repeat, not disputed-then this suit
in equity was an appropriate mode by which the right could be
adequately protected and compensation secured to the railroad
company. To assert the right and to ask that the amount of
compensation shall be ascertained made the proceeding a suit
or controversy within the meaning of the judiciary acts, and
made the case one-in legal effect-for condemnation. I perceive no reason why the court, in advance of a final decree
recognizing and enforcing that right, could not have instituted,
as it was asked to do, an inquiry in respect of the compensation
which the Railroad Company was entitled to receive for the
proposed use of its right of way, and have made the payment
of such compensation a condition precedent to the exercise by
the Telegraph Company of the right given by the act of 1866.
Having all the parties interested before it, could not the court
have directed a jury to be impanelled to inquire, under the
direction of the court, as to the amount of compensation to be
paid to the Railroad Company? Could it have done any more
under regular proceedings of condemnation? Instead of adopting that course, the Circuit Court proceeded upon the ground
that even if the use of the defendant's road by the Telegraph
Company would not interfere wit; ordinary travel on and

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 585
195 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

over it, it was compelled by the former decisions of this court
to hold that neither in virtue of the act of 1866, nor of any
other exising Federal statute, could the Telegraph Company
occupy the railroad's right of way without the consent of the
Railroad Company.
The cases in this court which, it is supposed, adopted this
view of the act of 1866 are PensacolaTel. Co. v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1, and Western Union Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor
R. R. Co., 178 U. S. 239, 243. But the utmost ingenuity is
inadequate to show that the present question was involved in
either of those cases, or that the decision in either case depended in the slightest degree on its solution.
It appears from the Pensacola case that the Western Union
Telegraph Company had the right to place and operate its lines
upon the right of way of a certain railroad company between
points in Alabama and points in Florida. There was no controversy in that case between the railroad company and the
telegraph company as to the right of the latter to have its lines
on the railroad right of way. The railroad company, as the
report of the case shows, had consented to the occupancy of its
right of way by the lines of the Telegraph Company, and that
fact was not disputed. The railroad company was not even
a party to the suit. It had no quarrel with the telegraph
company. What need, then, had the court to consider the
rights of the Western Union Telegraph Company, under the act
of 1866, when it was conceded that that company had the
consent of the railroad company to occupy its right of way?
This view of the case was distinctly announced by this court
when it said in the Pensacola case that "the present case is
sat sfied, if we find that Congress has power, by appropriate
legislation, to prevent the States from placing obstructions in
the way of its [the telegraph's] usefulness." The sole question
in the case was as to the validity of a Florida statute, under
which a Florida telegraph company was given exclusive telegraphic rights over the route to be occupied by the Western
Union Telegraph Company with the consent of the railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

company; and the charter of the Florida company authorized
it to locate and construct its lines within certain named counties
of Florida "along and upon any public road or highway, or
across any water, or upon any railroad or private property for
which permission shall have first been obtained from the proprietors thereof." This court held that the attempt of the
State to exercise exclusive control over telegraphic communications between it and other States was in conflict with the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States, and
that the Florida statute was void, so far as it assumed to grant
exclusive privileges to a particular telegraph company.
Referring to the act of 1866 the court said (p. 11): "It substantially declares, in the interest of commerce and the convenient transmission of intelligence from place to place by the
Government of the United States and its citizens, that the
erection of telegraph lines shall, so far as state interference is
concerned, be free to all who will submit to the conditions imposed by Congress, and that corporations organized under the
laws of one State for constructing and operating telegraph
lines shall not be excluded by another from prosecuting their
business within its jurisdiction, if they accept the terms proposed

by the National Government for 1his national privilege. To this
extent, certainly, the statute is a legitimate regulation of
commercial intercourse among the States, and is appropriate
legislation to carry into execution the powers of Congress over
the postal service. It gives no foreign corporation the right
to enter upon private property without the consent of the
owner and erect the necessary structures for its business; but
it does provide that, whenever the consent of the owner is obtained, no state legislation shall prevent the occupation of
post roads for telegraph purposes by such corporations as are
willing to avail themselves of its privileges." What was
meant by the words, "but it [the act] does provide that, whenever the consent of the owner is obtained," I cannot understand. The act of 1866 does not contain any such provision
nor anything like it. Not a single word is to be found in it

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. 7. PENN. R. R. et al. 587
195 U. S.

HArLAN,

J., dissenting..

that refers to the consent of the owner of the property to be
taken. The court proceeds: "It is insisted, however, that the
statute extends only to such military and post roads as are
upon the public domain; but this, we think, is not so. The
language is, 'Through and over any portion of the public domain of the United States, over and along any of the military
or post roads of the United States, which have been or may
hereafter be declared such by act of Congress, and over, under
or across the navigable streams or waters of the United States.'
There is nothing to indicate an intention of limiting the effect
of the words employed, and they are, therefore, to be given
their natural and ordinary signification. Read in this way,
the grant evidently extends to the public domain, the military
and post roads, and the navigable waters of the United States.
These are all within the dominion of the National Government
to the extent of the national powers, and are, therefore, subject
to legitimate Congressional regulation. No question arises as
to the authority of Congress to provide for the appropriation
of private property to the uses of the telegraph, for no such
attempt has been made. The use of public property alone is
granted. If private property is required, it must, so far as the
present legislation is concerned, be obtained by private arrangement with its owner. No compulsory proceedings are
authorized. State sovereignty under the Constitution is not
interfered with. Only national privileges are granted."
This language, it seems to me, has not been correctly interpreted. Undue stress has been laid upon the words "private
property without the consent of the owner," and the words
"private property

.

.

.

obtained by private arrangement

with its owner." They have been so interpreted as to make
the court decide a question not before it, not necessary to the'
decision, not involved in the isuses made, and never suggested
by counsel. The briefs of counsel in that case show that no
such question was in their minds; for they as well as the court
knew, from the record before them, and as we may know from
an examination of that record, that the Western Union Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

pany was entitled, so far as the consent of the railroad company was concerned, to maintain its lines on the railroad right
of way. Upon the above quoted words the contention is based
that the court intended to decide that no railroad right of way
could, in virtue of the act of 1866, be occupied by any telegraph
company without the consent of the railroad company first
obtained. I cannot believe that any such question was intended to be decided. As already shown, the court expressly
said that the only question to be decided was whether Congress
had power to prevent a State from obstructing interstate telegraphic communications, by granting exclusive privileges to
a particular telegraph company of its own creation. It is a
mistake to say that the court declared that the sole purpose of
the act of 1866 was to prevent state monopolies, or that the
act was merely an exercise of national power to forbid state
interference with telegraphic communications. It did say
that the case then before the court would be satisfied if the
question as to state interference was decided, that is, that the
case involved no other question. Besides, the whole context
of the opinion in the Pensacola case shows that the court did
not include railroad property employed in commerce when it
used the above quoted words. It was argued in that case that
the act of 1866 had reference only to the "public domain,"
that is, to the public lands owned by the United States. This
view was distinctly rejected, and post roads were placed by the
court, so far as the privileges granted by the act were concerned, on the same plane as the public domain, so that not
even a State could interfere with the national privilege granted
by Congress, if the telegraph company accepted the terms of
the act. The court said that any telegraph company, accepting the provisions of the act, could put its lines on any
post road, if ordinary travel thereon was not interfered with,
and that not even the State could stand in the way. It then
added, as if out of abundant caution, and to show that Congress had no purpose to interfere with the rights of private
owners, that no attempt was made by Congress to provide for

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 589
195 U. S.

HARLAw, J.,

dissenting..

the appropriation of private property, and that "the use of
public property alone is granted." That meant that the act
had not granted any right to telegraph companies to occupy
private property with telegraph lines. Having said that the
act granted the use of post roads for telegraphic purposes;
that it embraced the use of such roads equally with the public
domain; and that "the use of public property alone is granted,"
it is inconceivable that the court employed in the same connection the words "private property," as embracing post roads,
or the use of such roads. To relieve the minds of those who
apprehended danger arising from the act of 1866 to state
sovereignty and to rights that were strictly private, the court
took care to say that neither state sovereignty nor private
rights were interfered with; that only national privileges were
granted; but that, in respect of the use of the public domain
and military and post roads, Congress had power to pass the
act of 1866, and in dealing with the use of post roads, by
telegraph companies, it dealt with public property.
When the court held in the Pensacola case that telegraphic
communications between the States could be regulated by
Congress under its power to regulate commerce, and that the
statute of Florida, which assumed to give to a Florida telegraph company an exclusive right in respect of telegraphic
communications over certain territory in that State, was inconsistent with the act of 1866, that was an end of that case,
and nothing remained to be done, except to dismiss the suit.
The court itself so declared. Nothing more was in issue between the parties. The case involved, I confidently insist,
no question as to the previous assent of the railroad company
being a condition of the exercise by the Western Union Telegraph Company, of the rights given by the act of 1866.
Nor is the case of Western Union Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R.
Co., 178 U. S. 239, 243, 244, an authority for the action of the
Circuit Court. That was a case in which the only relief sought
was the specific performance of a contract under which a telegraph company claimed the right to remain in the occupancy

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

of the right of way of a railroad company. The court pertinently observed in that case that it was not claimed that" the
telegraph company had any right under the statute, and independently of the contract, to maintain and operate this
telegraph line over the railroad company's property." It was,
however, claimed that as the telegraph company was in the
discharge of public duties, the Circuit Court "should have so
framed its decree as to preserve the occupancy of the telegraph
company, subject to making compensation to the railroad
company, the value of the alleged easement, to be ascertained
by the court." But that view was rejected because the bill
"was not framed in that aspect," and so as to protect the
occupancy of the telegraph company subject to the condition
of its making compensation, and the court also said that the
relief asked could not be given under the prayer for general
relief, because not "agreeable to the case made by the bill."
Now, the present bill has been framed so that the court can
protect the right given to the Telegraph Company by the act
of 1866 to have its wires and poles on the company's right of
way, upon its being ascertained that such use will not interfere with the ordinary travel on the railroad, just compensation being made for that use, and the amount of compensation
to be ascertained by the court in some appropriate way.
In my judgment, nothing involved or in judgment in the
Pensacola and Ann Arbor cases requires the affirmance of the
decree of the Circuit Court.
The affirmance of that decree of the Circuit Court will
mean that the efforts of Congress, by the act of 1866, to obtain for the people of the country the advantages accruing
from competition between corporations of the different States
in the matter of telegraphic communications, and also to promote and secure the interests of the Government as involved
in the conduct of its postal and military business, will prove
of but little value. Indeed, as construed, it might have been
better for the country if the act of 1866 had not been passed,
and the States left free to establish such regulations in refer-

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. r.. PENN. R. R. et al. 591
195 U. S.

HAAN,

J., dissenting.

ence to telegraphic communications, within and over its territory, as would be appropriate and valid in the absence of.
Congressional legislation on the subject. As the matter now
stands, the whole subject is practically committed to the
railroad companies. The court says that the act of 1866 is
an efficient enactment for the purpose of preventing state
interference with interstate telegraphic communications. As
now construed, it would seem to be most efficient in tying the
hands of the States and leaving railroad companies operating
post roads, so far as existing legislation is concerned, absolute masters of interstate communication by telegraph.
In the Pensacola case it was decided, and I think rightly,
that in respect at least, of interstate telegraphic communications, a State could not give exclusive privileges to a particular telegraph company. But, as just stated, by the necessary
operation of the judgment now rendered a railroad company,
operating a post road, can, in effect or practically, confer exclusive privileges upon a particular telegraph company, in
respect of its right of way, by simply withholding its consent for a second telegraph company to occupy any part of
such right of way with its wires and poles. If the Government should be of opinion that the public business imperatively required another telegraph line upon the post road now
occupied by the Pennsylvania Railroad, that company need
only object to other telegraph lines being placed upon its
right of way, and that will be the end of the matter, so far
as the act of 1866, as now construed, is concerned. If the
Government, and a telegraph company fully equipped, should
jointly represent to the railroad company that an additional
company can be admitted to its right of way without obstructing the ordinary travel on that road, the company need
only reply that no other telegraph company than the one now
there can occupy its right of way, and that will be the end of
the matter, so far as the act of 1866, as now construed, is concerned. All this is now made possible, notwithstanding the
decision of this court in United States v. Union Pacific Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

195 U. S.

way, 160 U. S. 1, above cited. In that case we propounded
this question, p. 44: "Can it be said that after the passage of
the act of 1866, and while it was in force, a railway company,
operating a post road of the United States, could, by any form
of agreement, exclude from its roadway a telegraph company
which had accepted the provisions of that act?" We said
that this question could be answered only in one way,
"namely, that every railroad company operating a post road
in the United States, over which commerce among the States
is carried on, was inhibited, after the act of July 24, 1866,
took effect, from making any agreement inconsistent with its
provisions or that tended to defeat its operations." The
court added that it was very far from the intention of Congress by any legislation to so exert its power as to enable one
telegraph corporation, Federal or state, to acquire exclusive
rights over any post road. But now, a railroad corporation
operating a post road, and wishing its right of way occupied
only by a single company, with which it may have a special
business arrangement, for its own purposes, need not make
even a secret agreement granting exclusive privileges to that
company. It need only keep silence and withhold its assent
to the occupancy of its right of way by another company, and
in that way give exclusive privileges to the company with
which it has a special arrangement; it may be to one organized wholly in the interest of the railroad company. In the
Pensacola case it was said that one of the objects of the act
of 1866 was to prevent state monopolies in telegraphic communication, and that the privilege granted by that act was a
national privilege. Now, although state monopolies cannot
exist, railroad monopolies in telegraphic communications may
exist; and the national privilege granted by the act of 1866
is left at the mercy of railroad companies operating the post
roads of the United States.
Practically, the railroad corporations operating post roads
-looking to their own interests and perhaps caring little for
the general welfare-are recognized as now having more power

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. et al. 593
195 U. S.

BREWER, J.,

concurring.

than a State. I cannot assent to any interpretation of the
act of 1866 from which such a result can follow. No such
result is, in my opinion, consistent either with the words of
the act or with the objects which Congress, as this court has
said, intended to accomplish by its passage. The act, reasonably interpreted, was, I think, intended to give a telegraph
company accepting its provisions the absolute right to put its
wires and poles upon any post road-a public highway established primarily for the public convenience-if the ordinary
travel on such road was not thereby interfered with.
For these reasons, I am constrained to dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER, concurring.

I concur in the judgments in these cases but do so distinctly
on the ground that the questions have been settled in prior
cases. If the matter was res integra the views expressed by
Mr. Justice Harlan would be very persuasive. Pens&acola
Telegraph Company v. Western Union Telegraph Company, 96
U. S.1, and Western Union Telegraph Company v. Ann Arbor
Railroad Company, 178 U. S. 239, seem to me controlling. In
the first of these cases, the scope of the power and authority
granted by the act of 1866 was distinctly presented. It was
within the proper limits of inquiry, and the opinion of the
court shows that it was fully considered. The declarations in
that opinion are clear and precise, and cannot be considered
in any just sense obiter dicta. The decision was announced in
1877, and was reaffirmed in 1890 in the Ann Arbor case. If
the court erred in its construction of the act, Congress has
had twenty-seven years in which to correct the mistake. Its
omission to take any action must be considered as an acquiescence on its part in that construction. And I am of the
opinion that when this court has construed a statite of Congress, and that construction has remained for more than a
VOL. cxcv-38

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for petitioner.

195 U. S.

quarter of a century, neither changed by any judicial decisions
or set aside by any Congressional legislatiofi, it ought not to
be disturbed except for the most cogent reasons.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 90. Argued October 19, 20, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.
Wester
Union Tel. Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. et al, ante, p. 540
followed to effect that the act of July 24, 1866, 14 Stat. 221, does not
confer any right of eminent domain on telegraph companies and that a
railroad company's right of way is not a public highway within the meaning of that act.
Eminent domain cannot be delegated, and the lessee of a corporation cannot
exercise the power of condemnation conferred by legislature on the lessor.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr. Rush Taggart and Mr. Henry D.
Estabrook for plaintiff in error as to the special points involved
in No. 90.'
The Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company was authorized
by its charter to appropriate to its use, within specified limitations, property of a specific character, to wit, the roads, highways, streets and waters of the State of Pennsylvania. Defendant's railroad is not only a highway of the State in its
very nature, but by its charter and the constitution of Pennsylvania is expressly declared to be a highway. Hence, it is
subject to the appropriation of the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company, within the limitations of the right granted.
§ 1, art. 17; §§ 3, 12, art. 16, constitution Pennsylvania;
el. 1, §33, and cl. 2, ch. 6, act of Pennsylvania legislature,
April 29, 1874; Trunnick v. Smith, 63 Pa. St. 18.
1For abstract of argument on other questions involved in this case, see
ante, p. 547.

