UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

The result of the failure thus to carry the lead on that vessel
was that it did not arrive in Yokohama until on or about
January 4, 1895, instead of on or about November 18, 1894,
which it would have done had it gone forward as contracted
for. In the meantime, the war between China and Japan
ceased, the value of the lead fell, and the trading company
was damaged as stated in the finding of facts.
We think the objections made to this recovery are untenable, and the decree of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES AND THE KIOWA INDIANS v.
MARTINEZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 15. Argued October 21, 22, 1904.-Decided December

a, 1904.

In an action brought under the Indian Depredation Act of March, 3 1891,
26 Stat. 851, a tribe of Indians not originally named in the petition
cannot be brought into the action by amended petition after the expiration of three years from the filing of the original petition in the Court

of Claims.

THIS action was brought in the Court of Claims on October 24, 1891, to recover damages against the United States
and the Ute tribe of Indians in the sum of fourteen hundred
dollars, the value of certain sheep alleged to have been taken
and destroyed or used in June, 1873, by the said Indians.
The petition was filed under the provisions of the act of March 3,
1891, entitled "An act to provide for the adjudication and
payment of claims arising from Indian depredations." 26
Stat. 851. On February 5, 1902, the Assistant Attorney General of the United States answered the allegations of the peti-

OCTOBER TERN, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

195 U. S.

tion by a general denial. On November 4, 1902, the claimant
filed a motion for leave to file an amended petition, charging
the depredation to have been committed by the Kiowa Indians, which motion was allowed, and upon the same day the
amended petition was filed. On November 5, 1902, the Assistant Attorney General, appearing on behalf of the United
States and the Kiowa Indians, filed a plea to the amended
petition, setting up that no action had been commenced against
the Kiowa Indians within three years after the passage of the
act of March 3, 1891. On November 11, 1902, this plea in bar
was overruled, and, upon the general issue being pleaded and'
trial had, the court found as a matter of fact: At the time of
the depredation the claimant's decedent was a citizen of the
United States. In June, 1873, in Mora County, New Mexico,
Indians belonging to the Kiowa tribe took and drove away
property of the kind and character described in the petition,
the property of claimant's decedent, which was reasonably
worth the sum of six hundred and ninety dollars. At the time
of said depredation defendant Indians were in amity with the
United States.
As a conclusion of law the majority of the court decided
that the claimant recover a judgment against the United
States and the Kiowa Indians in the sum of six hundred and
ninety dollars.
The defendants appealed to this court.
Mr. Lincoln B. Smith (pro hac vice), with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson was on the brief, for the appellants:
A new party defendant cannot be brought in by amendment
after the statute of limitations has run in his favor. The substitution of an additional party defendant is equivalent to the
beginning of a new suit. Miller v. McIntyre, 6 Pet. 61;
Sicard's Lessee v. Davis, 6 Pet. 124; Crowe v. Nagle, 86 Illinois,
437; Dunphy v. Riddle, 86 Illinois, 22; Clark v. Manning, 95
Illinois, 508. A supposed hardship cannot affect the decision

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

as statutes of limitations are arbitrary in all their operations.
Jones v. Lemon, 26 W. Va. 629; Kendall v. United States, 107
U. S. 123; Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 320; Duran's Case,
31 C. Cl. 353, distinguished. The objection of the Government is not a technical one. The tribe is a necessary party.
Graham v. United States, 30 C. C1. 318, distinguished, and
see Woolverton v. Nez Perces Indians, 29 C. Cl. 107. As to
the construction of the act and the words "as near as may
be," etc., the court may look at the legislative history of the
act. Blake v. National Bank, 23 Wall. 307. A depredation
may be committed by Indians whom it is impossible to identify
with any tribe and in such case the claimant may recover
against the United States alone. Gorham v. United States, 29
C. Cl. 97; S. C., 165 U. S. 316. But if the claimant fails to
do his utmost to bring in the tribe and brings in the wrong one
and does not correct the error until after the time specified
in the statute has elapsed it is either by his fault or his misfortune that he is barred. The United States is liable as
guarantor only and cannot he held where the primary defendant, being known, has not been proceeded against within
the statutory time.
Mr. William H. Robeson for appellee:
The objection under the statute of limitations is technical,
but the delay was caused by the Government's failure to
plead within the proper time. Duran's Case, 31 C. Cl. 355.
The tribe is not really a necessary party. Kemp v. United
States, No. 4777 C. Cl. Amendments of this nature have from
an early time been permitted. Cowan's Case, 5 C. Cl. 107;
Thomas's Case, 15 C. Cl. 335. Judgment may be rendered
against the United States alone when the tribe of Indians to
which the depredators belonged cannot he identified. Gorham
v. United States, 165 U. S. 316; Woolverton v. United States, 29
C. Cl. 107.
"As near as may be" as used in the act is complied with
by the claimant who attempts to identify the tribe rather than

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

the one who simply avers the 'impossibility of doing so. In
support of the Duran Case, supra,see Garcia v. United States,
37 C. Cl. 243; Johnson v. United States, 160 U. S. 546, 552.
Also see Dykes v. United States, No. 10,556 C. Cl.
To deny these claimants their remedy and to award it to
others suffering during the same Indian attack, because the
others guessed the tribe better, would be unjust and not what
Congress intended.
MR. JusTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This claim arises under the Indian Depredation Act of
March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 851, and presents the question whether,
after the expiration of three years from the filing of the petition in the Court of Claims, a tribe of Indians, not originally
named in the petition, can be brought into the action by
amended petition with a view to proceeding against such tribe
to judgment. The record discloses that the original petition
was filed on October 24, 1891; the amended petition on November 4, 1902. The Attorney General filed a plea setting up
the bar of the statute, which plea was overruled, and thereafter, upon issue joined and testimony taken, judgment was
rendered against the tribe of Indians so brought in by the
amended petition.
The act in question was before this court in United States v.
Gorham, 165 U. S. 316, and in that case it was held that, where
the Indian tribe cannot be identified, a judgment for the
amount of the claim can be rendered against the United States.
In the opinion of the court in that case the act was analyzed
and its various sections construed, and it only remains to consider so much of the act and its purposes as will lead to a
solution of the question now under consideration.
The provisions of the first section of the act are positive,
that all claims existing at the time of the taking of effect of
the act shall be presented to the court by petition, as therein

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provided, within three years after the passage of the act, or be
forever barred. This section, by itself considered, would seem
to conclude the right of the petitioner to bring in a new party
to the proceeding after the expiration of three years in such
wise as to preclude the right to rely upon the bar of the statute. For obvious reasons, a party brought into court by an
amendment, and who has for the first time an opportunity to
make defense to the action, has a right to treat the proceeding, as to him, as commenced by the process which brings him
into court. Miller v. McIntyre, 6 Pet. 61. Conceding this
proposition as applied to ordinary actions, it is urged that this
proceeding is so peculiar in character as tb take it out of the
general rule. Section 3 of the act provides:
"That all claims shall be presented to the court by petition
setting forth: in ordinary and concise language, without unnecessary repetition, the facts upon which such claims are
based, the persons, classes of persons, tribe"or tribes, or band
of Indians by whom the alleged illegal acts were committed,
as near as may be, the property lost or destroyed and the
value thereof, and any other facts connected with the transactions and material to the proper adjudication of the case
involved."
The fifth section of the statute provides:
"That the court shall determine in each case the value of
the property taken or destroyed at the time and place of the loss
or destruction, and, if possible, the tribe of Indians or other
persons by whom the wrong was committed, and shall render
judgment in favor of the claimant or claimants against the
United States and against the tribe of Indians committing
the wrong, when such can be identified."
Section 4 provides for service upon the Attorney General,
whose duty it is to appear and defend for both the interests
of the Government and the Indians, and giving to any Indian
or Indians interested in the proceedings the right to appear
and defend by an attorney employed with the approval of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs. By the sixth section the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

amount of the judgment is charged against the tribe by which
or the members of which the depredation was committed, and
if no annuity, fund or appropriation is available as provided,
the judgment is to be paid from the Treasury of the United
States, to remain a charge against the tribe, and to be deducted from any annuity, fund or appropriation thereafter
due from the United States to such tribe. It is contended that
inasmuch as the Indian tribes are not necessary parties to the
proceeding and are not required to be served with process
except so far as the notice to the Attorney General is such
service, and are only to be described "as near as may be," they
may be brought in at any time before judgment, whenever
such tribe "can be identified," as set forth in the fifth section
of the act. The reasons for this conclusion are fully set forth
in the opinion of the Court of Claims in Duran v. United States
et al., 31 C. Cl. 353. But we are unable to concur in the conclusions therein reached. In our view, the act provides for a
recovery of depredation claims in two classes of cases: The one
where the persons, classes of persons, tribe or tribes or band
of Indians cannot be identified, in which event the United
States may be held liable upon proof complying with other
terms of the act, though failing to identify the particular
depredators; the other, where the persons or tribe described
in the act can be identified, in which event they must be named
in the petition, and the judgment will go against the United
States and the tribe committing the wrong, to be satisfied
primarily out of the funds of the Indians. As was said in the
Gorham case, supra: "It may be fairly claimed that, reading
all the provisions together, the act makes it necessary, when
known, to join with the United States the Indians or tribe of
Indians by whom the illegal acts are alleged or are supposed
to have been committed."
Whichever form the action takes it must be brought within
three years after the passage of the act, as provided by the
first section. In requiring the band or tribe of Indians to be
described as near as may be, it is the purpose of the act to

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

require such tribe primarily liable for the injury to be brought
before the court, when they can be identified for the purpose
of the judgment authorized in the fifth section. All the sections are to be read together to effectuate the purpose of the
law, and when the tribe "can be identified" it must be described as near as may be, that is, with reasonable accuracy,
sufficiently identifying the party for the purposes of the action
and judgment, resorting to the liability of the United States
alone only in cases where the offending parties cannot be
identified. The claimant under the statute has three years
for the purpose of investigating his cause of action, and, in
cases where it can be done, identifying the tribe sufficiently
for the purposes of pleading and judgment against both the
United States and the Indian tribe, or, in the alternative,
proceeding against the United States alone. It is true that
the act does not in terms provide for service upon the Indian
tribes, their agents or attorneys, and the Attorney General is
required to appear for them as well as for the United States.
Of this provision, Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the court
in the Gorham case (supra)said: "Although the fourth section
provides for the defense of the claim by the law officer of theGovernment under any circumstances, yet as the interest of
the Indians is embraced in the inquiry before the court because of their liability to a judgment against them if identified
and to a payment of that judgment out of the annuities or
otherwise as provided in the sixth section, it is proper to allow
them to appear and defend also by their own attorney." When
brought into court they may give by special counsel more
careful attention to their particular defense than could be
given by the law officer of the Government charged with the
defense of thousands of similar claims. But it is said that the
Attorney General, by failing to promptly raise by plea the
defense of misjoinder, is quite as much ii fault as the petitioner in permitting more than three years to elapse before
the new party is brought in, and it is said that at the common
law this objection could only be raised by such plea season-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

ably interposed. At common law, where it was sought to
bring in another party jointly liable, a plea by the defendant
setting forth the non-joinder, and giving the name of such
party, was the proper method of procedure. 3 Chitty on
Pleading, 901, and notes. But such is not the present case.
The original petition charged positively that the depredation
was committed by the Ute Indians. It was sufficient for the
Attorney General to plead the general issue to put the plaintiff upon proof of his allegations. It is said that eleven thousand of these cases have been begun, and it is not to be presumed that the Attorney General would know the facts of each
case, and -be in possession of information to fulfill the requisite

of a good plea and furnish the name of the party to be impleaded. It was for the plaintiff to make such investigation
as would warrant the beginning of the action against the
proper tribe, or against the United States alone, averring that
the particular tribe could not be identified.
It is further insisted that it is the purpose of the act, as
provided for in the fifth section, to require the judgment to
be rendered against the Indian tribe if it can be identified at
any time before judgment, and that this construction is required to protect the interests of the United States. But we
think this section should be read in connection with the other
sections of the act, and the manifest purpose is to join in the
petition when it can -be identified, the tribe by whom the
depredation was committed, and to limit the presentation of
the claim to three years from the passage of the act. If this
be not so the Indians may be made parties to the proceeding
and judgment without being brought into court in any manner
until years after the alleged wrong was committed, and when
it may be impossible, by reason of the lapse of time or the
death or disappearance of witnesses, to make adequate defense. The construction herein put upon the statute will give
to the three years' limitation the effect of other statutes of
limitation and will, in our judgment, best effectuate the purpose of the act. This act is extremely liberal in permitting

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
195 U.S.

JusTIcEs MCKIENNA and WHITE, dissenting.

presentation of claims for Indian depredations. All limitations are swept away except the requirement as to the time
of filing the petition. In the present case the depredation is
alleged to have been committed eighteen years before the
action was commenced. Under these liberal provisions we
think it was the purpose of the law to require parties to be
duly prosecuted within the three years allowed for the filing
of petitions, and the liberality of the act should not be extended by construction. As the case was prosecuted against
the wrong tribe until after the three years had expired, it cannot be maintained against the Indians sought to be brought
in by the amendment, nor can it be sustained against the
United States, which is liable by itself only in cases where the
depredating Indians or other persons are unknown.
It follows that the judgment of the Court of Claims must be
reversed and the petition directed to be dismissed, and it is
so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concurs MR. JUSTICE McKIENNA, dissenting.

Under the Indian depredation act of March 3, 1891, the
United States was sued by one Gorham in the Court of Claims,
and it was averred in the petition that the damage complained
of .had been inflicted by the Comanche and Kiowa tribes of
Indians, who were in amity with the United States. After
hearing, the Court of Claims, finding it to be established by
the proof that the loss complained of had been occasioned by
Indians in amity with the United States, but that the proof
did not show that the Comanche and Kiowa tribes were the
wrongdoers, nevertheless, without any amendment of the petition, rendered a judgment solely against the United States.
The action of the Court of Claims was sustained by this court
in United States v. Gorham, 165 U. S. 316.
In considering the power conferred by the statute it was
said (p. 320):

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
JUSTICES MCKENNA and WHITE, dissenting.

195 U. S.

"In conferring jurisdiction in this class of cases upon the
Court of Claims, it will be seen that Congress conferred it in
regard to all claims for property of citizens of the United
States taken or destroyed by Indians belonging to any band,
tribe or nation in amity with the United States, without just
cause or provocation on the part of the owner or agent in
charge. So long as the depredations were committed upon
the property of citizens of the United States, and by Indians
in amity with the government, without just cause, etc., jurisdiction and authority to inquire into and finally adjudicate
upon such claims was granted to the court. This broad ground
of jurisdiction would, unless circumscribed by the subsequent
provision of the act, permit an adjudication against the United
States alone. There is nothing in any other portion of the
act which provides in terms for joining as co-defendants with
the United States the tribes or bands of Indians by whom the
alleged illegal acts were committed. The third section of the
act merely provides for the contents of the petition, and by
such section it is made the duty of the petitioner to state in
his petition 'the persons, classes of persons, tribe or tribes, or
band of Indians by whom the alleged illegal acts were committed, as near as may be,' etc. This is for the obvious purpose of giving some notice to the government of the alleged
facts upon which the claim is based so that the proper defence, if any exists, may be made to the claim."
Again, after pointing out that the statute made it "the duty
of the court to determine in each case, 'if possible, the tribe
of Indians or other persons by whom the wrong was committed, and to render judgment in favor of the claimant or
claimants against the United States and against the tribe of
Indians committing the wrong, when such can be identified,'"
it was observed (p. 321):
"But the fifth section provides for judgment in favor of
claimant and against the United States in any event, where

the property of a citizen has been destroyed under the circumstances provided in the statute, but only against the tribe

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.

195 U. S.

JUSTICES MCKENNA and WHITE, dissenting.

of Indians committing the wrong 'when such can be identified,'
and of course it follows that if they cannot be identified no
judgment can go against them. The United States would then
be left as alone responsible for the property destroyed provided
the proofs were of the character mentioned in the first section
of the act; that is the claimant would be bound to prove that
he was a citizen of the United States at the time of the taking
or destruction of his property; that it had been taken by
Indians belonging to some band or tribe or nation in amity
with the United States, without just cause or provocation on
the part of the owner or agent in charge, and that it had not
been returned or paid for."
To .my
mind this decision clearly establishes that under the
act of Congress the Indian tribe by whom the depredation was
committed. was not an essential party to give the court jurisdiction over the claim. This conclusion, it seems to me, is
inevitable from the ruling that, although it was alleged in the
petition that a particular tribe was the wrongdoer, it was
competent for the court to conform to the proof and render a
judgment against the United States in a case where the proof
did not establish the truth of the averment as to the tribe
committing the injury, if only it was shown that the wrong
complained of must have been committed by some Indian
tribe which was in amity with the United States. Now, the
question on this record is simply whether a petitioner who
has alleged that the wrong was committed by a particular
tribe can, after the three years' limitation, amend by stating
another and different tribe as the wrongdoer. It is decided
that such amendment cannot be allowed, because to allow it
would amount to a fatal departure, that is, the substitution
of a new and wholly different cause of action.
Consistently with the ruling previously made, my mind cannot assent to thfs conclusion. To adopt it without specifically
overruling the Gorham case, it seems to me, is to declare on
the one hand that it is not essential to prove the allegation
that the wrong was committed by a particular tribe, and on

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

the other hand to say that the allegations as to the tribe committing the wrong were essential to the cause of action. That
is to declare that a particular allegation is at the same time
both essential and non-essential-essential to be alleged, but
not essential to be proved.
As it is considered by me that the Gorham case is conclusive
of this, and as the opinion now .announced does not purport to
overrule that case, it is not necessary for me to enter into a
statement of my reasons for believing that, even if that case
did not exist, the construction now given to the statute is not
only repugnant to its text, but conflicts both with the rights
of individual claimants and those of the United States, as
shown by the purpose and spirit of the act.
I therefore dissent.

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
CERTIFICATE FROM AND ORDER TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 7. Argued October 23, 26, 1903.-Decided December 12, 1904.

The act of Congress of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 597, 620, c. 546, relating to the
land grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, construed: Held,
1. That the act embraces land patented as well as unpatented, to which the
right of the grantee or its lawful successor is claimed to have attached by
definite location or selection, and which has been purchased directly from
the United States or settled upon or claimed in good faith by any qualified settler under color of title or claim of right under any law of the
United States or any ruling of the Interior Department.
2. The words in that act providing that the railroad grantee or its successor in interest "shall "not be bound to relinquish lands sold or contracted by it or lands it uses or needs for railroad purposes, or lands
valuable for stone, iron, or coal,"- do not apply to any lands sold or
contracted by the railroad grantee or its successor in interest after the
acceptance of the provisions of the act by the Northern Pacific Railway
Company; no sale or contracting away of any of the lands embraced by

