OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
THOMAS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 94, 95. Argued October 11, 1904.-Decided December 5, 1904.

While the intention of Congress in the Navy Personnel Act of March 3,
1899, was to put officers of corresponding rank in the Army and Navy
on the same general footing with respect to their general pay and to
make the act prospective in its application to any future legislation by
which the general pay of army officers might be increased, Congress
may increase the pay of army officers for services in particular places
and under special circumstances without thereby intending such increase to apply to naval officers.
A captain in the Navy is not entitled to the ten per cent additional pay
given to army officers under the acts of May 26, 1900, and March 2,
1901, for services in Philippine and Chinese waters or for service beyond
the limits of the States comprising the Union.
The term "vessel employed by authority of law "within the meaning of
ยง 1571, Rev. Stat., is restricted to vessels owned or chartered by, or otherwise engaged in the service of, the Government and while an officer is
traveling on land or on a vessel other than one so employed by authority
of law he is not entitled to pay for sea duty.

THIS was a petition for certain allowances claimed to be
due petitioner as a captain in the United States Navy, under
act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1004, equalizing the pay of army
and navy officers, and known as the Navy Personnel Act.
The findings of fact are too long to be here reproduced, but the
several items claimed by petitioner, and from the disposition
of which these appeals are taken, are cited by counsel in their
brief and by the Court of Claims as follows:
1. From May 26, 1900, to March 1, 1901, he was paid sea
pay of a captain, at $4500 a year, and claims ten per cent
increase of this pay for service in the Philippines and in China,
under the acts of May 26, 1900, and March 2, 1901. 31 Stat.
205, 895.
2. From March 2, 1901, to June 11, 1901, he was paid the
.sea pay of a captain, $4500 a year, and claims ten per cent

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

increase of this pay for service outside the United States, under
the provisions of the act of March, 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 895, 903.
3. From June 12, 1901, to September 30, 1901, he was paid
sea pay at $4500 a year, and claims ten per cent increase under
the act of March 2, 1901, for service outside the United States.
During this time he was in the waters of the San Francisco
Bay, traveling from San Francisco to Puget Sound, and in the
waters of Puget Sound. This claim is made provisionally in
case his service in Chinese and Philippine waters is not considered to be service "inChina" and "in the Philippine Islands," entitling him to ten per cent increase from May 26,
1900, to March 1, 1901. In that event he would claim that
his service in waters of the United States was beyond the limits
of the States comprising the Union.
4. Between December 2, 1899, when relieved as commanding officer of the U. S. S. Lancaster, and ordered to report to
the Navy Department, and February 7, 1900, when he took
command of the U. S. S. Baltimore at Hong Kong, China, he
was paid only shore pay, $3825 a year, fifteen per cent less
than sea pay. He claims sea pay, $4500 a year during that
time.
The last item was disallowed. The first three items were
at first disallowed, but on a rehearing were allowed and final
judgment rendered for $568.29. 38 C. Cl. 113, 719. Both
parties appealed to this court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Pradt, with whom Mr. John
Q. Thompson, Special Assistant Attorney, was on the brief,
for the United Sta~tes.
Mr. George A. King and Mr. William B. King for Charles M.
Thomas.
MR. JusTicE BRowN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of th6 court.
This case depends upon the construction given to section 13

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

of the Navy Personnel Act, declaring that "after June 30, 1899,
commissioned officers of the line of the navy and of the medical
and pay corps shall receive the same pay and allowances, except forage, as are or may be provided by or in pursuance of
law for officers of corresponding rank in the army." The
object of this act can best be understood by considering the
prior legislation of Congress upon the same general subject,
and the circumstances under which the act was passed. By
the act of July 16, 1862, Rev. Stat. ยง 1466, the relative rank
of army and navy officers was fixed by declaring that rear
admirals shall rank with major generals, commodores with
brigadier generals, captains with colonels, commanders with
lieutenant colonels, lieutenant commanders with majors, lieutenants with captains, etc.
It was, however, a source of dissatisfaction to navy officers
that some of them did not receive the same pay as corresponding officers of the army, although others received a larger pay.
Thus by sections 1261 arid 1556 the highest pay of a rear
admiral, when at sea, was $6000, while a major general received $7500, a commodore received $5000 when at sea, while
a brigadier general received $5500. A captain, however,
when at sea received $4500, while a colonel received but
$3500.
To remove this dissatisfaction Congress passed the Naval
Personnel Act, assimilating the pay of navy officers to army
officers of corresponding rank, with a proviso, however, "that
no provision of this act shall operate to reduce the present pay
of any commissioned officer now in the navy; and in any case
in which the pay of such an officer would otherwise be reduced
he shall continue to receive pay according to existing law."
The effect of this legislation was to raise the pay of certain
navy officers to that received by army officers of corresponding rank, and to leave undisturbed the present pay of certain
other navy officers, who were already receiving higher pay
than army officers of the same rank.
The intention of Congress was evidently to put officers of

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the army and navy on the same footing with respect to their
general pay, and to make the act prospective in its application
to future legislation, so that if Congress should thereafter raise
the general pay of army officers as fixed by Revised Statutes,
section 1261, a like increase should apply to navy officers. It
does not, however, follow that Congress may not increase the
pay of army officers for services in particular places or under
special circumstances, without thereby intending that the
same increase shall apply to naval officers performing the same
service under like circumstances. Thus, if the act should
allow army officers increased pay when ordered to sea or to a
foreign port, it would not follow that naval officers would be
entitled to a like increase, since such service would be wholly
exceptional in the case of army officers, while it is the natural
and normal duty of navy officers to engage in sea service,
cruise in foreign waters and lie up in foreign ports. It never
could have been the intention of Congress to disable itself from
awarding to a particular class of army officers an increase of
pay for exceptional services without thereby increasing the
pay of navy officers, whose lives are largely passed in performing like services.
Confirmation of this view is found in the second proviso of
section 13, "that when naval officers are detailed for shore duty
beyond seas they shall receive the same pay and allowances
as are or may be provided by or in pursuance of law for officers
of the army detailed for duty in similar places." Here is a
distinct recognition of the fact that when naval officers are detailed for a special or unusual duty beyond seas, they shall receive the same pay as army officers detailed for the same duties.
This provision, however, would be wholly unnecessary if the
act were given the broad application contended for, since the
increased pay allowed to army officers for duty beyond seas
would apply to naval officers, without a special proviso to that
effect. Shore duty beyond seas being an exceptional duty,
both to officers of the army and navy, and being probably
attended by increased expenditures, and dangers incident to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

a tropical climate, it is very natural that Congress should award
them both increased compensation.
The principal questions in this case, however, arise from the
army appropriation bills of May 26, 1900, and March 2, 1901,
making appropriation for the support of the army for the year
ending June 30, 1901, and 1902, the first of which contains
the following proviso:
"Provided, That hereafter the pay proper of all officers and
enlisted men serving in Porto Rico, Cuba, the Philippine Islands, Hawaii, and in the Territory of Alaska, shall be increased ten per centum for officers and twenty per centum for
enlisted men, over and above the rates of pay proper as fixed
by law in time of peace." 31 Stat. 211.
Here is an increase of ten per cent allowed to army officers
serving in certain designated places. Doubtless if naval officers were detailed for shore duty in any of these islands they
would receive a like increase of pay, under the proviso of
section 13 of the Personnel Act heretofore quoted. But, unless they are detailed for shore duty, it is impossible to hold
that they are entitled to extra pay, without treating as obsolete the above proviso requiring such detail.
The act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 895, 903, making appropriation for the support of the army for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1903, contains the following proviso:
"Provided, That hereafter the pay proper of all officers and
enlisted men serving beyond the limits of the States, comprising the Union and the Territories of the United States
contiguous thereto, shall be increased ten per centum for
officers and twenty per centum for enlisted men, over and above
the rates of pay proper as fixed by law for time of peace, and
the time of such service shall be counted from the date of departure
from said States to the date of return thereto:
"Provided further, That the officers and enlisted men who
have served in China at any time since the twenty-sixth day
of May, 1900, shall be allowed and paid for such service the
same increase of pay proper as is herein provided for."

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Under this proviso an army officer ordered to the Philippine
Islands receives an increase of pay from the day he leaves
San Francisco until he returns there. This allowance was undoubtedly based upon the consideration that service both in
the Philippines themselves and upon the voyage going and
returning was an exceptional service, attended by peculiar
hardships; but to say that navy officers shall be entitled to the
same increase is practically to add ten per cent to their sea pay
from the moment they leave a port of the United States until
they return thereto; in other words, to increase their normal
sea pay ten per cent whenever they are serving beyond the
limits of the States.
So far as applied to naval officers, it goes further than this.
The act of 1901 does not, as did the act of 1900, limit the increase of pay to officers serving in our island possessions and
in Alaska, but extends it to all serving "beyond the limits of
the United States," so that if applied to naval officers, whenever a vessel is ordered to sea beyond the three-mile limit, be
it only upon a practice cruise or a voyage from Pensacola to
New York, every officer on such vessel is entitled to a ten per
cent increase of his ordinary pay from the day he sets sail
until the day he returns.
It is not for a moment to be supposed that Congress contemplated any such sweeping innovation. This construction
would not only render nugatory and obsolete the proviso of
the Personnel Act that officers to be entitled to army pay
shall be detailed for shore duty, but largely discriminates in
favor of naval officers by adding ten per cent to their pay for
their normal sea duties without a corresponding addition to
the pay of army officers for the performance of their normal
duties which are upon land; in other words, instead of assimilating it actually dissimilates the pay of army and naval .
officers.
In our opinion the proviso that naval officers shall be entitled to army pay "when detailed for shore duty beyond seas,"
is not repealed or rendered inoperative by anything contained

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

in the acts of May 26, 1900, and March 2, 1901, and that naval
officers are not entitled to an increase of pay while discharging
their ordinary sea duties.
It is significant in this connection to notice that in the appropriation act of March 2, 1901, for the support of the army
for the fiscal year of 1902, there was an item of $500,000 for
an "additional ten per centum increase on the pay of officers
serving at foreign statidns." 31 Stat. 903. This was followed
by a similar provision in the appropriation act of June 30,
1902, for the year of 1903, the amount appropriated being
$451,456, 32 Stat. 507, 512, and in the army appropriation act
of March 2, 1903, for the year 1904, there was also an item of
$200,000 for the same purpose. 32 Stat. 933. So also in the
appropriation act of April 23, 1904, 33 Stat. 259, 266, for the
year 1905, there is an item for an additional ten per centum
increase on the pay of commissioned officers serving in the
Philippine Islands, the island of Guam, Alaska, China and
Panama of $167,426.30.
Notwithstanding these repeated provisions for the increase
of army pay, Congress has never made an appropriation for
the largely increased pay to which naval officers would be entitled under the acts of 1900 and 1901, or otherwise recognized
their claim for increased pay to which such officers would be
entitled upon the theory of the petitioner in this case. This
omission lends support to the theory that Congress supposed
that the ordinary sea services of naval officers were sufficiently
compensated by the addition of fifteen per centum to their
shore pay.
2. Different considerations apply to the claim of petitioner
to sea pay from December 2, 1899, to February 7, 1900.
Claimant was relieved as commanding officer of the Lancaster,
then at Barbadoes, December 2, 1899, and ordered to report
to the Navy Department, where he arrived, by merchant
steamer, December 12, 1899. Upon the following day he was
ordered to proceed to Hong Kong for duty on the Asiatic
station, and sailed by merchant steamer from San Francisco,

UNITED STATES v. THOMAS.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

January 6, 1900. He reported in obedience to his orders, and
was assigned to the command of the Baltimore at Hong Kong,
February 7, 1900. Between December 2, 1899, and February 7, 1900, petitioner was occupied in traveling on duty.
partly on merchant steamer and partly on land, and in reporting to the Navy Department. During this time his pay
was reduced fifteen per cent from the regular sea pay, in accordance with the first proviso of the Personnel Act, which
declares that "such officers when on shore shall receive the
allowances, but fifteen per centum less pay than when on sea
duty."
The order detaching him from the Lancaster was as follows:
"SIR: You are hereby detached from duty in command of
the U. S. T. S. Lancaster, will proceed immediately to Washington, D. C., and report at the Navy Department, at that
place, for special temporary duty.
"Hold yourself in readiness for orders to sea duty.
"This employment on shore duty is required by the public
interest.
"Respectfully,
A. S. CROWNINSHIELD,
"(Sgd.)
"Acting Secretary.
"Captain CHARLES M. THOMAS, U. S. N.,
"U. S. T. S. Lancaster."
The next day, after reporting to the Navy Department
under this order, he was ordered to proceed to San Francisco,
California, and thence to Hong Kong. It thus appears that
while he was not regularly detailed for shore duty, he was
ordered to report at the Navy Department for a special temporary duty, and the final sentence of the latter indicates that
it was regarded as an employment on shore duty. He was
allowed by the Department fifty dollars traveling expenses
from Barbadoes to New York, but was not allowed either
mileage or sea pay. The Court of Claims, however, allowed
him mileage under section 13 of the Navy Personnel Act, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

a clause of the Army Appropriation Act of March 3, 1899, 30
Stat. 1064, 1068, providing "that hereafter the maximum sum
to be allowed and paid any officer of the army shall be seven
cents per mile, distances to be computed over the shortest
usually travelled routes;" but mileage seems not to have been
claimed for his traveling from Washington to Hong Kong,
by reason of the further provision of the same act "that actual
expenses only shall be paid to officers when travelling to and
from our island possessions in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans."
The Government apparently acquiesced in this allowance of
mileage, as it made no appeal therefrom.
But the Court of Claims further held that, under Rev. Stat.
section 1571, he was not entitled to sea pay, because, by that
section "no service shall be regarded as sea service except
such as shall be performed at sea, under the orders of a department and in vessels employed by authority of law."
This construction must necessarily be correct, unless we are
prepared to hold that a steamer upon which a naval officer
takes passage under the orders of the department is a "vessel
employed by authority of law." Obviously, it does not admit
of this construction. A person who takes passage upon a
steamer or a seat in a railway carriage does not "employ"
such steamer or carriage in any just sense. We think the term
"vessels employed by authority of law" is restricted to vessels
owned or chartered by the Government, or otherwise engaged
in the service of the United States.
Sea duty being duty at sea upon such vessels, an allowance
for mileage is obviously inconsistent with such duty, as the
pay of the officer necessarily includes travel upon such vessels;
while it is appropriate to shore duty, since travel upon such
duty is performed either upon land or upon vessels not engaged in Government service.
There is nothing in the Navy Personnel Act inconsistent
with or repealing Rev. Stat. section 1571, and the case of
Gibson v. United States, 194 U. S. 182, is not in point. In that
case it was held that the Personnel Act did repeal sections 1578

LOCKHART ?-. LEEDS.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and 1585, allowing sea rations, because the later act covered
the same subject and superseded the provisions of those sections. There is no such conflict between section 1571 and the
Personnel Act.
The ruling of the Court of Claims in this last particular was
correct; but for the error in the previous ruling the decree must
be
Reversed.

LOCKHART v. LEEDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 10. Argued October 20, 1904.-Decided December 5, 1904.
Pleadings must be construed reasonably and not with such strictness as
to refuse to adopt the natural construction of the pleading because a
particular fact might have been more distinctly alleged, although its
existence is fairly, naturally and reasonably to be presumed from the
averments actually made.
There is nothing in the intricacy of equity pleading that prevents plaintiff
from obtaining the relief under the general prayer to which he may be
entitled upon the facts plainly stated in the bill; and the court will not
deny the relief if plaintiff is otherwise entitled thereto because it is asked
under the general relief prayer on a different theory from that which is
advanced under one of the special prayers.
Where the defendants are in possession of a mine, having obtained title
thereto from the Government through fraud and connivance with one
who was legally bound to take the title for the plaintiff, and the pliintiff cannot maintain ejectment, never having had the legal title, his
remedy is by action in equity to have the defendants declared trustees
ex maleficio for his benefit, and if it also appears that some of them are
insolvent the defendants will be restrained from further mining pendente
lite.

appellant filed his bill in this suit in the proper court of
New Mexico for the purpose of obtaining relief against the
defendants mentioned therein. The defendants demurred on
several grounds, among which was that the complainant's
THE

