OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

answered by section 2930, declaring that "none of the provisions of this act shall run against causes of action originating
in or arising out of trusts, when the defendant has fraudulently
concealed his cause of action, or the existence thereof, from
the parties entitled or having the right thereto." As there
was no evidence that the defendants had fraudulently concealed the facts from the appellants, and abundant proof that
the facts were known to them, the latter section was held not
to apply. While the case does not necessarily involve it, we
see no reason to question the correctness of the court's conclusion on this point.
We are clearly of the opinion that the delay of eight years
in this case was inexcusable, and the decree of the court below
must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

METROPOLITAN RAILROAD COMPANY v. DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF
THE DISTRICT

OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 16. Argued October 24, 1904.-Decided November 28, 1904.
A condemnation proceeding initiated before a court in the District of
Columbia, conducted under its supervision, with power to review and
set aside the verdict of a jury, and with the right of review in an appellate
tribunal is in its nature an action at law. The jurisdiction of this court
in reviewing the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District in
such a proceeding is not by appeal, but only by writ of error, and this
court cannot pass upon errors assigned unless the record contains a bill
of exceptions allowed and authenticated by the judge.
Parties cannot by affidavits or agreements cause that to become a bill of
exceptions which is not such in a legal sense.
UPON this record the Metropolitan Railroad Company seeks,
both by appeal and writ of error, to obtain a review of the
action of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,
affirming an order of the Supreme Court of the District, which

MET. R. R. CO. v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
195 U. S.

323

Statement of the Case.

order sustained an award against the company, contained in
the verdict of a jury rendered in condemnation proceedings,
under an act of Congress. 31 Stat. 668. The statute referred
to is entitled "An act authorizing and requiring the Metropolitan Railroad Company to extend its lines on old Sixteenth street." Briefly, the act authorized and required the
company to extend its lines over the streets to which the act
referred, and for the purpose of enabling this to be done
directed the commissioners of the District to commence the
necessary proceedings to acquire the land needed for the
widening of the streets. It was directed that the condemnation proceedings should be commenced in the Supreme Court
of the District upon notice, under the supervision of the court,
to all interested parties. A jury of seven was directed to be
empaneled by the court, and this jury, after organizing and
viewing the premises, were to "proceed, in the presence of the
court, if the court shall so direct, or otherwise as the court may
direct, to hear and receive such evidence as may be offered or
submitted on behalf of the District of Columbia and by any
person or persons having any interest in the proceedings for
the extension of said street." The act required the jury to
return a written verdict fixing the amount of damages sustained by the lot owners by reason of the taking of their property for the widening of the streets, and also to ascertain and
fix the benefits which would result from the work, not only
to the lot owners but to the Metropolitan Railroad Company,
and the sum of the benefits was directed to be assessed against
the railroad company and the lot owners. Power was conferred upon the court to hear any objections which might be
made to the verdict and to set it aside in whole or in part if
the court were satisfied that it was unjust or unreasonable.
Section 13 of the act is as follows:
"SEc. 13. That no appeal by any interested party from the
decision of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
confirming the assessment or assessments for benefits or damages herein provided for, nor any other proceedings at law or

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

in equity by such party against the confirmation of such assessment or assessments, shall delay or prevent the payment of
the award to others in respect to the property condemned
nor the widening of such streets: Provided, however, That upon
the final determination of said appeal or other proceeding at
law, or in equity, the amount found to be due and payable
as damages sustained by reason of the widening of the streets
under the provisions hereof shall be paid as hereinbefore provided."
The transcript before us shows that in July, 1900, the commissioners of the District instituted the proceedings in condemnation required by the act, and that among others the
Metropolitan Railroad Company was made a party. A jury
having been empaneled they were directed by the court to
view the premises, and outside of the presence of the court
to hear such evidence as might be produced by the interested
parties, and to return their verdict to the court. Soon afterwards the railroad company filed an answer praying that it
might be dismissed from the proceedings, because the act of
Congress requiring the company to extend its lines was unconstitutional, and because the company could not be made
liable for any assessment for benefits conferred upon it by the
proposed work, as it owned no property in the District embraced by the improvement. Immediately following the answer of the railroad company is set out what purports to be
instructions asked by the railroad company to be given by
the court to the jury. Each of these instructions is marked
by the clerk as filed on a named date, and below each instruction, unaccompanied by any certificate from a judge, is the
statement "Rejected with permission to present later." Following these papers is what purports to be a notice on behalf
of the railroad company, that on a given day it would present
a request to the court for the giving of the refused instructions
as well as of others, and the paper in question, as also the instructions referred to in it, are marked filed by the clerk on a
date named, and below some of the instructions, without any

MET. R. R. CO. v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
195 U. S.

325

Statement of the Case.

certificate whatever by the judge, is a recital "Rejected and
exception by the Railroad Company" or "Granted, and exception by D. C. and also by G. F. Williams on behalf of certain property owners."
The transcript shows that the jury returned a verdict to
the court fixing the damages and benefits, and that there was
assessed against the railroad company for benefits the sum of
$25,000. A rule nisi was entered to confirm the verdict, and
the railroad company filed the following exceptions:
"The Metropolitan Railroad Company excepts to the finding, assessment, and award against it for alleged benefits to
it from the proposed widening and extension of the said
Columbia road and Sixteenth street, and for cause or ground
of exception shows:
"1. That the said finding, assessment, and award are without evidence to support the same.
"2. That the said finding, assessment, and award are contrary to the evidence.
"3. That the said finding, assessment, and award are contrary to the weight of the evidence.
"4. For errors of law in the instructions given and refused
by the court to the jury over the objection and exception of
the Metropolitan Railroad Company before the said finding,
assessment, and award were made, as shown by the record of
the said cause."
After the filing of these exceptions the transcript shows that
a paper was filed by the clerk, which is styled "Petition of
Metropolitan R. R. Co., to make of record testimony as to the
benefits to Metropolitan Railroad Company." In this petition it is recited that the evidence before the jury was taken
outside of the presence of the court, and that the only testimony before the jury on the subject of the benefits to the
railroad company, as shown by affidavits annexed to the
petition, was that of James B. Lackey, which was reduced to
writing by a stenographer. The court was asked to allow the
affidavits and deposition to be filed as part of the record, "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

same being essential to the hearing and determination of this
respondent's" exceptions to said award filed in this cause, and
it being impossible for this respondent properly to defend its
rights in the premises without in some way causing the said
evidence, and the fact that it was the only evidence in the
case upon the question of said benefits to this respondent, to
appear of record." Upon this petition the following endorsement is shown: "Let the within petition be filed. A. B.
Hagner, Justice." The transcript then sets out what purports to be the affidavits and testimony of Lackey, referred
to in the petition.
It is also shown that upon a subsequent date the Supreme
Court of the District, after due notice to all interested parties,
and after hearing arguments of counsel upon the exceptions
to the verdict, overruled the exceptions and entered a final
decree confirming the award and assessment as found by the
jury, except in a minor particular, which need not be noticed.
There is nothing in the transcript showing that any exception
was reserved to the overruling of the objections to the award
interposed by the company, and no bill of exceptions is shown
to have been allowed by the judge. Immediately at the foot
of the final decree appears the following:
"And from so much of the above decree as overrules its
exceptions and confirms the verdict, award, and assessment
against it, the -Metropolitan Railroad Company appeals in
open court, and the penalty of the appeal bond is fixed by the
court at one hundred dollars.
"A. B. HAGNER, Asso. Justice."
Next follows a stipulation signed by the attorneys for the
District and for the railroad company as to what should constitute the transcript of record for the purposes of the appeal
of the Metropolitan Railroad Company. Item 11 reads as
follows:
"Petition of Metropolitan Railroad Co. to make of record
certain testimony and allowance of same, filed November 24,
1900.

MET. R. R. CO. v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
195 U. S.

-327

Counsel for Parties.

"Motion to vacate order on said petition."
The motion last referred to, however, does not appear in
the transcript.

On the appeal of the railroad company the Court of Appeals affirmed the order appealed from, 20 App. D. C. 421,
and from its action in so doing the railroad company prayed
and was allowed an appeal to this court. About a month
afterwards the attorney for the railroad company filed in
said Court of Appeals a motion in the cause, reading as follows:
"And now comes the appellant -by its counsel and shows
to the court that because of the fact that the record in this
cause contains what may possibly be considered a bill of
exceptions it may be that the proper remedy would be held
to be a writ of error instead of an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the United States. It therefore prays that this
honorable court, in addition to the appeal which was granted
to it to the Supreme Court of the United States in this
cause on the 24th day of October, 1902, it may also be
allowed a writ of error to said court, and that the supersedeas bond required upon said appeal may also be taken
and accepted as a supersedeas bond upon said writ of
error."
An entry appears in the transcript of the allowance of a
writ of error, the filing of a bond conditioned for the prosecution both of the appeal and writ of error, and the transcript
contains citations, as well on the writ of error as on the appeal, signed by the Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals.
The consolidated proceedings, by appeal and writ of error,
is the one which is now here for review.
Mr. J. J. Darlington and Mr. C. C. Cole for appellant and
plaintiff in error.
Mr. E. H. Thomas; with whom Mr. Andrew B. Duvall was
on the brief, for appellee and defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

Assuming that the matters complained of are susceptible
of review by this court, the first question is whether our
jurisdiction is dependent upon the appeal or the writ of
error.
That a proceeding involving the exercise of the power of
eminent domain is essentially but the assertion of a right legal
in its nature has been determined. So also the decisions of
this court have settled that a condemnation proceeding initiated before a court, conducted under its supervision, with
power to review and set aside the verdict of the jury, and
with the right of review vested in an appellate tribunal, is
in its nature an action at law. Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S.
367, 376; Searl v. School DistrictNo. 2, 124 U. S. 197; Chappell
v. United States, 160 U. S. 499, 513.
The proceedings provided for in the act of June 6, 1900,
being of this character, it is, we think, manifest that the jurisdiction of this court can be exercised only by writ of error.
When both the proceeding by appeal and that by writ of
error were allowed the jurisdiction of this court to review the
judgments and decrees of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia was regulated by section 233 of the Code of the
District of Columbia. 31 Stat. 1189, 1227. In effect that
section was but a reenactment of the then existing provisions
of the eighth section of the act of February 9, 1893, which act
established the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia.
By said section of the code the power of this court to review
by writ of error or appeal the judgments or decrees of said
Court of Appeals, excluding certain exceptional and enumerated cases, is limited to cases where the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum of five thousand dollars,
and such power to review is to be exerted only in the same
manner and under the same regulations as theretofore prevailed before the organization of the Court of Appeals in cases

MET.
195 U. S.

R. R. CO. v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

329

Opinion of thd Court.

of writs of error on judgments or appeals from decrees rendered in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Now, as it is settled by the authorities previously referred
to that the proceeding in question was legal in its nature and
not one of equitable cognizance, and as it has also been settled
that the jurisdiction of this court prior to the act of 1883, to
review the final judgments or decrees of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, did not give power to review by
appeal, a matter not of equitable cognizance, Ormsby v. Webb,
134 U. S. 47, 64, it necessarily follows that we are without
jurisdiction to review the action of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia on the appeal here taken, and that
appeal must, therefore, be dismissed.
Thus disposing of the appeal we come to consider the case
on the writ of error. The errors assigned in the brief of counsel are as follows:
"The court below erred in sustaining the trial court:
" 1st. In refusing to set aside the assessment because not supported by the eidence, and because contrary to the same and the
weight thereof.
"2d. In refusing to instruct the jury that no assessment could
be made against it as a corporation,but only against such of its
property, if any, as might be benefited.
"3d. In refusing to instruct the jury that no assessment of
benefits could be made against appellant."
In view of the condition of the record, as disclosed by the
statement of the case which we have made, we are of opinion
that we cannot pass upon the errors embraced by these assignments.
.The inability so to do results from the fact that there is no
bill of exceptions in the record showing that the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia was asked to and refused
to give the alleged instructions upon which the second and
third assignments of error depend, nor does it appear, from
a bill of exceptions or in any other appropriate mode, upon
what the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia acted

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court. '

195 U. S.

in considering the exception expressly stated to be based upon
the evidence. Not only this, but there is nothing of record
exhibiting the fact that any exception was duly taken to the
action of the court in overruling the objections urged by the
railroad company to be confirmation of the verdict of the
jury.
True it is that the transcript contains what purport to be
certain instructions asked and refused, marked filed by the
clerk. True also is it that there is in the printed transcript
a petition and other papers concerning the evidence given
before the jury, to which we have referred in the statement
of the case. And it is also true that there is in the printed
transcript an agreement between counsel, reciting that the
court allowed the prayer of the petition. But in the absence
of a bill of exceptions, allowed and authenticated by the judge,
these documents form no part of the record in this court, which
we have alone the right to consider in determining the merits
of the errors assigned. Young v. Martin, 8 Wall. 354; Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Sixth Presbyterian Church, 91
U. S. 127; Clune v. United States, 159 U. S. 590, 593; Nelson
v. Flint, 166 U. S. 276, 279.
In Young v. Martin, where entries had been made by the
clerk in his minutes, stating the filing of a demurrer, argument thereon and overruling of the demurrer, and that exception had been taken by plaintiff, it was held that the exception was not available. The court said (p. 356):
"These entries do not present the action of the court and
the exceptions in such form that we can take any notice of
them. It is no part of the duty of the clerk to note in his
entries the exceptions taken, or to note any other proceedings
of counsel, except as they are preliminary to, or the basis of,
the orders or judgment of the court."
It may be observed in passing that whilst it is not now necessary to seal a bill of exceptions, Rev. Stat. sec. 953, the other
requisites referred to are essential.
In Baltimore & Potomac R. R. Co. v. Sixth Presbyterian

MET. R. R. CO. v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
195 U. S.

331

Opinion of the Court.

Church-a case similar in character to that under reviewthe court said (pp. 130, 131):
"Neither depositions nor affidavits, though appearing in
the transcript of a common law court of errors, can ever be
regarded as a part of the record, unless the same are embodied
in an agreed statement of facts, or are made so by a demurrer
to the evidence, or are exhibited in a bill of exceptions.
"Exceptions may be taken by the opposite party to the
introduction of depositions or affidavits; and the party introducing such evidence in a subordinate court may insist that
the court shall give due effect to the evidence, and, in case of
refusal to comply with such request, may except to the ruling
of the court, if it be one prejudicial to his rights. Where
neither party excepts to the ruling of the court, either in respect to its admissibility or legal effect, the fact that such a
deposition or affidavit is exhibited in the transcript is not of
the slightest importance in the Appellate Court, as nothing
of the kind can ever constitute the proper foundation for an
assignment of error. Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How. 433.
"Inquisitions like the present one bear a strong analogy
in many respects to the report or award of referees appointed
under a rule of court, to whom is referred a pending action.
Referees in such cases make their report to the court; and in
such a case the report, unlike an award at common law, must
be confirmed before the prevailing party is entitled to the
benefit of the finding of the referees. When the report is filed
in court the losing party may file objections in writing to the
confirmation of the report, and may introduce evidence in
support of the objections; and it is well-settled law that the
ruling of the court in overruling such objections is the proper
subject of a bill of exceptions. Railroad v. Myers, 18 How.
250."
In Clune v. United States, in the course of the opinion the
court said (159 U. S. 593):

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

"Finally, there is a claim of error in the instructions, but
the difficulty with this is that they are not legally before us.
True, there appears in the transcript that which purports to
be a copy of the charge, marked by the clerk as filed in his
office among the papers in the case; but it is well settled that
instructions do not in this way become part of the record.
They must be incorporated in a bill of exceptions, and thus
authenticated by the signature of the judge. This objection
is essentially different from that of the lack or the sufficiency
of exceptions. An appellate court considers only such matters as appear in the record. From time immemorial that has
been held to include the pleadings, the process, the verdict,
and the judgment, and such other matters as by some statutory or recognized method have been made a part of it."
That parties by their affidavits or agreements cannot cause
that to become a bill of exceptions which is not such in a legal
sense, is settled. Nelson v. Flint, 166 U. S. 276, 279; Malony
v. Adsit, 175 U. S. 281, 285, and cases cited.
As it results that the record before us does not exhibit error,
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia must be and it is
Affirmed.

OLSEN v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF

CIVIL APPEALS

FOR THE FOURTH

SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 42. Argued November 3, 1904.-Decided November 28, 1904.

State laws regulating pilotage, although regulations of commerce, fall
within that class of powers which may be exercised by the States until
Congress has seen fit to act upon the subject.
Whether illegal provisions in a pilotage statute granting discriminatory
exemptions to vessels of that State can be eliminated without destroying the other provisions of the statute, is a State and not a Federal ques-

