OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST.
PAUL RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 54. Submitted November 4, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.
Where it does not appear that one claiming to have entered land prior to
its withdrawal under a land grant act had done all that was possible to
perfect his entryand had either taken possession or otherwise not acquiesced in the decision, the attempted entry is not sufficient to take the
land from jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior so as to prevent
him from certifying it under the grant as unappropriated lands of the
United States.
Under the acts of 1887, 24 Stat. 556, and 1896, 29 Stat. 42, the title of one
who holds under the railway company as a bona fide purchaser and is in
actual ignorance of any defect in the company's title, will not be affected
by any constructive notice of such defect with which a purchaser might
be chargeable.
Where an entry had been abandoned prior to certification of indemnity
lands by the Secretary of the Interior to a State for the benefit of a
railroad company under a land grant, the land is unappropriated land of
the United States and can be certified under the grant, and the certification will not be set aside in favor of one who attempts to enter the land
as a homesteader after the lands have been selected by the railroad company to make up a deficiency in place lands.
THE United States on the sixth day of March, 1893, filed
this bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota for the purpose of setting aside the certification, under the land grant of Congress, 14 Stat. 87, made
by the Secretary of the Interior, of the land described in the
bill, to the State of Minnesota, for the benefit of the railroad
company, and also to set aside the conveyance thereof by the
State to the railroad company, and by the company to one
of the individual defendants. A supplemental bill was filed,
by leave, March 4, 1901, bringing in by service of the subpcena other individual defendants.
The suit was brought under and pursuant to the act of
Congress of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556, entitled "An act to
provide for the adjustment of land grants made by Congress

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO,- M. & ST. P. RY. 525
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

to aid in the construction of railroads and for the forfeiture
of unearned lands, and for other purposes."
Upon trial in the Circuit Court the bill was dismissed, and
the decree of dismissal was affirmed by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, 116 Fed. Rep.
969, and from that decree of affirmance the Government has
appealed here.
The facts upon which the controversy arose are, in substance, as follows: On the fourth day of July, 1866, Congress
passed an act making an additional grant of lands to the State
of Minnesota, 14 Stat. 87, to aid in the construction of railroads in that State. The Southern Minnesota Railroad Company was at the time of the passage of the act of Congress a
corporation organized under the laws of Minnesota, with the
power to construct a line of railroad as mentioned in that act.
The legislature of Minnesota, on the twenty-fifth day of February, 1867, transferred the land granted to it by the act
of Congress to the railroad company, subject to the provisions
of that act and also of the state statute.
Among the lands thus transferred was a lot eighty acres
in extent, in Faribault County, Minnesota, being the property
in dispute in this suit. The land was within the indemnity
limits of the grant by Congress to the State, as determined
by the map of definite location of the railroad, which became
effective February 25, 1867. The deficiency in what are
termed the "place" lands was largely in excess of eighty
acres. On the twenty-ninth day of November, 1870, the
Southern Minnesota Railroad Company selected this tract in
section 35 in lieu of part of the land lost in the granted limits,
and the land was certified to the State of Minnesota by the
Secretary of the Interior, March 25, 1871, for the benefit of
the railroad company, and on the eighth day of August, 1871,
the State of Minnesota conveyed it by deed to the railroad
company. In March, 1868, the company had mortgaged all
of its property, including the land granted under the act of
Congress and all subsequently acquired property, to secure

OCTOBER TERM,

1904.

Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

the payment of its bonds. This mortgage was foreclose& and
the property sold and conveyed to a new corporation by the
name of the Southern Minnesota Railway Company, and the
land was conveyed to that company. On the fifth day of
January, 1885, the railway company, by contract in writing,
agreed to sell the land in dispute to one A. Boyeson for the
sum named in that contract. Boyeson assigned his interest
in the contract, on the sixth of January, to Fredericksen, who,
on the first day of April, 1885, assigned it to the defendant,
Thomas S. Thompson, and, in turn, on the third day of February, 1888, the latter assigned it to Ericksrud, who paid the
balance due upon the contract and received the warranty deed
for the land from the railway company on the twentieth day
of March, 1888.
Ericksrud died intestate on March 27, 1888, and on November 6, 1888, the land was decreed by the probate court to be
the property of the widow and heirs at law of Ericksrud, and
they remained in possession, and on May 24, 1899, these heirs
at law still being in possession, conveyed the same to the defendant Woodwick for the sum of two thousand dollars cash.
This is the title of record coming from the United States to the
State, thence to the railroad company and, by mesne conveyances, to the defendant Woodwick, and there was nothing
of record showing that any other person was entitled to the
land at the time when Woodwick paid the two thousand dollars to the heirs of Ericksrud and took the deed therefor.
The defendant Donovan, however, lays claim to the land in
question pursuant to the facts now to be stated.
Prior to the passage of the granting act of Congress, above
referred to, one Luman Barclay had, on the twenty-first day
of June, 1866, entered this land in controversy, and also the
eighty acres in section 26, adjoining, as a homestead. In the
following year (1867) Barclay abandoned the land and went
to Canada. Some time after his departure, and in the same
year (1867), Donovan, the defendant, sought to acquire a
homestead on Government land. He examined the land for

UNITED STATES v'. CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. 527
195. U S.

Statement of the Case.

which Barclay had made his entry, and decided to enter it as
a homestead. He went to the United States local land office
for the purpose and was informed by the register of the land
office that he dould not make the entry until Barclay's entry
w~s canceled. He was also informed that if he wished to make
a claim that Barclay had abandoned his interest, he should
publish notice of the time and place where he would make
proof upon that matter. He published a notice accordingly,
for three weeks, and paid nine dollars as the cost thereof, and
in the fore part of August, 1867, made proof that Barclay had
abandoned his homestead claim. Donovan insists that he
was given to understand that he could enter the land as a
homestead, as soon as the local land office received notice from
the General Land Office at Washington that Barclay's entry
was canceled. He thereupon made one application to enter
both tracts of land-the eighty acres in section 26 and the
eighty-acre tract in question in section 35, but left the date
of application blank, because he could make no entry for the
lot in section 35 until Barclay's entry had been canceled.
He did this, as he or his witness Bullis said, to head off any
other applicant for the land, and he left the application with
the local land office. He then went into possession of section 26 and commenced the erection of a house thereon, and
he says he commenced the cultivation of a small part of the
tract in section 35. This was in the fall of 1867. The Barclay
entry was duly canceled at Washington on the fourteenth of
January, 1868, and notice thereafter given to the local land
office, and Donovan was notified of the fact. On the sixth
day of June, 1868, Donovan went to the local land office and
applied to enter the two tracts of land. He was there informed that the odd-numbered sections within twenty miles
of the road had been withdrawn from market, and that such
withdrawal included the section in question, and that he could
not, therefore, enter the eighty acres in section 35 as a part
of his homestead.
Donovan acquiesced in this determination of the local land

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

office, and made his entry for the eighty acres in section 26.
The old application for the two lots was destroyed and a new
one made out for the lot in section 26. He thereafter used the
land in section 35 in connection with his owtl in section 26,
and cut grass upon and plowed some of it, but it does not
appear that he laid any claim to it as land which he had attempted to enter and which had been improperly or wrongfully refused him. His house and other permanent improvements were on section 26. At the time he made proof (in 1875)
for the eighty acres in section 26, Donovan says he offered to
make proof also as to the land in section 35, but his offer was
rejected because, among other reasons, he had not entered the
land in that section. He has obtained his patent for the eighty
acres in section 26.
On the twenty-sixth day of June, 1883, Donovan applied
at the local land office to enter this tract of land in section 35
as an additional homestead, under the act of March 3, 1879,
20 Stat. 472, and the register certified that the application wag
for surveyed lands of the class the applicant was legally entitled to enter under the homestead act of 1862; in other
words, unappropriated public lands of the United States.
The application was rejected upon the ground that the land
so applied for had been certified to the State of Minnesota for
the benefit of the railroad company. Donovan appealed from
this rejection to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
where, it is stated, the matter is still pending and undetermined.
In 1885 the defendant Thompson, an assignee of the contract made by the railway company with Boyesen, went into
possession of the eighty acres in section 35, and ordered
Donovan off the same, and Donovan left the land accordingly. After Thompson took possession of the land, April 1,
1885, Donovan, in the same year, commenced a suit in the
District Court of Faribault County to obtain possession of the
land, and on or about the twenty-fourth of March, 1887, the
state court decided that Donovan had no title to the land or

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, M1. & ST. P. RY. 529
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

right to the possession of the same, and that Thompson had
the right to the possession thereof under the contract already
mentioned. This judgment against him in the state. court
was never appealed from by Donovan, nor, has it ever been
vacated, modified or reversed. In 1888 Donovan applied to
the Land Department at Washington for relief by reason of
the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, heretofore referred to.
In relation to that application the Commissioner of the General Land Office, on February 14, 1889, addressed a letter to
the Secretary of the Interior, and therein spoke of Donovan's
application for the institution of proceedings under that act
of Congress, and said that Donovan had no title to the land,
but he sent all the papers to the Secretary for review by him.
On the first of April, 1889, the Secretary replied to the communication of the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and therein reversed his holding, and directed the latter to
make a demand of the railway company for the reconveyance
of the land, as provided for in the act. On the twelfth of
April, 1890, the Commissioner sent a communication to the
Secretary, informing him that a demand for the reconveyance
of the land had been made April 9, 1889, upon the railroad
company, and that no answer had been made, although more
than a year had elapsed since the demand. On the sixteenth
of April, 1890, the Secretary of the Interior transmitted the
letter to the Attorney General with a request that suit might
be instituted to have the certification of the land in question
by the Land Department to the State of Minnesota set aside
and canceled if, in the opinion of the Attorney General, the
suit could be maintained. After waiting three years, and on
the sixth of March, 1893, the United States filed its bill against
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company as
successor in interest pf the former companies, and also against
the Southern Minnesota Railway Company, Michael Donovan,
Thomas S. Thompson and C. C. Ericksrud. On August 11,
1894, the companies answered the bill. Donovan did not
answer it until March 6, 1901, and then confessed the same,
VOL. exov-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

195 U. S.

and prayed that the relief asked for might be granted. On
March 4, 1901, the United States filed a supplemental bill,
wherein it was stated that no service had ever been made upon
Thompson or Ericksrud, and that on June 24, 1899, the heirs
of Ericksrud had joined in a deed conveying the land in question to Louis K. Woodwick.

Process was prayed against the

defendants, the heirs of Ericksrud, and also against Woodwick, and subpcenas were served on them, and on May 2, 1901,
they answered the supplemental bill. A special examiner was
appointed to take testimony, and on January 13, 1902, he
submitted his report of the testimony taken in the suit, to
the court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy for the United States,
appellant:
When the Government is a mere formal complainant in a
suit, not for the purpose of asserting any legal right or protecting any public interest, title or property, but merely to
form a conduit through which one private person can conduct
litigation against another private person, a court of equity
will not be restrained from administering the equities existing
between the real parties by any exemption of the Government designed for the protection of the United States alone.
United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S.338.
The court below failed to give the proper effect to the act
of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556. As to this statute, see United
States v. Winona &c. R.R. Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 969; Ore. & Cal.
R. R. Co. v. United States, 189 U. S.103. If there were any
laches they were laches of officers of the United States and
not of Donovan. Kelly v. Boettcher, 85 Fed. Rep. 55, 62.
The lands in the indemnity limits of the grant were not
withdrawn from market on September 10, 1866, and the cancelation of Barkley's entry on January 14, 1868, restored the
80-acre tract in controversy to market, and subject to entry
by the first legal applicant. Where a tract of land in the
place or granted limits is subject to a homestead or pre-

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, Al. & ST. P. RY. 531
195 IT.S.

Argument for Appellant.

emption claim at the date of the grant, it is thereby forever
excepted from the grant. Bardon v. Northern PacificRailroad Co., 145 U. S. 535. Where land along the indemnity
limits bf a railroad grant is subject to a homestead or preemption claim at the time of the grant, which claim is afterward canceled, the land then becomes subject to selection
by the railroad company or any other legal applicant. Ryan
v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 382; Wisconsin Central R. R. Co.-v.
Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 511; Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S.
139.
Where Congress provides for the withdrawal of lands from
market, any withdrawal contrary to such provisions is absolutely void. Northern Pacific v. Davis, 19 Land Decisions, 87;
Atl. & Pac. R. R. Co., 6 Land Decisions, 84, 87; St. P., Minn.
& Man. Ry. Co. v. Iverson, 14 Land Decisions, 79.
Where a homestead or preemption claim has attached to
land, such land is thereby segregated from the public domain,
and for the time being is withdrawn from the jurisdiction of
the Secretary of the Interior and the Land Department, and
so continues until the entry is canceled. So. Pac. Railway
Co. v. Bell, 183 U. S. 675; Ore. & Cal. R. R. Co. v. United
States, 189 U. S. 103.
Donovan's application to the local land office to enter the
land was, under the facts in the case, equivalent to a legal
entry.
Where a party applies to enter, under the homestead or
preemption laws of the United States, a tract of land which
is subject to be so taken, and he is qualified to thus acquire
the same, and his application is erroneously rejected by the
Government officials, his right thereto attaches just the same
as though his application had been allowed; and if he continues in possession and complies with the law so as to be
entitled to a patent, he acquires a vested interest of which
he cannot be deprived even by an act of Congress. Shepley
v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537, and
cases cited; Weeks v. Bridgman, 159 U. S. 541; Tarpey v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

195 U. S.

Madsen, 178 U. S. 215; Goodale v. Olney, 12 Land Dec. 324;
Coder v. Lotridge, 12 Land Dec. 643.
As Donovan had complied with all the requirements of the
law, including payment for the land, to entitle him to a certificate and patent for the same, he thereby acquired a vested
interest in the land of which he could not be deprived by any
act of Congress. Gonzales v. French, 164 U. S. 338, 346.
Where a party has paid for the land and has complied with
the law for the acquisition of the same he thereby becomes
the absolute owner, and may deal with the same as his own,
and the same is subject to taxation, although he may not
have received his patent therefor. In such case the Government merely holds the legal title in trust for him. Carroll v.
Safford, 3 How. 441; Astrom v. Hammond, 3 McLean, 108;
Carroll v. Perry, 4 McLean, 26; Ross v. Supervisors &c., 12
Wisconsin, 38; People v. Shearer, 30 California, 645; Newkirk
v. Marshall, 10 Pac. Rep. (Kan.) 571; Hawley v. Diller, 178
U. S. 476.
Donovan's entry and occupation of the lands in controversy and cultivation of the same up to 1871, with the purpose of entering the same as his homestead, had the legal effect
of so withdrawing such lands that the officers of the Land
Department had no authority to issue a certification to the
State of Minnesota, and their acts in so doing with respect to
this tract of land were void. Doolan v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618,
624, and cases cited.
A patent is but evidence of a grant, and the officer who
issues the same acts ministerially and not judicially. United
States v. Stone, 69 U. S. 525; Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476;
Newkirk v. Marshall, 10 Pac. Rep. 571; Burr v. Greeley, 52
Fed. Rep. 926; Weeks v. Bridgman, 159 U. S. 541; Gertgens v.
O'Connor, 191 U. S. 237.
As to who is a bona fide purchaser under the acts of 1887
and 1896, see United States v. Winona &c. R. R. Co., 165 U. S.
463, 478; Colo. Coal & I. Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307,
313; Murray v. Ballou, 1 Johns. 565, and cases supra.

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. 533
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

Mr. Burton Hanson and Mr. W. H. Norris for railway corncompany, appellee: ,
Mr. Andrew C. Dunn for Woodwick and others, appellees:
The railway company has no proper relation to this suit;
and no relation to the relief sought; it has no relation to the
suit, except as having been mistakenly made defendant, and
as having been as mistakenly joined in answer, as if properly
impleaded.
The bill relates solely to one parcel of indemnity land and
the cases cited as to the withdrawal of the Secretary being unauthorized are inapplicable. See Military Reservation, 6
Land. Dec. 18; Woolsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S. 768; Wood v.
Beach, 156 U. S. 548; Dunmeyer Case, 113 U. S. 629; Winona
& St. Peters' Case, 165 U. S. 463, 473.
Donovan's attempted entry was illegal. Bullard v. Des
Moines &c., 122 U. S. 167; St. P. & P. v. Nor. Pac., 139 U. S.
1, 18; United States v. Holmes, 105 Fed. Rep. 41.
Even where the "entryman goes on the public land in good
faith this fact would not justify ignoring the clear rights of
the railroad company under the land grant act. Nor. Pac.
v. Amacker, 175 U. S. 564; The Whitney Case, 132 U. S. 364;
Norton v. Evans, 82 Fed. Rep- 804; Wagstaff v. Collins, 97
Fed. Rep. 3.
The cancelation of the Barkley entry immediately made
this tract selectable by the railroad company. Ryan v. Railway Co., 99 U. S. 382, 388; United States v. Burlington &c.
R. R. Co., 98 U. S. 341; Hahn v. United States, 107 U. S. 402;
Brown v. United States, 113 U. S. 568; United States v. Philbrick, 120 U. S. 62; Burr v. Greeley, 52 Fed. Rep. 926; United
States v. Railroad Co., 67 Fed. Rep. 948, 954.
As to Woodwick's good faith, see Union Trust Co. v. So.
Nay. Co., 130 U. S. 565; Jorgenson v. M. & St. L. Ry. Co., 25
Minnesota, 206; United States v. So. Pac. R. Co., 184 U. S. 49.
Where the United States is a mere formal complainant as
a conduit for litigation for a private person it cannot extend

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

its immunity as a sovereign government to protect such individual. Curtner v. United States, 149 U. S. 662, 674; United
States v. Beebe, 127 U. S. 338, 347; United States v. San Jacinto
Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273, 284; United States v. Des Moines &c.
Co., 142 U. S. 510, 538; United States v. Bell Telephone Co.,
167 U. S. 240, 265; Moran v. Horsky, 178 U. S. 205.
The court will administer the equities between Donovan
and Woodwick and not permit the United States to protect
Donovan and it will look back of the nominal and find the
real parties. New York v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. -76.
Donovan, apart from the United States, has been guilty
of laches himself. St. P. &c. Ry. Co. v. Sage, 44 Fed. Rep.
315. See Minnesota Statutes, §§ 5134, 5136, 5817, of 1894;
ch. 68, March 9, 1874; § 1, ch. 75, Gen. Stat., 1866.
A party by mere settlement upon public lands with intention to obtain title to same under the preemption laws,
does not thereby acquire such vested interest in the premises
as to deprive Congress of the power to dispose of the property,
and notwithstanding the settlement Congress can reserve the
lands from sale. Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; Yosemite
Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77, 82.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The Attorney General contends that before the passage
of the act of Congress granting the land (July 4, 1866) Barclay
had made legal entry upon the books of the local land office
of the land in question, under the homestead laws of Congress, and that such legal entry was in existence at the time
of the passage of the act of Congress of July 4, 1866; that by
reason of such entry the land was excepted from the grant
under that act, and that when Barclay abandoned his homestead claim upon the land it immediately became public land
of the United States, and did not then pass under the grant
to the State pursuant to the act of July 4, 1866, and it was

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. 535
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

therefore not legally withdrawn from market by any act of
the Land Department, nor could it be certified to the State,
and that the attempt to do so was not only erroneous, but
absolutely void; that at the time when Donovan made application to enter the land, in June, 1868, it was part of the
public lands of the United States, open to entry, and his
application, although he had done all that he could, was
wrongfully denied by the local land office; that thereafter the filing of the map of definite location by the railway company,
and its selection of the land in question, and the certification
of the land by the Secretary of the Interior to the State, and
the conveyance by the State to the railway company, and the
contract and conveyances following thereon, conveyed no interest in or title to the premises in question, but that they
rightfully belonged to Donovan, and therefore the certification by the Land Department, etc., should be set aside, to
the end that the land may be transferred to Donovan as demanded in the bill.
On the other hand, it is insisted on the part of the defendant Woodwick that the action of the Land Department officials
in withdrawing the land in question from market was valid
and within the jurisdiction of that department; that the
selection of the land by the railway company was proper, as
being within the indemnity limits of the grant by Congress,
and that its certification by the Secretary of the Interior to
the State was within the power of that officer, and the act was
not, therefore, beyond his jurisdiction, and that his certification and the action of the State conveyed a good title, or, at
any rate, that the defendant Woodwick was a bona fide purchaser of the land, and as such his rights were preserved
under the act of March 3, 1887. 24 Stat. 556.
If Woodwick is protected under that act, as a purchaser
in good faith, even against Donovan, it is unnecessarr to
pursue an inquiry as to the existence of any other defense.
We are of opinion that Woodwick is protected under the
fourth section of the act. The plain intent of that section

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

is, as stated by Mr. Justice Brewer in delivering the opinion
of the court in United States v. Winona &c. Railroad, 165
U. S. 463, to secure one who in good faith and as an honest
transaction purchases the land, and to leave to the Government a simple claim for money against the railroad. The
justice said (pp. 480, 481):
"It will be observed that the technical term 'bona fide
purchaser' is not found in this section, and while it is provided
that a mortgage or pledge shall not be considered a sale so as
to entitle the mortgagee or pledgee to the benefit of the act,
it does secure to every one who in good faith has made an
absolute purchase from a railroad company protection to his
title irrespective of any errors or mistakes in the certification or patent.
I .
These being the provisions of the act of 1887,
the act 'of 1896, 29 Stat. 42, confirming the right and title
of a bona fide purchaser, and providing that the patent to his
lands should not be vacated or annulled, must be held to include one who, if not in the fullest sense a 'bona fide purchaser,' has nevertheless purchased in good faith from the
railroad company."
The counsel for the Government, while strenuously denying that the legal title to this land passed to the State of
Minnesota, by virtue of the certification, in 1871, admits in
his brief that if Woodwick bought the land as a bona fide
purchaser in 1899, and acquired the legal title to the same,
then at that present time not only was the right of the United
States to recover the land defeated, but Donovan was precluded from thereafter asserting his claim to the land as
against such bona fide purchaser. His denial that the legal
title passed is based upon the contention that Donovan, before the year 1871, when the Secretary of the Interior certified
this land to the State had, as stated by counsel, initiated proceedings to obtain this land in section 35 as a homestead, and
had done all he could to make entry thereof, and had been in
possession for three years before this certification, and that

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY.
195 U. S.

537

Opinion of the Court.

prior to 1871 an initiatory title had passed from the United
States to Donovan by reason of his possession and offer to
enter the land, and his payment of the fees and expenses to
the local land officers, so as to prevent the passage of the legal
title to the State, by virtue of the certification referred to,
which, by reason of the acts of Donovan, was rendered wholly
void. It is also asserted that if the United States, in 1871,
did retain title in itself, notwithstanding Donovan's occupation and cultivation of the land, yet such occupation and
cultivation withdrew the land from the jurisdiction of the
Land. Department, so far as any right or power to issue a
certification to the railroad company was concerned, just as
effectually as though the land had been reserved or otherwise
appropriated specifically by an act of Congress.
We think that in 1871, when the certification was made,
jurisdiction over this land remained in the Land Department,
to be exercised by the Secretary of the Interior, notwithstanding the acts of Donovan as shown by this record. It is
shown by the testimony of Donovan himself and of his witness Bullis, putting it all together, that there never was, in
fact, any entry of this land at the local land office, in the
name of Donovan, before the certification in 1871. The facts
as to what took place at that office in regard to the applications of Donovan in 1867 before the Barclay entry was canceled, and in June, 1868, when the entry was made for the
lot in section 26, are set forth in the statement of facts herein,
and need not be repeated. The statement shows no such facts
as put Donovan in the place of one who, having done all he
could to enter the land, had been refused such entry, but had
nevertheless not acquiesced in such decision and had taken
possession of it as a homestead. On the contrary, Donovan
did acquiesce in that decision and amended his application.
There was no entry made on the books of the local land
office for this land under the amended application, and the
power of the Secretary of the Interior to make the certification, even if we assume that it was erroneously exercised,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

was not an act which was beyond the jurisdiction of the
Secretary. The legal title was thus transferred by the Government to the State, and at the most it was an erroneous
certification within the meaning of the act of 1887. Although under such circumstances, if the certification were
erroneous and might have been avoided and the land recovered back by the Government while in the hands of the
railroad company, yet Woodwick, if a purchaser in good faith
of the lands, was entitled to them under the provisions of the
act. He had no notice, actual or constructive, of the claim
of the Government in regard to this land. The record title
was plain. No suit had been commenced when Ericksrud
took his title from the Government and went into possession
thereunder. He died within a week thereafter, and his heirs
thereupon took possession. They were in possession when the
Government commenced this suit, in 1893, but were never
served with process therein until 1901, which was two years
after Woodwick had purchased the property from them and
had in good faith paid them the sum of $2,000 in cash for the
land.
Counsel for the Government admits that it is futile to maintain that Woodwick had constructive notice of the defects
in his title by reason of the pendency of this suit, which had
been commenced by the Government in 1893, but in which
the railroad companies alone had been served with process.
Whatever equities Donovan may have had as against the
Government by virtue of his so-called attempt to make entry
for the eighty acres in section 35, they do not override the
plain provisions of the statute of 1887, and also that of 1896,
29 Stat. 42, which save the rights of one who purchased from
the railroad in good faith.
As was observed by Mr. Justice Brewer, in the case already
referred to, United States v. Winona &c. Railroad, 165 U. S.
at 480, "It matters not what constructive notice may be
chargeable to such a purchaser if, in actual ignorance of any
defect in the railroad company's title and in reliance upon

UNITED STATES v. CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. 539
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the action of the Government in the apparent transfer of title
by certification or patent, he has made an honest purchase
of the lands."
Donovan is not brought within the case of Winona &c.
Railroad v. United States, immediately following the above
cited case, at page 483, because, among other facts, it appears herein that there was no record of any entry in Donovan's case for this land on the books of the local land office,
and it is conceded that he had been out of any possession of
the land since 1885. The above cited case is not, therefore,
in point. The same may be said of Duluth &c. Railroad v.
Roy, 173 U. S. 587, and Oregon &c. Railroad v. United States
(Nos. 1 and 2), 189 U. S. 103, 116.
Donovan cannot be regarded as having by his action secured
a vested interest in this land, so as to make the certification
to the State a wholly void act, as an act beyond the jurisdiction of" the Secretary. Assuming that it may have been
erroneous and voidable, it was not void. We do not decide
it was erroneous. In 1871 the legal title, still remaining in
the Government, was transferred to the State by the certification of the Secretary, and, as we have said, Woodwick occupied the position of a purchaser in good faith under the acts
of Congress.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

