OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

instructive, although not absolutely in point. See also Kneeland v. American Loan & Trust Co., 138 U. S. 509.
It may not be improper to add that when the Republic of
Colombia made its voluntary submission to arbitration it
agreed that, if the award was against it, in excess of a sum
paid in advance, the Government should "pay the excess at
such time, in such manner, and on such terms as may be determined by the Commission." Art. 10. See Art. 9. This
language authorized the allowance of interest, and the first
draft of the award gave interest at six per cent in case of failure
to pay at the time fixed, allowing, on the other hand, a discount of five per cent for cash. Both of these provisions were
omitted from the final award, which stopped with fixing the
time. But when the Republic submitted itself to the courts
it must be taken to have done so on the same terms as other
litigants, so far as fixing the amount which it was to pay was
concerned, that being the matter on which the action of the
courts was invoked, it seems to us that it was competent for
the Circuit Court to decree the payment of interest as in an
ordinary case.
Rule discharged. Petition denied.

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 60. Argued November, 10, 11, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.

On writ of error to a state court reviewing its refusal to cancel a judgment
after discharge of the debtor in bankruptcy on the ground that the judgment was in an action for fraud, the Federal question is not whether the
complaint sufficiently charged fraud to warrant the judgment but whether
the action was for fraud; and if there are facts charged and found to the
effect that false and fraudulent representations were made and relied on
which in the state court were sufficient to warrant relief on the ground
of fraud the judgment comes within the exception of ยง 17 of the bank-

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

rupt act and will not be canceled although the suit may originally have
been brought in equity for specific performance instead of for money
judgment. A statement made fraudulently with knowledge of its falsity
must necessarily be intended to deceive.

-THE plaintiff in error, Spencer S. Bullis, having been discharged in bankruptcy on September 19, 1899, which discharge
covered provable debts existing on November 14, 1898, made
application under the New York Code, section 1268, for the
cancelation and discharge of certain judgments rendered
against him in the Supreme Court of New York. The defendants in error, judgment creditors of said Bullis, opposed
the granting of the order upon the ground that the judgments
against Bullis were in an action for fraud, and therefore not
discharged under the terms of the bankrupt law. The Supreme Court of New York denied the application. Upon appeal to the Appellate Division, Fourth Department, this judgment was affirmed. 68 App. Div. 508. Bullis then appealed
to the Court of Appeals of New York, which affirmed the judgment of the court below without opinion. 171 N. Y. 689.
The facts necessary to be noticed in this case are in substance: James R. O'Beirne, in behalf of himself and other
bondholders, filed a complaint, setting forth, among other
things, that, on September 8, 1899, Bullis and one Barse
owned the capital stock of three railroads, two organized
under the laws of Pennsylvania and one under the laws of
the State of New York, which railroads were constructed for
the purpose of reaching timber on large tracts of land. At
that time the length of the railroads was about sixteen miles,
but an extension of the lines was contemplated so as to cover
about thirty miles. Certain agreements are alleged between
said Bullis and Barse and a firm of bankers, Newcombe &
Company, of New York, by the terms of which Bullis and
Barse were to execute a mortgage to the Central Trust Company of New York, to secure $250,000 of first mortgage bonds
running thirty years, which mortgage was to cover the railroad properties and 30,000 acres of timber lands in Duquesne

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

County, Pennsylvania. The property was to be under the
management of a new corporation, to be organized with a
capital stock of $250,000. Various agreements were made as
to the organization and management of said corporation. Another agreement was entered into between the parties, providing for the merger and consolidation of the railroads into a
new company with a capital stock of $500,000, and for a
mortgage to the Central Trust Company as trustee to secure
$500,000 of first mortgage bonds. The railroad lines were to
be extended to seventy miles and 16,000 acres of timber
lands to be included, making 46,000 acres to be owned by
the new company. Three hundred thousand dollars of the
bonds were to be put upon the market, to represent fortysix miles of the railroad. Newcombe and Company were to
dispose at par of $260,000 of these bonds in accordance with
the terms of the agreement. Bullis and Barse were to enter
into an agreement for consolidating the said railroads into one
system, by agreement with the International Interior Construction and Improvement Company. On September 10,
1899, the Construction Company made a contract with the
Allegheny and Kinzua Railroad Company, owned by Bullis
and Barse, and one with Bullis and Barse, providing for the
construction and consolidation of the railroads and for the
distribution of the proceeds of the bonds, a considerable portion of which were to be given to Bullis and Barse.
The complaint specifically charges: That Bullis and Barse
falsely and fraudulently pretended and represented to the
said firm of Newcombe & Company that said tract of 30,000
acres to be conveyed was free and clear from all encumbrances;
that all of said land was contiguous or adjacent to the line
of said railroad as the same was then constructed or surveyed
or projected, and the said land was covered by a large quantity of merchantable timber, capable of yielding and producing seventy tons of freight in timber, lumber and bark for
each acre of land, for transportation over said railroad. It
is further alleged that, in fulfillment of said agreements, the

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

defendant railroad corporation, on ihe first day of February,
1890, executed its first mortgage deed of trust to said trust
company, conveying to it said railroad properties and franchises, and providing for an issue of bonds limited to $500,000,
to be secured by said properties and the 46,000 acres of timber to be conveyed by said Bullis and Barse to said trustee.
That the defendants Bullis and Barse caused the said Bullis
and Sarah E., his wife, to join with said railroad company in
said mortgage, and that by said mortgage they assumed to
convey to said trustee land contiguous to the line of said
railroad and free from encumbrances, and covered by a quantity of merchantable timber, aggregating 30,954.10 acres, and
which by the terms of said agreements was to be a condition
precedent to the issue of $300,000 of said bonds to be used in
building and completion of said forty-six miles of said railroad; that in reliance upon the conveyance of said lands bonds
to the amount of $300,000 were issued and were sold by Newcombe & Company, ten of which were purchased by the plaintiff in the action; that all the proceeds of the said bonds have
been used in the construction of said lines and in the payment
of prior liens upon the property and the constituent lines, and
that the defendant railroad company, which is the consolidated company, is wholly without funds, and that the extension thereof is essential to enable it to obtain money to meet
its liabilities; that said Bullis and Barse refused to convey to
said trustees the remaining 16,000 acres of such land and to
provide for the building of the balance of said railroad, whereby
the construction company is unable to proceed with its work
of completing the same.
The complaint further alleges that said 30,954.10 acres of
land, conveyed by Bullis and his wife, were not free from
encumbrances; that the same at the time were subject
to prior liens aggregating $159,000, besides interest; that
$144,776.07 of said indebtedness still remain unsatisfied; that
said land was not covered with merchantable timber, but was
waste land from which the salable timber had been removed,
VOL. cxov-39

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

and that a large portion of said land was not adjacent to the
line of said railroad, and the timber thereon not accessible to
be transported thereon; that a large portion of the land so
assumed to be conveyed was not owned by either of the said
defendants, and was not conveyed at all by said deed. All
of which facts the said Bullis and Barse well knew at the time
they made said pretended conveyance, and said conveyance is
in reality false and fraudulent; that by reason of the fraud
and failure of said Bullis and Barse to convey said land free
of liens a great fraud has been committed by them which
will cause irreparable injury to the bondholders, including the
plaintiff, unless the performance of the said agreements and
the conveyance of 30,000 acres of unencumbered timber land
to said trustee are specifically decreed.
The prayer of the complaint is"Wherefore, plaintiff demands judgment that immediate
specific performance by the said defendants Bullis and Barse
and said defendant railroad company of their said agreements
to convey unto the trustee of said defendant railroad company's mortgage, and place under the lien of said instrument
30,000 acres of timber land contiguous or tributary to the
line of railroad of said railroad company, as in said agreements
stated, free of all encumbrance of whatsoever nature prior to
the said mortgage above mentioned; or that said defendants
pay to said trustee, for the security of said bondholders, such
a sum of money as the court shall ascertain to be equivalent
to the value of said lands and real estate, conveyed as aforesaid, which are not in conformity with the terms of said several agreements, and said bonds, and the mortgage or deed of
trust securing the same; and in addition thereto 16,000 acres
of like timber land, in all respects similarly situated, and free
from encumbrance, as security to authorize the issue of
$200,000 of bonds in said agreements specified, and set apart
for the construction of the twenty-four miles of railroad of
said company additional to the forty-six miles above mentioned."

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

And for injunction and general relief.
The case was tried at special term of the New York Supreme
Court. That court dismissed the complaint, holding that as
Bullis and Barse did not own the lands, specific performance
could not be decreed and the case could not be held for the
assessment of damages. This judgment was reversed by the
General Term. 80 Hun, 570. Upon appeal taken by the Allegheny and Kinzua Railroad Company, one of the defendants,
this judgment of the General Term was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals of New York. 151 N. Y. 372. Bullis and Barse,
after the reversal at General Term, went to trial at special term,
and upon the allegation of fraud, findings were made, among
others: That Bullis and Barse pretended and represented to
the said firm of Newcombe & Company that the 30,000 acres
of land were timbered, free and clear of all encumbrances,
and contiguous and adjacent to the line of the defendant railroad company, as the same was then constructed and projected, and that said land was covered by a large quantity of
merchantable timber, which would actually provide said railroad company with at least seventy tons to the acre, for conveyance over said railroad at rates from twenty-five to fifty cents
per ton, in addition to the percentage accruing to said defendant railroad company from divisions of other lines. That
said agreements were entered into at the request of Bullis and
Barse; that engineers were sent from New York to inspect the
timber on the land to be conveyed; they were escorted through
certain timber lands by said Bullis, and these lands were
heavily timbered, and said Bullis stated that said lands were
to be placed under the mortgage to the trustee, and a report
in accordance with this statement was made by the engineers,
and upon this report said Newcombe & Company embarked
in the enterprise and entered into said scheme of consolidation and extension. That the lands so defined and pointed
out were worth from eighteen to twenty dollars an acre. That
Bullis and Barse had stated to Newcombe & Company that
the mortgage was to be a first lien, the lands to be well tim-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U: S.

bered, and contiguous and tributary to said line of railroad;
that said trust mortgage was approved and accepted in the
belief that said representations were true in fact, and that
Bullis and Barse were in good faith performing their said
covenants.
The court further found that the plaintiff was, in fact, deceived by said statements and representations; that said
statements and representations were false; that said agreement was, in fact, fraudulently made with respect to the
lands agreed to be conveyed by Bullis and Barse; that a
great part of the lands included in the deed was not the
property of Bullis, and the value of that owned by him and
not timbered was $13,350, while that apparently covered by
the deed, but not owned by him, was worth $175,502.77, and
a considerable part of that included in the conveyance was
encumbered; that the statements of Bullis and Barse with
respect to said timber lands were false and fraudulent and
made with intent to deceive.
As a conclusion of law, the court decided that it had jurisdiction to proceed in the cause by reason of the fraud practiced by the defendants Bullis and Barse in the premises and
because of the fact that the plaintiff had been deceived by
the fraudulent statements and misrepresentations of the defendants. This decision was affirmed. O'Beirne v. Bullis, 2
App. Div. 545. Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of New
York this judgment was affirmed. 158 N. Y. 466.
It appearing that Bullis and Barse were unable to specifically perform the original agreement, but that they were liable for false representations, judgment was rendered against
them in favor of the Central Trust Company, representing the
bondholders, in the sum of $341,745.65, and for the plaintiff
in the sum of $3,586.40.
Mr. Adelbert Moot, with whom Mr. Charles S. Cary was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The action against Bullis was upon contract, and not an

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
195 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

action for fraud or misappropriation, and, therefore, the discharge in bankruptcy entitles him to have the judgments discharged. The suit based on fraud could not have been main- tained by a single bondholder on behalf of all bondholders.
Gray v. Rothschild, 112 N. Y. 668; O'Brien v. Fitzgerald,6 App.
Div. 509; S. C., 150 N. Y. 572. The construction put on the
complaint by the courts was that it simply set forth a cause
of action in equity for specific performance of contract, and
the then defendant could not demand a jury trial. Untermyer
v. Beinhauer, 105 N. Y. 521; see this case 158 N. Y. 466, 469,
719.
Successful counsel on prior appeals cannot now step into the
shoes of defeated counsel and get the courts to face about and
determine that the action was always an action for fraud and
misappropriation of money, wherein a jury trial is a matter
of right, no matter how many equitable causes of action are
added to it in the complaint. Davis v. Morris, 36 N. Y. 569;
Davidson v. Associates, 71 N. Y. 333; Wheelock v. Lee, 74
N. Y. 495.
The judgment was not one which the bankrupt act excepts
from the general discharge. Burnham v. Pidcock, 58 App.
Div. 273; Hargadine-McKittrickCo. v. Hudson, 111 Fed. Rep.
361; S. C., 122 Fed. Rep. 232; Re Rhutassel, 96 IVed. Rep. 597.
Forsyth v. Vehmeyer, 177 -U. S. 177, distinguished, and see
Collins v. McWalters, 35 Misc. N. Y. 650.
The state courts erred in overlooking the broad distinction
between actions ex delicto and actions ex contractu, and in the
consequent conclusion that "the respondent is not concluded
because he elected to proceed by a suit in equity;" also in its
conclusion that "the back-bone of the action, whether viewed
strictly as one in equity or for damages in lieu of equitable
relief to compensate the bondholders for the misconduct of
the defendants, was the fraud of the latter."
In the complaint allegations of scienter were omitted because they might have made the action one ex delicto and
resulted in plaintiff's defeat. People v. Dennison, 80 N.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

Y. 656; S. C., 84 N. Y. 272; Banks v. Memphis, 84 N. Y.
428.
There is nothing in the allegations about having good title,
or about the land being free from incumbrances, or about the
land being all timbered land. In an action for specific performance brought on such a contract, the court cannot take
oral testimony of oral statements to put into this contract
covenants concerning the title and the incumbrances, and the
amount and character of the timber. Tuthill v. Wilson, 90
N. Y. 427; McConihe v. Fales, 107 N. Y. 408, and cases cited;
Van Werl v. Winston, 115 U. S. 228.
No execution of the judgment was ever issued against the
person nor was any claim ever made that it could be issued.
As to what is ex contractu or ex delicto, see Byxbie v. Wood, 24
N. Y. 607, 611; Ledwith v. McKim, 53 N. Y. 307, 316; Segelken
v. Meyer, 94 N. Y. 473, 484; Brackett v. Griswold, 112 N. Y.
454, 467; Arthur v. Griswold, 55 N. Y. 400; S. C., 68 N. Y.
294; S. C., 80 N. Y. 128; S. C., 89 N. Y. 112; S. C., 112 N. Y.
454; S. C., 128 N. Y. 644, 648; Lorillardv. Clyde, 99 N. Y. 196;
Gould v. Cayuga Co. Bank, 86 N. Y. 75; Kaufman v. Reader,-108
Fed. Rep. 171; Reubens-v. Joel, 13 N. Y. 488; Goulet v. Asseler,
22 N. Y. 225; Disler v. McCauley, 66 App. Div. 42; Colwell v.
Tinker, 169 N. Y. 531; O'Neill v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704.
As to when the plaintiff elects to stand on the contract
instead of the fraud, see Madge v. Ping, 71 N. Y. 608; Neitel v.
Lighthouse, 77 N. Y. 96; Goodwin v. Griffis, 88 N. Y. 638;
Rothschild v. Mack, 115 N. Y. 1; People v. Woods, 121 N. Y.
522, 528; Terry v. Munger, 121 N. Y. 161; Kaufman v. Reader,
108 Fed. Rep. 171.
The contract is promissory in its nature and even if there
was fraud in subsequent transactions that fraud would not
relate back to the original contract on which the action is
founded. Oakley v. Lewin, 47 Barb. 18; Francis v. Railway,
17 Abb. N. C. 1; Sparman v. Keim, 83 N. Y. 245.
The Federal rule is the same. Mo. S. & L. v. Rice, 84 Fed.
Rep. 131; Slaughter v. Col. F. &c., 119 Fed. Rep. 588.

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bullis was entitled to his discharge and the court should
have so ordered. He had been rendered bankrupt himself by
these very transactions long before the judgment was entered
in which he was an innocent party. Brown v. Broach, 52
Mississippi, 536; Stitt v. Little, 63 N. Y. 427; Meyer v. Amidon,
45 N. Y. 169; Orlander v. Spiers, 45 N. Y. 175. The policy
of the law is to free men from liabilities so that they reenter
commercial life.
Mr. Frank Sullivan Smith, with whom Mr. Adrian H.
Joline was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This action involves the construction of section 17 of the
bankrupt act of 1898, 30 Stat. 544, 550, as it stood prior to
the amendment of February 5, 1903. So far as it pertains to
this case, this section is as follows:
"A discharge in bankruptcy shall release the bankrupt from
all of his provable debts, except such as

.

.

.

(2) are

judgments in actions for frauds, or obtaining property by
false pretenses or false representations, or for willful and malicious injuries to the person or prol5erty of another;
(4) were created by his fraud, embezzlement, misappropriation, or defalcation while acting as an officer or in any fiduciary capacity."
In Crawford v. Burke, decided at this term, ante, p. 176,
this court held that subdivision 4 of this act was limited to,
frauds, embezzlements, misappropriations or defalcations while
acting in an official character, or in a fiduciary capacity, and
did not apply to other debts or obligations fraudulently created. The question therefore presented in this case is, was
the judgment against Bullis and Barse as finally reached in
the New York courts one in an" action for fraud" within
the meaning of the act ?

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

It is distinctly charged in the complaint and found in the
judgment that the agreement was fraudulently, made; that
Bullis and Barse falsely and fraudulently pretended that the
large tract of timber land which they were to put under the
mortgage for the security of the bondholders was free from all
encumbrances; that it was near the line of the projected railroads and covered by a large quantity of merchantable timber, when, in fact, as Bullis and Barse well knew, the 30,000
acres of timber land actually mortgaged was not free from
encumbrances but was subject to $159,000 and interest of
prior encumbrances, and that it was waste land from which
the timber had been removed; that the lands were not adjacent to the lines of the railroads; that the timber was not accessible, and that a large portion of the land to be conveyed
was not owned by either of the defendants; that all of these
facts were well known to Bullis and Barse when they made
the false and fraudulent representations aforesaid, and were
relied upon to the prejudice of the bondholders. The New
York courts found that the agents of the New York brokers
attempting to negotiate the bonds, when they went to see the
lands, were shown those not included in the mortgage, and
which were falsely and fraudulently pointed out as being the
intended lands. Under these allegations and proofs the New
York courts have seen fit to render a money judgment, not
for specific performance as upon contract, but for the frauds
charged against the defendants.
As was said of the action and the relief granted, in the opinion of the Appellate Division, 68 App. Div. 508, affirmed in
171 N. Y. 689: "The action for specific performance in the
strictest sense thereof was founded upon the actual positive
fraud of the defendants Bullis and Barse. They had in fact,
in pretended compliance with their agreement, conveyed to
the designated trustee 30,000 acres of land. The plaintiff alleged that the defendants fraudulently included in this conveyance lands not owned by the grantors, and that the bulk
of the tract was not timber land, was encumbered, and was

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
195 U. S.

-

Opinion of the Court.

not adjacent to the railroad lines described.

.

.

The

gist, the intrinsic ingredient of the action, was consequently
the fraudulent scheme, the false representations, of these defendants."
Considerable argument was made by the learned counsel for
the plaintiff in error as to the essential allegations of a pleading where relief for fraud is sought. It is said that there is
no ayerment in the complaint in this case of knowledge or
intent to deceive upon the part of the plaintiff in error, but
it is averred that the representations were falsely and fraudulently made with the intent to further the pecuniary interest
of the plaintiff in error, and were known to be false when
made. Such allegations have frequently been held the equivalent of averments of specific intent. Ixdeed it is difficult to
perceive how a statement falsely and fraudulently made can
be otherwise than intended to deceive. A statement fraudulently made with knovledge of its falsity must necessarily be
intended to deceive. Bank of Montreal v. Thayer, 7 Fed. Rep.
622, and cases cited in the opinion. It is argued that Bullis,
one of the defendants, regarding the case as one for fraud,
demanded a jury trial, which was denied him, and that this
shows the character of the case. But, as appears in the opinion of the New York Court of Appeals, 158 N. Y. 466, 468,
when the. demand for a jury trial was made the defendants
had not set up their inability to perform the contract, but
had taken issue upon the allegations of fraud and misrepresentation. In this attitude of the case it was held that a jury
trial was properly denied.
But it is unnecessary to further consider questions of practice peculiar to the jurisdiction where the judgment was rendered. Whether the complaint sufficiently charged fraud to
warrant the judgment given is not a Federal question. Forsyth v. Vehmeyer, 177 U. S. 177, 180. The question for this
court is whether the judgment rendered by the New York
court is in an action for fraud. If so, it is excepted from the
effect of a discharge in bankruptcy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

We think an inspection of the record as well as the interpretation put upon the pleadings and judgment by the courts
of New York in the various trials and proceedings had, show
that the relief was granted upon the ground of fraud. When
the case was first before the New York Court of Appeals,
Judge Gray, delivering the opinion of that court, said:
"The theory of the complaint and the tendency of the
proof upon the trial were that a fraudulent scheme was devised by Bullis and Barse; having for its object the consolidation of certain railroad properties, owned and controlled by
them, and the issuance of a large number of bonds by the
consolidated company, which should be placed with the public at par through the co6peration of Newcombe & Company,
whose assistance to the scheme, in the negotiation of the
bonds, should be gained by representations and agreements
of such a nature, as to the timber tracts to be furnished as
additional security under the mortgage that the bonds would
appear to be attractive and salable securities, We are not
called upon, at the present time, to pass upon the liability
of Bullis and Barse for the parts they have played in the development and consummation of this scheme, inasmuch as
they have gone back to a new trial; but on the face of this
record that the evidence amply warranted the findings by the
trial court is not to be denied, and it would have justified
the granting of relief to the plaintiff had the case been in a
shape to make that possible." 151 N. Y. 372, 384.
When the case was sent back for trial, after it had been
held that it might be retained for the assessment of damages,
in its conclusions of law the Supreme Court at special term
decided that it " had jurisdiction to proceed in the cause by
reason of the fraud practiced by the defendants Bullis and
Barse in the premises." This manner of exercising jurisdiction by the lower court was expressly affirmed by the Supreme Court at general term, 2 App. Div. 545, and finally by
the Court of Appeals of New York, 158 N. Y. 466. In the
latter case the court said:

BULLIS v. O'3EIRNE.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The theory upon which the decision proceeded was that
they [Bullis and Barse] devised a fraudulent scheme for the
consolidation of certain railroads owned and controlled by
them, issued bonds upon false representations as to the timber lands to be furnished as added security under the mortgage to make the.bonds secure and salable, that upon those
facts the court would have been justified in granting relief to
the plaintiff against them, and that the corporation having
been the instrumentality employed by them, was also liable.
Thus it was that the liability of the appellants was involved
in that decision. We adhere to the principle of our decision
upon that appeal."
It is thus apparent that the courts of New York, in conformity to their own practice, have rendered a judgment
against Bullis and Barse by reason of the fraudulent scheme
found, and because of the fraudulent representations made to
and relied upon by the parties, to whom the relief was
granted. The Federal question is, is such a judgment entitled to be discharged in bankruptcy ? Under the bankrupt
law of 1867 it was provided: "No debt created by the fraud
or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a
public officer, or while acting in any fiduciary character, shall
be discharged by proceedings ifi
bankruptcy; but the debt
may be proved, and the dividend thereon shall be a payment
on account of such debt." Rev. Stat. 5117.
In the law of 1898, for reasons which have been the subject of much diversity of view ifn
the courts, but which were
sufficient in the judgment of Congress in passing the act to
necessitate a change, it is provided, instead of exempting
debts created by fraud from the operation of the discharge,
that only judgments in actions for fraud shall be discharged.
Under this act, (as it was before the passage of the act of
February 5, 1903), claims grounded in fraud will not be discharged unless reduced to judgment, but the essential character of the fraud which is here meant has not been changed.
By the decisions of this court, which are collected in the-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

opinion delivered in Forsythe v. Vehmeyer, supra, it was held,
reviewing the former cases in this court, that, under the act
of 1867, the fraud referred to meant positive fraud, or fraud
in fact involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, and
not implied fraud, which may exist without an imputation of bad faith. "Such a construction of the statute," it
was said in Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704, 709, "is consonant
with equity, and consistent with the object and intention of
Congress in enacting a general law by which the honest citizen
may be relieved from the burden of hopeless insolvency. A
different construction would be inconsistent with the liberal
spirit which pervades the entire bankrupt system." This
language, we think, equally applies to the present case. The
difference is that under the act of 1898 claims for fraud prosecuted to judgment will not be discharged. The reason for
this change, as suggested by Mr. Justice Brown, in delivering
the opinion in Crawford v. Burke, may be that Congress did
not intend to offer any inaucement to change unliquidated
claims into actions for fraud, and therefore limited the exception from the operation of the discharge to such cases only
as had been litigated and reduced to actual judgment. When
such is the case we think a correct interpretation of the law
does not require a close examination into the form of the action to determine whether technically it is one ex delicto or
otherwise, but the real question is, was the relief granted in
the judgment, based upon actual as distinguished from constructive fraud of the bankrupt. If the judgment is thus
founded, whatever the form of the action, it is the intent and
purpose of the law that the bankrupt shall not be discharged
from it, but shall still rest under its obligation, so far as the
bankrupt law is concerned.
As thus interpreted, we think there can be no question that
the judgment rendered in this case was based upon the fraud
of Bullis and Barse. The facts charged and found showed
false and fraudulent representations as to the character of the
property which was to be the security of those who should

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
195 U. S.

621

Opinion of the Court.

purchase the bonds and -resulted in depriving them wrongfully
of valuable rights. These findings were held sufficient in the
state tribunals to warrant relief on the ground of fraud, and
the judgment in this case is, in our opinion, in an action for
fraud within the meaning of the bankrupt law.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of New York is,
therefore,
Affirmed.

