WRIGHT v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 219
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

WRIGHT v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 20. Argued October 25, 1904.-Decided November 14,1904.
The constitution and laws of Georgia do not exempt from taxation shares
of stock of a railroad corporation of another State held by a Georgia
railroad corporation.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Boykin Wright and Mr. John C. Hart,Attorney General
of the State of Georgia, for petitioner.
Mr. Alexander C. King and Mr. Joseph B. Cumming for
respondent.
MR. JusTicE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here on certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, that court having affirmed, per curiam, a decree of
the Circuit Court enjoining the Comptroller General of Georgia
from collecting a tax for the year 1900. 116 Fed. Rep. 669;
117 Fed. Rep. 1007. In view of the conclusion to which we
have been driven, it is enough to say that the question presented is whether shares of stock in the Western Railway of
Alabama, an Alabama corporation, held by the Georgia Railroad and Banking Company, a Georgia corporation, are taxable
as property of the latter, by the State of Georgia, under its
constitution and statutes. The respondents, the plaintiffs
below, are lessees of the Georgia corporation and are bound to
reimburse the latter for the tax, if it has to be paid. Taking
into account the decision in Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730,

OCTOBER TERMf, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

the power of the State to tax the shares is not denied, so far as
the Constitution of the United States is concerned, but it is
argued that the State has not attempted to use that power by
its present constitution and laws.
The constitution of Georgia provides that "all taxation shall
be uniform upon the same class of subjects, and ad valoren on
all property subject to be taxed within the territorial limits of
the authority levying the tax, and shall be levied and collected
under general laws." Code of 1895, § 5883. The words
"within the territorial limits" plainly qualify "subject to be
taxed." The constitution further makes void all laws exempting property from taxation, other than the property
therein enumerated, which does not include this stock. § 5886.
Following these requirements the General Tax Act for 1899 and
1900, Laws of 1898, No. 150, §§ 1, 2, p. 22, authorizes a tax
on all of the taxable property of the State.
The natural inference from the foregoing language is that
the Comptroller General was bound to collect this tax. It is
true that it was said, in a case decided before the date of the
present constitution, that stock in railroads outside the State
was not taxable in Georgia, the reason offered being that such
stock is really but so many shares of the railroad's property,
and that that property is real estate, for the most part at least,
and taxable by the State in which the road lies. Wright v.
Southwestern Railroad, 64 Georgia, 783, 799. This reason is
shown by later decisions to be an insufficient ground for a
claim of constitutional right, and the language of the case
probably does not represent adequately the present opinion
of the Supreme Court, although the passages are cited in the
later of the two following cases. Georgia State Building and
Loan Association v. Savannah, 109 Georgia, 63, 69; Peoples'
National Bank v. Cleveland, 117 Georgia, 908, 913, 915.
If we look to the construction adopted by the Legislature
there is no doubt as to that. The Code, after defining personalty as property movable in its nature, continues "stocks
representing shares in an incorporated company holding lands,

WRIGHT v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. 221
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or a franchise in or over lands, are personalty." §3070. The
act of 1884-1885, touching returns of property for taxation,
No. 457, § 2, p. 30, enacted in terms "that personal property
shall be construed, for purposes of taxation, to include
all stocks and securities, whether in corporations within this
State or in other States, owned by citizens of this State,
unless exempt,".etc. It is argued on one side and denied on
the other that this section was repealed by the Code, but
whether it was or not, it equally may be invoked for the purpose of interpretation at least. We do not understand and
cannot believe that -the Supreme Court of the State would
deny the power of thQ Legislature under the present Constitution to tax stock.
The argument against the tax is that the constitution of
Georgia is satisfied if all the lands and goods in the State are
taxed once, and that the appearance of the same capital in
two forms technically distinct ought not to be laid hold of as
an excuse for two taxes. It is admitted that no such double
taxation is enforced with regard to corporations, of which the
property is taxed, within the State, and it hardly would be
contended that this wise moderation is unconstitutional. It
even has been thought that a similar constitution forbade
taxation of both capital and stock. Burke v. Badlam, 57 California, 594, 601. But, from the point of view of the taxpayer,
it does not matter whether all of his double taxation is done in
one State or half in one and half in another. He suffers the
same injustice. And as manifestly the clearest right to tax
belongs to the State where the railroad has its tracks, every
principle of justice and patriotism would require the same
abstinence from taxing stocks of the railroads of neighboring
States that is practiced with regard to those of the taxing
State-in this case Georgia-itself.
The difficulty with this argument is that the Georgia constitution requires the taxation of all property subject to be
taxed in Georgia. And while it may be that the constitutional
requirement i sufficiently complied with when the land and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

chattels which give value to the stock pay a tax, without another tax on the stock, there is much more difficulty in saying
that the words are satisfied if stock is left untaxed when the
land and chattels cannot be reached. Probably the constitution does not go further than to require one tax on all attainable sources of value, even if it permits more. Burke v. Badlam, 57 California, 594, 601. But it certainly seems intended
to tax once at least all property which can be come at in any
way. San Franciscov. Fry, 63 California, 470. A tax in another State is no tax for the purposes of the State of Georgia.
Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732; Dwight v. Boston, 12
Allen, 316; Seward v. Rising Sun, 79 Indiana, 351; Dyer v.
Osborne, 11 R. I. 321; McKeen v. Northampton, 49 Pa. St.
519.
Putting the case at the lowest, the above cited section of
the constitution was adopted in the interest of the State as a
tax-collector, and authorizes, if it does not require, a tax on
the stock. In pursuance of the constitution, the law of 1898,
under which this tax is demanded, contains the following:
"In addition to the questions now propounded to tax-payers
by the tax-receivers, questions shall be framed by the Comptroller-General to reach all property upon which a tax is imposed by this Act, and especially the following questions:
Thirtieth-How many shares of stock did you own
on the day fixed for the return of property for taxation issued
by corporations located without this State? Thirty-firstWhat was the gross nominal value thereof? Thirty-secondWhat was the fair market value thereof?" Laws of 1898, No.
150, § 16, p. 36. This plainly contemplates that the mandate
of the constitution shall be carried out, and in view of §§ 1, 2,
of the same act, referred to above, and of the facts that legislation could not make the requirement to tax more explicit, and
that the constitution seems to be regarded by the Supreme
Court of the State as self-executing, Georgia State Building &
Loan Association v. Savannah, 109 Georgia, 63, we think it
impossible to escape from the words. The distinction in-

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Syllabus.

tended between stock in corporations of which the property
is taxed by the State and that in corporations otherwise untaxed is emphasized by the thirty-third question: "How many
shares of stocks did you own, . . . issued by corporations
within this State, the capital stock of which or the property
of which is not returned by such corporation for taxation?"
We think the distinction consistent with the Constitution, if
not required by it as held in Burke v. Badlam, cited above.
Decree reversed.

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 107. Argued October 11, 12,1904.-Decided November 14, 1904.
While every intendment is to be made in favor of the lawfulness of the
exercise of municipal power making regulations to- promote the public
health, municipal by-laws and ordinances, and even legislative enactments undertaking to regulate useful business enterprises, are subject
to investigation in the courts with a view to determining whether the law
or ordinance is a lawful exercise of the police power, or whether, under the
guise of enforcing police regulations, there has been an unwarranted and
arbitrary interference with constitutional rights to carry on a lawful
business, make contracts, or use and enjoy property.
While the right to exercise the police power is a continuing one and a business lawful today may in the future become a menace to the public welfare and be required to yield to the public good, the exercise of the police
power is subject to judicial review, and property rights cannot be wrongfully destroyed by arbitrary enactment.
Although an ordinance may be lawful on its face and apparently fair in its
terms, yet if it is enforced in such a manner as to work a discrimination
against a part of a community for no lawful reason, such exercise of power
will be invalidated by the courts. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
A municipal ordinance was adopted in September fixing the limits within
which gasworks might be erected. Thereafter a permit was granted for
the erection of a plant; in November another ordinance was adopted
amending the September ordinance and by which ordinance the territory on which the works were in course of erection and purchased in
reliance upon the September ordinance was excluded. There had been

