HELENA WATER WORKS CO. v. HELENA.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

HELENA WATER WORKS COMPANY v. HELENA.APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 27. Argued October 28,1904.-Decided November 28, 1904.

Nothing is to be taken against the public by implication; under the constitution and laws of Montana a grant by a municipality to a water works
company of the right to erect and maintain water works, which expressly
declares that it is not exclusive, does not raise an implied contract that
the grantor will not provide its own water supply during the term of the
franchise even though by accepting the terms of the franchise the grantee
expressly agrees to furnish water to all the inhabitants of the city who
may desire to contract for the same during that period, and the erection
of its own plant by the city does not, by reason of the depreciation in
value which would result therefrom to the grantee's property, violate a
contract obligation or amount to a taking of property without just compensation or due process of law within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.

THIS case was begun by a bill filed in the Circuit Court of
the United States by the Helena Water Works Company,
successor to the Helena Consolidated Water Company, to restrain the City of Helena from erecting, purchasing or acquiring a water works system for said city, and from acquiring
water for such purpose, except it purchase the plant of the
complainant company, and from incurring any indebtedness
or expenditure of money for such purpose.
The rights in controversy are alleged to result from a contract made by the passage and acdeptance by the company
of a certain ordinance, number 248, passed and approved in
January, 1890.
It is also alleged that the Helena Consolidated Water Company, predecessor of the complainant company, complied with
all the terms of the ordinance, and expended large sums of
money in erecting and maintaining the plant for supplying
water to the inhabitants of the said City of Helena.
It is averred that the said city has adopted certain ordinances
and taken certain proceedings to acquire and build a water

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

195 U. S.

system of its own, and that said ordinances and proceedings
are in violation of the contract rights of the complainant company, guaranteed by section 11 of article 3 of the Constitution
of the State of Montana, and section 10 of article 1 of the
Constitution of the United States, and that the proceedings
of the city in this behalf will amount to taking the property
of the complainant company without just compensation, in
violation of section 14 of article 3 of the Constitution of the
State of Montana, and that its rights and property will be
taken without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
It is further averred that the taxation necessary for the
construction of the city plant is in excess of any that can be
lawfully levied for such purpose.
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts. In
the Circuit Court a decision was rendered in favor of the Water
Works Company. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals that court reversed the decision of the Circuit Court,
and remanded the case with instructions to dismiss the bill.
122 Fed. Rep. 1; 58 C. C. A. 381.
The terms of the ordinance relied upon and so much of the
agreed statement of facts as is necessary to a determination
of the case sufficiently appear in the opinion.
Mr. M. S. Gunn, with whom Mr. B. Platt Carpenter and
Mr. Stephen Carpenter were on the brief, for appellant:
The city has no right to engage in the business of supplying
water in competition with appellant. Walla Walla Water
Case, 172 U. S. 1; Water Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 65. There
was an implied contract not to do so.
In the exercise of its private powers a city is regarded the
same as a private corporation. Dillon, Munic. Corp. ยง 66;
Ill. Trust & Savings Bank v. Arkansas City, 76 Fed. Rep. 271;
Walla Walla Water Case, 172 U. S. 1; People v. Detroit, 28
Michigan, 228; Gas Company v. San Francisco, 9 California,
453; Bailey v. New York, 3 Hill, 531.

HELENA WATER WORKS CO. v. HELENA.
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

A city in providing its inhabitants with a supply of water
exercises its private powers-sometimes termed its business
or proprietary powers. Little Falls Elee. & W. Co. v. Little
Falls, 102 Fed. Rep. 663; Baily v. Philadelphia,39 L. R. A.
837; Western Savings Fund Society v. Philadelphia, 72 Am.
Dec. 730; Lynch v. City of Springfield, 54 N. E. Rep. 871;
Pike's Peak Power Co. v. Colorado Springs, 105 Fed. Rep. 1.
The whole investment is the private property of the city,
as much so as the lands and houses belonging to it. Lynch
v. Springfield, 54 N. E. Rep. 871; Aldrich v. Tripp, 23 Am.
Rep. 434; White v. Meadville, 34 L. R. A. 567.
Although a State is a party to it, a contract will be construed according to the principles which regulate contracts.
Huidekoper's Lessee v. Douglass, 3 Cranch, 1.
A contract resulted from the acceptance of the franchise
and the company is only bound to continue- to furnish water
by virtue of that contract, otherwise it could remove its
mains and abandon its plant.
If, however, there is no provision obligating the company to
operate the plant or road, the grant amounts to a mere license.
State ex rel Knight v. H. P. & L. Co., 22 Montana, 391; President &c. v. Canandaigua, 96 Fed. Rep. 449; San Antonio
Street Ry. Co. v. State, 35 L. R. A. 662; State v. Helena Power
& Light Co., 22 Montana, 391; York & N. Midland Ry. Co. v.
Queen, 1 E. & B. 856; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Washington, 142
U. S. 492; Baily v. Philadelphia,39 L. R. A. 837.
The contract was mutual and the term was for the life of
the franchise until 1910.
The contract to supply all of the inhabitants of the city
with, water precludes the city from becoming a competitor.
The fact that a city cannot establish its own plant except
by acquiring the Water Company's pilant does not depend
on the grant being exclusive. Walla Walla Water Case, 172
U. S. 1.
Provided it may incur the indebtedness therefor the city
may acquire the Water Company's plant although the original
VOL. cxov-25

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

195 U. S.

ordinance does not provide for it. Long Island Water Supply
Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685; Bienville Water Supply Co. v.
Mobile, 95 Fed. Rep. 539; S. C., 175 U. S. 109; Water Works
Co. v. Skaneateles, 184 U. S. 354; Joplin v. S. W. Missouri
Light Co., 191 U. S. 150. In all contracts the intention of
the parties when ascertained will control. Water Works Co.
v. Westerly, 75 Fed. Rep. 181; White v. Meadville, 35 Atl. Rep.
695. What is implied will be as much a part of the contract
as what was expressed. United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55;
Manistee Iron Works v. Shores Lumber Co., 65 N. W. Rep.
863; Canal Co. v. Coal Co., 8 Wall. 288; Churchward v. Reg.,
L. R. 1 Q. B. 195; Coghlan v. Stetson, 19 Fed. Rep. 727; St.
Louis Co. v. Tierney, 5 Colorado, 582.
Although the city of Helena can grant a franchise to another corporation it cannot erect and maintain its own plant.
Mr. Edward Horsky, with whom Mr. E. C. Day and Mr.
R. Lee Word were on the brief, for appellee:
There being no obligation in the franchise to take and purchase the water, there could be no damage or injury in a legal
or equitable sense, and the city should not on that account
be enjoined from bringing in and maintaining its own water
plant. No element of estoppel obtains to prevent appellee
from installing its own plant as it proposes to do and is doing,
in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Montana.
There being no express surrender of the public right of
appellee to put in its own plant, but on the contrary, language
used which expressly reserves it, no obligation can be implied
by which this right has passed and appellee compelled to desist
from bringing in its own plant. The Skaneateles Case, 184
U. S. 354; Sedgwick, Stat. and Const. Law, 338; Charles River
Bridge Co. v. Warren Bridge Co., 11 Peters, 507; Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 358, 380; Leavenworth &c. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 92 U. S. 733; Slidell v. Grandjean, 111 U. S. 412, 437;
Barden v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 609; S. C., 154
U. S. 288.

HELENA WATER WORKS CO. v. HELENA.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The law secures to the city, as we have seen, the right to
put in-its own plant, and has not granted it away. The
mutual and depending conditions under the ordinance are,
the right to use the streets and alleys to maintain the system
and the right to sell the city and inhabitants water, provided
they desire to purchase it, at specified rates. It expressly
also reserves the right to the occupancy of the streets, avenues,
alleys and public grounds with water mains and pipes and
denies the exclusive right to sell and distribute water to the
city and its inhabitants. Wright v. Nagle, 101 U. S. 791;
Walla Walla Water Case, 172 U. S. 1, 18; Bienville Water Co.
v. Mobile, 95 Fed. Rep. 539, 543; S. C., 175 U. S. 110; Iron
Mountain R. Co. v. Memphis, 96 Fed. Rep. 113; University
v. Canandaigua,96 Fed. Rep. 449, 452; Electric & Water Co.
v. Little Falls, 102 Fed. Rep. 667; Skaneateles Water Case,
154; North Springs Water Co. v. Tacoma, 47 L. R. A.
161 U. "S.
214; Thompson-Houston Electric Co. v. Newton, 42 Fed. Rep.
723; State v. Hamilton, 47 Ohio St. 52; Gas L. & Coke Co. v.
Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258; Long Y.Duluth, 49 Minnesota, 280;
Water Works Co. v. Westerly, 80 Fed. Rep. 611.
When the city granted the franchise contained in Ordinance No. 248, it acted as the agent of the State in granting
a franchise vested in the State. New Orleans W. W. Co. v.
Rivers, 115 U. S. 680, 681.
In the construction of all such grants and franchises the
rule is well settled that the grant or privilege must be clearly
conferred and that all doubts and implications will be resolved against the grant or privilege claimed and in favor of
the grantor. Bartholomew v. City of Austin, 85 Fed. Rep.
359, and cases cited; Stein v. Supply Co., 141 U. S.67, 80;
Detroit Citizens' Street Ry. Co. v. Detroit R. R. Co., 171 U. S.
48; Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S.587.
MR. JUsTIcE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
As the ordinance under consideration contains no express

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

stipulation that the city shall not build a plant of its own to
supply water for public and private purposes, and the grant
is expressly declared not to be exclusive of the right to contract with another company, this case, unless it can be distinguished, is ruled by recent decisions of this court. Long
Island Water Supply Company v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685,
696; City of Joplin v. Southwest Missouri Light Co., 191 U. S
150; Skaneateles Water Works Co. v. Skaneateles, 184 U. S. 354.
These cases hold that the grant of the franchise does not of
itself raise an implied contract that the grantor will not do
any act to interfere with the rights granted to the water works
company, and that, in the absence of the grant of an exclusive privilege, none will be implied against the public, but
must arise, if at all, from some specific contract binding upon
the municipality.
As stated by appellant's counsel: "The position taken by
appellants is, that by Ordinance 248 the city has precluded
itself from engaging in the commercial business of furnishing
water to its inhabitants. We maintain that by the contract
contained in this ordinance the Helena Consolidated Water
Company [predecessor of appellant,] for itself, its successors
and assigns, expressly agreed to furnish water to all of the
inhabitants of the city during the term of twenty years, and
that by reason of the contractual obligation thus assumed by
the company there is the implied promise or undertaking on
the part of the city that it will not during such period become
a competitor of appellant." A consideration of this contention requires an examination of the sections of the ordinance
pertinent to a determination of the question:
"SE C. 1. There is hereby granted to the Helena Consoli-

dated Water Company, and its successors and assigns, for the'
full term of twenty years from the passage hereof, the license
and franchise of laying and maintaining water mains and pipes
in and through all of the streets, alleys, avenues and public
grounds of the City of Helena for the purpose of conveying
and distributing water throughout the said city, and for the

HELENA WATER WORKS CO. v. HELENA.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose of selling the same to all persons, bodies or corporations within the said city desiring to purchase the same, and
to said city for fire, sewerage and other purposes, in case said
city desires to purchase the same, subject, however, to the
provisions of this ordinance, hereinafter contained, establishing maximum rates, and generally to have and exercise all the
rights, privileges and franchises necessary to the proper and
successful furnishing of water to the inhabitants of said city
if required; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to give to the said Helena Consolidated
Water Company, or its successors or assigns, the exclusive
right of occupying the streets, avenues, alleys, and public
grounds, of said city with water mains and pipes, or the exclusive right of conveying, distributing or selling the same
throughout the said city, or of furnishing the same to said
city, except as hereinafter set forth.
"SEC. 3. All pipes and mains, including service pipes connected therewith, shall be laid at the depth of five feet below
the established grade, and shall be laid under the supervision
of the street commissioner of said city as to grade and location
in streets; and all repairs and extensions of such pipes and
mains shall be done under the supervision of said street commissioner as to grade and location in streets. Nothing contained herein shall preclude said City of Helena from regrading or changing the grade of any street or streets within said
city, or from the construction or maintenance of sewer work,
or other works or plants of a public nature, or from letting,
giving or granting any franchises, rights or easements to any
person or persons, corporation or corporations, whomsoever,
so long as such franchises, rights and easements do not interfere with the franchises, rights and easements hereby granted.
And that said Helena Consolidated Water Company must and
shall look solely and exclusively to the person or persons,
corporation or corporations, to whom such franchises, rights
and easements have been given by said city for any and all
damages the said Helena Consolidated Water Company may

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

.

195 U. S.

sustain by reason of any interference with any of its pipes,
mains or hydrants, or any exposure of the same caused by
such person or persons, corporation or corporations.
"SEc. 6. The said Helena Consolidated Water Company
shall furnish and provide a full, ample and sufficient supply
of good, pure, wholesome and clear water for the use and wants
of the inhabitants of said city, and to provide said city with
water for fire, sewerage (maintenance and construction) and
for other purposes; and such supply shall be full, ample and
sufficient for the present population of said city, and for the
future population of the said city, as the same may be from
time to time during the full term of five years; and said water
shall be pure, wholesome and free from animal, vegetable or
mineral substances, such as would render it unhealthy or unfit
for domestic use.
"SEC. 26. It is hereby declared and understood to be of the
essence of the agreement and the acceptance hereof that the
said Helena Consolidated Water Company shall, at all times
during the term of such agreement, provide all the inhabitants
of the city, whatever their number may be, with a full, ample
and sufficient supply of good, pure and wholesome and clear
water, and shall convey, distribute and sell to them upon the
terms and conditions herein provided and expressed."
By section 8 the company was required to provide twenty
miles of mains within the limits of the city, and by section 10
the company was required to lay and maintain additional
mains, of such sizes, at such times and upon such streets as
the city council might from time to time direct. Section 17
provides that the company shall not refuse to permit connections to be made by or to sell water to persons offering to
pay for the same.
Section 16 of the ordinance fixes maximum rates for water
to be furnished to the inhabitants of the city. Section 21
makes appropriations for the term of five years from and
after January 1, 1890, of certain sums for hydrants and the
use of water for the benefit of the city. By the first section

HELENA WATER WORKS CO. v. HELENA.
195 U. S.

.391

Opinion of the Court.

of the ordinance, the company is granted the use of the streets,
alleys and avenues and public grounds of the city for the laying
and maintenance of its pipes and mains for the purpose of
conveying water and selling it to those "desiring" to purchase the same, and to the city for fire and other purposes
in case the city "desires to purchase the same."
Certainly, there is nothing in this section that savors of a
contract beyond the obligation imposed upon the company
in consideration of the franchise and privileges granted to
furnish water at certain maximum rates to private persons or
to the city, when such persons or the municipality desire to
purchase the same. When we come to consider section 6 we
find an engagement whereby the obligation of the company
to furnish water to the city is limited to the term of five years,
and in section 21 .we find an appropriation made to cover the
compensation to be paid by the city for the term of five years
for the use of water for public purposes. If these sections can
be construed to amount to a contract between the city and
the company, binding the city to take its entire supply of
water from this company for five years, which would be broken
by the erection or building of a plant by the city to supply
itself with water, it had expired before the beginning of this
suit, and the contract, if it existed after the expiration of the
term named in section 6, must be found in other sections of
the ordinance. The contention is that as by section 26 the
water company was bound during the term of the agreement,
which, it is claimed, is twenty years, to provide all the inhabitants of the city, whatever their number, with a water
supply, this contract will be impaired and its benefits to the
company destroyed if the city should erect an independent
plant of its own. But, in our view, this section must be read
with section 1, which requires the company to furnish water
to such inhabitants of the city as desire to purchase the same,
and there is nothing in this agreement which binds the city
to take water from the company beyond the term of five years,
expressly provided in section 6, and for which, upon specific

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

terms as to prices, an appropriation was made in section 21.
There is nothing in section 26 nor in section 1 undertaking to
bind the inhabitants of the city to take water from the company. The city has not and, of course, could not undertake
to make any contract upon the subject for the private supply
of individuals in the city beyond securing a maximum rate of
charge for water supplied. The engagement for their benefit
requires the company during the term of the franchise to
supply water at not exceeding certain maximum prices, which
were fixed by the ordinance. Properly construed, we think
this ordinance shows an agreement upon the part of the company to furnish water to the inhabitants of the city at not
exceeding certain maximum rates, and to the city itself, upon
terms to be agreed upon, made definite, as far as the city was
concerned, for the term of five years. As thus interpreted,
we do not find anything in this contract that prevents the city,
certainly after the expiration of five years, from constructing
its own plant. It has not specifically bound itself not so to do,
and, as has been frequently held in this court, nothing is to
be taken against the public by implication. Hamilton Gas
Light & Coke Co. v. Hamilton, 146 U. S. 258; Long Island Water
Supply Company v. Brooklyn, supra, and cases cited in the
opinion. Had it been intended to exclude the city from
exercising the privilege of establishing its own plant, such
purpose could have been expressed by apt words, as was the
case in Walla Walla City v. Walla Walla Water Company, 172
U. S. 1. It is doubtless true that the erection of such a plant
by the city will render the property of the water company less
valuable and, perhaps, unprofitable, but if it was intended to
prevent such competition, a right to do so should not have
been left to argument or implication, but made certain by the
terms of the contract. The right to tax within certain limits
to procure a supply of water for the municipality, which shall
be owned and controlled by the city, is authorized by the
Constitution of Montana, article 13, ยง 6. Paragraph 4800 of
the Political Code of Montana provides for the carrying into

HELENA WATER WORKS CO. v. HELENA.
195 U. S.

393

Opinion of the Court.

effect of this constitutional power to tax for a system of water
works to be owned and controlled by the municipality. The
feature of the law requiring the purchase of existing water
works instead of building an independent plant by the city
was held unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Montana
in Helena Consolidated Water Company v. Steele, 20 Montana, 1.
The privilege of building other works was, in the absence of
some binding contract forbidding the exercise of the power,
clearly within the city's constitutional and statutory rights.
We cannot find that the city has precluded itself from exercising this right by anything shown in this case. This conclusion renders it unnecessary to decide whether the city's right to construct a plant of its own was expressly saved in section 3
of the ordinance reserving the right to construct and maintain
"sewer work, or other works of a public nature."
This action is also brought by the water company as a
taxpayer, and it is claimed that the city had no right to acquire a water supply and -build its water works except by acquiring the plant of the company.
In the findings of fact it was expressly stipulated:
"That the City of Helena contemplates and intends to do
all acts and things necessary to secure a water supply and
system to be owned and controlled by the said City of Helena,
and that it contemplates and intends to raise funds and revenue
therefor in the manner provided by law, and to use the same
for said purpose, and to furnish and supply the City of Helena
and the inhabitants thereof with water from its said plant,
and that it contemplates and intends to purchase and secure
a sufficient quantity of water for said purpose, and that complainant does not obtain any of its water supply from either
Beaver, McClellen or Prickly Pear Creeks.
"That the Ordinances Nos. 467 and 483, mentioned in
paragraph 27 of the complainant's bill of complaint, were duly
passed and adopted and approved, and that unless said defendant, the City of Helena, is enjoined and restrained from
acquiring a water supply, plant and system, it will proceed

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

to acquire the same under said ordinances or such others as
are necessary for said purpose, as hereinbefore stated, and will
engage in furnishing the said defendant, the City of Helena,
and its inhabitants, with water, suitable and proper for its
use, and that to do so will depreciate the value of complainant's franchise and property, as stated in paragraph 28 of the
complaint, but that no injury of which complainant can complain will result therefrom if defendant city has the rights
claimed by it. .

.

.

That the revenue for said purpose

will be created and raised by borrowing money or raising funds
within the limit of indebtedness, as heretofore or hereafter to
be extended, in accordance with the requirements of the constitution and provisions of the statutes of the State of Montana
in that behalf, unless it shall be adjudged that it has no legal
or equitable right to do so, on account of the facts and admission hereinbefore stated and made."
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that by this
stipulation the controversy was narrowed to the question of
the right of the city to erect and maintain an independent
plant of its own in view of the alleged contract rights of the
complainant. For that purpose, if it has the right so to do,.
it is conceded "it contemplates to raise funds and revenues
therefor in the manner provided by law," and will raise revenues
within the limits of indebtedness authorized by the Constitution and laws of Montana. This concession renders it unnecessary to notice the allegations of the complaint as to the right
to tax for the purpose of erecting such works, or the alleged
invalidity of any method of acquiring water works for the city
except by purchase from the complainant.
Judgment affirmed.

