BRADLEY v. LIGHTCAP.
195 U.,S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bradley v. Lightcap, 202 Illinois, 154, April 24, 1903. Three
of the members of the court dissented. The opinion of the
Supreme Court proceeded on the strength of the decisions in
186 Illinois, 510, and 201 Illinois, 511.
As we have reversed the judgment in the prior case, this
case must take the same course.
Decree reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with our opinion in No. 243.

BRADLEY v. LIGHTCAP.

No. 3.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 343. Argued April 21,1904.-Decided Bray 31,1904.

A case does not necessarily arise under the constitution or laws of the
United States every time a writ of error would lie to the judgment of the
state court.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John S. Miller, with whom Mr. Merritt Starr and Mr.
W. W. Hammond were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George W. Wall and Mr. E. A. Wallace, with whom
Mr. Lyman Lacey, Jr., was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

This was a bill filed by Mrs. Bradley, to quiet her title to
the premises in controversy in No. 243, and for appropriate
relief, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois, and was dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
May 22, 1902.

OCTOBER TERM, 1903.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

The Circuit Court, Grosscup, J., was of opinion that the
statute of 1872 was not one of limitation in the same sense as
a statute limiting the time within which foreclosure proceedings must be brought; that the failure to take out the deed
within five years raised no presumption that the mortgage
debt had been paid; and that the act was, in effect, simply a
limitation on the time within which the foreclosure decree
could be availed of, and did not operate to forfeit the mortgagee's title to the mortgagor if the deed were not taken out.
But he thought that Mrs. Bradley's title by possession as
mortgagee had not been held by the state court to have been
cut off by the statute of 1872, as the record in that court stood,
as reported in 186 Illinois, 510, and that, therefore, the constitutional question did not arise. If, however, the Supreme
Court had ruled that her title as mortgagee in possession had
been so destroyed, the remedy was by writ of error from the
Supreme Court of the United States. The decision in 201
Illinois, 511, was rendered February 18, 1903. Taking into
view the controversy as presented in the two other cases, and
that the judgments in those cases are now directed to be reversed, and bearing in mind that a case does not necessarily
arise under the Constitution or laws of the United States
every time a writ of error would lie to the judgment of the
state court, the decree of the Circuit Court will be
Affirmed.

