OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

By section 2 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, the costs
and fees in the Supreme Court are made the costs and fees in
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and the latter courts are empowered to establish all rules and regulations for the conduct
of the business of the court.
And it appears that on November 21, 1898, Rule 16 of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit was so amended
as to read that "at the time of filing the record the plaintiff in
error or appellant shall deposit with the clerk the sum of
thirty-fire dollars as security for costs, except in cases in which
the proper showing is made and an order of this court is entered thereon allowing the cause to proceed in forma pauperis."
But the exception must be assumed to have been framed
on a construction of the act of July 20, 1892, which we have
been constrained to hold it does not bear, and the exception
falls in the absence of a statute authorizing such an order.
We need not advert to the distinction between costs and
fees, but it should be noted that the power of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, in respect of the distribution of costs or in
dealing with its officers in respect of their fees, under special
circumstances, is not here involved.
Both questions answered in the negative.

NEW v. OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 226.

Argued October 14, 17, 1904--Decided November 28, 1904.

Writs of error from this court to the Supreme Court of Oklahoma in capital
cases do not lie.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Hugh T. Taggart for plaintiff in error:
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma is a court of the United

NEW v. OKLAHOMA.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States within § 6, act of February 6, 1889, 25 Stat. 655. See
Organic Act of Oklahoma, May 2, 1890, § 2; Moss v. United
States, 32 Wash. Law Rep. 342; McAllister v. United States,
141 U. S.174; Cross v. United States, 145 U. S.571. Jurisdiction of this court does not necessarily depend on the act of
1889. See §§ 9, 13, 28, Organic Act, supra, and §§ 4, 15,
Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891; and assignments in 139 U. S.
707. This court entertained jurisdiction in Queenan v. Oklahoma, 190 U. S.548.
Mr. P. C. Simons, Attorney General of the Territory of
Oklahoma, for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

John T. New was tried on an indictment for murder in the
District Court of Washita County, Oklahoma Territory, found
guilty, and his punishment fixed by the jury at imprisonment
for life.
The Crimes Act of Oklahoma provided that every person
convicted of murder should "suffer death or imprisonment at
hard labor in the Territorial penitentiary for life, at the discretion of the jury." Stat. Okla. 1893, p. 456, c. 25, § 13;
Stat. Okla. 1890, c. 25, Art, 17, § 13.
Judgment was entered on the verdict and New was sentenced accordingly. He carried the case to the Supreme Court
of the Territory and the judgment was affirmed. This writ
of error was then allowed, and the objection is made that this
court has no jurisdiction to review the judgments of the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma in criminal cases for want of
statutory provision to that effect.
By the "Act to provide a temporary government for the
Territory of Oklahoma," approved May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81,
c. 182, "the legislative power and authority of said Territory"
was vested in the governor and legislative assembly, and the
power extended "to all rightful subjects of legislation not

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United
States."
Section 28 provided: "That the Constitution and all the
laws of the United States not locally inapplicable shall, except
so far as modified by this act, have the same force and effect
as elsewhere within the United States; and all acts and parts
of acts in conflict with the provisions of this act are as to their
effect in said Territory of Oklahoma hereby repealed;" and
by a proviso section 1850 of the Revised Statutes, requiring
the submission of territorial laws to Congress, was made inapplicable to Oklahoma.
By section 11 certain enumerated "chapters and provisions
of the Compiled Laws of the State of Nebraska, in force November first, eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, in so far as
they are locally applicable, and not in conflict with the laws
of the United States or with this act, are hereby extended to
and put in force in the Territory of Oklahoma until after the
adjournment of the first session of the legislative assembly
of said Territory, namely:

. . . and of part three thereof,

entitled 'Criminal Code.' "
This temporary provision was supplanted some months subsequently by laws passed by the Oklahoma legislative assembly. Statutes, Oklahoma, 1890. These statutes were
elaborate and comprehensive, and embraced a crimes act,
with due provision for procedure.
Section 9 of the organic act reads as follows:
"SEc. 9. That the judicial power of said Territory shall be

vested in a supreme court, district courts, probate courts, and
justices of the peace. .
" .
.and
the' said supreme and district courts, respectively, shall possess chancery as well as common-law jurisdiction and authority for redress of all wrongs committed
against the Constitution or laws of the United States or of the
Territory affecting persons or property.

.

.

.

Writs of

error, bills of exception, and appeals shall be allowed in all
cases from the final decisions of said district courts to the

NEW v OKLAHOMA.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

supreme court under such regulations as may be prescribed
by law, but in no case removed to the supreme court shall
trial by jury be allowed in said court. Writs of error and appeals from the final decisions of said supreme court shall be
allowed and may be taken to the Supreme Court of the United
States in the same manner and under the same regulations
as from the Circuit Courts of the United States, where the
value of the property or the amount in controversy, to be
ascertained by oath or affirm~iation of either party or other
competent witness shall exceed five thousand dollars;
So far as review by this court is concerned, this is the usual
provision, and is limited to civil cases. We are then brought
to inquire whether any other statute may be invoked to sustain our jurisdiction.
Section 5 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
827, c. 517, provided that appeals or writs of error might be
taken from the District and Circuit Courts directly to this
court in certain enumerated classes of cases, among which
were "cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous
crime." By amendment the words "or otherwise infamous"
were stricken out, and it was declared that cases of convictions
for an infamous crime not capital might be carried to the
Circuit Courts of Appeals. 29 Stat. 492, c. 68.
By section 6, the judgments of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are made final in cases arising under the criminal laws.
And section 15 provides: "That the Circuit Court of Appeals in cases in which the judgments of the Circuit Courts of
Appeal are made final by this act shall have the same appellate
jurisdiction, by writ of error or appeal, to review the judgments, orders, and decrees of the Supieme Courts of the several Territories as by this act they may have to review the
judgments, orders, and decrees of the District Court and Circuit Courts; and for that purpose the several Territories shall,
by orders of the Supreme Court, to be made from time to time,
be assigned to particular circuits."
But the case before us is a capital case and not included in
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

the criminal cases to which the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals extends. It is suggested that, as it follows
that if this court has no jurisdiction, convictions for crimes not
capital are reviewable on a second appeal, while convictions
for a capital crime are not, this involves an absurdity, hardship or injustice, presumably not intended. We held, however, in Folsom v. United States, 160 U. S. 121, that the intention was plain and that the statute must be taken as it
read.
There remains the act of February 6, 1889, 25 Stat. 655,
c. 113, by the sixth section of which it was provided that "in
all cases of conviction of crime, the punishment of which
provided by law is death, tried before any court of the United
States, the final judgment of such court against the respondent
shall, upon the application of the respondent, be reexamined,
reversed, or affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United
States upon a writ of error." As to this, however, it was ruled
in Cross v. United States, 145 U. S. 571, that, in view of the
terms of the whole section, the allowance of a writ of error
to any appellate tribunal was not contemplated, but merely
to review the judgment of the trial court.
It is thus seen- that there is no statute giving appellate
jurisdiction to this court over the judgments of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma in capital cases.
Reference is made to Queenan v. Oklahoma, 190 U. S. 548,
in which we entertained jurisdiction in the absence of any
suggestion as to the want of it. United States v. Simms, 1
Cranch, 252, is an instance of similar inadvertance, and when
cited in United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159, 172, Chief Justice Marshall disposed of it in these words: "No question was
made, in that case, as to the jurisdiction. It passed sub
silentio, and the court does not consider itself as bound by
that case."
Writ of error dismissed.

