BIRKETT v. COLUMBIA BANK.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

monopoly of the business, and by combination among themselves exclude all others' from rendering pilotage services, is
also but a denial of the authority of the State to regulate,
since if the State has the power to regulate, and in so doing to
appoint and commission, those who are to perform pilotage
services, it must follow that no monopoly or combination in a
legal sense can arise from the fact that the duly authorized
agents of the State are alone allowed to perform the duties
devolving upon them by law. When the propositions just
referred to are considered in their ultimate aspect they amount
simply to the contention, not that the Texas laws are void
for want of power, but that they are unwise. If an analysis
of those laws justified such conclusion-which we do not at
all imply is the case-the remedy is in Congress, in whom the
ultimate authority on the subject is vested, and cannot be
judicially afforded by denying the power of the State to exercise its authority over a subject concerning which it has
plenary power until Congress has seen fit to act in the premises.
Affirmed.

BIRK[T=

v. COLU-MBIA BANK.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 26. Argued October 28,1904.-fDecided November 28, 104.

Actual knowledge of the proceedings contemplated by section 17 of the
Bankruptcy Act is a knowledge in time to avail a creditor of the benefits
of the law and to give him an equal opportunity with other creditors, and
not a knowledge that may come so late as to deprive him of participation
in the administration of the affairs of the estate or to deprive him of
dividends.

THIS is an action on a promissory note for $750. The defense is discharge in bankruptcy. The making of the note

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

was admitted, and the only question presented is the effect
of the discharge.
The facts as found by the court are: Plaintiff in error and
one Calvin Russell, who died before the commencement of this
action, were partners doing business under the name of Russell
& Birkett, and in that name made and delivered to the Manhattan Railway Advertising Company a promissory note for
$750. The latter company endorsed the note to defendant in
error, of which Russell & Birkett had knowledge before its
maturity. On April 13, 1899, the firm of Russell & Birkett
and plaintiff in error, upon their own petition, were adjudicated bankrupts in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of New York, and were discharged September 12, 1899. The claim of defendant in error was not scheduled, either as a debt of the firm or of plaintiff in error, in
time for proof and allowance with the name of the defendant
in error, though defendant in error was known at the time of
ffling the schedules to be the owner and holder thereof by

plaintiff in error, and that defendant in error had no notice or
actual knowledge or other knowledge of the proceedings in
bankruptcy prior to the discharge of the bankrupts. No notice of the proceedings in bankruptcy was at any time given
to defendant in error by, or by the direction of, the bankrupts
or either of them. It was decided that the claim of defendant in error was not barred by the discharge in bankruptcy,
and judgment was directed for defendant in error.
Mr. John Murray Downs, with whom Mr. Thomas Carmody
and Mr. Robert G. Scherer were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
No duty is imposed by the Bankruptcy Law upon the bankrupt to give notice to his creditors. That duty is imposed on
the referee.
Pleading the discharge in bankruptcy and proving the same
established prima facie a complete defense to this action.
The bank's claim existed and was a provable debt against the

BIRKETT v. COLUMBIA BANK.
195 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

estate; the bank had actual knowledge of the proceeding in
time to prove its claim and have it allowed, and the presumption is that it was barred by the discharge. The burden of
proof was with the bank to show not only that it had no notice
of the proceeding in bankruptcy, but that it had no actual
knowledge. Fider v. Manheim, 81 N. W. Rep. 2; Jones v.
Walter, 74 S. W. Rep. (Ky.) 249; Zimmerman v. Ketchum, 71
Pac. Rep. (Kan.) 264; Smith v. Wheeler, 55 App. Div. 170;
Lamb v. Brown, 14 Fed. Cas. 988; S. C., 12 N. B. R. 522;
Carey v. Mayor, 79 Fed. Rep. 926; White v. Howe, 29 Fed.
Cas. 1019; S. C., 3 McLean, 291; Lathrop v. Stewart, 14 Fed.
Cas. 1185; S. C., 5 McLean, 167.
The burden was not with the plaintiff in error; the bank
was not within the exceptions in ยง 17. Jarecki v. McElwaine,
107 Fed. Rep. 249.
The discharge in bankruptcy was properly pleaded. N. Y.
Code Civ. Pro. ยง 532; Livingston v. Oaksmith, 13 Abb. 183;
Schermerhornv. Talman, 14 N. Y. 93, 125; Harrison v. Lourie,
49 How. Pr. 124, 127; Stevens v. King, 16 App. Div. 377; McCormick v. Pickering, 4 N. Y. 276; Morse v. Cloyes, 11 Barb.
100; Small v. Graves, 7 Barb. 577; Raye v. Lapham, 27
Ohio St. 452; S. C., 15 B. R. 508; Hall v. Robins, 61 Barb.
33.
A bankruptcy proceeding is in the nature of a proceeding
in rem before a court of record having jurisdiction and entitled
to all presumptions as to its legality and binding effect. Shawhan v. Wherritt, 7 How. 627; In re Watts, 190 U. S. 32. It is a
proceeding practically to distribute the property of a bankrupt for the benefit of its creditors and the creditors have a
direct representative in the proceedings, the trustee in bankruptcy.
Mr. Julius J. Frank for defendant in error:
The writ should be dismissed or the judgment affirmed
because of failure to transmit any assignment of errors with
the record. Rev. Stat. ยง 997. As no "plain error" appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

195 U. S.

therein the uniform practice of the court should be followed
in this case. Lucas v. Brook, 18 Wall. 436; Portland Co. v.
United States, 15 Wall. 1; Ryan v. Koch, 17 Wall. 19; Treat v.
Jemison, 20 Wall. 652; Maxwell v. Stewart, 21 Wall. 71; Scholey
v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; Rowe v. Phelps, 152 U. S. 87. United
States v. Pena, 175 U. S. 500, distinguished.
The cause of action was not barred by the discharge. The
bank's name and address did not appear in the schedule of the
bankrupt and no notice was sent to it. Loveland on Bankruptcy, 98 note n, subd. a, ยง 58 of the act. There is proof to
support a finding that no notice was sent by the referee. The
court has power to so find. Ogden v. Alexander, 140 N. Y.
356, 362. Notice too late to be availed of is not a bar. Stuart
v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183, 191; Montana Co. v. St. Louis Co.,
152 U. S. 160, 169.
The circumstances of omitting the name from the schedules
warrant the finding of willful and even fraudulent omission
of plaintiff's name from the schedules, which, even under the
act of 1867, would have "prevented the operation of the discharge on the claim held by the omitted creditor." Poillon
v. Lawrence, 77 N. Y. 207; Batchelder v. Low, 8 Natl. Bank.
Reg. 571; Matter of Kalish, Deady, 575; Tyrrel v. Hammerstein, 35 Misc. 505.
The discharge was insufficiently pleaded, the facts proven
did not sustain the defence; where a party claims a statute as
a release from an otherwise valid debt, he will he held to strict
pleading; if the statute contains an exception, he must strictly
plead both the statute and the facts negativing the exception.
1 Kent Com. 463; Harris v. White, 81 N. Y. 532; Jones v.
Axen, 1 Ld. Raym. 119; Spieres v. Parker, 1 Term R. 141;
Bouvier's Dictionary, "Exception"; Sedgwick, Constr. St. &
Const. Law, 50; Potter's Dwarris on Statutes, 119; Rowell v.
Janvrin, 151 N. Y. 60.
The burden of proof throughout was on the defendant
below. N. Y. Code Civ. Pro. 514, 516, 522, 532, and he did
not sustain it. There was no request to find or any finding

B]RKETT v. COLUMBIA BANK.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the bank had notice in time to prove its claim. Koehler
v. Hughes, 148 N. Y. 507, 515; Loan Assn. v. Ebaugh, 185
U. S. 114, 121; Hawley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment was successively confirmed by the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals. 174
N. Y. 112. Thereupon judgment was entered in the Supreme
Court in accordance with the direction of the Court of Appeals. This writ of error was then sued out.
Section 7 of the Bankrupt Law of 1898 devolves a number
of duties upon the bankrupt, all directed to the purpose of a
full and unreserved exposition of his affairs, property and
creditors. Among his duties he is required to "prepare, make
oath to, and file in the court, within ten days . . . a
schedule of his property, showing the amount and kind of
property, the location thereof, its money value in detail, and
a list of his creditors, showing their residences, if known, if
unknown, that fact to be stated, the amounts due each of
them, the consideration thereof, the security held by them,
if any, and a claim for such exemptions as he may be entitled
to, all in triplicate, one copy of each for the clerk, one for the
. " To the neglect of
referee, and one for the trustee.
this duty the law attaches a punitive consequence. Section 17 provides: "A discharge in bankruptcy shall release a
bankrupt of all of his provable debts, except such as
have not been duly scheduled in time for proof and allowance,
with the name of the creditor if known to the bankrupt, unless such creditor had notice or actual knowledge of the pro"
ceedings in bankruptcy.
But plaintiff in error urges that defendant in error did have
actual knowledge 6f the proceedings in bankruptcy, and that
Congress contemplated that there might be an intentional or
inadvertent omission of the names of creditors from the schedule of debts, and provided against it by other provisions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

law, especially by that which makes it the duty of the referee
to give notice to creditors (sec. 38), and by that which imposes
the duty-on the bankrupt to appear at the meeting of creditors
for examination.
The finding of the trial court is that defendant "'had no
notice or actual knowledge, or other knowledge, of said proceedings in bankruptcy prior to the discharge of the bankrupt
therein." This is made more definite as to time by the Court
of Appeals. Defendant in error, upon making an inquiry by
letter November 6, 1899, about Russell & Birkett, was informed that they had gone through bankruptcy, and subsequently, (November 17), the Northern District was given as
the district of the proceedings. The discharge was September 12, 1899. Knowledge, therefore, it is contended, came to
defendant in error in time to prove its claim (section 65), and
to move to revoke the discharge of the bankrupt (section 15).
It is hence argued that defendant in error must he held to
have had "actual knowledge of the proceedings in bankruptcy," as those words of section 17 must be construed. We
do not think so, nor is that construction supported by -the
other provisions of the law urged by plaintiff in error. Actual
;knowledge of the proceedings contemplated by the section
is a knowledge in time to avail a creditor of the benefits of the
law-in time to give him an equal opportunity with other
creditors-not a knowledge that may come so late as to deprive him of participation in the administration of the affairs
of the estate or to deprive him of dividends (section 65). The
provisions of the law relied upon by plaintiff in error are for
the benefit of creditors, not of the debtor. That the law
should give a creditor remedies against the estate of a bankrupt, notwithstanding the neglect or default of the bankrupt,
is natural. The law would be, indeed, defective without them.
It would also be defective if it permitted the bankrupt to experiment with it-to so manage and use its provisions as to
conceal his estate, deceive or keep his creditors in ignorance
of his proceeding without penalty to him. It is easy to see

SEATTLE v. KELLEHER.
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

what results such looseness would permit-what preference
could be accomplished and covered by it.
Judgment affirmed.

THE CITY OF SEATTLE v. KELLEHER.
APPEAL FROM THE PIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 29. Argued October 28, 1904.-Decided November 28,1904.
An assessment on lands for the entire expense of opening a street levied
under a front foot assessment authorized by statute is not necessarily
void under the Fourteenth Amendment because levied after the work
was completed, or because at the time the work was ordered the municipality had power, under statutes repealed after the completion of the
work and before the assessment was made, to include a portion of the
expense in the general taxes and to levy the assessment on a valuation
basis under which a smaller amount would have been assessed against
these lands.
Taxation, whether general or special, is not subject to the rules applicable
to a vendor's lien and its enforcement against a bona fide purchaser for
value, and it is for one purchasing lands after a public improvement has
been completed to inquire whether it has been paid for, and the same
rules as to the enforcement of the assessment applicable to the former
owners are applicable to him.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Mitchell Gilliam, with whom Mr. Walter S. Fulton was
on the brief, for appellant:
The intention to dedicate and the acceptance of the city
appear and constituted a valid common law dedication.
Elliott on Roads and Streets, Ch.V, 85; Dillon on Mun. Corp.,
4th ed., vol. 2, 737; 5 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 395; New
Orleans v. United States, 10 Peters, 662; City of Cincinnati v.
White, 6 Peters, 431; Godfrey v. City of Alton, 12 Illinois, 29;
Surgeant v. Bank, 4 McLean, 339. An incomplete statutory
dedication may become one at common law by acceptance by

