CLIFF v. UNITED STATES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

CLIFF v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No.19. Argued December 2, 1903.-Decided October 24, 1904.
In enumerating the ingredients of oleomargarine in section 2 of the act of
1886 as amended in 1902, Congress included not only those substances
which, entering into its composition make it' suitable for food and form
its body but also other ingredients used only for coloring, the purpose
being to prevent excluding from the operation of the statute anything
in its nature oleomargarine by reason of the addition of a substance not
really an ingredient, but serving substantially only for coloring the
product yellow.
Under sections 2 and 8 of the act as amended, oleomargarine colored yellow
by a small amount of palm oil serving no purpose other than coloration
is artificially colored and is subject to the tax of ten cents a pound and
does not come.within the proviso to section 8 making the tax a quarter
of a cent a pound when the oleomargarine is free from artificial coloration that causes it to look like butter of any shade of yellow.
One claiming that his oleomargarine is not subject to the higher tax prescribed by section 8 of the oleomargarine act must make it clear that
his product is clearly within the scope of the exception stated in the
proviso.
The finding of a court upon a question of Jact is as conclusive as the
verdict of a jury and when supported by testimony admitted without
objection will not bedisturbed by this court.

THE

facts are stafed in the opinion of the court.

Mr. William D. Guthrie and Mr. Miller Outcalt, with whom
Mr. Charles E. Prior,Mr. FrancisJ. Kearful, Mr. Delavan B.
Cole, Mr. Charles C. Carnahanand Mr. JohnMaynard Harlan
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Solicitor General Hoyt for the United States.1
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

August Cliff was convicted in the District Court of the
1 For abstract of arguments see McCray v. United States argued simulta-

neously with this case, ante, p. 30.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

United States for the Northern District of Illinois of a violation of section 11 of the act of August 2, 1886, 24 Stat. 209,
amended May 9, 1902, 32 Stat. 193. A judgment for fifty
dollars, as prescribed by the section, was entered with an order
for collection by execution. That judgment was brought directly to this court by writ of error. The constitutionality
of the oleomargarine legislation and the right to waive a trial
by jury in petty criminal offenses were affirmed in McCray
v. United States, ante, p. 27, and Schick v. United States, ante,
p. 65. Nothing need be added to the opinions in those cases
on these questions.
There is in this case a further question. Section 2 reads:
"SEc. 2. That for the purposes of this act certain manu-

factured substances, certain extracts, and certain mixtures
and compounds, including such mixtures and compounds with
butter, shall be known and designated as 'oleomargarine,'
namely: All substances heretofore known as oleomargarine,
oleo, oleomargarine-oil, butterine, lardine, suine and neutral;
all mixtures and compounds of oleomargarine, oleo, oleomargarine-oil, butterine, lardine, suine and neutral; all lard extracts and tallow extracts; and all mixtures and compounds of
tallow, beef-fat, suet, lard, lard-oil, vegetable-oil, annotto,
and other coloring matter, intestinal fat, and offal fat made in
imitation or semblance of butter, or, when so made, calculated
or intended to be sold as butter or for butter."
In section 8 is this provision:
"SEc. 8. That upon oleomargarine which shall be manu-

factured and sold, or removed for consumption or use, there
shall be assessed and collected a tax of ten cents per pound,
to be paid by the manufacturer thereof; and any fractional
part of a pound in a package shall be taxed as a pound: Provided, When oleomargarine is free from artificial coloration
that causes it to look like butter of any shade of yellow said
tax shall be one-fourth of one cent per pound."
By section 14 the Commissioner of Internal Revenue "is
authorized to decide what substances, extracts, mixtures or

CLIFF v. UNITED STATES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

compounds which may be submitted for his inspection in
contested cases are to be taxed under this act; and his decision
in matters of taxation under this act shall be final. The Commissioner may also decide whether any substance made in
imitation or semblance of butter, and intended for human
consumption, contains ingredients deleterious to the public
health."
Defendant was charged with having knowingly purchased
and received for sale "certain oleomargarine which had not
been stamped according to law-that is to say, ten pounds
of a mixture and compound composed, as he the said August
Cliff well knew, of oleo oil, neutral lard, cotton-seed oil, milk,
common salt and palm oil (which said last-named ingredient,'
to wit, palm oil, produced an artificial coloration in the said
oleomargarine that caused it to look like butter of a shade of
yellow), which said oleomargarine had then lately before, to
wit, on the day aforesaid, been manufactured at Chicago
aforesaid by William J. Moxley."
It was shown that the tax of ten cents per pound had not
been paid, that the package contained ten pounds, that its
ingredients and their proportions were: Three pounds of oleo
oil; one pound and twelve ounces of neutral lard; two pounds
of cotton-seed oil; one pound and fourteen and a half ounces
of milk; one pound and four ounces of salt; one and one half
ounces of palm oil. In other words, out of one hundred and
sixty ounces, only one and one half ounces were palm oil.
There was introduced in evidence a ruling of the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue as follows:
"This office rules that where so minute and infinitesimal a
quantity of a vegetable oil is used in the manufacture of oleomargarine as is proposed to be used of palm oil, and through
its use the finished product looks like butter of any shade of
yellow, it cannot be considered that the oil is used with the
purpose or intention of being a bona fide constituent part or
element of the product, but is used solely for the purpose of
producing or imparting a yellow oor to the oleo margarine
VOL. oxov--11

OCTOBER TERM,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

and, therefore, that the oleomargarine so colored is not free
from artificial coloration and becomes subject to the tax of
ten cents per pound."
Now the contention is that Congress having by section 2
named the possible ingredients of oleomargarine, the coloring
given to a compound of some or all by the use of one of the
named ingredients is a natural coloring, and not an artificial
coloration subjecting to a tax of ten cents per pound. In
order that the precise contention may be understood we quote
the following from one of the briefs filed for plaintiff in error:
"By parity of reasoning, when one is speaking of oleomargarine, natural coloration means a coloration due to a natural
ingredient of oleomargarine, and to find out whether a certain
ingredient is a natural ingredient of oleomargarine, we turn
to the statute which defines the nature of oleomargarine. If
the color-giving ingredient be a natural, that is, a statutory
ingredient of oleomargarine, then how can it be truly said
that the color caused by such ingredient is 'artificial coloration' merely because the quantity of such ingredient used is
small or even minute, and the purpose of its use is to impart
the desired color? Howsoever minute may be the quantity
of palm oil used, it is none the less a vegetable oil, a statutory,
or, so to speak, a natural ingredient of oleomargarine, and
displaces in the finished product an equal volume of some other
statutory ingredient of oleomargarine, as for instance, cottonseed oil. The statute confers no power upon the Commissioner to prescribe the formula for the manufacture of oleomargarine, or the proportion of the different ingredients, or to
exclude any ingredient except upon the ground of its being
deleterious to health. But does not the government, in effect,
assume such power to be in the Commissioner when, by reason
of his arbitrary classification, based upon the quantity of palm
oil used, it requires a tax of ten cents per pound upon oleomargarine containing a small or minute proportion of palm
oil, while if the percentage used of that oil were large enough
to constitute what the Commissioner would regard as a sub-

CLIFF v. UNITED STATES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stantial part of the finished product, it is conceded that-the
tax would be only one-fourth of a cent per pound?"
We do not undervalue the force of this argument, but, as
applied to this case, hold that it cannot prevail. It is true
that under the last clause of section 2 oleomargarine includes
"all mixtures and compounds" of the substances named,
"made in imitation or semblance of butter, or, when so made,
calculated or intended to be sold as butter or for butter," and
that palm oil is a vegetable oil, one of those substances. But
in this enumeration Congress included not only those substances which, entering into the composition of oleomargarine,
make it suitable for food, and, so to speak, form its body, but.
also others used only for coloring. After naming some it adds
specifically, "and other coloring matter." The purpose in so
including "coloring matter" is obvious. It was to prevent
excluding from the operation of the statute anything in its
nature oleomargarine by the addition of a substance not in
reality an ingredient, but serving substantially only the purpose of coloring the product to cause it to look like butter.
The fact that one of the ingredients of this compound is palm
oil does not show that such oil does anything else than color
the product composed of other ingredients, and if it does
substantially only this it is rightfully styled an artificial coloration. Otherwise the proviso practically nullifies the body of
the section. For "other coloring matter" includes all coloring matter, at least all of the nature of those named; and
hence the addition of any coloring matter would produce only
a natural and not an artificial coloration, and thus relieve the
product from the ten cent tax. It will be noted that the
regular tax imposed upon oleomargarine by section 8 is ten
cents a pound, the exception thereto being stated in the
proviso, and a party who claims the benefit thereof must make
it clear that his oleomargarine is within its scope. That
exception is "when oleomargarine is free from artificial coloration that causes it to look like butter of any shade of yellow."
Bearing in mind also that one of the purposes of this legisla-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

tion was to prevent the sale of oleomargarine as and for butter,
it must be held that when any substance, although named
as a possible ingredient of oleomargarine, substantially serves
only the function of coloring the mass, and so as to cause the
product to "look like butter of any shade of yellow," it is an
artificial coloration.
Whether the Commissioner of Internal Revenue has all the
authority which is in terms committed to him by section 14
need not be determined. The letter containing his ruling was
admitted in evidence without objection. Irrespective of such
ruling, and upon the other testimony, the judge who tried the
case, and whose decision must be considered as equivalent to
the verdict of a jury, could rightfully have found that this
package of oleomargarine was artificially colored by the small
amount of palm oil used in its manufacture. A witness testified that he called at the place of business of the defendant,
"and found this ten-pound package of oleomargarine, which
had been colored with palm oil to a very decided shade of
yellow, like natural June butter, bearing a tax paid stamp of
one-quarter of a cent a pound." Other witnesses testified to
the exact per cent of palm oil used in the preparation of the
package. One said that "the article so manufactured was
according to a formula used in the course of business, with the
exception of the palm oil. It is what we call the 'Daisy
grade,' the lower grade. It is a substitute for butter." Another testified that "a very small proportion of palm oil is
necessary only to produce what is considered a desirable color
in oleomargarine. The color of palm oil is a reddish yellow.
Its natural color is such that it may be used to make oleomargarine or white substances to look like butter." Further,
the defendant offered quite an amount of testimony, which
was received by the court and afterwards on motion stricken
out as irrelevant aid immaterial. Included in this was that
of the secretary of the manufacturer, who testified that "before July 1, 1902, we used only the Wells-Richardson improved butter color to produce an artificial coloration. Since

STEVENSON v. FAIN.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that date we have used the same article. We have used sopie
palm oil. We used that for a few days only until the Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled that its use would subject the product to the ten cent tax."
The verdict of a jury is conclusive upon a question of fact
unless plainly against the evidence. The same weight, as we
have said, must be given to the finding of a court, and upon
the testimony received without objection a finding that this
palm oil served substantially only to color the product cannot
be disturbed. Indeed the fact was made certain by the testimony offered by the defendant, although that testimony was
afterwards stricken out by the court as immaterial.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

PECKHAM

and MR.

JUSTICE

dissented.

STEVENSON v. FAIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 8. Argued October 18,19, 1904.-Decided November 7,1904.

The Circuit Courts do not possess original jurisdiction over controversies
between citizens of different States claiming lands under grants of different States by reason of the subject matter, and the decree of a Circuit
Court of Appeals in such a case is final and an appeal to this court does
not lie.

THIS was a bill filed by Stevenson and others, citizens and

residents of New York and Rhode Island, against Fain and
others, citizens and residents of North Carolina and Georgia,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Tennessee, to remove a cloud upon the title to a

