BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
195 U. S.

Statemeat of the Case.

216. Under the California practice, in the absence of issue
joined the allegations of the petition are taken as true and the
facts alleged therein are taken as admitted. In re Smith, 77
Pac. Rep. 180. The petition made allegations attacking the
ordinance which, if true, would render it invalid for the reasons stated in the Dobbins case, supra, and the petitioner
upon the record made should have been discharged from
custody.
It is therefore ordered that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of California be reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with the views announced in
the Dobbins case, supra.

BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE UNITED

APPEALS

STATES

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 151. Submitted October 19, 1904.-Decided November 28, 1904.

The act of July 20, 1892, providing when a plaintiff may sue as a poor
person, does not apply to appellate proceedings.
Federal appellate courts have no power to permit prosecutions in forma
pauperis in the absence of a statute.

THIS case is brought here on the following certificate:
"This was an action of tort. The plaintiff was a citizen
of Tennessee, and the defendant a corp6ration organized under the laws of Virginia. The jurisdiction of the court below
was wholly dependent upon diversity of citizenship. There
was a jury and verdict against the plaintiff in error and a
judgment accordingly.
"The plaintiff in error sued out this writ of error, and has
lodged with the clerk of this court, within the time required
by law, a full transcript of the record in the court below. The
(243),

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

clerk refusing to docket same unless the plaintiff would deposit
with him the sum of thirty-five dollars, as security for taxable
costs as required by rule 16 of this court, the plaintiff has filed
her petition, duly verified, praying to be allowed to prosecute
her writ in forma pauperis, and that the clerk be required to
docket said transcript and that the rule requiring a deposit to
cover costs be dispensed with. The petition shows a state of
facts which entitle the plaintiff to prosecute her writ of error
as a poor person, provided the act of July 20, 1892, 27 Statutes
at Large, 252, applies to appellate proceedings.
"Because this court has doubts as to whether the act of
Congress above mentioned applies to appellate proceedings,
it is ordered that the foregoing statement be certified to the
Supreme Court and the instruction of that court be requested
for the proper decision of the following questions which arise
upon the petition and motion of the plaintiff in error.
"1. Does the act of July 20, 1892, 27 Statutes at Large, 252,
providing when a plaintiff may sue as a poor person, apply to
the prosecution of a writ of error from this court?
"2. If that act of Congress does not apply to appellate proceedings, has this court any authority to permit the prosecution of a writ of error in forma pauperis ?"
The act of July 20, 1892, above referred to, reads:
"An act providing when plaintiff may sue as a poor person
and when counsel shall be assigned by the court.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That any
citizen of the United States, entitled to conunence any suit
or action in any court of the United States, may commence
and prosecute to conclusion any such suit or action without
being required to prepay fees or costs, or give security therefor before or after bringing suit or action, upon filing in said
court a statement under oath, in writing, that, because of his
poverty, he is unable to pay the costs of said suit or action
which he is about to commence, or to give security for the
same, and that he believes he is entitled to the redress he seeks

BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
195 U. S.

Argument for Bradford.

by such suit or action, and setting forth briefly the nature of
his alleged cause of action.
"SEC. 2. That after any such suit or action shall have been
brought, or that is now pending, the plaintiff may answer and
avoid a demand for fees or security for costs by filing a like
affidavit, and wilful false _swearing in any affidavit provided
for in this or the previous section, shall be punishable as
perjury is in other cases.
"Sp~c. 3. That the officers of the court shall issue, serve all
process, and perform all duties in such cases, and witnesses
shall attend as in other cases, and the plaintiff shall have the
same remedies as are provided by law in other cases.
"SEc. 4. That the court may request any attorney of the
court to represent such poor person, if it deems the cause
worthy of a trial, and may dismiss any such cause so brought
under this act if it be made to appear that the allegation of
poverty is untrue, or if said court be satisfied that the alleged
cause of action is frivolous or malicious.
"SEc. 5. That judgment may be rendered for costs at the
conclusion of the suit as in other cases: Provided, That the
United States shall not be liable for any of the costs thus
incurred."
Mr. James Gallagher and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney for
Bradford:
As the case was reroved to the Circuit Court, it is to be
considered, for all purposes, as having originated in said
court, thus distinguishing it from Galloway v. Bank, 186 U. S.
177, which arose in a state court. The former case is within
the equity of the act of Congress. Fuller v. Montague, 53 Fed.
Rep. 206, but see The Presto, 93 Fed. Rep. 522.
Although the Tennessee statute authorizing the commencement of this case in forma pauperis in the state court is narrower and more restricted in scope than the act of Congress
upon the same subject, it has been construed to extend to
the prosecution of appellate proceedings. Phillips v. Rudle,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Southern Railway Company.

195 U. S.

1 Yerger, 121; Brinkley v. Hayworth, 3 Yerger, 421; Mosley
v. Davenport, 6 Lea, 80, and see 2 Heiskell, 634.
The trial judge having granted the writ of error in forma
pauperis, and the Circuit Court of Appeals having certified
the statement and questions to this court for instructions, a
prima facie meritorious case is shown, at least within the
equity of the act of Congress, if not within its letter.
Independent of any statute, the Circuit Court of Appeals
possesses inherent power to allow the prosecution of a writ
of error in forma pauperis in any case wherein there might
otherwise be a failure of justice. Bland v. Lamb, 2 Jac. & W.
402, cited in 95 Fed. Rep. 345.
If the act of Congress of July 20, 1892, does not apply to
appellate proceedings, it is nevertheless within the discretionary power of the Circuit Court of Appeals to allow plaintiff
in error, for cause shown, to prosecute her writ of error in
forma pauperis.
Mr. FrankP. Poston and Mr. TV. A. Henderson for Southern
Railway Company.
An appeal or writ of error is a statutory proceeding, and
not a common law right. The mere fact that the appellant
is a pauper does not, of itself, relieve him of the necessity of
giving an appeal bond; the general rule is that express statutory authority must be had for an appeal in forma pauperis.
The Presto, 93 Fed. Rep. 524; McLain v. Williams, 43 L. R. A.
287; Sullivan v. Haug, 10 L. R. A. 263; Bailey v. Kincaid, 57
Hun, 516; Butler v. Jarvis, 117 N. Y. 115; Halloran v. Railroad Co., 40 Texas, 465; Fite v. Black, 85 Georgia, 413; Sage
v. Central Railroad Co., 96 U. S. 714; Ex parte Parks, 93 U. S.
21; Woods v. Davidson, 57 Mississippi, 206; Galloway v. Bank,
186 U. S. 177.
The fact of poverty, itself, does not relieve appellant from
the necessity of giving bond, but there must be express statutory authority for an appeal in forma pauperis. Practically
every State in the United States has enacted such a statute.

BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff has had the benefit of a day in court, has had
a fair trial, and was denied a judgment. If she desires to
prosecute the case further, she should be required to give a
bond for the costs, unless she can show clear legislative authority for granting this writ of error on the pauper's oath.
It is well known that the courts are crowded with damage
suits of every imaginable description against railroads and
other corporations and that more than 90 per cent of these
cases are brought on the pauper's oath. Even if the defendant is successful in its defense of these cases, it is required,
as a matter of law, to pay a proportion of the costs, that is,
such costs as are incurred in its behalf.
MR. CHIE-F JusTIcE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

1. After the passage of the act of July 20, 1892, many applications were made to this court for leave to prosecute writs of
error or appeals in forma pduperis, and were uniformly denied,
as we were of opinion that the act had no relation to proceedings in this court. And we so stated in Gallaway v. Fort
Worth Bank, 186 U. S. 177, where leave was asked to prosecute
a writ of error to a state court without giving security as required by section 1000 of the Revised Statutes. The ruling
would have been the same if the review of the judgment or
decree of a court of the United States had been sought, because
in our view the statute refers only to the court of original
jurisdiction. And the same ruling must necessarily obtain
in the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
The act consists of five sections. Of these, sections 3
and 4 obviously relate to the trial or hearing. By section 5
"judgment may be rendered for costs at the conclusion of the
suit as in other cases," which we take to mean judgment at
the close of the trial or hearing, and not judgment then and
also judgment in appellate proceedings, or in case of such
proceedings no -judgment for costs below until judgment rendered above.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

The first section relates to the commencement and carrying
forward of a suit or action without plaintiff being required
to prepay fees or costs or to give security therefor, whether
the fees or costs accrue at the beginning or during the progress
of the suit or action. The application is to be made at the
outset, and the order, if granted, covers the fees or costs,
accruing when or after the suit or action is commenced. And
this result is secured by the words "and its prosecution to
conclusion." That conclusion is the termination of the suit
or action in the court where it is commenced. The second
section provides for a similar application after the suit or
action has been brought.
The words "suit or action" are used in both sections, and
the applicant is required to set forth "his alleged cause of
action," and by section 4 the case may be dismissed "if it be
made to appear that the allegation of poverty is untrue, or if
said court be satisfied that the alleged cause of action is frivolous or malicious."
Lord Coke defined "action" to be "a legal demand of one's
right," and cause of action comprises every fact a plaintiff is
obliged to prove in order to obtain judgment, or, conversely,
every fact the defendant would have the right to traverse,
Railway Company v. Dixon, 179 U. S. 131, 139. The words
"action" and "cause of action" are not ordinarily applicable
to writs of error, and, in our opinion, were obviously not so
applicable here, but used diverso intuitu. And this is so
whether a writ of error be considered a new proceeding or a
continuation of the original proceeding as it is usually regarded in the Federal courts. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264, 410; Nations v. Johnson, 24 How. 195, 205; In re Chetwood, 165 U. S. 443, 461.
A leading case on the subject is Moore v. Cooley, 2 Hill, 412.
The statute of New York under consideration in that case was
as follows (2 Rev. Stat. N. Y. 2d ed. 1836, p. 362):
"Every poor person, not being of ability to sue, who shall
have a cause of action against any other, may petition the

BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court in which such action is depending, or in which it is intended to be brought, for leave to prosecute as a poor person,
and to have counsel and attorneys assigned to conduct his
suit."
After quoting the statute Judge Cowen said:
"Strictly speaking, an error on which a writ lies is not a
cause of action; for, as Lord Coke says, there is a distinction
between writs and actions; and under this distinction he instances actions and writs of error. (2 Inst. 39, 40.) And yet,
a release of all actions extends to writs of error, when anything
may be recovered or taken by way of restitution under or in
consequence of the writ of error. (Co. Litt. 288, b. Bac. Abr.
Release, [1] 2.) This, however, I take it, proceeds rather upon
an equitable, and therefore extended construction of the words
in the release beyond their strict meaning; for they generally
reach the original matter out of which the error arose, that
being the direct subject of an action if the matter be thrown
open by the writ of error. The original matter being released
therefore, the words are very properly construed as reaching
indirectly and in liberal construction to the writ of error itself,
because that depends upon the original matter. Yet, in strictness, no book holds the word action, or words cause of action,
to be identical with a writ of error or cause of a writ of error.
"There can be little doubt that the statute under which
this motion is made, should be construed strictly; for the
pauper comes to litigate entirely at the expense of others.
He is neither to pay his own attorneys or counsel, nor is he
liable to his adversary should the suit prove to be groundless.
He thus enjoys a great privilege and exemption from the
common lot of men, whereby, in respect to causes of action
proper, he becomes, as Lord Bacon says, rather able to vex
than unable to sue. (Hist. of Hen. 7.)"
Lord Bacon was referring to the statute 11 Hen. VII, c. 12,
and his language is elsewhere translated -or explained to mean
"that the charity of the legislature thought it better that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

poor man should be able to vex than that he should not be
able to sue." 6 Bacon's Works, 161.
So in Bristol v. United States, 129 Fed. Rep. 87, where the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit held that the
act of Congress of July 20, 1892, did not entitle a defendant
in a criminal case to prosecute a writ of error out of the Circuit Court of Appeals in forma pauperis, Jenkins, J., delivering the opinion, said:
"We do not think that it can properly be said that a writ
of error is a suit or action within the statute so far as respects
a writ of error in a criminal case. Were it not for the words
'prosecute to conclusion,' we doubt if any court would hold
that the act applied to an appeal or writ of error in a civil cause.
The applicant by the statute must declare the nature of his
cause of action. Surely an erroneous ruling by the trial court
cannot be held to furnish '-a cause of action,' as that phrase is
commonly understood. The statute, by that term, in our
judgment, refers to a legal demand by one against another,
not to the rulings of a trial court. Under a somewhat similar
statute of the state of New York, its Supreme Court, speaking through Judge Cowen, held that the provisions of the
statute do not extend to writs of error. Moore v. Cooley, 2
Hill, 412."
We adhere to the view that the act, on its face, does not
apply to appellate proceedings, and that it does not is sustained
by other considerations.
The act of July 20, 1892, does not purport to grant the right
to prosecute a writ of error or an appeal, and that right depends on statute and not on the common law. United States
v. More, 3 Cranch, 159, 171. Errors can be reviewed only in
the cases in which those processes are given by statute. Ex
parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18, 21.
Section 11 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, creating
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, provides:
"And all provisions of law now in force regulating the
methods and system of review, through appeals or writs of

BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

error, shall regulate the methods and system of appeals and
writs of error provided for in this act in respect of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, including all provisions for bonds or other
securities to be required and taken on such appeals and writs
of error, and any judge of the Circuit Courts of Appeals, in
respect of cases brought or to be brought to that court, shall
have the same powers and duties as to the allowance of appeals or writs of error, and the conditions of such allowance,
as now by law belong to the justices or judges in respect of
the existing courts of the United States respectively."
There are several such provisions, and, among others, section 1000 of the Revised Statutes reads:
"Every justice or judge signing a citation on any writ of
error, shall, except in cases brought up by the United States
or by direction of any Department of the Government, take
good and sufficient security that the plaintiff in error or the
appellant shall prosecute his writ or appeal to effect, and, if
he fail to make his plea good, shall answer all damages and
costs, where the writ is a supersedeas and stays execution, or
all costs only where it is not a supersedeas as aforesaid."
Clearly an act giving the right to prosecute in forma pauperis
cannot be extended by implication beyond its terms in con-*
flict with existing provisions in relation to writs of error and
appeals.
The result is that the first question must be answered in
the negative.
2. The second question is, whether, if the act of July 20,
1892, does not apply to appellate proceedings, the Court of
Appeals has "any authority to permit the prosecution of a
writ of error in forma pauperis."
We answer that that court ha no such power unless derived from statute, and we find no statute authorizing any
order to that effect.
Costs are the creatures of statute, and it is settled that
authority to permit prosecution in forma pauperis must be
given by statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

By section 2 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, the costs
and fees in the Supreme Court are made the costs and fees in
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and the latter courts are empowered to establish all rules and regulations for the conduct
of the business of the court.
And it appears that on November 21, 1898, Rule 16 of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit was so amended
as to read that "at the time of filing the record the plaintiff in
error or appellant shall deposit with the clerk the sum of
thirty-fire dollars as security for costs, except in cases in which
the proper showing is made and an order of this court is entered thereon allowing the cause to proceed in forma pauperis."
But the exception must be assumed to have been framed
on a construction of the act of July 20, 1892, which we have
been constrained to hold it does not bear, and the exception
falls in the absence of a statute authorizing such an order.
We need not advert to the distinction between costs and
fees, but it should be noted that the power of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, in respect of the distribution of costs or in
dealing with its officers in respect of their fees, under special
circumstances, is not here involved.
Both questions answered in the negative.

NEW v. OKLAHOMA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 226.

Argued October 14, 17, 1904--Decided November 28, 1904.

Writs of error from this court to the Supreme Court of Oklahoma in capital
cases do not lie.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Hugh T. Taggart for plaintiff in error:
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma is a court of the United

