OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S

ground that the case fell within the first of the classes of cases
enumerated in section five of the judiciary act of March 3,
1891. But that class only includes cases where the question
is as to the jurisdiction of courts of the United States as such,
and the question has to be certified. That was not the question raised here, and none such was certified. And it is settled
that the District Court had jurisdiction to determine whether
any adverse claim to the money was asserted at the time the
petition was filed. Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1; Louisville
Trust Company v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18.
If the court erred in retaining jurisdiction on the merits,
the remedy was by petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals
under § 24b of the bankruptcy law. Holden v. Stratton, 191
U. S.115.
Appeal dismissed.

AMADO v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 33. Submitted October o25,1904.-Decided November 7, 1904.

The review of the final judgment of the District Court of the United States
for Porto Rico by this court is not restricted to cases in which the Constitution or a treaty of the United States or an act of Congress is brought
in question and the right claimed under it is denied. There may be
cases, certainly civil cases, which if determined in a Supreme Court of one
of the Territories of the United States could be reviewed although not involving any right of a distinctly Federal nature.
But a criminal case like this arising under § 3082 Rev. Stat., could not be
reviewed by this court in virtue of the words, in § 35 of the Porto Rico
act of April 12, 1900, "in the same cases as from the Supreme Courts of
the Territories of the United States."
Nor will the words in the same act, " in all cases where the Constitution of
the United States, or a treaty thereof, or an act of Congress is brought
in question and the right claimed thereunder is denied," authorize this
court to review a judgment of conviction in a criminal case in the court below under § 3082 Rev. Stat., when the only claim at the trial was that the

AMADO v,. UNITED STATES.
195 U. S.

.Opinion of the Court.

indictment did not charge "an offense under the statutes of the United
States." Such an objection was too indefinite.
Unless a judgment in the United States District Court for Porto Rico can be
reviewed here, then it is final ; for no case determined in that court can
be carried to a Circuit Court of Appeals.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Submitted on the record for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Purdy for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE, HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
THE Revised Statutes of the United States provide that
"if any person shall fraudulently or knowingly import or
bring into the United States, or assist in so doing, any merchandise, contrary to law, or shall receive, conceal, buy, sell,
or in any manner facilitate the transportation, concealment,
or sale of such merchandise after importation, knowing the
same to have been imported contrary to law, such merchandise shall be forfeited and the offender shall be fined in any
sum not exceeding five thousand dollars nor less than fifty
dollars, or be imprisoned for any time not exceeding two
years, or both." § 3082.
The act of April 12, 1900, temporarily providing revenues
and a civil government for Porto Rico, declares, among other
things, that on and after its passage "the same tariffs, customs,
and duties shall be levied, collected, and paid upon all articles
imported into Porto Rico from ports other than those of the
United States which are required by law to be collected upon
articles imported into the United States from foreign countries;" also, that "the statutory laws of the United States not
locally inapplicable, except as hereinbefore or hereinafter otherwise provided, shall have the same force and effect in Porto
Rico as in the United States, except the internal revenue laws,
which, in view of the provisions of section three, shall not have
force and effect in Porto Rico." 31 Stat. 77, 80, c. 191,
§§2, 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

These statutes being in force, the plaintiff in error, Amado,
was indicted in the District Court of the United States for
Porto Rico, upon the charge of having, on May 28, 1901,
unlawfully received, concealed and facilitated the transportation, concealment and sale of certain specified quantities of
Holland gin, vermouth, brandy and Danish beer, theretofore,
as the accused well knew, fraudulently imported into Porto
Rico, contrary to law, without the payment to the United
States of the duties imposed upon such articles.
The accused was duly arraigned, and found guilty by a jury.
A motion in arrest of judgment having been overruled, he was
sentenced to confinement in the penitentiary of Porto Rico
for one year and one day, and to pay a fine of five hundred
dollars. A new trial was denied, and the accused sued out
the present writ of error.
In allowing the writ the Judge of the District Court expressed some doubt whether error would lie, but he resolved
the doubt in favor of the defendant.
The Government insists that the writ of error should be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court to review the
judgment below; otherwise, that the judgment should be
affirmed.
It is provided by the above act of April 12, 1900, that the
District Court of the United States for Porto Rico "shall have,
in addition to the ordinary jurisdiction of District Courts of
the United States, jurisdiction of all cases cognizant in the
Circuit Courts 'of the United States, and shall proceed therein
in the same manner as a Circuit Court." 31 Stat. 77, 84,
c. 191, § 34.
The act also provides that writs of error and appeals from
the final decisions of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico and
the District Court of the United States shall be allowed and
may be taken to this court "in the same manner and under
the same regulations and in the same cases as from the Supreme Courts of the Territories of the United States; and such
writs of error and appeal shall be allowed in all cases where

AMADO v. UNITED STATES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution of the United States, or treaty thereof, or an
act of Congress is brought in question and the right claimed
thereunder is denied; . . . . " Ibid. § 35.
A review of the final judgment of the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico is not restricted to those cases
in which the Constitution or a treaty of the United States or
an act of Congress is brought in question and the right claimed
under it denied. This construction is too narrow and technical. There may be cases-certainly civil cases-in the United
States District Court for Porto Rico that do not involve any
question arising under the Constitution, or a treaty, or an act
of Congress; and yet if the case be one which, if determined
in a Supreme Court of one of the Territories of the United
States, could be brought here for reexamination, the final
judgment could be reviewed by this court, although no right
of a distinctly Federal nature was involved. Royal Ins. Co.
v. Martin, 192 U. S. 149, 160; Hijo v. UnitedStates, 194 U. S.
315, 320. See Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S. 461. But
even this test, if applied here, will not avail the accused;
for the statutes regulating the appellate jurisdiction of this
court do not authorize a review of the final judgment in a
Supreme Court of one of the Territories of the United States
in a criminal case like this one.
Can our jurisdiction be sustained by reference to the words,
in the Porto Rico act, "in all cases where the Constitution of
the United States, or a treaty thereof, or an act of Congress
is brought in question and the right claimed thereunder is
denied?" We must answer this question in the negative.
The nearest approach to -a claim of specific right under the
Constitution or a treaty of the United States or under an act
of Congress, was when the accused, in his written motion to
arrest the judgment or sentence, insisted that the indictment
did not set forth," an offense under the statutes of the United
States." But that language amounted to nothing more, in
legal effect, than a plea of not guilty, or a demurrer upon the
general ground that the indictment did not state enough to

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

show an offense. It was not the assertion of any particular
right under the Constitution, or under any treaty, or under
an act of Congress, which would be denied to him, if the prosecution was sustained. His contention was only that he was
not subject to criminal prosecution by reason of anything
set forth in the indictment. The indictment was plainly sufficient under the statute prescribing the offense charged, and
the objections to it were too indefinite to meet the requirements of the act of 1900, and make the case one which, by
that act, could be brought to this court for review. Unless
the case was one in which the judgment could be reviewed
here, then such judgment would be final and not subject to
review; for no case determined in the United States court for
Porto Rico can be carried to a Circuit Court of Appeals. We
said, in Royal Ins. Co. v. Martin, 192 U. S. 149, 160, that
"Congress did not intend that any connection should exist
between the United States court for Porto Rico and any Circuit Court of Appeals established under the act of 1891."
The writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction
in this court, and
It is so ordered.

CRAWFORD v. BURKE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 22. Argued April 25, 26,1904.-Decided November 7, 1904.

A plea puis darrien continuance waives all prior pleas and amounts to an
admission of the plaintiff's cause of action.
A commission merchant and factor who sells for others is not indebted in a
fiduciary capacity within the bankruptcy acts by withholding the money
received for property sold by him and this rule applies to a broker carryC ing stocks on margin who sells the same and does not pay over the proceeds to his principal.
A change in phraseology of a statute reenacted creates a presumption of

