OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

"Finally, there is a claim of error in the instructions, but
the difficulty with this is that they are not legally before us.
True, there appears in the transcript that which purports to
be a copy of the charge, marked by the clerk as filed in his
office among the papers in the case; but it is well settled that
instructions do not in this way become part of the record.
They must be incorporated in a bill of exceptions, and thus
authenticated by the signature of the judge. This objection
is essentially different from that of the lack or the sufficiency
of exceptions. An appellate court considers only such matters as appear in the record. From time immemorial that has
been held to include the pleadings, the process, the verdict,
and the judgment, and such other matters as by some statutory or recognized method have been made a part of it."
That parties by their affidavits or agreements cannot cause
that to become a bill of exceptions which is not such in a legal
sense, is settled. Nelson v. Flint, 166 U. S. 276, 279; Malony
v. Adsit, 175 U. S. 281, 285, and cases cited.
As it results that the record before us does not exhibit error,
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia must be and it is
Affirmed.

OLSEN v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF

CIVIL APPEALS

FOR THE FOURTH

SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 42. Argued November 3, 1904.-Decided November 28, 1904.

State laws regulating pilotage, although regulations of commerce, fall
within that class of powers which may be exercised by the States until
Congress has seen fit to act upon the subject.
Whether illegal provisions in a pilotage statute granting discriminatory
exemptions to vessels of that State can be eliminated without destroying the other provisions of the statute, is a State and not a Federal ques-

OLSEN v. SMITH. 195 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tion. For the purpose of determining the validity of state statutes in
their Federal aspect this court accepts the interpretation given to the
statute by the state court and tests their validity accordingly.
The effect of Rev. Stat. §§ 4237, 4-144, is not to interfere with or abrogate
state laws regulating pilotage, but to withdraw coastwise steam vessels
from the pilotage charges imposed by such state laws.
A state pilotage law subjecting all vessels, domestic and foreign, engaged
in foreign trade to pilotage regulations, but which exempts pursuant to
law coastwise steam vessels of the United States, is not in conflict with
provisions in the treaty between the United States and Great Britain
to the effect that British vessels shall not be subject to any higher or
other charges than vessels of the United States.
Pilotage regulations being under the control of the State, a state pilotage
law otherwise unobjectionable, is not violative of the Fourteenth Amendment because it prevents an unlicensed person from rendering services
as a pilot or because it creates a monopoly iii favor of the pilots who
are licensed under the act.

THE facts, which involved the constitutionality of the pilotage law of the State of Texas, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter Gresham for plaintiff in error:

The act constitutes one scheme and the illegal provisions
cannot be separated from the legal provisions. Spraiguev.
Thompson, 118 U. S. 94; Freeman v. The Undaunted, 37 Fed.

Rep. 662. The statute conflicts with the treaty with Great
Britain. U. S. Treaties, 1889, 411.

The .statute conflicts

with the anti-trust law of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 647. As
construed by this court this law prohibits all contracts and
combinations creating monopolies or preventing free competition in traffic or commerce between the States or with
foreign nations, or hindering or impeding the instrumentalities
of interstate or foreign commerce. The Galveston Pilot Association is guch a combination. United States v. Freight Assn.,
166 U. S. 327; United States v. Joint Traffic Assn., 171 U. S.
569; Addyston Pipe Case, 175 U. S. 211; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197; Montague v. Lowry, 193

LT. S. 38.
The State cannot declare an occupation to which none of
the functions of government attach, to be an office, limit the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

number of citizens who may hold the same, and prohibit all
others, whatever their qualifications and fitness, from pursuing it. The Texas statute which declares a pilot to be an
officer, and limits the number of citizens who can serve as
pilots to the defendants in error, and such deputies as they
may choose to appoint, is void.
The Legislature has limited the number of deputies and
delegated to defendants in error the power to select and limit
the number of men who can become qualified to serve as
branch pilots. Such a limitation and delegation of authority
by the Legislature is illegal, whether a branch pilot be an
officer of the State or not. Willis v. Owens, 43 Texas, 41;
Peoples' R. R. Co. v. Memphis R. R. Co., 10 Wall. 50; Cooley's
Constitutional Limitations, 6th ed., 137 and note 1. A pilot
is not a public officer. Hobart v. Drogan, 10 Pet. 123; Dean
v. Healy, 66 Georgia, 503; Navigation Laws of the U. S.,
1899, 53.
He is merely a navigator,-one who is or ought to be familiar
with taking charge of a ship, and taking it into or out of the port
at the particular place where he is engaged in the business.
18 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 444; United States v. Forbes,
1 Crab. 558; S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 15,129. As to who are
officers, see Texas Const. art. II, § 1, art. IV, § 1; Petterson
v. Texas, 58 S. W. Rep. 100.
The right of the defendants in error to maintain this suit
is based upon the hypothesis that a pilot is a state officer.
United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385; Atty. Gen.. v. Drohan,
169 Massachusetts, 534; Shelby v. Alcorn, 36 Mississippi, 273;
Vance v. W. A. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438.
If a State deprives a citizen who is a skilled seaman, qualified
to be a pilot, of his natural right to pursue his occupation it
deprives him of the "liberty" and "property" guaranteed him
by the Fourteenth Amendment. Slaughter House Case, 16
Wall. 79; Brannon's Fourteenth Amendment, and cases cited
pp. 109, 115; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 480; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; S. C., 82 Fed. Rep. 833; Powell v.

OLSEN v. SMITH.
195 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 684; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent
City Co., 1 U. S. 757, 762; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 589;
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 558, 567.
The power over the subject of pilots and pilotage is conferred upon Congress by the commercial clause of the Constitution. Art. I, § 8, cl. 3. This power is without limit and
exclusive and cannot be delegated or surrendered.
It has been recognized that the States, in the absence of
Congressional action, have authority to regulate the subject
of pilots and pilotage, although the lines of argument by which
this conclusion has been reached are by no means uniform.
At the time when the decisions cited by defendants in error
were rendered Congress had not, except the act of 1789, legislated upon this subject, and most of the harbors and rivers
of the United States were only known to the local pilots.
These conditions are now changed and Congress has legislated
in many matters respecting pilotage and the earlier cases can
be distinguished.
Mr. James B. Stubbs, with Wvhom Mr. Charles J. Stubbs was
on the brief, for defendants in error:
The acts of Congress are paramount and nullify all conflicting
provisions whatever in a state statute but the objectionable
features of the Texas statute are separable. The Alameda,
32 Fed. Rep. 333; Reagan v. Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 62 Texas, 630; Keokuk &c. Co. v. Keokuk,
95 U. S. 89; Spraigue v. Thompson, 118 U. S. 90; The Undaunted, 37 Fed. Rep. 662, distinguished; Loeb v. Trustees
of Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 490.
The rule requiring ships in the foreign trade to take a pilot,
or pay half pilotage, can and was intended to be applicable
to such vessels, in any event, regardless of the rules then or
thereafter prescribed for domestic or coasting craft. The
state exemption of such is broad, including many that the
Federal act omits, and it is apparent that the legislature would
not have hesitated, if called to its attention, to have made the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

state exemptions or options conform to the National.

195 U. S.

Tier-

nan v. Rinker, 102 U. S. 123; S. C., 47 Texas, 393; T. & P. Ry.
Co. v. Mahaffey, 10 T. C. R. 779; FloridaCentralRy. v. Schutte,
103 U. S. 118; Little Rock & Ft. S. R. Co. v. Worthen, 120
U. S. 102. This court will accept the construction of the
Texas courts in such cases as this. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota,
180 U. S. 460; Tullis v. Lake Erie & W. R. Co., 175 U. S. 348;
Mo. Pac. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Chicago, M. & St.
P. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; St. L., I. M. & S. R.
Co. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404; M., K. & T. Ry. v. McCann, 174
U. S. 586.
The statute does not contravene the foreign treaty or the
anti-trust act.
No restraint of commerce or prevention of competition can
exist by virtue of any agreement among the pilots themselves. The law alone is responsible for the limited number
of pilots, and it alone prescribes the maximum rates of pilotage, and generally provides for the regulation of the service
by the Commissioners who are responsible to the Governor.
The formation of a partnership among all the pilots of the
port is not unlawful. Petterson v. Board of Pilot Commissioners, 57 S. W. Rep. 1002; Jones v. Clifford, 5 Florida, 510;
Levine v. Michel, 35 La. Ann. 121; The Pirate, 32 Fed. Rep.
490; The Dundee, 103 Fed. Rep. 698; S. C., 108 Fed. Rep.
678; Mason v. Ervine, 27 Fed. Rep. 459.
An agreement to be in conflict with the anti-trust act must
directly and substantially, and not merely indirectly and incidentally, regulate interstate or foreign commerce. Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 615. And see besides cases cited
by plaintiff in error. Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578.
The State has the right to limit the number of port pilots
and require service as a deputy pilot as a condition precedent
to appointment as pilot. Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall.
450; Petterson v. Board, 57 S. W. Rep. 1002;
The power exercised by States in enacting pilotage laws is
an original power and not one delegated by Congress. The

OLSEN v. SMITH.
195 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Chase, 14 Fed. Rep. 854; Davidson v. Sadler, 57 S. W. Rep.
54.
The position of a pilot is that of a public officer. People v.
Woodbury, 14 California, 43; Flynn v. Abbott, 16 California,
359; Doliver v. Parks, 136 Massachusetts, 499; The California,
1 Sawy. 596; S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 2313; Barnaby v. State, 21
Indiana, 450. See also laws in New York and Louisiana
referred to in foregoing opinions.
Courts should declare a law unconstitutional only when it
is clearly so. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87. Where an employment or a duty is a continuing one, defined by rules prescribed by law and not by contract, such a charge or employment is an office. Measured by this rule the Galveston
pilots are officers. 23 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 324,
and cases cited in note 1.
As to the deputies some preliminary training for pilots is
essential, and it is well-nigh the universal practice in our
maritime States to require a proper service as deputies or
apprentices. Palmer v. Woodbury, 14 California, 45.
The Fourteenth Amendment was not designed to interfere
with the police power of the State, and the pilotage laws are
police regulations of commerce. Congress possesses the right
to establish these regulations, but as long as it does not assume
this power the States may exercise it. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 207. If Congress had taken charge of the entire
subject its right to prescribe an apprenticeship or a deputyship could not be successfully challenged. Tiedeman's Lim.
of Police Power, 626; Hughes on Admiralty, 28, 38; The China,
7 Wall. 53; Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572.
Legislation limited in its application, but operating alike on
all persons similarly situated, is not within the Fourteenth
Amendment. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; A., T. &
S. F. Ry. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 106; The Chase, 14 Fed: Rep.
854.
States have delegated to others the authority to recommend
in one case, and to appoint in the other, the pilot commisVOL. Oxcv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

sioners of the ports of Boston and New York respectively.
Opinion of the Justices, 154 Massachusetts, 603; S. C., 31
N. E. Rep. 634; Sturges v. Spofford, 45 N. Y. 446; Cooley v.
Board of Wardens, 12 How. 300; and see Ex parte McNeill,
13 Wall. 236.
Congress can, if it deems best, assume control of pilotage
in every State, but it is well settled that the mere grant to
Congress of the power to regulate commerce did not deprive
the States of the power to regulate pilots, unless and until
Congress should determine otherwise. The only question
raised or doubt expressed was as to the validity of the laws
or the authority of the States to enact them. The Carry L.
Tyler, 106 Fed. Rep. 426; The Creole, Fed Cas. 13,033; Darden
v. Thompson, 101 Virginia, 635, 755.
Pilot laws of other seaboard States are similar to this as to
apprentices. Alabama Code, 1896, §§ 2992, 2996, 2999;
Florida, Rev. Stat. 1892, §§ 938 et seq.; Delaware Code, 1893,
556, 558; Georgia Code, 1895, §§ 1651, 1653, 1683, 1684;
New York, 3 Rev. Stat. pp. 2266, 2273; Virginia Code, 1887,
§§ 1955 et seq.; New Jersey, 2 Gen. Stats., arts. 56, 59; Mississippi, Ann. Code, §§ 2252, 2258, 2260, 2261; Maryland, 2 Pub.
Gen. Laws, art. 74, §§ 4, 6, 10; South Carolina, Rev. Stat.1893,
§§ 1357, 1365; North Carolina, Battle's Rev. ch. 87, §§ 1, 7.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in error, who were plaintiffs in the court
of original jurisdiction, as the duly licensed state pilots of the
port of Galveston, Texas, sued in a Texas District Court to
recover the damages averred to have been caused them by the
alleged illegal action of the defendant in offering, when he was
not authorized by law to do so, his services "to pilot sail
vessels or registered steamers, bound to or from foreign ports,
in or out of the port of Galveston." An injunction was prayed
restraining the defendant from acting "in any manner as
branch or deputy pilot, or pilot under the laws of the State

OLSEN v. SMITH.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Texas, and of said port, or under the laws of the United
States, with respect to the kind of vessels specified." The
defendant filed a general demurrer, and, reserving the demurrer, answered, raising special defenses based on averments
that the pilotage laws of Texas were in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the United States. The court overruled
the demurrer of the defendant, and, on the gromd that no
defence was stated, sustained a demurrer to the answer. A
judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiffs, awarding an
.injunction as prayed. 68 S. W. ]Rep. 320. The case was
taken to the Court of Civil Appeals for the First Supreme
Judicial District, was thence transferred to the Court of Civil
Appeals for the Fourth Supreme Judicial District, where the
decree below was affirmed, with a slight modification not.necessary to be stated. The Supreme Court of the State having
declined to review the action of the Court of Civil Appeals, this
writ of error was prosecuted to the latter court.
The defenses raised by the answer, which the court below
held to be no defense to the action, and which are in effect
reiterated in the assignments of error, require us to determine,
first, whether the State 'of Texas had power to enact laws
regulating pilotage in the ports of that State; and, second, if
such power existed, whether the provisions of the state statutes on that subject are void because they conflict with acts
of Congress on the subject of pilotage, and because the statutes
of Texas as to pilotage contain provisions of such a character
as to cause them to be repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment or to the laws of Congress forbidding combinations in
restraint of trade or commerce. Briefly, the pilotage laws of
the State of Texas provide as follows: The governor is authorized to appoint for each port, whose population and circumstances shall warrant it, "a board of five persons of respectable standing, to be known as commissioners of pilotage."
Upon this board power is conferred to fix, within the maximum limits provided by law, the charges to be made by branch
and deputy pilots for their services, to regulate the manner

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

in which such pilots shall perform their duty, to examine them
as to their qualifications, to hear complaints made against
them, and, if occasion requires, to suspend them until the
governor shall act in the matter. Upon the governor is conferred the authority to appoint such number of branch pilots
as may from time to time be necessary, each of whom shall
hold office for two years, subject to removal by the governor
at pleasure, and any one who is not a duly commissioned
branch pilot or deputy thereof is prohibited from engaging in
the business of pilotage so far as the statutes provide for
pilotage services by the duly appointed pilots. Revised Statutes of the State of Texas for 1895, articles 3790, 3791, 3792,
3793, 3794, 3796 and 3803. The maximum rates of pilotage
are provided for as follows:
"The rate of pilotage on any class of vessels shall not, in
any port of this state, exceed four dollars for each foot of water
which the vessel at the time of piloting draws, and whenever
a vessel, except of the classes below excepted, shall decline
the services of a pilot, offered outside the bar, and shall enter
the port without the aid of one, she shall be liable to the first
pilot whose services she so declined, for the payment of half
pilotage; and any vessel which, after being brought in by a
pilot, shall go out without employing one, shall be liable to
the payment of half pilotage to the pilot who brought her in,
or, if she has come in without the aid of a pilot, though offered
outside, she shall, on so going out, be liable for the payment
of half pilotage to the pilot who had first offered his services
before she came in, but if she has come in without the aid of
a pilot, or the offer of one outside, she shall not, in case of
going out without a pilot, be liable to half pilotage. . .
Article 3800.
The vessels excepted from the operation of the foregoing
provisions are thus stated in article 3801:
"The following classes of vessels shall be free from any
charge for pilotage, unless for actual service, to wit: All vessels of twenty tons and under, all vessels of whatsoever burden

OLSEN v. SMITH.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

owned in the state of Texas and registered and licensed in the
district of Texas, when arriving from or departing to any
port of the state of Texas; all vessels of seventy-five tons and
under, owned and licensed for the coasting -trade in any part
of the United States, when arriving from or departing to any
port in the state of Texas; all vessels of seventy-five tons or
under owned in the state of Texas and licensed for the coasting
trade in the district of Texas when arriving from or departing
to any port in the United States."
The first contention in effect is that the State was without
power to legislate concerning pilotage, because any enactment on that subject is necessarily q regulation of conmmerce
within the provision of the Constitution of the United States.
The unsoundness of this contention is demonstrated by the
previous decisions of this court, since it has long since been
settled that even although state laws concerning pilotage are
regulations of commerce, "they fall within that class of powers
which may be exercised by the States until Congress has seen
fit to act upon the subject." Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12
How. 299; Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wall. 236; Wilson v. McNamee,
102 U. S.572.
The second proposition relied on is that, albeit the State had
power to legislate concerning pilotage until Congress acted,
the state laws are void because in conflict with the laws enacted
by Congress. This is based upon two provisions of the Revised Statutes of the United States, the one providing "that
no regulations or provisions shall be adopted by any State
which shall make any discrimination in the rate of pilotage
or half pilotage between vessels sailing between the ports of
one State and vessels sailing between the ports of different
States, or any discrimination against vessels propelled in whole
or in part by steam, or against national vessels of the United
States, and all existing regulations or provisions making any
such discrimination are annulled and abrogated," Rev. Stat.
§437; the other being the provision of the statutes, Rev. Stat.
§ 1444, exempting coastwise steam vessels from the operation'

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

of state pilotage laws. Undoubtedly the exempting clause of
the Texas statute is discriminatory, and is therefore void, because in conflict with the law of the United States. The court
below so decided. It held, however, that the provisions discriminating in favor of Texas ships and ports were separable
from the remainder of the statutes, and therefore the general
regulations concerning pilotage were valid, although the discriminating provisions were eliminated. Whether the illegal
clauses granting discriminatory exemptions could be eliminated
without destroying the other provisions of the state laws
regulating pilotage, is a State and not a Federal question.
For the purpose of determining the validity of the statutes
in their Federal aspect this court accepts the interpretation
given to the statutes by the state court and tests their validity
accordingly. W. W. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452,
466, and authorities there cited. True it is in Spraigue v.
Thompson, 118 U. S. 90, a case involving the pilotage laws of
Georgia, in the course of the opinion it was remarked (p. 95)
that the ruling of the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia,
that the illegal provision of the statute in question was separable, caused the statute "to enact what confessedly the legislature never meant." But this remark was not made the
basis of the conclusion, since it was decided in that case that
the pilotage charge in question was invalid, even under the
construction given by the Supreme Court of the State of
Ge.orgia to the state statute, because the exaction which was
in controversy was in conflict with the provisions of the Revised Statutes of the United States, exempting coastwise
steam vessels from pilotage charges. In any event, it is apparent that the observation referred to, made in the case of
Spraigue v. Thompson, has been qualified by the later. decisions of this court to which we have previously referred.
Of course, whilst accepting the construction of the state
court as to the divisibility of the statute, the duty yet remains, for the purpose of the Federal question, to determine
whether the statute as construed is valid. As the effect of

OLSEN v. SMITH.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the construction below was- to eliminate the discrimination
from the statute, it is clear, in view of the power of the State
to legislate concerning pilotage until Congress acts upon the
subject, that the statutes, as interpreted below, were within

-the power of the State and not in conflict with any act of
Congress. Indeed, it is obvious from the provisions of the
Revised Statutes, sec. 4237, forbidding discrimination in state
legislation concerning pilotage, that Congress did not intend
by that section to revoke the power of the States on the subject or to abrogate existing pilotage laws of the several States
containing discriminatory provisions, but only to abrogate
the provisions making the discrimination. This results since
the statute, after first generally prohibiting regulations by
any State discriminating "in the rate of pilotage or half pilotage between vessels sailing between the ports of one state and
vessels sailing between the ports of different states, or any
discrimination against vessels propelled in whole or in part by
steam, or against national vessels of the. United States," in
careful language annuls and abrogates only "all existing regulations or provisions making any-such discrimination." And
this construction of the section in question disposes also of
the argument that if the statute be accepted as interpreted
by the state court, it is nevertheless repugnant to the law of
the United States, since, if the exceptions found in the state
statutes are eliminated," then those statutes impose pilotage
charges upon all vessels, and hence subject coastwise steam
vessels of the United States to such charges, although they are
expressly exempted therefrom. Revised Statutes, §4444. But
the provisions of that section clearly contemplated that by
the existing state laws, coastwise steam vessels of the United
States were subject to pilotage charges, and proposed, whilst
withdrawing such vessels from pilotage charges, not in other
respects to interfere with the state laws on the subject of
pilotage. This is plainly the result of the following provision
contained in the section in question:
"Nothing in this Title shall be construed to annul or affect

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

any regulation established by the laws of any State, requiring
vessels entering or leaving a port in any such State other than
coastwise steam vessels, to take a pilot duly licensed or authorized by the laws of such State."
Nor is there merit in the contention that, as the vessel in
question was a British vessel coming from a foreign port, the
state laws concerning pilotage are in conflict with a treaty
between Great Britain and-the United States, providing that
"No higher or other duties or charges shall be imposed in any
ports of the United States on British vessels than those payable
in the same ports by vessels of the United States." Neither
the exemption of coastwise steam vessels from pilotage, resulting from the law of the United States, nor any lawful
exemption of coastwise vessels created by the state law, concerns vessels in the foreign trade, and, therefore, any such
exemptions do not operate to produce a discrimination against
British vessels engaged in foreign trade and in favor of vessels
of the United States in such trade. In substance the proposition but asserts that because by the law of the United States
steam vessels in the coastwise trade have been exempt from
pilotage regulations, therefore there is no power to subject
vessels in foreign trade to pilotage regulations, even although
such regulations apply, without discrimination, to all vessels
engaged in such foreign trade, whether domestic or foreign.
It remains only to consider the contention based upon the
Fourteenth Amendment and the anti-trust laws of Congress.
The argument is, that the right of a person who is competent
to perform pilotage services to render them is an inherent
right guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, and that
therefore all state regulations providing for the appointment
of pilots and restricting the right to pilot to those duly appointed, are repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. But
this proposition in its essence simply denies that pilotage is
subject to governmental control, and therefore is foreclosed
by the adjudications to which we have previously referred.
The contention that because the commissioned pilots have a

BIRKETT v. COLUMBIA BANK.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

monopoly of the business, and by combination among themselves exclude all others' from rendering pilotage services, is
also but a denial of the authority of the State to regulate,
since if the State has the power to regulate, and in so doing to
appoint and commission, those who are to perform pilotage
services, it must follow that no monopoly or combination in a
legal sense can arise from the fact that the duly authorized
agents of the State are alone allowed to perform the duties
devolving upon them by law. When the propositions just
referred to are considered in their ultimate aspect they amount
simply to the contention, not that the Texas laws are void
for want of power, but that they are unwise. If an analysis
of those laws justified such conclusion-which we do not at
all imply is the case-the remedy is in Congress, in whom the
ultimate authority on the subject is vested, and cannot be
judicially afforded by denying the power of the State to exercise its authority over a subject concerning which it has
plenary power until Congress has seen fit to act in the premises.
Affirmed.

BIRK[T=

v. COLU-MBIA BANK.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 26. Argued October 28,1904.-fDecided November 28, 104.

Actual knowledge of the proceedings contemplated by section 17 of the
Bankruptcy Act is a knowledge in time to avail a creditor of the benefits
of the law and to give him an equal opportunity with other creditors, and
not a knowledge that may come so late as to deprive him of participation
in the administration of the affairs of the estate or to deprive him of
dividends.

THIS is an action on a promissory note for $750. The defense is discharge in bankruptcy. The making of the note

