OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

the other hand to say that the allegations as to the tribe committing the wrong were essential to the cause of action. That
is to declare that a particular allegation is at the same time
both essential and non-essential-essential to be alleged, but
not essential to be proved.
As it is considered by me that the Gorham case is conclusive
of this, and as the opinion now .announced does not purport to
overrule that case, it is not necessary for me to enter into a
statement of my reasons for believing that, even if that case
did not exist, the construction now given to the statute is not
only repugnant to its text, but conflicts both with the rights
of individual claimants and those of the United States, as
shown by the purpose and spirit of the act.
I therefore dissent.

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
CERTIFICATE FROM AND ORDER TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 7. Argued October 23, 26, 1903.-Decided December 12, 1904.

The act of Congress of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 597, 620, c. 546, relating to the
land grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, construed: Held,
1. That the act embraces land patented as well as unpatented, to which the
right of the grantee or its lawful successor is claimed to have attached by
definite location or selection, and which has been purchased directly from
the United States or settled upon or claimed in good faith by any qualified settler under color of title or claim of right under any law of the
United States or any ruling of the Interior Department.
2. The words in that act providing that the railroad grantee or its successor in interest "shall "not be bound to relinquish lands sold or contracted by it or lands it uses or needs for railroad purposes, or lands
valuable for stone, iron, or coal,"- do not apply to any lands sold or
contracted by the railroad grantee or its successor in interest after the
acceptance of the provisions of the act by the Northern Pacific Railway
Company; no sale or contracting away of any of the lands embraced by

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the act, and in dispute, after the acceptance of the grant could withdraw such lands from the operation of the act.
3. Whatever vested rights were acquired by the railroad company in virtue
of the definite location of its route, as to any lands in dispute and embraced by the act of 1898, became subject to the power conferred upon
the Land Department by that act.
4. The general doctrine reaffirmed that the courts will not interfere with
the discharge of their duties by the officers of the Land Department by
mandamus or injunction in reference to any lands, so long as the title
thereto remains in thd United States.
5. The selection of lands in indemnity limits, after definite location, to supply deficiencies in place or granted limits, does not invest any title in the
railroad grantee to such lands until the selections are approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. The railroad grantee does not become entitled, by reason of such unapproved selections, to ask a court of equity
to intervene as between it or its successors in interest and individual
claimants, so as to have the court declare that the latter could not, by
any entry or purchase, acquire an interest in the lands so selected after
the acceptance of the railroad's map of definite location.

THis case was brought before us upon questions certified
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Subsequently, the United
States was allowed to intervene upon the general ground that
the case involved important questions affecting the administration of the public land laws, including the grant to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company then in process of adjustment. And, on motion of the Government, the plaintiffs
and defendants concurring, the whole record was ordered to
be sent up for our consideration.
The case involves the title to numerous tracts of land situated on the line of the Northern Pacific Railway between
Duluth and Ashland. The lands are described in an exhibit
attached to the bill.
The plaintiffs Humbird and Weyerhaeuser sue as grantees
of the Northern Pacific Railway Company, a Wisconsin corporation, which, it is claimed, succeeded in respect of the
lands in dispute to all the rights, interests and ownership of
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company created by the act
of Congress of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, c. 217. They allege
that the claims of the defendants constitute clouds upon their
title.
voL. Cxcv-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

The defendants assert title under the land laws as settlers
and purchasers from the United States or grantees of such
settlers and purchasers. But the bill alleges that the lands
here in dispute are part of the grant to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company and that the Land Department wrongfully
and unlawfully permitted the entries under which the defendants severally claim. The 'Circuit Court dismissed the
bill, but without prejudice, except as to all lands here involved for which patents had been issued. 110 Fed. Rep. 465.
It seems both appropriate and necessary that the facts be
fully stated. That statement we now proceed to make, premising that the present controversy had its origin, as will be
presently sh6wn, in conflicting orders or rulings in the Land
Department as to what was the eastern terminus of the Northern Pacific Railroad.
By the above act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, Congress made a
grant of lands to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in
aid of the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from
some point on Lake Superior in Minnesota or Wisconsin to
some point on Puget Sound with a branch via Columbia River
to a point at or near Portland. The act established indemnity
limits not more than ten miles beyond the limits of the alternate sections granted. 13 Stat. 365.
By a Joint Resolution, approved May 31, 1870, second
indemnity limits were established within ten miles on each
side of the road, beyond the limits prescribed in the company's
charter. 16 Stat. 378, Res. 67. The effect of this resolution was to allow the company, under the direction of the
Sbecretary of the Interior, to go into second indemnity limits
in order to supply any deficiency in lands on its main line
or branch.
On the third day of July, 1882, the company transmitted
to the Secretary of the Interior a map of definite location
covering the proposed line from Thompson Junction on the
St. Paul and Duluth Railroad near Duluth, Minnesota, to
Ashland in Wisconsin. That map was duly approved by the

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Secretary of the Interior, and the lands embraced by it were
withdrawn from sale or entry.
By resolution of the Board of Directors of the company,
adopted August 28, 1884, Ashland was declared to be the
eastern terminus of the road; and that resolution was accepted
by the Secretary on December 3, 1884, as establishing such
terminus.
The part of the railroad delineated on the map of definite
location was constructed and was duly accepted; and in conformity with the direction of the Secretary the company, the
Circuit Court states, filed lists of selections of lands, some in the
first and others in the second indemnity limits, in lieu of lands
lost to it in its place limits-such lists including all the lands
in controversy in this suit. But the bill avers that no final
action has ever been taken by the Land Department upon
such lists; and they have not yet been approved by the Department.
Subsequently, on August 12, 1896, the Secretary of the
Interior ruled that Duluth, not Ashland, was the eastern
terminus of the railroad, and therefore that the land grant of
1864 did not embrace any lands between Duluth and Ashland. The company's lists of selections were thereupon
canceled by order of the Secretary, and the lands covered
by them were thereafter treated by the Department as unappropriated public lands and were opened for sale and entry.
This appears from an official communication addressed by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, to the Register and
Receiver at Duluth. In that communication the Commissioner said: "On August 27th, 1896, the Secretary of the
Interior rendered a decision wherein he held that the initial
point on Lake Superior or the eastern terminus of the grant
to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company was at Duluth,
Minnesota, and on December 24th, 1896, he approved a diagram prepared by this office showing the eastern terminal of
the grant. On January 23d, 1897, a copy of so much of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

diagram as related to or affected lands within your district
was transmitted to you for the use and guidance of your office.
The decision of the Secretary aforesaid had the effect of restoring to the public domain all lands lying east of said terminal which had theretofore been withdrawn on account of the
grant to said railroad company. Therefore, to the end that
all persons interested may have an opportunity to present any
claims they may have to any of these lands, you will cause to
be published for the period of thirty days, in some newspaper
of general circulation in their vicinity, a notice referring to
said Secretary's decision which in effect declared that all lands
previously withdrawn on account of the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company and lying east of the terminal
established at Duluth are restored to the public domain and
are subject to disposal at your office."
Under the above ruling of the Secretary as to the eastern
terminus, the defendants were allowed to make entries and
purchases on the line of the railroad between Duluth and Ashland, despite the company's map of definite location and the
lists of selections filed by it with the Secretary. In reference
to the action of the Interior Department, the Circuit Court
said: "By reason of the erroneous ruling of the Secretary of
the Interior as to the location of the eastern terminus of said
railroad, and his revocation of his prior approval of lawful
selections by the railroad company of indemnity lands, and
permitting sales and entries of such selected lands as unappropriated, he had introduced confusion and conflict in
respect to the right to such lands, which was beginning to be
litigated in the courts;

.

.

.

The fact that patents had

issued in a few instances would not end such disputes as to the
lands so patented, as courts would adjudge the patentee in
any case to hold the title in trust for the other party, wherever
the other party had clearly the right to the land." 110 Fed.
Rep. 465, 469.
Such was the situation when Congress incorporated into the
body of the Sundry Civil Appropriation act of July 1, 1898,

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
19sU. S.

Statement of the Case.

30 Stat. 597, 620, c. 546, subdivision, "Surveying the Public
Lands," certain provisions relating to the Northern Pacific
land grant. As these provisions disclose a scheme or plan for
the settlement of the disputes arising out of the conflicting
rulings in the Land Department in reference to the eastern
terminus of the railroad, and its action in reference to the
public lands between Duluth and Ashland, they should all be
examined in order to ascertain the intention of Congress.
They are therefore here given in full.
By that act-dividing it, for convenience, into paragraphs
-it was provided:
1. "That where, prior to January first, eighteen hundred and
ninety-eight, the whole or any part of an odd-numbered section, in either the granted or the indemnity limits of the land
grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, to which the
right of the grantee or its lawful successor is claimed to have
attached by definite location or selection, has been purchased
directly from the United States or settled upon or claimed in
good faith by any qualified settler under color of title or claim
of right under any law of the United States or any ruling ofthe Interior Department, and where purchaser, settler, or
claimant refuses to transfer his entry as hereinafter provided,
the railroad grantee or its successor in interest, upon a proper
relinquishment thereof, shall be entitled to select in lieu of
the land relinquished an equal quantity of public lands, surveyed or unsurveyed, not mineral or reserved, and not valuable for stone, iron, or coal, and free from valid adverse claim
or not occupied by settlers at the time of such selection,
situated within any State or Territory into which such railroad grant extends, and patents shall issue for the land so
selected as though it had been originally granted; but all
selections of unsurveyed lands shall be of odd-numbered sections, to be identified by the survey when made, and patent
therefor shall issue to and in the name of the corporation
surrendering the lands before mentioned, and such patents
shall not issue until after the survey:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

2. "Provided, however, That the Secretary of the Interior
shall from time to time ascertain and, as soon as conveniently
may be done, cause to be prepared and delivered to the said
railroad grantee or its successor in interest a list or lists of the
several tracts which have been purchased or settled upon or
occupied as aforesaid, and are now claimed by said purchasers
or occupants, their heirs or assigns, according to the smallest
Government subdivision. And all right, title, and interest
of the said railroad grantee or its successor in interest in and
to any of such tracts, which the said railroad grantee or its
successor in interest may relinquish hereunder shall revert to
the United States, and such tracts shall be treated, under the
laws thereof, in the same manner as if no rights thereto had
ever vested in the said railroad grantee, and all qualified persons who have occupied and may be on said lands as herein
provided, or who have purchased said lands in good faith as
aforesaid, their heirs and assigns, shall be permitted to prove
their titles to said lands according to law, as if said grant had
never been made; and upon such relinquishment said Northern Pacific Railroad Company or its lawful successor in interest may proceed to select, in the manner hereinbefore provided, lands in lieu of those relinquished, and patents shall
issue therefor:
3. "Provided further, That the railroad grantee or its successor in interest shall accept the said list or lists so to be
made by the Secretary of the Interior as conclusive with respect to the particular lands to be relinquished by it, but it
shall not be bound to relinquish lands sold or contracted by
it or lands which it uses or needs for railroad purposes, or lands
valuable for stone, iron, or coal:
4." And provided further, That whenever any qualified settler
shall in good faith make settlement in pursuance of existing
law upon any odd-numbered sections of unsurveyed public
lands within the said railroad grant to which the right of such
railroad grantee or its successor in interest has attached, then
upon proof thereof satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior,

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

and a due relinquishment of the prior railroad right, other
lands may be selected in lieu thereof by said railroad grantee
or its successor in interest, as hereinbefore provided, and patents shall issue therefor:
5. "And provided further, That nothing herein contained
shall be construed as intended or having the effect to recognizd
the Northern Pacific Railway Company as the lawful successor of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company in the ownership of the lands granted by the United States to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, under and by virtue of foreclosure
proceedings against said Northern Pacific Railroad Company
in the courts of the United States, but the legal question
whether the said Northern Pacific Railway Company is such
lawful successor of the said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, should the question be raised, shall be determined
wholly without reference to the provisions of this act, and
nothing in this act shall be construed as enlarging the quantity
of land which the said Northern Pacific Railroad Company is
entitled to under laws heretofore enacted:
6. "And provided further, That all qualified settlers, their
heirs or assigns, who, prior to January first, eighteen hundred
and ninety-eight, purchased or settled upon or claimed in good
faith, under color of title or claim of right under any law of
the United States or any ruling of the Interior Department,
any part of an odd-numbered section in either the granted or
indemnity limits of the land grant to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company to which the right of such grantee or its
lawful successor is claimed to have attached by definite location or selection, may in lieu thereof transfer their claims to an
equal quantity of public lands surveyed or unsurveyed, not
mineral or reserved, and not valuable for stone, iron, or coal,
and free from valid adverse claim, or not occupied by a settler
at the time of such entry, situated in any State or Territory
into which such railroad grant extends, and make proof therefor as in other cases provided; and in making such proof, credit
shall be given for the period of their bona fide residence and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

amount of their improvements upon their respective claims
in the said granted or indemnity limits of the land grant to the
said Northern Pacific Railroad Company the same as if made
upon the tract to which the transfer is made; and before the
Secretary of the Interior shall cause to be prepared and delivered to said railroad grantee or its successor in interest any
list or lists of the several tracts which have been purchased or
settled upon or occupied as hereinbefore provided, he shall
notify the purchaser, settler, or claimant, his heirs or assigns,
claiming against said railroad company, of his right to transfer his entry or claim, as herein provided, and shall give him
or them option to take lieu lands for those claimed by him or
them or hold his claim and allow the said railroad company
to do so under the terms of this act." 30 Stat. 597, 620.
The provisions of that act were formally accepted in writing
by the Northern Pacific Railway Company on the thirteenth
of July, 1898, in writing, and such written acceptance was
promptly transmitted by the company to the Secretary of the
Interior.
In a case in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, determined
shortly before the act of 1898, it was held, contrary to the
ruling of the Interior Department in 1896, that Ashland, and
not Duluth, was the eastern terminus of the Northern Pacific
Railway. Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Doherty, 100 Wisconsin, 39. Upon writ of error to this court that judgment
was affirmed. Doherty v. Northern Pacific Railway Co., and
United States v. Northern Pacific Railroad Company, 177 U. S.
421 and 435.
After the above decisions by this court-which were rendered April 16, 1900,-the Secretary of the Interior revoked
the order canceling the company's above lists of selections,
and reinstated them. Shortly before those cases were argued
here, namely, on January 19, 1900,-and apparently to meet
the contingency of a reversal by this court of the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin-the Northern Pacific
Railway Company made conveyances with warranty to the

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

plaintiffs Humbird and Wdyerhaeuser, of all the lands, aggregating more than 10,000 acres, the title to which is here in
dispute. As appears fromthe record, these conveyances were
made after the Land Department had issued regulations to
facilitate the adjustment of claims under the act of July 1,
1898. It should be recalled here that the lands covered by
those conveyances were placed on the above lists of selections
filed by the railroad company, but those lists had not then
nor have they since received the approval of the Secretary..
It is contended by the plaintiffs that the result of the above
decisions in this court, adjudging the eastern terminis of the
Northern Pacific Railroad to be at Ashland, Wisconsin, and
not at Duluth, Minnesota, was that the odd-numbered alternate sections between Duluth and Ashland, on either side of
the railroad, as definitely located, to the extent and within
the limits prescribed, and not excluded from the grant of
July 2, 1864, were to be deemed public lands, from which that
grant could be supplied, and to which neither the defendants
nor their grantors after the definite location of the road as
shown by the company's accepted map of location could have
acquired any valid title, by entry or settlement, or by purchase, except from the railroad grantee, and that the defense
cannot be maintained without violating the rights that were
vested in the company in virtue of such definite location.
The defendants, of course, combat this view of the rights of
the parties, and insist that they are fully protected in their
claims by the act of 1898, all the provisions of which, as we
have seen, ,were accepted by the railroad company.
In the statement accompanying the certified questions it is
set forth that prior to the passage of the act of July 1, 1898,
the Secretary of the Interior had, pursuant to his original
ruling as to the eastern terminus of the railroad, caused patents to be delivered to defendant settlers or their grantors for
about 3,400 acres of the lands involved in this suit; that at the
time of the passage of that act about 2,800 acres of the lands
in question had been entered by defendant settlers or their

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

grantors prior to January 1, 1898, but no patents therefor had
been issued; that after January 1, 1898, the settlers or their
grantors were permitted to enter about 5,000 acres of the lands
here in controversy. The situation is thus described in the
statement sent up by the Circuit Court of Appeals: Of the lands
claimed by the plaintiffs as successors in interest of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company about 3,400 acres thereof were
held by the appellees under patents issued by the Government
prior to July 1, 1898; for the residue of the lands the settlers
held final receipts and final certificates, such final receipts and
final certificates, as respects about 5,000 acres, being for tracts
entered subsequent to January 1, 1898. In reference to the
lands for which final receipts and certificates have been issued
nothing, so far as appears, remains to be done by the Land
Department except the issuing of patents.
The relief sought is a decree declaring, among other things,
that the lands described in the exhibit attached to the bill and
all the timber standing or lying thereon belong to the plaintiffs; that the entries, locations, final certificates, land office
receipts and patents, under which the several defendants
claim, be adjudged to be void and removed as clouds from the
titles of the plaintiffs, and the defendants severally enjoined
from asserting any title by virtue thereof; and that such of the
defendants as hold patents may be declared to hold as trustees
for the plaintiffs in respect of any title conveyed by such patents, or any timber, cut or uncut, on such lands.
The questions propounded to this court by the Circuit Court
of Appeals are these:
"Is the act of July 1st, 1898, applicable to the determination of the rights of the parties to the 3,400 acres of land which
were patented to the appellees or their predecessors in interest
prior to the adoption of the act of July 1st, 1898?
"Has the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, or any court, jurisdiction as respects the
lands in controversy entered subsequent to January 1st, 1898,
and for which the settlers hold final receipts or certificates,

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

to adjudicate the rights of the parties to this action in respect
to said lands in advance of the issuance of patents therefor
by the executive branch of the Government, or should the
courts decline jurisdiction until the Government has divested
itself of the legal title to the lands by the issuance and delivery
of patents?"
Mr. William W. Billson and Mr. Charles W. Bunn, with
whom Mr. Chester A. Congdon, Mr. H. Oldenburg and Mr.
James B. Kerr were on the brief, for appellants:
After these lands had been regularly selected by the railroad company, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, in lieu of unsatisfied and appropriate losses from
place limits, they were wrongfully and finally awarded by the
Secretary of the Interior to subsequent entrymen, through
error of law as to the eastern terminus of the road; equity will,
therefore, enforce the superior right of the railroad company
or its grantees. This would be so even though the Secretary's
approval of the selections had been expressly required by the
terms of the act, and had been withheld or refused. St. Paul
R. R. Co. v. Winona & St. P. R. R. Co., 112 U. S.720; Sage v.
Swenson, 64 Minnesota, 517; So. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Wiggs, 43
Fed. Rep. 333, 338; McHenry v. Nygaard, 72 Minnesota, 2, 12;
Groeck v. So. Pac. R. R. Co., 102 Fed. Rep. 632.
Under these circumstances, the courts will decide any questions of fact'which, by its error of law, the Department of the
Interior was led to ignore. Cunningham v. Ashley, 14 How.
377; Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 How. 328; Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S.
537; Duluth & Iron Range R. R. Co. v. Roy, 173 U. S. 587;
Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S.498; Bisson v. Curry, 35 Iowa,
72.
No controversies are pending in the department even as
to such of the lands as are unpatented. Final certificates
have been issued in all cases to the entrymen, and stand as the
unrevoked, though legally erroneous, final judgment of the
department in favor of their claims. Under such circum-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

195 U. S.

stances, equitable relief is not prematurely sought. Moore
v. Robins, 96 U. S. 530; Berthold v. McDonald, 22 How. 334;
Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372; S. C., 26 Pac. Rep. 196;
Pierce v. Frace, 26 Pac. Rep. 192.
In the recent cases of Bockfinger v. Foster, 190 U. S. 116,
and Cosmos Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 301, this view of
the law appears to have been tacitly admitted, although under the circumstances existing in those cases relief was denied.
With respect to the unpatented lands, the complainants are
in any event entitled to relief by way of injunction. La
Chapelle v. Bubb, 69 Fed. Rep. 481.
Threats of trespass are unnecessary. A reasonable probability of trespass or a well grounded apprehension of it may
arise from the nature of the situation. Osborn v. U. S. Bank,
9 Wheat. 738, 840.
The withdrawal for the benefit of the Lake Superior &
Mississippi Railroad Company on location of its general route,
of lands not falling within its ultimate place limits, did not
operate to exempt such lands from the subsequent grant to
the Northern Pacific Company. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620; Menotti v. Dillon, 167 U. S. 703; United
States v. Oregon &c. R. R. Co., 176 U. S. 28; Kansas Pac.
R. R. Co. v. Atchison &c. Co., 112 U. S. 414.
Every case in which a withdrawal for the benefit of a railway company has been held to segregate the land as against
subsequent legislative grants has been the case of a withdrawal
on definite location. Spencer v. McDougal, 159 U. S. 62, distinguished.
In all cases holding that only those lands are a part of the
public domain within the meaning of land grant acts, which
are open to entry under the general land laws, the withdrawals
had been made for the protection of a right which, if all the
facts could be known, might appear to have become actually
vested. Withdrawals of that character it is presumptively
the intention of Congress to respect in making subsequent
grants. This court has held (see cases cited supra) that with-

.HUMBIRD v.. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

drawals on definite location are to be treated 'as withdrawals
of that class, while withdrawals on location of general route
are not to be so treated, but are to be regarded as made merely
for the accommodation of the company, in order that its rights
may have opportunity to attach to the withdrawn lands,
subject however to such legislative dispositions as in the
interim may be made of them.
These lands having been sold by the railway company
prior to their identification by the lists of the Secretary of the
Interior for relinquishment by the railroad company under
the provisions of the Sundry Civil Act of July 1, 1898, are,
by the express terms of the second proviso of that act, exempted
from the company's obligation to relinquish. Interpreted in
general terms, the case presented by that proviso is that of a
statute which makes the legality or force of a transaction (in
this instance the service of the Secretary's lists), dependent in
part upon the existence of a particular condition (in this instance, whether lands are sold or unsold), without expressly
declaring whether it is at the time of the transaction or at the
date of the statute, or at the date of its acceptance, or at some
other time that the prescribed condition must exist. This
is the natural and grammatical and necessary construction of
the law if the clause relative to sold lands is to have any
practical operation whatever. No one could have conceived
it to be necessary to expressly except from the company's
obligation to relinquish lands which it had already sold or
contracted prior to the act of 1898. The sole object of the
clause relative to sold lands was to enable the company to
continue its business, and the handling of its grant in the
ordinary course, during the many years which would be likely
to elapse before the adjustments contemplated by the act of
1898 should have been fully accomplished. Such also is the
construction suggested by the analogy of the acts in pari
materia to this. Act of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. 194; Act of
October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 674.
The act of 1898 is inapplicable to land patented before its

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

195 U. S.

passage, and is inapplicable to lands purchased by others
than actual settlers. If applicable to such purchases as those
under the timber and stone land act, it is only in those instances in which the purchase was made or consummated by
payment of the money prior to January 1, 1898.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Campbell and Mr. A. C.
Campbell, Assistant Attorney, with whom Mr. F. W. Clements,
Assistant Attorney, was on the brief, for the United States,
intervenor:
In view of the provision in ยง3 of the act of July 2, 1864,
that "other lands shall be selected by said company
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior," and of
the provision in the joint resolution of May 31, 1870, that
"said company shall be entitled, under the directions of the
Secretary of the Interior, to receive so many sections," etc.,
the Land Department has uniformly held that until an indemnity selection made by the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company is approved by the Secretary of the Interior the title
to the lands covered thereby remains in the Government, and
that no right vests in the company until such approval is given.
Re Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 2 L. D. 820; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v.
Miller, 7 L. D. 100, 123; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Walters, 13
L. D. 230, 233; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Blain, 27 L. D. 361, 363;
Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Fly, 27 L. D. 464, 466; Meister v. St. P.,
M. & M. R. Co., 14 L. D. 624; Dunnigan v. N. P. R. R. Co.,
27 L. D. 467. The first ruling in this respect was made in
May, 1883, and has been adhered to ever since. It should
not therefore be overthrown by the court, unless plainly
erroneous. Hewitt v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139, 156; Hawley v.
Diller, 178 U. S. 476, 488. In passing upon other land grant
acts containing similar provisions this court has upheld this
ruling of the Land Department. Ryan v. Railroad Company,
99 U. S. 382; Sioux City &c. R. R. Co. v. Chi., M. & St. P. Ry.
Co., 117 U. S. 406; Wis. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Price County, 133
U. S. 496, 511; United States v. M., K. & T. Ry. Co., 141 U. S.

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

358, 373; So. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Bell, 183 U. S. 675, 690; Clark
v. Herrington,186 U. S. 206. The foregoing and the following
decisions of this court, via, United States v. McDaniel, 7 Pet.
1, 14, 15; Williams v. United States, 138 U. S. 514, 524; Knight
v. U. S. Land Assn., 142 U. S. 161, 177; Catholic Bishop oj
Nesqually v. Gibbon, 158 U. S. 155, 167; Caha v. United States,
152 U. S. 211, 222; Kan. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Atchison &c. R. R.
Co., 112 U. S. 414, 421; Barney v. Winona &c. R. R. Co., 117
U. S. 228, 232; New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261, 267;
Michigan Land &c. Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589,'592; Nor. Pac.
R. R. Co. v. Musser-Sauntry Co., 168 U. S. 604, 611; Cosmos
Exploration Co. v. Gray Eagle Oil Co., 190 U. S. 301, 308;
Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316, 324, settle beyond
controversy the following propositions:
1. Upon the Land Department is imposed the duty of administering the Northern Pacific Railroad land grant, and it
is clothed with power and authority to prescribe rules and
regulations to that end, which necessarily includes the manner
of making indemnity selections by said company, its successors and assigns.
2. It is the duty of the Land Department to pass upon and
determine all questions touching the validity of indemnity
selections, including the adjudication of adverse claims made
for the lands selected, and if found to be legal in all respects,
to approve the selections; otherwise to reject them.
3. No title passes from the Government, nor does any vested
right attach to lands within a Northern Pacific Railroad indemnity selection unless and until such selection receives the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
4. When the indemnity selections are approved, the equitable title to the lands embraced therein passes under the grant.
5. The legal title does not pass from the Government until
patent has issued.
The Secretary of the Interior cannot arbitrarily refuse to
approve an indemnity selection made by the railroad company, or defeat such selection by failure or neglect to act

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for the United States.

'195 U. S.

thereon. Williams v. United States, 138 U. S. 514, 524; Brown
v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 478; Dunnigan v. Nor. Pac. R. R.
Co., 27 L. D. 467, 469. He has not finally passed upon these
selections; that he must act upon them and determine all
questions affecting their validity before the matters complained of can be carried into the courts by any person claiming an interest in the lands by reason of the indemnity selections. New Orleans v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261; Germania Iron
Co. v. United States, 165 U. S. 379; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173
U. S. 475, and until approved, there are no selections in fact,
only preliminary proceedings.
In respect to equitable rights to public lands this court
has held:
1. That until the legal title passes from the Government,
inquiry as to all equitable rights comes within the cognizance
of the Land Department. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473,
476. But until the title has passed to an individual the
equities subject to which he holds it cannot he enforced in
the courts. Marquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473, 475.
2. Until the legal title to public land passes from the Government the Land Department has jurisdiction to determine
the question whether or not the equitable title has passed.
Michigan Land and Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 593;
Hawley v. Diller, 178 U. S. 476, 488. But pending the determination of this question by the Land Department the
courts will not pass upon the same in controversies between
individuals, but will leave it to be determined by the Land
Department. Litchfield v. Register and Receiver, 9 Wall. 575,
578; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 396; New Orleans
v. Paine, 147 U. S. 261; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473;
Cosmos Co. v. Gray Eagle Co., 190 U. S. 301, 308.
3. After the Land Department has passed upon all disputed
questions of fact and finally determined that the equitable
title to public lands has passed from the Government, but not
before, the courts may inquire into and determine controversies between individuals in respect to the validity of such

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

equitable title, together with individual rights claimed thereunder, and will accept the findings of the Land Department
as conclusive upon all questions of fact. Moore v. Robbins,
96 U. S. 530; Marquez v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473; Johnson v.
Drew, 171 U. S.92, 99; Clark v. Herrington,186 U. S. 206, 210.
Within the principles as above set forth the courts are
without jurisdiction in this case, so far as the unpatented
lands are concerned, to grant the relief prayed for by the
complainants for the reasons: (1) The legal title is still in the
United States; (2) the Land Department has jurisdiction to
determine the question whether or not the equitable title has
passed; (3) the record shows that the Land Department is now
considering this question and has not made a finding upon
any questions of fact which may be involved.
It is not a fact, as alleged by complainants, that the Land
Department has passed upon the asserted rights of the respective parties to the entered lands, nor has it decided that patents shall issue upon the entries. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 26
L. D. 265. Until it does finally pass upon the asserted rights
of such parties to these lands and decides to issue patents
therefor, no vested rights attach thereto. While it is true
that when the right to a patent once becomes vested, it is
equivalent, so far as the Government is concerned, to a patent
actually issued, Barney v. Dolph, 97 U. S.652, 656; Stark v.
Starrs, 6 Wall. 402, 418; Simmons v. Waggoner, 101 U. S.260;
it is equally true that the right to a patent to public land does
not become vested "as against the United States until all the
prerequisites. for the acquisition of the title have been complied With, Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330, 338; nor until
conflicting claims, if any, to the lands have been finally determined by the Land Department. Cases cited supra. The
Land Department retains jurisdiction in respect to public
lands until patent has issued. United States v. Schurz, 102
U. S.396; Knight v. U. S. Land Association, 142, U. S.161.
Whether the erroneous decision of the Secretary of the
Interior with respect to the eastern terminus of the Northern
voL. oxv-32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

Pacific land grant involved merely a question of law, a mixed
question of law and fact, or only of fact, the entries in question made because of such erroneous decision are, nevertheless, subject to inquiry by the Land Department and may be
and should be canceled by it if found to be illegal. Marquez
v. Frisbie, 101 U. S. 473; United States v. Schurz, supra;Beley
v. Naphtaly, 169 U. S. 353, 364.
Mr. Benton Hanchett and Mr. H. H. Hoyt for Avery and
other appellees.
Mr. Luther C. Harrissubmitted a brief for Alger and other
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is appropriate at the outset to refer to certain allegations
of the bill which bring the determination of the case within a
very narrow compass and make it unnecessary to consider
some matters referred to by counsel. After setting out in
detail the various steps taken by the railroad company to
acquire a right to the lands in dispute, the bill alleges that
"but for the vested rights" of the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company and its grantees the several tracts of land in question would have been unappropriated public lands open to the
several kinds of entries or location made with respect to them,
severally; also, that "the several applications and proceedings
with respect to the said several entries were in due form, and
regularly conducted, as required by law, and, in the absence of
the vested rights of the said Northern Pacific Railroad Company
and its grantees in the said premises, would have been operative
and effectual to invest the several entrymen of said lands with
complete equitable title thereto, each of such entries and locations having been finally receipted for, allowed and approved
by the proper land officers of the United States; the only act

HUIBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

remaining for the United States or its officers to perform with
respect to such entries being the issuance of the patent in cases
where the patent has not already issued;" and that all of the
said entries and locations of lands referred to in the exhibit
filed with the bill were allowed, and the final certificates (and
so far as issued the patents) issued therefor "under a mistake
of law founded upon a certain erroneous ruling by the Secretary of the Interior, to the effect that the said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, and their successors in interest, were
not entitled to any lands by virtue of said act of Congress,
approved July 2, 1864, and said joint resolution approved
May 31, 1870, granting lands to said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, east of that point on the line of said Northern
Pacific Railroad where the same crosses the line of the St.
Paul and Duluth Railroad, known as Thompson Junction."
Obviously, the first inquiry should be as to the object and
scope of the act of 1898. Upon that point we do not think
any doubt can be' entertained, if the words of the act be interpreted in the light of the situation, as it actually was at the
date of its passage. Here were vast bodies of land, the ight
and title to which was in dispute between a railroad company
holding a grant of public lands, and occupants and purchasers
-both sides claiming under the United States. The disputes
had arisen out of conflicting orders or rulings of the Land
Department, and it became the duty of the Government to
remove the difficulties which had come upon the parties in
consequence of such orders. The settlement of those disputes
was, therefore, as the Circuit Court said, a matter of public
concern. If the disputes were not accommodated, the litigation in relation to the lands would become vexatious, extending o- er many years and causing great embarrassment.
In the light of that situation Congress passed the act of 1898,
which opened up a way for an adjustment upon principles
that it deemed just and consistent with the rights of all concerned-the Government, the railroad grantee, and individual
claimants. The railroad company evinced its approval of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

action of the legislative department by a prompt acceptance
of the act, in its entirety. By such unqualified acceptance
the railroad company agreed that, so far as it had any claim
to the lands in dispute, whatever the act of Congress required
to be done might be done.
Promptly after the passage of that act the Land Department set about to administer its provisions, and to that end,
as we have said, issued regulations for the guidance of all
concerned.
During the progress of this work of administration, the
railroad company, by conveyances to the present plaintiffs,
assumed to pass such interest as it had in the lands here in
question, with the effect-it is now claimed by the plaintiffs
-to withdraw or exempt all the lands so sold from the operation of the act. The plaintiffs rest this claim upon that part
of the act providing that the railroad grantee or its successor
in interest "shall not be bound to relinquish lands sold or contracted by it or lands it uses or needs for railroad purposes,
or lands valuable for stone, iron, or coal." (See Par. 3, ante,
p. 486.)
We have seen that the act (Par. 2, ante, p. 486) made it the
duty of the Secretary of the Interior to ascertain from time
to time, and cause to be prepared and delivered to the railroad grantee or its successor in interest, a list or lists of the
several tracts purchased, settled upon or occupied, and claimed,
at the date of the act, by such settlers, purchasers or occupants, their heirs and assigns, according to the smallest Government subdivision. And the act provided that the railroad
grantee or its successor should accept said list or lists "as
conclusive, with respect to the particular lands to be relinquished by it." The contention of the plaintiffs, stated more
fully, is, in effect, that it was competent for the company,
notwithstanding its acceptance of the act, to take out of its
operation any lands embraced by its terms, by simply selling
or contracting to sell them before the delivery to it or to its
successor in interest of the lists above mentioned. In other

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

words-for the contention comes to that-the railroad company, so far as the act of 1898 was concerned, could, notwithstanding the acceptance of its provisions and on the day after
such acceptance, have sold or contracted to sell its right, title
and interest in and to all the lands embraced by those provisions. This would have left no lands whatever to which the act
could apply. Such a result would have left unsettled all the
disputes relating to any lands which the company chose, in its
own interest, to sell while the Land Department was proceeding under the statute. We do not believe that Congress intended that it should be in the power of the railroad company
in any such mode to defeat the operation of the act. Congress, manifestly, had reference to the situation as it was when
the act of 1898 was passed.
If any rights had become vested in the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company which could not, against or without its
consent, be effected by an enactment like that of 1898, then
the objection to legislation, on the ground that it interfered
with vested rights, was waived by the acceptance of the act
by its successor in interest; for it was entirely competent for
the latter company, if it succeeded to all the rights of the
railroad grantee, to agree to such a settlement as that devised
by Congress. The rights acquired by the definite location of
the road, and any selection of lands based thereon, became,
upon the acceptance of the act, and so far as that company
was concerned, subject to such settlement as the Land Department might legally make under that act. It could not
by any sale or contract, made after the acceptance of the act,
interfere with the full execution of its provisions. And the
plaintiffs who claim to have purchased from the successor in
interest of the railroad grantee can occupy no better position
than the company from which they purchased. They were in
a sense purchasers pendente lite; for the Secretary of the Interior was, at the time, as he is now, engaged in administering
the act of Congress. By him or under his direction must be
ascertained the facts upon which depend the inquiry whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

the lands in question are within the indemnity limits of the
land grant to the railroad company and so situated that a right
to them attached by reason of the definite location of the road.
He must also inquire whether such lands were purchased, by
the respective defendants, directly from the United States, or
were settled upon or claimed in good faith by qualified settlers
under color of title or claim of right under a law of the United
States or ruling of the Interior Department, and whether the
purchaser, settler or claimant refuses to transfer his entry.
Upon these facts also depends the right of the railroad grantee
or its successor in interest (its rights being relinquished as
provided in the act) to select in lieu of the lands relinquished
an equal quantity of surveyed or unsurveyed public lands, not
mineral or reserved, and not valuable for stone, iron or coal,
and free from any adverse claim, or not occupied by settlers'
at the time of such selection, situated within any State or
Territory into which the railroad grant extends.
Now it is sought, in advance of final action by the Land
Department in execution of the act, to have it adjudged, as
between the parties to this suit, that the lands in dispute, claimed
by the defendants, cannot properly be placed on the lists
which the Secretary may deliver to the railroad grantee or its
successor in interest. But that is a question the solution of
which depends, in part at least, on facts within the province,
primarily, of the Secretary of the Interior to find. In short,
he, and he alone, must ascertain the facts which enter into the
question as to what lands are to go on the lists to be delivered
to the railroad grantee or its successor in interest. The court
should not, by any decree, as between parties who have no
contract relations with each other, attempt indirectly to control the authority and discretion of that officer to determine
what lands shall and what lands shall not be included in the
lists to be prepared under his direction. The plaintiffs cannot
invoke the aid of the court to have these questions concluded,
even as between them and the defendants, by an admission
made in their bill for the purposes of this case, that the final

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

certificates and final receipts held by the respective defendants will entitle them to the lands they claim but for the
"vested" rights acquired by the railroad company in virtue
of the definite location of its road. The court should not assume that they are embraced by the act, in order simply that
it may have an opportunity, as between the present parties, to
decide a question of law, which cannot appropriately arise
until at least all the facts are ascertained by the Land Department and final action is taken under the statute of 1898.
Although it may be true, as alleged in the bill, that the defendants, not holding patents, have received and hold final
certificates or final receipts, and that, so far as they are concerned, nothing more remains to be done in the Department
except to issue patents, yet it is in the power of the Department, even after decree here, in this suit, to reopen the case
as to each defendant of that class, and, sufficient grounds
existing therefor, recall or cancel such certificates or receipts.
The whole matter, in respect of the lands in dispute, is yet in
the hands of the Department undisposed of finally under the
act of 1898. Congress intended that the Department should,
within the limit and according to the rules prescribed by the
act of 1898, settle the disputes that had arisen between the
railroad grantee and settlers, although, after the matter has
passed beyond the jurisdiction of the Department, such settlements may become the subject of judicial inquiry for the protection of the rights of parties against any error of law committed by the Department.
Those views are in entire accord with the former decisions
of this court. In Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 87, it was
said: "This court has at all times been careful to guard itself
against an invasion of the functions confided by law to other
departments of the Government, and in reference to the proceedings before the officers intrusted with the charge of selling
the public lands it has frequently and firmly refused to interfere with them in the discharge of their duties, either by
mandamus or injunction, so long as the title remained in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

United States and the matter was rightfully before those
officers for decision. On the other hand, it has constantly
asserted the right of the proper courts to inquire, after the title
had passed from the Government, and the question became one
of private right, whether, according to the established rules
of equity and the acts of Congress concerning the public lands,
the party holding that title should hold absolutely as his own,
or as trustee for another." So, in Marquez v. Frisbie, 101
U. S. 473, 475: "We have repeatedly held that the courts will
not interfere with the officers of the Government while in the
discharge of their duties in disposing of the public lands, either
by injunction or mandamus.

.

.

.

After the United States

has parted with its title, and the individual has become vested
with it, the equities subject to which he holds it may be enforced, but not before.

.

.

.

We did not deny the right

of the courts to deal with the possession of the land prior to
the issue of the patent, 6r to enforce contracts between the
parties concerning the land. But it is impossible thus to
transfer a title which is yet in the United States." What was
said in the case just cited as to the power of the court to interfere, in certain cases, in advance of the issuing of the patent,
was no doubt in the mind of the Circuit Court when, in its
opinion in this case, it said, 110 Fed. Rep. 465, 472: "It is
unnecessary to decide whether a case may not arise when,
even while the disputed question as to the rights of contesting
parties to a tract of public land is pending or cognizable before
the Land Department, a court of equity may properly interfere, by injunction at the suit of one of the claimants, to prevent the other claimant from despoiling the land by waste,
and appropriating its substantial value, by denuding it of all
its merchantable timber, before any final decision upon the
disputed claims by the Land Department, which is only rendered by issuing the patent."
So, again, in United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 395:
"The Constitution of the United States declares that Congress shall have power to dispose of and make all needful rules

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and regulations respecting the territory and other property
belonging to the United States. Under this provision the sale
of the public lands was placed by statute under the control
of the Secretary of the Interior. To aid him in the performance of this duty, a bureau was created, at the head of which
is the Commissioner of the General Land Office, with many
subordinates. To them, as a special tribunal, Congress confided the execution of the laws which regulate the surveying,
the selling, and the general care of these lands. Congress has
also enacted a system of laws by which rights to these lands
may be acquired, and the title of the Government conveyed
to the citizens. This court has with a strong hand upheld the
doctrine that so long as the legal title to these lands remained
in the United States, and the proceedings for acquiring it were
as yet in fleri, the courts would not interfere to control the
exercise of the power thus vested in that tribunal. To that
doctrine we still adhere." As late as Bockfinger v. Foster, 190
U. S. 116, 126, we reaffirmed the principle, "that the courts
will not interfere with the Land Department in its control and
disposal of the public lands, under the legislation of Congress,
so long as the title in any essential sense remains in the United
States."
These principles are applicable to the particular scheme
devised by the act of 1898 in reference to the lands in dispute.
When the Land Department shall have done all that it can
do in execution of the act of Congress, as to any particular
lands in dispute, it will be time enough for interested private
parties claiming an interest in them to invoke the aid of the
courts for the determination of such questions of law as may
arise out of the action of the Department. It is true that no
order is asked here that will directly or in terms operate upon
the Land Department. But a decree is asked, as between the
parties now before the court, which must necessarily control
or affect the action of the Department in respect of matters
committed to it by Congress. Such interference by the court,
although between private claimants only, would be in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

appropriate, especially as to lands covered by the act of
1898.
What has been said is peculiarly applicable to the unpatented lands in dispute. It is equally applicable to lands
patented both before and after the passage of the act, if such
lands are in dispute and belong to either of the classes described
in the act of 1898. We agree with the Circuit Court that the
act "gives the option to keep or relinquish the disputed land
to the individual claimant in every instance. If he elects to
retain that land, it is to be listed by the Secretary in lists to
be furnished to the railroad claimant, who must relinquish,
and whose consent to this was given by the acceptance of the
act." In case of such relinquishment by the railroad company, it acquires a right to select other lands in place of those
retained by the individual claimant. If the individual claimant, having a patent, elects to surrender his right, then he must
reconvey to the United States, and will then be entitled to
select other lands in lieu of those surrendered. So that the
statute embraces both patented and unpatented lands, in
respect of which the railroad company or its successor in interest claims that a right thereto attached by the definite
location of its road or by selection, provided they are also such
lands as were originally "purchased directly from the United
States or settled upon or claimed in good faith by any qualified
settler under color of title or claim of right under any law of
the United States or any ruling of the Interior Department."
The duty of a court of equity not to interfere with parties in
the prosecution of their rights under the act, whereby the
execution of its provisions in advance of final action by the
Department. would be embarrassed by judicial decision, is
quite as imperative in cases of the patented lands in dispute
as in the cases of unpatented lands. This view is not at all in
conflict with those cases in which it has been held that after
a patent issued for public lands the only remedy for one who
claims the land, as against the patentee, is to bring a suit
against the person holding the patent, and obtain a decree de-

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claring the patentee a trustee for the party suing. This general principle does not apply to cases embraced by the act of
1898. That act is peculiar in its provisions, and contemplates
that the individual claimant of one of the classes described in
it may hold the land patented to him, if he elects to retain it,
and that the railroad grantee or its successor in interest can
be made whole by taking lieu lands in place of those claimed
in virtue of definite location or selection.
For the reasons stated, neither the claim of vested rights in
behalf of the railroad grantee, nor the contention that the
lands in dispute, having been sold to the plaintiffs, were not
for that reason embraced by the act of 1898, furnishes any
ground for interference by a court of equity or for the granting
of the relief asked.
This conclusion is fortified, if not absolutely demanded, by
another consideration, namely, that no title to indemnity lands
is vested until a selection be made by which they are definitely
ascertained, and the selection made approved by the Secretary
of the Interior. This principle is firmly established. A full
statement of it is found in Wisconsin Central R. R. v. Price
Coutnty, 133 U. S. 496, 511. The court there said: "He [the
Secretary] was required to determine, in the first place, whether
there were any deficiencies in the land granted to the company which were to be supplied from indemnity lands; and,
in the second place, whether the particular indemnity lands
selected could be properly taken for those deficiencies. In
order to reach a proper conclusion on these two questions he
had also to inquire and determine whether any lands in the
place limits had been previously disposed of by the Government, or whether any preemption or homestead rights had attached before the line of the road was definitely fixed. . .
Until the selections were approved there were no selections in
fact, only preliminary proceedings taken for that purpose;
and the indemnity lands remained unaffected in their title. Until
then, the lands which might be taken as indemnity were incapable of identification; the proposed selections remained the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

property of the United States. The Government was, indeed,
under a promise to give the company indemnity lands in lieu
of what might be lost by the causes mentioned. But such
promise passed no title, and, until it was executed, created no
legal interest which could be enforced in the courts." In New
Orleans Pacific Railway v. Parker, 143 U. S. 42, 57, 58, it was
said: "As to lands within the indemnity limits, it has always
been held that no title is acquired until the specific parcels
have been selected by the grantee, and approved by the
Secretary of the Interior." And in Michigan Land & Lumber
Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S.589, 592, 593, the court said: "Generally
speaking, while the legal title remains in the United States, the
grant is in process of administration and the land is subject
to the jurisdiction of the Land Department of the Government." To the same effect are Sioux City &c. Railroad v.
Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway, 117 U. S.406, 408; United
States v. Missouri &c. Railway, 141 U. S.358, 374; Brown v.
Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 479; Kansas Pacific Railroad v.
Atchison &c. Railroad, 112 U. S.414, 421; Barney v. Winona
& St. Peter Railway, 117 U. S.228, 232; Grinnell v. Railroad
Co., 103 U. S.739; St. Paul &c. Railroadv. Winona & St. Peter
Railroad, 112 U. S.720, 731; Cedar Rapids & Missouri River
Railroad v. Herring, 110 U. S.27.
Now, the lands here in dispute and claimed by the plaintiffs
as grantees of the Northern Pacific Railway Company (the
alleged successor in interest of the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company) are lands admittedly within indemnity, as distinguished from granted or place, limits. The mere filing of
lists of selections, after the acceptance of the map of definite
location of the railroad line between Duluth and Ashland,
gave the company no such title as could be enforced by the
courts in a suit between private parties. It is true the Government was under a promise to give the railroad company
lands in the indemnity limits to supply losses in place limits.
But, as adjudged in the above cases, that promise passed no
title. The promise will no doubt be fulfilled by the Govern-

HUMBIRD v. AVERY.
195 U. S.

Opiuion of the Court.

ment in due time, and in its own way. The selections not having been approved by the Secretary, the title remains in the
Government. So that the plaintiffs, having no greater rights
than those of the railroad grantee or its successor, has no. such
interest in the particular lands, specified in the railroad company's lists of unapproved selection, as entitles it, while the
title remains in the United States, and while these lands are
being administered by the Land Department, to ask a court
of equity to decide, as between them and the defendants, that
the latter could not by any entry or purchase acquire an interest after the acceptance by the Secretary of the railroad's
map of definite location.
But it is suggested that the final action of the Department
may be indefinitely postponed, to the great injury of the railroad grantee and those claiming under it. Delay in such
matters was a contingency which the alleged successor in interest of the railroad grantee must have taken into account
when accepting the act and assenting to the plan of settlement
embodied in it. The Land Department was not required to
complete its administration of the statute within any designated time. The act, upon its face, directs that the required
lists be prepared and delivered to the railroad company "as
soon as conveniently may be done." It cannot b.e assumed
upon thig record that the Department has not progressed with
the work of administration as rapidly as all the circumstances
and its convenience permitted. Even if the fact be otherwise,
it is not for a court of equity, by its decree to decide, in the
first instance, that the selections made by the railroad company of lieu lands shall be approved by the Secretary, or to
decide what'lands should be on the lists required to be furnished to the railroad granted under the act of 1898; or to
control directly or indirectly the work which Congress, with
the assent of the railroad grantee, has committed to one of the
Departments of the Government, or by an order interfere
with the prosecution by the defendants of their claims under
the act of 1898.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

We are of opinion that the bill should have been dismissed
upon the ground that a court of equity should not, in advance
of the final action by the Secretary of the Interior in respect
of lands embraced by the act of 1898, interfere with the regular
and orderly administration of its provisions by means of a
decree directed against claimants under that act. And without now expressing any opinion as to what questions may be
raised by a claimant after such final action by the Land Department under that act, we adjudge that such dismissal must
be without prejudice to any suit that may, according to established principles, be rightfully instituted by a claimant after
the jurisdiction of the Department in respect of any particular
lands has ceased. Thus modified, the decree of the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER took no part in the decision of this case.

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS COMPANY,
LIMITED.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.

No. 41. Argued November 3, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.

Under both the common and the civil law, in the absence of a stipulation
to the contrary, the character of the money current at the time fixed for
performance of, and not at the time of making, a contract is the medium
in which payment may be made.
Where there has been a bona fide dispute as to the medium of payment
under a contract and an agreement is finally reached that a payment in
one medium shall extinguish a larger amount in another medium, the
payment is a complete accord and satisfaction and the rule that a less

