OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

We are of opinion that the bill should have been dismissed
upon the ground that a court of equity should not, in advance
of the final action by the Secretary of the Interior in respect
of lands embraced by the act of 1898, interfere with the regular
and orderly administration of its provisions by means of a
decree directed against claimants under that act. And without now expressing any opinion as to what questions may be
raised by a claimant after such final action by the Land Department under that act, we adjudge that such dismissal must
be without prejudice to any suit that may, according to established principles, be rightfully instituted by a claimant after
the jurisdiction of the Department in respect of any particular
lands has ceased. Thus modified, the decree of the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER took no part in the decision of this case.

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS COMPANY,
LIMITED.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.

No. 41. Argued November 3, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.

Under both the common and the civil law, in the absence of a stipulation
to the contrary, the character of the money current at the time fixed for
performance of, and not at the time of making, a contract is the medium
in which payment may be made.
Where there has been a bona fide dispute as to the medium of payment
under a contract and an agreement is finally reached that a payment in
one medium shall extinguish a larger amount in another medium, the
payment is a complete accord and satisfaction and the rule that a less

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS CO.
195 U. S.

511

Statement of the Case.

sum although accepted in full satisfaction of a larger liquidated amount
is not binding as to the excess for want of consideration is inapplicable.

THE gas company, defendant in error, an English corporation, sued the city of San Juan, the plaintiff in error, to recover $14,600.60, alleged to be due for services in lighting
485 street lamps from November, 1899, to September 16, 1900.
Annexed to the petition was an account showing the items
from which the balance resulted. The city generally denied,
and pleaded that under the contract for lighting it had at
various times imposed fines upon the company for neglect of
its contract duty, which fines were a set-off, and extinguished
the sum sued for. A statement of account was also filed by
the city, showing the alleged set-off. Both the accounts
credited the gas company for lighting with $15,125.70. In
the account of the gas company that company credited itself
with several small items for labor and materials supplied to and
materials appropriated by the city, aggregating $246.42, and
for interest calculated at twelve per cent up to September 16,
1901, the items in question and the interest amounting to
$2,215.96, making the total credited to the company $17,588.08.
These sums were not in the account of the city. Whilst the
credit items in both accounts, therefore, agreed except as above
stated, there was this further difference: The account of the
gas company stated that the sums to its credit were payable
in gold or United States money; whilst the account of the city
stated such items as payable in Porto Rican currency, declared to be worth forty per cent less than United States gold
or currency. The gas company debited itself with various
payments made to it by the city on account of the services
rendered and for the sum of a certain ground rent, all amounting to $2,987.42, leaving in its favor the balance sued for.
The city's account, whilst debiting the company with payments in United States gold to the amount stated in the gas
company's account, treated the debt as being due in Porto
Rican currency, and figured the payments in gold as extinguishing a larger amount by forty per cent than the face value

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

of the gold. In addition the gas company was debited with
certain fines imposed and other charges, and was moreover
debited in Porto Rican money with two sums aggregating
$8,836.88, amounting, if paid in gold, to $5,332.13. These two
debits, it was recited in the account, were the sums in Porto
Rican money or its equivalent in gold, which the city was
bound to pay to the firm of Mullenhoff & Korber, to which
firm the gas company, with the consent of the city, had transferred a portion of its claims against the city in Porto Rican
money, to be paid in its equivalent in gold. By the result of
the debits against the gas company the items credited to it were
extinguished and the account balanced. Thus the substantial
difference between the two accounts arose from the fact that
one stated the debt to be payable in gold or United States
money, the other treated it as payable in Porto Rican currency.
Subsequently the city pleaded that it had paid to Mullenhoff & Korber the sum of $5,196.80 in United States gold, and
was entitled to due credit therefor, and it was thereafter agreed
between counsel that this amount had been paid under the
transfer in question. As will hereafter appear, $4,337.32 of
the sum was paid as the equivalent of $7,228.20 in Porto
Rican currency, the amount due for street lighting up to
June 1, 1900, if estimated in Porto Rican money, while the
balance of $859.48 was paid as satisfying the charge made
for street lighting in the month of June, 1900, also consisting
of a larger sum in Porto Rican money.
At the trial the undisputed proof showed that in 1875 the
city made a contract, to last for twenty-five years, with one
Steinacher for the lighting of the city, which contract, about
1878, was assigned to the gas company; that shortly after there
was a difference between the parties as to whether the sums
due under the contract were payable in Porto Rican money or
in current foreign money. As a result, all the payments up
to and exclusive of the items embraced in the suit were received by the gas company, under protest, in Porto Rican
currency. So far as any payments made on account of the

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS CO.
195 U. S.

513

Statement of the Case.

items embraced in the suit and stated in both accounts, it was
undisputedly shown that they were made in United States
gold. There was proof tending to show that the city in making them insisted that the gold should extinguish its equivalent amount in Porto Rican currency, whilst the company
claimed that the payments should only extinguish a sum equal
to the face value of the United States gold.
Concerning the transfer to the firm of Mullenhoff & Korber,
and the payment made by the city to that firm, it was indisputably shown as follows: That the gas company, being
in want of funds, had agreed to transfer to the firm a given
portion of its claim, and applied to the city to recognize the
assignment and to pay to the transferees the sum assigned,
and that action was taken on this request by the city and was
accepted in writing by Scott, representing the gas company,
as follows:
"I, Ramon Negron Flores, secretary of the city council of
the city of San Juan, hereby certify, that at the meeting held
by the city council of San Juan, on the eighteenth day of this
month, the following resolution was passed:
"20.-The president of the city council declared that Mr.
Scott, the contractor of the public lighting for the city, and
Mr. Korber, a member of the firm of Mullenhoff and Korber
of this city had called on his office and stated that the amount
of seven thousand two hundred and twenty-eight pesos and
eighty-seven cents, Porto Rican currency, total amount of
the credit due to Mr. Scott, on account of his services as contractor from November of the year one thousand eight hundred ninety-nine, to last May, being deducted the amounts
already collected by the said contractor, should be delivered
to the above said firm, to the credit of which Mr. Scott wishes
this amount to be passed.
"The city council agreed with the declarations of the president, and passed the resolution considering the said balance of
seven thousand two hundred and twenty-eight pesos with
eighty cents equivalent of four thousand three hundred and
VOL. cxov--33

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

thirty-seven dollars and thirty-two cents in favor of the firm of
Mullenhoff & Korber, being therefore the municipal corporation relieved from any compromise with Mr Scott concerning
the said amount, without any prejudice to the resolutions to
be passed some time in the future, about the claims previously
filed by the said contractor.
"And to begin the respective proceedings, I write and sign
this declaration in San Juan of Puerto Rico this twenty-second
day of June of the year one thousand nine hundred.
(Signed)
R. NEGRON.
"On twenty-second June, being present Mr. Scott and Mr.
Korber, the latter acting as representative of the firm, of which
he is a partner, I notified them the above resolution, and they
affixed their signature as a proof of their acquiescence to the
same, declaring at the same time, that the amount of the account of the month of June of this year, should be recognized
as due to the same firm, to which the said amount must be
paid. I certify it.
(Signed)
R. NEGRON.
(Signed)
MULLENHOFF & KORBER.
(Signed.)

L. A. ScoTT.
SAN JUAN, June 19th, 1900.

Let it be done. The Mayor,

EGOZCUE."

There was testimony, admitted without objection, tending
to show that at the time the city accepted this transfer it was
understood that the reservation made in the written agreement related only to fines which it was contended the city had
unjustly imposed on the company. The court rejected the
offer of the city to prove that the parties, by their conduct
prior to the period covered by the items sued for, had interpreted the contract as meaning that the payments were to be
made in Porto Rican money and not otherwise. The court
also refused to instruct, at the request of the city, that the
contract was payable in Porto Rican money, and charged that

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS CO.
195 U. S.

515

Opinion of the Court.

it provided for payment in foreign money, exclusive of Spanish
gold, which was current in the island at the time the contract
was made. The court further instructed that the payments
made by the city to Mullenhoff & Korber in gold should be
debited to the city at the face value of those payments, unless
the jury found that the minds of the parties had met on a new
contract to substitute Porto Rican currency for the foreign
current money stipulated by the contract. The court, moreover, refused the request of the city to charge that, if at the
time of the transfer to Mullenhoff & Korber, there was a compromise entered into between the parties by which the payment to the firm of a given amount in United States currency
should extinguish a larger amount of the debt due the company in Porto Rican money, that the parties were bound
thereb;, as to such payment. Besides, the jury were instructed that, as there was no proof concerning the fines
imposed by the city upon the company as stated in the account of the city, such items must be disregarded, and that
interest, as calculated in the account of the city not being
exigible under the local law, must also be disregarded.
There was a verdict and judgment thereon against the city
for $8,761.35, and this writ of error was prosecuted.
Submitted by Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Francis H.
Dexter and Mr. John Spalding Flannery were on the brief,
for defendant in error:
MR. JusTIcE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In order to come to the principal controversy covered by
the assignments of error we dispose of certain contentions
which we deem of miinor importance. We think the court
was right in instructing the jury that it must disregard the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

items as to fines charged by the city against the gas company,
because no proof was offered on the subject. Whilst it is true,
as asserted in the argument, that some reference was made to
such fines in the testimony of one or more of the witnesses,
such reference in no sense tended to establish that the fines
had been legally imposed. As to the assignment of error
relating to the refusal of the court to allow testimony for the
purpose of showing that even if, under the contract, payment
in foreign current money was required, the contract was tacitly
modified, we deem it unnecessary to express an opinion for
the following reasons: The record shows that subsequent to
the ruling complained of, without objection, testimony was
admitted establishing that although all the payments made
up to the first of the items embraced in the claim in suit, were
made by the city to the gas company in Porto Rican money,
nevertheless that such payments were only received by the
gas company under protest, asserting its right to be paid in
foreign current money. However conclusive on the gas company may have been the receipt by it of payment in a different medium from that which it asserted the contract required,
the fact of the protest operated to prevent the inference that
the medium actually received was admitted to be the one in
which future payments should be made.
With the questions just referred to out of the way, it is
apparent from the statement which we have made of the case
that the record requires us to decide only two questions,
first, In what money were the sums due under the contract
payable? and, sec6nd, The effect of the agreement concerning payment made by the city to Mullenhoff & Korber.
1st. In what currency were the sums due under the contract
payable?
The contract, of which only a translation is in the record,
was passed before a notary, and is voluminous, containing
in minute detail a recital of all the occurrences which took
place from the date of the first steps takeR to make a contract and its consummation.

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS CO.
195 U. S.

517

Opinion of the Court.

Excluding irrelevant details, it appears as follows:
Some time in 1874 the city advertised for bids for a contract for lighting. Proposals were received from a Mr. Steinacher and Mr. Olney. Steinacher, whilst proposing to bind
himself to light lamps for three dollars monthly for each lamp,
suggested that the city modify its request for proposals in
several particulars, one of which was that there should be
included in the contract the purchase by the contractor of
gas works then owned by the city. This suggestion was accepted, and preparatory to making a call for bids, after obtaining the authority of the provincial deputation of Porto
Rico, the city directed that the gas works be appraised by
certain city officials. This appraisement was made as follows:
Recapitulation:
Pesetas.
Value of the buildings ..........................
19,176.25
Fixed and loose materials in the gas works ........ 48,908.85
Fixed materials in the city ......................
10,624.00
Total amount ............................

78,709.10

The present appraisement amounting to 78,709.10 pesetas,
or $31,741.82 of the currency in commerce.
PORTO RIco, 26th of May, 1875.
The municipal architect.
(Signed)
DoMINGo SESMERO.
The city thereupon called for new proposals. Among the
many conditions exacted were, first, that the bidder should
agree to light street lamps at $3 monthly for each lamp, and
that payment for the same "will be made in the circulating
foreign moneyincommerce for the value thatitis received without any premium that will equalize it to the Spanish official current money;" that he should buy the gas works, appraised,
as we have above stated, at $78,709.10, Porto Rico money, at
its equivalent in foreign currency, $31,741.82; that the bidder
should furnish a guarantee of $6,000 in cash or a bond for

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

$9,000, to be secured by first mortgage on a house in the city,
satisfactory to the municipality. Many details were provided in the conditions; as to the manner in which the contractor should perform his duties; as to fines to be imposed
by the city for neglect in the quality and character of the light
furnished, and for various other delinquencies, and it was also
provided "the penalties for faults in the service and supply
of gas to the public will be imposed by the alcalde without
appeal."
Steinacher was the only bidder in answer to this call for
proposals. He offered "to take charge of the city service for
the amount of 33 currency for each lamp," and to buy the
buildings and apparatus, etc., for the sum of $22,000 in currency, instead of $31,741.82, as required by the requests for
bids made by the city. In his proposition, moreover, Steinacher tendered two houses, stating the fact to be that one of
them was encumbered by a prior mortgage in favor of the
municipality, which he, Steinacher, had given to guarantee a
prior contract existing between himself and the municipality.
In addition, his bid suggested various modifications in the
administrative provisions enumerated by the city in its conditions. The bid, not being in accord with the proposition
submitted by the city, was rejected. Negotiations then ensued, the result of which was that the city yielded as to the
administrative provisions, and Steinacher yielded as to the
price to be paid for the gas works, it being recited in the
proceedings of the city on the subject that, in order to terminate the difficulties, "Mr. Steinacher expressed himself disposed to the acquisition of the said buildings, etc., as published
in the Official Gazette of the 8th of June last, for the amount
of thirty-one thousand seven hundred and forty-one dollars
82 cents in currency, and to take under his charge the public
light at three dollars monthly for each lamp, at same currency
according to the price published." The houses tendered to
secure the bond were accepted by the city, and in order to give
the city a first mortgage a liquidation was had between Stein-

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS CO.
195 U. S.

519

Opinion of the Court.

acher and the city under the prior contract, and by this liquidation it was established that Steinacher owed the city $203
in "foreign currency," which he paid. To ascertain whether
the value of the houses was equal to the requirements of .the
city, they were appraised by the city officials in Porto Rican
money, and this sum was reduced to foreign currency, and as
the amount in foreign currency equaled the $9,000 required
by the conditions of the city, the houses were accepted and
a new mortgage for that amount was given. Under these
proposals and acceptance the contract was executed, conforming in all respects to the proposals and bids as modified
by the proceedings which we have narrated.
The contention that the $3 per month for lighting street
lamps was payable in Porto Rican money is based on the fact
that sometimes in the contract the sum to be paid is referred
to as in currency without any qualification. The arguments
would have cogency if the passages in the contract relied upon
stood alone, but its unsoundness becomes apparent by a consideration of the context of the contract. The estimate of
the property to be sold in Porto Rican money and its liquidation in foreign currency; the terms of the bid; the proposition
of Steinacher, which was accepted, to pay for the gas works
at the sum of the foreign current money to which the Porto
Rican money was reduced, and to do the lighting at $3 per
lamp in the same currency, the action of the city concerning the
liquidation of the prior account, and the mortgage upon the
house, all demonstrate that both the proposals of the city,
the acceptance by Steinacher and the contract fixed current
foreign money, exclusive of Spanish gold, as the medium in
which the service for lighting the street lamps was to be paid.
The court, therefore, was right in its instruction as to the
medium of payment required by the contract. We find, however, nothing in the contract to support the construction that
it required the payment to be made in foreign current money
circulating in the island at the time the contract was made,
instead of money of that character circulating at the time

OCTOBER TERMr, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

the payments were to be made. The general rule, under both
the common and the civil law, is that in the absence of a
stipulation to the contrary, the character of money which is
current at the time fixed for performance of a contract is the
medium in which payments may be made. Butler v. Horwitz,
7 Wall. 258; Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557; Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wall. 687; Commercial Code of Porto Rico, Art. 312;
Spanish Civil Code of Porto Rico, Arts. 1091, 1157, 1170;
Code Nap. Art. 1246; Aubrey & Rau. vol. 4, p. 158; Mourlon,
vol. 2, p. 749.
There was, therefore, error in instructing that the time
of making the contract was to be alone considered in determining the foreign current money for which the contract
provided. We think, however, such error was in no sense
prejudicial. This follows, because it was conceded that if foreign current money was required by the contract, money of
the United States current at the time the contract was made
was within the contemplation of the parties, and that such
money was also current in the island at the time when performance was due. From this it results that the rights of the
parties were in no way affected by the erroneous ruling.
2d. The effect of the agreement concerning the payment made
by the city to Mullenhoff & Korber.
On the face of the written agreement between the city and
the gas company it undoubtedly appears that a stated sum
of money, to be paid in United States currency, was to extinguish a larger sum in Porto Rican money.
As we have seen, there was testimony tending to show, and
none tending otherwise, that the reservation in the written
document concerning "claims previously filed by the said
contractor," and which were to be "passed some time in the
future," solely related to claims for fines which the city had
assessed against the gas company and the justice of which
the company disputed. The city asked the court to instruct
that if it was found that at the time of the agreement it was
stipulated by way of compromise that the larger sum owing

CITY OF SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS CO.
195 U. S.

521

Opinion of the Court.

at that time should be extinguished by the payment of the
lesser amount, the parties were bound. This request was refused and excepted to. The court, in its general charge, in
the fullest manner instructed the jury that, as the medium of
payment required by the contract was foreign current money,
payment in that money extinguished simply the amount paid
in foreign money, unless it was found that the minds of the
parties had met on an agreement engendering an entirely new
contract substituting Porto Rican money for foreign currency.
It is urged by the city that error to its prejudice resulted
from refusing to give the requested instruction. To sustain
this proposition the doctrine is invoked that where one receives in payment a different thing or medium from that called
for in the contract, such receipt is binding. Undoubtedly the
general rule obtains and is based on the premise that the discharge of a contract is a different thing from that for which
the contract provides, necessarily is an accord and satisfaction
as to the particular payment concerning which the different
thing is received. Sheehy v. Mandeville, 6 Cranch, 253, 263;
Very v. Levy, 13 How. 345, 357; Bull v. Bull, 43 Connecticut,
455; Neal v. Handley, 116 Illinois, 418; Dimmick v. Sexton,
125 Pa. St. 334.
True also it is that it has been settled by this court, Savage
v. United States, 92 U. S. 382, that this doctrine is applicable
to the receipt under protest in discharge of a particular payment of a different money medium from that which was required by the contract. Whilst we have not been referred to
any Spanish authority showing that these principles obtained
under the law in force in Porto Rico, as the doctrine rests upon
principles known to the Roman law (L. 17, C. De solut),
enforced under the Code Napoleon (Journal de Palais R~pertoire, v. 10, verbo paiement, p. 10, No. 117; Toulier, t.. 12,
p. 355; Duranton, t. 12, Nos. 79 and 80), we cannot hesitate
to conclude that the doctrine in question prevailed also in
the Spanish civil law in force in Porto Rico. Whether it is
applicable to the facts of this case is, then, the question.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

Now, whilst it may be at once conceded that the doctrine
in question is applicable to the payments made in Porto Rican
money, before the date of the first item sued for, it is equally
clear that it cannot be applied to the payments thereafter
made, including those to Mullenhoff & Korber, since they were
made in United States currency. The contention that these
payments in such money extinguished a larger sum than the
par value of the money paid reduces itself to this: that a
larger sum was satisfied by the payment of a lesser sum,
because there was an agreement to that effect. The gas company in effect insists that this cannot be sustained, because of
the well established rule, "that where a liquidated sum is
due, the payment of a less sum in satisfaction thereof, though
accepted as satisfaction, is not binding as such for want of
consideration." Chicago, M. & St. P. R. Co. v. Clark, 178
U. S. 353, 364, and authorities there cited.
Conceding, without so deciding, that such rule was controlling in Porto Rico, we think it is not applicable to the case
in han4. As pointed out by this court in the case just previously cited, the rule in question is subject, among others, to
the well established exception that it does not apply where,
at the time of the agreement, there was a dispute between the
parties, the subject matter of which dispute is embraced in
the agreement to extinguish a greater by a less amount. True
it is, as pointed out in Fire Insurance Association v. Wickham,
141 U. S. 564, it must appear that the alleged dispute really
existed and did not arise merely from an arbitrary denial by
one party of an obligation which was obviously due. Despite
the construction which we have given the contract, we think
it is quite clear that the proof established that there was a
bona fide dispute in this case. As we have seen, from the very
inception of the contract the parties differed as to the medium
of payment, the one-the city-insisting that it was Porto
Rican money; the other-the gas company-that it was foreign current money. During a period of fully twenty years
this controversy continued, and in every instance the gas

CITY OP SAN JUAN v. ST. JOHN'S GAS CO. 523
195 U.-S.

Opinion of the Court.

company, although protesting, accepted the city's view of
the contract, and by taking a different medium bound itself
as to tlose payments despite its protest. When the period
arrived when the company was no longer willing to so act
and stood upon its rights as it understood them, naturally the
city stood upon its asserted rights, and thus the parties were
at arm's length disputing their respective rights. If there had
been no agreement, the solution would have required judicial
action. When in view of this dispute an agreement was
reached that the payment should be made in United States
currency, and that the payment should extinguish a larger
amount estimated in Porto Rican currency, there was necessarily a compromise and settlement as to that payment
which put the transaction so settled exactly in the position
which had resulted from the action of the parties concerning
the payments made during the preceding period of more
than twenty years.
It follows from the foregoing that the court below erred to
the prejudice of the city in refusing the instruction asked by
it as to the result of the compromise, and that this error was
not cured by the general charge, which instructed the jury
that the compromise evidenced by the agreement must be
treated as inefficacious as to the particular items to which
it related, unless it was found that the minds of the parties
had met on an entirely new and independent contract.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the cause
is remanded with directions to set aside the judgment, and
grant a new trial.
Reversed.

