KAUFMAN v. TREDWAY.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

KAUFMAN v. TREDWAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 17. Argued October 24,1904.-Decided November 28,1904.
In an action by a trustee in bankruptcy to recover a preferential payment
the insolvency of the bankrupt at the time of payment and whether the
payee had reasonable cause to believe that a preference was intended
are questions of fact determined by the verdict of the jury.
The commencement of an action by a trustee in bankruptcy to recover a
preferential payment is a demand and he is entitled to interest from that
time.
One who after receiving a preferential payment from the bankrupt, loans
him money in good faith without security and which actually passes into
the bankrupt's possession, is entitled to have the amount loaned set' off
from the amount recoverable by the trustee.

ON August 20, 1898, Gustave Kaufman filed his petition
in bankruptcy and was subsequently adjudged and decreed a
bankrupt. W. T. Tredway was appointed trustee of his estate. On July 24, 1899, the trustee commenced suit in the
Court of Common Pleas, No. 3, .of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, to recover from Joseph S. Kaufman the sum of
$4,086.64, charged to have. been given, on August 4, 1898, by
the bankrupt to the defendant as a preference. The trial
resulted in a judgment in favor of the trustee for $1,086.64
and interest. This judgment was affirmed on appeal by the
Superior Court. An application for a further appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State was denied, and thereupon this
writ of error was sued out to review, the judgment of the
Superior Court. Section 60 of the bankrupt act is as follows:
"SEc. 60. a. A person shall be deemed to have given a
preference if, being insolvent, he has procured or suffered a
judgment to be entered against himself in favor of any person,
or madea transfer of any of his property, and the effect of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

195 U. S.

enforcement of such judgment or transfer will be to enable
any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his
debt than any other of such creditors of the same class.
"b. If a bankrupt shall have given a preference within four
months before the filing of a petition, or after the filing of the
petition and before the adjudication, and the person receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or his agent acting therein,
shall have had reasonable cause to believe that it was intended
thereby to give a preference, it shall be voidable by the trustee,
and he may recover the property or its value from such person.
"c. If a creditor has been preferred, and afterwards in good
faith gives the debtor further credit without security of any
kind for property which becomes a part of the debtor's estates,
the amount of such new credit remaining unpaid at the time
of the adjudication in bankruptcy may be set off against the
amount which would otherwise be recoverable from him."
30 Stat. 544, 562, c. 541, July 1, 1898.
Mr. Joseph A. Langfitt and Mr. William Kaufman for plaintiff in error:
The payment of $1,086.64 made August 4, 1898, was not
a voidable preference within ยง 60 of the bankrupt act.
As to the terms "insolvent" and "reasonable cause to believe" and proof necessary to establish same, see Perry v.
Booth, 80 N. Y. Supp. 706; S. C., 67 App. Div. 235; Sirrine v.
Stover-Marshall Co., 64 S. Car. 457, and cases cited; Harmon
v. Feldheim, 131 Michigan, 470; Congleton v. Schreihofer, 54
Atl. Rep. (N. J.) 144; Netter v. Refowich, 12 Dist. Rep. (Pa.)
196.
If the payment of $1,086.64 was a voidable preference, then
plaintiff is entitled to a set-off of $767 returned by him to the
bankrupt four days afterwards. No interest should have been
allowed. Collier on Bankruptcy, 3d ed., 369.
Mr. H. L. Castle, with whom Mr. William A. Stone was on
the brief, for defendant in error.

KAUFMAN v. TREDWAY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

Whether the bankrupt was insolvent on August 4, 1898,
when he paid the money to his brother, the defendant, and
whether the latter had reasonable cause to believe that it was
intended thereby to give a'preference, are questions of fact,
determined by the verdict of the jury, and not open to review
in this court. Hedrick v. A., T. & S. F. R. R. Co., 167 U. S.
673, 677; Bement v.. National Harrow Company, 186 U. S. 70,
83; Jenkins v. Neff, 186 U. S. 230, and cases cited in opinions.
It is suggested that the trial court erred in admitting testimony of transactions between the brothers some six or seven
months prior to the payment by the bankrupt to the defendant; that such transactions were too remote from the time of
the preference to throw light on the question of knowledge.
We think that the testimony, whether of much or little value,
was competent, and that it was not error for the court to admit it. Clune v. United States, 159 U. S. 590, 592.
We see no reason to doubt the propriety of allowing interest
on the claim from the commencement of the action. Such
commencement is itself a demand.
The principal contention, however, is that the state court
erred in ruling that the sum of $767, loaned by the defendant
to the bankrupt on August 8, could not be considered as a
set-off. It appeared that four days after he had received the
money paid to him in preference the defendant handed to the
bankrupt $767, on the latter's request for money to pay his
employ6s. There was no testimony tending to show what
became of this money, whether it was used in paying employ~s, or whether the payments, if made, were for wages
earned within three months before the date of the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy. All that appeared was
the fact of the loan and the expressed purpose thereof. Under
these circudistances the court instructed the jury that the
defendant had not established his claim to a set-off, as authorVOL. cxcv-18

\

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

ized by paragraph "c"

195 U. S.

of section 60. This presents a dis-

tinct question of law.

The trial court., and its views were approved by the Superior Court, held that the statute required not merely that the
creditor in good faith gave the debtor credit without security
and that the money or property in fact passed to the debtor
and became a part of his estate, but also that it remained such
until the time of the bankruptcy and was transferred to the
trustee, or at least that it was used in payment of preferred
debts. In its opinion, on a motion for a new trial, it
said:
"Evidence that the debtor got the money for another purpose certainly is not evidence that he turned it over to the
trustee. The most that defendant can ask-and this we would
probably hold-is that money shown to have been given and
used to pay a preferred debt would entitle the defendant to
a set-off."
It will be noticed that the words used in paragraph "c"
are not "the bankrupt's estate," but "the debtor's estate."
"Debtor" is also found in the preceding clause as descriptive
of the one to whom the credit is given. While the same person is both debtor and bankrupt, first debtor and then bankrupt, the use of the former term is suggestive of the time of
the transaction as well as the status of the recipient of the
credit. The paragraph further provides that "the amount of
such new credit remaining unpaid at the time of the adjudication in bankruptcy may be set-off." It is the non-payment
and not the fact that the property remains still a part of the
debtor's estate which entitles to a set-off. It would seem that
if Congress intended that which the trial court held to be the
meaning of the statute it would have said "which becomes a
part of the bankrupt's estate" or "which becomes and remains
a part of the debtor's estate until the adjudication in bankruptcy."
Further, Congress provided that the creditor act in good
faith. Thus it excluded any arrangement by which the cred-

KAUFMAN v. TREDWAY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

itor, seeking to escape the liability occasioned by the preference he has received, passes money or property over to the
debtor with a view to its secretion until after the bankruptcy
proceedings have terminated, or with some other wrongful
purpose. It meant that the creditor should not act in such a
way as to intentionally defeat the bankrupt act, but should let
the debtor have the money or property for some honest purpose. Requiring that it should become a part of the debtor's
estate excluded cases in which the creditor delivered the property to a third person on the credit of the debtor, or delivered
it to him with instructions to pass it on to some third party.
The purpose was that the property which passed from the
creditor should in fact become a part of -the debtor's estate,
and that the credit should be only for such property.
Still again, to require that the creditor should not only in
good faith have extended the credit and that the money or
property should have passed into and become a part of the
debtor's estate, but that he should also show the actual disposition thereof made by the debtor would in many cases
practically deny the creditor the benefit of a credit which he
had extended in good faith. Suppose three months and a
half before bankruptcy the creditor, in good faith, sells and
delivers a bill of goods to the debtor, a merchant, how difficult
it would be to show what had become of each particular article
on that bill, or what was done with the money received for those
that had been sold; and the same when, as in this case, money
was delivered to the debtor. If Congress had intended to
require such proof it would seem that it would have used
language more definite and certain. If the creditor has acted
in good faith, extended credit without security, and the money
or property has actually passed into the debtor's possession,
why should anything more be required? Has the creditor
not been already sufficiently punished when, having received
money or property in pogyment of a just debt, he is compelled
to refund that to the trustee because be believed, or had reason
to believe, that the debtor, in paying that debt, preferred him?

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

Why should he be punished in addition by the loss of the benefit of a credit given in good faith?
'We are of opinion that the state court erred in its construction of the statute and in peremptorily denying to the creditor
the benefit of the credit. For these reasons the judgment of
the Superior Court is reversed, and the case remanded to that
court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

FAYERWEATUER v. RITCH.
REYNOLDS v. RITCH.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 157, 158. Argued October 12, 13, 1904.-Decided November 28, 1904.

Where the appellant's contention is that the Circuit Court, by giving unwarranted effect to a judgment of a state court and accepting that judgment, which contained no finding of one of the fundamental facts as a
conclusive determination of that fact, deprived him of his property without due process of law, and that contention is made in good faith, and
under the circumstances, upon reasonable grounds, the application of the
Constitution is involved and this court has jurisdiction of a direct appeal
from the Circuit Court.
Where it appears that a question was distinctly put in issue and the
parties presented, or had an opportunity to present, their evidence, and
the question was decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, private
right and public welfare both demand that the question so adjudicated
shall, except in direct proceedings for review be considered as finally
settled and conclusive upon the parties.
The ordinary rule in cases tried by the court without a jury is that a judgment entered without any special findings is, like a general verdict in a
jury case, tantamount to a finding in favor of the successful party of all
the facts necessary to sustain the judgment.
While in some cases on a plea of res judicata evidence aliunde the record
is proper to show what particular questions were tried and determined

