BONET v. TEXAS CO.
Syllabus..

453

the company's unlawful practices nor promised their
abandonment, and left as a candidate the Independent,
toward which the unrenounced unlawful activities of the
company had been directed. We think the plant notices
as modified by the court's order fell far short of conveying "to the employees -the knowledge of a guarantee of
an unhampered right in the future to determine their
labor affiliations."
Other contentions of respondent have been considered
and found without merit.
The court below committed error in modifying the
Board's order. Accordingly, the cause is remanded to
the Court of Appeals with instructions to enforce the
Board's order without any modification.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

BONET, TREASURER, v. TEXAS COMPANY (P. R.),
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 132.

Argued December 11, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. To warrant reversal of a decision of the Supreme Court of Puerto
Rico on construction of local statutes the error must be manifest;
the interpretation must be inescapably wrong; the decision must be
patently erroneous. P. 470.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in overruling the following
conclusions of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, construing Island
statutes, viz.,
(a) That under § 9 of Act No. 102, 1925, an uninsured employer
could have an award of the Workmen's Relief Commission reviewed,
including the issue whether or not he was insured. Pp. 465, 471.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

(b) That in place of the provision of § 7 of that Act for collection by the Attoriey General of awards made against uninsured
employers, amendatory legislation had substituted Collection by the
Treasurer. Pp. 466, 472.
(c) That the Treasurer had power of distraint. Pp. 468, 472.
102 F., 2d 710, reversed; 52 P. R. Dec. 658; 53 id. 475, affirmed.

REVIEW by certiorari, post, p. 538, of a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed the Supreme
Court of Puerto Rico in a suit to enjoin the Treasurer
of the Island fruln enforcing by distraint ordersjof the
Puerto Rico Workmen's Relief Commission.
Mr. William CattronRigby, with whom Messrs. Nathan
R. Margold, B. Fernandez Garcia, and Enrique Campos
del Toro were on the brief, for petitione
Messrs. Lionel P. Marks and Jerrold H. Ruskin, with
whom Messrs. Harry T. Klein and T. K. Schmuck were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent brought this action in a Puerto Rico court
to enjoin the Treasurer of Puerto Rico from enforcing by
distraint, orders of the Puerto Rico Workmen's Relief
Commission awarding compensation for the death of each
of three labcrers while in the employ of respondent. The
Supreme Court of Puerto Rico interpreted the Workmen's Accident Compensation Act of Puerto Rico ' as not
permitting such collateral attack on orders of the Commission and affirmed a judgment dismissing the bill. 52
P. R. Dec. 658, 53 P. R. Dec. 475. On appeal (43 Stat.
936) the Circuit Court of Appeals vacated that judgment
and remanded the cayuse with directions to issue the in'Act No. 102, 1925, as amen.ded by Act No. 85, 1928 and Act No.
45, 1935,

BONET v. TEXAS CO.
463

Opinion of the Court.

junction. 102 F. 2d 710. We granted certiorari because
of the asserted violation by the Circuit Court of Appeals of
the well established rule that Puerto Rican tribunals must
not be overruled on their construction of local statutes in
absence of "clear or manifest error." Bonet v. Yabucoa
Sugar Co., 306 U. S. 505; 307 U. S. 613.
The theory underlying respondent's bill was that it
was an insured employer and therefore the awards should
have been paid out of the state fund,' and that its remedy
at law was not adequate. The bill so alleged, and
attacked the orders of the Commission adjudging that it
was not an insured employer. The cause was submitted, without an answer, on a stipulation which included,
inter alia, an admission by petitioner of "the ultimate
facts of the bill, except the conclusions of fact or of law
that it might contain." The Supreme Court of Puerto
Rico in effect treated this stipulation as a demurrer and
concluded that petitioner had not thereby admitted that
respondent was an insured employer. This seems to have
been a reasonable construction-certainly not manifest
error.
Treating the bill then as one brought by an uninsured
employer, the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico construed
the Act on two points: (1) the right of respondent to
appeal; (2) the power of petitioner to distrain.
Right to Appeal. It held that respondent had an adequate remedy at law under § 9 of the Act which provided
that "the employer may appeal from any decision of the
Commission when such decision is to the effect that the
accident is one for which compensation is granted under
this Act."' And it, indicated that on such appeal the
'As to the creation of that fund, see §§ 11, 27 of Act No. 102, 1925.
'Act No. 102, 1925, § 9. Thirty days were allowed for perfecting

the appeal. Id. A comparable provision for review is found in Act
No. 85, 1928, § 15, where ten days were allowed; and in Act No. 45,
,1935, § 11, where fifteen days are granted.

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

question of whether or not respondent was uninsured was
among the issues which could have been reviewed.' The
Commission, however, had directed the awards to the
Attorney General on April 24, 1928, for collection under
§ 7 of the Act, a section providing for collection of awards
against uninsured employers.' But eight yeard passed
and the Attorney General made no attempt to collect.
Respondent contended that it did not appeal under § 9
since it was waiting to defend, on the ground that it was
insured, an action by the Attorney General under § 7.
And though a new method of collection of such awards
was created within a few months after these awards were
made,6 respondent contended that the new law, in pro4

This point seems to have been first decided by the Supreme Court

of Puerto Rico on a writ of certiorari brought by respondent to nullify
the orders of the Commission here involved. The court -held that the
writ did not lie since it applied only to review the actions of courts.
40 P. R. R. 456.
'Sec. 7 of Act No. 102, 1925, provided in part:
"In the case of an accident to a laborer while working for an employer who in violation of the law is uninsured, the Workmen's Relief
Commission shall determine proper compensation, plus expenses incurred by it, and shall report the same to the Attorney General for
institution of proper action, in a court of competent jurisdiction,
against said employer to recover the aforesaid sum; Provided, however, That the commission shall grant the employer as well as the
laborer in the case an opportunity to be heard and to defend themselves, and shall conform, as far as possible, to the practices observed
by the courts of justice."
'Act No. 85, 1928, became effective ninety days after its approval
on May 14, 1928. § 58. This Act by § 7 created an Industrial Commission to administer the Act. And by § 25 collection of claims
against uninsured employers was provided -as follows:,
"In case of an accident to a laborer while working for an employer
who in violation of the law is uninsured, the Industrial Commission
shall determine proper compensation, plus expenses incurred by it, and
shall certify its decision to the Treasurer of Porto Rico who shall
assess said compensation, plus expenses, on the employer and collect
them from him; and both such compensation and such expenses shall

BONET v. TEXAS CO.
463

467

Opinion of the Court.

viding that pending litigation was not to be affected,"
preserved its former opportunity to defend under § 7.
To this the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico replied that
the purpose of the saving, clause in the new act 8 was
merely to preserve the rights of workmen to compensation, not to make the new procedure inapplicable to pending cases in contradiction to the well settled rule that
procedural statutes are immediately applicable. It also
added that in any event the procedure of § 7 had not
survived the issuance of the order by the Commission
since by the 1935 amendment that procedure was to be
"followed in such litigations or claims, until their termination" s-the issuance of the orders of the Commission
having terminated the case within the meaning of the
amendment.
constitute a lien on all the property of said employer, with the same
legal effedt and priority as if it were a tax levied -on such property;
Provided, however, That the Commissioner shall grant both the employer and the laborer in the case an opportunity to be heard and
to defend themselves, and he shall conform, as far as possible, to the
practices observed by the district courts."
This procedure, according to the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico,
took the place of that provided by § 7 of the 1925 Act, supra, note 5,
by reason of § 57, "all laws or parts of laws in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed."
On September 14, 1936, the Industrial Commission issued an order
requesting the petitioner to levy an attachmeat on properties of
respondent.
'Act No. 85, 1928, § 48, provided: "The provisions of this Act shall
in no way affect pending litigation relative to workmen's compensation under previous laws."
"Act No. 45, 1935, § 34, also provided:
"The provisions of this Act shall in no way afqect pending litigations or claims relative to workmen's compensation under previous
laws. The procedure followed in such litigations or claims, until their
termination, shall be in accordance with the laws in force on the date
of the accident, and the workmen shall be entitled to such sum of
money as may .be prescribed by said laws."
' Supra, note 8.

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the. Court.

308 U. S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals. disagreed with this construction of the Act. It held that § 9 gave an appeal
only to insured employers and that only § 7 provided for
-review of orders issued against those who were uninsured.
It said that when § 9 stated that "the employer may
appeal from qny decision of the commission when such
decision is to the effect that the accident is one for which
compensation is granted under this Act," it meant that
only insured employers could appeal since the compensa.tion granted by the Act was payment out of the state
fund.'" Hence, in its view, the orders of the Commission here in question were "to the effect" that the accident
was not one for which compensation was granted under
the Act, since the Commission had adjudged respondent
to be uninsured. Consistently with that construction it
held that the remedy of an aggrieved uninsured employer
was to defend any suit brought under § 7. For in its
view, the procedure under § 7 was not abolished by the
amendments, the issuance of the orders of the Commission not having terminated the case within the meanif/g
of the saving clause quoted above. Accordingly, it held
that unless petitioner were restrained from collecting the
awards, respondent would be deprived of its day in court.
Power of Petitioner to Distrain. The Supreme Court
of Puerto Rico concluded that petitioner had the power
The Circuit Court of Appeals referred to § 2 of the 1925 Act which
provided in part:
"This Act shall apply to every employer who employs any laborer
or employee whose wages do not exceed the sum of fifteen hundred
(1,500) dollars computed annually; Provided,. That pursuant to the
provisions of this Act, compensation shall be paid to injured laborers
who become disabled or who lose their lives through accidents originating from any act or function inherent in their work or employment
and occurring during the course of their, employment as a consequence thereof or from occupational diseases or death due to such
occupation contracted in any work performed by administration under
the direction of the Insular Government, payable from the government
trust fund."

BONET v. TEXAS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

463

to distrain by virtue of the amendments to the Act made
subsequent to the issuance of the orders of award. By
the 1928 amendments 1 suinmary procedure was authorized for collection of a claim "as if it were a tax levied on
such property."' § 25. Although that phrase was eliminated by the 1935 amendments, § 15 of the latter made
such claims "liens preferred over any other charge or lien
for taxes or any other cause" with specified exceptions."
The court held that since under both 'the 1928 and 1935
amendments petitioner had the duty to collect the claims
and since under both the claim had the status or legal
effect of a tax, the power to distrain survived.
But the, Circuit Court of Appeals disagreed with that
conclusion. It reasoned that petitioner had no power
to collect in that manner since by § 15 of the 1935 amendments the person who was to "determine" the amount
of the claim and "certify its decision" ' to petitioner was
the Manager of the State Fund created under that law."
That person not being the same as the Workmen's Relief
Commission which had issued the orders in question, § 15
was not operative as respects respondent. This reasoning
"Supra, note 6.
'Sec. 15 of Act No. 45, 1935, provided in part:
"In case of an accident to a workman or employee while working
for an employer who, in violation of law, is not insured, the Manager
of the State Fund shall determine the proper compensation plus the
expenses in the case, and shall certify its decision to the Treasurer of
Puerto Rico who shall collect from the employer such compensation

'and expenses, both of which shall con stitute a lien on all the property
of the employer; -Provided,That said compensation and expenses are
hereby declared to be liens preferred over any other charge or lien
for taxes or any other cause, with the exception of the mortgage
credits, crop loans, and property tAxes on the encumbered property
for three years and the .current year, burdening the property of the
employer when it is attached to secure the said compensation and

expenses; .
Supra, note 12.
Act No. 45, 1935, § 6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

was interwoven with the conclusion of that court that the
new procedure provided by the 1928 and 1935 amend-

ments "5did not reach back to touch pending cases, a result contrary to the opinion of the Supreme Court of

Puerto Rico, as we have noted.
The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, on the other hand,
did not reach the precise point determinative of the power
of the Manager of the State Fund to certify an award
of the former Workmen's Relief Commission apparently
because it was tacitly admitted that that power existed,1"
if the remedy. provided by former § 7 had been abolished.
But however that may be, it did conclude that the Act
as amended, though not clear, was designed to give the
petitioner power to distrain and that the procedure
followed was authorized by law.
For over sixty years this Court has consistently recognized the deference due interpretations of local law by
such local courts unless they appeared to be clearly wrong.
From Sweeney v. Lomme, 22 Wall. 208, decided in 1874,
to Bonet v. Yabucoa Sugar Co., supra, decided in 1939,

repeated admonitions to that effect have been given.
That rule is founded on sound policy." As this court
Supra, notes 6, 12.
In its motion for reconsideration respondent stated:
"As taxes can be collected by distraint, it is clear that under the
law of 1928 the compensations, which were given the same legal
priority and effect of taxes, could be collected by distraint. But the
Act of 1935 does not give them such legal effect or priority, and only
states that the Treasurer shall collect them. That being the case, it
shall be taken that he can only collect them by an ordinary action."
17
In Diaz v. Gonzalez, 261 U. S. 102, 105-106, another Puerto Rico
case, Mr. Justice Holmes observed:
"This Court has stated many times the deference due to the understanding of the local courts upon matters of purely local concern.
It is enough to cite De Villanueva v. Vilanueva, 239 U. S. 293, 299.
Nadal v. May, 233 U. S. 447, 454. This is especially true in dealing
with the decisions of a Court inheriting and brought up in a dif1

BONET v. TEXAS CO.
463

Opinion of the Court.

recently stated, "Orderly development of the government
of Puerto Rico as an integral part of our governmental
system is well served by a careful and eonsistent adherence to the legislative and judicial policy of deferring to
the local procedure and tribunals of the Island." Bonet
v. Yabucoa Sugar Co., supra, p. 510.
We now repeat once more that admonition. And we
add that mere lip service to that rule is not enough. To
reverse a judgment of a Puerto Rican tribunal on such
a local matter as the interpretation of an act of the local
legislature, it would not be sufficient if we or the Circuit
Court of Appeals merely disagreed with that interpretation. Nor would it be enough that the Puerto Rican
tribunal chose what might seem, on appeal, to be the less
reasonable of two possible interpretations. And such
judgment of reversal would not be sustained here even
though we felt that of several possible interpretations
that of the Circuit Court of Appeals was the most reasonable one. For to justify reversal in such cases, the error
must be clear or manifest; the interpretation must be
inescapably wrong; the decision must be patently
erroneous.
Measured by such a test the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Puerto Rico should not have been reversed. In
concluding that under § .9 an uninsured employer could
have an award of the Commission reviewed, including the
issue of whether or not he was insured, the Supreme Court
of Puerto Rico did not take a patently absurd position.
ferent system from that which prevails here. When we contemplate
such a system from the outside it seems like a wall of stone, every
part even with all the others, except so far as our own local education
may lead us to see subordinations to which we are accustomed. But
to one brought up within it, varying emphasis, tacit assumptions,
unwritten practices, a thousand influences gained only from life, may
give to the different parts wholly new values that logic and grammar
never could have got from the books."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

The most that can be said is that the contrary position
is a tenable one. In holding that the amendments substituted collection by the petitioner for collection by the
Attorney General even in case of pending claims, that
tribunal did not commit manifest error. The conclusion
that the latter procedure survived the amendments is
merely another possible view. And the decision of that
tribunal that the petitioner had the power to distrain 8
cannot be said to be inescapably wrong in view of the
legislative design to leave no hiatus in the statutory
scheme as a result of cumulative amendments. The *contrary conclusion, though it might seem wholly reasonable,
would not warrant a reversal.
Intimations that respondent was not accorded due process of law and that the question of whether or not it
was insured was a jurisdictional fact open to collateral
attack are untenable. Acc9rding to the Supreme Court
of Puerto Rico, responden l had not only an opportunity
to be heard before the C mmission but also a right of
appeal. The fact that the period for review by appeal
Was very limited and-that on respondent's interpretation
of the law its right to appeal was uncertain are immaterial. Here, as on other aspects of this case, we cannot
say that the conclusion of the Supreme Court of Puerto
Rico that under this statute the remedy of respondent at
law was adequate is obviously erroneous.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Puerto Rico is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

did not participate in the consid-

eration or disposition of this case.
"The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico also held that § 243 of the
Code of Civil Procedure, barring execution of a judgment for the
payment of money after five years from the date of it entry, does
not apply to orders of the Commission covering compenSation awards,

a construction which does not seem to be manifest error.

