WEISS v. UNITED STATES.

321

Statement of the Case.

WEISS ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 42. Argued November 13, 14, 1939.-Decided December 11, 1939.
1. The provision of § 605 of the Communications Act oi 1934, that
"no person not being authorized by the sender shall intercept any
communication and divulge or publish the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning of such intercepted communication to any person," applies to intrastate as well as to interstate and foreign communications (over wires used for both kinds),
and bars admission in trials in the federal courts of evidence obtained by interception of such intrastate telephone communications. P. 329.
2. As Congress has power, when necessary for the protection of interstate commerce, to regulate intrastate transactions, there is no
constitutional requirement that the scope of the statute be limited
so as to exclude intrastate communications. P. 327.
3. The broad and inclusive language of the second clause of § 605,
quoted supra, is not to be limited by construction so as to exclude
intrastate cqmmunications from the protection against interception and divulgence. P. 329.
4. Held: Evidence of intercepted intrastate telephone communications which had been recorded by stenograph and phonograph was
inadmissible in a trial in the federal court; and it was prejudicial
error for the court to admit such evidence either by permitting the
parties to the telephone conversation, who had turned state's evidence, to read the stenographic transcript, or by allowing the
prosecutor to put the stenographic transcripts and phonograph
records in evidence upon identification by the parties to the conversation. The divulgence of the communications under the circumstances here was not "authorized by the sender" within the
meaning of § 605. Pp. 329, 331.
103 F. 2d 348, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 621, to review the affirmance of
*convictions and sentences of the petitioners upon indictments for using the mails to defraud and for conspiracy.

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for the United States.

308 U. S.

Mr. Theodore Kiendl for Dr. Maximilian Goldstein;
Mr. Lloyd Paul Stryker for Joseph J. Weiss; and Mr.
Jacob W. Friedman for Martin Gross,-petitioners.
Assistant Attorney GeneralRogge, with whom Solicitor
GeneralJackson and Messrs. Benjamin M. Parker,George
F. Kneip, Louis B. Schwartz, Fred E. Strine, and W.
Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United States.
The Communications Act shows on its face that it
was intended to apply only to interstate and foreign
communications.
Nor can it be assumed that Congress thought it necessary to forbid the divulging of intrastate communications
in order to protect the secrecy of interstate and foreign
communications, for there is no difficulty in dealing with
each type of communications separately. Although it
might be said that interception of interstate messages
could not easily be prohibited without also forbidding interception of intrastate messages passing over the same
lines, it is clear both from the language used and the legislative history that § 605 does not prohibit interception
per se but only interception and divulging.
Petitioners urge that even if § 605 does not or can not
forbid the interception and divulging of intrastate messages, nevertheless the policy against wire-tapping should
be given effect by construing the section as laying down a
rule of evidence. But there is no basis for such a view
either in the statute or in Nardone v. United States, 302
U. S. 379. That decision merely gives effect to an express statutory prohibition against certain disclosures.
It is evident from the opinion that this Court regarded
the statute as operating on the federal officers who were
testifying, not on the trial court in the admission of
evidence.
The Nardone decision should be limited to its facts
and not extended to intrastate communications. Ninety-

WEISS v. UNITED STATES.
321

Argument for the United States.

eight per cent. of all telephone communication is intrastate, and serious practical and constitutional difficulties
will arise if the Nardone decision is extended to this wide
new field. The immunity granted by the Act, as construed in that decision, is broader than the constitutional
guarantee of the Fourth Amendment, since not even reasonable "searches" are permissible. Also, under the general language of § 605, a defendant might have such evidence excluded even when obtained by private persons
unconnected with the Government (cf. Burdeau v. McDowell, 256 U. S.465) or where the evidence was secured
by intercepting some other person's messages (cf. Hale
v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Agnello v. United States, 269
U. S. 20, 35). If constitutional, the section thus construed would forbid evidence of intercepted intrastate
communications by state officers in state prosecutions, although a state constitution or statute may specifically
make such evidence admissible. Section 605 should be
construed to avoid doubts as to its constitutional validity.
The clause prohibits divulging only by persons "not
authorized by the sender." The witnesses who testified
to the telephone messages in the trial court were parties
to the conversation. It should be sufficient that one participant in a telephone conversation authorizes divulgence
of the message.
Interception of telephone communications by federal
law enforcement officers does not violate the Fourth or
Fifth Amendments. Olmstead v. United States, 277 U. S.
438, is controlling and should not be overruled.
There was no violation of New York state law in the
present case. People v. Hebberd, 96 Misc. 617, 620-621.
Even if the state law were violated, the evidence was
properly admitted under the common law rule that evidence, although procured illegally, is, nevertheless, admissible.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Since the telephone conversations were introduced
through the testimony of parties thereto, strictly speaking there exists in the present case no question of "wiretapping."
MR. JUSTIcE
Court.

ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

The petitioners were indicted, with five others, in the
District Court for the Southern District of New York
for using the mails to defraud and for conspiracy so to
use them.' The alleged scheme was to cheat insurance
companies by inducing them to pay false claims for disability, health, and accident benefits to three of the defendants, Nelson, Berger, and Spitz. These three pleaded
guilty and testified for the Government. Three defendants who were physicians,-Messman, Goldstein, and
4Krupp-were alleged to have assisted by furnishing policy
holders false medical certificates and instructing, them
how to simulate illness. Messman pleaded guilty and
testified for the Government. The other two stood trial.
Two lawyers, Joseph J. Weiss and Alfred L. Weiss, and
an investigator, Gross, were charged with having furthered the claims knowing them to be false. Alfred L.
Weiss was granted a severance; Joseph J. Weiss and Grosp
stood trial. Each of the petitioners was convicted and
sentenced. The judgments were affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals 2
The conspiracy and scheme charged covered a period
ex.tending from January 15, 1934, to July 30, 1937, the
date of the indictment. The principal issue of fact was
whether 'the petitioners participated in making false
claims with guilty knowledge. Over objection and ex'Under U. S. C. Tit. 18, §§ 338 and 88.
2 103

F, 2d 348.

WEISS v. UNITED STATES.
321

Opinion of the Court.

ception, the trial judge admitted evidence of seventy-six
intercepted telephone communications.
For months prior to the finding of the indictment telephone messages over the wires leading into the offices of
Weiss and Messman in New York City, were intercepted.
The wires were tapped by a policeman acting under instructions of'a United States Post Office Inspector.
The
intercepted messages were taken stenographically and
were also simultaneously recorded on phonograph discs
by employes of a detective agency acting under the same
instructions., Each night the records and* stenographic
transcripts' of communications intercepted during the day
were delivered to the United States Attorney or his representative. Interstate calls were made-from Weiss' office
and the tapped wires were the conduits of both interstate
and intrastate communications., Every call, whether
interstate or intrastate, to or from Weiss' office, was intercepted and recorded.
It appeared at the trial that one of the defendants who
pleaded guilty had, been confronted with the. phonographic records and had then decided to plead guilty and
become a witness for the Government. Others who had
been informed of the Government's possession of the
records did likewise. In the preparation for trial one of
the defendants, who was to testify for the prosecution,
held a typbd copy of the stenographic transcript of a
telephone conversation in which he had participated while
a phonographic record of the- conversation was played
to him. He coirected the typed manuscript to make it
conform to the words emitted from the phonograph. He
then marked the phonographic record and the script for
identification.
The Government's procedure at the trial in proving the
communications was to call as a witness one of the defendants who had pleaded guilty, and to hand him a transcript

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

he had marked for identification. After he had testified
that, on a given date, he held a telephone conversation
with one of the other defendants, he was asked whether
he could repeat the conversation verbatim. Upon his
stating that he could not do so without the use of the
typed transcript he was permitted to read it to the jury.
Subsequently the Government offered the identified
phonograph records and typewritten transcripts in evidence and they were admitted. Certain of the records
were played to the jury while each juryman held a copy
of the typewritten transcript of the- conversation. All
of the communications in question are conceded to have
been intrastate save one which, however, was not shown
to have been interstate.
The petitioners' objections to the admission of this evidence -were that it would violate § 605 of the Federal
Communications Act of 1934; ' would violate the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments of the Federal Constitution, and
would be in the teeth of § 1423, subdivision 6, of the Penal
Law of the State of New York,' making wire tapping a
crime.
Because of conflict of decision in the Circuit Courts of
Appeal' we granted certiorari, limited to the "question
whether the trial court properly received in evidence intercepted telephone communications." 6
.In Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379, it was decided that § 605 of the Federal Communications Act prohibited the reception in a federal court of evidence of
interstate communications obtained by federal agents by
tapping telephone wires. The petitioners assert, and the
e. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 1103; U. S. C. Tit. 47, § 605.
'Thompson's Laws of New York, 1939, Part I, p. 1909.
'Valli v. United States, 94 F. 2d 687; Diamond v. United States,
94 F. 2d 1012, and unreported opinion on petition for rehearing;
Sablowsky v. United States, 101 F. 2d 183.
6307 U. S. 621.

WEISS v. UNITED STATES.
321

Opinion of the Court.

respondent denies, that the section bars evidence of intrastate communications similarly obtained. The Government further claims that, even if the section would
otherwise bar the evidence, it does not have that effect
in this case, because interception and divulgence of the
messages put in evidence were "authorized by the sender"
within the meaning of the section.
The section consists of four clauses separated by semicolons. The pertinent one is the second: "and no person
not being authorized by the sender shall intercept any
communication and divulge or publish the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning of such intercepted communication to any person;".' Plainly the
interdiction thus pronounced is not limited to interstate
and foreign communications. And, as Congress has
power, when necessary for the protection of interstate
commerce, to regulate intrastate transactions, there is no
constitutional requirement that the scope of the statute
be limited so as to exclude intrastate communications.
The petitioners and the Government alike refer to the
context of the critical clause, and the legislative history
of the Communications Act, the former to demonstrate
that all communications are protected from interception
and divulgence, the latter to prove that the language of
the Act must be more narrowly interpreted to cover only
interstate and foreign communications.
In support of the petitioners' view it is pointed out that
each clause of § 605 is complete in itself; that in the first
and third clauses, which deal with divulgence of messages
by persons engaged in receiving or transmitting them, the
communications are specified as "any interstate or foreign
communication," whereas, in the second and fourth
'Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, 351, 352; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70, 75; National Labor Relations Board v. Jones &
Laughlin Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

clauses, which deal with interception and divulgence of
communications, the phrases used are "any communication" and "such intercepted communication." It is argued.
that the difference in phraseology must have significance;
and, in support of the assertion that the variety of expression was not due to inadvertence, the petitioners call attention to the fact that § 605 was taken over from § 27
of the Radio Act of 1927,1 which, referring to radio messages, used uniformly, in each clause, the term "communication" or "message" and nowhere qualified the
designation by the use of the phrase "in interstate or
foreign commerce."
The petitioners further urge that there is good reason
for the distinction in the phrasing of the clauses in § 605
since persons employed by communication companies can
distinguish between interstate and intrastate messages
which they handle, whereas, inasmuch as messages of both
sorts pass indiscriminately over the same wires, the intercepter cannot make a similar distinction and the only
practicable way to protect interstate messages from interception and divulgence is to prohibit the interception of
all messages.
The Government argues that a reading of the whole
section makes it plain that to give the second clause the
scope contended for by the petitioners will lead to incongruities and inconsistencies in the operation of the
section. We find none such as are sufficient to countervail what appears to be the plain meaning of the second
clause.
The Government correctly asserts that the main purpose of the Communications Act of 1934 was to extend
the jurisdiction of the existing Radio Commission to embrace telegraph and telephone communications as well
as those by radio. We are asked to hold that if Congress
BAct of Feb. 23, 1927, 44 Stat. 1162; -1172.

WEISS v. UNITED STATES.
321

Opinion of the Court.

had intended to make so drastic a change as to regulate
intrastate as well as interstate communication, both the
legislative history of the Act and its phraseology would
so indicate, whereas there is nothing in either to emphasize any such extension of authority. We thifik, however,
that the legislative history does not serve to explain the
difference in the wording of the various clauses of § 605.
In making the alterations in the phraseology of the similar
section of the earlier act the Congress must have had
some purpose. We cannot conclude that the change in
the wording of two of the four clauses of the section was
inadvertent.
The Government further contends that the Act, viewed
as a whole, indicates an intent to regulate only interstate
and foreign communication. The title and §§ 1 and 2,
with a single exception which serves to emphasize the distinction, expressly so declare. But we think these considerations are not controlling in the construction of
§ 605. The Commission's regulatory powers And administrative functions have to do only with interstate and
foreign communications. But § 605 delegates no function and confers no power upon the Commission. It
consists of prohibitions, sanctions for violation of which
are found in § 501." We hold that the broad and inclusive language of the second clause of the section is not
to be limited by construction so as to exclude intrastate
communications from the protection against interception
and divulgence.
We come, then, to the Government's second proposition,-that disclosure of the intercepted communications
was "authorized by the sender" within the meaning of the
clause. It is true that one or both of the parties to each
of the admitted communications attested in the manner
we have indicated to the intercepted conversations. This
'48 Stat. 1100, 47

U. S. C.§ 501.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

is said to amount to a consent to the divulgence of the
subject matter and to satisfy the statute in that respect.
We think the position is untenable. The Act contemplates voluntary consent and not enforced agreement to
publication. The participants were ignorant of the interception of the messages and did not consent thereto.
The contents of the stenographic transcripts and phonographic itecords were, prior to the trial, made available to
Government agents and United States attorneys. This
divulgence was not consented to by either of the parties
to any of the telephone conversations. In the absence of
such divulgence the Government would have been without the evidence embodied in the messages.
.It is said, however, that, when some of the defendants
pleaded guilty, elected to take the stand and to testify
to the contents of the messages, they gave the authorization contemplated by the statute. We have already adverted to the method by which this supposed authoriza"tion was obtained. Certain of the defendants who were
participants in the telephone conversations were informed
of the Government's possession of the contents of their
communications. Under the stress of this situation they
determined to turn state's evidence. Messman's license
to practice medicine has not been revoked; he was not
required to plead to the indictment; he was paid a salary
by the Government, first of $65.00 per week and later of
$100.00 per week, amounting, in the total, to $3,237.12.
Nelson's sentence was suspended. He was paid a salary
of $50.00 per week. Bergerl sentence was suspended.
Spitz's sentence was suspended.
Statement of these facts is convincing that the so-called
authorization consisting of the agreement to turn state's
evidence, by some of the defendants after they had been
apprized of the knowledge of their communications by
the Government's representatives, and in the hope of
leniency, was not that intended or described by the stat-

FORD MOTOR CO. v. BEAUCHAMP.
321

Syllabus.

ute and emphasis the offensive use which may be
made of intercepted messages, whether interstate or intrastate. It is not too much to assume the interdiction
of the statute was intended to prevent such a method
of procuring testimony..
We hold that § 605 rendered the communications inadmissible, and that it was prejudicial error for the trial
court to admit them either by permitting the defendants
who turned state's evidence to read the transcripts or
allowing the prosecutor to put the transcripts and phonographic records info evidence upon identification by the
parties to the conversations.
We have no occasion to consider or decide the questions
raised by the other objections of the petitioners to the
admission of the evidence.
The judgments are reversed and the cause is remanded
to the District CQurt for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
FORD MOTOR CO. v. BEAUCHAMP, SECRETARY
OF STATE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 17. Argued October 16, 17, 1939.-Decided December 11, 1939.
A state corporate franchise tax on the privilege of doing local business, measured by a charge upon such proportion of the outstanding capital stock, surplus, and undivided profits of the corporation, plus its long term obligations, as the. gross receipts from
its local business bear to the gross receipts of its entire business,
held constitutional. P. 334.
The gross receipts from the local business for the year in question were approximately $34,000,000; the total gross receipts about
$888,000,000; the ratio of local to total receipts, 3.85 per cent;
the total taxable capital $600,000,000; the value of local assets
about $3,000,000, while the value of the tapital allocated to the

