HIGGINS v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

HIGGINS, COLLECTOR 0F INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 146. Argued December 5, 1939.-Decided January 8, 1940.
1. Under § 23 (e) of the Revenue Act of 1932, authorizing in the
computation of income tax deductions for losses sustained during
the taxable year, no deductible loss occurs upon a sale by the taxpayer to a corporation wholly owned by him. P. 476.
2. The contention that this conclusion is inconsistent with prior
interpretations of the income tax laws and unfair to the taxpayerexamined and rejected. P. 478.
3. From the fact that § 24 (a) (6) of the Revenue Act of 1934
provides explicitly. that losses determined by sales to corporations
controlled by the taxpayer are not deductible, it does not follow
that the law fornerly was otherwise. P. 479.
4. Claims of error prejudicial to the taxpayer, arising out of the
District Court's rulings on evidence in this case, held without
merit. P. 480.
102 F. 2d 456, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 536, to review the reversal, on crossappeals, of a judgment in a suit brought by a taxpayer
for refund of a sum paid' as income taxes.

Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Messrs. Sewall Key, Arnold Raum,
and Joseph M. Jones were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. David Sher for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court. <

Certiorari was allowed' from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit 2 on account
of an asserted conflict between the decision below and that
' Post, p. 536.
102 F. 2d 456.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in
Commissioner v. Griffiths.3
The issue considered here is whether a taxpayer under
the circumstances of this case is entitled to deduct a loss
arising from the sale of securities to a corporation wholly
owned by the taxpayer. The statute involved is § 23 (e)
of the Revenue Act of 1932.'
The Innisfail Corporation was wholly owned by the
taxpayer, Mr. Smith. It was orgariized in 1926 under the
laws of New Jersey. The officers and directors of the
corporation were subordinates of the taxpayer. Its transactions were carried on under his direction and were
restricted largely to operations .in buying securities from
or selling them to the taxpayer. While its accounts were
kept completely separate from those of the taxpayer,
there is no doubt that Innisfail was his corporate self. As
dealings by a corporation offered opportunities for income
and estate tax savings, Innisfail was created to gain these
advantages for its stockholder. One of its first acts was
ti take over an option belonging to the taxpayer for the
acquisition by exchange of a block of Chrysler common
stock. Through mutual transactions in buying and selling securities, and receiving dividends, the balance of
accounts between Innisfail and the taxpayer resulted, on
December 29, 1932, in an indebtedness from him to Innis103 F. 2d 110, affirmed sub nor. Griffiths v. Commissioner, ante,
p. 355.
'47 Stat. 169, 179-80. "See. 23. Deductions from Gross Income.
"In computing net income there shal. ')e allowed as deductions:
"(e) Losses by Individuals.-Subject to the limitations provided in
subsection (r) of this section, in the case of an individual, losses sustained during the taxable year and not compensated for by insurance
or otherwise"(1) if incurred in trade or business; or
"(2) if incurred in any transaction entered into for profit, though
not connected with the trade or business; .

HIGGINS v. SMITH.
473

Opinion of the Court.

fail of nearly $70,000. On that date, as a partial payment
on this indebtedness, a number of shares of stock were
sold to the corporation by the taxpayer at market. The
securities sold had cost the taxpayer more than the price
charged to the corporation, and in, carrying out the transaction the taxpayer had in mind the tax consequences to
himself.
In computing his net taxable income for 1932, the taxpayer deducted as a loss the difference between the cost
of these securities and their sale price to his wholly owned
corporation. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue
ruled against the claim, whereupon respondent paid the
tax and brought this suit for refund in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York.
The case was tried before a jury and the verdict was
adverse to the taxpAyer's claim that uie purported sales
of these securities to Innisfail marked the realization of
loss on their purchase. On appeal the judgment was
reversed and the case remanded to the Distric . Court for
a new trial. It was the opinion of the Court of Appeals
that the facts as detailed above, as a matter of law, established the transfer of the securities to Innisfail as an
event determining loss.
Under § 23 (e) deductions are permitted for losses
"sustained during the taxable year." The loss is sustained when, realized by a completed transaction determining its amount.' In this case the jury was instructed
to find whether these sales by the taxpayer to Innisfail
were actual transfers of property "out of Mr. Smith and
into something that existed separate and apart from him"
or whether they were to be regarded as simply "a transfer
by Mr. Smith's left hand, being his'individual hand, into
his right hand, being his corporate hand, so that in truth
and fact there was no transfer at all." The jury agreed
the latter situation existed. There was sufficient evidence
'Burnet v. Hu#, 288 U. S. 156, 161.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

of the taxpayer's continued domination and control of
the securities, through stock ownership in the Innisfail
Corporation, to support this verdict, even though ownership in the securities had passed to the corporation in
which the taxpayer was the. sole stockholder. Indeed
this domination and control is so- obvious in a wholly
owned corporation as to require a peremptory instruction
that no loss in the statutory sense could occur upon a
sale by a taxpayer to such an entity.
It is clear -an actual corporation existed. Numerous
transactions were carried on by it over a period of years.
It paid taxes, state and national; franchise and income.
But the existence of an actual -corporation is only one
incident necessary to complete an actual sale to it under.
the revenue act. Title, we shall assume, passed to Innisfail but the taxpayer retained the control. Through the
corporate forms he might manipulate as he chose the exer-.
cise of shareholder's- rights in the various corporations,
issuers of the securities, and command the disposition of
the securities themselves. There is not enough of substance in such a sale finally to determine a loss.
The Government urges that the principle underlying
Gregory v. Helvering I finds expression in the rule calling
for a realistic approach to tax situations. As so broad and
unchallenged a principle furnishes only a general direction, it is of little value in the solution of tax problems.
If, on the other hand, the Gregory case is viewed as a
precedent for the disregard of a transfer of assets without
a business purpose but solely to reduce tax liability, it
gives support to the natural conclusion that transactions,
which do not vary control or change the flow of economic
benefits, are to be dismissed from consideration. There
is no illusion about the payment of a tax exaction: Each
tax, according' to a legislative plan, raises funds to carry
293 U. S. 465.

HIGGINS v. SMITH.
473

Opinion of the Court.

on government. The purpose here is to tax earnings and
profits less expenses and losses. If one or the other factor
in any calculation is unreal, it distorts the liability of the
particular taxpayer to the detriment or advantage of the
entire tax-paying group.
The taxpayer cites Burnet v. Commonwealth Improvement Company 8 as a precedent for treating the taxpayer
and his solely owned corporation as separate entities. In
that case the corporation sold stock to the sole stockholder, the Estate of P. A. B. Widener. The transaction
showed a book profit and the corporation sought a ruling
that a sale to its sole stockholder could not result in a
taxable profit. This Court concluded otherwise and held
the identity of corporation and taxpayer distinct for purposes of taxation.' In the Commonwealth Improvement
Company case, the taxpayer, for reasons satisfactory to
itself voluntarily had chosen to employ the corporation
in its operations. A taxpayer is free to adopt such organization for his affairs as he may choose and having
elected to do some business as a corporation, he must
accept the tax disadvantages. °
On the other hand, the Government may not be
required to acquiesce in the taxpayer's election of that
form for doing business which is most advantageous to
him. The Government may look at actualities and upon
determination that the form employed for doing business
or carrying out the challenged tax event is unreal or a
sham may sustain or disregard the effect of the fiction as
best serves the purposes of the tax statute. To hold
otherwise would permit the schemes of taxpayers to super-,
sede legislation in the determination of the time and
Cf. Stone v. White, 301 U. S. 532, 537.
8287 U. S. 415.
9
See also Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U. S. 19; Dalton v.
Bowers, 287 U. S. 404; Burnet v. Clark, 287 U. S. 410.
' Cf. Edwards v. Chile Copper Co., 270 U. S. 452, 456.

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

manner of taxation. It is command of income and its
benefits which marks the real owner of property.'1
Such a conclusion, urges the respondent, is inconsistent
with the prior interpretations of the income tax laws and
consequently unfair to him. He points to the decisions
of four courts of appeals which have held losses determined by sales to controlled corporations allowable 12 and
further calls attention to the fact that the Board of Tax
Appeals has consistently reached the same conclusion."3
But this judicial and administrative construction has no
significance for the respondent. The Bureau of Internal
Revenue has insistently urged since February 18, 1930,
the date of the Board of Tax Appeals' decision in Jones
v. Helvering, 4 that a transfer from a taxpayer to a controlled corporation was ineffective to close a transaction
for the determination of loss. Every case cited by
respondent in the courts of appeals and before the Board
of Tax Appeals found the Government supporting that
contention. The Board's ruling in the Jones case was
' Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111; Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U. S. 376;
Griffiths v. Commissioner, ante, p. 355.
"Jones v. Helvering, 63 App. D. C. 204; 71 F. 2d 214 (April 23,
1934, reversing 18 B. T. A. 1225, decided February 18, 1930), cert.
denied October 8, 1934, 293 U. S. 583; Commissioner v. Eldridge, 79
F. 2d 629 -(November 4; 1935, affirming 30 B. T. A. 1322, decided
July 31, 1934); Commissioner v. McCreery, 83 F. 2d 817 (May 13,
1936, affirming B. T. A. memorandum opinion of June 19, 1935);
Foster v. Commissioner, 96 F. 2d 130 (April 18, 1938, affirming
B. T. A. memorandum opinion of December 23, 1935); Helvering v. Johnson, 104 F. 2d 140 (June 1, 1939, affirming 37 B. T. A.
155, decided January 21, 1938), affirmed by an equally divided Court,
post, p. 523.
David Stewart v. Commissioner, 17 B. T. A. 604; Corrado & Galiardi, Inc. v. Commissioner, 22 B. T. A. 847; Edward Securities Corporation v. Commissioner, 30 B. T. A. 918; Ralph Hochstetter v.
Commissioner, 34 B. T. A. 791; John Thomas Smith v. Commissioner, supra, 40 B. T. A. 387.
1 18 B. T. A, 1225, a rehearing'affirmed May 26, 1932, unpublished.

HIGGINS v. SMITH.
473

Opinion of the Court.

standing unreversed at the time of the transaction here
involved, December 29, 1932. It was only after the transactions here involved and after the reversal of the Board
in the Jones case on April 23, 1934, or this Court's refusal
of certiorari on October 8, 1934, that the Board of Tax
Appeals and the courts of appeals, over Government protests, ruled in line with the opinion of the. Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia in the Jones case. If
the Bureau's stand in the Jones case represented a change
in administrative practice, there can be no doubt that the
change operated validly at least from 1930 on.15 After
the Jones defeat the Government sought relief in Congress and after the judgment in Commissioner v. Griffiths,
supra, certiorari here on a conflict in principle between
circuits. Certainly there was no acquiescence by the Government which woula justify the taxpayer in relying upon
prior interpretations of the law."' .
Respondent makes the further point that the passage
of § 24(a) (6) of the Revenue Act of 1934 " which explicitly forbids any deduction for losses determined by
sales to corporations controlled by the taxpayer is convincing proof that the law was formerly otherwise. This
"Helvering v. Wilshire Oil Co., ante, p. 90.
Cf. Estate of Sanford v. Commissioner, ante, p. 39.
:'48 Stat. 680, 691. "See. 24. Items not Deductible.
"(a) General Rule.-In computing net income no deduction shall in
any case be allowed in respect of"(6) Loss from sales or exchanges of property, directly or indirectly, (A) between members of a family, or (B) except in the case
of distributions in liquidation, between an individual and a corpora-

tion in which such individual owns, directly or indirectly, more than
50 per centum in value of the outstanding stock. For the purpose of
this paragraph-(C) an individual shall be considered as owning the
stock owned, directly or indirectly, by his family; and (D) the family
of an individual shall include only his brothers and sisters (whether
by the whole or half blood), spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
R OBERTS,

J., dissenting.

308 U. S.

does not follow. At most it is evidence that a later Congress construed the 1932 Act to recognize separable taxable identities between the taxpayer and his wholly owned
corporation. As the new provision goes much farther than
the former decisions in disregarding transfers between
members of the family it may well have been passed to
extend as well as clarify the existing rule. The suggestion is not sufficiently persuasive to give vitality to a futile
transfer.
The taxpayer has preserved two objections to the district judge's rulings on the evidence. He claims that
evidence as to transactions between the taxpayer and the
corporation which took place prior to the sale here
involved was remote and highly prejudicial. We thir'
it apparent that this evidence was entirely relevant to
the present issue; the history of the taxpayer's relations
with the corporation shed considerable light on the actual
effect of the sale in question. The second contention is
that the district judge charged the jury to give less effect
to the book entries of Smith and the corporation than
they were entitled to under the applicable book entry
statute. 18 The alleged departure from the statute has
but dubious support in the record, resting on a single
statement of the judge lifted from its context as part of
an extended colloquy with counsel. In the circumstances
there is no merit in the claim of prejudice to the
taxpayer.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, dissenting.
I think the judgment should be affirmed. To reverse
it is to disregard a rule respecting the separate entity c."
corporations having basis in logic and practicality and
- 49 ,tat. 1561, 28 U. S. C. § 695.

HIGGINS v. SMITH.
473

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

which has log been observed in the administration of the
revenue acts.
Since the inception of the system of federal income
taxation, capital gains have been taxed and certain capital
losses have been allowed as credits against such gains.
In order that this system might be practical it has been
necessary to select some event as the criterion of realization of gain or loss. The revenue laws have selected the
time of the closing of a capital transaction as the occasion
for reckoning gain or loss on a capital asset. A typical:
method of closure is a sale of the asset.
As the sale is voluntarily made by the taxpayer, his
determination when he shall sell affects hiscapital gain
or loss. He, therefore, in a sense, controls the question
whether, in a given taxable year, he must pay tax on a
realized gain or may claim credit for a realized loss. Of
course such a sale must be bona fide and title must pass
absolutely. In the present instance the sale and transfer
were such, and, as the Circuit Court of Appeals held, fhere
was not a scintilla of evidence to the contrary for the
jury's consideration. A taxpayer who pretends he has
made a sale when in fact he has a secret agreement which
leaves him still,.for all practical purposes, the owner of
the thing sold, is but -.committing a fraud upon the
revenue.
If the sale is bona fide, if title in fact passes irrevocably
to another, that other takes as his basis, in reckoning his
gain and loss, the price he paid for the asset; and upon
his future disposition of it there will be a new reckoning
of gain or loss with respect to such disposition. Here, if
Innisfail either sold to the respondent or to a third party
it would have to reckon gain or loss on the sale. If it
distributed the asset in liquidation the respondent would
be subject to a tax liability on the receipt of his dividend.
The sole question, then, is whether, as matter of law, a
bona fide and absolute sale to a wholly owned corporation

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBMTS,,

.,

dissenting.

308 U. S.

can constitute a completed transaction, determining a
loss.
The problem as to how a sale to a corporation wholly
owned or wholly controlled by an individual taxpayer is
to be treated is not a new one. The existence of such
corporations and the dealings between them and their
stockholder or stockholders have long been understood.
Congress was not ignoradti of the problem.' At the outset Congress might well have adopted the policy that a
sale by the stockholder tW the corp6ration, or vice versa,
should be disregardea, and the stocklholder treated as in
effect the owner of the capital asset imtil its sale to a
stranger. On the other band, it would be a practical
policy to recognize the separate entity of the corporation,
to treat a transfer at current value for adequate consideration occurring between it and its sole stockholder as
closing a transaction for the purpose of reckoning either
,gain or loss, and then to tax the vendee upon his or its
gain or loss upon a subsequent transfer by comparison,
of the basis on which the asset was acquired and the
amount realized on final disposition by the vendee. In
fact, the latter course was adopted and was consistently
,followed until 1934 when Congress dealt with the
subject.
This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Holmes, said, in
Klein v. Board of Supervisors, 282 U. S. 19, 24: " ...
But it leads nowhere to call a corporation a fiction. If
it is a fiction it is a fiction created by law with intent
that it should be acted on as if true. The corporation is
'The Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, 196, § 112 (b) (5),
provided: "No gain or loss shall be recognized if property is transferred to a corporation by one or more persons solely in exchange
for stock or securities in such corporation, and immediately after the
exchange such person or persons are in control of the corporation; .. '

HIGGINS v. SMITH.
473

ROBERTS,

483

J., dissenting.

a person and its ownership is a nonconductor that makes
it impossible to attribute an interest in its property to
its members."
In this view assets received on the liquidation of a
one-man corporation constitute taxable income to the
sole stockholder.' Likewise, losses sustained by a corporation wholly owned by one individual may not be
reported and claimed in the individual tax return of the
latter.! And the sole stockholder and his controlled corporation may not tack successive periods of ownership to
make up the two years required for an asset to become,
within the meaning of the statute, a capital-asset."
This court has found that a taxable gain was realized
in a case where a wholly owned corporation sold securities
to its sole stockholder.' Every element appearing in that
case is paralleled here, as a comparison of the facts stated
in the opinions in the two cases will demonstrate. This
court said, in the earlier case, referring to the corporation:
"The fact that it had only one stockholder seems of no
legal significance," and held the corporation a separate
taxable entity. It is now said, however, that there is no
inequity in not applying the same rule to losses as to
gains because the taxpayer who exercises the option to
conduct a portion of his business through the instrumentality of a wholly owned corporation does so in the full
knowledge that, if he does, gains shown on sales by him to
the corporation will be taxed whereas losses oh such sales
will not be allowed as deductions. As hereafter will be'
shown, this is now true in virtue of the amendment
France Co. v.Commissioner, 88 F. 2d 917; Coxe v. Handy, 24 F.
Supp.*178; John K. Greenwood, 1 B. T. A. 291.
'Dalton v. Bowers, 287 U. S. 404; Menihan v. Commissioner, 79 F.
2d 304.
'Webber v. Knox, 97 F. 2d 921.
Burnet v. Commonwealth Improvement Co., 287 U. S. 415.

.484

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
.

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

308 U. S.

embodied in the Revenue Act of 1934 but it was not true
as the law stood before the adoption of that amendment.
In 1921 the Treasury was first called upon to deal with
a loss deduction arising out of a sale to a wholly owned
corporation. In that year it published Law Opinion
1062.6. It was held that if the sale was bona fide and
passed title absolutely to the controlled corporation, even
though the sale was made with the intent of reducing
the tax liability of the vendor it fell within the provisionsof the revenue act concerning the reckoning of gain or
loss upon a closed transaction. So far as I am informed,
the Treasury followed-this rule in administering the various revenue acts for years after it was issued. The first
evidence of a change in its position was the refusal of the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue to recognize losses
resulting to taxpayers from a bona fide sale of bonds
owned by them to a wholly owned corporation at. the
current market price.' The. Board of Tax Appeals sustained the Commissioner, but the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia reversed the Board in Jones v.
Helvering, 71 F. 2d 214. The decision was rendered April
23, 1934. The Commissioner sought certiorari which
was denied October 8, 1934.8 The same result has been
reached by three other Circuit Courts of Appeal.'. The
Board of Tax Appeals followed these decisions." In the
64 C. B. 168, cited with approval in G. C. M; 3008 VII-1 C. B. 235.
'Jones v. Commissioner, 18 B. T. A. 1225 (1930).
293 U. S. 583.
. Commisioner v. Eldridge, 79 F. 2d 629 (C. C. A. 9); Commis8ioner v. McCreery, 83 F. 2d 817 (C. C. A. 9); Helvering v. Johnson,
104 F. 2d 140 (C. C. A. 8); Fostei v. Cormmissioner, 96 F. 2d 130
(C. C.. A. 2); Smith v. Higgins (the instant case), 102 F. 2d 456

(C. C. A. 2).
David Stewart, 17 B. T. A. 604; Corrado & Galiardi, Inc., 22
B. T.. A. 847; Ralph Hochstetter, 34 B. T. A. 791; John Thomas
Smith, 40 B. T. A. 387, involving prior years of the taxpayer in this

ease.

HIGGINS v. SMITH.
473

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

meantime the Circuit Courts of Appeal nad decided
numerous cases which are, in principle, indistinguishable."
This court having denied certiorari in Jones v. Helvering, supra, decided Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465,
in the following January. It cited the Jones case with
approval, at p. 469, saying: "...
The legal right of
a taxpayer to decrease the amount of what otherwise
would be his taxes, or altogether avoid them, by means
which the law permits, cannot be doubted."
So well settled had the judicial interpretation become
that the Treasury determined to recommend that Congress amend the statute.' The result was the adoption
of § 24 (a) (6) of the Revenue Act of 1934." The committee reports disclose that Congress thought it necessary
to change the statute in order to render nondeductible a
loss claimed on a sale to a wholly owned or a controlled
corporation. 1 ' Subsequent hearings before the Joint
Commission on Tax Evasion and Avoidance, 1937, p. 207,
indicate the same understanding on the part of the
Bureau of Internal Revenue and of Congress that the rule
1

Iowa Bridge Co. v. Commissioner, 39 F. 2d 777; Taplin v. Commissioner, 41 F. 2d 454; Commissioner v. Van Vorst, 59 F. 2d 677;
Marston v. Commissioner, 75 F.- 2d 936; St. Louis Union Trust Co. v.
United States, 82 F: 2d 61; Sawtell v. Commissioner, 82 F. 2d 221;
Commissioner v. Edward Securities Co., 83 F. 2d 1007, affirming 30
B. T. A. 918.
"In the Hearings before the Joint Committee on Tax Evasion and
Avoidance, 1937, p. 206, it appears that the Solicitor General cot
sidered the law so well settled that he refused to apply for certiorari
in the Eldridge case, supra, note 9, although the Treasury recommended such action.
"48 Stat. 680, 691.
See the report of the Committee on Ways and Means of the
House of Representatives, E.. R. 704, 73d Cong., Second Sess., p. 23;
Senate Report 588, 73d Cong., Second Sess., p. 27; see also the hearings before the Committee on Ways and Means, Revenue Revision,
1934, p. 131.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
RoBmRs, J., dissenting.

308 U. S.

of law in effect prior to the adoption of the amendment
in 1934 was changed by that legislation. The amendment
lists among items not deductible the following:
"(6) Loss from sales or exchanges of property, directly
or indirectly, (A) between members of a family, or (B) except in the case of distributions in liquidation, between an
individual and a corporation in which such individual
owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50 per centum in
value of the outstanding stock. For the purpose of this
paragraph-(C) an individual shall be considered as owning the stock owned, directly or indirectly, by his family;
and (D) the family of an individual shall include only his
brothers and sisters (whether by the whole or half blood),
spouse, ancestors, and lineal descendants."
Plainly, prior to 1934, taxpayers were justified in relying, first, upon the Treasury ruling on the subject and,
secondly, upon the uniform decisions of the courts in
claiming deductions for losses on sales to controlled corporations. After the passage of the amendment they were
on notice that this was no longer permissible.
I turn then to the situation here presented. The claims
of this taxpayer, as I have said, had been sustained for
prior years by the Board of Tax Appeals."5 The Congress
had enacted that subsequent to 1934 the taxpayer could
not claim such losses. Notwithstanding the earlier decisions of the respondent's case and those of other taxpayers against the Government's present contention, the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, after the adoption of
the Act of 1934, namely on March 11, 1935, served a notice of deficiency upon the respondent respecting losses
claimed in his return for the year 1932 on sales to Innisfail. Thus the Treasury repudiated the position it had
taken in asking that the law be amended to cover cases
of this kind; reversed its position in acquiescing in the
"Supra, note 10.

HIGGINS v. SMITH.
473

ROBEMrs, J., dissenting.

adjudication of the respondent's tax liability for earlier
years and sought, now that it had obtained an amendment
of the law operating prospectively, to reach back into
sundry unclosed ones,-this one amongst others,-and to
attempt to obtain decisions reversing the settled course
*of decision. I think this court should not lend its aid to
the effort.
I am of opinion that where taxpayers have relied upon
a long unvarying series of decisions construing and applying a statute, the only appropriate method to change. the
rights of the taxpayers is to go to Congress for legislation.
In my view, the resort to Congress, on the one hand, for
amendment, and the appeal to the courts, on the other, for
a reversal of construction, which, if successful, will operate
unjustly and retroactively upon those who have acted in
reliance upon oft-reiterated judicial decisions, are wholly
inconsistent.
I am of opinion that the courts should not disappoint
the well-founded expectation of citizens that, until Con,ress speaks to the contrary, they may, with confidence,
rely upon the uniform judicial interpretation of a statute.
The action taken in this case seems to me to fnake it
impossible for a citizen safely to conduct his affairs in
reliance upon any settled body of court decisions.
JUSTICE McREYNoIDS joins in this opinion.
'MR.

