A. F. OF L. v.. LABOR BOARD.
Opinion of the Court.

AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR

ET AL. V.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 70.

Argued December 7, 8, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. A certification by the National Labor Relations Board, under § 9 (c)
of the National Labor Relations Act, that a particular organization
of workers is the collective bargaining representative of the employees in a designated unit, is not an order reviewable by the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia or a Circuit Court
of Appeals under § 10 (f) of the Act. P. 403.
2. The Act does not provide for court review of such certifications
except as incidental to review of an order restraining an unfair
labor practice, under § 10. Pp. 404, 407.
The question whether an independent suit may ba maintained
in the District Court to set aside such a certification upon the
ground that it is contrary to the statute and inflicts irreparable
injury is not involved in this case. P. 412.
3. The due process clause is not infringed by withholding from federal
courts jurisdiction which they never possessed. P. 411.
70 App. D. C. 62; 103 F. 2d 933, affirmed.

post, p. 531, to review a judgment dismissing for want of jurisdiction a petition to review the
certification by the National Labor Relations Board of an
organization of longshoremen as representative of workers.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Joseph A. Padway for petitioners.
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson and Messrs. Robert B. Watts and Laurence A. Knapp
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question decisive of this case is whether a certification by the National Labor Relations Board under

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

§ 9 (c) of the Wagner Act, 49 Stat. 449, 453, 29 U, S. C.,
Supp. IV, §§ 151-166, that a particular labor organization of longshore workers is the collective bargaining
representative of the employees in a designated unit,
composed of numerous employers of longshore workers at
Pacific Coast ports, is reviewable by the Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia by the procedure set up in
§ 10 (f) of the Act.
Petitioners, International Longshoremen's Association,
and its affiliate, Pacific Coast District International Longshoremen's Association No. 38, are labor organizations,
both affiliated with the petitioner, American Federation
of Labor (A. F. of L.). In January, 1938, the International Longshoremen's & Warehousemen's Union, District
No. 1, a labor organization affiliated with the Congress
of Industrial Organization (C. I. 0.) petitioned the Board
for an investigation concerning the representation of
longshoremen on the Pacific Coast, and that the Board
certify the name of the appropriate representative for
collective bargaining as provided in § 9 (c) of the Wagner
Act.
The Board directed an investigation with appropriate
hearings, and a consolidation of the proceeding for purposes of hearing with two other proceedings already
initiated by locals of the Longshoremen's Union. Petitioners were made parties to the consolidated proceedings
and participated in the hearings, at the conclusion of
which the Board made its findings of fact and of law and
certified that the workers who do longshore work ii, the
Pacific Coast ports for the employers which are members
of five designated employer associations of Pacific Coast
shipowners or of waterfront employers, constitute a unit
appropriate for the purposes of collective bargaining
within the meaning of § 9 (b) of the Act. It also certified that the C. I. 0. affiliate, Longshoremen's Union,

A. F. OF 'L. v LABOR BOARD.
401

Opiniob of the Court.

District No. 1, is the exclusive bargaining representative
of all the workers in such unit within the meaning of the
Act. In the Matter of Shipowners' Association of the
Pacific Coast, 7 N. L. R B. 1002.
The effect of the certification, as petitioner alleges, is
the inclusion in a single unit, for bargaining purposes, of
all of the longshore employees of the members of the employer associations doing business at the west coast ports
of the United States, and to designate the C. I. 0. affiliate
as their bargaining repiesentative so that in the case of
some particular employers, their workers who are not
organized or represented by the C. I. 0. affiliate have been
deprived of opportunity to secure bargaining representatives of their own choice. Although the petitioners who
are affiliated with the A. F. of L. assert that they have in
fact been selected as bargaining representatives by a majority of the employees of their respective employers,.
petitioners allege that they have nevertheless been prevented from acting in that capacity by the Board's designation of the C. I. 0. affiliate as the exclusive representative of such employees.
The present suit was begun by petition to the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia in which the petitioners set forth, in addition to the facts already detailed,
that they were aggrieved by the "decision and order of
certification of the Board" in that the certificate is contrary to fact and to law; that the Wagner Act does not
contemplate or authorize "the designation by the Board
of an employee unit constituting all the employees of
different employers in different and distant geographical
districts of the United States." The petition prayed that
the "order of certification" be set aside, in so far as it attempts to designate a single exclusive bargaining representative for longshore employees of many employers on
the Pacific Coast and denies to a majbrity of the longshore

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

employees of a single employer the right to select
one of the petitioners as their exclusive bargaining
representative.
The Court of Appeals dismissed the petition as not
within the jurisdiction to review orders of the Board
conferred upon it by § 10 of the Wagner Act. 103 F. 2d
933. We granted certiorari October 9, 1939, because of
the importance of the question presented and to resolve
an alleged conflict of the decision below with that of the
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers v. National Labor Relations Board, 105 F. 2d 598.
The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
like the several circuit courts of appeals, is without the
jurisdiction over original suits conferred on district courts
by § 24 of the Judicial Code, as amended. 28 U. S. C.,
§ 41. Such jurisdiction as it has, to review directly the
action of administrative agencies, is specially conferred
by legislation relating specifically to the determinations
of such agencies made subject to review, and prescribing
the manner and extent of the review. Here, the provisions of the Wagner Act, § 10 (f), which gives a right of
review to "any person aggrieved by a final order of the
Board," determines the nature and scope of the review
by the court of appeals.
The single issue which we are now called on to decide
is whether the certification by the Board is an "order"
which, by related provisions of the statute, is made
reviewable upon petition to the Court of Appeals for the
District or in an appropriate case, to a circuit court of
appeals. The question is distinct from another much
argued at the Bar, whether petitioners are precluded by
the provisions of the Wagner Act from maintaining an
independent suit in a district court to set aside the
Board's action because contrary to the statute, and be-

A. F. OF L. v. LABOR BOARD.
401

Opinion of the Court.

cause it inflicts on petitioners an actionable injury otherwise irreparable.
By the provisions of the Wagner Act the Board is
given two principal functions to perform. One, defined
by § 9, which as enacted is headed "Representatives and
Elections," is the certification, after appropriate investigation and hearing, of the name or names of representatives, for collective bargaining, of an appropriate unit
of employees. Th' other, defined by § 10, which as
enacted is headed "Prevention of Unfair Labor Practices,"
is the prevention by the Board's order after hearing and
by a further appropriate proceeding in court, of the unfair labor practices enumerated in § 8. One of the outlawed practices is the refusal of an employer to bargain
with the representative of his employees. § 8 (5).
Certification involves, under § 9 (b), decision by the
Board whether "the unit appropriate for the purposes of
collective bargaining shall be the employer unit, craft
unit, plant unit, or subdivision thereof,"', and the ascertainment by the Board under § 9 (c) of the bargaining
representative who, under § 9 (a) must be "designated
or selected'
. by the majority of the employees in the
appr.opriate
for such [bargaining] purposes." The
unit
Board is 'uthorized by § 9 (c) "whenever a question
affecting commerce arises concerning the representation
of employees" to investigate "such controversy" and to
certify the names of the appropriate bargaining representatives. In conducting the investigation it is required to provide for appropriate hearing upon due
notice "and may take a secret ballot of employees, or
utilize any other suitable method" of ascertaining such
representatives. By § 9 (d) whenever an order of the
Board is made pursuant to § 10 (c) directing any person
to cease an unfair labor practice and there is a petition
for. eforcement or review of the order by a court the

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Board's "certification and the record of such investigation" is to be included in the transcript of the entire
record required to be filed under § 10 (e) or (f), and the
decree of the court enforcing, modifying or setting aside
the order of the Board is to be made and entered upon the
pleadings, testimony and proceedings set forth in the
transcript.
It is to be noted that § 9, which is complete in itself,
makes no provision, in terms, for review of a certification
by the Board and authorizes no use of the certification or
of the record in a certification proceeding, except in the
single case where there is a petition for enforcement or
review of an order restraining an unfair labor practice
as authorized by § 10 (c). In that event the record in the
certification proceeding is included in the record brought
up on review of the Board's order restraining an unfair
labor practice. It then becomes a part of the record upon
which the decree of the reviewing court is to be based.
All other proyisions for review of any action of the
Board are found in § 10 which as its heading indicates
relates to the prevention of unfair labor practices. Nowhere in this section is there mention of investigations
or certifications authorized and defined by § 9. Section
10 (a) authorizes the Board "to prevent any person from
engaging in any unfair labor practice (listed in section 8)
affecting commerce." Section 10 (b) prescribes the procedure of the Board when any person is charged with
engaging in, any unfair labor practice, and requires that
the person so charged shall be served with a complaint
and notice of hearing by the Board with opportunity to
file an answer and be heard. Section 10 (c) directs the
Board, if it is of opinion, as the result of the proceedings
before it, that any person named in the complaint has engaged in an unfair labor practice "to issue" "an order"
'directing that person to cease the practice and command-

A. F. OF L. v. LABOR BOARD.
401

Opinion of the Court.

ing appropriate affirmative action. If the Board is of
opinion that there has been no unfair labor practice it
is directed "to issue" "an order" dismissing the complaint.
Section 10 (e) authorizes a pptition to the appropriate
federal court of appeals by the Board for the enforcement
of its order prohibiting an unfair labor practice.
This brings us to the provisions for review of action
taken by the Board in. § 10 (f) which is controlling in the
present proceeding. That subdivision 1 appears as an
integral part of § 10. All the other subdivisions relate
exclusively to proceedings for the prevention of unfair
labor practices. Both they and subdivision (f) are silent
as to the proceedings or certifications authorized by § 9.
Section 10 (f), providing for review, speaks only of a
"final order of the Board." It gives a right to review to
persons aggrieved by a final order upon petition to a court
of appeals in the circuit "wherein the unfair labor prac'"(f) Any person aggrieved by a final order of the Board granting
or denying in whole or in part the relief sought may obtain a review
of such order in any circuit court of appeals of the United States in
the circuit wherein the unfair labor practice in question was alleged
to have been engaged in or wherein such person resides or transacts
business, or in the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, by
filing in such court a written petition praying that the order of the
Board be modified or set aside. A copy of such petition.shall be
forthwith served'upon the Board, and thereupon the aggrieved party
shall file in the couri a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding, certified by the Board, including the pleading and'testimony upon
which the order complained of was entered and the findings and order
of the Board. Upon such fl ig, the court shall proceed in the same
manner as in the case of an application by the Board under subsection
(e), and shall have the same exclusive jurisdiction to grant to the Board
such temporary relief or restraining order as it deems just and proper,
and in like manner to make and enter a decree enforcing, modifying,
and enforcing as. so modified, or setting aside in whole or in part the
order of the Board; and the findings- of the Board as to the facts, if
supported by evidence, shall in like manner be\ conclusive."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

tice in question was alleged to have been engaged in or
wherein such person resides or transacts business, or in
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia." It
directs that the order shall be reviewed on the entire
record before the Board "including the pleadings and
testimony" upon which the order complained of was
entered, although no complaint or other pleading is mentioned by § 9 relating to representation proceedings and
certificates. Subdivision (f)provides that upon petition
for review by an aggrieved person "the court shall proceed in the same manner as in the case of an application
by the Board under subdivision (e)," and it is given the
same jurisdiction "to grant to the Board such temporary
relief or restraining order as it deems just and proper, and
in like manner to make and enter a decree enforcing,
modifying, and enforcing as so modified, or setting aside
in whole or in part the order of the Board." See, Ford
Motor Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 305 U. S.
364, 369.
In analyzing the provisions of the statute in order to
ascertain its true meaning, we attribute little importance
to the fact that the certification does not itself command
action. Administrative determinations which are not
commands may for all practical purposes determine rights
as effectively as the judgment of a court, and may be
reexamined by courts under particular statutes providing for the review of "orders." See Rochester Telephone
Corp: v. United States, 307 U. S. 125, 130, 135, et seq.;
Federal Power Comm'n v. Pacific Power 4 Light Co.,
307 U. S. 156. We must look rather to the language of
the statute, read in the light of its purpose and its legislative history, to ascertain whether the "order" for which
the review in court is provided, is contrasted with forms
of administrative action differently described as a purposeful means of excluding them from the review
provisions.

A. F. OF L. v. LABOR BOARD.
401

Opinion of the Court.

Here it is evident that the entire structure of the Act
emphasizes, for purposes of review, the distinction
between an "order" of the Board restraining an unfair
labor practice and a certification in representation proceedings.. The one authorized by § 10 may be reviewed
by the court on petition of the Board for enforcement of
the order, or of a person aggrieved, in conformity to the
procedure laid down in § 10, which says nothing of certifications. The other, authorized by § 9, is nowhere
spoken of as an order, and no procedure is prescribed for
its review apart from an order prohibiting an unfair labor
practice. The exclusion of representation proceedings
from the review secured by the provisionsof § 10 (f) is
emphasized by the clauses of § 9 (d), which provide for
certification by the Board of a record of a representation
proceeding only in the case when there is a petition for
review of an order of the Board restraining an unfair
labor practice. The statute on -its face thus indicates a
purpose to limit the review afforded by § 10 to orders of
the Board prohibiting unfair labor practices, a.purpose
and a construction which its -legislative history confirms.
Upon the introduction of the bill which was enacted as
the Wagner Act, Congress had pointedly brought to its
attention the experience under Public Resolution 44 of
June 19,1934,48 Stat. 1183. That resolution authorized the
National Labor Relations Board, predecessor of respondent, "to order and conduct elections" by employees of any
employer to determine who were their representatives for
bargaining purposes. Section 2 provided that any order
of the Board should be reviewed in the same manner as
orders of the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act. The reports of the Congressional committees upon the bill which became the
Wagner Act refer to the long delays in. the procedure
prescribed by Resolution 44, resulting from applications
to the federal appellate courts for review of orders for elec-

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

tions. And in considering the provisions of § 9 (d) the
committee reports were emphatic in their declaration that
the provisions of the bill for court review did not extend
to proceedings under § 9 except as incidental to review of
an order restraining an unfair labor practice under § 10.'
"WEAKNESSES IN EXISTING LAW....

(6) Obstacles to elections.-

Under Public Resolution 44, any attempt by the Government to conduct an election of representatives may be contested ab initio in the
courts, although such election is in reality merely a preliminary deter-

mination of fact. This means that the Government can be delayed
indefinitely before it takes the first step toward industrial peace.
After almost a year not a single case, in which a company has chosen
to contest an election order of the Board, has reached decision in any
circuit court of appeals."

Sen. Rep. No. 573, Committee on Educa-

tion and Labor, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 5, 6.
After referring to the procedure for review under Public Resolution
44, the House Committee declared: "The weakness of this procedure
is that under the provision for review of election orders employers
have a means of holding up the election for months by an application
to the circuit court of appeals .... At the present time 10 cases for
review of the Board's election orders are pending in the circuit courts
of appeals. Only three have been argued and none have been decided." House Rep., No. 1147, Committee on Labor, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 6.
""There is no more reason for court review prior to an election than
for court review prior to a hearing. But if subsequently the Board
makes an order predicated upon the election, suth as an order to
,bargain collectively with elected representatives, then the entire election procedure becomes part of the record upon which the order of
the Board is based, and is fully reviewable by an aggrieved party in
the Federal courts in the manner provided in section 10. And this
review would include within its scope the action of the Board in determining the appropriate unit for purposes of the election. This
provides a complete guarantee against arbitrary action by the Board."
Sen. Rep. 573, Committee on Education dnd Labor, 74th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 14.
"As previously stated in this report, the efficacy of Public Resolution 44 has been substantially impaired by the provision for court
review of election orders prior to the holding of the election. Section
9 (d) of the bill makes clear that 'there is to be no court review prior
to the holding of the election, and provides an exclusive, complete, and

A. F. OF L. v. LABOR BOARD.
401

Opinion of the Court.

The bill was similarly explained on the Senate floor by
the committee chairman who declared: "It provides for
review in the courts only after the election has been held
and the Board has ordered the employer to do something
predicated upon the results of "an election." 79 Cong.
Rec., 7658. The conclusion is unavoidable that Congress,
as the result of a deliberate choice of conflicting policies,
has excluded representation certifications of the Board
from the review by federal appellate courts authorized by
thb Wagner Act except in the circumstances specified in
§9 (d).
An argument, much pressed upon us, is, in effect, that
Congress was mistaken in its judgment that the hearing
before the Board in proceedings under § 9 (c), with review
only when an order is made under § 10 (c) directing the
employer to do something "provides an appropriate safeguard and opportunity to be heard," House Rep., p. 23,
and that "this provides a complete guarantee against
arbitrary action by the Board," Sen. Rep., p. 14. It seems
to be thought that this failure to provide for a court review
is productive of peculiar hardships, which were perhaps
not foreseen in cases where the interests of rival unions
are affected.' But these are arguments to be addressed to
adequate remedy whenever an order of the Board made pursuant to
section 10 (c) is based in whole or in part upon facts certified following an election or other investigation pursuant to section 9 (c). The
hearing required to be held in any such investigation provides an
appropriate safeguard and opportunity to be heard. Since the certification and the record of the investigation are required to be included
in the transcript of the entire record filed pursuant to section 10 (e)
or (f), the Board's actions and determinations of fact and law in regard thereto will be subject to the same court review as is provided
for its other determinations under sections 10 (b) and 10 (c)." House
Rep., No. 1147, Committee on Labor, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 23.
'Congress apparently recognized that representation proceedings
under § 9(c) might involve rival unions. The House Committee said:
"Section 9 (c) makes provision for elections to be conducted by the
Board or its agents or agencies to ascertain the representatives of em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Congress and not the courts. The argument too that
Congress has infringed due process by withholding from
federal appellate courts a jurisdiction which they never
possessed is similarly without force. Shannahanv. United
States, 303 U. S. 596; see In re National Labor Relations
Board, 304 U. S. 486, 495.
The Board argues that the provisions of the Wagner
Act, particularly § 9 (d), have foreclosed review of its
challenged action by independent suit in the district
court, such as was allowed under other acts providing for
a limited court review in Shields v. Utah Idaho Central
R. Co., 305 U. S. 177, and in Utah Fuel Co. v. National
Bituminous Coal Comm'n, 306 U. S. 56; cf. Myers v.
Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp., 303 U. S. 41. But that
question is not presented for decision by the record before us. Its answer involves a determination whether
the Wagner Act, in so far as it has given legally enforceable rights, has deprived the district courts of some portion of their original jurisdiction conferred by § 24 of
the Judicial Code. It can be appropriately answered only
upon a showing in such a suit that unlawful action of the
Board has inflicted an injury on the petitioners for which
the law, apart from the review provisions of the Wagner
Act, affords a remedy. This question can be properly
and adequately considered only when it is brought to
us for review upon a suitable record.
Affirmed.
ployees. The question will ordinarily arise as between two or more
bona fide organizations competing to represent the employees, but the,
authority granted here is broad enough to take in the not infrequent
case where only one such organized group is pressing for recognition,
and its claim of representation is challenged." H. Rep. No. 1147, Committee on Labor, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 22.

