LABOR BOARD v. NEWPORT NEWS CO.

241

Syllabus

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING & DRY DOCK CO.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 20. Argued November 6, 7, 1939.--Decided December 4, 1939.
1. Upon review of an order of the National Labor Relations Board,
the Circuit Court of Appeals may consider additional facts, occurring before the decision and order of theBoa'rd had been promulgated, which the Board in a supplemental certificate certified as
part of the record. P. 248.
2. Upon review of an order of the National Labor Relations Board,
the Circuit Court of Appeals may not consider facts contained in
briefs filed in the proceeding in that court, but which are not a
part of the record certified by the Board. Such facts may be
added to the certified record only in the manner prescribed by § 10
(e) of the Act. P. 249.
3. A finding by the National Labor Relations Board that an employer had dominated, given financial and other assistance to, and
interfered wiih the administration of a labor organization of its
employees, held supported by substantial evidence. P. 250.
4. A provision in a plan for the governance of a labor organization,
whereby the plan may not be amended without the approval of
the employer, deprives the employees of the complete freedom of
action guaranteed to them by the National Labor Relations
Act. P. 249.
5. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring an
employer to withdraw recognition from an organization of its
employees and to disestablish it-based upon the Board's finding,
supported by evidence, that the employer had for years dominated
and interfered with the organization, and the Board's onclusion,
warranted by the record, that because of that history the organization was incapable of serving the employees as their genuine representative for the purpose of collective bargaining-ustained.
P. 251.
Upon the record in this case, the Board was authorized to order
the disestablishment of the labor organization, notwithstanding the
facts that the organization had operated to the apparent satisfaction of the employees; that no serious labor disputes had

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

occurred during its existence; and that in a referendum the employees had signified their desire for its continuance.
101 F. 2d 841, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 617, to review a decree modifying
and directing the enforcement, as modified, of an order
of the National Labor Relations Board.

Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson and Messrs. Charles A. Horsky, Robert B. Watts,
Laurence A. Knapp, Mortimer B. Wolf, and A. Norman
Somers were on the 1.rief, for petitioner.
Mr. H. H. Rumble, with whom Messrs. Fred H. Skinner
and John Marshall were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Frank A. Kearney, with whom Mr. Percy Carmel
was on the brief, for the Employees' Representative
Committee, intervener, urging affirmance .
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In a case duly instituted and heard, the National Labor
Relations Board issued an order,' pursuant to the provisions of § 10 (c) 2 of the National Labor Relations Act,
requiring the respondent, Newport News Shipbuilding &
Dry Dock Company: (1) to cease and desist from (a)
dominating or otherwise interfering with the administration of the Employees' Representative Committee, a labor organization,3 or the formation or administration of
any other labor organization of its employes; (b) from
28 N. L. R. B. 866.
249
Stat. 449, 454; 29 U. S. C. Supp. IV, § 160 (c).
'The Committee was granted leave to intervene, produced evidence,
and participated in the argument before the Board, and was heard in
the court below and in this Court.

LABOR BOARD v. NEWPORT NEWS CO.
241

243

Opinion of the Court.

interfering with, restraining, or coercing its employes in
the exercise of the right guaranteed them by § 7 " of the
Act. The order further required the company (2) to
take affirmative action, namely: (a) to withdraw all
recognition from the Committee as the representative of
any of its employes for the purpose of dealing with the
company concerning labor conditions and wages, and
completely to disestablish the Committee as such representative; (b) to post copies of the order throughout the
plant; (c) to maintain said notices for thirty days; and
(d) to notify the Board's Regional Director of the steps
taken to comply with the order.
The order was based upon findings that the respor dent
had dominated and interfered with the formation and
administration of the Committee, had contributed to it
financial and other support, and was still dominating and
interfering with the Committee, contrary to § 8 (1) and
(2)' of the Act."
The Company petitioned the Circuit Court of Appeals
for review. The Board answered praying that the court
dismiss the company's petition and decree enforcement.
The court held that the Board had jurisdiction of the
cause, but that its holding that the company had dominated and interfered with the formation and administration of the Committee was without support in the evidence. The court decreed that 1(a) and (b) and § 2
(b) (c) and (d) of the Board's order should be enforced
but that § 2 (a), which required the withdrawal of recognition of the Committee and. its disestablishment as a
representative of the employes, should be stricken from
'49 Stat. 449, 452; 29 U.S. C. Supp. IV, § 157.
'49 Stat. 449, 452; 29 U. S. C. Supp. IV, § 158.
° The complaint also charged that the respondent had discharged
certain employes for union activity and had thus violated § 8 (3) of
the Act but the Board dismissed this charge. -

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the order. We granted certiorari because of asserted conflict with decisions of this court
The respondent does not press the claim advanced in
the court below that the Board lacked jurisdiction. The
sole issue here joined is as to the propriety of that portion
of the Board's order which constrained the respondent to
withdraw recognition of the Committee and to disestablish it as the bargaining representative of the employes.
Resolution of the issue requires that we determine
whether the Board's ultimate finding of domination and
interference by the employer has substantial support in
the evidence.
The Board's subsidiary findings of fact are not the subject of serious controversy. The respondent attacks the
ultimate conclusion of fact as unjustified by the subsidiary findings and further contends that the conclusion
could not have been reached had not the Board ignored
and refused to find other relevant facts which were either
stipulated or proved without contradiction.
The Board's findings were to the following effect: In
1927, in co6peration with its employes, the respondent
put into effect a plan of employe representation known
as "Representation of Employes." The preamble-of the
plan stated that its purpose ws to give employes a voice
in respect of the conditions of their labor and to provide
a procedure for the prevention and adjustment of future
differences. Under the plan the employes were to elect
representatives each of whom was paid $100 per year
for services as such. No one holding a supervisory position was eligible to serve as a representative or to vote
for a representative. Administration of the plan was
vested in certain joint committees each of which con'National Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines,
303 U. S. 261; National Labor Relations Board v. Fansteel Metallurgical Corp., 306 U. S. 240.

LABOR BOARD v. NEWPORT NEWS CO.
241

245

Opinion of tho- Court.

sisted of five elected representatives and not more than
five representatives chosen from amongst the employes
by the management. There was provision for a Management's Representative whose function was "to keep
the management in touch with the representatives and
represent the management in negotiations with their officers and committees." A provision calling for the arbitration of differences was to become operative only
upon concurrence of the respondent's president.
Amendment of the plan could be made only by the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the full membership of
the Joint Committee on Rules or of a majority of all
the employes' representatives and all the representatives
of the management, at an annual conference. The plan
set forth that independence of action of elected representatives was guaranteed by permitting them to take
questions of discrimination to any of the superior officers,
to the Joint Committee, and to the president of the company.
There was no provision for the payment of dues.
The original
plan was revised in 1929, 1931, 1934, 1936,
and 1937.
By the 1931 revision, which was not materially altered
until 1937, a General Joint Committee was set up in lieu
of several joint committees theretofore constituted, and
two representatives were to be elected by the employes
in each department while the respondent was to appoint
an equal number of management representatives, a majority of each class of representatives constituting a
quorum. The annual remuneration to be paid elected
representatives by the company was reduced to $60.00.
The secretary of the General Joint Committee was paid
$5.00 monthly by the company. An Executive Committee was also established constituted of five elected
employe representatives and five representatives of
management.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Elections were arranged for by the management
representatives but, in so far as possible, were conducted
by the employes themselves.
A procedure was established for the adjustment of individual employe grievances, whereby, in event of failure
of settlement, notice was to be given to the president of
the company. Under the revised plan the General Joint
Committee met monthly to take action upon matters
presented by the Management Representative or by employe representatives or subcommittees; but finality of
the action of the General Joint Committee was dependent
upon approval by the respondent's president. Amendment of the plan, which could be accomplished by a twothirds vote of the entire General Joint Committee, became effective when approved by the president of the
company.
The last revision made in May 1937, after the validity
of the National Labor Relations Act had been sustained
by this court, originated in the General Joint Committee,
one-half of whose members represented the interests of
the respondent. The amended plan was referred to the
Executive Committee, similarly constituted, and to the
elected employe representatives, respectively. After announcement by the Management Representative that the
revision was acceptable to the respondent it was adopted
by the General Joint Committee. The personnel manager, and the general manager of the respondent, took
part in the revision of the plan. The secretary of the
Committee testified that this revision was undertaken
in order to bring the plan within the letter, as vwell as
within the spirit, of the Act.
The two principal changes made were the elimination
of payment of compensation by the respondent to elected
representatives of the employes and the substitution of
an Employes' Representative Committee, composed solely
of employe representatives elected by employes, for the

LABOR BOARD v. NEWPORT NEWS CO.
241

247

Opinion of the Court.

former General Joint Committee and the Joint Executive
Committee. The revised plan provides that action of
the Employes' Representative Committee "shall be final
and become effective upon agreement by the company";
and, further, that any article of the plan may be amended
by a vote of two-thirds of the entire membership of the
committee; and "amendments shall be in effect at the
time specified by the Employes' Representative Committee, unless disapproved by the company within fifteen
days after their passage."
The grievance procedure permits the presentation of
a grievance to the respondent's personnel manager, or its
general manager, in the event no settlement has theretofore been effected.
Upon the basis of these findings the Board concluded
that, from the inception of the plan in 1927 until its final
revision in 1937, the respondent dominated, assisted, and
interfered with the administration of the labor organization; and that the method followed for amendment of
the plan in 1937, and the provisions of the final revision,
leftthe company still in the position of dominating and
interfering in the formulation and administration of the
plan, contrary. to the provisions of § 7 of the Act. The
Board held that the Committee is, in the circumstances,
incapable of serving the employes as their genuine representative for the purpose of collective bargaining.
The respondent criticises several of the findings as
without support or contrary to uncontradicted evidence.
We do not stop to consider these contentions, since, without such findings,- there would still be a basis in the
record for the Board's conclusions.
The principal contention of the respondent is that the
Board ignored uncontradicted facts and refused to make
findings respecting them. The Board replies that it did
not ignore these facts, but omitted to find' them because
they were immaterial to the pivotal issues in the case. It

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

is uncontradicted that labor disputes have repeatedly
been settled under the plan; that since 1927 no labor
dispute has caused cessation of activities at the respondent's plant; that overwhelming majorities of the employes have participated in the election of representatives;
that the company has never objected to its employes
joining labor unions; that no discrimination has been
practiced against them because of -their membership in
outside unions; and that neither officials nor superior
employes not eligible to vote in the election of employes'
representatives, have interfered, or attempted to interfere, or use any influence, in connection with the election
of representatives.
Before the Board's decision and order had been promulgated a referendum was held at which a sweeping majority of the company's employes signified, by secret
ballot, their satisfaction with the plan as revised in 1937
and their desire for its continuance. Counsel for the
Committee requested the Board to certify these facts to
the Circuit Court of Appeals as part of the record before
the court. The Board, though not bound so to do, embodied these facts in a supplementary certificate. It
now takes the position that the only proper way to bring
these additional facts to the attention of the reviewing
court would have been by application to the court to
remand the cause for further findings, and as this was not
done, the certificate was irregular and should not have
been considered. We are unable to agree with this contention. We think the Circuit Court of Appeals cannot
be convicted of error in accepting the Board's supplemental certificate.
The Board urges that, notwithstanding the facts on
which the respondent relies, the structure of the Committee, under the 1937 plan, renders the organization incompetent to meet the requirements of the National
Labor Relations Act; and further that, if its fundamental

LABOR BOARD v. NEWPORT NEWS CO.
241

249

Opinion of the Court.

law were free from defect, the history of its organization
and administration would require that it be disestablished as the bargaining agency of the employes.
Prior to the adoption of the Wagner Act the plan did
not run counter to any federal law, either in conception
or administration. The respondent, however, ooncedes
that sundry features of the plan, as then formulated, conflict with the provisions of the statute. Both employer
and employes so recognized when they undertook the
revision of 1937 for the purpose of bringing the plan
within the spirit and the letter of the Act.
The Board has concluded that the provisions embodied
in the final revision, whereby action of the Committee
requires, for its effectiveness, the agreement of the company, and .whereby amendment of the plan can become
effective only if the company fails to signify its disapproval within fifteen days of adoption, still give the
respondent such power of control that the plan is in the
teeth of the expressed policy and the specific prohibitions
of the Act. The respondent argues that these provisions
affect only the company and not the employes; that, in
collective bargaining, there is always reserved to the employer the right to qualify or to reject the propositions
advanced by the employes. Whatever may be said of
the first mentioned provision, this explanation will not
hold for the second. The plan may not be amended if
the company disapproves the amendment. Such control
of the form and structure of an employe organization
deprives the employes of the complete freedom of action
guaranteed to them by the Act, and justifies an order
such as was here entered. The court below, in its opinion, states it was advised in a brief after the hearing in
that court, that the plan had -been amended by striking
out the provisions in question. It concludes, therefore,
that their previous existence is immaterial. The statute
expressly deprives the reviewing court of power to con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

sider facts thus brought to its attention. The case must
be heard on the record as certified by the Board. The
appropriate procedure to add facts to the record as certified is prescribed in § 10 (e) of the Act.
But we think that if the record disclosed such an alteration of the plan, the order of the Board could not be
held erroneous. The Board held that, where an organization has existed for ten years and has functioned in
the way that the Committee has functioned, with a joint
control vested in management and men, the effects of the
long practice cannot be eliminated and the employes
rendered entirely free to act upon their own initiative
without the complete disestablishment of the plan. On
the record as made we cannot say this was error.
While the men are free to adopt any form of organization and representation whether purely local or connected
with a national body, their purpose so to do may be
obstructed by the existence and recognition by the management of an old plan or organization the original structure or operation of which was not in accordance with
the provisions of the law. Sec. 10(c) was not intended
to give the Board power of punishment or retribution
for past wrongs or errors. Action under that section
must be limited to the effectuation of th6 policies of the
Act. One of these is that the employes shall be free to
choose such form of organization as they wish.
As pointed out in National Labor Relations Board v.
Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, disestablishment of a bargaining unit previously dominated by
the employer may be the only effective way of wiping the
slate clean and affording the employes an opportunity
to start afresh in organizing for the adjustment of their
relations with the, employer. Compare National Labor
-Relations Board v. Fansteel Metallurgical Corp., 306
U. S. 240, 262.

LABOR BOARD v. NEWPORT NEWS CO. 251
241

Opinion of the Cotirt.

The court below agreed with the respondent that, as
the Committee had operated to the apparent satisfaction
of the employes; as serious labor disputes had not occurred during its existence; and as the men at an election
held under the auspices of the Committee had signified
their desire for its continuance, it would be a proper
medium and ofie which the employer might continue to
recognize for the adjustment of labor disputes., The difficulty with the position is that the provisions of the
statute preclude such a disposition of the case. The law
provides that an employe organization shall be free from
interference or dominance by the employer. We cannot
say that, upon the uncontradicted facts, the Board erred
in its conclusion that the purpose of the law could not
be attained without complete disestablishment of the
existing organization which had been dominated and
controlled to a greater or less extent by the respondent.
In applying the statutory test of independence it is immaterial that the plan had in fact not engendered, or indeed had obviated, serious labor disputes in the past, or
that any company interference in the administration of
the plan had been incidental rather than fundamental
and with good motives. It was for Congress to determine
whether, as a matter of policy, such a plan should be permitted to continue in force. We think the statute plainly
evinces a contrary purpose, and that the Board's conclusions are in accord with that purpose.
The decree must be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.

