OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

Other arguments, drawn from the legislative history
of § 77 and from the general equity powers conferred by
§ 77(a) and § (77)(c)(2)," were urged but we deem it
unnecessary to say more.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

and decision of this cause.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. WILSHIRE OIL CO., INC.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Argued October 9, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.
1. An oil company which pursuant to a Treasury Regulation elected
irrevocably to deduct development expenses from gross income in
computing its taxable net income rather than charge them to
capital account, and which made this election at a time when
Treasury practice under the Revenue Acts of 1921, § 234 (a) (9),
and 1924, § 204 (c), required that "operative expenses" but not
expenses of development be deducted from gross in.ome in computing "the net income from the property" which limits the depletion
allowance, has no ground to attack as retroactive a later regulation made under the Revenue Act of 1928, § 114 (b)\(3), and
looking to the future, which requires that development, as well as
operative, expenses be deducted in the computation. P. 97.
"In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, lnd other decisions of this Court cited
by petitioners deal with attempts at "physical invasion" of the prop,
erties held in the custody of a federal court. See 149 U. S. at 182.
Section 65 of the Judicial Code (36 Stat. 1104, 28 U. S. C. § 124)
decisively indicates that Congress did not intend that those who operate a business under the control of a federal court should be immune
from the regulatory authority of the several states any more than they
are from their taxing power.
* See No. 2, Helvering v. Bandini Petroleum Co. and No. 3, Helvering v. Wilshire Annex Oil Co., post, p. 512.

HELVERING v. WILSHIRE OIL CO.
90

91

Syllabus.

Tax statutes and regulations are subject to change. The taxpayer in making its election took the risk that the method of treating depletion might be altered by statute or authorized regulation.
2. The claim that it was inequitable in the present case to alter the
regulations in the manner above described after the taxpayer had
made its irrevocable election in its return for the year 1925, can
not be allowed in view of the fact that in 1927, after the basis of
depletion had been changed by the Act of 1926 from a "discovery
value" to a percentage basis, an opportunity to make a new election
cs to the treatment of development expenses for taxable periods
ending on or after January 1, 1925, was offered by Treasury
decision, of which the taxpayer failed to take advantage. P. 97.
An opinion of the General Counsel of the Treasury is considered
in this case, in connection with a Treasury decision, as affording
notice that a change might be made in the practice touching the
treatment of development expenses in determining depletion
allowances for oil wells.
3. The term "net income from the property," used in the Revenue
Acts of 1921, 1924, 1926 and 1928 as a limitation upon allowance
for depletion of mines, including oil wells, was construed by the
Treasury, under the two earlier statutes, as meaning gross income
from the property less "operating expenses," not including development expenses. Under the Act of 1026, however, (which
adopted an arbitrary percentage of gross receipts, instead of "discovery value," as the basis of depletion allowances for oil and gas
wells) the Treasury changed its policy in respect of such deductions
and altered its regulation; and under the Act of 1928, it promulgated a regulation which required that development expenses as
well as operating expenses be deducted in computing the net income
limitation on depletion where the taxpayer had elected to deduct
development expenses in computation of taxable net income. Held:
(1) That the legislative approval of the earlier administrative
construction of the term "net income from .the property," implied
from the reenactment in 1924 of the statutory provision of 1921,
can not be attributed also to the reenactment of 1928, in view of
the intervening change of Treasury construction of the same
statutory language in the Act of 1926. P. 99.
(2) The statement that administrative construction receives
legislative approval by reenactment of a statutory provision without material change, applies where the validity of administrative
action standing by itself may be dubious or where ambiguities in a
statute or rules are resolved by reference to administrative practice

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

prior to reenactment of a statute; and where it does not appear
that the rule or practice has. been changed by the administrative
agency through exercise of its continuing rule-making power. It
does not mean that a regulation interpreting a provision of one
Act becomes frozen into another Act merely by reenactment of that
provision, so that that administrative interpretation can not be
changed prospectively through exercise of appropriate rule-making
powers. P. 100.
4. The power conferred by § 23 (1) of the Revenue Act of 1928 to
make rules and regulations for the computation of depletion allowances, extends to the percentage depletion allowance under § 114
(b) (3), and includes administrative construction of the ambiguous
phrase "net income from the property." P. 101.
Restrictions on that power should not be lightly imposed where
the incidence of such rules as are promulgated is prospective only.
95 F. 21 971, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 628, to review an affirmance by
the court below of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals
(35 B. T. A. 450) reducing a deficiency assessment.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and.Messrs. Sewall
Key and Ellis N. Slack were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph D. Brady for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents the question whether respondent,
Wilshire Oil*Company, Inc., in computing its net income
for the years 1929 land 1930 for the purpose of applying
the 50 per cent limitation on depletion allowance under
§ 114 (b) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 791),
may refuse to take as deductions certain development
expenditures,' where it has deducted those development
'These expenditures consisted of such items as labor, fuel and
power, materials and supplies, tool rental, truck and auto hire, repairs
to drilling equipment and depreciation upon equipment used in drilling.

HELVERING v. WILSHIRE OIL CO.
90

Opinion of the Court.

expenditures in computing its taxable net income for
those years. The Board of Tax Appeals held for the
respondent (35 B. T. A. 450) and that decision was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, one judge dissenting (95 F. 2d 971). Because of the importance of
the problem of the scope of the Commissioner's rulemaking power and because of an asserted conflict of the
decision below with the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Commissioner v. F. H. E.
Oil Co., 102 F. 2d 596, we granted certiorari.
Respondent is engaged in the business of producing
oil and gas from its various properties. In computing
taxable net income in its returns for 1929 and 1930
respondent, pursuant to the regulations, deducted development expenditures in the respective amounts of
$606,051.66 and $279,927.04. But it refused to make
those deductions in determining its "net income...
from the property" for the same years, when computing
allowable depletion under § 114 (b) (3) of the Revenue
Act of 1928.2
'For the year 1929 the Commissioper's computations were as
follows:
Gross Income from the properties ............. $1,001,375.17
Deductions: Production expense. $171,399.03
Development expense ............ 606,051.66
Total expenses .......................

777, 450.69

Net income from property (computed
without allowance for depletion) ...... $223,924.48
50 per cent of that income ...........
$111,962.24
The Commissioner limited the depletion allowance to the last mentioned figure since 50 per cent of the net income from the property as
thus computed was less than 271/2 per cent of the gross income.
Under the taxpayers computation, the net income for depletion purposes would be $1,001,375.17 less $171.399.03 or $829,976.14 and 50

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

That section provides:
"In the case of oil and gas wells the allowance for depletion shall be 27/2 per centum of the gross income
from the property during the taxable year. Such allowance shall not exceed 50 per centum of the net income
of the taxpayer (computed without allowance for depletion) from the property, except that in no case shall
the depletion allowance be less than it would be if computed without reference to this paragraph."
By virtue of § 23 of the Revenue Act of 1928 companies
like respondent were allowed as deductions in computing
net income a "reasonable allowance for depletion...
according to the peculiar conditions in each case; such
reasonable allowance in all cases to be made under rules
and regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner,
with the approval of the Secretary." Pursuant to that
rule-making power the phrase "net income of the taxpayer (computed without allowance for depletion)" as
used in § 114(b) (3) was defined by Treasury Regulations
74, Art. 221(i) promulgated under the 1928 Act as meaning "gross income from the sale of oil and gas" less certain
deductions including "development expenses (if the taxper cent thereof would not be less than 271/2 per cent of the gross

income.
For the year 1930 the Commissioner's computation showed a loss of
$194,869.22. He therefore ruled that since the percentage depletion
allowance was limited to 50 per cent of the net income from the properties and since the taxpayer had no such net income, no deduction on
account of percentage depletion could be allowed. The taxpayer refused, however, to deduct development expenses in the application of
the 50 per cent limitation and claimed a depletion deduction of
$42,528.91, arrived at as follows:
Gross income from the properties ............... $370, 448.72
Deductions: Production expense.............. 285,390.90
Net Income ............................
Depletion deduction (50 per cent of net income)..

$85, 057.82
$42,528.91

HELVERING v. WILSHIRE OIL CO.
90

Opinion of the Court.

payer has elected to deduct development expenses)
. . . but excluding any allowance for depletion." For
1025 respondent, having the option to treat these expenses as deductions for development expenses or as
charges to the capital account returnable through depletion, ' chose the former.
On these facts it would seem that Treasury Regulations 74, Art. 221(i) would require respondent to deduct
development expenses in computing "net income" as
used in § 114(b) (3), since respondent fell clearly within
the class described therein.
But respondent contends that these regulations as ap-.
plied to it for the taxable years in question are invalid.
Its argument runs as follows: (1) The phrase "net income . . . from the property" present in § 114 (b) (3)
originated in § 234 (a) (9) of the Revenue Act of 1921
(42 Stat. 227) and was reenacted without change in
§ 204,(c) of the 1924 Act (43 Stat. 253). It was also
carried over into § 204 (c) (2) of the 1926 Act (44 Stat.
9), when Congress adopted the present so-called percentage depletion formula. Shortly after the enactment of
the Revenue Act of 1921, Treasury Regulations were issued defining net "income . . . from the property" as
meaning gross income from the property less "operating
expenses." - A similar definition was given in the Treasury Regulations issued under the Revenue Act of 1924.1
The admitted Treasury practice under those two Acts
Treasury Regulations 69, Art. 223, promulgated under the Revenue
Act of 1926 provides that "such incidental expenses as are paid for
• ..development of the property may at the option of the taxpayer
be deducted as a development expense or charged to capital account
returnable through depletion ....

An election once made under the

provisions of this article will control the taxpayer's returns for all subsequent years."
'Treasury Regulations 62, Art. 201 (h).
"Treasury Regulations 65, Art. 201 (h).

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

was to permit net income from the property to be computed without regard to development expenditures.
Hence, respondent argues, the meaning of the phrase
"net income . . . from the property" had acquired a
plain and definite meaning, known to the Congress; thus
when that phrase was reenacted in the 1924 Act, the
Congress intended it to have the meaning which administrative practice had given it. And, the argument continues, that meaning having been adopted by the Congress in the 1924 Act, it clung to the same phrase in the
1926 Act I and in the 1928 Act, especially since the Commissioner prior to February 15, 1929 1 never did undertake by regulation or decision to give that phrase a meaning different from that which had been consistently
applied under the earlier Acts.
(2) Secondly, respondent contends that the fact that
it deducted development expenses in computing taxable
net income does not mean that it is required to make
the same deductions for the "net income" computation
under § 114 (b) (3) for the reason that it had no free
choice in the first of these computations. In that connection it points out that it was required to make these
deductions from gross income by reason of its election
in its 1925 return to treat these expenses as deductions
for development expenses rather than as charges to capital account returnable through depletion, an election
binding for all subsequent years. In that posture of the
'Respondent points to the Report of Committee on Ways and
Means on Revenue Bill of 1926 (H. Rep. No. 1, 69th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 6): "The discovery depletion deduction limitation of an amount not
in excess of 50 per cent of the net income of the taxpayer from the
property upon which discovery was made, provided in existing law, is
retained in this provision."
'The date when Treasury Regulations 74, Art. 221 (i), here in question, were promulgated.

HELVERING v. WILSHIRE OIL CO.
90

Opinion of the Court.

case it argues that the attempted change in the regulations here involved has a retroactive. effect, as applied
to it, and withdraws one of the important inducements
offered by the Commissioner in connection with the election which respondent made in its 1925 return.
We do not think that respondent's position is tenable.
As to respondent's claim of retroactivity, it is true that
the election made in connection with its 1925 return was
known to be binding for all subsequent years. It is
likewise true that it was made at a time when Treasury
practice did not require deduction of development expenses in making the computation under § 114(b) (3).
But that is no basis for a claim of retroactivity. Treasury Regulations 74, Art. 221(i) which required the deduction of development expenses for the purpose of the
computation under § 114(b) (3) were issued February
15, 1929 under the 1928 Act. These regulations applied
prospectively only and did not purport to reach back to
earlier years when the taxpayer relied on a different rule
or practice. Tax statutes and tax regulations never have
been static. Experience, changing needs, changing philosophies inevitably produce constant change in each.
One making an election in the 1925 return took the
risk that the method of treatment of depletion might
be changed by the Congress, or, where power existed,
by the Commissioner. Any other conclusion would make
the application of changes pursuant to regulations,
though prospective, dependent on fortuitous circumstances under which each taxpayer made such an election. Rigidity, as well as confusion, in administration
of tax laws would be the result.
But in this case there is another answer to respondent's claim that an inequity results by changing the
regulations after it had made its election in the 1925
return. On June 18, 1927, the Commissioner, with the

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

approval of the Secretary, issued a Treasury Decision
statihg that "In view of the change in the basis for depletion provided by the Revenue Act of 1926, in the case of
oil and gas wells, taxpayers may make a new election
as to the treatment" of development expenditures "for
taxable periods ending on or after January 1,1925, but
not later than six months after the date of this decision."
Taxpayers desiring to make a new election were required
to file amended returns for the taxable periods involved
within six months from the date of that decision. Thus
respondent, after Congress adopted the new percentage
depletion provision, was afforded ample opportunity to
make a new election. This it did not do. To be sure,
that Treasury Decision contained no notice of any projected change in the meaning of "net income . . . from
property" as used in § 114 (b) (3). But in September
1927 there issued a General Counsel's Memorandum " in
which it was stated that thereafter "if a taxpayer elects
to treat development expenditures as ordinary and nec-_.
essary business expenses . . . in computing taxable net
income, such expenditures must be deducted in determining the net income from the property, which amount
is used as a limitation in the computation of the depletion allowance based on income." To be sure, this was
merely an opinion of the General Counsel of the Bureau
and did not have the force or effect of a Treasury Decision. Yet in view of such ruling, there is now no reasonable basis for concluding that when respondent made
its second election in 1927 it had no basis for assuming
that the policy as respects "net income . . . from the
property" under the 1926 Act was or would be no different than it had been under the 1921 and 1924 Acts.
Therefore, in terms of equitable considerations respond-

'Treasury Decision 4025, Cum. Bul. VI-1, p. 75.
'0. C. M. 2315, Cum.Bul. VI-2, p. 21.

HELVERING v. WILSHIRE OIL CO.
90

Opinion of the Court.

ent has no just ground of complaint. On these facts
substantial justice requires that respondent take such
burdens as may flow from its election along with the
benefits.
Irrespective of these considerations, we think the regulations in question were valid. It is true, as stated by
respondent, that the regulations under the 1921 Act proVided that the "net income . . . from the property"
should be computed for purpose of the depletion allowance without regard to development expenditures. And
it may be assumed that that administrative construction received legislative approval by the rebnactment of
the statutory provision in the 1924 Act, without material
change. Cf. United States v. DakotaMontana Oil Co.,
288 U. S. 459, 466. But that does not mean that that
meaning survived both the 1926 and the 1928 Acts. In
the first place, there were no comparable regulations
under the 1926 Act0 ° In fact, the Commissioner under'0As respects discovery depletion in the case of mines under the
1926 Act, provisions similar to those under the 1921 and 1924 Acts
were retained. Treasury Regulations 69, Art. 201 (h): But this was
not true as respects oil and gas wells. Section 204 (c) (2) of the
Revenue Act of 1926 applied the percentage depletion allowance exclusively to "oil and gas wells." Treasury Regulations 69, Art. 221,
provided:
"Under section 204 (c) (2), in the case of oil and gas wells, a taxpayer may deduct for depletion an amount equal to 271/2 per cent of
the gross income from the property during the taxable year, but such
deduction shall not exceed 50 per cent of the net income of the taxpayer (computed without allowance for depletion) from the property.
In no case shall the deduction computed under this paragraph be less
than it would be if computed upon the basis of the cost of the property or its value at the basic date, as the case may be. In general, 'the
property,' as the term is used in section 204 (c) (2) and this article,
refers to the separate tracts or leases of the taxpayer."
Thus, it is apparent that, the delimitation implied in the permission
to deduct "operating expenses" present under the earlier regulations
disappeared from the 1926 regulations in case of oil and gas wells.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

took under that Act to follow the practice later set forth
in the regulations here in question. See Ambassador
Petroleum Co. v. Comimissioner, 81 F. 2d 474. Those
facts are of some significance here for they refute the
suggestion that ' the Congress in enacting the 1928 Act
was giving approval to an administrative construction
which had been given to comparable provisions of earlier
Acts but which was abandoned before the passage of the
1928 Act. The more reasonable inference seems to be
that reenactment of the provision in question by the 1928
Act at a time when Treasury policy as respects its construction had changed did nothing more than to restore,
to the phrase "net income . . . from the property" its
.original ambiguity. Accordingly that phrase became
peculiarly susceptible to new administrative interpretation. Helvering v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 306 U. S.
110; Morrissey v. Commissioner,296 U. S. 344.
But in any event, the validity of the regulations in
question seems clear. The oft-repeated statement that
administrative construction receives legislative approval
by reenactment of a statutory provision, without material
change (United States v. Dakota-MontanaOil Co., supra)
covers the situation where the validity of administrative
action standing by itself may be dubious or where ambiguities in a statute or rules are resolved by reference
to administrative practice prior to reenactment of a
statute; and where it does not appear that the rule or
practice has been changed by the administrative agency
'through exercise of its continuing rule-making power. It
does not mean that a regulation interpreting a provision
,of One act becomes frozen into another act merely by reenactment of that provision, so that that administrative
interpretation cannot be changed prospectively through
exercise of appropriate rule-making powers. Cf. Morrissey"
v. Commissioner,supra, at p. 355. The contrary conclusion

HELVERING v. WILSHIRE OIL CO.
90

Opinion of the Court.

would not only drastically curtail the scope and materially
impair the flexibility of administrative action; it would
produce a most awkward situation. Outstanding regulations which had survived one Act could be changed only
after a pre-view by the Congress. In preparation for
a new revenue Act the Commissioner would have to
prepare in advance new regulations covering old provisions. Their effectiveness would have to await Congressional approval of the new Act. The effect of such procedure, so far as time is concerned, would be precisely
the same as if these new regulations were submitted to
the Congress for approval. Such dilution of administrative powers would deprive the administrative process
of some of its most valuable qualities--ease of adjustment to change, flexibility in light of experience, swiftness in meeting new or emergency situations. It would
make the administrative process under these circumstances cumbersome and slow. Known inequities in existing regulations would have to await the advent of a
new revenue act. Paralysis in effort to keep abreast of
changes in business practices and new conditions would
redound at times to the detriment of the revenue; at
times to the disadvantage of the taxpayer. Likewise the
result would be to read into the grant of express administrative powers an implied condition that they were not
to be exercised unless, in effect, the Congress had consented. We do not believe that such impairment of the
administrative process is consistent with the statutory
scheme which the Congress has designed.
The only remaining question is whether Treasury lkegulations 74, Art. 221(i) were within the power of the
Commissioner to promulgate. That they were seems
clear beyond question. We are not dealing here, as was
this Court in Helvering v. R. J. Reynola4 Tobacco Co.,
supra, with regulations applied retroactively. These are

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

applied prospectively only. The rule-making power
here in question may be found in § 23(1) of the Revenue
Act of 1928. That section, after providing that companies like respondent were entitled, as a deduction in
computing net income, to a "reasonable allowance for
depletion . . according to the peculiar conditions in
each case," laid especial emphasis on the power of the
Commissioner to make rules for the computation of the
depletion allowance, by providing that "such reasonable
allowance in all cases is to be made under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner, with the
approval of the Secretary."
Respondent does not strongly urge that the'regulatory
power conferred by § 23(1) does not extend to the percentage depletion allowance under § 114(b)(3). Rather
the contention seems to be that to allow the Commissioner by regulation to change the measure of "net income . . . from the property" from time to time,
especially, in the manner here attempted, would be to
approve a result equally as contrary to the intention of
Congress as if he had attempted by regulation to change
the percentage factors themselves. But the scope or
importance of the change effected by the regulations is
immaterial if the power to promulgate such regulations
exists. Here the Congress has not prescribed a precise
formula free from all ambiguity. The ambiguous phrase
"net income . . . from the property" was susceptible of
various meanings and hence administrative interpretation of it was peculiarly appropriate, as we have said.
And there were special reasons growing out of the complex nature of the depletion problem as it is treated for
purposes of the income tax, for requiring the Commissioner to make precise the vague elements of that formula.
In its general aspects under revenue acts depletion is a
problem on which taxpayers, government and accountants

HELVERING v. WILSHIRE OIL CO. ,
90

103

Opinion of the Court.

have expressed a contrariety of opinions." Obfuscation
in attempted application of its principles under income
tax laws has frequently been tle result. The Congress
itself, as revealed in the history of the revenue acts, has
expressed varying philosophies. In practical administration of any one statute there are admittedly borderline
cases between deductible business expenses and nondeductible capital outlays. On specific fact situations
the clear line between depletion, depreciation, and obsolescence often becomes blurred." What those lines are or
should be is for the Congress and the Commissioner.
Experience and new insight can be expected to produce
rather constant change. In sum, the highly technical
and involved factors entering into a practical solution
of the problem of depletion in administration of the tax
laws points to the necessity of interpreting § 23(1) so as
to strengthen rather than to weaken the administrative
powers to deal with it equitably and reasonably. These
considerations are persuasive here not only in reaffirming
the conclusion that the rule-making power existed, but
also in concluding that restrictions on that power should
not be lightly imposed where the incidence of such rules
as are promulgated is prospective only.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

and MR.

JUSTICE REED

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
2 Paul & Mertens, The Law of Federal Income Taxation (1934),
ch. 21; 47 Yale L. Journ. 806 (1938).
' See for example the issues posed in United States v. DakotaMontana Oil Co., 8upra.

