HAGGAR CO. v. HELVERING.
Syllabus.

378

thought, under the compulsion of its former decision, that
it must disregard those requirements, we think that the
cause should be returned to the Court of Appeals to be
decided by it, free of that compulsion.
To afford that freedom we reverse the judgment5 and
remand.
Reversed.

HAGGAR COMPANY v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 176.

Argued December 15, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. A literal reading which leads to absurd results will be avoided
when the statute can be given a reasonable application consistent
with its words and purpose. P. 394.
2. Sections 215 and 216 of the National Industrial Recovery Act
impose on domestic corporations an annual capital stock tax and
an annual tax on profits in excess of 121/2 per cent of the capital
stock, both calculated on the basis of the value of the capital stock
as declared by the corporation's return for the first year in which
the tax is imposed, "which declaration of value can not be
amended." For any subsequent year the adjusted declared value
shall be the original declared value as changed by certain prescribed capital adjustments. Held:
(1) That the purpose is to allow the takpayer to fix for itsojf
the amount of the taxable base with the proviso that the amount
thus fixed for the first taxable year shall be accepted, with only
s bch changes as the statute provides, for the purpose of computing
the capital stock and excess profits taxes in the later years.
P. 394.
(2) The phrase "first return" means a return for the first year
in which the taxpayer exercises the privilege of fixing its capital
stock value for tax purposes. P. 395.
(3) This includes a timely amended return for that year.
P. 396.
3. A Treasury Regulation which changes an earlier construction of a
statute without serving any governmental convenience or purpose

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

or embodying results of specialized departmental knowledge or
experience, and which contradicts the statutory purposes and the
plain meafning of its words, will not be followed. P. 398.
4. An amendment of a statute passed for the purpose of precluding
for the future an earlier administrative construction, held not an
adoption of that construction as the one intended by the original
enactment. P. 398.
5 ' Semble that retroactive declarations of legislative intent, prejudicial to those who have acted under an earlier statute whose construction seems clear, ought not to be implied more than the
legislative intention to give retroactive operation to a new statute.
P. 400.
104 F. 2d 24, reversed.
CNRTIORARI, post, p. 533, to review fle affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 38 B. T. A. 141,
approving a deficiency assessment of excess profits tax.

Mr. Thomas M. Wilkins, witl. whom Mr. Lloyd E.
Elliott was on the brief, for petitioner.
Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and W. Croft Jennings were on the brief, for
respondent.
-

By leave of Court, Mr. Theodore B. Benson filed a brief
(Mr. John J. Fitzgerald,for Blake & Kendall Company,
of counsel) on behalf of-the Philadelphia Brewing Company, as amicus curiae, in support of the petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Decision in this case turns on -the question whether a
capital stock tax return filed pursuant to § 215 of the
National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933, 48 Stat. 195,
207, may be amended within the time fixed for filing the
retrm

HAGGAR CO. v. HELVERING.
389

391

Opini6n of the Court.

Sections 415 and 216 of the National Industrial Recovery Act impose interrelated taxes on domestic corporations, namely an annual capital stock tax and an annual
tax on profits in excess of 12/2 per cent of the capital
stock, calculated on the basis of the value of the capital
stock as'fixed by the corporation's return for tht first
year in which the tax is imposed.
Section 215 (a) imposes on domestic corporations dn
annual tax with respect to carrying on or doing business
for any part of the taxable year at the rate of "$1 for
each $1,000 of the adjusted declared value of its capital
stock." Section 215 (f) provides that "For the first year
ending June 30 in respect of which a tax is imposed by
this section upon any corporation, the adjusted declared:
value shall be the value, as declared by the corporation
in its first return under this section (which declaration of
value cannot be amended), as of the close of its last income-tax taxable year ending at or prior to the close of
the year for which the tax is imposed by this section ...
For any subsequent year ending June 30, the adjusted
declared value in the case of a domestic corporation shall
be the original declared value" as changed by certain
prescribed capital adjustments occasioned by increases
and decreases of capital occurring after "the date as of
which the original declared value was declared." Section
216 (a) imposes an. annual tax upon so much of the net
income of a corporation taxable under § 215 (a) as is in.
excess of 12 per cent of the "adjusted declared value of
its capital stock . . . as of the close of the preceding
income-tax taxable year (or as of the date of organization
if it had no preceding incbme-tax taxable year) ..
It -will be observed that by .§ 215 (a) and (f) the
declared value of capital stock which, is made the- basis
of computation of both taxes is not required to. conform
either to the actual or to the nominal capital of the tax-

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

paying corporation; and that the declared value for the
first taxable year, with the addition or subtraction of
specified items of subsequent capital gains or losses is
made the basis of the computation of both taxes in later
years. The taxpayer is thus left free to declare any
value of capital stock for its first taxable year which it
may elect, but since the declared value for the first year
is a controlling factor for the computation of taxes for
later years, the statute provides that the declaration once
-made cannot be 'amended. Because of the method of
computation, increase or decrease i the declared value
of c'apital, and of the corresponding tax, produces, as the
case may be, a decrease or an increase in the tax on
excess profits.
In August, 1933, petitioner, a Texas corporation, mistakenly believing that it was required to state the par
value of its issued capital stock in its tax return, filed a
tiniely return for the year ending June 30, 1933, declaring the value of its entire capital stock to be $120,000 and,
paid the tax of $120. The date for filing returns for
that year having been extended to September 29, 1933,
T. D. 4368, 4386, petitioner before that date filed an
amended return, declaring the value of its capital stock
to be $250,000. On March 15, 1934, petitioner filed its
income and excess profits tax return for the calendar year
1933. The Commissioner, having refused. to accept the
amended capital stock return, gave notice of a deficiency
in. the excess profits tax calculated upon the basis of the
capital stock value of $120,000 as declared in petitioner's
original return.
The Board of Tax Appeals determined that petitioner's
capital stock and excess profits tax should be computed
on the basis of $120,000. capital stock value, as originally
stated instead of $250,000 stock value declared in its
amended return, found a deficiency, and entered its order
accordingly. 38 B. T. A. .141. The Circuit Court of

HAGGAR CO. v. HELVERING.
389

Opinion of the Court.

Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed, holding that
§ 215 (f) by its terms precluded any' amendment of the
tax return for the first year even though made within
the time allowed for filing the return. 104 F. 2d 24. We
granted certiorari October 9, 1939, to resolve a conflict of
the decision below with that of the Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit in Glenn v. Oertel Co., 97 F. 2d 495,
and that of the Court of Claims in PhiladelphiaBrewing
Co. v. United States, 27 F. Supp. 583.
The Commissioner founds his argument in support
of the decision below upon a literal reading of the introductory sentence of § 215 (f) already quoted, which,
he argues, precludes even a timely amendment of the tax
return for the first year, and upon the administrative
and Congressional interpretation of the statute. He insists that the phrase "first return" in the clause "declaredvalue shall be the value as declared by the corporation. in
its first return under this section (which declaration of
vahle cannot be amended)," means the first paper filed
by the taxpayer as a return, and that these words plainly
forbid any amendment of the declared value of the capital stock, even though made within the time allowed
for filing the return.
In making these contentions the Commissioner concedes that the amount of, the declared value of capital
fixed fQr the first year is a matter of indiffefence to the
Government since the statute leaves the taxpayer free
to declare any amount which its fancy may choose and
that for any reduction in capital stock effpcted by the
declaration of a low value of the capital stock there .is
an accompanying increase in excess profits taxes. He
concedes that if petitioner had filed but a single return
on the date of filing the amended return, stating, the
value of the capital stock as $250,000 instead of $120,000,
the Government would have been concluded by the faxpayer's declaration and that' it has long been the practioe

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

of the department, in the cases of other types of tax to
accept an amended return, filed within the period allowed
for filing returns, as the return of the taxpayer for the
taxable year. He concedes also, as he logically must,
that the argument leads to the conclusion that a mistake
in the declaration of value whether of law or of fact,
however serious and excusable, cannot be corrected by
a timely amendment of the return.
All statutes must be construed in the light of their
purpose. A literal reading of them which would lead to
absurd results is to be avoided when they can be given
a reasonable application consistent with their words and
with the legislative purpose. Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190
U. S. 197; United States v. Katz, 271 U. S. 354; Sorrells
v. United States, 287 U. S.435, 446; Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280, 285; Armstrong Co. v. Nu-Enamel
Corp., 305. U. S. 315, 332-3. Here the purpose of the
statute is unmistakable. It is to allow the taxpayer to
fix for itself the amount of the taxable base for purposes
of computation of the capital stock tax, but with the
proviso that the amount thus fixed for the first taxable
year shall be accepted, with only such changes as the
statute prescribes for the purpose of computing the capital stock and excess profits taxes in later years. Congress
thus avoided the necessity of prescribing a: formula for
arriving at the actual value of capital for thb purpose of
computing excess profits taxes, which had'been found
productive of much litigation under earlier taxing acts,
see Sen. Rep. 52, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 11-12; cf.
Ray CoMolidated Copper Co. v. United States, 268 U. S.
373, 376. At the same time it guarded against loss of
revenue to the Government through understatements
'f capital, by providing for an increase in excess profits
tax under § 216 ensuing from such understatements.
It is plain that none of these purposes would have been
thwarted and no interest of the Government would have

HAGGAR CO. v. HELVERING.
389

Opinion of the Court.

been harmed had the Commissioner, in conformity to
established departmental practice, accepted the petitioner's amended declaration. It is equally plain that by its
rejection petitioner has been denied an opportunity to
make a declaration of capital stock value which it was
the obvious purpose of the statute to give, and that denial
is for no'other reason than that the declaration appeared
in an amended instead of an unamended return. We
think that the words of the statute, fairly read in the
light of the purpose, disclosed by its own terms, require
no such harsh and incongruous result.
Section 215 nowhere mentions amendment of returns
or amended returns. It speaks of "declared value" for
the first tax year and provides that the "declaration of
value" cannot be amended. The "declaration of value" is
that of the corporation in its "first return under this
section." The "first return" as the context shows is the
return for the first tax year of. the taxpayer and the characterization of the return as "first" is obviously used to
distinguish the return made for the first year from the
return "for any subsequent year" in which the "adjusted
declared value" is required by the same section to conform to a formula based on the "declared value" for
the first year and which, for that reason, "cannot -be
amended."
"First return" thus means a return for the first year in
which the taxpayer exercises the privilege of fixing its
capital stock value for tax purposes, and includes a timely
amended return for that year. A timely amended return
is as much a "first return" for the purpose of fixing the
capital stock value in contradistinction to returns for
subsequent years, as is a single return filed by the taxpayer for the first tax year. Glenn v. Oertel Co., supra;
Philadelphia Brewing Co. v. United States, supra; see
also, similarly construing the phrase "first return" under
§ 114 (b) (4) of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stdt, 680,

OCTOBER TERM, '1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

710; C. H. Mead Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 106 F. 2d

388, 390; cf. Pacific National Co. v. Welch, 304 U. S. 191,
194. Thus read the statute gives full effect to its obvious
purposes and to the evident meaning of its words. To
construe "first yeturn" as meaning the first paper filed
as a return, as distinguished from the paper containing
a timely amendment, which, when filed is commonly
known as the return for the year for which it is filed, is to
defeat the purposes of the statute by dissociating the
phrase from its context and from the legislative purpose
in violation of the most elementary principles of statutory construction.
Article 24 of Treasury Regulations 64 (1933 ed.), under
§215 (f) of. the National Industrial Recovery Act, in
force when the petitioner filed its amended return, did not
call for any different construction from that which we
have indicated is the correct one. The article made no
mention of the "first return." It pointed out merely
that the original declared value would be the basis of the
tax for the first and later years, and stated "This value
once having been declared may not subsequently be
changed either by the corporation or by the commissioner." This evidently refers to the parenthetical clause
of § 215 (f)

"which declaration cannot be amended"

which phrase concededly does not preclude an effective
declaration of value in a timely amended return.'
Sections 215 and 216 of the National- Industrial Recovery Act were reenacted as § § 701 and 702 of the 1934
The Government concedes in its brief that the parenthetical
clause "which declarat~on cannot be amended" continued in the capital stock tax section, § 601, of the 1938 Revenue Act, 52 Stat. 447,
565, does not preclude an effective declaration of value in a timely
amended return for the first tax year. If the phrase "first return"
in § 215 (f) had that effect, then the- parenthetical phrase concededly. prohibiting amendments'in tax returns of later years would

have been superfluous.

HAGGAR CO. v. HELVERING.
389

Opinion of the Court.

Revenue Act, 48 Stat. 680, '769, 770. That act, § 703,
amended the National Industrial Recovery Act so as to
provide that the capital stock tax and excess profits tax
imposed by §§ 215 and 216 of the act last mentioned
should not apply respectively to any taxpayer in any year
except the years ending June 30, 1933 and June 30, 1934.
The amended Regulations 64 (1934 ed.), relating to §§ 701
and 702 of the Revenue Act of 1934, are prefaced with the
statement "It must constantly be borne in mind. that
these regulations relate only to the tax imposed by §701
of the Revenue Act of 1934. With respect to the tax
imposed by §215 of the National Industrial Recovery Act
consult Regulations 64, edition of 1933." This warning
was repeated in Regulations 64, 1936 edition, under the
corresponding §§ 105 and 106 of the 1935 Revenue Act, 49
Stat. 1014, 1017-i019.
Since the regulations under the Revenue Acts for 1934
and 1935 are thus made inapplicable to the taxpayer's
stock return under the National Industrial Recovery Act
for the year ending June 30, 1933, they are without force
for present purposes except as they are persuasive commentaries on the meaning of the language of §215 (f)
of the National Industrial Recovery Act which was carried forward into later revenue acts. Article 41 (d) of
Treasury Regulations 64, published under the 1934 Act,
declared that "First return means the first capital stock
tax return filed by a corporation for its first taxable
year," a definition which was continued in Article 44 of
Regulations 64 (1936 ed.), under the corresponding § 105
of the Revenue Act of 1935. Article 44 of the latter
regulation for the first time informed taxpayers that an
effective declaration of value for the first tax year could
not be made in a timely amended return, saying, "A
subsequent return declaring a different value, even
though filed before the expiration of the prescribed period,
is therefore not acceptable under the statute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

On the argument the Commissioner admitted that this
ruling served no administrative or governmental convenience or purpose apart from compliance with the supposed command of the statute. There is thus a complete
absence of those reasons which ordinarily lead courts to
give persuasive force to an administrative construction
and which justify their acceptance of it in preference to
their own. The regulations have not been consistent in
their interpretation of the statute and do not embody
the results of any specialized departmental knowledge or
experience. Cf. Brewster v. Gage, 280 U. S. 327, 336;
Estate of Sanford v. Commissioner, ante, p. 39. No one,
not even the Government, will be prejudiced by its rejection, and as we have said the construction flies in the
face of the purposes of the statute and the plain meaning
of its words. Judicial obeisance to administrative action
cannot be pressed so far.
It is said that Congress, by the change of the language
of the capital stock provisions adopted in the 1938 Revenue Act has attributed to the earlier statute the same
meaning as that ascribed to it by the administrative construction. It is familiar doctrine that Congress, by reenacting a section of* the Revenue Act without change,
approves and adopts a consistent administrative constructin'-of it. But here the argument is that by amendment
of the/staute, which would preclude such a construction
in the future, Congress has also declared, that the departmental construction was that intended by the earlier
Congress which enacted the statute.
Section 601 of the 1938 Act, 52 Stat. 447, 565, in addition to other changes in the capital stock and excess
profits tax provisions, prescribed that the "adjusted
declared value" should be determined with respect to
three year periods, beginaing with the year ending June
30, 1938, and denominated the first year of each period

HAGGAR CO. v. HELVERING.
389

Opinion of the Court.

a "declaration year." Section 601 (f) (2) provided that
the declared capital stock value for purposes of the tax.
shall be the value as declared by the corporation "in its
return for Such declaration year (which declaration of
value cannot be amended)." Since, under the new legislation, the return for the declaration year for each threeyear period and not that for the first tax year -.of the
taxpayer is controlling, there was no occasion for repeating the phrases "first year" and "first return" which had
appeared in the earlier legislation and the new section
dropped from the statute the words which had given rise
to the earlier administrative construction. This was
pointed out by the house committee report recommending
the amendment,' stating that the change would serve to
permit the taxpayer to amend its declaration by timely
amendment of the return for the declaration year and
adding, "denial of all opportunity for correction appears
unduly restrictive."
It must be assumed that Congress was aware through
its committees of the change in the regulations which in
1936 had construed the statute as precluding an effective
declaration in a timely amended return, and of the litigation then pending in this case and in Glenn v. Oertel Co.,
'"The new section also alleviates the rigid provision of section
105 (f) of the 1935 act that the valuation shall be as declared by the
corporation in its 'first' return. Errors of calculation or other errors
sometimes occur in first returns, and denial of all opportunity for cor rection appears unduly restrictive. Accordingly, the word 'first' as
it appears the second time in section 105 (f) of the 1935 act, as
amended, is eliminated from the corresponding language appearing
in subsection (f) (2) of the new section. This will serve to give a
corporation the right, so lorg as it acts within the time allowed for.
filing its return (including the last day of any extension period) Jor
the year for which a declaration of value is required, to file subsequent returns for that year showing a different valuation, the valuation shown by the last timely return being binding." H. Rept. 1860,
Committee on Ways and Means, 75th Cong., 3rd Sess., p. 62.

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

supra, in which the departmental construcdion had been
challenged as "unduly restrictive." In the face of the
legislative expression of dissatisfaction with the earlier
statute as construed, Congressional purpose to declare
that such was the intended meaning is not to be inferred
merely from the fact that the amendment providing for
the future said nothing as to the past. If we are to draw
inferences it would seem as probable that Congress was
content to leave the problems of the past to be solved by
the courts where they were then pending, rather than to
preclude their solution there. Action so ambiguous in
its implications as to the past is wanting in that certainty
and evident purpose which would justify its acceptance
as a legislative declaration of what an earlier Congress
had intended rather than an effort to make clear that
which had been rendered dubious by unwarranted administrative construction. Cf. Jordan v. Roche, 228 U. S.
436, 445; Helvering v. New York Trust Co., 292 U. S.
455; Noble v. Oklahoma City, 297 U. S. 481, 492. Retroactive declarations of legislative intent, prejudicial to
those who have acted under an earlier statute whose construction .seems clear, it would seem, ought not to be
implied more than the legislative intention to give retroactive operation to a new statute. See Hassett.v. Welch,
303 U. S. 303, 314 and cases cited; cf. Noble v. Oklahoma
City, supra.
Reversed.

