FORD MOTOR CO. v. BEAUCHAMP.
321

Syllabus.

ute and emphasis the offensive use which may be
made of intercepted messages, whether interstate or intrastate. It is not too much to assume the interdiction
of the statute was intended to prevent such a method
of procuring testimony..
We hold that ยง 605 rendered the communications inadmissible, and that it was prejudicial error for the trial
court to admit them either by permitting the defendants
who turned state's evidence to read the transcripts or
allowing the prosecutor to put the transcripts and phonographic records info evidence upon identification by the
parties to the conversations.
We have no occasion to consider or decide the questions
raised by the other objections of the petitioners to the
admission of the evidence.
The judgments are reversed and the cause is remanded
to the District CQurt for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
FORD MOTOR CO. v. BEAUCHAMP, SECRETARY
OF STATE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 17. Argued October 16, 17, 1939.-Decided December 11, 1939.
A state corporate franchise tax on the privilege of doing local business, measured by a charge upon such proportion of the outstanding capital stock, surplus, and undivided profits of the corporation, plus its long term obligations, as the. gross receipts from
its local business bear to the gross receipts of its entire business,
held constitutional. P. 334.
The gross receipts from the local business for the year in question were approximately $34,000,000; the total gross receipts about
$888,000,000; the ratio of local to total receipts, 3.85 per cent;
the total taxable capital $600,000,000; the value of local assets
about $3,000,000, while the value of the tapital allocated to the

,OCTOBER TERM, 1939.,
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

taxing State as a base for taxation by the statutory formula would
exceed $23,000,000.
100 F. 2d 515, affirmed.

CERTIoRARI, 306 U. S. 628, to review the affirmance by
the court below of a judgment sustaining a state tax.
Mr. Gaius G. Gannon, with whom Mr. Palmer Hutcheson was on the-brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Glenn R. Lewis, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, with whom Messrs. Gerald C. Mann, Attorney
General, and W. F. Moore, First Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion. of the
Court.
The question for determination in this proceeding is
the validity, as applied to this petitioner, of a'statute
of the State of Texas levying an annual franchise tax
on all corporations chartered or authorized to do business
in Texas, measured by a graduated charge upon such proportion of the outstanding capital stock, surplus and
undivided profits of the corporation, plus its long term
obligations, as the gross receipts of its Texas business
bear to the total gross receipts from its entire business.
The Court of AppealsI affirmed the judgment of the
District Court, upholding the validity of the tax. On
account of an alleged probable conflict with the principles
underlying certain decisions of this Court certiorari was
granted.! The applicable provisions of the.statute appear
below.'
'Ford Motor Co. v. Clark, 100 F. 2d 515.
2306 U. S. 628.
3
"Article 7084. Amount of Tax.-(A) Except as herein provided,
every domestic and foreign. corp6ration heretofore or hereafter chartered or authorized to do business in Texas, shall, . ... each ye.ar, pay

FORD MOTOR CO. v. BEAUCHAMP.
331

Opinion of the Court.

By Article 7057b of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas
any corporation which may be required to pay any franchise or other privilege tax may lay it under written
protest and bring suit within a limited time thereafter
in any court of competent jurisdiction in Travis County,
Texas, against the public official charged with the duty
of collecting such tax, the State Treasurer and the Attorney General, for its recovery. This suit was instituted
in the District Court of the United States, Western District, Austin Division, against the state officials authorized to be made defendants. Defendants joined in a
demurrer on the ground that no cause of action was' set
out in the petition.
Petitioner owns and operates a large manufactory of
motor vehicles in Michigan and assembly plants in
Texas. No parts for the automobiles produced by petitioner are manufactured at any point within Texas. The
manufactured parts are shipped to petitioner's assembly
plants in Texas and are there assembled. The assembled
vehicles are sold in intrastatd commerce to various dealers
who in turn sell the 'vehicles to the public. A relatively
small number of completed vehicles are shipped into
Texas and later sold in intrastate commerce along with
large quantities of motor parts and accessories. Without
undertaking to be precise, the gross receipts from business done in Texas for the year in question amounted to
approximately $34,000,000. Petitidner's total gross rea franchise tax . .. , based upon that proportion of the outstanding capital stock, surplus and undivided profits, plus the amouni of
outstanding bonds, notes and debentures, other than those maturing in
less than a year from date of issue, as the' gross' receipts from its business done in Texas bears to the total gross 'receipts of the corporation
from its entire business, which tax shall be computed at the following
rates for each One Thousand Dbllars ($1,000.00) or fractional .part
thereof; One Dollar ($1.00) to One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00),
sixty cents (60)
."

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

ceipts were about $888,000,000.

08 U. S.

The ratio of Texas

receipts'to total receipts was 3.85 + per cent.

Petitioner's

total taxable capital was $600,000,000+. The value of
all assets located in Texas was somewhat over $3 000,000,
while the value of the capital allocated to Texas as a base
for taxation by the statutory formula would be in excess
of $23,000,000.
For the taxable year beginning May 1, 1936, a franchise
tax was tendered Texas in the sum of $1,224, computed
on the actual net book value of all of petitioner's assets in
Texas. On demand and under protest an additional
franchise tax and penalty was paid in the sum of $7,529,
based on the allocation to Texas of capital as calculated
by the statutory formula. This suit was brought to recover the alleged unlawful exaction.
This exaction, petitioner pleads, is calculated from a
formula that results in the levy of a tax on assets used
in petitioner's interstate business in violation of Article I,
ยง 8, of the Constitution. It is further alleged that the
tax operates to deprive petitioner of its property without
due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment because it must pay a tax on property neither located nor used within the State of Texas and on activities
beyond the borders of Texas.
The statute calls the excise a franchise tax. It is obviously payment for the privilege of carrying on business
in Texas.' There is no question but that the State *~
the power to make a charge against domestic or foreign
corporations for the opportunity to transact this intrastate business.' The exploitation by foreign corporations
'Investment Securities Co. v. Meharg, 115 Texas 441; 282 S. W.
802; United North & South Development Co. v. Heath, 78 S. W. 2d
650 (Tex. Civ. App.).
'Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1, 21; American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459; Matson Nay. Co. v. State
Board, 297 U. S. 441; Western Live Stock v. Bureau, 303 U. S. 250;
Coverdals v. Pipe Line Co., 303 U. S. 604, 608.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. BEAUCHAMP.
331

Opinion of the Court.

of intrastate opportunities under the protection and encouragement of local government offers a basis for taxation as unrestricted as that for domestic corporations.
In laying a local privilege tax, the state sovereignty may
place a charge upon that privilege for the protection
afforded. When that charge, as here, is based upon the
proportion of the capital employed in Texas, calculated
by the percentage of sales which are within the state, no
provision of the Federal Constitution is violated.
The motor vehicles for the marketing of which the
privilege is used are concededly sold in intrastate com;
merce. The tax here levied is not for the privilege of
engaging in any transaction across state lines or activity
carried on -in *anotherstate. It is much like that upheld
in Bass, Ratcliff & Gretton v. Tax Commission.' In that
case a tax was laid for the privilege of doing business in
New York determined, for corporations which did not
transact all their business within that state, by a percentage of that part of the net income which is calculated by
the proportion which the aggregate of specified classes of
property within the state bears to all the property of the
corporation.!
In National Leather Co. v. Massachusetts8 this Court
upheld a tax for the privilege of doing business in a state
by a corporation of an amount "equal to five dollars per
thousand upon the value of the corporate excess employed
by it within the commonwealth." This excess was defined
as "such proportion of the fair cash value of all the shares
constituting the capital stock . . . as the value of the
assets, both real and personal, employed in any business
within the commonwealth . . . bears to the value of the
total assets of the corporation." The National Leather
Company, a Maine corporation, owned the stock of two
'266 U. S. 271.
'Cf. Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain,254 U. S. 113, 120.
S277

U. S. 413.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

other Maine corporations. Their plants were in Massachusetts. On the assumption that the situs of the stock
followed the domicile of. the owner, the taxpayer challenged the inclusion of the Maine stock in the basis for
the local tax. This Court held that Massachusetts was,
free to use the stock for the calculation of the local tax.
Similar methods of determining privilege taxes were left
to the.states in International Shoe Co. v. Shartel' and
0
The Constitution recognizes
New York v. Latrobe."
the dual interests of the national and state governments
and permits taxes for local privileges upon the intrastate
activities of the farflung enterprises which gain large
benefits from the nationwide market, protected by the
commerce clause. We reject petitioner's contention that
constitutionality of state taxation turns on so narrow an
issue as whether local assets rather than local gross receipts are used in a taxing formula.
In a unitary enterprise, property outside the state, when
correlated in use with property within the state, necessarily affects the worth of the privilege within the state.
Financial power inherent in the possession of assets may
be applied, with flexibility, at whatever point within or
without the state the managers of the business may determine. For this reason it is held that an entrance fee
may be properly measured by capital wherever located."
The weight, in determining the value of the intrastate
privilege, given the properiy beyond the state boundaries
is but a recognition of the very real effect its existence has
upon the value of the privilege granted within the taxing
state. This was -recognized by this Court in Atlantic &
'279 U. S. 429.
279 U. S. 421.

Atlantic Rbfining Co. v. Virginia, 302 U. S. 22, 29; cf. Kansas City,
F. S. & M. Ry. Co. v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227, 235.

FORD MOTOR CO. v. BEAUCHAMP.
331

Opinion of the Court.

Pacific Tea Co. v. Grosjean 2 where an occupation or license tax on chain stores was graduated "on the number
of stores or mercantile establishments" included under
the same management "whether operated in this State or
not." We said: "The law rates the privilege enjoyed in
Louisiana according to the nature and extent of that
privilege in the light of the advantages, the capacity, and
the competitive ability of the chain's stores in Louisiana
considered not by themselves, as if they constituted the
whole organization, but in their setting as integral parts
of a much larger organization." "8 This same rule applies
here. James v. Dravo Contracting Co. 4 contains nothing
contrary to this view. The statute under consideration
there levied a privilege tax "equal to two per cent. of the
gross income of the business." In so far as it was upon
receipts in other states for work done in other states, it
was conceded to be outside of the taxing power of the
statute.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the judgment complained of should be reversed.
MR. JusTicE

BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOuGLAS concur

in the result.
-301 U. S. 412, 424-425.
"301 U. S. 425.
14302 U. S. 134, 139.

