OCTOBER TERM, 1939
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

In view of our determination that the federal Social
Security tax was not contemplated by the contract, we
need not discuss respondent's contention that the tax
paid under the Maryland Unemployment Compensation
Act was a tax "imposed . . . by . . . Congress."

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

TREINIES v. SUNSHINE MINING*CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 4. Argued October 10, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.
1. This Court inquires sua sponte into the question of the federal
court's jurisdiction of this case under the Interpleader Act of
January 20, 1936, since its own jurisdiction is affected thereby.
P. 70.
2. A bill interpleading one group of claimants, all of whom are citizens
of the same State, and another group claiming adversely, all of
whom are citizens of another State, of which la'ter State the
complainant himself is a citizen, satisfies the requirements of the
Interpleader Act as to diversity of citizenship, since the Act requires diversity only as between the claimants. P. 70.
3. Art. III, § 2 of the Federal Constitution, extending the judicial
power of tfie United States to controversies "between citizens of
different States," is broad enough to authorize the granting of
jurisdiction to the federal court in such a case of interpleader
P. 71.
4. The Eleventh Amendment is not infringed by joinder of a state
court judge and a state court. receiver as defendants in an interpleader proceeding in the federal court, in which proceeding the
State has no interest and neither the judge nor the receiver is
enjoined by the final decree. P, 74,

TREINIES v. SUNSHINE MIN. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

66

5. The authority of the federal court under the Interpleader Act to
enjoin parties to the proceeding from further prosecuting any
suit in any state or federal court in respect of the property involved,
is essential to the interpleader jurisdiction and is a valid exercise
of the judicial, power. Section 265 of the Judicial Code-an
earlier statute-forbidding the federal courts from staying proceedings in any state court, is inapplicable. P. 74.
6. A final decree of an' Idaho state court of general jurisdiction in a
suit to determine the ownership of personal property, awarding the
property to the plaintiff and holding that a probate court of
Washington which had awarded the property to another, under
whom the defendant claimed, was without jurisdiction of the subject matter, held, as to the issue of the jurisdiction of the state
courts, res judicata in a proceeding in the federal court interpleading
the same plaintiff and defendant in respect of the same property.
Pp. 75, 78.
99 F. 2d 651, altirmed.
CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 624, to review the affirmance of a
decree, 19 F. Supp. 587, adverse to the petitioner here, in
a proceeding under the Interpleader Act. In an earlier
phase of the controversy, certiorari to review a decree of
the Supreme Court of Idaho, 57 Idaho 10; 59 P. 2d 1087,
was denied by this Court, 299 U. S. 615.

Mr. Thomas D. Aitken for petitioner.
Mr. C. W. Halverson, with whom Mr. Nat U. Brown
was on the brief, for the Sunshine Mining Co., respondent.
Mr. Richard S. Munter, with whom Mr. Lester S.
Harrison was on the brief, for Katherine Mason et al.,
respondents.
MR. JusrcE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This writ of certiorari was granted to review the action
of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in affirming 1 a decree of the District Court of Idaho 2 upon a bill
199 F. 2d 651.

'19 F. Supp. 587.

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

of interpleader filed by the Sunshine Mining Company,
a Washington corporation, against Evelyn H. Treinies
and other citizens of the State of Washington, claimants
to certain stock of the Sunshine Mining Company and
the dividends therefrom, and Katherine Mason and T.
R. Mason, her husband, and other citizens of the State
of Idaho, adverse claimants to the same stock and
dividends.
The occasion for the interpleader was the existence of
inconsistent judgments as to the ownership of the Sunshine stock. The Superior Court of Spokane County,
Washington, in administering the estate of Amelia
Pelkes, adjudged that it was the property of John Pelkes,
assignor of petitioner, Evelyn H. Treinies; .and the District Court of Shoshone County, Idaho, adjudged that
the same property belonged to respondent, Katherine
Mason. They are the sole disputants. Other parties
may be disregarded. On account of conflict between the
judgments of the respective courts of sister states and the
assertion of the failure to give full faith and credit to
both in the interpleader action, we granted certiorari.
The alleged rights of the respective claimants arose
as -follows: Amelia Pelkes, the wife of John Pelkes, died
testate in Spokane, Washington, in 1922, leaving her
husband and one child, Katherine Mason, the offspring
of a, former marriage, as the beneficiaries of her will.
As a part of her community estate, there were 30,598
shares of Sunshine Mining stock. It was considered
valueless and was not inventoried or appraised. The
orderof distribution assigned a three-fourths undivided
interest in these shares to Pelkes and a one-fourth to
Mrs. Mason, an omnibus clause covering unknown property. The estate of Mrs. Pelkes was not distributed according to the order of distribution. Instead Pelkes and
his stepdaughter, Mrs. Mason, divided the inventoried

TREINIES v. SUNSHINE MIN. CO.
66

Opinion of the Court.

property between themselves in' accordance with their
wishes.
It is the contention of Pelkes and his assignee that this
partition of the property was in consideration of the release by Mrs. Mason to Pelkes of all of her interest in
the shares of the stock of the Sunshine Mining Company.
On the other hand, Mrs. Mason asserts that Pelkes was
to hold one-half of the amount owned, 15,299 shares, in
trust for her.
. In August, 1934, Mrs. Mason instituted a suit in the
District Court of Idaho for Shoshone County against
Pelkes, Evelyn H. Treinies, the Sunshine Mining Company, and others not important here, alleging that she
was the owner of 15,299 shares of the stock, that these
had been acquired by Miss Treinies from Pelkes with
knowledge of Mrs. Mason's rights, and praying that the
trust be established and the stock and dividends be
awarded to her, Mrs. Mason. It was finally decreed by
the District Court on August 18, 1936, after an appeal
to the Supreme Court ox Idaho,' that the stock and dividends belonged to Mrs. Mason. Certiorari to the Supreme Court of Idaho was refused by this Court.
Before the entry of the first decree of the District
Court of Idaho, Katherine Mason filed a petition in the
Superior Court of Spokane County, Washington, in the
probate proceedings involving Amelia Pelkes' will; to
remove the executor, John Pelkes, for failure to file his
report of distribution' and for dissipation of the Sunshine
stock. Pelkes by cross-petition and petition claimed the
stock. Thereupon Mrs. Mason applied to the Supreme
Court of Washington for a writ of prohibition against
further proceedings in the Superior Court on the ground
57 Idaho 10; 59 P. 2d 1087.
Pelkes v. Mason, 299 U. S. 615.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

of lack of jurisdiction in that court to determine the controversy over the stock. The writ was refused. On
May 31, 1935, a judgment was entered in the Superior
Court upholding in full the ownership of Pelkes.
. After the Supreme Court of Idaho had decided the
Idaho suit against Pelkes and Miss Treinies, they filed
in August, 1936, a suit in the Superior Court of Washington against Katherine Mason and others alleging that
they were the owners of the stock, further alleging that
the Idaho decree was invalid for lack of jurisdiction, and
asking that their title to the stock be quieted and the
Sunshine Mining Company, a party to this and the Idaho
suit, be compelled to recognize their ownership. It was
at this point in the litigation that the Sunshine Company
filed the bill of interpleader now under consideration.
Further proceedings in the suit to quiet title were enjoined by the District Court in this action.
Jurisdiction.-Before considering the questions raised
by the petition for certiorari, the jurisdiction of the federal court under the Act of January 20, 1936," must be
determined. As this issue affects the jurisdiction of this
Court, it is raised on its own motion.' By the Act of
January 20, 1936, the district courts have jurisdiction
of suits in equity, interpleading two or more adverse
claimants, instituted by complainants who have property
of the requisite value claimed by citizens of different
states. The suit may be maintained "although the titles
or claims of the conflicting claimants do not have a common origin, or are not identical, but are adverse to and
independent of one another." Process may run at 'least
throughout all the states.
As required by the Act this case was begun by the complainant, a corporation of the State of Washington, im549 Stat. 1096, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (26).
*Mansfield, C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 384.

TREINIES v. SUNSHINEI'MIN. CO.
66

Opinion of the Court.

pleading one group of claimants who are citizens of that
same state and another, the adverse group, who are
citizens of Idaho. Under the Interpleader Act, this identity of citizenship is permissible since diversity only
between claimants is required. The Interpleader Act is
based upon the clause of § 2, Article III, of the Constitution which extends the judical power of the United
States to controversies "between. citizens of different
States." Is this grant of jurisdiction broad enough to
cover the present situation?
The Judicial Code, § 24, provides for original jurisdiction of suits of a civil nature between citizens of different
states in precisely the language of the Constitution. The
present wording is practically the same as that of the Act
of March 3, 1875," "the circuit courts . . . shall have
original cognizance . . . of all suits . . . in which there
shall be a controversy between citizens of different
States," and that of the original Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789,8 "the suit is between a citizen of the State
where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State."
Without ruling as to possible limitations of the constitutional grant, it is held by this Court that the statutory
language of the respective judiciary acts forbids suits in
the federal courts unless all the parties on one side are
of citizenship diverse to those on the other side.' For
the determination of the validity of the Interpleader Act
we need not decide whether the words of the Constitution, "Controversies . . between Citizens of different
States," have a different meaning from that given by
judicial construction to similar words in the Judiciary
Act. Even though the constitutional language limits the
18 Stat. 470.
1 Stat. 78.
'Strawbridge v. Curtiss, 3 Cranch 267; Campv. Gress, 250 U. S.
308, 312.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

judicial power to controversies wholly between citizens of

different states, that requirement is satisfied here."°
This is for the reason that there is a real controversy
between the adverse claimants. They are brought into
the .court by the complainant stakeholder who simultaneously deposits the money or property, due and involved in the dispute, into the registry of the court. This
was done in this case. The Act provides that the "court
shall hear and determine the cause and shall discharge the
complainant from further liability." Such deposit and
discharge effectually demonstrates the applicant's disinterestedness as between the claimants and as to the
property in dispute," an essential in interpleaders. 2 The
complainant is a proper party for the determination of
the controversy between the adverse claimants, citizens
of different states. Their controversy could have been
settled by litigation between them in the federal courts.
Under similar circumstances as to parties, this Court
ruled that a removal of separable controversies to the
federal court was permissible even though a proper defendant was a citizen of the same state as the plaintiff."
We so held as to a stakeholder in Salem Co. v. Manufactu;'ers"Co.'4 There a suit was brought in a state court
against the Manufacturers' Company, a Delaware cor10Cf.

Chafee, Interpleader in the United States Courts, 41 Yale L. J.
1134, 1141, 1165; and Chafee, The Federal Interpleader Act of 1936,
45 Yale L. J. 963, 973.
"Diversity requirements for federal equity jurisdiction to avoid a
multiplicity of suits from diverse claimants with claims contested by
the debtor is not involved. Cf. Di Giovanni v. Camden Ins. Assn., 296
U. S. 64, 70.
"'Sandersv. Fertilizer Works, 292 U. S. 190, 200; Killian v. Ebbinghaus, 110 U. S. 568, 571.
' Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205, 213; cf Pullman Co. v. Jenkins,
305 U. S. 534, 538.
14264 U. S. 182, 189.

TREINIES v. SUNSHINE MIN. CO.
66

Opinion of the Court.

poration, and against a co-citizen of plaintiff, a Massachusetts corporation, the International Trust Company.
The Manufacturers' Company removed and plaintiff
sought a remand alleging its co-citizen was a necessary
party. The suit was to determine rights to a fund in the
co-citizen's hands "and to have the same paid to" the
plaintiff. The right of removal was upheld on the ground
that the only obligation of the stakeholder was to pay
over the money deposited with it. In Cramer v. Phoenix
Mut. Life Ins. Co.1" the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, considering that the claimants were the
real contestants, construed the Interpleader Act of May
8th, 1926,"G to give jurisdiction to the federal court although the interpleader and certain claimants were citizens of the same state. The language as to citizenship
is the same as that of the act here involved."
Application of Interpleader Act.-The inclusion as
defendants of the judge of the Superior Court of Washington, the administrator of John Pelkes, and a court
receiver of the property in dispute is said to violate the
-91 F. 2d 141, 146. See also Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Lott, 275 F.
365, 372 (S. D. Cal.); New York Life Ins. Co. v. Cross, 7 F'Supp. 130
(S. D. N. Y.); ef. Eagle, Star and British Dominions v. Tadlock, 14 F.
Supp. 933 (S. D. Cal.), reversed, 91 F. 2d 481 (C. C. A. 9) ; Ackerman
v. Tobin, 22 F. 2d 541 (C. C. A. 8).
44 Stat. 416.
1,We do not determine whether the ruling here is inconsistent with

the conclusion in those cases where jurisdiction was rested on diversity
of citizenship between the applicant and co-citizens who are claimants.
(Mallers v. Equitable Life Assur. Soc., 87 F. 2d 233 (C. C. A. 7), cert.
denied, 301 U. S. 685 (New York corporation impleads Illinois claimants); Security Trust & Savings Bank v. Walsh, 91 F. 2d 481 (C. C. A.
9) (English corporation impleads California claimants); Penn Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Meguire, 13 F. Supp. 967, 971 (W. D. Ky.) (Pennsylvania corporation impleads Kentucky claimants); Turman Oil Co. v.
Lathrop, 8 F. Supp 870, 872 (N. D. Okla.) (Delaware corporation
impleads Oklahoma claimants).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

rule against a citizen suing a state embodied in the
18
Eleventh Amendment.
Without analyzing all the pleadings, a short answer
against the petitioner's contention is the fact that neither
the receiver nor the judge is enjoined by the final decree.
Pelkes' administrator and Miss Treinies are enjoined
from further prosecution of the Washington action to
quiet title. They are the parties whose individual rights
to the stock are settled in this action. The State of Washington has no interest and no infringement of the
Eleventh Amendment occurs.
Neither are the provisions of § 265 of the Judicial Code
applicable. That section forbids a United States court
from staying proceedings in any state court. The Interpleader Act, passed subsequently, however, authorizes the
enjoining of parties to the interpleader from further prosecuting any suit in any state or United States court on
account of the property involved. Such authority is
essential to the protection of the interpleader jurisdiction
and is a valid exercise of the judicial power. Section 265
is a mere limitation upon the general equity powers of
the United States courts and may be varied by Congress
to meet the requirements of federal litigation."
Res Judicata of the Idaho Decree.-On the merits,
petitioner's objection to the decree below is that it fails
to consider and give effect to the Washington judgment
of May 31, 1935, awarding the property in question to
Pelkes, petitioner's assignor. It is petitioner's claim that
the Washington judgment must be considered as effective
in this litigation because the question of the jurisdiction
of the Washington court was actually litigated before
Worcester County Trust Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S. 292, 296, is relied
upon.
"Smith v. Apple; 264 U. S. 274, 278; Dugas v. American Surety Co.,

300-U. S. 414, 428.

TREINIES v. SUNSHINE MIN. CO.
* 66

Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Court of Washington and determined favorably to petitioner by the refusal to grant a writ of prohibition against the exercise of jurisdiction by the Washington Superior Court in probate. This failure to give
effect to the judgment is said to infringe the full faith
and credit clause of the Constitution. The decree of
the Court of Appeals is based upon the doctrine of res
judicata. The applicability of that doctrine arises from
a determination of pertinent matters by the Supreme
Court of Idaho. Accordingly we turn to a discussion of
whether or not the issues tendered below by petitioner
were foreclosed by the decision of the Supreme Court of
Idaho of July 23, 1936.
The issues tendered by petitioner in the trial court in
this interpleader proceeding were (1) the invalidity of
the Idaho decree, and (2) the conclusiveness of the Washington decree of May 31, 1935, awarding the property to
Pelkes. Both of these issues rest on petitioner's contention that complete jurisdiction of the probate of Mrs.
Pelkes' estate was in the Superior Court of Washington,
that the stock was at all times a part of that estate, and
that therefore that court's jurisdiction over the disposition of the stock was exclusive of all other courts.
The Idaho decree was pleaded in this proceeding as
res judicata of the controversy between petitioner and
respondent. The proceedings in Idaho showed a cause of
action based on an alleged oral agreement of Pelkes, made
in Idaho at the time of distribution of Mrs. Pelkes' estate,
to hold the Sunshine Mining Company stock in trust for
the joint benefit of himself and Mrs. Mason. All parties,
including this petitioner, were before the court and a
decree was entered sustaining the trust and awarding the
stock and dividends, as claimed, to respondent, Mrs. Mason, with directions to the Mining Company to recognize
the assignment of the certificates and adjudging a re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

covery for prior dividends against Pelkes and petitioner.
2 °
The Idaho court was a court of general jurisdiction.
The Court of Appeals held that the Idaho suit settled
that the stock was distributed in 1923 and that therefore
the Idaho court had jurisdiction to determine rights under
the alleged oral trust. It was further of the view that
the Idaho court's invalidation of the Washington judgment and its decree upholding. Mrs. Mason's claim, to the
disputed property were res juilicata in this action. Petitioner's only ground for objection to the conclusionthat
the Idaho decree is res judicata rests on the argument
that by such ruling below the "judgment of the courts
of the State of Washington affecting the same subject
matter and parties" is ignored.
In the'Idaho proceeding the Washington judgment
awarding the stock and dividends to Pelkes was pleaded
in bar to Mrs. Mason's Suit to recover the stock. The
effectiveness of the Washington judgment as a bar depended upon whether the court which rendered it had
jurisdiction, after an order of distribution, to deal with
settlements of distributees with respect' to the assets of
an estate. On consideration it was determined in the
Idaho proceeding that the Washington court did not have
this jurisdiction and that the stock Of the Mining Company became the property of Mrs. Mason. In declining
to give effect to the Washington decree for lack of jurisdiction over the subject matter, the Idaho court determined also the basic question raised by petitioner in the
interpleader action. The contention of petitioner in the
interpleader proceedings that the Idaho court did not
have jurisdiction of the stock controversy because that
controversy was in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Washington probate court must fall, because of the Idaho decision that the Washington probate court did not have
"Constitution of Idaho, Art. 5, § 20; Idaho Code, 1932, § i-705.

TREINIES v. SUNSHINE MIN. CO.
66

Opinion of the Court.

exclusive jurisdiction. This is true even though the
question of tht Washington jurisdiction had been actually
litigated and decided in favor of Pelkes in the Washington proceedings. If decided erroneously in the Idaho
proceedings, the right to review that error was in those
(the Idaho) proceedings. While petitioner sought review from the decree of the Supreme Court of Idaho by
petition for certiorari to this Court, which was denied,
no review was sought from the final decree of the Idaho
District Court of August 18, 1936, on new findings of
fact and conclusions of law on remittitur from the Supreme Court of Idaho.2 1
"It is unnecessary to consider whether the Idaho determination as
to the jurisdiction of the Washington court was properly made. As
the procedure by which a state court examines into the question of the

jurisdiction of the court of a sister state is a matter within the control
of the respective states (Adam v. Saenger, 303 U. S. 59, 63), it need
only be added that such procedure is subject to question only on direct
appeal.
It was stipulated by all parties to the Idaho cause that the Idaho
courts might take judicial notice of the statutes and decisions of Washington. Some constitutional and statutory provisions relating to the
jurisdiction of the Superior Court were pleaded and admitted. --It has
long been the rule in Idaho that its courts do not take judicial notice of
the laws of another state and that without allegation and evidence it
will be assumed the laws are the same as those of Idaho. (Maloney
v. Winston Bros. Co., 18 Idaho 740, 757, 762; 111 P. 1080, 1086;
Douglas v. Douglas,. 22 Idaho.336, 343; 125 P. 796; Mechanics &
Metals Nat. Bank v. Pingree, 40 Idaho 118, 129; 232 P. 5; State v.
Martinez, 43 Idaho 180, 192; 59 P. 2d 1087; Kleinschmidt v. Scribner,
54 Idaho 185, 189; 30 P. 2d 362). While none of these cases invulved
a stipulation, the decision of the Supreme Court of Id,9ho (57 Idaho
10; 59 P. 2d 1087) declares the law of that jurisdiction. It follows
from the Idaho court's refusal to look into the statutes of Washington
that the jurisdiction of the Washington court was piresumed to be governed by Idaho law. Under proper proof, the Idaho court would have
been compelled to examine the jurisdiction of the Washington court
under Washington law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the, Court.

308 U. S.

The Court of Appeals correctly determined that the
issue of jurisdiction vel non of the Washington court
could not be relitigated in this interpleader. As the
Idaho District Court was a court of general jurisdiction,
its conclusions are unassailable collaterally except for
fraud or lack of jurisdiction. The holding by the Idaho
court of no jurisdiction in Washington necessarily determined the question raised here as to the Idaho jurisdiction against Miss Treinies' contention. She is bound
by that judgment.
The power of the Idaho court to examine into the
jurisdiction of the Washington court is beyond question.22
Even where the decision against the validity of the
original judgment is erroneous, it is a valid exercise of
judicial power by the second court.2"
One trial of- an issue is enough.24 "The principles of
res judicata apply to questions of jurisdiction as well as
to other issues," 25 as well to jurisdiction of the subject
matter as of the parties.26
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

toQk no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
"Old Wayne Life Assn. v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8, 15; Thompson
v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, 468; Adam v. Saenger, 303 U. S. 59, 62.
Chicago Life Ins. Co. v. Cherry, 244 U. S. 25, 30; Stoll v. Gottlieb,
305 U. S. 165, 172; Roche v. McDonald, 275 U. S. 449, 454.
"Baldwin v. Traveling Men's Assn., 283 U. S. 522, 525.
S. 156, 166.
'American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 -U.
'Stoll v. Gottlieb, supra, note 23, 172.
No decision or statute relative to the reexamination of the decree or
judgment of an Idaho court on a contested issue of jurisdiction has
been found or called to our attention. It is concluded that the rule
here expressed states too the law of Idaho.

