PEARSON v. McGRAW.
295

.313

Syllabus.

In view of these considerations we do not have occasion
to determine the legitimacy of the "one-man" corporation
as a bulwark against the claims of creditors."8
Accordingly the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
PEARSON, STATE TREASURER OF THE STATE
DF OREGON, v. McGRAW ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.
No. 69. Argued November 15, 16, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
A resident of Oregon, owning bonds in Illinois, held for him by a
trust company acting as custodian and financial agent, and having also a checking account with the company, directed the company to raise a specified sum of money by sale of bonds in its
hands and by use of his cash balance, and to apply that sum to
the purchase of an equal amount in Federal Reserve notes. When
this had been done, and the trust company had held the notes for
a few days, he executed in Oregon an instrument by which, in
contemplation of death, he made a transfer of the notes to the
trust company, as trustee for designated beneficiaries, reserving to
himself no interest and no power of revocation. Thereafter, the
trust complny held the notes under the trust agreement for several
days, and then used them from time to time to purchase bonds
for the account of the trust. Its original engagement as custodian
and agent antedated the settlor's domicile in Oregon, and none
On this 'point the District Court said: "An examination of the
facts disclosed here shows the history of a deliberate and carefully
planned attempt on the part of Scott Litton and Dixie Splint Coal
Company to avoid the payment of a just debt. I speak of Litton and
Dixie Splint Coal Company because they are in reality the same. In
all the experience of the law, there has never been a more prolific
breeder of fraud than the one-man corporation. It is a favorite device for the escape of personal liability. This case illustrates Ianother
frequent use of this fiction of corporate entity, whereby the owner of
the corporation, through his complete control over it, undertakes to
gather to himself all of its assets to the exclusion of its creditors."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

.308 U. S.

of the securities handled by the company were ever physically
present in that State. Held, that the sale of the bonds, the purchase of the notes, and their transfer to the trustee constituted
an integrated and indivisible transaction effecting a transfer of
intangibles in contemplation of death; and that, whatever the
nature of the Federal Reserve notes-whether tangible or intangible property-a tax upon this transfer by the State of Oregon
would not contravene the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S.357. P. 317.
161 Ore. 1; 86 P. 2d 424; 87 P. 2d 766, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 531, to review a judgment which

reversed in part an order of the Circuit Court of Oregon
in probate, determining an inheritance tax.
Messrs. Willis S. Moore, Assistant Attorney General of
Oregon, and Dean H. Dickinson, with whom Mr. I. H.
Van Winkle, Attorney General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Fletcher Rockwood, with whom Mr. Charles E.
McCulloch was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Hayes, respondents' decedent, died testate in 1936 and
was at the time of his death a resident of and domiciled
in Oregon. In earlier years when he had resided in the
middle west he placed in possession of an Illinois trust
company various stocks, bonds and other intangibles,
which trust company acted as his agent in collecting
principal and income on those securities and in the investment of his funds. ' When decedent established a domicile
in Oregon in 1933, he continued that arrangement with
the Illinois trust company, with the result that those
securities were always physically present in Illinois, never
in Oregon. August 8, 1935, about six months before
decedent's death, he directed the Illinois trust company
to sell and liquidate sufficient of his bonds held under that

PEARSON v. McGRAW.
313

Opinion of the Court.

agency arrangement in Illinois to procure a sum which,
together with cash balances in his checking account with
the trust company, would equal $450,000 and to purchase
therewith, as his agent, federal reserve notes of the face
amount of $450,000. Between August 8, 1935 and August
12, 1935, the Illinois trust company complied with decedent's directions' and prior to August 15, 1935, it purchased $450,000 of federal reserve notes and held them in
Illinois as agent for decedent for a few days.
On August 15, 1935, decedent executed in Oregon a
trust agreement under which the Illinois trust company
was designated as trustee and by which decedent transferred to it as trustee the federal reserve notes. That
trust was for the benefit of certain designated relatives
and was irrevocable. Under it decedent retained no interest or power whatsoever. The trust company held
those federal reserve notes under the trust agreement
for about five days. Then from time to time after August
19, 1935, the Illinois trust company used the federal reserve notes, pursuant to the terms of the trust agreement,
to purchase bonds and other personal property for the
account of the trust.2
'On the sale of bonds in the open market the trust company
realized for decedent's account $176,062.01. On August 12, 1935, decedent borrowed from the trust company on a demand note $183,937.99. On that date decedent had a balance in his checking account
with the trust company in excess of $90,000. With the funds so obtained the trust company purchased the $450,000 of federal reserve
notes mentioned. Between August 12, 1935, and August 29, 1935, the
trust company, on directions of decedent, sold in the open market
additional bondg held by it in the agency account and as proceeds of
those sales were received by it, it paid off the demand note. That
note was entirely paid on August 29, 1935.
'None of the property thus acquired by the trustee was ever owned
by decedent; the trustee did not purchase or acquire any of the bonds
or other assets which at any time constituted a part of the property
held by the trustee as agent for decedent under the earlier arrangement.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
308 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Admittedly, Oregon had jurisdiction to tax but for the
alleged prohibition in the Fourteenth Amendment, for the
statute in question imposed a tax on intangibles as well
as tangibles which passed by deed or gift made in contemplation of the death of the grantor.' But the Supreme Court of Oregon held that that constitutional
prohibition was present since neither the securities or
cash used to purchase the federal reserve notes nor the
notes themselves were ever in Oregon but always in
Illinois. Though admitting that intangibles would have
been taxable by Oregon under such circumstances, the
court in reliance on Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1,
concluded that the federal reserve notes were tangibles.
And since decedent had retained them in Illinois for a
few days prior to August 15, 1935, without any intention
of bringing them to Oregon, they had acquired a so-called
business situs in Illinois which constitutionally prevented
Oregon from exacting a tax for their transfer. And this
conclusion was reached though admittedly the transfer
of the notes under the agreement of August 15, 1935, was
made in contemplation of death. We granted certiorari
"'All property within the jurisdiction of the state, and any interest
therein, whether belonging to the inhabitants of this state or not, and
whether tangible or intangible, which shall pass or vest .

.

. by deed,

.grant, bargain, sale or gift, or as an advancement or division of his or
her estate made in contemplation of the death of the grantor, . . . to
any person or persons, . . . in trust or otherwise, . . . shall be and

is subject to tax at the rate hereinafter specified in section 10-603, to
be paid to the treasurer of the state for the use of the state;

. .',

(ยง 10-601, 0. C. 1930.)
'86 P. 2d 424, 87 P. 2d 766. It seems clear that the Oregon Supreme Court reached this result by reliance on the Fourteenth Amendment and the decisions of this Court thereunder. We do not have,
therefore, a case where the state court was merely construing its
statute nor a case where it is not clear whether or not it was doing
more than that. Cf. State Tax Commission v. Van Cott, 306 U. S.
511.

PEARSON v. McGRAW.
313

Opinion of the Court.

because of the importance of the constitutional question
involved and of an alleged probable conflict with the principles underlying such decisions as Curry v. McCanless,
307 U. S.357.
We disagree with the conclusion of the Supreme Court
of Oregon. Oregon having jurisdiction to tax by reason of
the statute' was not deprived of it by the Federal
Constitution.
On the facts of this case we believe that the various
steps in the series must be considered as constituting but
one integrated and indivisible transaction-a transfer by
decedent of intangibles in contemplation of death. And
we reach this result though each step in- the series was
real and though none was camouflaged or concealed. For
basically the sale of intangibles, the acquisition of federal
reserve notes, and their transfer under the agreement of
August 15, 1935, were interdependent. Cf. Groman v.
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 302 U. S. 82; Helvering v. Bashford, 302 U. S. 454, 458. From decedent's
point of view, completion of the series of steps was
necessary for consummation of his program to utilize
$450,000 of his estate to provide for certain designated
members of his family.' Any step short of the final
transfer would not have done it. The mere sale of the
intangibles and the acquisition of' the federal reserve
notes had no functional or business significance apart
from the August 15, 1935 transfer. That is emphasized
here because they created no legal reIatioxsand gave rise
to no vested rights interfering with decedent's continuing
power of dislosition. Taken as isolated transactions,
'This is in accord with the treatment by the Supreme Court of
Oregon of "Dr. Hayes' plan," a "plan" which it felt compelled to
divide into separate steps by reason of the principles of decisions of
this Court dealing with business situs under the Fourteenth Amendment. Cf. Pattersonv. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

they have meaning and significance only in relation to the
third step, a conclusion made especially evident by the
close sequence of events. Hence, it is no answer to say
that because the first two steps were not irrevocable but
could be recalled, the third step was not a necessary one in
the series. For that is as immaterial as is the revocability
of any donor's plan to make a gift in contemplation of
death at any moment prior to its consummation. Admittedly decedent had such a purpose on the transfer of the
notes. To hold that such purpose was not present on
the sale of the intangibles would be to isolate one part
of the total transaction and to give it significance and
meaning utterly inconsistent with the fact that the intangibles were sold for the purpose of acquiring the notes
which, in turn, were to be placed under an irrevocable
trust. Therefore we need not consider the nature of federal reserve notes, for in that posture of the case their
taxability as such nd in isolation from the whole
transaction is not in issue.
Hence to hold that there is a constitutional barrier
to the tax sought to be imposed would be to make a fetish
of form. It would make the principles of the decisions
of this Court on the constitutional power to tax devoid
of any reason or function apart from a ritual of tax avoidance. Cf. Minnesota Tea Co. v. Helvering, 302 U. S. 609;
Shotwell v. Moore, 129 U. S. 590. Questions of due
process are not to be treated "narrowly or pedantically,,
in slavery to forms or phrases." Burnet v. Wells, 289
U. S. 670, 677-78.
Accordingly, the transfer was taxable on the authority
of Curry v. McCanless, supra, and related cases. For
constitutionally the property was "within the jurisdiction
of the state" of Oregon since that jurisdiction is dependent
not on the physical location of the property in the state
but on control over the owner.

PEARSON v. McGRAW.
313

STONE,

J., concurring.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon is reversed and-the cause is remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of the opinion that the
judgment below should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE:

I concur in the judgment of reversal on the groun
that nothing in the Constitution prevents taxation by
Oregon of a gift by its citizc-i of federal reserve notes
located elsewhere.
While I do not question that in the circumstances of
this case a state could, if so advised, constitutionally tax
its citizen for action taken for no other purpose than the
evasion of its taxing statutes, no such question is, I think,
presented by the record. Discussion of it seems at most
to be academic and not to relieve us of the duty of deciding the only federal question which could by any possibility be said to be raised by the record, namely, whether
the Constitution precludes taxation of the gift of the
banknotes merely because of the physical fact that they
are located without the state.
In arriving at the conclusion tha the gift of federal reserve notes located outside the state was not taxable, the
Supreme Court of Oregon necessarily construed the Oregon statute, which imposes a tax on gifts of "all property
within the jurisdiction of the state . . . whether tangible
or intangible." The court has said that the banknotes
were not within the jurisdiction of the state because their
situs was elsewhere, and that the acts of decedent in
avoiding the tax by the acquisition of property having an
extra-territorial situs were not reached for taxation by
state law. If the court did anything more than rule

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
STONE, J., concurring.

308 U. S.

that the statute, by its own terms, .did not extend to the
taxation of the gift of the notes because they were located
outside the state, it held that the Fourteenth Amendment because of that physical fact withholds, from the
state, jurisdiction over the property which the taxing
statute asserts.
Petitioner asks us to determine whether that holding is
correct. He is entitled to have an answer. We do not
rightly avoid giving the answer by saying that, by some
statute other than that under review, the state could constitutionally tax its citizen for his action in avoiding the
tax, by making the gift in a form of property which is
by hypothesis beyond the taxing power. If the state
has by its statute undertaken to lay a tax on gifts of
banknotes outside the state without more-and we are
without jurisdiction if it has not-no p rpose is served
by saying to the state that it could have reached the same
result by another route, which, under its laws, does not
appear to be open to it.
As I am of opinion that there is nothing in the Constitution to compel a state to treat federal reserve notes
for tax purposes as chattels were treated in Frick v.
Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, and as no reason has been
advanced, even in Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, 18,
for a different view, cf. Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S.
586, 591, the judgment should, I think, be reversed, upon
that ground rather than upon a theory of permissible
legislation, of which apparently Oregon's tax laws do not
avail.
MR. JusTIcE FRANKFURTER

agrees with my views as to

Oregon's power to tax these federal reserve notes, but is
of opinion that the record sustains the ground taken in
the Court's opinion.

