NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
147

Syllabus.

We are not to be taken as holding that commercial

soliciting and canvassing may not be subjected to such
regulation as the ordinance requires. Nor do we hold
that the town may not fix reasonable hours when can-

vassing may be done by persons having such objects a
the petitioner. Doubtless there are other features of
such activities which may be regulated in the public in-'
terest without prior licensing or other invasion of constitutibnal liberty.

We do hold, however, that the ordi-

nance in question, as applied to the petitioner's conduct,
is void, and she cannot be punished for acting without a

permit.
The judgment in each case is reversed and the causes
are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent

with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the judgment in each case should be affirmed.

NEIRBO CO. ET AL. V. BETHLEHEM SHIPBUILDING CORP., LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 38.

Argued October 17, 18, 1939-Decided November 22, 1939.

1. Section 51 of the Judicial Code, as amended, which provides that
"no civil suit shall be brought in any district court against
any person by any original process or proceeding in any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is between
citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant,"
merely accords to the defendant a personal privilege of objecting
to the venue of suits brought against him in districts wherein under
the section he may not be compelled to answer. P. 168.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

308 U. S.

2. The privilege accorded.by § 51 may be lost by failure to assert it
seasonably, by formal submission in a cause, or by submission
through conduct. P. 168.
3. Such surrender of the privilege may be regarded negatively as a
waiver or positively as a consent to be sued. P. 168.
4. A designation by a foreign corporation, in conformity with a valid
statute of a State and as a condition of doing business within it,
of an agent upon whom service of process may be made, held an
effective consent to be sued in the federal courts of that State.

Pp. 170, 174.
5. Prior to the amendment of 1887, the provision was that "no civil
suit shall be brought before either of said courts against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district
than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be
found . . ." Held, the omission by that amendment of the
words "in which he shall be found" was not intended to affect
the implications of a consent to be sued and was not directed
toward any change in the status of a corporate litigant. Ex parte
Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, and Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton,
146 U. S. 202, reconciled. P. 171.
6. A State constitutionally may require a foreign corporation, as a
condition of doing a local business, to designate an agent upon
whom service of process may be made. P. 175.
7. The finding in this case that the foreign corporation, by its designation under the state law of an agent for the service of process,
had consented to be sued in the courts of the State, federal as well
as state, is not a subjection of federal procedure to the requireinents of state law, but a recognition that state legislation and
consent of parties may bring about a state of facts which will
authorize the federal courts to take cognizance of a case. P. 175.
103 F. 2d 765, reversed..

CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 619, to review the affirmance of
an order of the district court quashing service of process
on the respondent corporation and dismissing as to it the
petitioners' bill.
Messrs. Robert P. Weil and Laurence Arnold Tanzer
for petitioners.
Mr: William D. Whitney for respondent.

NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
Opinion of the Court.

165

MR. JUSTIE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case is here to review the affirmance by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit of an order of the
District Court for the Southern District of New York
setting aside service of process upon Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, Ltd. (hereafter called Bethlehem)
and dismissing as to it petitioners' bill, 103 F. 2d 765.
The suit was based on diversity of citizenship and was not
brought "in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant." (§ 51 of the Judicial Code,
Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, as corrected by Act
of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, 28 U. S. C. § 112.1)
We took the case, 307 U. S. 619, because of the uncertainties in application of-§ 51, emphasized by conflict between the views below and those of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Oklahoma Packing
Co. v. Oklahoma Gas & Elec. Co., 100 F. 2d,770. The sole
question in the case is whether § 51 is satisfied by the
designation by a foreign corporation of an agent for
service of process, in conformity with the law of a state
in which suit is brought against it in one of the federal
courts for that state.
The jurisdiction of the federal courts-their power to
adjudicate-is a grant of authority to them by Congress
and thus beyond the scope of litigants to confer. But
'Section 112 reads as follows: "Except as provided in sections 113
to 117 of this title, no person shall be arrested in one district for trial
in another in any civil action before a district court; and, except as
provided in sections 113 to 118 of this title, no civil suit shall be
brought in any district court against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that
the action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought
only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the
defendant."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the locality of a law suit-the place where judicial authority may be exercised-though defined by legislation
relates to the convenience of litigants and as such is subject tp their disposition. This basic difference between
the court's power and the litigant's convenience is historic in the federal courts. After a period of confusing
deviation it was firmly reestablished in General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261, and Lee
v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., ibid. 653, over-ruling Ex
parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, and qualifying In re Moore,
209 U. S. 490. All the parties may be non-residents of
the district where suit is brought. Lee v. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co., supra. Section 51 "merely accords to the
defendant a personal privilege respecting the venue, or
place of suit, which he may assert, or may waive, at his
election." Commercial Ins. Co. v. Stone Co., 278 U. S

177, 179.

Being a privilege, it may be lost. It may be lost by
failure to assert it seasonably, by formal submission in a
cause, or by submission through conduct. Commercial
Ins. Co. v. Stone Co., supra. Whether such surrender
of a personal immunity be conceived negatively as a
waiver or positively as a consent to be sued, is merely an
expression of literary preference. The essence of the
matter is that courts affix to conduct consequences as to
place of suit consistent with the policy behind § 51, which
is "to save defendants from inconveniences to which they
might be subjected if they could be compelled to answer
in any district, or wherever found." General Investment
Co. v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., supra, at 275.
When the litigants are natural persons the conceptions
underlying venue present relatively few problems in application. But in the case of corporate litigants these
procedural problems are enmeshed in the wider intricacies
touching the status of a corporation in our law. The

NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
165

Opinion of the Court.

corporate device is one form of associated enterprise, and
what the law in effect has done is to enforce rights and
duties appropriate for collective activity. Cf. United
Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344;
Puerto Rico v. Russell & Co., 288 U. S. 476. It
has done so largely by assimilating corporations to natural persons. The long, tortuous evolution of the methods whereby foreign corporations gained access to courts
or could be brought there, is the history of judicial groping for a reconciliation between the practical position
achieved by the corporation in society and a natural
desire to confine the powers of these artificial creations.'
It took half a century of litigation in this Court finally
to confer on a corporation, through the use of a fiction,'
citizenship in the chartering state for jurisdictional purposes. Compare Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How.
404 with Hope Ins. Co. v. Boardman, 5 Cranch 57.
Throughout, the mode of thought was metaphorical.
The classic doctrine was that a corporation "must dwell
in the place of its creation, and cannot migrate to another sovereignty." Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet.
519, 588. Logically applied, this theory of non-migration prevented suit in a non-chartering state, for the corporation could not-be there. 4 . And such was the practice
of the circuit courts 5 until the opinion of Chief Justice
Waite in Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, displaced
metaphor with common sense. The essential difference
See Henderson, "The Position of Foreign Corporations in American Constitutional Law," passim, and especially the illuminating analysis, pp. 163-194.
'See Gray, "The Nature and Sources of the Law," 184, and Henderson, op. cit. supra, note 2, pp. 50-76.
'See St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350, 355.
"We are aware that the practice in the circuit courts generally has
been to decline jurisdiction in this class of suits." 96 U. S. 369, 378.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

between the practice which Mr. Justice Nelson 6 initiated
at circuit and the decision in Schollenberger's case was
not a matter of technical legal construction, but a way of
looking at corporations. Men's minds had become habituated to corporate activities which crossed state lines.
The fact that corporations did do business outside their
originating bounds made. intolerable their immunity
from suit in the states of their activities. And so they
were required by legislatures to designate agents for service of process in return for the privilege of doing local
business. That service upon such an agent, in conformity with a valid state statute,. constituted consent to be
sued in the federal court and thereby supplanted the
immunity as to venue, was the rationale of Schollenberger's case.
To be sure, that case arose under the Judiciary Act of
1875, 18 Stat. 470, the language of which differed from
the Act of 1887, now, § 51 of the Judicial Code. The
earlier provision was as follows: "And no civil suit shall
be brought before either of said courts against any person
by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which
he shall be found . . ." The Act of 1887 omitted
the words "in which he shall be found." But, of course,
the Phoenix and the Clinton Insurance Company in
Ex parte Schollenberger, supra, were not geographically
"found" in Pennsylvania, and Chief Justice Waite so
recognized. They were "found" in the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania only in a metaphorical sense, because
they had consented to be sued there by complying with.
the Pennsylvania law for designating an agent to accept
service. Not less than three times does the opinion point
'Day v. Newark India-Rubber Mfg. Co., 1 Blatch. 628; Fed. Cas.
No. 3,685; Pomeroy v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 4 Blatch. 120;
Fed. Cas. No. 11,261. Both these cases were decided by Mr. Justice
Nelson, on circuit.

i.EiRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
165

Opinion of the Court.

out that the corporation gave "consent" to be sued; and
because of this consent the Chief Justice added that the
corporation was "found" there. But the crux of tLe
decision is its reliance upon two earlier cases, Railroad
Company v. Harris,12 Wall. 65 and Lafayette Ins. Co. v.
French, 18 How. 404, recognizing that "consent" may
give "venue." The Phoenix and the Clinton Insurance
Company consented not to be "found" but to be sued.
Since the corporation had consented to be sued in the
courts of the state, this Court held that the consent extended to the federal courts sitting in that state. As to
diversity cases, Congress has given the federal courts
"cognizance, concurrent with. the courts of the several
States." The consent, therefore, extends to any court
sitting in the state which applies the laws of the state.!
The notion that the 1887 amendment, by eliminating
the right to sue a defendant in the district "in which
he shall be found," was meant to affect the implications
of a consent to be sued-implications which were the
basis of the Schollenberger decision--derives from a misapplication of the purpose of Congress to contract diversity jurisdiction, based upon a misunderstanding of the
legislative history of the 1887 amendment.' The deletion
of "in which he shall be found" was not directed toward
any change in the status of a corporate litigant. The
restriction was designed to shut the door against service of
process upon a natural person in any place where he
might be caught. It confined suability, except with the
'"While the Circuit Court may not be technically a court of the
Commonwealth, it is a court within it; and that, as we think, is all the
legislature intended to provide for." 96 U. S. 369, 377. See Madisonville Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196 U. o. 239, 255-56. Cf. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Chatters, 279 U. S. 320, 329.
' A cognate misconception as'to the purpose of the Act of 1887-88
in contracting the jurisdiction of the circuit courts underlay the decision in Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, overruled in Lee v. Chesapeake
& Ohio Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 653, 659.

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U.S.

defendant's consent, to the district of his physical habitation. Insofar as the 1887 legislation sheds any light upon
the status of a corporate litigant in diversity suits, its
significance lies outside the omission of the "he shall be
found" clause. The form in which that Act passed the
,House of Representatives contained a provision, wholly
distinct from the general venue section, restricting the
growing volume of litigation drawn to the federal courts
by the fiction of corporate citizenship.9 It prohibited
resort to the federal courts by foreign corporations authorized to do a local business. The Senate rejected,
as it had done upon three previous occasions, this House
proposal." But the bill, as it left the House, also contained the venue provision, with its omission of the
"found" clause. It would be strange indeed if the House
in § 1 had dealt with the "venue" of suits against corporate litigants who, like those involved in the Schollenberger case, by § 3 of the same bill were completely
barred from the federal courts. It would be stranger
still if, after passing a drastic measure curtailing resort
by foreign corporations to the federal courts, the House
had only succeeded in giving discriminatory freedom to
foreign corporations-discriminatory in that, by nullifying the significance of consent through obedience to state
law to be sued in the federal courts, it would allow a
'The Culberson Bill, which passed the House in 1887, was H. R.
2441, 49th Cong., 1st Sess. It provided in its original form that the
lower federal courts shouldnot take "cognizance of any suit" between
"a corporation created or organized by or under the laws of any State

and a citizen of any State in wl~ich such corporation at the time the
cause of action accrued may have been carrying on any business authorized by the law creating it ...
" There were likewise provisions

forbidding removad of such suits to the lower federal courts. See 18
Sess.
Cong. Rec. 613; H. Rep. No. 1078, 49th Cong., 1st
1010

4909.

Cong. Rev. 1304-1305; 14. Cong. Rec. 1270; 15 Cong. Rec.

NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
165

173

Opinion of the Court.

foreign corporate defendant freedom either to remain in
the state courts or to remove to a federal court.
And so, after the Act of 1887 and despite its elimination
of "in which he shall be found" from the Act of 1875,
lower federal courts continued to apply the doctrine of
Schollenberger's case by considering the designation -of
an agent for service of process an effective consent to be
sued in the federal courts.1 This practice in the lbwer
federal courts continued until 1892, when Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S. 202, was decided. But that
case involved an entirely different situation. The Court
was there concerned with a Texas statute which not
merely regulated procedure for suit but sought to- deny
foreign corporations access to the federal courts. This
Court held the act unconstitutional, as the Texas court
had in fact already done. 2 Inasmuch as the Texas act
was found to be void, it "could give no validity or- effeet
to any agreement or action of the corporation in obedience to its provisions." ' To be sure, the Court went on
to interpret the agreement "if valid" " and to su'ggest
that had it been valid the agreement might have subjected the corporation to jurisdiction "so long as the
Judiciary Acts of the United States allowed it to be sued
in the district in which it was 'found.' "1 Such, as we
1

Riddle v. New York, L. E. & W. R. Co., 39 F. 290 (C. C., W. D.
Pa., 1889); Consolidated Store-Service Co. v..Lamson Consol. StoreService Co., 41 F. 833 (C. C. Mass., 1890) approvingly cited in Haight
& Freese Co. v. Weiss, 156 F. 328 (C. C. A. 1st, 1907).
Texas Land & Mortgage Co. v. Worsham, 76 Tex. 556.
u 146 U. S. at 207.
146 U. S. at 207.
15146 U. S. at 207. The Denton case was based on Shaw v. Quincy
Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444, in which there was no consent derivable
from the designation- of an agent for service. Both opinions were
written by Mr. Justice Gray, who later accurately delimited the scope
of the holdings in both the Shaw and the Denton cases. In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221, 229. The decisive difference be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

have seen, was not the true basis of the decision in
Schollenberger's case. As decisions, the two cases are
wholly consistent. But, disregarding the situation before the Court in the Denton case-the absence of any
valid consent to be sued because of the invalidity of the
statute by which the alleged "consent" was obtainedseveral of the lower courts have taken language from
the Denton opinion and have made it govern situations
where valid consent did exist because given in conformity
with the provisions of a valid statute."6 Other courts
have adhered to the practice established by Schollenberger's case." We deem this practice sound, and it controls
the present case.
In conformity with what is now §210 of the General
Corporation Law of New York, 8 Bethlehem designated
tween the present case and In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., is that in
the latter case the designation under state law which is the basis of
consent had in fact not been made. But the requirement of "residence" in the Act of 1887 is as much satisfied by a consent to be sued
as was the requirement "to be found" in the 1875 Act satisfied by
such a consent.
'Platt v. Massachusetts Real Estate Co., 103 F. 705 (C.C. Mass.,
1900); Hagstoz v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 179 F. 569 (C. C. E. D. Pa.,
1910); Beech-Nut Packing Co. v. P. Lorillard Co., 287 F. 271 (S. D.
N. Y., 1921); Jones v. Consol. Wagon Co., 31 F. 2d 383, 384 (D. Idaho,
1929); Keroot & Co. v. United Drug Co., 38 F. 2d 671 (D. Del.,
1930); Standard Stoker Co. v. Lower, 46 F. 2d 678 (D. Md., 1931);
McLean v. Mississippi, 96 F. 2d 741 (C. C. A. 5th, 1938); Gray v.
Reliance Ins. Co., 24 F. Supp. 144 (W. D. La., 1938); Hamilton Watch
1939); ToulCo. v. George W. Borg Co., 27 F. Supp. 215 (N. D. Ill.,
min v. James Mfg. Co., 27 F. Supp. 512 (W. D. N. Y., 1939). Cf.
Heine Chimney Co. v. Rust Engineering Co., 12 F. 2d 596 (C. C. A.
2nd, '1926).
" Shainwald v. Davids, 69 F. 704 (N. D. Cal., 1895); Dod e Mfg.
Co. v. Patten, 23 F. 2d 852 (D. Ind., 1928), aff'd 60 F. 2d 676 (C. C.
A. 7th, 1932); Oklahoma Packing Co. v. Oklahoma Gas & Elec. Co.,
100 F. 2d 770 (C. C. A. 10th, 1938).
Originally enacted as c. 687, Laws of 1892, pp. 1805-1806.

NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
165

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

"William J. Brown as the person upon whom a summons

may be served within the State of New York." The
scope and meaning of such a designation as part of the
bargain by which Bethlehem enjoys the business freedom
of the State of New York, have been authoritatively determined by the Court of Appeals, speaking through
Judge Cardozo: "The stipulation is, therefore, a true contract. The person designated is a true agent. The consent that he shall represent the corporation is a real
consent. He is made the person 'upon whom process
against the corporation may be served.' .

.

. The con-

tract deals with jurisdiction of the person. It does not
enlarge or diminish jurisdiction of the subject-matter. It
means that whenever jurisdiction of the subject-matter
is present, service on the agent shall give jurisdiction of
the person." Bagdon v. Philadelphia& Reading C. & I.
Co., 217 N. Y. 432, 436-7. A statute calling for such a
designation is constitutional, and the designation of the
agent "a voluntary act." Pennsylvania Fire Ins. Co. v.
Gold Issue Mining Co., 243 U. S. 93.
In finding an actual consent by Bethlehem to be sued
in the courts of New York, federal as well as state; we are
not subjecting federal procedure to the requirements of
New York law. We are recognizing that "state legislation and consent of parties may bring about a state of
facts which will authorize the courts of the United States
to take cognizance of a case." Ex parte Scholenberger,
supra, at 377. The judgment below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, dissenting.

The Circuit Court of Appeals, in a careful and discriminating opinion,' has held that to deny the respondent's motion to dismiss it from the suit would be to dis'103

F. 2d 765.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

308 U. S.

regard the long settled construction of § 51 of the Judicial
Code and the equally well settled application of that
section. I think its judgment should be affirmed.
Whatever may be said in support of the original adoption of a different rule, it has been the law for a century
that, as respects the jurisdiction of the federal courts over
a corporation in diversity of citizenship cases, the corporation is a citizen and resident of the state of incorporation and of no other state. I do not understand the
court's
opinion to repudiate the rule.
The statute
which is now § 51 of the Judicial Code took
its present form in 1888. In 1892 the court held, in
Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444, 453, that,

under the statute, "a corporation, incorporated in one
State only, cannot be compelled to answer,- in a Circuit
Court of the United States held in another State in
which it has a usual place of business, to a civil suit, at
law or in equity, brought by a citizen of a different State."
This construction has been followed in this court without
deviation and with practical unanimity by the lower
federal courts.2
At the next term, in Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton,

146 U. S. 202, 205, 207, the ruling was reaffirmed in a
case where the defendant had registered as a foreign
corporation under a state law and, as a condition of registration, had agreed that service of process might be made
upon a designated agent.
2

In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221; Macon Grocery Co.
v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 215 U.S. 501; Ladew v.Tennessee Copper Co., 218 U. S. 357; Male v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 240
U. S. 97; General Investment Co. v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 260 U. S.
261, 271; Seaboard Rice Milling Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 363; Luckett v. Delpark, Inc., 270 U. S. 496; Burnrite Coal
Co. v. Riggs, 274 U. S. 208, 211. The decisions in the federal courts
are cited and discussed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 103 F. 2d
767.

NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
165

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

The earlier Act of 1875 provided that no civil suit
could be brought against a defendant in a United States
court "in any other district than that whereof he is an
inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of
serving such process ..."
Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, applied that
earlier statute. The court held that a foreign corporation
which had registered and consented to the service of process upon a designated agent had thereby agreed "to be
found" within the state and might therefore be impleaded
in a federal court sitting in the state although it was
not a citizen or a resident of the state. The case was
cited in the opinions in both the Shaw and the Southern
Pacific cases. In the latter the court said, referring to
the foreign corporation's agreement as to service: (pp.
207-8) "It might likewise have subjected the corporation
to the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States
held within the State-so long as the Judiciary Acts of
the United States allowed it to be sued in the district
in which it was found. .

.

. But such an agreement

could not, since Congress (as held in Shaw v. Quincy
Mining Co. above cited) has made citizenship of the
State, with residence in the district, the sole test of jurisdiction in this class of cases, estop the corporation to set
up non-compliance with that test, when sued in a Circuit
Court of the United States."
In re Keasbey & Mattison Co., 160 U. S. 221, the court
held (p. 228): "Under the provision of that act [the
earlier act of 1875], which allowed a defendant to be sued
in the district of which he was an inhabitant, or in that
in which he was found, a corporation could doubtless
have been sued either in the district in which it was incorporated, or in any district in which it carried on business and had a general agent." For this statement the
court cited Ex parte Schollenberger, Shaw v. Quincy

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

308 U. S.

Mining Co., and Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton. The
opinions in the last two, and that in the Keasbey case,
were written for the court by Mr. Justice Gray, who
summed up their effect by saying: "And it is established
by the decisions of this court that, within the meaning of
this act, a corporation cannot be considered a citizen, an
inhabitant or a resident of a State in which it .has not
been incorporated; and, consequently, that a corporation
incorporated in a State of the Union cannot be compelled
to answer to a civil suit, at law or in equity, in a Circuit
Court of the United States held in another State, even if
the corporation has a usual place of business in that
State."
This interpretation of § 51 has since remained unchanged. Congress must have known of and acquiesced
in the courts' construction of the section, particularly as
there have been efforts to amend it, and no alteration.
has been adopted.
Upon principle, and under the authorities, the mere fact
that service of process valid under state law can be had
on an officer or agent of a foreign corporation doing business within the state is irrelevant; for although the corporation may be served in conformity to local law, it
cannot be compelled to try its case in a federal court
sitting in the state. I do not understand the opinion
of the court to hold to the contrary.
But it is said that registration and designation of an
agent upon whom service may be made under compulsion
of state law amounts to a waiver of the requirements of
§ 51 as to venue, or to a consent to be sued in a federal
court sitting within the state.
As has been shown by quotation from the opinion, this
contention was made in Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton,
supra, and was overruled. The holding was one of the
alternative grounds of decision. The Southern Pacific

NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
165

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

case settled the application of § 51, in the circumstances
here disclosed, and the decision has never been qualified
or overruled. The lower federal courts have understood
and applied that decision with practical uniformity to
enable the foreign corporation to contest the venue of
suits against it.'
I see no reason at this late day to attribute a new effect
to the statute when Congress has not seen fit to express
a view contrary to that embodied in this court's construction of the law; though this might 'at any time be done.
The principle of stare decisis seems to me to make against
such a change.
The court below has analyzed the applicable New York
statute and has satisfactorily demonstrated that it deals
with service of process on foreign corporations in the
courts of New York. The state could not, by its laws,
affect the jurisdiction of federal courts or the venue of
suits therein,-a matter solely within the control of
Congress.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

join

in this opinion.
'Some of the cases are cited by the Circuit Court of Appeals in its
opinion. 103 F. 2d 769.

