SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
141

Syllabus.

constitutionality of such requirements was settled by
the Pipe Line Cases and we see nothing that excepts appellant from their effect. The smallness of the operation

is immaterial.8
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE (TOWN OF IRVINGTON).*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF
NEW JERSEY.

No. 11. Argued October 13, 16, 1939.-Decided November 22, 1939.
1. The freedom of speech and of the press secured by the First
Amendment against abridgment by the United States is similarly
secured to all persons by the Fourteenth Amendment against
abridgment by a State. P. 160.
2. It is a duty of municipal authorities, as trustees for the public,
to keep the streets open and available for movement of people
and property-the primary purpose to which the streets are dedicated; and to this end the conduct of those who use them may be
regulated; but such regulation must hot abiidge the constitutional
liberty of those who are rightfully upon the streets to impart
information through speech or the distribution of literature. Id.
3. The guaranty of freedom of speech and of the press does not deprive a municipality of power to enact regulations against stand'National Labor Relations Board v. Fainblatt,306 U. S. 601, 606.
* Together with No. 13, Kim Young v. California, on appeal from

the Appellate Department of the Superior Court of Los Angeles
County, California; No. 18, Snyder v. Milwaukee, certiorari to the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin; and No. 29, Nichols et al. v. Massachusetts, on appeal from the Superior Court of Worcester County
Massachusetts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Statement of the Case.

308 U. S.

ing in the middle of a crowded street and obstructing traffic, or
interfering with the passage of pedestrians in order to force their
acceptance of tendered leaflets, or against throwing literature
broadcast in the streets, since such conduct bears no necessary
relationship to the freedom to speak, write, print or distribute information or opinion. P. 160.
4. The purpose to keep the streets clean and neat is insufficient to
justify an ordinance which prohibits a person rightfully on a public street from handing literature to one willing to receive it. Any
burden imposed upon the city authorities, in cleaning and caring
for the streets, as an indirect consequence of such distribution, results from the constitutional protection of the freedom of speech
and press. P. 162.
There are obvious methods of preventing littering of the
streets,-e. g., the punishment of those who actually throw papers
on the streets.
5. The circumstance that, in the actual enforcement of an ordinance
forbidding all distribution of literature in the streets, the distributor is arrested only if those who receive the literature throw it
on the streets, does not render the ordinance valid. P. 163.
6. Ordinances forbidding distribution of printed matter are not made
valid by limiting their operation to streets and alleys and leaving
other public places free. P. 163.
7. A municipal ordinance prohibiting solicitation, and distribution of
circulars, by canvassing from house to house,. unless licensed by
the police after an inquiry and decision amounting to censorship,
held void as applied to one who delivered literature and solicited
contributions from house to house in the name of religion. P. 163.
121 N. J. L. 542, 3 A. 2d 609; 33 Cal. App. 2d 747, 85 P. 2d 231;
230 Wis. 131, 283 N. W. 301; 18 N.. E. 2d (Mass.) 16e, reversed.

Two of these four cases came up by appeal, and two by
certiorari, 306 U. S. 628, 629, to review decisions of state
courts which upheld convictions under municipal ordinances forbidding or regulating distribution of literature
in the streets or other public places. In three of the cases
the acts charged took place in the streets. The other was
a case of circulars distributed by house to house visitations.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
147

Argument for New Jersey.

Mr. Joseph F. Rutherford, with whom Mr. Hayden C.
Covington was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 11.
Mr. Robert I. Morris argued the cause, and Messrs.
Meyer Q. Kessel and Joseph C. Braelow were on the brief,
for respondent in No. 11.
Since the ordinance is valid on its face and petitioner
failed to seek a permit under it, she is not entitled to contest its validity in answer to the charge against her, nor
may she complain of anticipated improper or invalid action in administration. Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444;
Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553; Gundling v. Chicago, 177
U. S. 183; Lehon v. Atlanta, 242 U. S. 53.
The ordinance, of itself and as applied to the acts of
the petitioner, is constitutional and valid, because it is
a reasonable and proper exercise of the police power in
furtherance of the public welfare, to which the constitutional rights of freedom of speech and of the press are
properly'subject. Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, distinguishable and inapplicable. See Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co.,
242 U. S. 539, 552; Pittsburgh v. Ruffner, 134 Pa. Super.
192; 4 A. 2d 224, 228; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 -U. S. 27,
31; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 664; Bergenfield v.
Morgan et al., Sup. Ct. N. J., March 21, 1934; Davis v.
Beason, 133 U. S. 333, 344; Dziatkiewicz v. Maplewood,
115 N. J. L. 37, 42; Leoles v. Landers, 302 U. S. 656; Hering v. State Board of Education, 303 U. S. 624; Thomas
v. Atlanta, 1 S. E. 2d 598; Hamilton v. Regents of the
University of California,293 U. S. 245, 268.
Mr. Osmond K. Fraenkel, with whom Carol King and
Mr. A. L. Wirin were on the brief, for appellant in No. 13.
Messrs. Ray L. Chesebro, Frederick Von Schrader,Leon
T. David, John L. Bland, and Bourke Jones submitted for
appellee in No'. 13

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for California.

308 U. S.

The ordinance, prohibiting the distribution of handbills to pedestrians upon the public streets of the City of
Los Angeles, is a reasonable exercise of the police power
of the State.
The validity of the ordinance under the due process
clause is determined by its reasonableness as a measure
under the police power of the State. Gitlow v. New York,
268 U. S. 652, 668; Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357,
371; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380, 387; New York ex rel.
Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U. S. 63, 72.
The wisdom and necessity for this prohibition are primarily for the City Council to determine. South Carolina State Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S.
177, 192; Pacific States Box & Basket Co. v. White, 296
U. S. 176, 185; Fifth Avenue Coach Co. v. New York, 221
U. S. 467, 482; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 708.
There is nothing in the record which tends to show that
the prohibition of the distribution of handbills and
dodgers upon the public streets was not a reasonable exercise of discretion on the part of the Council of the power
of the City to "make and enforce within its limits all
such local, police, sanitary, and other regulations as are
not in conflict with general laws." (Cal. Const., Art.
XI, ยง 11.)
An uncontrolled distribution of papers of any kind on
the streets is bound to result, more or less, in stoppage of
storm drains.
It would present an anomalous situation if municipal
authorities could, in the interest of public health and
safety and the general welfare, establish set-back lines for
buildings or require open areas on each lot, Gorieb v. Fox,
274 U. S. 603; or require that certain districts be restricted to residence purposes only, Zahn v. Board 6f
Public Works of the City of Los Angeles, 274 U. S. 325;
or even prohibit the use of streets for *advertising purposes, Fifth Avenue Coach Co.. v. New York, 221 U. S.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
147

Argument for California.

467, 482; but be without power to adopt ordinances to
prevent the streets of the community from being littered
with trash.
Since abridgment of free speech is not the end sought
to be attained by the ordinance, any interference with
such right is incidental and does not make the ordinance
void. San Francisco Shopping News Co. v. South San
Francisco, 69 F. 2d 879, 892; cert. den. 293 U. S. 606;
Sieroty v. Huntington Park, 111 Cal. App. 377, 381;
People v. St. John, 108 Cal. App. 779, 784; Milwaukee v.
Kassen, 203 Wis. 383, 384; Almassi v. Newark, 8 N. J.
Misc. 420, 422; 150 A. 217, 218; Commonwealth v. Kimball, 13 N. E. 2d 18, 21; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444,
451.
It is obvious that the effect of the distribution of handbills, ,dodgers, etc., on the streets will be substantially the
*same whether they contain printed matter of a commercial nature or political or religious matter. Milwaukee v.
Kassen, 203 Wis. 383, 385.
A police regulation intended as such and not operating
unreasonably beyond the occasion of its enactment is not
rendered invalid by the fact that it may incidentally
affect some right guaranteed by the Constitution. Cf. op.
of Roberts, J., in the Hague case, 307 U. S.496; State v.
Gibbes, 171 S. C. 209, 218; People v. Alterie, 356 Ill. 307,
309; Francis v. People, 11 F. 2d 860, 865.
Since the object of the ordinance is not censorship or
the restriction of the right of free speech, the reasonableness of the ordinance is not to be determined by the rule
of "clear and present danger." See, Herndon v. Lowry,
301 U. S. 242.
It is beside the issue whether other means might be employed to prevent the littering of the city streets. Under
the police power any practice which tends to endanger
the health, safety or welfare of the public may be pre-venied. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 201;

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Milwaukee.

308 U. S.

Hebe Co. v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 304; Euclid v. Ambler
Realty Co., 272 U. S. 365, 388; Maxcy, Inc., v. Mayo, 103
Fla. 552, 577.
Since the ordinance is not a censorship measure, it is
not subject to the criticism made of the ordinances involved in Hague's case, supra, and Lovell v. Griffin, 303
U. S. 444.
The distinction pointed out by Mr. Justice Roberts in
the Hague case between the ordinance involved in that
case and the one in Davis v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43,
is the feature which distinguishes the Hague case from
the case at bar.
By reason of the nature of the contents of the handbill, freedom of the press is not involved in this case.
Mr. A. W. Richter, with whom Mr. Osmond K. Fraenkel
was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 18.
Mr. Carl F. Zeidler argued' the cause, and Mr. Walter J.
Mattison was on the brief, for respondent in No. 18.
The ordinance was enacted under ample authority.
Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Philadelphia v. Brabender, 201 Pa. 574; 51 A. 374; Milwaukee v. Kassen, 203
Wis. 383; 234 N. W. 352; San Francisco Shopping News
Co. v. South San Francisco, 69 F. 2d 879, cert. den., 293
U. S. 606; In re Thornburg, 9 N. E. 2d 516; People v.
Horwitz, 27 N. Y. Cr. Rep. 237; 140 N. Y. S. 437, 439;
Allen v. McGovern, 169A. 345; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Goldblatt Bros. Corp. v. East Chicago,
6 N. E. 2d 331; MeQuillin, Mun. Corp. (2d Ed.), Vol.
3, ยง 948.
Freedom bf the press is subject to reasonable rules
formulated to serve the public interest and to prevent
abuse in the manner of the exercise of the right, as longas the right itself -is neither suspended nor abrogated.
Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652, 666, 667; Whitney v.
California, 274 U. S. 357, 371; Stromberg v. California,
283 U. S. 359, 368; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 707,

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
147

Opinion of the Court.

708; DeJonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364; Frend v.
United States, 100 F. 2d 691.
The means adopted are legitimate and reasonable
means of regulation.
Messrs. Sidney S. Grant and Osmond K. Fraenkel for
appellants in No. 29.
Mr. Edward 0. Proctor, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Paul A. Dever, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellee in No. 29.
The ordinance is a valid regulation under the police
power for the preservation of public order, and the prevention of misuse, by littering, of the public ways; and
its specific provisions do not offend against the constitutional guarantees of the Fourteenth Amendment. Lovell
v. Griffin, 303 U. S.444; Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496.
The construction by the court below of the word "distribution," as used in the ordinance, should be adopted.
:The historic concept of liberty of the press, set forth by
this Court in Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, and like
cases is not at war with this regulation. Here there is no
intent to stop all free dissemination of literature and opinion, but only such a particular exercise of it as will interfere with travelers in the public way. See op. of court
below. Cf. Commonwealth v. Kimball, 13 N. E. 2d 18;
In re Anderson, 69 Neb. 686; Milwaukee v. Kassen, 203
Wis. 383; Davis v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Arthur Garfield Hays, Richard G. Green, and Perry J. Stearns filed a brief in No. 18
on behalf of the American. Civil Liberties Union, Inc., as
amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Four cases are here, each of which presents the question
whether regulations embodied in a municipal ordinance

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

abridge the freedom of speech and of the press secured
against state invasion by the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution.'
No. 13.
The Municipal Code of the City of Los Angeles, 1936,
provides:
"See. 28.00. 'Hand-Bill' shall mean any hand-bill,
dodger, commercial advertising circular, folder, booklet,
letter, card, pamphlet, sheet, poster, sticker, banner, notice or other written, printed or painted matter calculated
to attract attention of the public."
* "See. 28.01. No person shall distribute any hand-bill to
or among pedestrians along or upon any street, sidewalk
or park, or to passengers on any street car, or throw, place
or attach any hand-bill in, to, or upon any automobile or
other vehicle."
The appellant was charged in the Municipal Court
with a violation of ยง 28.01. Upon his trial it was proved
that he distributed handbills to pedestrians on a public
sidewalk and had more than three hundred in his possession for that purpose. Judgment of conviction was entered and sentence imposed. The Superior Court of Los
Angeles County affirmed the judgment.2 That court
being the highest court in the State authorized to pass
upon such a case, an appeal to this court was allowed.
The handbill which the appellant was distributing bore
a notice of a meeting to be held under the auspices of
"Friends Lincoln Brigade" at which speakers would
discuss the war in Spain.
The court below sustained the validity of the ordinance
on the ground that experience shows littering of the
"On account of the importance of the question we granted certiorari
in two of the cases, and noted jurisdiction in the others.
233 Cal. App. 2d 747: 85 P. 2d 231.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
147

Opinion of the Court.

streets results from the indiscriminate distribution of
handbills.' It held that the right of free expression is
not absolute but subject to reasonable regulation and that
the ordinance does not transgress the bounds of reasonableness. Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, was
distinguished on the ground that the ordinance there in
question prohibited distribution anywhere within the city
while the one involved forbids distribution in a very
limited number of places.
No. 18.
An ordinance of the City of Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
provides: "It is hereby made unlawful for any person...
to . . . throw . . . paper . . . or to circulate or distrib-

ute any circular, hand-bills, cards, posters, dodgers, or
other printed or advertising matter . . . in or upon any

sidewalk, street, alley, wharf, boat landing, dock or other
public place, park or ground within the City of Milwaukee.
The petitioner, who was acting as a picket, stood in the
street in front of a meat market and distributed to passing pedestrians hand-bills which pertained to a labor dispute with the meat market, set forth the position of
organized labor with respect to the market, and asked
citizens to refrain from patronizing it. Some of the bills
were thrown in the street by the persons to whom they
were given and it resulted that many of the papers lay
in the gutter and in the street. The police officers who
arrested the petitioner and charged him with a violation
8 On the hand-bill were the words "Admission 250 and 500." The
Superior Court adverted to these and said: "Whatever traffic in ideas
the Friends Lincoln Brigade may have planned for the meeting, the
cards themselves seem to fall within the classification of commercial
advertising rather than the expression of one's views. But if this be
so, our conclusion is not thereby changed."

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

of the ordinance did not arrest any of mose who received
the bills and threw them away. The testimony was that
the action of the 'officers accorded with a policy of the
police department in enforcement of the ordinance to the
effect that, wfien such distribution resulted in littering of
the streets the one who was the cause of the littering, that
is, he who passed out the bills, was arrested rather
than those who received them and afterwards threw them
away. The Milwaukee County court found the petitioner
guilty and fined him. On appeal the judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court.4
The court held that the purpose of the ordinance was
to prevent an unsightly, untidy, and offensive condition
of the sidewalks. It distinguished Lovell v. City of
Griffin, supra, on the ground that the ordinance there
considered manifestly was not aimed at prevention of
littering of the streets. The court approved the administrative construction of the ordinance by the police officials
and felt that this construction sustained its validity. The
court said: "Unless and until delivery of the hand-bills
was shown to result in a littering of the streets their
distribution was not interfered with."
No. 29.
An ordinance of the City of Worcester, Massachusetts,
,provides: "No person shall distribute in, or place upon
any street or way, any placard, handbill, flyer, poster,
advertisement or paper of any description. .. ."
The appellants 'distributed in a street leaflets announcing a protest meeting in connection with the administration of state unemployment insurance. They did not
throw any of the leaflets on the sidewalk or scatter them.
230 Wis. 131; 283 N. W. 301.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
'147

Opinion of the Court.

Some of those to whom the leaflets were handed threw
them on the sidewalk and the street, with the result that
some thirty were lying about.
The appellants were arrested and charged with a violation of the ordinance. The Superior Court of Worcester
County rendered a judgment of conviction and imposed
sentence. The Supreme Judicial Court overruled exceptions.' That court held the ordinance a valid regulation
of the use of the streets and sought thus to distinguish
it from the one involved in Lovell v. City of Griffin, supra,
which the court said was not such a regulation. Referring to the ordinance the court said: "It interferes in no
way with the publication of anything in the city of
Worcester, except only that it excludes the public streets
and ways from the, places available for free distribution.
It leaves open for such distribution all other places in
the city, public and private."

No. 11.
An ordinance of the Town of Irvington, New Jersey,
provides: "No person except as in this ordinance provided
shall canvass, solicit, distribute circulars, or other matter,
or call from house to house in the Town of Irvington
without first having reported to and received a written
permit from the Chief of Police or the officer in charge
of Police Headquarters." It further enacts that a permit
to canvass shall specify the number of hours or days it
will be in effect; that the canvasser must make an application giving his name, address, age, height, weight, place
of birth, whether or not previously arrested or convicted
of crime, by whom employed, address of employer, clothing worn, and description of project for which he is can'Mass. Adv. 1938, 1969; 18 N. E. 2d 166.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

vassing; that each applicant shall be fingerprinted and
photographed; that the Chief of Police shall refuse a
permit in all cases where the application, or further investigation made at the officer's discretion, shows that
the canvasser is not of good character or is canvassing
for a project not free from fraud; that canvassing may
only be done between 9 A. M. and 5 P. M.; that the canvasser must furnish a photograph of himself Which is to
be attached to the permit; that the permittee must exhibit the permit to any police officer or other person upon
request, must be courteous to all persons in canvassing,
must not importune or annoy the town's inhabitants or
conduct himself in an unlawful manner and must, at the
expiration of the permit, surrender it at police headquarters, Persons delivering goods, merchandise, or other
articles in the regular course of business to the premises
of persons ordering, or entitled to receive the same, are
exempted from the operation of the ordinance. Violation
is punishable by fine or imprisonment.
The petitioner was arrested and charged with canvassing without a permit. The proofs show that she is a
member of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
and, as such, certified by the society to be one of "Jehovah's Witnesses." In this capacity she called from
house to house in the town at all hours of the day and
night and showed to the occupants a so-called testimony
and identification card signed by the society. The card
stated that she would leave some booklets discussing
problems affecting the person interviewed; and that, by
contributing a small sum, that person would make possible the printing of more booklets which could be placed
in the hands of others. The card certified that the petitioner was an ordained minister sent forth by the society,
which is organized to preach the gospel of God's kingdom, and cited passages from the Bible with respect to
the obligation so to preach. The petitioner left, or

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
147

Opinion of the Court.

offered to leave, the books or booklets with the occupants
of the houses visited. She did not apply for, or obtain,
a permit pursuant to the ordinance because she conscientiously believed that so to do would be an act of
disobedience to the command of Almighty God.
The petitioner was convicted in the Recorder's Court.
The Court of Common Pleas affirmed the judgment.
On a further appeal the Supreme Court affirmed.6 The
Court of Errors and Appeals affirmed the judgment of
the Supreme Court."
The Supreme Court held that the petitioner's conduct
amounted to the solicitation and acceptance of money
contributions without a permit, and held the ordinance'
prohibiting such action a valid regulation, aimed at protecting occupants and others from disturbance and annoyance and preventing unknown strangers from visiting
houses by day and night. It overruled the petitioner's
contention that the measure denies or unreasonably restricts freedom of speech or freedom of the press. The
Court of Errors and Appeals thought Lovell v. City of
Griffin, suprd, not controlling, since the ordinance in that
case prohibited all distribution of printed matter and was
not limited to ways which might be regarded as consistent
with the maintenance of public order or as involving
disorderly conduct, molestation of inhabitants, or misuse or littering of the streets, whereas the ordinance here
involved is aimed at canvassing or solicibing, subjects
not embraced in that condemned in the Lovell case.
The court said: "A municipality may protect its citizens
against fraudulent solicitation and, when it enacts an
ordinance to do so, all persons are required to abide
thereby. The ordinance in question was evidently designed for that purpose ...
120 N. J. Law 460; 200 A. 799.
'121 N. J. Law 542; 3 A. 2d 609.

160.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court..

308 U. S.

The freedom of speech and of the press secured by the
First Amendment against abridgment by the United
States is similarly secured to all persons by the Fourteenth against abridgment by a state.'
Although a municipality may enact regulations in the
interest of the public safety, health, welfare or convenience, these may not abridge the individual liberties secured by the Constitution to those who wish to speak,
write, print or circulate information or opinion.
Municipal authorities, as trustees for the public, have
the duty to keep their communities' streets open and
available for movement of people and property, the primary purpose to which the streets are dedicated. So long
as legislation to this end does not abridge the constitutional liberty of one rightfully upon the street to impart
information through speech or the distribution of literature, it may lawfully regulate the conduct of those using
the streets. For example, a person could not exercise this
liberty by taking his stand in the middle of a crowded
street, contrary to traffic regulations, and maintain his
position to the stoppage of all traffic; a group of distributors could not insist upon a constitutional right to
form a cordon across the street and to allow no pedestrian
to pass who did not accept a tendered leaflet; nor does
the guarantee of freedom of speech or of the press deprive
a municipality of power to enact regulations against
'Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652; Whitney v. California, 274
U. S. 357; Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359; Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233; DeJonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353;
Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242; Lovell v. City of Griffin, 303 U. S.
444. There is no averment or proof in any of the cases that the appellants or petitioners are citizens of the United States, and in the
Young case, No. 13, the applicable provisions of the municipal code
were challenged on the sole ground that they infringed the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Cf. New York ex rel. Cohn v.
Graves, 300 U. S. 308, 317; Northwestern Bell Telephone Co. v.
Nebraska State Ry. Comm'n, 297 U. S. 471 at 473.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
147

Opinion of the Court.

throwing literature broadcast in the streets. Prohibition
of such condvot would not abridge the constitutional liberty since such activity bears no necessary relationship to
the freedom to'speak, write, print or distribute information or opinion.
This court has characterized the freedom of speech
and that of the press as fundamental personal rights and
liberties.' The phrase is not an empty one and was not
lightly used. It reflects the belief of the framers of the
Constitution that exercise of the rights lies at the foundation of free government by free men. It stresses, as do
many opinions of this court, the importance of preventing
the restriction of enjoyment of these liberties.
In every case, therefore, where legislative abridgment
of the rights is asserted, the courts should be astute to
examine the effect of the challenged legislation. Mere
legislative preferences or beliefs respecting matters of
public convenience may well support regulation
directed
at other personal activities, but be insufficient to justify
such as diminishes the exercise of rights so vital to the
maintenance of democratic institutions. And so, as cases
arise, the delicate and difficult task falls upon the courts
to weigh the circumstances and to appraise the substantiality of the reasons advanced in support of the regulation
of the free enjoyment of the rights.
In Lovell v. City of Griffin, supra, this court held void
an ordinance which forbade the distribution by hand or
otherwise of literature of any. kind without written permission from the city manager. The opinion pointed out
that the ordinance was not limited to obscene and immoral literature or that which advocated unlawful conduct, placed no limit on the privilege of distribution in
the interest of public order, was not aimed to prevent
molestation of inhabitants or misuse or littering of
9
Grosjean v. American Press Co., supra, p. 244; DeJonge v. Oregon,
supra, p. 364; Lovell v. City of Griffin, supra, p. 450.

204084 *-40----11

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

streets, and was without limitation as to time or place
of distribution. The court said that, whatever the motive,
the ordinance was bad because it imposed penalties for
the distribution of pamphlets, which had become historical weapons in the defense of liberty, by subjecting
such distribution to license and censorship; and that the
ordinance was void on its face, because it abridged the
freedom of the press. Similarly in Hague v. C. I. 0.,
307 U. S. 496, an ordinance was held void on its face because it provided for previous administrative censorship
of the exercise of the right of speech and assembly in
appropriate public places.
The Los Angeles, the Milwaukee, and the Worcester
ordinances under review do not purport to license distribution but all of them absolutely prohibit it in the
streets and, one of them, in other public places as well.
The motive of the legislation under attack in Numbers
13, 18, and 29 is held by the courts below to be the preVention of littering of the streets and, although the
alleged offenders were not charged with themselves scattering paper in the streets, their convictions were
sustained upon the theory that Uistribution by them
encouraged or resulted in*'such littering. We are of opinion that the purpose to keep the streets clean and of good
appearance is insufficient to justify an ordinance which
prohibits a person rightfully on a public street from
handing literature to one willing to receive it. Any
-burden imposed upon the city authorities in cleaning
and caring for the streets as an indirect consequence of
such distribution results from the constitutional protection of the freedom of speech and press. This constitutional protection does not deprive :a city of all power to
prevent street littering. There are obvious methods of
preventing littering. Am6npt these is the punishment
of those who actually throw papers on the streets.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
147

Opinion of the Court.

It is argued that the circumstance that in the actual
enforcement of the Milwaukee ordinance the distributor
is arrested only if those who receive the literature throw
it in the streets, renders it valid. But, even as thus construed, the ordinance cannot be enforced without unconstitutionally abridging the liberty of free speech. As we
have pointed out, the public convenience in respect of
cleanliness of the streets does not justify an exertion of
the police power which invades the free communication
of information and opinion secured by the Constitution.
It is suggested that the Los Angeles and Worcester
ordinances are valid because their operation is limited
to streets and alleys and leaves persons free to distribute
printed matter in other public places. But, as we have
said, the streets are natural and proper places for the
dissemination of information and opinion; and one is
not to have the exercise of his liberty of expression in
appropriate places abridged on the plea that it may be
exercised in some other place.
While it affects others, the Irvington ordinance drawn
in question in No. 11, as construed below, affects all those,
who, like the petitioner, desire to impart information and
opinion to citizens at their homes. If it covers the petitioner's activities it equally applies to one who wishes
to present his views on political, social or economic questions. The ordinance is not limited to those who canvass
for private profit; nor is it merely the common type of
ordinance requiring some form of registration or license
of hawkers, or peddlers. It is not a general ordinance to
prohibit trespassing. It bans unlicensed communication
of any views or the advocacy of any cause from door to
door, and permits canvassing only subject to the power
of a police officer to determine, as a censor, what literature may be distributed from house t6 house and who
may distribute it. The applicant must submit to that

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

officer's judgment evidence as to his good character and
as to the absence of fraud in the "proj'ect" he proposes
to promote or the literature he intends to distribute, and
must undergo a burdensome and inquisitorial examination, including photographing and fingerprinting. In the
end, his liberty to communicate with the residents of the
town at their homes depends upon the exercise of the
officer's discretion.
As said in Lovell v. City of Griffin, supra, pamphlets
have proved most effective instuments in the dissemination of opinion. And perhaps the most effective way of
bringing them to the notice of individuals is their distrihution at the homes of the people. On this method of
communication the ordinance imposes censorship, abuse
of which engendered the struggle in England which eventuated in the establishment of the doctrine of the freedom
of the press embodied in our Constitution. To require
a censorship through license- which makes impossible the
free and unhampered distribution of pamphlets strikes at
the very heart of the constitutional guarantees.
Conceding that -fraudulent appeals may be made in the
name of charity and religion, we hold a municipality
cannot, for this reason, require all who wish to disseminate ideas to present them first to police authorities for
their consideration and approval, with a discretion in the
police to say some ideas may, while others may not, be
carried to the homes of citizens; some persons may, while
others may not, disseminate information from house to
house. Frauds may be denounced as offenses and punished by law. Trespasses may similarly be forbidden.
If it is said that these means are less efficient and convenient than bestowal of power on police authorities to
decide what information may be disseminated from house
to house, and who may impart the information, the
answer is that considerations of this sort do not empower
a municipality to abridge freedom of speech and press.

NEIRBO CO. v. BETHLEHEM CORP.
147

Syllabus.

We are not to be taken as holding that commercial

soliciting and canvassing may not be subjected to such
regulation as the ordinance requires. Nor do we hold
that the town may not fix reasonable hours when can-

vassing may be done by persons having such objects a
the petitioner. Doubtless there are other features of
such activities which may be regulated in the public in-'
terest without prior licensing or other invasion of constitutibnal liberty.

We do hold, however, that the ordi-

nance in question, as applied to the petitioner's conduct,
is void, and she cannot be punished for acting without a

permit.
The judgment in each case is reversed and the causes
are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent

with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS is of opinion that the judgment in each case should be affirmed.

NEIRBO CO. ET AL. V. BETHLEHEM SHIPBUILDING CORP., LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 38.

Argued October 17, 18, 1939-Decided November 22, 1939.

1. Section 51 of the Judicial Code, as amended, which provides that
"no civil suit shall be brought in any district court against
any person by any original process or proceeding in any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is between
citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant,"
merely accords to the defendant a personal privilege of objecting
to the venue of suits brought against him in districts wherein under
the section he may not be compelled to answer. P. 168.

