OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

208

Statement of the Case.

308 U. S.

man Act as inapplicable upon the ground that interstate
commerce is not involved, and the question of the bearing
upon that commerce of the acts charged is not before us.
Similarly, the contention of the defendants who are
labor officials that the Sherman Act does not apply to
labor unions or labor union activities is not open on this
appeal. The District Court did not construe the Sherman
Act as inapplicable to these defendants and the Government's appeal, under the restriction of the Criminal Appeals Act, does not present that question.
The appeal as to count three is dismissed. The judgment is reversed as to counts one, two and four, and the
cause is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
CITIES SERVICE OIL CO. v. DUNLAP ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 28. Argued November 8, 9, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
A local rule of law, established by decisions of the state court, which,
on an issue of bona fide purchase without notice for value, rests
the burdeh of proof upon him who attacks the legal title and
asserts a superior equity, must be followed by the federal court in
a suit to quiet title brought by the legal owner of record. P. 210.
This is not a matter of practice in courts of equity but a matter of substantial right-a valuable assurance in favor of the legal
title.
:,J F. 2d 294; 101 id. 314, ieversed.

CERTIORARI,

307 U. S. 617, to review the affirmance of

a decree of the District Court in favor of the respondents
in a suit by the petitioner to quiet its title to a piece of
land.

CITIES SERVICE CO. v. DUNLAP.
208

209

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Clayton L. Orn, with whom Messrs. David B.
Trammell and Hayes McCoy were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Angus G. Wynne for respondents.
Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS,

announced by MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE HUGHES.

This cause is here in order that we may decide whether
the Circuit Court of Appeals wrongly declined to follow
the rule of the Texas courts prescribing how and by whom
the facts should be shown where one party to a contest
concerning ownership of land claims the legal title as bona
fide purchaser. We have considered that point only and
conclude the ruling below was error. In consequence
the challenged judgment must be reversed. The cause
will be remanded for final determination upon the entire
record consistent with this opinion.
Prior to 1899 Louisa Rogers owned a rectanguar tract
of land-320 acres--in Gregg County, Texas. Tn February of that year her heirs-J. F. Rogers and his three
brothers-divided this by deeds, duly executed and recorded. One of these conveyed to J. F. Rogers sixtyeight acres out of the northwest portion of the tract,
described by metes and bounds. The north line was said
to begin at a specified point and to run thence west 440
yards to "Wiley Davis N. E, corner." There the boundary turns south and ruris for eight hundred and eighty
yards, thence east, &c. Measured on the ground, 440
yards ends sixty-six feet east of Davis' corner. This discrepancy gave occasion for the present controversy over
the sixty-six foot strip lying between a south-line from
Davis' corner and a p'arallel one, sixty-six feet to the
east. The ihterest asserted by respondents rests upon
the theory that by intention this was left undivided.

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

In 1930 J. F. Rogers' heirs granted an oil and gas lease
to all land described in the 1899 deed to him. By assignments and succession, petitioner Oil Company became
owner of this. The conveyances were duly recorded.
In 1934 respondent Dunlap obtained from the three
brothers of J. F. Rogers and his heirs, a lease of the major
part of the sixty-six foot strip above described. Title to
this is the subject of the present controversy.
Claiming that the land described in the Dunlap lease
of 1934 was within the boundaries of its earlier one
(1930), petitioner filed an original bill in the United
States District Court to remove the cloud. Dunlap and
the Rogers appeared and denied the material allegations.
A cross-bill set up their recorded deed and alleged that
the call in the '1899 deed to J. F. Rogers for "Davis'
northeast corner" was inserted through inadvertence and
mistake; that the distance call controlled; that the purpose of the parties was to establish the western terminus
of the north line sixty-six feet east of Davis' corner and
leave a strip on the west in common ownership.
Petitioner denied the allegations of the cross-bill and
asserted that it and its predecessors were purchasers of
the recorded legal title for value in good faith and without notice of mistake.
The District Court ruled in favor of Dunlap. The
Circuit Court of Appeals. affirmed. 100 F. 2d 294; 101
id. 314.
In the latter court petitioner maintained that under
the established Texas rule, on an issue of bona fide purchaser for value without notice, the burden of proof is
upon him who attacks the legal title and asserts a superior
equity. It cited White v. Hix, (Texas) 104 S. W. 2d 136,
139-140,1 and insisted that Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304
U. S.64, required observance of the local rule.
'"It is thoroughly settled that one who claims a superior equitable
title to land as against one who has purchased from the holder of the

CITIES SERVICE CO. v. DUNLAP.
208

Opinion of the Court.

The court recognized the existence of the Texas rule as
claimed but thought a different and better one was generally approved and should be followed. It said"In the present case the appellant is the original complainant, seeking a decree quieting its title. It has entered a court of equity, asking equity and bound to do
equity. The defendants in their answer set up a mistake, correctable in equity, in the partition deed made
to complainant's grantor, J. F. Rogers. Complainant
replies, denying the alleged mistake and
alleging
additionally in very general terms that it and its
predecessors in title purchased in good faith, paying value for the oil and gas lease it holds in reliance on
the deed as written, and without notice or knowledge of
the claim now asserted that the call for the Wiley Davis
northeast corner was inserted by mistake. There was
no further pleading."
"Issue stands joined on the new facts alleged by this
complainant's reply conoerning its purchase for value
without knowledge or notice. It seems to us that the
burden of proving these facts ought reasonably to rest
on the complainant, both because it has alleged them
and they are essential to its success, and because they
are peculiarly within its knowledge. . . . What the complainant itself paid, and with what knowledge, it of
course knows and could easily prove. There is a failure
of evidence, not only as to bona fides and want of notice,
legal title must show that such purchaser did not purchase for value or
purchased with notice of the outstanding equity. Teagarden v. R. B.
Godley Lumber Co., 105 Tex. 616, 154 S. W. 973; Commonwealth B.
& L. Assn v. Howard (Tex. Civ. App.) 61 S. W. (2d) 546; Moore v.
Humble Oil & Ref. Co. (Tex. Civ. App.) 85 S. W. (2d) 943, 944;
Tarkenton v. Marshall (Tex. Civ. App.) 91 S. W. (2d) 473. The
same rule applies in favor of lien holders. Texas Loan Agency v. Taylor, 88 Tex. 47, 29 S. W. 1057; McAlpine v. Burnett, 23 Tex. 649,
650." And see Ritch v. Jarvis, (Texas) 64 S. W. 2d 831, 834-835.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

but as to what was paid and to whom, and when and
how; the details of which the maker of this plea has from
the earliest time been held bound to allege and, when
put in issue, to prove."
"This seems to us a matter of practice or procedure
and not a matter of substantive law. There is no question as to what are the rights of a bona fide purchaser,
.or as to whether the facts established make complainant
out such, but only a question of how and by whom the
facts shall be shown to the court. Such matters are not
within the decision in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, and the
cases following it."
"We have here not a case where a Texas Jatute has
created the right asserted, or has created a pesumption,
or is in any manner to be applied as construed in Texas.
The question is simply what is the proper practice in
courts of equity. The practice followed in the State
courts of Texas, where equity courts as 17cy do not exist,
is not controlling."
We cannot accept the view that the ques,.jn presented
was only one of practice in courts of equity. Rather we
think it relates to a substantial right upon which the
holder of recorded legal title to Texas land may confidently rely. Petitioner was entitled to the protection
afforded by the local rule. In the absence of evidence
showing it was not a bona fide purchaser its position was
superior to a claimant asserting an equitable interest
only. This was a valuable assuranod in favor of its
title.
Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 512,
considered an analogous situation and pointed out the
principle presently applicable. Proof that petitioner
did not purchase for value and in good faith was "part
of the very substance" of respondents' cause.
Sundry arguments advanced here to support respondents' demand for affirmance, notwithstanding the er-

UNION STOCK YARD CO. v. U. S.
208

213

Syllabus.

roneous pronouncement below, will be matter for
consideration when the cause comes again before the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
Reversed.
UNION STOCK YARD & TRANSIT CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 40. Argued November 10, 13, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
1. Transportation of livestock by rail begins with its delivery to the
carrier for loading on its cars, and ends only after unloading, for
delivery or tender to the consignee, at the place of destination.
P. 219.
2. The Union Stock Yard and Transit Company of Chicago loads
and unloads livestock using platforms and chutes which it owns
and which are the necessary and only means of loading and unloading at its yard, to and from which the livestock is shipped
interstate. Its charges to the railroads for these services are included in the charges for transportation collected by the railroads
from the shippers. Its yard is the principal railroad terminal
in Chicago for the receipt of livestock in carload lots. It holds
itself out to the public as performing the loading and unloading
service, and permits it to be performed by no other. Held, that
it is engaged in providing "terminal facilities" in the performance
of "transportation service" and is a "common carrier . . . railroad" within the meaning of the Interstate Commerce Act; and
as such its charges are subject to regulation by the Interstate
Commerce Commission. P. 219.
3. The Stock Yard Company is such a common carrier and is subject
to regulation of its rates under the Act notwithstanding that, as an
incident to the service it renders to shippers and to the line-haul
carriers, it acts as agent of the latter, and notwithstanding that its
terminal service includes no rail haul. Distinguishing Ellis v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434. P. 220.
4. In as much as the Interstate Commerce Act places the loading
and unloading facilities and services under the authority oi the
Interstate Commerce Commission, they are excluded from the

