LETULLE v. SCOFIELD.
413

Counsel for Parties.

sentation proceeding authorized by § 9 (c) and is no more
subject to review under § 10 (f) than is a certification
which is the final step in such a proceeding and which we
have just held Congress has excluded from the review
afforded by that subdivision.
Reversed.
LETULLE v. SCOFIELD, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 63.

Argued December 4, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. A transaction whereby one corporation transfers all of its property to another corporation for cash and bonds, of the transferee,
retaining no other stake in, the enterprise, is not a tax-free "reorganization" within the meaning of § 112 (i) of the Revenue Act of
1928, but is a sale or exchange. P. 419.
2. A respondent or an appellee may urge any matter appearing in
the record in support of a judgment, but he may not attack it,
even on grounds asserted in the court below, in an effort to have
this Court reverse it, when he himself has not sought review of the
whole judgment, or of that portion which is adverse to him. P. 421.
103 F. 2d 20, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 531, to review the reversal of a judgment against the Collector for taxes unlawfully collected.
The plaintiff sued individually and as executor of his wife's
will and as her representative in the community property.
The actions were consolidated and tried without a jury.

Mr. Homer L. Bruce, with whom Mr. W. E. Davant was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and F. E. Youngman were on the brief, for
respondent.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.'
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
court.
We took this case because the petition for certiorari
alleged that the Circuit Court of Appeals had based its
decision on a point not presented or argued by the litigants, which the petitioner had never had an opportunity
to meet by the production of evidence.
The Gulf Coast Irrigation Company was the owner
of irrigation properties. Petitioner was its sole stockholder. He prsonally owned certain lands and other
irrigation properties. November 4, 1931, the Irrigation
Company, the Gulf Coast Water Company, and the
petitioner, entered into ar agreement which recited that
the petitioner owned all of the stock of the Irrigation
Company; described the company's properties, and
stated that, prior to conveyance to be made pursuant
to the contract, the Irrigation Company would be the
owner of certain other lands and irrigation properties.
These other lands and properties were those which the
petitione individually owned. The contract called for
a conveyance of all the properties owned, and to be
owned, by the Irrigation Company for $50,000 in cash
and $750,000 in bonds of the Water Company, payable
serially over the period January 1, 1933, to January 1,
1944. The petitioner joined in 'this agreement as a
guarantor of the title of the Irrigation Company and
for the purpose of covenanting that he would not personally enter into the irrigation business within a fixed
area during a specified period after the execution of the
contract. Three days later, at a special meeting of stockholders of the Irrigation Company, the proposed reorganization was approved, the minutes stating that the taxpayer, "desiring also to reorganize his interest in the
properties," had consented to be a party to the reorganization. The capital stock of the Irrigation Company was

LETULLE v. SCOFIELD.
415

Opinion of the Court.

increased and thereupon the taxpayer subscribed for the
new stock and paid for it by conveyance of his individual
properties.
The contract between the two corporations was carried
out November 18, with the result that the Water Company became owner of all the properties then owned by
the Irrigation Company including the property theretofore owned by the petitioner individually. Subsequently
all of its assets, including the bonds received from the
Water Company, were distributed to the petitioner. The
company was then dissolved. The petitioner and his wife
filed a tax return as members of a community in which
they reported no gain as a result of the receipt of the
liquidating dividend from the Irrigation Company. The
latter reported no gain for the taxable year in virtue of
its receipt of bonds and cash from the Water Company.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed additional taxes against the community, as individual taxpayers, by reason of the receipt of the liquidating dividend, and against the petitioner as transferee of the Irrigation Company's assets in virtue of the gain realized
by the company on the sale of its property. The tax
was paid and claims for refund were filed. Petitioner's
wife having died he brought suit individually and as her
executor and representative in the community property
against the respondent to recover the amount of the
additional taxes-so assessed. He alleged that the transaction constituted a tax-exempt reorganization as defined by the Revenue Act." The respondent traversed
the allegations of the complaints and the causes were
consolidated and tried by the District Court without a
jury. The respondent's contention that the transaction
amounted merely to a sale of assets by the petitioner and
the Irrigation Company and did not fall within the statu§ 112 (i) of the Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, 45 Stat. 791, 818.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

tory definition of a tax-free reorganization was overruled
by the District Court and judgment was entered for the
petitioner.
The respondent appealed, asserting error on the part
of the District Court in matters not now material and
also assigning as error the court's holding that the transaction constituted a nontaxable reorganization.
The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that, as the
Water Company acquired substantially all the properties
of the Irrigation Company, there was a merger of the
latter within the literal language of the statute, but held
that, in the light of the construction this Court has put
upon the statute, the transaction would not be a reorganization unless the transferor retained a definite and
substantial interest in the affairs of the transferee. It
thought this requirement was satisfied by the taking of
the bonds of the Water Company, and, therefore, agreed
with the District Court that a reorganization had been
consummated. It added, however, "We find a reason for
reversing the judgment which has not been argued."
Adverting to the fact that the transfer of the petitioner's
individual properties to the Irrigation Company was for
the purpose of including them in the latter's assets to be
transferred in the proposed reorganization, the court said
the statute did not extend to the reorganization of an individual's business or affairs, and the transaction was a
reorganization within the meaning of the Revenue Act
as respects the corporation's assets owned on November
4, 1931, but not as respects the petitioner's individual
properties included in the sale. It concluded: "Only so
much of the consideration as represents the price of :the
properties and business of the Irrigation Company is entitled to be protected -from taxation as arising from a
reorganization. It does not appear what the proper apportionment is. The burden was upon LeTulle to show
not only that he had been illegally taxed, but how much

LETULLE v. SCOFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

415

of what was collected from him was illegal. The latter
he did not do. The evidence does not support the judgment for the full amount paid by him. It is accordingly
reversed, that further proceedings may be had consistent
herewith." 2
The petitioner sought certiorari asserting that the Circuit Court of Appeals had departed from the usual and
accepted course of judicial proceedings by deciding the
cause upon a ground not presented or argued and hence
had deprived the petitioner of his day in court. The
respondent, though he had contended below that the
transaction in question did not amount to a tax-free statutory reorganization, did not file a cross petition asking
for a review of that part of the judgment exempting
from taxation gain to the Irrigation Company arising
from the transfer of its assets owned by it on and prior to
November 4, 1931, and the part of the liquidating
dividend attributable thereto.
We find it unnecessary to consider petitioner's contention that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in deciding
the case on a ground not raised by the pleadings, not before the trial court, not suggested or argued in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and one as to which the. petitioner had
never had the opportunity to present his evidence, since
we are of opinion that the transaction did not amount to
a reorganization and that, therefore, the petitioner cannot
complain, as the judgment must be affirmed on the ground
that no tax-free reorganization was effected within the
meaning of the statute.
Section 112 (i) provides, so far as material:
"(1) The term 'reorganization' means (A) a merger
or consolidation (including the acquisition by one corporation of at least a majority of the voting stock and at
least a majority of the total number of shares of all other
103 F. 2d 20.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

classes of stock of another corporation, or substantially
all the properties of another corporation) . .
As the court below properly stated, the section is not
to be re'd literally, as denominating the transfer of all the
assets of one company for what amounts to a cash consideration given by the other a reorganization. We have
held that where the consideration consists of cash and
short term notes the transfer does not amount to a reorganization within the true meaning of the statute, but is
a sale upon which gain or loss must be reckoned. We
have said that the statute was not satisfied unless the
transferor retained a substantial stake in the enterprise
and such a stake was thought to be retained where a large
proportion of the consideration was in common sLock of
the-transferee, or where the transferor took cash and the
entire issue of preferred stock of the transferee corporation.' And, where the consideration is reprebented by a
substantial proportion of stock, and the balance in bonds,
the total consideration received is exempt from tax under
§ 112 (b) (4) and 112 (g)!
In applying our decision in the Pinellascase ' the courts
have generally held that receipt of long term bonds as
distinguished from short term notes constitutes the retention of an interest in the purchasing corporation.
There has naturally been some difficulty in classifying
the securities involved in various case$."
We are of opinion that the term of'the obligations is
not material. Where the consideration 1s,,wholly in the
Pinellas Ice & Cold Storage Co. v. Commissioner, 287 U S.462.
'Helvering v. Minnesota Tea Co., 296 U. S. 378.
'Nelson Co. v. Helvering, 296 U. S. 374.
'45 Stat. 816, 818. See Helvering v. Watts, 296 U. S. 387.
'Worcester Salt Co. v. Commissioner, 75 F. 2d 251; Lilienthal v.
Commissioner, 80 F. 2d 411, 413; Burnham v. Commissioner, 86 Y.
2d 776; Commissioner v. Kitselman, 89 F. 2d 458; Commissioner v.
Freund, 98 F. 2d 201; Commissioner v. Tyng, 106 F. 2d 55; L. & E.

Stirn, Inc. v. Commissioner, 107 F. 2d 390.

LETULLE v. SCOFIELD.
415

Opinion of the Court.

transferee's bonds, or part cash and part such bonds, we
think it cannot be said that the transferor retains any
propietary interest in the enterprise. On the contrary,
he becomes a creditor of the transferee; and we do not
think that the fact referred to by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, that the bonds were secured solely by the assets
transferred and that, upon default, the bondholder would
retake only the property sold, changes his status from that
of a creditor to one having a proprietary stake, within the
purview of the statute.
We conclude that the Circuit Court of Appeals was
in error in holding that, as respects any of the property
transferred to the .Water Company, the transaction was
other than a sale or exchange upon which gain or loss
must be reckoned in accordance with the provisions of
the revenue act dealing with the recognition of gain or
loss upon a sale or exchange.
Had the respondent sought and been granted certiorari
the petitioner's tax liability would, in the view we have,
expressed, be substantially inreased over the amount
found due by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Since the
respondent has not drawn into question so much of the
judgment as exempts from taxation gain to the irrigation Company arising from transfer of its assets owne4
by it on and prior to November 4, 1931, and the part of
the liquidating dividend attributable thereto, we cannot
afford him relief from that portion of the judgment which
was adverse to him.
A respondent or an appellee may utge any matter appearing in the record in support of a judgment,' but 1.e
may not attack it even on grounds asserted in the court
below, in an effort to have this Court reverse it, when
'Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 535-537; Helvering v. Gowran,
302 U. S. 238, 245; Ticonic Bank v. Sprague,. 303 U. S. 406, 4

note 3.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

he himself has not sought review of the whole judgment,
or of that portion which is adverse t'o him.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
affirmed and the cause is remanded to the District Court
with directions to proceed in accordance with the opinion
and mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

Affirmed.

GENERAL AMERICAN TANK CAR CORP. v. EL
DORADO TERMINAL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 129.

Argued December 12, 13, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

A car company leased, on a monthly rental basis, tank cars to a
shipper for the transportation of the latter's products in interstate commerce, the contract providing that tariff car-mileage
allowances from railroads for the use of the cars should be collecied by the car company and be credited monthly to the rental
-account of the shipper. The tariffs contained no provision for
* payment of such allowances directly to the shipper; and, under
the carriers' rules, they were paid in this case to the car company.
The car company subsequently refused to pay to the shipper any
excess of car-mileage allowances over the stipulated rents, on the
ground that it would thus be participating in illegal rebating.
The shipper thereupon brought suit in assumpsit upon the lease
to recover the amount of such excess. Held:
1. The suit was within the jurisdiction of the District Court,
since the action was an ordinary one in assumpsit on a written
contract and the court had jurisdiction of the parties. P. 432.
"The Stephen Morgan, 94 U. S. 599; Mount Pleasant v. Beccwith, 100 U. S. 514, 527; United States v. Blackfeather, 155 U. S.
180, 186; Landram v. Jordan, 26 U. S. 56, 62; Bothwell v. United
States, 254 U. S. 231, 233; United States v. American Railway Express Co., 265 U. S. 425, 435; Morley Construction Co. v. Maryland
Casualty Cd., 300 U. S. 185, 191.

