OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

132

308 U. S.

Syllabus.

requirements of the Act cannot be adopted nor that all
reasonable time for proposal of such alternative plans
has expired.
We therefore hold that the plan is not fair and equitable and that the judgment below must be and is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

oydisposition of this case.
ZIFFRIN, INC. v. REEVES, COMMISSIONER OF

REVENUE OF KENTUCKY,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 8.

Argued October 12, 1939.-Decided November 13, 1939.

1. In the exercise of its power over the manufacture, distribution and
sale of intoxicating liquors, a State may confine the business of
transporting them within the State to those who are licensed as
common carriers, and may enforce this by penalty and confisca-

tion. P. 138.
2. The state power to prohibit absolutely, includes the lesser power
to permit manufacture, sale, transportation or possession, subject
to prescribed conditions which are not unreasonable and which
subserve the policy of confining the liquor traffic in order to minimize its evils and to secure payment of revenue. P. 138.
3. Provisions of the Kentucky Alcohol Beverage Control Act forbidding the carriage of intoxicating liquors by carriers other than
licensed common carriers and forbidding distillers to deliver to an
unauthorized carrier, are not invalid under the Commerce Clause,
or under the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment, nor inconsistent with the Federal Motor
Carrier Act of 1935, as applied to a contract carrier in an established business of transporting such liquors,, produced in Kentucky, to consignees in other States. Pp. 138, 140
4. The State may decline to consider certain noxious things legitimate articles of commerce, and inhibit their transportation. Property rights in intoxicants depend on state laws and cease if the
liquor becomes contraband. P. 140.

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. REEVES.
132

Opinion of the Court.

5. Although regulation by a State may impose some burden on interstate commerce, this is permissible when "an inseparable incident
of the exercise of a legislative authority, which, under the Constitution, has been left to the states." P. 141.
24 F. Supp. 924, affirmed.

from a decree of a District Court of three judges
denying an injunction and dismissing the bill in a suit to
restrain public officials in Kentucky from enforcing
against the appellant certain provisions of the state Liquor
Control Law. The case was heard below on plaintiff's
application for a preliminary injunction, and defendants'
motions to dissolve a temporary restraining order and to
dismiss the amended bill of complaint.
AI PEAL

Mr. Norton L. Goldsmith, with whom Mr. Howell Ellis
was on the brief, for ,appellant.
Mr. H. Appleton Federa, with whom Messrs. Hubert
Meredith, Attorney General of Kentucky, M. B. Holifield,
HarryD. France,and William Hayes, Assistant Attorneys
General, were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Since March 1933 appellant, an Indiana corporation,
has continuously received whiskey from distillers in Kentucky for direct carriage to consignees in Chicago. It
has permission under the Federal Motor Carrier Act,
1935,1 to operate as a contract carrier, and claims the
right to transport whiskey as heretofore, notwithstanding
inhibitions of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control
Law approved March 7, 1938.' By this proceeding it
'Aug. 9,1935, c. 498, 49 Stat. 543; U. S. C. Title 49, § 301, et seq.
'Kentucky Acts 1938, Ch. 2; Baldwin's Supp. to Carroll's Statutes
1936, Ch. 81, § 2554b-97, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

seeks to restrain officers of the State from enforcing the
contraband and penal provisions of that enactment.
The bill charges that to enforce the Control Law would
impair appellant's rights undeg the Commerce Clause,
Federal Constitution, and deprive it of the Due Process
and Equal Protection guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment. The District Court-three judges sitting-sustained a motion to dismiss. A direct appeal
brings the matter here.
The statute is a long, 'comprehensive measure (123 sections) designed rigidly to regulate the production and distribution of alcoholic beverages through means of licenses
and otherwise. The manifest purpose is to channelize
the traffic, minimize the commonly attendant evils; also
to facilitate the collection of revenue. To this end manufacture, sale, transportation, and possession are permitted
only under carefully prescribed conditions and subject to
constant control by the State. Every phase of the traffic
.,is declared illegal unless definitely allowed. The property becomes contraband upon failure to observe the
statutory requirements and whenever found in unauthorized possession.
Section 52 provides-"It shall be a criminal offense for
any person to manufacture, store, sell, purchase, transport or otherwise in any manner traffic in alcoholic beverages as that term is defined in this Act, without first
hiving paid to the Department of Revenue at its office in
Frankfort, the license tax required by this Act, and without first having obtained the license required by this
Act." B
Section 53 declares to be contraband: "(2) Any spirituous, vinous or malt liquors in the possession of any one
not entitled to possession of the same under the pro-

7

'Baldwin's Supplement
§ 2554b-150.

to Carroll's

Kentucky Statutes

1936,

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. REEVES.
132

135

Opinion of the Court.

visions of this Act." ' Peace officers are authorized to
seize such contraband and institute proceedings for
forfeiture.
Licenses are authorized (§ 18(1)-(9))' for distillers,
rectifiers, vintners, wholesalers, retailers, and (§ 18(7))'
for the transportation of liquors to and from any point in
the State. Privileges which may be exercised under these
are definitely set out.
Section 21-"A distiller's, rectifier's or Vintner's license,
as the case may be, shall authorize the holder thereof, at
'Id., § 2554b-151. "The following property is hereby declared to
be contraband: (1) Any illicit still designed for the unlawful manufacture of intoxicating liquors, or any apparatus designed for the unlawful manufacture of spirituous, vinous, malt or intoxicating liquors.
An illicit still or apparatus designed for the unlawful manufacture of
intoxicating liquors shall include (a) An outfit or parts of an outfit
commonly used, or intended to be used, in the distillation or manufacture of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors which is not duly registered
in the office of a collector of Internal Revenue'for the United States,
and the burden of proving that same is so registered shall be on the
defendant or defendants under charge; (b) any and all material,
equipment, implements, devices, firearms, and other property used or
intended for use, directly and immediately, in connection with the illicit
traffic in alcoholic beverages. (2) Any spirituous, vinous or malt
liquors in the possession of any one not entitled to possession of the
same under the provisions of this Act. (3) Any spirituous, vinous ,
malt liquors in the possession of any one and to which the revenue
stamps have not been affixed as and when required by the provisions
of the Alcoholic Beverage Tax Act, sections 4281c-1 to and including
4281c-25, Carroll's Kentucky Statutes, one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-six (1936) edition. (4) Any distilled spirits, wine or malt beverage in a container of a size prohibited by law or prohibited the particular party in whose possession same is found. (5) Any distilled
spirits or wine kept in an unauthorized place within any licensed premises under the provisions of section 77 of this Act. (6) Any motor
vehicle, water or air craft, or other vehicle in which any person is
illegally possessing or transporting alcoholic beverages."
5
Id., § 2554b-114.
Id., § 2554b-114 (7).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the premises specifically designated in the license, to
engage in the business of distiller, rectifier, or vintner, as
the case may be, as those terms are defined in this Act,
ahd to transport for himself only any alcoholic beverage
which he is authorized under this license to manufacture
or sell, . . .
Section 22-"Sales and deliveries of alcoholic beverages
may be made at wholesale, and from the licensed premises only, . (3) by licensed distillers, rectifiers or
vintners for export out of the Commonwealth; provided,
no distiller, rectifier or vintner, shall sell or contract to
sell, give away or deliver any alcoholic beverages to any
person, who is not duly authorized by the law of the
State of his residence and of the Federal Government if
located in the United States, to receive and possess said
alcoholic beverages; and in no event shall he sell or contract to sell, give away or deliver, any of his products to
any retailer or consumer in Kentucky."'
Section 27-"A Transporter's License shall authorize
the holder to transport distilled spirits and wine to or
from 'the licensed premises of any licensee under this Act,
provided" etc.9 Section 54(7)-"A Transporter's License
as provided for in section 18(7) of this Act shall be issued
only to persons who are authorized by proper certificate
from the Division of Motor Transportation in the Department of Business Regulation to engage in the business of a common carrier." 10
Section 89-"No person except a railroad company or
railway express company shall transport or cause to be
transported any distilled spirits or wine, otherwise than
as provided in this Act, except such beverages may be
'Id., § 2554b-118.
8
Id., § 2554b-119.
'Id., § 2554b-124.
"Id., § 2554b-154(7).

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. REEVES.
132

Opinion of the Court.

transported by the holder of any license authorized by
section 18 of this Act, from and to express or freight
depots to and from the premises covered by the license
of the person so transporting distilled spirits or wine.""
A license may only issue (§ 33)12 upon an application
which incorporates (§ 36(5))"3 a promise that "the applicant will in all respects and in good faith conscientiously
abide by all the provisions of this Act and of any other
Act or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages" etc.
Also, (§ 37)" there must be a bond "conditioned that
such applicant, if granted the license sought, will not
suffer or permit any violation of the provisions of this
Act" etc.
Having been denied a Common Carrier's Certificate,
appellant sought and was refused a transporter's license
because it held no such certificate.
In sum, counsel for appellant say: The complaint
charges that the Control Law is unconstitutional because
repugnant to the Commerce, Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Federal Constitution in that, under
pain of excessive penalties, it undertakes to prevent an
authorized interstate contract carrier from continuing an
established business of transporting exports of liquors
from Kentucky in interstate commerce exclusively. Also:
Intoxicating liquors are legitimate articles of interstate
commerce unless federal law has declared otherwise.
Interstate commerce includes both importation of property within a State and exportation therefrom. Prior
to the Wilson and Webb-Kenyon Acts, and the Twentyfirst Amendment, the powers of the States over intoxicants in both of these movempnts were limited by the
"Id.,
'Id.,
"Id.,
"Id.,

§ 2554b-190.
§ 2554b-131.
§ 2554b-134 (5).
§ 2554b-135.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Commerce Clause. These enactments relate to importations only. Exports remain, as always, subject to that
clause. "Although a state may prohibit the manufacture
of liquor, if a state permits distillation, sale and transportation-as Kentucky does-the rule of law is that
the state may not annex to its consent to manufacture
and sell the unconstitutional ban upon carriage of interstate exports of liquors by contract carriers."
The court below rejected appellant's insistence and
affirmed the asserted power of the State. Like conclusions were approved in Commonwealth v. One Dodge
Motor Truck, 326 Pa. 120; 191 A. 590 (123 Pa. Superior
Ct. 311; 187 A. 461); Clark v. State ex rel. Bobo, 172
Tenn. 429; 113 S. W. 2d 374; Jefferson County Distilling
Co. v. Clifton, 249 Ky. 815; 61 S. W. 2d 645.
The Twenty-first Amendment sanctions the right of a
State to legislate concerning intoxicating liquors brought
from without, unfettered by the Commerce Clause.
Without doubt a State may absolutely prohibit the manufacture of intoxicants, their transportation, sale, or possession, irrespective of when or where produced or obtained, or the use to which they are to be put. Further,
she may adopt measures reasonably appropriate to effectuate these inhibitions and exercise full police authority
in respect of them. Clark Distilling Co. v. Western
Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, 320; Crane v. Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 307; SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. North
Carolina,245 U. S. 298, 304; Samuels v. McCurdy, 267
U. S. 188, 197-198.
Having power absolutely to prohibit manufacture, sale,
transportation, or possession of intoxicants, was it permissible for Kentucky to permit these things only under
definitely prescribed conditions? Former opinions here
make an affirmative answer imperative. The greater
power includes the less. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. North
Carolina, supra. The State may protect her people

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. REEVES.
132

Opinion of the Court.

against evil incident to intoxicants, Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; and may
exercise large discretion as to means employed.
Kentucky has seen fit to permit manufacture of whiskey only upon condition that it be sold to an indicated
class of customers and transported in definitely specified
ways. These conditions are not unreasonable and are
clearly appropriate for effectuating the policy of limiting
traffic in order to minimize well-known evils, and secure
payment of revenue. The statute declares whiskey removed from permitted channels contraband subject to
immediate seizure. This is within the police power of
the State; and property so circumstanced cannot be regarded as a proper article of commerce. Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 59; Clason v. Indiana,306 U. S. 439.
In effect we are asked by injunction to allow a distiller to do what the statute prohibits-deliver to an
unauthorized carrier. Also to enable a carrier to do what
it is prohibited from doing-receive and transport within
the State.
Kidd v. Pearson,supra: An Act of the Iowa Legislature in general terms forbade manufacture or sale of
intoxicating liquor but permitted these for mechanical
or other purposes. An injunction was approved which
restrained Kidd from operating his distillery although he
claimed the output would be exported for sale beyond
the State. This Court said: "Whether a State, in the
exercise of its'undisputed power of local administration,
can enact a statute prohibiting within its limits the manufacture of intoxicating liquors, except for certain purposes,
is not any longer an open question before this court... :
The police power of a State is as broad and plenary as
its taxing power; and property within the State is subject
to the operations of the former so long as it is within the
regulating restrictions of the latter."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

The doctrine of that case has been often applied. Geer
v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; Rippey v. Texas, 193 U. S.
504, 509; Hudson County Water Co. v: McCarter, 209
U. S. 349, 357: "A man cannot acquire a right to property
by his desire to use it in commerce among the States.
Neither can he enlarge his otherwise limited and qualified
right to the same end"; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S.52;
State Board v. Young's Market Co.- 299 U. S. 59, 63;
Clason v. Indiana, 306 U. S. 439.
The two cases last cited recognize that the State may
decline to consider certain noxious things legitimate articles of commerce, and inhibit their transportation.
Property rights in intoxicants depend on state laws and
cease if the liquor becomes contraband.
We cannot accept appellant's contention that because
whiskey is intended for transportation beyond the state
lines the distiller may disregard the inhibitions of the
statute by delivery to one not authorized to receive; that
the carrier may set at naught inhibitions and transport
contraband with impunity.
The point suggested in respect of Due Process is not
in accord with what has been decided in the cases above
referred to.
The record shows no violation of Equal Protection. A
licensed Common Carrier is under stricter control than
an ordinary contract carrier and may be entrusted with
privileges forbidden to the latter.
Here the state law creates no discrimination against
interstate commerce. It is subjected to the same regulations as those applicable to intrastate commerce.
The Motor Carrier Act .of 1935 is said to secure to
appellant the right claimed, but we can find nothing
'there which undertakes to destroy state power to protect
her .people against the evils of intoxicants or to sanction
the receipt and conveyance of articles declred contraband. The Act has no such purpose or effect.

VALVOLINE OIL CO. v. U. S
'132

Syllabus.

The power of a State to regulate her internal affairs
notwithstanding the consequent effect upon interstate
commerce was much discussed in South Carolina Hwy.
Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 18'. There it was
again affirmed that although regulation by the State
might impose some burden on interstate commerce this
was permissible when "an inseparable incident of the
exercise of a legislative authority, which, under the Constitution, has been left to the states." In the absence of
controlling language to the contrary-and there is nonethe Federal Motor Carrier Act should not be brought into
conflict with this reiterated doctrine.
The challenged decree must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the eonsideration

or decision of this case.

VALVOLINE OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT "COURT OF THE UNITED STATES'
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 25. Argued October 19, 1939.--Decided November 13, 1939.
1. An oil company owning and operating a pipe line through which
it transports to its own refineries for its own refining purposes,
partly across state lines, oil which it purchases from producers at
the mouths of their wells, is an interstate "pipe-line company" *and
a-"common carrier ' within the meaning of § 1 (1) (b), and (3),
of, the Interstate Commerce Act, and under § 19a (a) and (e) may
constitutionally be required by the Commission to furnish maps,
charts and schedules of its pipe-line properties, for use in valuing
such properties under that section. P. 143.
2. In § 1 (b) (3) of the Interstate Commerce Act which provides
that the term "common -carrier" shall include "all pipe-line companies; express companies; sleeping-car companies; and all persons,
natural or artificial, engaged in such transportation or transmission

