OCTOBER TERI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

BRITISH

QUEEN MINING COMPANY v. BAKER
SILVER MINING COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 169. Argued March 13, 1891. -- Decided March 16, 1891.

There being no exceptions to the rulings of the court in the progress of the
trial,, and the findings of fact by the court being general, the record
raises no'question open to revision.

case is stated in the opinion. Argument was begun on
behalf of the plaintiff in error, but the court, on examining the
record, declined to hear further argument.
THE

AXr. James B. Reilly for plaintiff in error.
Mr.A. H Wintersteen and MA..Wayne Jl'Feaghfiled a brief
for defendant in error. Xr. E. . Mells, .r. R. T. Xofc.Aeal
and X P. John G. Taylor also filed a brief for same.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was tried by the Circuit Court, without a jury, and
under §§ 649 and 700, iRev. Stat., the finding must be "either
general or special." It cannot be both. Here there was a
general finding.
The record contains a bill of exceptions, but no exceptions
to the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial of the
cause were thereby duly presented, and although after reciting
the evidence it is therein stated that "the court thereafter and
during the said term made the following findings of fact and
judgment thereon," which is followed by an opinion of the
court assigning reasons for its conclusions, this cannot be
treated as a special finding enabling us to determine whether
the facts found support the judgment, nor can the general finding be disregarded. Dickinson v. Planters' Bank, 16 Wall.
250; Ins. Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237; -Morris v. Jackson, 9

ST. LOUIS &c. iAILWAY v. COMMER1CIAL IXS. CO.

223

Syllabus.

Wall. 125; Flandersv. Twieed, 9 Wall. 425; Ins. Co. v. Tweed,
7 Wall. 44; _Xiller v. Life Izs. Co., 12 Wall. 285; Ins. Co. v.
Sea, 21 Wall. 158; fartinton v. Fairbanks,112 U. S. 670;
.Baimondv. Terrebonne Parish,132 U. S. 192; Glenn v. Fant,
134 U. S. 398; Zloyd v. -3fo IMilliams, 137 U. S. 576.
The record raises no questions open to revision by us and
the judgment is
Affl?-ed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON

MOUNTAIN

RAILWAY COMPANY v.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

AND SOUTHERN

COMMERCIAL

OF THE

UNION

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1169. Submitted December 15, 1890.-Decided March 16, 1891.

In the State of Arkansas, foreign insurance companies are governed by the
statute of March 26, 1887, requiring such companies to file with the
auditor of State stipulations for the service of process upon them, and
not by the statute of April 4, 1887, which requires' foreign corporations
to file.such stipulations with the Secretary of State.
The right of an insurer, upon paying for a total loss of the goods insured,
to recover over against a third person responsible for the loss, is derived
by way of subrogation from the assured, and can be enforced in his
right only.
A railroad corporation, which has contracted with a compress company to
receive and transport all cotton brought by its owners to the warehouse
of that company, and neglects to do so, by reason of which, and of the
consequent accumulation of cotton at the waiehouse, so large a mass of
cotton is piled and kept by the compress .companyin the adjoining street,
as from'the danger of taking fire to become a public nuisance, and is
there destroyed by fire from an unknown cause, is not responsible for
the loss to owners of part of such cotton for which it has given no bills
of lading, if it has in fact assumed no custody or control of any of the
cotton, or of the place where it was kept, before it was put upon the
cars; although it has, as a matter of convenience, given to the owners
of other parts of such cotton bills of lading in exchange for the warehouse receipts of the compress company; and although it is prohibited
by statute, under a penalty, from issuing bills of lading, except for goods
actually received into its possession.

