OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

MANWHESTER

.

MASSACHUSETTS.

ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS
FOR THE COUNTY OF BARNSTABLE.
1No. 1518. Argued January 14,15, 1891.-Deided March 16, 1891.

'The act of the Legislature of Massachusetts, approved May 6, 1886, (Laws
of 1886, c. 192,) "for the protection of the fisheries in Buzzard's Bay,"
is valid, so far as it relates to the taking of menhaden.
It applies to a vessel which has a license to fish for menhaden under the
' laws of the United States.
As between nations,,the minimum limit of the territorial jurisdiction of a
nation over tide-waters is a marine league from the coast; and bays
wholly within its territory which do not exceed two marine leagues in
width at the mouth are within this limit; and included in such territorial
jurisdiction is the right of control over fisheries.
The courts of Massachusetts can lawfully take jurisdiction of violations of
such statutes, as against the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States.
It has always been the doctrine of this court, that whenever a conflict
arises between a State and the United States, as to the regulation of
commerce or navigation, the authority of the latter is supreme and dontrolling.
Within what are generally recognized as the territorial limits of States by
the law of nations, a State can define its boundaries on the sea and the
boundaries of its counties; and by this test Massachusebts can include
Buzzard's Bay within the limits of its counties.
There are no existing treaties or acts of Congress which relate to the
menhaden fisheries within such a bay as Buzzard's Bay.
The question is not considered whether or not Congress would have the
right to control the menhaden fisheries in question.

By an act of the legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, approved May 6, 1886, (Laws of 1886, a. 192,) entitled "An act for the protection of the fisheries in Buzzard's
Bay," it was enacted as follows:
"SECTION 1. -No person shall draw, set, stretch or use any
drag net, set net or gill net, purse or sweep seine of any kind
for taking fish anywh6re in the waters of Buzzard's Bay
within the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth, nor in any
harbor, cove or bight of said bay except as hereinafter provided.

MANCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

"SuCTIoN 2. Any net or seine used in violation of any provision of this act, together with any boit, craft or fishing
apparatus employed in such illegal use, and all fish found
therewith, shall be forfeited; and it shall'be lawful for any
inhabitant or inhabitants of any town bordering on said bay
to seize and detain, not exceeding forty-eight hours, any net
or seine found in use contrary to the provisions of this act,
and any boat, craft, fishing apparatus and fish found therewith, to the end that the same may be seized and libelled if
need be by due process of law.
" SECTION 3. All nets and seines in actual use set or stretched
in the waters aforesaid in violation of this act are declared to
be common nuisances.
" SECTION 4. Nothing contained in this act shall be construed
to interfere with the corporate rights of any fishing company
located on said bay nor in any way to affect the fish weirs.
mentioned in section seventy of chapter ninety-one of the Public
Statutes, nor the use of nets or seines in lawful fisheries for
shad or alewives in influent streams of said bay, nor to the
use of set nets or gill nets in the waters of the town of Fairhaven within a line drawn from Commorant rock southwesterly to the buoy on West Island Rips and from thence
westerly in a straight course through the buoy on West Island
Ledge to the town line of Fairhaven.
"SECTION 5. Whoever violates any provision of this act or
aids or assists in violating the same shall pay a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars for each offence.
"SECTION 6. District courts and trial justices shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the Superior Court of all offences
and proceedings under the provisions of this act.
"SECTION 7. All fines received under this act shall be paid
one-half to the complainant and the other half to the Commonwealth. All moneys from any forfeitures incurred under
this act shall inure and be paid one-fourth to the informer and
one-fourth to the person filing the libel and the other half to
the Commonwealth."
Under that statute, a complaint in writing under oath was
made on behalf of the Commonwealth, before a trial jlistice
VOL. cxxx x-16

OCTOBER TERM, 19 0.
Statement of the Case.

in and for the county of Barnstable, in Massachusetts, that
Arthur Manchester, at Falmouth, in the county of Barnstable,
on-the 19th day of July, in the year 1889, did then and there
draw, set, stretch and use a purse seine, for the taking of fish
in the waters of Buzzard's Bay, within the jurisdiction of the
Commonwealth. Under a warrant issued on this complaint,
Manchester was, on the 1st of August, 1889, b ought before
the trial justice, and"pleaded not guiltr. The justice found
him guilty, on a hearing of the case, and imposed upon him
a fine of $100, to the use of the Commonwealth, and costs,
and ordered that, if the fine and costs should not be paid, he
should be committed to jail, there to be kept until he should
pay them, or be otherwise discharged by due course of law.
The defendant appealed to the Superior Court of Barnstable
County. In that court, the case was, according to the statute,
tried by a jury, which found the defendant guilty. That court
reported the case for the determination of the Supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth, which heard it, and on the
18th of September, 1890, made an order that judgment should
be rendered on the verdict. On the rescript being received by
the Superior Court, it affirmed the judgment of the trial justice, and directed the defendant to pay a fine of $100 and the
costs of prosecution, and stand committed until he should
comply with the order.
The report of the Superior Court, signed by a justice thereof,
was as follows: "This was a complaint under section 1 of
chapter 192 bf the statutes of 1886. A copy of the complaint
is annexed and made a part of this report. The evidence of
the Commonwealth tended to show that the defendant and
others, who were citizens of Rhode Island and were officers
and crew of the fishing steamer called the 'A. T Serrell,' on
the day named in the complaint were engaged in drawing,
setting, stretching and using a purse seine for the taking of
fish in the waters of Buzzard's Bay. The place where the
defendant was so engaged with said seine was about, and not
exceeding, one mile and a quarter from a point on the shore
midway from the north line of said town to the south line
thereof. The point where the defendant was so using said

JUANCttESTEi,

v., MASSACHUSETTS.

Statement of the Case.

seine was within that part of Buzzard's Bay which the harbor
and land commissioners, acting under. the provisions of section
2 of chapter 196 of the acts of the year 1881, had, so far as
they were capable of doing so, assigned to and made a part of
the town of Falmouth. A copy of the map showing boundary
lines between the adjacent cities and towns bordering on Buzzard's Bay, as so located by said commissioners, was used at
the trial and may be referred to. The point where the defendant was using said seine is marked A' on said plan. The
Commonwealth's evidence tended to show that the defendant
and his associates, on said day and at the point described,
caught with said seine a large quantity of the fish called menhaden. In this act of fishing no fixed apparatus was used and
the bottom of the sea was not encroached upon or disturbed..
The Commonwealth further offered evidence tending to show
that the distance between the headlands at the mouth of Buzzard's Bay, viz., at Westport, in the county of Bristol, on the
one side, and the island of Cuttyhunk, in the county of Dukes,
on the other side, was more than one and less than two marine
leagues. The island of Cuttyhnnk is the most southerly of
the chain of islands lying to the eastward of Buzzard's Bay,
and known as the Elizabeth Islands. The distance across said
bay at the point where the acts of the defendant were done is
more than two marine leagues, and the opposite points are in
different counties. The defendant did not dispute any of the
testimony offered by the Conimonwealth, but introduced evidence tending to show that he was engaged in fishing for
menhaden only, and that he caught no other fish excepting
menhaden; that menhaden is not a food fish and is only valuable for the purpose of bait and of manufacture into fish oil;
and that the taking of said menhaden by seining does not tend
in any way to decrease the quantity and variety of food fishes.
The defendant offered evidence further tending to show that
he was in the employ of the firm of Charles Cook and others,
who were engaged in the State of Rhode Island in the business
of seining menhaden to be sold for bait and to be manufactured into fish oil and fish manure. The defendant further
offered testimony tending to show that it was impossible Lu

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

aiscern objects across from one headland to the other at the
mouth of Buzzard's Bay. The defendant's evidence showed
that the said steamer was of Newport, Rhode Island, duly
enrolled and licensed at that port, under the laws of the United
States, for carrying on the menhaden fishery, and it was conceded by the Commonwealth that the defendant was employed
upon the vessel described by said enrolment and license, and,
at the time of the"commission of the acts complained of, he
and his associates were so in the employ of the vessel described
in said license. The district attorney stated that he should
not controvert any of the foregoing evidence, but claimed that
it was incompetent in defence of this complaint; but for the
purposes of the trial I admitted the testimony. The foregoing
is all the evidence offered at the trial of this complaint. It
was conceded that the defendant could not be convicted if
chapter 212 of the acts of 1865 was not repealed by the statute
of 1886, chapter 192. At the conclusion of the evidence the
defendant asked me to rule as follows: 1. As the government
does not claim that the act complained of is in violation of any
statute except of chapter 192 of the acts of 1886, the defendant, notwithstanding that statute, is authorized to take menhaden by the use of the purse seine, in the waters of Buzzard's
Bay in the place where this act was committed. 2. Chapter
192 of the acts of the year 1886 did not repeal chapter 212 of
the acts of the year 1865. 3. The defendant may lawfully
take menhaden, by the use of the purse seine, in Buzzard's
Bay, in the place where the acts complained of in this case were
done. And also: 1. The act complained of was on the high
seas and without the jurisdiction of Massachusetts. 2. The
act complained of having been done under a United States
license for carrying on this fishery, the defendant cannot be
held as a criminal for violating a statute of this Commonwealth. 3. The defendant cannot be held unless the act complained of was -done and committed Within the body of a
county, as understood at common law. 4. The statute of this
Commonwealth prohibiting under a penalty the use of nets
and seines and the taking of fish within three miles of the
-shore is invalid, especially as against a license to fish granted

MA.NCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Statement of the Case.

under the laws of the United States. The defendant further
asked me to rule that on all the evidence the defendant could
not be convicted. . I declined to rule as requested by the defendant and-submitted the case to the jury, with the instruction that the statute of 1865 was repealed by the statute of
1886, and with the instruction that, if they found that the
defendant was engaged in using a purse seine for the taking
of fish of any kind in that part of Buzzard's Bay which was
within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
they would be authorized to convict the defendant, and that
the place where the acts of the defendant were committed,
being within a marine league from the shore at low-water
mark, was within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. The
jury returned a verdict of guilty; and now, after verdict and
at the request of the defendant, and by the consent of the parties, I report the case, with my rulings at the trial of the same,
for the determination of the Supreme Judicial Court."
The Supreme Judicial Court held the statute in questi6n to
be constitutional and valid, and delivered an opinion, by Chief
Justice Field, which is reported in 152 Mass. 230.
The defendant sued out a writ of error directed to the Superior Court, to review its judgment, and assigned as errors, that
the court ruled and adjudged: "1. That the place where the
alleged offence was committed was not a part of the high seas
and was not, under article 3, section 2, of the Constitution, which
provides that the judicial power of the United States shall
extend to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
within the exclusive -jurisdiction of the federal government.
2. That said place, notwithstanding said provision of the Constitution, was within the jurisdiction of Massachkisetts. 3.
That the plaintiff in error was not authorized to do the act
complained of by a license under Title 50 of the Revised Statutes, and was not protected by such license. 4. That chapter
192 of the acts of the General Court of Massachusetts for the
year 1886, as construed by the court, was valid notwithstanding the provisions of the Constitution and laws above cited, or
any provisions of the Constitution and laws of the United
States."

246

OCTOBER TERMT, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

-Mr. JosephiH. Choate and -Y. James F. Jackson for plaintiff in error.
I. At the time of the treaty of Paris, in 1783, the territorial
domain of England extended upon her coast to low-water
mark, including all bays, harbors and inlets within the "fauces
terrw, where a man can reasonably discern from shore to
shore."'
Within these limits was "the body of the county." Within
them the title to tide waters and the soil beneath was in the
crown.
Without these limits were the "high seas," the common
property of all nations. Over them England, as one of the
common sovereigns of the ocean, had certain rights of jurisdiction and dominion derived from and sanctioned by the
agreement of nations, express or implied.
Such jurisdiction and dominion she had for all purposes of
self-defence and for the regulation of coast fisheries.
The exercise of such rights over adjacent waters would not
necessarily be limited to a three-mile belt, but would undoubtedly be sanctioned as far as reasonably necessary to secure the
practical benefits of their possession.
If self-defence or regulation of fisheries should reasonably
require assumption of control to a greater distance than three
miles, it would undoubtedly be acquiesced in by other nations.
The macrine-league distance has acquired prominence merely
because of its adoption as a boundary in certain agreements
and.treaties and from its frequent mention in text books, but
has never been established in law as a fixed boundary.
These rights belonged to England as a member of the family
of nations, and did not constitute her the possessor of a proprietary title in any part of the high seas nor add any portion
of these waters to her realm. In their nature they were
rights of dominion and sovereignty rather than of property.
This question is very fully considered and the authorities
examined in a recent case. Regina v. .eyn, 2 Ex. D. 63.
The law of England was introduced and established in the
colonies. The characteristic features of the property title of

MIANCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the crown in the seashore, with its limit at low-water mark,
were recognized as distinguished from the peculiar rights of
Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush.
sovereignty called "regalia."
9 Gray, 451; .Martin v.
v.
Roxbu/ry,
53, 83; Commonwealth
Waddell, 16 Pet. 367. ,
The distinction between high seas and tide waters within the
body of the cownty has been generally recognized. Common'wealth v. Peters, 12 Met. 387; United States v. Crush, 5
Mason, 290; 1 Kent Comm. 396.
Such, then, was the territorial domain and such the extraterritorial right of jurisdiction which :Massachusetts possessed
and could have exercised as an independent State when she
adopted the federal Constitution.
As an independent nation she could have undoubtedly
enacted a statute like the one under discussion, which her own
courts would have enforced and which other nations would
have recognized.
IH. To what extent did she under the Constitution surrender
this right of control over the fisheries of the ocean?
(1) Whatever dominion or rights exist in the high seas are
determined by international law and rest solely upon the common consent of nations, yhich may be express, but is more
generally implied.
Whatever of such rights Massachusetts possessed previous
to the formation of the federal government she possessed
wholly by virtue of an agreement between herself as a nation
and other nations.
When she became a State in the Union she not only on
general principles merged her nationality in that of the United
States, but by express concession she agreed to these clauses
of the Constitution. Art. I., section 10. "1No State shall
enter into any treaty, alliance or confederation." "No State
shall without the consent of Congress enter -into any agreement or compact with another State or with a foreign power."
Thus Massachusetts was cut off from entering into such
agreements with foreign nations as ,make up the body of
international law. Not only could she enter into no new
agreement, but the continuance of existing agreements and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

contractual relations was terminated. When Massachusetts
adopted the Constitution she gave up her international dealings and ceased to be a party to the usages and agreements
by which they are governed.
The control over the fisheries of the ocean, resting as it did
upon such agreement and usage, was surrendered with the
power to contract with other sovereign States. This was not
a surrender of territory that belonged to her, but of dominion
over the common territory of the nations. Her title to her
own territory, as known and defined by law, she still retained.
Story on Const. § 1673.
"The Pacific Ocean belongs to no one nation, but is the
common property of all." Lord v. Steamship (%. 102 U; S.
541. Is every seaboard State of the Union one of these owners
and the United States without such ownership? Do these
States have the right to take possession and control of the
high seas as far as they shall see fit and assert each its own
ideas and claims of right under international law and usage?
Are the inland States without interest or authority in this
common ocean and what it contains?
It is certainly a subject of more or less disagreement between nations how far rights of dominion upon zhe sea extend,
giving rise to various assertions and claims. No absolute limit
has yet been fixed upon. Nothing more has thus far been
settled than that these rights extend to at least three miles
from shore.

It is difficult to believe that this question is one to be settled
between foreign nations and each of the seaboard States dealing with one another as common sovereigns of the sea. Ve
contend, on the contrary, that rights over the waters'adjacent
to our coast and a part of the ocean, "the property of no one
nation," are rights of dominion recognized and established
between nations by virtue of their national character and to
determine international relations; that as such the merging
of the national character by the several States into the United
States by the adoptior of the Constitution transferred by
necessary implication and express provision the exercise of
these rights.

LMANCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

(2) Another clause of the Constitution is to be considered:
"The judicial power shall extend to all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction." Constitution, Art. III., see. 2.
This grant to the federal head of the power to establish the
only courts which had any jurisdiction whatever upon the high
.seas is only consistent with the view that the rights to be protected were national rights and should be enforced in national
courts. Commonwealth v. Peters, 12 Met. 387; 1 Kent Com.
367, 397; United Sta1's v. Grush, 5 Mason, 290; Story Const.
1673.
The distinction between the jurisdiction left in the States
over localities within their territory, within the body of a
county, and the jurisdiction transferred to the United States
is clearly stated in Commonwealth v. Peters,where the chief
justice says: "Supposing the case stood upon the Constitution
of the United States alone, without any legislation by Congress, the natural conclusion would be that the purpose of the
-Constitution was to transfer to the government of the United
States all the admiralty and maritime, jurisdiction over cases,
civil and criminal, which had been exercised in England by
the courts of admiralty and the special commissioners for the
trial of maritime causes,, and that all other judicial power
would remain to the State. This would leave the courts of
the State all the jurisdiction of all cases occurring upon rivers
and other places within the ebb and flow of the tide lying
within the body of any county."
This clause is not to be construed as a "cession of the
waters," but simply of jurisdiction. The State did not own
the ocean and had no waters to cede.
Nor is it contended that the jurisdiction of a State is not
"coextensive with its territory." Our argument is that the
territory of Massachusetts was defined under the law of England, and that when she adopted the Constitution her domain
was limited, as far as proprietary title is concerned, by the
body of the county, in accordance with the established principles of that law.
It was withwut this territory that the offence with which
Manchester is charged took place, in a locality where legisla-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tive control did not rest upon title in the soil and waters, but
upon rights of sovereignty inseparably connected with national
character, and which had always been exclusively intrusted
to eWforcement in admiralty courts. The transfer of the
power to establish these courts, with their recognized exclusive
jurisdiction over the high seas, was equivalent to the transfer
of the right, of control over those seas.
This view is in accord with the decisions of the courts. In
all cases when the state courts have been held to have jurisdiction, the locality has been admitted to be within the territorial boundaries of the State.
Within such boundaries the common law courts-of the State
continue to have jurisdiction, the State continues to own, her
fisheries. United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, 387; Smith
v. .Maryland,18 How. 71. In the latter case Mr. Justice Curtis says' this power results from the ownership of the soil."
It is true that within the tide waters of the State "there has
been no grant of power over the fisheries" to the United
States. .Meoreadyv. Virginia, 94 U. S.391. That the State
had no jurisdiction upon the ocean within three miles of shore
was necessarily the decision of the court in the application of
the Crimes Act of 1790 to an offence off Newburyport.
United States v. Smith, 1 Mason, 147 ; United States v. Kessler,
Baldwin, 15, 35. Could Massachusetts, under chapter 289 of
the acts of 1859, oust the United States of its jurisdiction?
The transfer of this exclusive jurisdiction over the high
seas to the national courts was consistent with the true purposes of the Union. Such jurisdiction belongs to the federal
authorities for the best of reasons. Story Const. § 1673. The
admiralty jurisdiction of the United States, as compared with
that of England, has been extended but never abridged.
(3) "The Congress shall have power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the several States." Fishing
upon the high seas is in its nature an integral part of national
commerce, and its control and regulation are necessarily
vested in Congress and not in the individual States. To
secure the benefit of such national control and regulation of
the fisheries was one of the express purposes of the Union.

MANCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The fisheries of the ocean were viewed as of national importance, as one of the principal sources of maritime power
and of interstate and foreign commerce, and it was believed
that one of the great benefits to be obtained from the federal union was to be their control by a uniform law andprotectior7t by nationalauthority. The taking of fish in the ocean
is an act necessarily bringing those engaged in it into contact
with other nations. What is true of the simple act of navigation upon an ocean is still more true of fishing there. :See
Iord v. Steamship Co., 102 U. S. 511. Can there be any
doubt, following the reasoning in that case, that the control
of the vessels engaged in taking menhaden upon the high seas
is vested exclusively in Congress as a part of our external
commerce?
The principles to be applied under this clause of the Constitution have been stated in many cases and very fully in the
recent case of Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District,120 U. S. 489.
From the principles there laid down it would seem to be free
from doubt that the ocean fisheries or coast fisheries, as they
are termed, are national in character and in importance.
They were so considered previous to and at the formation
of the Constitution; they have been ever since a most important feature of national policy and occupied prominent position
in our treaties; they "enter into the national policy, affect
national rights, and may compromit the national sovereignty ;"
in the taking of the fish and in the navigation of the ocean
they are inseparably connected with the interests of the country as a whole and its people as citizens of the United States;
they constantly bring those engaged in this branch of commerce in contact with the rights and privileges of other
nations.
That the welfare of these national industries requires one
uniform system of regulation seems apparent.
Whether it be mackerel, cod or menhaden fisheries, what
more embarrassing and destructive of their proper conduct
than to have twenty-two different systems of laws and regulations controlling the same industry along our shores?
Nothing is more certain than that the just regulation of

OCTOBER

TERM, 1So.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

different fisheries demands careful investigation into the facts
relating to them, freoedom from prejudiced and vexatious local
legislation, and a protection that can only be secured from
congressional control.
This question does not affect menhaden fisheries alone, but
the mackerel, cod, and other fisheries as well. The fickleness
and injustice of state legislation must always subject to the
varying whims of local ignorance, or prejudice an important
industry, involving the outlay of a large amount of capital,
upon which great commercial interests depend, an industry
fruitful, too, of national blessing, in the building of ships and
in the education of mariners.
Moreover, even if the subject matter of ocean fisheries were
deemed to be of such a nature that the States might make
and enforce regulation thereof until the contrary intent of
Congress appeared, the purpose of Congress to take this regulation into its own control has been plainly manifested.
Under its joint resolution of February 9, 1871, in establishing the Fish Commission, and under Title LI of the Revised
Statutes, entitled "Regulation of the Fisheries," it has assumed
the regulation of the coast fisheries in all such respects as are
covered by the Massachusetts statute under which Manchester
was convicted. It has made it the duty of the Fish Commissioner to investigate the facts and report whether any,. and, if
so, what, protective, prohibitory or precautionary measures
shall be adopted in the premises.
This must have been done with a view of passing all such
laws as should be necessary for the protection of the food
fishes of the coast.
Again Congress took action in the enactment of chapter
288 of the statutes of 1887 relating to the mackerel fisheries.
It took action under the statutes relating to bounties, privileges and agreements in 1792, in 1793 and in 1813, and in
the granting of the license under which the plaintiff in error
was fishing.
. Whatever construction has been put upon such a license
in cases where the rights of the licensee have been affected
by state legislation, it has never been denied that such a

MANCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

license is a grant of authority, as held in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1.
When Congress enacted the law under which the plaintiff
in error took out his license its power to regulate this fishery
was exercised, and no prohibitory statute of a State could
defeat his right to fish in the high seas under it.
In the case of Smith v. .Afaryland, where such a license was
considered, the locality was admittedly within the territory of
the State and the state law was held valid under its right to
protect its own territory and property.
In each of the cases relating to the regulation of shell fish
the decision rests upon a state of facts in which it is conceded
that the fish were within the territory and soil of the State.
We do not question the right of the State to regulate its
own fisheries within its own soil or tide waters. The United States has in her treaties with foreign powers
several times disposed of these fisheries as though they-belonged to her and not as though they were the property of
the individual States.
Commerce with the nations is constantly concerned with
them, either through rights and privileges determined by
treaties or those determined by the general consent of the
common sovereigns of the ocean.
The menhaden fishery, with all its ramifications, inseparably connected as it is with the food fisheries and markets of
the world, is practically destroyed by such legislation as that
of Massachusetts, based upon an unjust. discrimination and
lack of such investigation as is being now carried on by
authority of Congress.
It is the exclusion by the State of an important business
connected with the commerce of the nations, authorized by
"national license, not from its own domain, where it might be
claimed to be a matter of internal concern, but from the high
seas, where it is necessarily a matter of external concern and
carried on in contact with and together with all mankind
AMr. Henry .Bliss, Assistant Attorney General of Massachusetts, with whom on the brief was Mr. Andrew J. Water-

OCTOBER TERIA, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ma.n, Attorney General of that Commonwealth, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The principal contentions in this court on the part of the
defendant are that, although Massachusetts, if an independent
nation, could have enacted a statute like the one inquestion,
which her own courts would have enforced and which other
nations would have recognized, yet when she became one of
the United States, she surrendered to the general -government
her right of control over the fisheries of the ocean, and transferred to it her rights over the waters adjacent to the coast
and a part of the ocean; that, as by the Constitution, article
3,section 2, the judicial power of the United States is made
to extend to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
it is consistent only with that view that the rights in respect
of fisheries should be regarded as national rights and be
enforced only in national courts; that the proprietary right
of Massachusetts is confined to the body of the county; that
the offence committed by the defendant was committed oiutside of that territory, in a locality where legislative -control
did not rest upon title in the soil and waters, but upon rights
of sovereignty inseparably connected with national character,
and which were intrusted exclusively to enforcement in admiralty courts; that the Commonwealth has no jurisdiction

upon the ocean within three miles of the shore; that it could
not, by the statute in question, oust the United States of jurisdiction; that fishing upon the high seas is in its nature an
integral part of national commerce, and its control and regulation ,re necessarily vested in Congress and not in the individual States; that Congress has manifested its purpose to
take the regulation of coast fisheries, in the particulars covered by the Massachusetts statute in question, by the joint
resolution of Congress of-February 9, 1871, (16 Stat. 593,) establishing the Fish Commission, and by Title 51 of the Revised
Statutes, entitled "Regulation of Fisheries," and by the act of

MAXCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

February 28, 1887, c. 288, (24 Stat. 434,) relating to the
mackerel fisheries, and by acts relating to bounties, privileges,
and agreements, and by granting the license under which the
defendant's steamer was fishing; and that, in view of the act
of Congress authorizing such license, no statute of a State
could defeat the right of the defendant to fish in the high seas
under it.
By the Public Statutes of Massachusetts, part 1, title 1, c.
1, sections 1 and 2, it is enacted as follows: "Section 1. The
territorial limits of this Commonwealth extend one marine
league from its seashore at low-water mark. When an inlet
or arm of the sea does not exceed two marine leagues in widt".
between its headlands, a straight line from one headland to
the other is equivalent to the shore line. Section 2. The sovereignty and jurisdiction of the Commonwealth extend to all
places withiir the boundaries thereof; subject to the rights of
concurrent jurisdiction granted over places ceded to the United
States."
The same Public Statutes, part 1, title 1, c. 22,
section 1, contain the following provision: "The boundaries
of counties. bordering on the sea shall extend to the line of the
Commonwealth, as defined in section one of chapter one."
Section 11 of the same chapter is as follows : "The jurisdiction
of counties separated by waters within the jurisdiction of the
Commonwealth shall be concurrent upon and over such
waters." By section 2 of chapter 196 of the acts of Massachusetts of 1881, it is provided as follows: "Section 2. The
harbor and land commissioners shall locate and define the
courses of the boundary lines .between adjacent cities and
towns bordering upon the sea and upon arms of the sea from
high-water mark outward to the line of the Commonwealth,
as defined in said section one, [section one of chapter one of
the General Statutes,] so that the same shall conform as nearly
as may be to the course of the boundary lines between said
adjacent cities and towns on the land; and they shall file a
report of their doings with suitable plans and exhibits, showing the boundary lines of any town by them located and
defined, in the registry of deeds in which deeds of real estate
situated in such town are required to be recorded, and also
in the office of the secretary of the Commonwealth."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The report of the Superior Court states that the point where:
the defendant was using the seine was within that part of
Buzzard's Bay which the harbor and land commissioners, acting under the provisions of the act of 1881, had, so far as they
were capable of doing so, assigned to and made part of the
town of Falmouth; that the distance between the headlands
at the mouth of Buzzard's Bay "was more than one and less
than two marine leagues;" that "the distance across said bay,
at the point where the acts of the defendant were done, is.
more than two marine leagues, and the opposite points are in
different counties;" and that "the place where the defendant
was so engaged with said seine was about, and not exceeding,
one mile and a quarter from a point on the shore midway from
the north line of" the town of Falmouth "to the south line"'
of that town.
Buzzard's Bay lies wholly within the territory of Massaohusetts, having Barnstable County on the one side of it, and
the counties of Bristol and Plymouth on the other. The
defendant offered evidence that he was fishing for menhadek
only, with a purse seine; that "the bottom of the sea was not.
encroabhed upon or disturbed;" "that it was impossible to,
discern objects across from one headland to the other at the'
mouth of Buzzard's Bay;" and that the steamer was duly
enrolled and licensed at the port of Newport, Rhode Island,
under -the laws of the United States, for carrying on the
menhaden fishery.
By section 1 of chapter 196 of the laws of Massachusetts of
1881, it was enacted as follows: "Section 1. The boundaries
of cities and towns bordering upon the sea shall extend to the'
line of the Commonwealth as the same is defined in section
one of chapter one of the General Statutes." Section 1 of
chapter 1 of the General Statutes contains the provisions before recited as now contained in the Public St.tutes, chapter 1,
section 1, and chapter 22, sections 1 and 1L Buzzard's Bay
was undoubtedly within the territory described in the charterof the Colony of New Plymouth and the Province charter.
'By the definitive treaty of peace of September 3, 1783, between the United States and Great Britain, (8 Stat. 81,) Hi&

MANCTHESTER v. 'MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

Britannic Majesty acknowledged the United States, of whiih
Massachusetts Bay was one, to be free, sovereign and indapendent .States, and declared that he treated with them as
such, and, for himself, his heirs and successors, relinquished anl
claims to the government, propriety and territorial rights of
the same and every part thereof. Therefore, if Massachusetts;
had continued to be an independent nation, her boundaries on
the sea, as defined by her statutes, would unquestionably be
acknowledged by all foreign nations, and her right to'control
the fisheries within those boundaries would be conceded. The
limits of the right of a nation to control the fisheries on its
seacoasts, and in the bays and arms of the sea within its territory; have never been placed at less than a marine league from
the coast on the open sea; and bays wholly within the territory of a nation, the headlands of which are not more than
two marine leagues, or six geographical miles, apart; have
always been regarded as a part of the territory of the nation
in which they lie. Proceedings of the Halifax Commissio.
of 187"7, under the Treaty of Washington of May 8, 1871,.
Executive Document No. 89, 45th Congress, 2d session, IHck..
Reps., pp. 120, 121, 166.
On this branch of the subject the case of The Queen -_
.EeyA, 2 Ex. D. 63, is cited for the plaintiff in error, but therethe question was not as to the extent of the aominion of Great
Britain over the open sea adjacent to the coast, but only as tc>
the extent- of the existing jurisdiction of the Court of Admiralty in England over offences committed on the open sea;:
and the decision had nothing to do with the right of control
over fisheries in the open sea or in bays or arms of the sea..
In all the cases cited in the opinions .delivered in The Queen v..
Zeyn, wherever the question of the right of fishery is referred,
to, it is conceded that the control of fisheries, to the extent of.'
at least a marine league from the shore, belongs to the nation,
on whose coast the fisheries are prosecuted.
In Direct U. S. Cable Co. v. Anglo-American Tel. Co., 2.
App. Cas. 394, it became necessary for the Privy Council to.
determine whether a point in Conception Bay, Newfoundland,.
more than three miles from the shore, was a part of the terriVOL. cxxXx.-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tory of Newfoundland, and within the jurisdiction of its legislature. The average width of the bay was about fifteen miles,
and the distance between its headlands was rather more than
twenty miles;. but it was held that Conception Bay was a part
of the territory of Newfoundland, because the British government had exercised exclusive dominion over it, with the.acquiescence of other nations, and it had been declared by act of
Parliament "to be part of the British territory, and part of
the country made subject to the legislature ofNewfoundland."
We think it must be regarded as established that, as between
nations, the minimum limit of the territorial jurisdiction of a
nation over tide-waters is a marine league from its coast; that
bays wholly within its territory not exceeding two marine
leagues in width at the mouth are within this limit; and that
included in this territorial jurisdiction is the right, of control
over fisheries, whether the fish be migratory, free-swimming
fish, or free-moving fish, or fish attached to or embedded in
the soil. The open seawithin this limit is, of course, subject
to the common right of navigation; and all governments, for
the purpose of self-protection in time of war or for the prevention of frauds on its revenue, exercise an authority beyond this
limit. Gould on Waters, part 1, c. 1, §§ 1-17, and notes; YNeill
v. Duke of Devonshire, 8 App. Cas. 1 35; Gammell v. 'Commissioners, 3 Macq. 419; .owat v. .lfcFee, 5 Sup. Ct. of Canada,
66-, TIe Queen v. Cubitt, 22 Q. B. D. 622; St. 46 & 47 Viet.
c. 22.
It is further insisted by the plaintiff in error, that the control of the fisheries of Buzzard's Bay is, by the Constitution
of the United States, exclusively with the United States, and
that the statute of Massachusetts is repugnant to that Constitution and to the laws of the United States.
In ,Dunham v. .amphere, 3 Gray, 268, it was held, (Chief
Justice Shaw delivering the opinion of the court,) that in the
distribution of powers between the general and State governments, the right to the fisheries and the power to regulate the
fisheries on the coasts and in the tide-waters of the State,
were left, by the Constitution of the United States, with the
States, subject only to such powels as Congress may justly

MAHNCESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion ,of the Court.

exercise in the regulation of commerce, foreign and domestic.
In the present case the court below was asked to reconsider
that decision, mainly on the ground that the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the courts of the United States was
not considered in the opinion, and that the recent decisions of
the Supreme Court of the United States, on the power of
Congress to regulate commerce, required that the decision be
reconsidered; but the court stated that no recent decisions
of this court had been cited which related to the regulation
of fisheries within the territorial tide-waters of a State, and
that the decisions of this court which related to that- subject
did not appear to be in conflict with the decision in Dunham
v. Zamphere, and that it never had been decided anywhere
that the regulation of the fisheries within the territorial limits
of a State was a regulation of commerce.
It is further contended that by the Constitution of the
United States the judicial power of the United States extends
to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and is
exclusive; that this case is within such jurisdiction; and that
therefore, the courts of Massachusetts have no jurisdiction over
it. In JfcCreadyv.Tirginia,94U. S. 391, the question involved
was, whether the State of Virginia could prohibit the citizens
of other States from planting oysters in Ware River, a stream
in Virginia where the tide ebbed and flowed, when her own
citizens had that privilege. In that case it was said, that the
principle had long been settled in this court, that each State
*owns the beds of all tide-waters within its jurisdiction, unless
they have been granted away; .and that, in like manner, the
States own the tide-waters themselves -and the fish in them,
so far as they are capable of ownership while running; and
this court added, in its opinion: "The title thus held is subject
to the paramount right of navigation, the regulation of which,
in respect to foreign and interstate commerce, has been granted
to the United States. There has been, however, no such grant
of power over the fisheries. These remain under the exclusive
control of the State, which has consequently'the right, in its
discretion, to appropriate its tide-waters and their beds to be
used by its p5eople as a common for taking and cultivating fish,

OCTOBEI

TERtM, 1890.

Opinion of the Court.

so far gs it may be done without obstructing navigation. Such
an approoriation is in effect nothing more than a regulation of
the use by the people of their common property. The right
which the people of the State thus acquire comes not from
their citizenship alone, but froin their -qitizenship and property
combined. It is, in fact, a property right, and not a. mere
privilege or immunity of citizenshiip."
In smith v. ffaryland, IS How. 71, 74, a vessel licensed to
be employed in the coasting trade and fisheries, was seized by
the sheriff of Anne Arundel County in Maryland, while
engaged in dredging for oysters in Chesapeake Bay, in violation of a statute of -Maryland enacted for the purpose of
preventing the destruction of oysters in the waters of that
State; and the questions presented were whether that statute
was repugnant to the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States which grant to Congress the power to regulate
commerce, or to those which declare that the judicial power of
the United States shall extend to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, or to those which declare that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States. Mr. Justice Curtis,
in delivering the opinion of this court, said: "Whatever soil
below low-water mark is the subject of exclusive property
and ownership, belongs to the State on whose maritime border
and within whose territory it lies, subject to any lawful grants
of that soil by the State, or the sovereign power which governed its territory, before the declaration of independence.
Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; XMa rin v. TWaddell, 16 Pet.
367; Den v. The Jersey Co., 15 How. 426. But this soil is
held by the State, not only subject to, but in some sense in
trust for, the enjoyment of certain public rights, among which
is the common liberty of taking fish, as well shell-fish as floating fish." He also said that the statute of Mfaryland does
"not touch the subject of the common liberty of taking
oysters, save for the purpose of guarding it from injury, to
whomsoever it inay belong, and by whomsoever it may be
enjoyed. Whether this liberty belongs exclusively to the
citizens of the State of Maryland, or may lawfully be.enjoyed

MANCHESTER v. 'MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

in common by all citizens of the United States; whether this
public use may be restricted by the State to its own citizens
or a part of them, or by force of the Constitution of the
United States must remain common to all citizens of the
United States; whether the national government, by a treaty
or act of Congress, can grant to foreigners the right to -participate therein;, or what, in general, are the limits of the
trust upon which the State holds this soil, or its power to
define and control that trust, are matters wholly without the
scope of this case, and upon which we give no opinion." Upon
the question of the admiralty jurisdiction, he said: "But we
consider it to have been settled by this court, in Ulited States
v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, that this clause in the Constitution
did not affect the jurisdiction, nor the legislative power of the
States, over so much of their territory as lies below high-water
mark, save that they parted with the power so to legislate
as to donflict with the admiralty jurisdiction or laws of the
United States. As this law conflicts neither with the admiralty jurisdiction'of 'any court of the United States conferred
by Congress, nor with any law of Congress whatever, we are
of opinion it is not repugnant to this clause of the Constitution." The court also held that the act was not repugnant to
the clause of the Constitution which conferred upon Congress
the power to regulate commerce, and that the enrolment and.
license of the vessel gave to the plaintiff in error no right to
violate the statute of Maryland. It is said in the opinion that
-C"
no qu~stion was made in the court below whether the place
in question be within the territory of 'the State. The law is,
in terms , limited to the waters of the State;" and the question, therefore, did not arise "whether a voyage of a vessel,
licensed and enrolled for the coasting trade, had been interrupted' by force of a law of a State while on the high seas,
and out of the territorial. jurisdiction of such State." The
dimensions of Chesapeake Bay do not appear in the report of
the case but it has been said that this bay is "twelve miles
across at the ocean.'
1 Bish. Crim. Law, § 105. It is a bay
considerably larger than Buzzard's Bay, and is not wholly
within the State of Maryland, although at the point where

OCTOBER, TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Anne Arundel County bounds upon it it is wholly in that
State. Haney v. Compton, 'I Vroom, (36 N. J. Law,) 507;
Corfteld v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371; Weston v. SafTrson, 8
Cush. 347; S. C. 54 Am. Dec. 764; .Mahlerv. -Norwich & -New
York Transportation Co., 35 N. Y. 352; United States v.
Smiley, 6 Sawyer, 640.
In the case of Stockton v. Baltimore & _YT.Y.R. Co., 32 Fed.
Rep. 9, in the Circuit Court for the District of New Jersey,
Mr. Justice Bradley shows clearly that there is no necessary
conflict between the right of the State to regulate the fisheries
in a given locality and the right of the United States to regulate commerce and navigation in the same locality. He says
that, prior to the Revolution, the shore and lands under water
of the navigable streams and waters of the Province of New
Jersey belonged to the King of Great Britain, and, after the
conquest, those lands were held by the State, as they were by
the King, in trust for the public uses of navigation and fishery.
He adds: "It is true that to utilize the fisheries, especially
those of shell-fish, it was necessary to parcel them out to particular operators. . . . The power to regulate commerce
is the basis of the power to regulate navigation and navigable
waters and streams. . . . So wide and extensive is the
6peration of this power that no State can place any obstruction in or upon any navigable waters against the will of Congrdss." The doctrine has always been firmly maintained by
this court, that whenever a conflict arises bet'ween a State and
the United States, as to the regulation of commerce or navigation, the authority of the latter is supreme and controlling.
Under the grant by the Constitution of judicial power to the
United States in all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and under the rightful legislation of Congress, personal
suits on maritime contracts or for maritime torts can be maintained in the state courts; and the courts of the United States,
merely by virtue of this grant of judicial power, and in the
absence of legislation by Congress, have no criminal jurisdiction whatever. The criminal jurisdiction of. the courts of the
United States is wholly derived from the statutes of the United
States. Butler v. Boston & Savannah Steamship Co., 130 U. S.

MANCHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

527; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; The Eagle, 8 Wall. 15; Leon
v. Galceran,11 Wall. 185; Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall.
522; S. C. 9 R. I. 419; Schoonmaker v. Gilmore, 102 U. S.
118; Insurance Co. v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1 ; Jones v. United
States, 137 U. S. 202, 211. In each of the cases of United
States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, and of Commonwealth v.
Peters, 12 Met. 387, the place where the offence was committed was in Boston Harbor; and it was held to be within,
the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, according to the meaning
of the statutes of the United States which punished certain
offences comihitted upon the high seas or in any river, haven,
basin or bay "out of the jurisdiction of any particular State."
The test applied in Commonwealth v. Peters, which was decided in the year 1847, was that the place was within a bay
"not so wide but that persons and objects on the one side can
be discerned by the naked eye by persons on the opposite side,"
and was therefore within the body of a county. In United
States v. Bevans, Marshall, C. J., said: "The jurisdiction of a
State is coextensive with its territory; coextensive with its
legislative power. The place described is unquestionably
within the original territory of Massachusetts. It is then
within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts, unless that jurisdiction has been ceded to the United States."
If the place
where the offence charged in this case was committed is within the general jurisdiction of Massachusetts, then, according to
the principles declared in Smith v. 2laryland,the statute in
question is not repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States.
It is also contended that the jurisdiction of a State as between it and the United States must be confined to the body
of counties; that counties must be defined according to the
customary English usage at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution of the United States; that by this usage counties
were bounded by the margin of the open sea; and that, as to
bays and arms of the sda extending into the land, only such
or such parts were included in counties as were s6 narrow that
objects could be distinctly seen. from one shore to the other by
the naked eye. But there is no indication that the customary

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Fawof England in regard to the boundaries of counties wits
adopted by the Constitution of the United States as a measure
to determine the territorial jurisdiction of the States. The
extent of the territorial jurisdiction of Massachusetts over the
seA adjacent to its coast is that of. an independent nation; and,
except so far as any right of control over this territory has
been granted to the United States, this control remai,s ,vifli
the State. In United States v. Bevans, Marshall, C. J., in the
opinion, asks the following questions: "Can the cession of all
eases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction be construod into
cession of the waters on which those cases may arise?"
"As the powers of the respective governments now stand, if
two citizens of Massachusetts step into shallow water when
the tide flows, and fight a duel, are they not' within -the jurisdiction, and punishable by the laws, of Massachusetts? " The*
statutes of the United States define and punish but few offences
-on the high seas, and, unless other offences when committed
in the sea near the coast can be punished by the States, there
is a large immunity from punishment for acts which ought to
-be punishable as criminal. Within what are generally recogmized as the territorial limits of States by the law of nations,
a State can define its boundaries on the sea and the boundaries
of its counties; and by this test the Commonwealth of Massachusetts-can include Buzzard's Bay within the limits of its
counties.
The statutes of IMassachusetts, in regard to bays at least,
make definite boundaries vhich, before the passage of the
statutes, were somewhat indefinite; and Rhode Island and
some other States have passed similar statutes defining their
boundaries. Public Statutes of Rhode Island, 1882, c. 1, §§ 1,
2; c. 3, § 6 ; Gould on Waters, § 16 and note. The waters
of Buzzard's Bay are, of course, navigable waters of the United
States, and the jurisdiction of Massachusetts over them is
necessarily limited, Commonwealth v. Zing, 150 Mass. 221;
but there is no occasion to consider the power of the United
States to regulate or control, either by treaty or legislation,
the fisheries in these waters, because there are no existing
treaties or acts of Congress which relate to the menhaden fish.

MANOHESTER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

eries within such a bay. The rights granted to British subjects by the treaties of June 5, 1854,' and May 8,1871,.to take
fish upon the shores of the United States, had expired before
the statute of Massachusetts (St. 1886, c. 192) was passed which
the defendant is charged with violating. The Fish Commission was instituted "for the protection and preservation of the
food fishes of the coast of the United States." Title 51 of
the Revised Statutes relates solely to food fisheries, and- so
does the act of 1887. Nor are we referred to any decision
which holds that the other acts of Congress alluded to apply
to fisheries for menhaden, which is found as a fact in this case
not to be a food fish, and to be only valuable for the purpose of
bait and of manufacture into fish oil.
The statute of Massachusetts which the defendant is charged
with violating is, in terms, confined to waters " within the jurisdiction of this Commonwealth;" and it was evidently passed
for the preservation of the fish, and makes no discrimination
in favor of citizens of Massachusetts and against citizens
of other States. If there be a liberty of fishing for swimming fish in the navigable waters of.the United States common to the inhabitants or the citizens of the United States,
upon which we express no opinion, the statute may well be
considered as an impartial and reasonable regulation of this
liberty; and the subject is one which a State may well be permitted to regulate within its territory, in the absence of any
regulation by the United States. The preservation of fish,
even although they are not used as food for human beings, but
as food for other fish which are so used, is for the common
benefit; and we are of opinion that the statute is not repugnant to the Constitution and the laws of the United States.
It may be observed, that § 4398 of the IRevised Statutes,
(a reenactment of § 4 of the joint resolution of February 9,
1871,) provides as follows, in regard to the Commissioner of
Fish and Fisheries: "The commissioner may take or cause to
be taken at all times, in the waters of the seacoast of the
United States, where the tide ebbs and flows, and also in the
waters of- the lakes, such fish or specimens thereof as may in
his judgment, from timb to time, be needful or proper for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

conduct of his duties, any law, custom, or usage of any State
to the contrary notwithstanding." This enactment may not
improperly be construed as suggesting that, as against the
law of a State, the Fish Commissioner might not otherwise
have the right to take fish in places covered by the state law.
The pertinent observation may.be made that, as Congress
does not assert, by legislation, a right to control pilots in the
bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports of the United States,
but leaves the regulation of that matter to the States, Cooley
v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, so, -if it does not assert
by affirmative legislation its right or will to assume the control of menhaden fisheries in such bays, the right to control
such fisheries must remain with the State which contains such
bays.
We do not consider the question whether or not Congress
would have-the right to control the menhaden fisheries which
the statute of Massachusetts assumes to control; but we mean
to say only that, as the right of control exists in the State in
the absence of the affirmative action of Congress taking such
control, the fact that Congress has never assumed the control
of such fisheries is persuasive evidence that the right to control them still remains in the State.
Judgment afirmed.

ETHERIDGE v. SPERRY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 186. Submitted March 2, 1891. - Decided March 23,1891.

Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334, affirined on the point that a suit prosecuted in
the state courts to the highest court of such State against a marshal
of the United States for trespass, who defends himself on the ground
that the'acts complained of were performed by him under a writ of attachment from the proper federal court, presents a case for a writ of
error to this court, when the final decision of that court is against the
validity of the authority thus set up by the marshal.
Following the Supreme Court of Iowa in its construction of the local law
of that State this court holds that a mortgage of a stock of goods in a

