OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

which they would have manufactured, and in excluding the
evidence offered in support of the claim therein set up. Tested
by them, such losses were, in our opinion, rather remote and
speculative than direct and immediate, resulting from the
breach alleged. There was no stipulation id the contract that
the defendants should make profits on flour from the wheat
ground up by the machinery which the plaintiff contracted to
furnish and erect in the mill. Nor were there any special
circumstances attending the transaction from which an understanding between the parties could be inferred that the plaintiff was to make good any loss of profits incurred by a delay
in furnishing and putting up such machinery, according to the
terms of the contract.
,We see no error in the judgment of the court below prejudicial to the plaintiffs in error, and it is

Afflvned.

BAYYNE v. WIGGINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 151.

Argued January 20, 1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

If, after an oral agreement for the sale of land, the purchaser executes a
deed, describing the land by metes and bounds, but insufficiently acknowledged to pass title, and sends that deed to the vendor in a letter stating
the terms of payment in cash and notes, and requesting payment accordingly; and the purchaser replies by lette-, containing a draft of a similar
deed with a sufficient acknowledgment, requesting that it be executed
instead of the other, and promising, on receipt of it, to " forward money,
notes and- old deed;" the two letters, and the deed inclosed in the first
letter, together constitute a sufficient memorandum in writing to take
the contract out of the statute of frauds.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. -M. F. Elliott for plaintiffs in error. -r.
and -Mr. F. .Watrous were also on the brief.

1R. Brown

BAYNE v. WIGGINS.
Opinion of the 'Court.

XA. S. A. Davenyort for defendants in error.
Mia. JusTric

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of assumpsit by D. B. Wiggins and
Jane MJ. Wiggins, his wife, citizens of INew York, against S.'
G. Bayne, J. M. Fuller and T. J. Melvin, citizens of Pennsylvania.
The declaration alleged that on' November 21, 1883, Mrs.
Wiggins sold, and the defendants agreed to buy, a tract of
land, owned by her, and situated in Lafayette township and

McKean County in the State of Pennsylvania, for the price of
$10,000, payable one-half on deliver)y of the deed, one fourth
in three months and the other fourth in six months, with
interest; and that on November 28, 1883, she delivered to
them a good and sufficient deed of the land, and possession of
the same.
The evidence introduced by the plaintiffs at the trial was to
the following effect:
Wiggins and wife .resided near Buffalo in New York; and
she was seized of the land in question under a recorded deed.
On November 21, 1883, at Bradford in Pennsylvania, and
in the office of the First National Bank of Bradford, of which
Bayne was president and Fuller vice-president, Wiggins made
an oral agreement with Bayne and Fuller to sell the land for
the price of $10,000, half in cash (of which the sum of $250
was at once paid to him) and the other half in notes payable
in three and six months, with interest; and the following
memorandum of their agreement was drawn up by Bayne,
signed by his direction by the cashier of the bank, and delivered to Wiggins:
"Bradford, Pa., November 21, 1883. Received $4750 from
Bayne, Fuller and Melvin, which is the cash payment on a
lot of 70 acres of land sold to them by D. B. Wiggins for
$10,000; the balance to be-paid in notes and money, as agreed
on by both parties. I am to remit this money and the notes
spoken of to said D. B. Wiggins on his for.warding a good
deed of said land. The notes are to be $2500 at three months

OCTOBER TERMN, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and $2500 at 6 months, both with interest. W. W. Bell,
Cashier."
Melvin was not present at that time, but afterwards admitted, in conversation with Wiggins and another person, that
Bayne, Fuller and himself were the purchasers; and Bell
acted as their agent, and one RIayes at Buffalo as the plaintiffs'
agent, throughout the subsequent transactions.
On November 23, Wiggins and wife executed at Buffalo a
deed to Bayne, Fuller and Melvin, dated November 22, of the
land, describing it fully by metes and bounds, and expressed
to be in consideration of the payment of $10,000; and acknowledged it before a notary public. But that deed was
insufficient, under the law of Pennsylvania, to pass the title,
because the notary's certificate.did not state that he had made
known its contents to the wife. Penn. Stat. February 24,
1770, ยง 2, 3; 1 Dall. Laws, 536, 537; 1 Purdon's Digest (11th
ed.) 568, 569; Watson v. Xercer, 6 Sergeant & :Rawle, 49;
JIornbeck v. Autual Building & Loan Association, 88 Penn.
St. 64; Enterprise fT'nsit Company v. Sheedy, 103 Penn. St.
492.
On the same day, Hayes sent that deed to Bell in a letter,
saying: "I enclose for collection and remittance deed of
J. M. and D. B. Wiggins, for which please remit us your draft
on New York, $4750, and two notes given by Bayne, Fuller
and Melvin, $250 each, at 3 and 6 months, with interest, to
order D. B. Wiggins."
On Saturday, November 24, -Bellreplied to Hayes: "Yours
of 23d inst. is at hand. The search is taking longer than
expected, but will probably be completed by Monday."
On Tuesday, November 27, Bell wrote to Hayes, inclosing
an unsigned deed, substantially similar to the-first one, except
that the certificate of 'acknowledgment was according to the
law of Pennsylvania; and saying in his letter: "I enclose a
deed that Bayne, Fuller and Melvin's attorney wishes executed
in place of the one sent by you, on receipt of which I will
forward money, notes and old deed. This is a Pennsylvania
form, and the other is a New York one."
On November 28, Wiggins and wife signed this deed, and

BAYNE

v. WIGGINS.

Opinion of the Court.

he sent it through Hayes to Bell; and it came back on No.
vember 29, together with the first deed, and a letter from Bell
to Hayes, which was given in evidence, dated November 29,
in which Bell said: "By request of Bayne, Fuller and Melvin
I return deed of D. B. Wiggins to you. Their attorney has
written Mr. Wiggins giving the reason for so doing."
There was also given in evidence a letter, dated November
27, and postmarked Bradford, November 29, to Wiggins from
the defendants' attorney, saying: "Bayne, Fuller and Melvin
decline absolutely to purchase the 80 acres of land in Lafayette,
this county, and ask you at once [to] refund the money paid
and return receipt given. They have been put in possession of
the facts in detail as to the means used by yourself in collusion
with others to try and induce them to make the purchase.
In addition to this the title to the land is not good, and they
decline to accept the deed offered and have directed the same
to be returned. Prompt action on your part is demanded.
If you do not at once return the money and receipt, I have
advised them to ,promptly take such action as the facts now
in their possession certainly justify."
On November 30, .Wiggins went to Bradford, saw Bayne
and Fuller, tendered them the second deed, and demanded the
money and notes, in accordance with the original contract,
and they refused to give them or to accept the deed.
The defendants relied on the provisions of the statute of
frauds of Pennsylvania, copied in the margin ;' and requested
1 By the statute of Pennsylvania of March 21, 1772, "1All leases, estates,
interests of freehold or term of years, or any uncertain interest, of, in or
out of any messuages, manorg, lands, tenements or hereditaments, madeor
created by livery and seisin only, or by parol, and not put in writing and
signed by the parties so making or creating the same, or their agents thereunto lawfully authorized by writing, shall have the force and effect of leases.
or estates at will only, and shall not, either in law or equity, be deemed or
taken to have any other or greater force or effect, any consideration for
making any such parol leases or estates, or any former law or usage, to the
contrary notwithstanding; except, nevertheless, all leases not exceeding
the term of three years from the making thereof. And moreover, no leases,
estates or interests either of freehold or terms of years, or any uncertain
interest of, in, to or out of any messuages, manors, lands, tenements or

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the court to instruct the jury that "the contract for the sale
of the premises described in the plaintiffs' declaration being
in parol, and there being no evidence that any possession
thereof was taken by the defendants under and pursuant to

the contract, there can be no recovery of the purchase price
by the vendor, unless the contract was fully executed by the

delivery of a good and indefeasible deed for the land accepted
by the vendees."
The court instructed the jury accordingly, but with this
qualification, that if the first deed, the one of November 22,
1883, was accepted by the defendants, and at their request the
plaintiffs executed and on November 28, 1883, transmitted to
Bell a second deed, and on November 30, 1883, such second
deed was tendered by the plaintiffs to two of the defendants,
namely, Bayne and Fuller, this was a sufficient execution of
the contract, notwithstanding the first deed was defective.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs in the sum of
$11,300, upon which judgment was rendered; and the defendants, having duly excepted to the instructions, sued out this
writ of error.
It may be admitted that the original memorandum of November 21, signed by Bell in the presence and by the authority
or assent of both parties, which stated a sale by Wiggins to
the defendants of "a lot of seventy acres of land," and specified the terms of payment in cash and notes, was not of itself
a sufficient memorandum to satisfy the statute of frauds,
because it in no way described or.gave any means of identifying the land sold.
The deed to the defendants, executed by the plaintiffs on
November 23, was not acknowledged so as to take effect as a
conveyance, nor accepted as such by the defendants. But it
contained a full description of the land by metes and bounds;
and it was sent to the defendants' agent by the plaintiffs'
hereditaments, shall at any time be assigned, granted or surrendered, unless
it be by deed or note in writing, signed by the party so assigning, granting
or surrendering the same, or their agents thereto lawfully authorized by
writing, or by act and operation of law." 1 Dall. Laws, 640; 1 Purdon's
Digest (lth ed.) 830, 831.

BAY-NE v. WIGGINS.
Opinion of the Court.

agent in a letter demanding payment of part of the price in
money, and of the rest in notes, in the terms of the original
memorandum. The defendants' agent replied on the next day
that he had received that letter; and three days later, in further responsb, wrote another letter, inclosing a form of deed
substantially like the first one, but with a sufficient certificate
of acknowledgment, requesting that this deed might be executed instead of the other, and promising, on receipt of it, to
"forward money, notes and old deed."
This letter of the defendants' agent, read in connection with
the other writings which had passed between the parties,
unequivocally refers to the first deed, which fully described the
land sold, and to the money and notes to be given in payment
therefor, as specified in the letter which inclosed that deed.
In the light of the undisputed facts, its language could apply
to nothing else. It thus, by necessary reference, embodies-a
definite statement of the contract actually made by the parties, both as to the property to be Jonveyed, and as to the
terms of payment; and, taken together with that deed and
that letter, constitutes a sufficient memorandum, signed by
both parties or their agents, to take the ca~e out of the statute
of frauds. Beckwith *v. Talbot, 95 IU.S. 289; Ridgway v.
Wharton, 6 I. L. Cas. 238; .McFarson'8Apeal, 11 Penn. St.
503, 510; Tripp v. Bishop, 56 Penn. St. 424.
For this reason, the defendants cannot have been prejudiced
by the instructions given to the jury; and it becomes unnecessary to consider whether, under the statute of frauds of Pennsylvania, as expounded by the Supreme Court of that State,
the memorandum of a contract for the sale of land need be
signed by the buyer, as well as by the seller, in order to maintain such an action as this. See Browne on Statute of Frauds
(4th ed.) ยง 226, and cases there cited.
Judgment afirmed.

