WESTER1N ELECTRIC CO. v. LARUE.
Statement of the Case.

WESTERN ELECTRIC COMPA-NY v. LARUE.
APPEAL :FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 279. Argued April 1,1891.-Decided April 13, 1891.
A telegraph sounder constr,,cted under letters patent No. 352,317, granted
November 9, 1886, to Charles D. Haskins, infringes the third claim of
letters patent No. 270,767 for a new and useful improvement in telegraph
keys, viz., "The combination, in a telegraph key, of the lever fulcrumed upon the torsional spring, with the adjusting screws H H1, for
regulating the amplitude of the lever movement and the retractile resistance of the torsion-spring, substantially as described."
While the promotion of an old device, such, for instance, as a torsional
spring, to a new sphere of action, in which it performs a new function,
involves invention, the transfer or adaptation of the same device to a
similar sphere of action, where it performs substantially the same function, does not involve invention.
Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330, affirmed and applied.

Tnis was a bill in equity brought by LaRue, plaintiff in the
court below, for the infringement of letters patent No. 270,767, issued to Edgar A. Edwards, January 16, 1883, for a new
and useful improvement in telegraph keys.
In the specification the patentee stated that his invention
related "to telegraph keys or instruments used for transmitting telegraphic signals, and is an improvement on the wellknown Morse key, being in substituting for the trunnions or
pivots upon which the lever vibrates a torsional spring or strip
of metal." After describing the mechanism, as illustrated by
his drawings, he made a further statement, as follows: "When
a telegraph key is constructed as herein described, the side or
lateral movement is reduced to a minimum. The adjustment
of trunnion set screws is obviated. The -torsional metal
springs will not wear out, but last indefinitely. The adjusting
screws H H' serve the purpose of regulating the amplitude of
the lever movement, and also serve the purpose of regulating
the retractile resistance of the torsion-spring. By this arrangement a secondary retractile spring to resist the downward

(302

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

movement of the contact-lever is not necessary. In ordinary
telegraph keys a retractile spring is always supplied to regulate the force required to depress the lever, as well as pivots or
trunnions on which the lever vibrates. In my invention the
torsional spring not only takes the place of the pivots or
trunnions, but when used in connection with the adjusting
screws H H', takes the place of the ordinary retractile spring.
The construction of the key is thus simplified and cheapened
by discarding one of the hitherto necessary features, viz., the
retractile springs. I do not limit myself to the application of
torsional springs to telegraph keys alone, as it is obvious the
torsional strip or spring may be applied to other electrical
instruments. Thus it may replace the pivots or trunnions of
the relay and sounder."
The defences were, in brief, anticipation and non-infringement. Upon a preliminary hearing in the court below an injunction was granted, 28 Fed. Rep. 85, and upon the final
hearing, 31 Fed. Rep. 80, plaintiff obtained a decree perpetuating the injunction, and for $110 damages for the infringement
of the third claim 'of the patent, which reads as follows:
"The combination, in a telegraph key of the lever fulcrumed
upon the torsional spring, with the adjusting screws H H', for
regulating the amplitude of the lever movement and the retractile resistance of the torsion-spring, substantially as described." From this decree an appeal was taken to this court.
J'.

George P. Barton forappellant.

-M'. Arthur v. Briesen for appellee.
MR. JnsTic, Bnowx delivered the opinion of the court.
The invention covered by this patent consists in the use in a
telegraph'key of a flat strip of metal supported at either end
upon posts by means of adjustable screws and to the centre of
which the lever is fastened. The torsional action of this piece
of metal serves as a spring support for the lever. The main
object of the invention is the substitution of this torsional spring
for the ordinary pivotal support previously used, which consisted

'WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. v. LIARUE.
Opinion of the Court.

of tapering pivots or gudgeons projecting from the sides of
the lever into the bearings. The testimony indicates that the
pivots require very exact construction and adjustment; that
they are apt to wear loose in their sockets; and that inexperienced operators are apt to turn the screws, which carry these
sockets too far or not far enough, thereby rendering the motion of the lever either too difficult or too easy. For this somewhat objectionable pivotal support, the patentee substitutes a
flat torsional spring, fastened at either end by ordinary screws
to the top of posts or supports. Upon the middle of this spring
is riveted the lever of the key, which carries regulating screws
for controlling the extent of its vibrations. The specification
describes the manner in which, by means of this torsional
spring, the lever is enabled to play freely between its points of
contact without the use of the ordinary retractile spring.
The defendant is making a telegraph sounder under letters
patent No. 352,311, granted November 9, 1886, to Charles D.
Haskins, an employs of the defendant company, who had previously superintended the construction of keys under the direction of plaintiff LaRue, and was consequently familiar with
his device. In this patent Haskins states the object of his
invention to be "to provide convenient means for supporting
the armature and armature-lever in the proper position relative
to the electro-magnet and to dispense with the employment of
trunnions or a pivoted support," and admits that "it has heretofore been proposed to support a lever of a key or an armaThe following extracts
ture upon a flat torsional spring:"
from his specification (omitting the letters) are pertinent in
connection with the question of infringement: "A spring or
plate of resilient metal is attached at its central part to the
lever by means of a screw, or in any other convenient manner;
the ends of this spring are respectively secured to the posts by
screws.

.

.

.

The lever is preferably not dependent for

its retractile force upon the [torsional] spring, although it may
be so, but is assisted by a coil spring extending from an arm
secured to the lever, preferably immediately beneath the spring
0. . . . The invention has been described in connection
with a telegraphic sounder; but it is evident that thd torsion-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

spring may be applied to the armature-lever of any telegraphic
receiving-instrument, or to the lever of any telegraphic key,
without departing from the spirit of the invention." The
"torsional spring," or, as he sometimes terms it, the "flat
spring,'? or "flat supporting-spring," is made an element in
each claim of his patent.
So far as the testimony discloses, LaRue was. the first to
apply the principle of the torsional spring to telegraphic instruments, although springs of similar description had been
previously used in. clocks, doors, and perhaps some other articles of domestic furniture. Prior to his invention, telegraph
keys were pivoted upon trunnions, and were regulated in their
movements either by. a coil spring, as shown in the bld style of
Morse key, or by a flat steel spring to which they were riveted,
as in the old style of Western Union key, or the key itself was
constructed in the form :of a flat spring riveted at one end to
the bed or plate, as shown in the Warner Spring Lever Key
and in the Exhibit Spring Lever Key.
The Pole Changer, which is an instrument used by telephone
companies for the purpose of calling up their subscribers, consists of a lever which vibrates back and forth by the aid of a
flat spring, to which it is attached in much the same manner
as the pendulum of an old-fashioned clock is connected with
the spring upon which it swings. There is also a flat piece of
metal which is attached to the armature, and stands vertically
when the instrument lies upon the table, and which has apparently a certain torsional action; but it is evidently not depended upon for anything more than a supporting fulcrum
for the armature and lever. It is stated by experts to exert
some retractile force, but not enough to make the instrument
operate in the way it.is designed to.
The Exhibit Adjustable .Torsional Spring is not the flat
spring of the patent, nor has it the adjusting screws, nor the
supporting posts with the fastening screws, nor in fact any of
the features of the patent in suit. It is merely a wire attached
to two supports, across the centre of which, between the supports, a bar or lever extends, which is attached to the wire and
is supported thereby. But the ends of this wire pass through

WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. v. LARUE.
Opinion of the Court.

comparatively large holes in the end supports, and thereby have
considerable freedom of movement. The very fact that the
holes are larger than the wire indicates that the wire can exert
no torsional force. It is .a crude and apparently imperfect device, and contains no suggestion of the fiat torsional spring
peculiar to the patent in suit. Indeed, there is nothing in any
of these exhibits which shows the use of a torsional spring in a
telegraphic instrument, and while the invention does not seem
to be one of great importance, we think the adaptation of: this
somewhat unfamiliar spring to this new use, and its consequent
simplification of mechanism, justly entitles the patentee to the
rights of an inventor.
The question of infringement turns upon the construction to
be given to the third claim of the patent, which is, in terms,
for the combination, in a telegraph key, of a lever fulerumed
upon a torsional spring, with adjusting screws for regulating
its movement. If this claim be limited strictly to a telegraph
key, by which is understood the instrument which is used at
the office of transmission for sending off messages, then it is
clear that defendant does not infringe, since it makes use of
a similar combination only in connection with a telegraph
sounder, or instrument used at the receiving office for delivering or enunciating the message. It is evident, however, that
both of these patentees understood that the combination described in their patents could be used in either connection,
since Edwards says in his specification that he does not-limit
himself " to the application of torsional springs to telegraph
keys alone, as it is obvious the torsional strip or spring may be
applied to other electrical instruments. Thus it may replace
the pivots or trunnions of the relay and sounder." Haskins
also admits that "it has heretofore been proposed to support a
lever of a key or an armature upon a fiat torsional spring,"
and says that his "torsion-spring may be applied to the armature-lever of any telegraphic receiving-instrument, or to the
lever of any telegraphic key, without departing from the spirit
of the invention."
The use of the combination is practically the same in both
instances. There are the same elements of a lever fulcrumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

upon a torsional spring, and adjusting screws for regulating
the amplitude of the lever movement, and the retractile resistance of the torsional spring. They are used for purposes
which differ principally in name. The key transmits the message; the sounder receives it. The material part of the key is
a lever which completes and breaks an electric circuit; the
sounder consists merely of a lever which completes and breaks
a magnetic circuit. In both cases, the lever is riveted to and
supported by a flat torsional spring, which is itself supported
at its ends upon upright posts, to which it is fastened by
screws. The object of the spring in each instance is to allow
the lever to play back and forth between the exceedingly
narrow limits fixed by the' set screws. The employment of
this spring in connection with the sounder is such a new or
double use as would occur. to an ordinary mechanic who had
seen the Edwards key in operation. It brought into play no
faculty of invention. While the promotion of an old device,
such, for instance, as a torsional spring, to a new sphere of
action, in which it performs a new function, involves invention,
the transfer or adaptation of the same device to a similar sphere
of action, where it performs substantially the same function,
does not involve invention.
Against this new and analogous use of his combination, the
patentee is as much entitled to protection as if the word
"sounder" had been expressly inserted in his claim. Since
the case of Winans v. Denmead, 15 How. 330, it has been
the settled doctrine of this court, as expressed in the opinion
of -Mr. Justice Curtis, p. 343, that "the patentee, having described his invention and shown its principles, and claimed it
in that form which most perfectly embodies it, is, in contemplation of law, deemed to claim every form in which his invention may be copied, unless he manifests an intention to disclaim
some of these forms." This is practically restated in different
language in subsequent cases, and amounts to a declaration
that the application of the patented device to another use,
where such new applicaion does not involve the exercise of
the inventive faculty, is as much an infringement as though
the new machine were an exact copy of the old. Sewall v.

WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. v. LARUE.
Opinion of the Court.

Jones, 91 U. S. 171, 183; lowe v. Abbott, 2 Story, 190; Warter v. Potter,Webster Pat. Cas. 585.
Some stress is laid by the defendant upon the fact that the
Ccircuit-breaking" lever is made an ingredient of the first,
second and fourth claims of the patent, and that as the
sounder has no circuit-breaking lever, but only an armaturelever, there is no infringement. Assuming, however, what as
a matter of fact seems doubtful, that the lever of the sounder
is not a circuit-breaking lever, the objection loses all its force
in view of the language of the third claim, the only one found
to be infringed, in which the limitation of the circuit-breaking
lever is omitted, and a "lever fulcrumed upon the torsional
spring" is substituted.
The further objection that in the defendant's sounder a
retractile spring is used in aid apparently of the torsional
spring, suggests rather than justifies an argument that the torsional spring is useless, and that the sounder would be inoperative without the retractile spring. If such were the fact, it
would be an excellent reason for discontinuing the use of the
torsional spring, and thereby avoiding beyond all question the
charge of infringing the patent. But, notwithstanding the testimony of Mr. Haskins, that he found the best results to be
obtained when the torsional spring was simply passive, allowing the armature to lie with its own weight upon the magnet,
depending wholly upon the retractile spiral spring underneath
to produce the upward movement, the fact seems to be that
the defendant's sounder will operate about as satisfactorily if
only the torsional spring is used. And even if the defendant
does use the retractile spring in aid of the torsional spring, it
could not thereby escape the charge of infringement. The
object of the torsional spring is not only to do away with the
necessity of a retractile spring, but to substitute for the ordinary pivotal bearings the torsional support. Giving Haskins's
testimony its full weight, it still remains uneontradicted that
he does use the torsional spring as a substitute for the trunnions or pivots theretofore used to support the -lever.
The claim that defendant does not use the adjusting screws
is equally without foundation. Indeed, this suggestion is dis-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1890.

'

.

Syllabus.

posed of by defendant's own expert, who testifies to finding
adjusting screws having a relation to the sounder similar to
that of the screws Hi H' to the lever of the key in the patent,
but he says that in the sounder they did not appear to have
any effect upon the retractile force applied to the lever. It is
evident, on examination, that their functions are practically
the same in every particular.
The last defence of want of utility is also fully met by the
fact that Haskins, an employ6 of the defendant, after the commencement of this suit, took oat the patent for a telegraph
sounder, the main element of which is the torsional. spring of
the Edwards patent, and that defendant, upon the accounting,
stipulated that a decree might be entered for a rbyalty of ten
cents apiece, on eleven hundred sounders made and sold by
the defendant embodying the Edwards invention: Under such
circumstances, it does not lie*in the mouth of the defendant to
claim that the invention is useless. Walker, on Patents, ยง 85 ;
IeInbeuter v. Holthaus, 105 -U.S. 94; -Morgan, v. Seaward,
1 Webster Pat. Cas. 170.
Afirmed.
The decree of the court below is

SEEBERGER v. FARWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1441. Argued March 30, 31, 1891.-Decided April13, 1891.

Under Schedule K of ยง 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by ยง 6 of
the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 509, women's and children's
dress goods, composed of wool and cotton, valued at less than 20 cents
per square yard, and weighing less than 4 ounces to the square yard, the
cotton being carded in with the wool from which the yarn composing
the warp was spun, there being 94 per cent of wool and 6 per cent of
cotton, the cotton being put in to secure a lower classification for duty,
and an ordinary examiner not being able to detect the cotton without a
careful examination, and there being no threads or yarns made wholly of
cotton or other material than wool, are dutiable at 5 cents per square
yard and 35 per cent ad valorem, and not at 9 cents per square yard ane
40 per cent ad valorem.

