NATAL v. LOUISIANA.
Statement of the Case.

over $225,000, and, as it clearly appears that that portion of
the plaintiff's claim was disallowed, there could have been no
prejudice to the defendant.
The principal ground of complaint by the defendant seems
to be that the jury had no basis for finding a verdict for
$10,000, but that their verdict should have been for either
$5000 or $15,000. But this was a question to be reached only
through a motion for a new trial; and we cannot, on this
writ of error, review any error committed in that respect by
the jury, if there were one. Nor can we take cognizance of
the complaint that the court overruled the motion for a new
trial, or that the verdict of the jury was contrary to law and
not warranted by the testimony. The case was fairly submitted to the jury, and the issues involved were passed upon
by them.
As a supersedeas bond was given in this case, and thus the
writ of error has delayed the proceedings on the judgment,
and as it appears to us to have been sued out merely for delay,
we award damages on the amount of the judgment at the rate
of ten per centum, in addition to interest. Rev. Stat. ยง 1010;
Rule 23, subd. 2; Amory v. Amory,91 U. S. 356.
Judgment afflrmed, wit&10 per cent damages, in addition to
interest.

NATAL v. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 2l. Argued and submitted March 30, 1891.-Decided April 13, 1891.
An ordinance passed by the city of New Orleans, under authority conferred
by the legislature of Louisiana, prohibiting the keeping of any private
market within six squares of any public market of the city, under penalty
of being sentenced, upon conviction before a magistrate, to pay a fine of
twenty-five dollars, and to be imprisoned for not more than thirty days
if the fine is not paid, does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

M'r. West Steever (with whom was Mr. J.Hale Sypher on
the brief) for plaintiffs in error.
M .Carleton Runt for defendant in error submitted on his
brief.
M R. JUSTICE

GR&Y delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error were severally complained of, tried,
convicted and sentenced in a recorder's court in the city of
INew Orleans for keeping a private market within six squares
of a public mnarket, in violation of ยง 4 of an ordinance of the
city, copied in the margin,' and passed under the, authority
conferred by the statute of Louisiana of 1878, c. 100, as follows:
1ORDINANCE 4778.
1' That private markets for the sale of meats, fish, vegetables, fruit and
other comestibles may be opened and kept in any portion of the city of
New Orleans, not within ,a radius of six squares of any public market of
said city: Provided, the proprietor of said market pays the license provided therefor, and otherwise complies with the provisions of this ordinance
and other ordinances relating to the same subject matter.
2. That all private markets shall be kept in the lower story of the building
in which they are opened. They shall be thoroughly washed and cleansed
daily, and no meats or other comestibles shall be exposed on the banquettes.
They shall be closed punctually at twelve o'clock meridian of every day.
For any violation of any of the provisions of this section, the person offending shall be liable to a fine of not less than five nor more than twentyfive dollars, to be imposed and collected by the recorder of the district in
which the said market may be situated. In default of the payment of each
and every fine so imposed, the person so defaulting shall be subjected to
imprisonment for a time not to exceed thirty days nor less than five days.
3. That the administrator of commerce shall have full authority by himself or deputy to inspect all private markets at any hour when they may be
open for business, and any refusal by any proprietor of a private market
to permit such inspection shall render him liable to a fine to be imposed
and collected as provided in the preceding section.
4. That no private market shall be permitted within a radius of six
blocks of any public market of the city, as per plan on file in the office of
the administrator of commerce, designating and specifying the same, and
making part of this ordinance; and it shall be the duty of the chief of
police, under the direction of the administrator of commerce, to cause any
private market opened in violation of the provisions of this section to be

NATAL v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

"See. 2. That the city council of the city of New Orleans
be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to make
such arrangements and pass such ordinances for the government and regulation of the private markets in the city of
New Orleans as they in their discretion may deem proper,
and that they be vested with full power to provide for the
enforcement of their said ordinances: Provided, the city
council shall not have the power to prohibit the existence of
private markets under proper regulations.
"Sec. 3. That the said city council may prescribe by ordinance the manner in which such private markets shall be kept,
the portion of the city in which they shall be located, and the
distance which they shall be removed from the public markets,
and shall have power to provide for the enforcement of said
ordinances; provided, no private market shall be established
within a radius of six squares of any public market."
The cases were consolidated, and on appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State the judgments were affirmed. 39 La. Ann.
439.
The plaintiffs in error contended in the recorder's court,
and afterwards assigned for error, that their privileges and
immunities as citizens of the United States had been abridged,
and that they had been deprived of liberty and property without due process of law, and had been denied the equal protection of the laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States.
The case is too plain for discussion. By the law of Louisclosed; and any person opening a private market in violation of the provisions of this section, and within the said prohibited distance, shall be
liable to a fine of twenty-five dollars for each and every offenqe, said fine
to be imposed and collected by the recorder of the district in which said
private market may be situated. In default of the payment of each and
every fine so imposed, the person so defaulting shall be subject to imprisonment for a term not to exceed thirty days or less than five days.
5. That any person on persons applying to the administrator of finance
for a license to keep a private market shall, before obtaining said license,
produce a certificate from the administrator of commerce, showing the
location of said private market, and that all the requirements of this ordinance have-been complied with by the person or persons asking a license.

OCTOBER TERM

1890.

$yllabus.

iana, as in States where the common law prevails, the regulation and control of markets for the sale of provisions, including the places and the distances from each other at which
they may be kept, are matters of municipal police, and may
be intrusted by the legislature to a city council, to be exercised
as in its discretion the public health and convenience may
require. .forano v. .Mayor, 2 La. 217; Pirst funicipality v.
Cutting, 4 La. Ann. 335 ; New Orleansv. Staford, 27 La. Ann.
417; Bush v. Seaury, 8 Johns. 419; Buffalo v. Webster, 10
Wend. 99; NSightingale's Case, 11 Pick. 168; Commonwealt
v. Rice, 9 Met. 253. The ordinance of the city of New Orleans
prohibiting the keeping of a private market within six squares
of any public market of the city, under penalty of a fine of
twenty-five dollars, and of imprisonment for not more than
thirty days if the fine is not paid, was within the authority
constitutionally conferred upon the city council by the legislature of the State. A breach of such an ordinance is one of
those petty offences against municipal regulations of police,
which in Louisiana, as elsewhere, may be punished by summary
proceedings before a magistrate, without trial by jury. Louisiana Constitution of 1852, arts. 103, 124; Constitution of 1868,
arts. 6, 94; State v. Gutierrez, 15 La. Ann. 190; 1ifayor &o.
of .lXonroe v. .Afeuer, 35 La. Ann. 1192; Callan v. Wilson, 127
U. S. 540, 553, 555.
Judgment affirmed.

MASON v. ROBERTSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTHIOT OF NEW YORK.
No. 277. Argued April 1,1891. -Decided

April 13, 1891.

Under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, ยง 6, bichromate of soda is subject to
the duty of twenty-five per cent ad valorem, imposed by ScheduleA upon
"all chemical compounds and salts, by whatever name known;" and is
not subject, by virtue of the similitude clause, to the duty of three cents
per pound, imposed by that schedule on bichromate of potash.

