OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
of the court in Peake v. 2V-ew Orleans, compel an affirmance of
the judgment in the case between the same parties numbered 459,
and by stipulation cases numbered 41 and 460 are to be controlled
by this decision, and the same orders will therefore be entered in
them.
FULLER, C. J., and HARLAN and. LAMAR, JJ., dissent from these
judgments for the .reasons stated in their dissenting opinion in
,.
i
Peake v. New Orleans.
BROWN, J., did not hear the arguments in these cases, and takes
no part in their decision.
Mr. Richard De Gray, Mr. Grover Cleveland and Mr. Thomas J.
Semmes for appellants.
Mr CarleionHunt for appellees.

TIMMONS

.

ELYTON LAND COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT: OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 1325. Submitted March 2, 1891. -Decided March 30, 1891.
In this case the complaint described the defendant as a corporation chartered under the laws of Alabama and doing business in that State, one
of the plaintiffs as a "resident" in North Carolina, and two other plaintiffs as "residents" in South Carolina. An amendment added twelve
plaintiffs with no averments as to citizenship. As the jurisdiction depended upon citizenship; Held, that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction.

MOTION TO DiSmSS OR AFFIRM.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
-Y . Alexander T. Zoudon for the motion.
P.

. H.

,Watts

and .Y.

H. A. Berbert opposing.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FUVLER delivered the opinion of the court
This was an action brought by Margaret C. McElrath, fary
E. McElrath and Linda E. Timmons against the Elyton Land

TIMMONS v. ELYTOK LAND CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Company in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Alabama.
The complaint averred "that Mary E. McElrath is a resident of the State of North Carolina, and that Linda E. Timmons and Margaret Celia McElrath are residents of the State
of South Carolina," and that the defendant "is a corporation
chartered under the laws of the State of Alabama and doing
business within said State."
By the summons, the marshal was commanded "to summon
the Elyton Land-Company, a corporation chartered under the
laws of the State of Alabama, and who is a citizen of the State
of Alabama, to appear

.

.

.

to answer the complaint of

Margaret Celia McElrath and Linda E. Timmons, who are
residents of the county of Spartanburg, State of South Carolina, and Mary E. McElrath, who is a citizen of the State of
North Carolina." The complaint was subsequently amended
by adding the names of twelve other plaintiffs without any
averment as to their citizenship.
In the bill of exceptions, which appears in the record, it is
stated that "the plaintiffs were non-residents of the State of
Alabama."
As the record does not. show that the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction of the suit, which depended upon the citizenship
of the parties, the judgment must be reversed at the costs of
the plaintiffs in error, and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court for further proceedings. 7enard v. Goggan, 121 U. S.
253; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646; Brown v. Reene, 8 Pet.
112; Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S.694.
Reversed.

