ST. LOUIS &c. iAILWAY v. COMMER1CIAL IXS. CO.

223

Syllabus.

Wall. 125; Flandersv. Twieed, 9 Wall. 425; Ins. Co. v. Tweed,
7 Wall. 44; _Xiller v. Life Izs. Co., 12 Wall. 285; Ins. Co. v.
Sea, 21 Wall. 158; fartinton v. Fairbanks,112 U. S. 670;
.Baimondv. Terrebonne Parish,132 U. S. 192; Glenn v. Fant,
134 U. S. 398; Zloyd v. -3fo IMilliams, 137 U. S. 576.
The record raises no questions open to revision by us and
the judgment is
Affl?-ed.

ST. LOUIS, IRON

MOUNTAIN

RAILWAY COMPANY v.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

AND SOUTHERN

COMMERCIAL

OF THE

UNION

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1169. Submitted December 15, 1890.-Decided March 16, 1891.

In the State of Arkansas, foreign insurance companies are governed by the
statute of March 26, 1887, requiring such companies to file with the
auditor of State stipulations for the service of process upon them, and
not by the statute of April 4, 1887, which requires' foreign corporations
to file.such stipulations with the Secretary of State.
The right of an insurer, upon paying for a total loss of the goods insured,
to recover over against a third person responsible for the loss, is derived
by way of subrogation from the assured, and can be enforced in his
right only.
A railroad corporation, which has contracted with a compress company to
receive and transport all cotton brought by its owners to the warehouse
of that company, and neglects to do so, by reason of which, and of the
consequent accumulation of cotton at the waiehouse, so large a mass of
cotton is piled and kept by the compress .companyin the adjoining street,
as from'the danger of taking fire to become a public nuisance, and is
there destroyed by fire from an unknown cause, is not responsible for
the loss to owners of part of such cotton for which it has given no bills
of lading, if it has in fact assumed no custody or control of any of the
cotton, or of the place where it was kept, before it was put upon the
cars; although it has, as a matter of convenience, given to the owners
of other parts of such cotton bills of lading in exchange for the warehouse receipts of the compress company; and although it is prohibited
by statute, under a penalty, from issuing bills of lading, except for goods
actually received into its possession.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Tuis was an action at law, brought September 21, 1889,
against a railroad corporation of Arkansas, by three insurance
companies, corporations of other States or of England, to
recover the sum of $17,000, which the plaintiffs had insured
on 340 bales of cotton to Samuel 0. Smith & Co., the owners
thereof, and had paid to them upon a loss of the cotton by
fire, in consequence (as the complaint alleged) of the defendant's negligence.
A plea of nonjoinder of Samuel 0. Smith & Co. was filed
and overruled, and the defendant. answered to the merits.
The evidence introduced by the plaintiffs at the' trial tended
to prove the following facts:
Before September 20, 1887, the defendant (whose railway
extended from Little Rock in Arkansas across the Arkansas
River to Argenta and beyond) had made an oral contract with
the Union Compress Company (which was engaged in compressing bales of cotton for transportation) to receive all
cotton in bales that might be brought by its owners to the
sheds of the compress company at the foot of Main Street in
Little Rock, and to transport it over its railway across the
Arkansas River to the compress of that company in Argenta,
a distance of a mile and a half, for $2 a carload. Immediately
in front of the sheds was a platform along the railway track,
and habitually used by the compress company for the purpose
of loading cotton on the cars.
While the contract was in force, 340 bales of uncompressed
cotton were placed by Samuel 0. Smith & Co. at the sheds
and in the care and custody of the compress company, which
gave them a receipt stating that the cotton was "received by
the Union Compress Company for compression; storage after
ten days will be charged; not responsible for any loss by fire;"
and afterwards, by reason of an accumulation of cotton in the
sheds, owing to the neglect of the defendant railway company,
though often requested by the compress company, to furnish
transportation according to the contract between them, the
compress company piled and kept these bales and much more
other cotton in the street adjoining.
The defendant railway company, as a matter of convenience

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. COMMERCIAL INS. CO.

225

Statement of the Case.

to all parties, and at the request of owners of cotton, ofteu
gave them, in exchange for the receipts of the compress company, and 'before the cotton was put on the cars by the latter,
through bills of lading to its ultimate destination after being
compressed; and, after so issuing such bills of lading, gave
written notice to the compress company, stating the fact of
their issue, and directing the compress company to ship the
cotton on the railway by a ceftain route and to a certain
address; and the compress company, on receiving such notice,
insured the cotton in behalf of the railway company, and put
the cotton on the cars, compressing it at Argenta for the convenience of further transportation.
The railway company gave such bills of lading for most of,
the other cotton; but it gave no bill of lading for the 340
bales in question; and, unless through its dealings with the
compress company as aforesaid, it in fact exercised no custody
or control of the sheds and the street, or of any of the cotton,
before it was put on the cars by the compress company.
The plaintiffs, on October 17 and 19 and November 11, 1887,
by their agents at Little Rock, without having complied with
the provisions of the statute of Arkansas of April 4, 1887, c135, entitled "An act to prescribe the conditions upon which
foreign corporations may do business -in this State," severally
issued policies of insurance to Smith & Co., amounting in all
to $17,000, on the 340 bales of cotton, describing it as in the
sheds, on the platforin and in the street. The value of these
bales was $18,179.
On November 14, 1887, the cotton piled in the street, including the 340 bales, was wholly destroyed by fire from -an'
unknown cause; and the plaintiffs afterwards paid Smith &
Co. the sums insured.
The defendant requested the court to give, among others,.
the following instructions to the jury:
"5th. If at the time said cotton was burned, on November14, 1SS7, at the foot of Main Street, it was in the custody,.
possession and control of the Union Compress Company, and
upon premises over which the defendant railway company had:
no control, and if it owed no duty as a common carrier ir
VOL. cxxx x-15

OCTOBER TERIMf, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

relation, to said cotton, and if, while in, such custody and control, the cotton was set on fire by the act of some unknown
person, with whom the defendant had no connection and of
whom it had no knowledge, then the defendant railroad comI
pany cannot be held liable in this action."
"11h. If the jury find from the evidence that there was no
contract or arrangement between the railway company and
the compress companf which contemplated the depositing of
cotton,in and upon Main Street, but that the placing of cotton
there and the permitting of it to-be placed there was the sole
act of the compress company and the owners of the cotton,
and that the. railway company had no control over the premises where the cotton was stored, then the defendant is not
liable in this suit, even though the depositing of cotton in and
upon Main Street constituted a public nuisance.
"12th. In order to make the defendant liable for the placing
of cotton in and upon Main Street, the jury must find from
the evidence that the defendant was a party to the arrangement or agreement by which the cotton was deposited in and
upon said street; and the mere fact that an arrangement
existed by which the defendant issued bills of lading for cotton deposited in the compress warehouses and had agreed to
handle the same from said warehouses to Argenta, this fact of
itself will not make the defendant liable for an injury which
would not have happened except for the placing of. cotton on
the street itself."
"14th. If the jury find that the plaintiffs, at the time of the
issue of the policies of insurance introduced in evidence in this.
cause, had not and have never up to this date filed in the office
of the Secretary of State certificates designating an agent upon
whom service of summons and other process may be made, or
certificates stating the principal place of business of each plaintiff in this State, as required by the statute of the State, it
cannot maintain this action."
The court refused to give each of these instructions; and
instructed the jury that, by the agreement between the defendant and the comprdss company, the defendant made the
cotton sheds of that company a receiving station f6r cotton to

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. COMIERCIAL INS. CO.

227

Argumeit for Defendants n Error.

be sent by any one from Little Rock to the compress of that
company at Argenta, and "it was the duty of said defendant
to transport the cotton, thus received at said cotton sheds for
shipment, promptly to Argenta; and that if the defendant
failed to do so, and by reason of the continued reception of
cotton at said. sheds, and the continued giving of bills of lading
therefor as often as demanded by shippers thereof, down to
the day of the fire, cotton was suffered to accumulate at said
sheds and on Main Street until it endangered the property of
others in the immediate vicinity and that mentioned in the
complaint, then the defendant was guilty of aiding in the
creation and maintenance of a public nuisance, and is liable
for the loss mentioned in the complaint;" and that if the jury
found that "the defendant was guilty of aiding in erecting,
maintaining or continuing said nuisance as aforesaid, and the
cotton mentioned in said complaint was destroyed by reason
thereof," and was at the time of the loss insured against fire
by the plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs since that time and before
bringing this suit paid the amount of the loss to the assured,.
the jury should return a verdict for the plaintiffs for the sums
so paid, with interest.
The grounds of the rulings and instructions of the Circuit
Court appear in its opinion delivered in a similar action
brought against the same railway company by another insurance company, and reported as Aarine Ins. Co. v. St. Louis,
.Tron .Aountain & South~ern Railway, 41 Fed. Rep. 643.
The defendant duly excepted to the refusal to give each of
the'instructions requested, and to so much of the instructions
given as is above stated; and, after verdict and judgment for
the plaintiffs, sued out this writ of error.
.M'. Jokn F. -Dillon and Mr&. Harry Hubbard for plaintiff
in error.
X.U.
.1.
X Rose, XIr. E. W. Jimball,and Air. G. B. Rose
for defendants in error.
I. The first assignment of error on the part of the appellant is to the effect that suit should have been brought in the

228

"

-OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

name of the insured.' As to this point it is enough to say that
it was never made in the court below; but, if Smith, the
insured, was a necessary party, as contended for by counsel,
nevertheless the omission to have him made a party under the
circumstances appearing in the record in this case, is not a reversible error.
The Arkansas Civil Code provides as follows: "The court
must in every stage of an action disregard any error or
defect in the proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall
be reversed or affected 'by reason of such error' or defect."
Mansfield's Digest, sec. 5083; Sannoner v. Jacolson, 47 Arkansas, 31, 44.
The plain meaning of' the statute is that the statutory rules
of procedure-

and there are no others L- are directory only;

mere means for the attainment of justice, and in no sense
objects to which justice shall be sacrificed. Washington 'v.
Love, 34: Arkansas, 93:
IL As to the claim that the plaintiffs could not maintain
the suit because they were foreign insurance companies doing
business in Arkansas. Counsel for plaintiff in error copy in
their brief the statute of 1887, relating to foreign corporations.
But, prior to that time, a counterpart of that act, specially
applying to insurance companies, had- been passed. By referende to Mansfield's Digest, §§ 3827, 3831, 3834, which codify
the provisions contained in that statute, it will be seen that
these sections are a part of a series of statutes relating to insurance companies, forming a code in itself, establishing an
"insurance bureau," and governing matters of insurance generally. The sections above quoted had the same effect as to
insurance companies that the later act had upon other foreign corporations. They differ in respect of the particular
that in the case of foreign insurance companies the stipulation
should be filed in the office of the Auditor, while in the case
of other foreign corporations it was to be filed in the office of
the Secretary of State.
IIL As to the negligence of the defendant. The evidence,
without conflict, showed that the defendant had the only line

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. COMMERCIAL INS. CO.

229

Argument for Defendants in Error.

of railway running from the foot of Main Street to the compress in Argenta; that it made a contract with the compress
company to transport all cotton received to the compress in
Argenta at the price of $2 per load; that the defendant was
to send the cars as they were needed; that it was called on by
the compress company to furnish cars to remove the arriving
cotton; that it failed to do so; that cotton lay at the foot of
Main Street, much of it under bills of lading, during very dry
weather, for from seven to twenty days, when the fire took
place, burning from 3500 to 4000 bales in and around the
sheds of the compress company and in the street, of which
cotton bills of lading had been given by the defendant for
more than 1400 bales.
Counsel insist that the station of the railway company at
the foot of Main Street was not a receiving station, but no
reason for arriving at such a conclusion is suggested. It was
a place where every one took his cotton for shipment if he
wished to do so. As virtually all cotton is compressed in the
present day before shipment to market, the incidental compression of cotton on the way, did not in any manner affect
the fact that the station was not only a station of the defendant, but a general station.
The number of bales that were received there within a short
period, shows that it was not only a receiving station, but that
it was a receiving station for a very large amount of cotton.
This was then practically the only shipping station for cot'ton in the city that defendant had at that time. It had agreed
with the compress company that it wuld ship all cotton that
should be received there to the compress in Argenta. The
contract was in full force and unrescinded up to the time that
the fire occurred. This was simply a shipping contract, made
by a common carrier in the ordinary course of business. The
fact that the compress company expected to compress the cotton after it was delivered in Argenta, cuts no figure in the case.
It is true that the compress company, acting as agent of
defendant, did not issue bills of lading for cotton thus transported; but that was because bills were issued by another
agent to the owners for the transit from Little Rock to Ar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

genta, and beyond; and as between the compress company
and defe.dant the standing agreement was the equivalent of a
bill of lading. Ioreover, the compress company was paid for
performing what service it did perform for the defendant in
and about the transportation of the cotton. It was to load
the cars for the defendant. Necessarily it could not load the
cotton-without receiving it. As the contract covered the entire
operation of receiving, loading and transportation, the consideration agreed on must be regarded as having relation to every
part of the service performed and received. The cotton would
not have accumulated if the defendant had performed its duty,
and hence it is liable. Little Rock Railroad Co. v. Dick, 52
Arkansas, 402; Jones v. Norris, 46 Arkansas, 207; Denver fi
South Park Railroad Co. v. Conway, 8 Colorado, 1; Scott v.
tinnter, 46 Penn. St. 192; S. L7. 84 Am. Dec. 542.
The creator of a nuisance, or one who more remotely, either
by negligence or design, furnishes means and facilities for the
commission of any injury to another, which could not have
been done without them, is equally responsible with the wrongdoer. Anderson v. Dickie, 26 How. tr. 105. See also Rogers
v. Stewart, 5 Vermont, 215; S. C. 26 Am. Dec. 296; Scott v.
.Iunter,46 Penn. St. 192; S. C. 84 Am. Dec. 542; Lake v.
.Milliken, 62 Maine, 240; Barrett v. Third Avenue Railroad
Co., 45 N. Y. 628; -Slater v. .Atersereau, 64 N. Y. 138;
Ddvenport v. Buckman, 37 N. Y. 568; TFasmer v. Delaware
& Lackawanna Railroad Co., 80 N. Y. 212; Linnehan v.
Rollins, 137 Mass. 123; Ingwersen, v. Rankin, 47 N. J. Law
(18 Vroom), 18; King v. Pedly, 1,Ad. & El. 822; H2enry v.Dennis, 93 Indiana, 452; Bonnell v. Smith, 53 Iowa, 281;
-Myers v. .ialcom, 6 Hill, 292; S. C. 41 Am. Dec. 744; Salisburly v. lercienroder,106 Mass. 458.
Ordinarily the cases on this subject present the feature ofnegligence on the part of the agent unknown and unsanctioned
by the principal. In such cases the principal and the third
person injured- are, morally speaking, equally innocent, and
the law fixes liability on the former because he had the selection of the agent. Such is not the case here. As for the
fault of- not removing the cotton promptly from its dangerous

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. COMMERCIAL INS. CO.

231

Opinion of the Court.

locality, the defendant was solely to blame. As to the manner
in Which the cotton was kept while it was waiting for transportation, the want of protection against the ever-impending
danger of fire, its continuous and reckless exposure, the defendant was as guilty as its agent. Being a corporation it
could only act through agents, and it was as much bound for
what was done by the compress company within the scope of
its authority as it was for what was done by its conductors,
train dispatchers and engine drivers within the scope of
theirs.
If it were assumed that it was negligence in the compress
company to let the cotton accumulate as it did, and to cause
it to be piled in a public street, the result was confessedly, and
by all the authorities, a nuisance "of a very alarming character." What, then, was the duty of the compress company,
supposing it to have suddenly become aware of the danger
that had been incurred by its improper condihct? Clearly
there could not have been any building erected on the spot
within a reasonable time for the safe storage of the cotton.
The only practical remedy, easy, prompt and inexpensive, was
to remove it from a place where it was exposed constantly to
dangers seen and unseen.
Now the compress company had a standing contract with
the defendant to do this very thing. Supposing that the
owners of the cotton had sued that company for the loss of
their cotton, no possible doubt can exist, according to law and
the theory of the defence in this case, but that the latter would
have been held liable. In the present case, the plaintiffs are
entitled to the same right of action against the defendant that
the compress company w6uld have had in the case mentioned. Concerning this proposition, no shadow of doubt
exists, as a brief, glance at the authorities will show. Water
Co. v. Ware, 16 Wall. 566, 575 ; Milford v. Holbrook, 9 Allen,
17; S. C. 85 Am. Dec. 735; Bean v. Green, 4 Cush. 279;
Ifoburn v. Boston & .owell Railroad,109 Mass. 283.
Mm. JuSkcE GRiY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Opinion--of the Court.

At the very foundation of this action lies the objection of
the defendant that the plaintiffs could not acquire or enforce
any rights under or by virtue of the contracts of insurance
made by them within the State of Arkansas, because they
bad not complied with the statute of Arkansas of April 4,
1887, c. 135, entitled "An act to prescribe the conditions upon
which foreign corporations may do business in this State," and
containing the following provisions:
"SEc: 1. Before any foreign corporation shall begin to
carry on business in this State, it shall, by its certificate under
the hand of the president and seal of such company, filed in
the office, of the Secretary of State, designate an agent who
shall be a citizen of this State, upon whom service, summons
and other process may be made. Such certificate shall also
state the principal place of business of such corporations in
this State. Service upon such agent shall be sufficient to give
jurisdiction over such corporation to any of the courts of this
State.
"S1EC. 2. If any such foreiga corporation shall fail to comply with the provisions of the foregoing section, all its contracts with citizens of this State shall be void as to the
corporation, and no court of this State shall enforce the same
in favor of the corporation."
But a comparison of that statute with other legislation of
the State of Arkansas clearly shows that it was not intended
to include foreign insurance companies.
That statute was the earliest one of the kind in Arkansas,
concerning foreign corporations generally. But a counterpart
of that statute, (embodied in 'Mansfield's Digest, c. 83,) concerning foreign insurance companies, had for years been in
force, which, after establishing an "insurance bureau" in the
office *of the auditor of state, and making it the duty of the
auditor to see that all the laws of the State respecting insurance companies were faithfully executed; declaring it to be
unlawful for any person, company*or corporation to solicit or
make any contract of insurance within the State without complying with the provisions of this act; and requiring every
insurance company or qssociation, domestic or foreign, doing

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. COMMERCIAL INS. CO. 233
Opinion of the Court.

business in the State, to transmit to the auditor, annually, or
oftener if requested, statements of its condition, business and
receipts; provided as follows:
"SEc. 3831. No person shall act as agent or solicitor in this
State of any insurance company of another State or foreign
government, in any manner whatever relating to risks, until'
the provisions of this act have been complied with on the part
of the company or association, and there has been granted to
said company or association by the auditor a certificate of
authority, showing that the company or association is authorizedto transact business in this State."
"SEc. 3834. No insurance company not of this State, nor its
agents, shall do business in this State, until it has filed with
the auditor of this State a written stipulation, duly authenticated by the company, agreeing that any legal process affecting the company, served on the auditor or the party designated
by him, or the agent specified by said company to receive
service of process for the company, shall have the same effect
as if served personally on the company within this State."
This statute also provided, by § 3832, 3833, that such companies should report to the auditor annually the amount of
premiums received within the State, and certify to the auditor
the names of "the agents appointed by them to solicit risks,
issue policies or receive applications in this State," and that no
such agent should transact business until he had procured a
certificate from the auditor; and, by § 3835, that any foreign
insurance company, or any person or corporation transacting
business' for it, without being authorized under this act, should
be fined $500 a month, and be prohibited from doing business
in the State until the fines were paid.
On March 26, 1887, only nine days before the passage of the
statute concerning foreign corporations on which the defendant relies, the same legislature passed an act "for the better
regulation of the business of insurance in this State," (Stat.
1887, c. 84,) containing the following provisions:
"SEc. 3. Before any corporation or company organized under
the laws of any other State shall be permitted to do business
in this State, they shall, in addition to filin& the bond required

.234

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of -the Court.

in section one of this act, be required to file with the auditor
of state a statement of the commissioner of insurance of the
State under whose laws they are organized, as to their condition, responsibility, etc., and if there be no such commissioner,
the auditor may require said company to exhibit to him a
statement of their financial condition, responsibility, etc., and
if it appears that said company is a responsible company, said
auditor shall issue a certificate to them, as hereinafter provided.
"S.c. 4. When any insurance company shall have complied
with all the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty of the
auditor of state to issue to said company a certificate to that
effect, which shall entitle them to do business in this State;
and if any person shall attempt to solicit or transact any business for and in the name of any such company, which company has not complied in all respects with the requirements of
this act, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor," and be fined not
exceeding $500.

It thus appears that. the State of Arkansas had established
and maintained a distinct system with regard to foreign insurance companies, under the superintendence of the state auditor, by which every such company was required to file with
the.auditor a stipulation for the service of process upon it, as
well as to make full returns of its condition and business to
that officer, to report to him the names of all its agents within
the State, and to receive from him certificates of authority for
itself and for each of its agents; evidently contemplating that
a foreign insurance company, would have no principal place of
business within the State, but would transact its business in
the usual manner through agents at different places.
Such being the settled policy of the State with regard to
foreign insurance companies, they cannot reasonably be held
to be governed, by the act concerning foreign corporations
generally,, which required a certificate to be filed with the
Secretary' of State, designating an agent upon whom service
might be made, and stating the principal place of business of
the corporation within the State. To construe that act as
including foreign insurance companies would require the drawing of one of two equally improbable inferences; either that

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. COMMERCIAL INS. CO.

235

Opinion of the Court.

the only stipulations of such companies for service of process
upon them should be filed in a different public office from
that in which all other returns and documents relating to
such corporations are preserved; or else that their stipulations
for such service must be filed both with the auditor and with
the Secretary of State.
For these reasons, we are s atisfied that the omission of the
plaintiffs to file in the office of the Secretary of State the certificates required by the statute of Arkansas of April 4-, 1887,
c. 135, was no bar to this action; and that the fourteenth
instruction requested was rightly refused.
It is not contended that the plaintiffs' contracts were void
for want of compliance with the provisions of the statutes of
Arkansas concerning foreign insurance companies, and it does
not even appear whether they had or had not complied with
them.
The validity of the contracts of insurance being established,
there can be no doubt of the nature and extent of the rights
acquired by the plaintiffs under those contracts.
In fire insurance, as in marine insurance, the insurer, upon
paying to the assured the amount of a loss of the property
insured, is doubtless subrogated in a corresponding amount
to the assured's right of action against any other person responsible for the loss. But the right of the insurer against
such other person does not rest upon any relation of contract
or of privity between them. It arises out of the nature of the
contract of insurance as a contract of indemnity, and is derived
from the assured alone, and can be enforced in his right only.
By the strict rules of the common law, it must be asserted in
the name of the assured; in a court of equity or of admiralty,
or under some.state codes, it may be asserted by the insurer
in his own name; but in any form of remedy the insurer can
take nothing by subrogation but the rights of the assured;
and if the assured has. no right of action, none passes to the
insurer. Hall v. 1?ailroad Cos., 13 W91. 367, 370, 379; -Mobile & .Afontgomery Railway v. Jurey, 111 U.. S. 584, 593;
Phanix Ins. Co. v. Erie Transportation Co., 117 U. S.312,
321; Liverpool & Great festern Co. v. Phenix ins. Co., 129.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. '397, 462; Connecticut Ins. Co. v. Lrie Railway, 73 N. Y.
399; Platt v. Richmond &c. Railroad,108 N. Y. 358.
The principal question in the case, therefore, is whether
Samuel 0. Smith & Co., the owners of the 340 bales of cotton,
had any right of action against the defendant railway company for the loss of this cotton by fire.
As sufficiently appears by the bill of exceptions in this case,
and more fully by an opinion delivered by the court below in
the similar case of .Afarine Ins. Co. v. St. Louis, Iron .Mountain
& Southern Railway, 41 Fed. Rep. 643, 651, 652, the rulings
and instructions under which the plaintiffs obtained a verdict
proceeded upon the theory that, if the cotton had been suffered
to accumulate in the sheds and in the street until, by reason of
the danger of its taking fire, it endangered the property of the
plaintiffs and others in the immediate vicinity, it was a public
nuisance, and the defendant, as matter of law, was guilty of
aiding in creating and maintaining that nuisance, and responsible for its consequences, upon three grounds: 1st. That the
defendant had not removed the cotton as soon as delivered by
the owners to the compress company, as it was authorized and
required to do by its contract with that company. 2d. That
the defendant must be conclusively presumed to have been in
possession of so much of the cotton as it had issued bills of
.lading for. 3d. That the defendant had made the cotton sheds
a receiving station for its railroad, and the compress company
its agent to receive and hold the cotton.
The leading facts which the evidence introduced by the
plaintiff at the trial tended to prove were as follows:
The defendant railway company had made an oral agreement with the compress company to receive and transport all
cotton in bales brought by its owners to the sheds of the compress company; and broke this agreement by neglecting to
furnish transportation. For most of the cotton delivered by its
owners to the compress company, the railway company had
issued bills of lading; but it had issued none for the 340 bales
of Smith & Co. IBy reason of this neglect of the railway company to fu~rnish transportation, and the consequent accumulation of cotton in the sheds of the compress company, a large

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v. COMMERCIAL INS. CO.

237

Opinion of the Court.

mass of cotton delivered by its owners to the compress company, including the 340 bales, was piled and kept by that company in a public street adjoining its sheds, and, while there,
was destroyed by fire from an unknown cause.
So far as concerned the 340 bales, the only contract of the
railway company was with the compress company, and was,
to receive and transport the cotton. The neglect of the railway company to furnish sufficient transportation may Eave
been a breach of that contract, for which the compress company might maintain an action; but it created no liability, in
contract or in tort, to the owners or insurers of the cotton, or
to any other person. This cotton, certainly, was in the exclusive possession and control of the compress company. The
railway company had not assumed the liability of a common
carrier, or even of a warehouseman, with regard to it; had
given no bills of lading for it; had no custody or control of it,
and no possession of it, actual or constructive; and had no
hand in placing or keeping it where it was. The delay of the
defendant railway company to furnish transportation according to its contract with the compress company was in no legal
sense a cause of the destruction of the cotton. It was simply
one of a series of antecedent events without which the loss
could not have happened, for, if the cotton had not been there,
it would not have been burned. The cause of the loss was the
fire, kindled by some unknown means, and in no way arising
from or connected with the neglect of the defendant to furnish
transportation. Upon principle and authority, that neglect
was not the direct and proximate cause of the loss by fire, and
did not make the defendant responsible for that loss to the
owners of the cotton or to their insurers. Railroad Co.'v.
.Reeves, 10 Wall. 176; .forrison v. Davis, 20 Penn. St. 171;
Denny v. New York Central Railroad,13 Gray, 481; Iloadley v. .Northern Trans ortation Co., 115 Mass. 304; J)ubtte
Association v. Dubuque, 30 Iowa, 176; Daniels v. Ballantin,
23 Ohio St. 532.
The next question is how far the railway company's liability
in this action is affected by the fact that it had issued bills of
lading for other cotton forming l)art of the same mass accumulated in the street.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The course of business was this:. The compress company
received, the cotton from its owners, gave them warehouse
receipts for it, and placed and kept it, as it saw fit, in its sheds
or in the adjoining street. The railway company, whenever
the owners requested, gave them bills of lading in exchange
for the receipts of the compress company. After doing this,
the railway 6ompany gave notice to the compress company,
and directed that company to put the cotton on the cars addressed accordingly; and the compress company then insured
the cotton in behalf of the railway company, and put the
cotton on the cars.
There is nothing else in the case, which has any tendency
to show that the railway company had or exercised any control or custody of the cotton, or of the place where it was
kept by the compresg company, before it was put upon the
cars by that company. The railway company evidently
neither considered itself, nor was considered by the compress
company, as having assumed any responsibility for the care or
custody of the cotton, until it bad been insured in its behalf
and loaded upon its cars. The evidende warranted, if it did
not require, the inference that the bills of lading were issued
merely for the convenience of all parties, and with no intention of making any change in the actual or the legal custody
of the cotton until it was so loaded. California In&. Co. v.
Union Compress Co., 133 U. S. 387, 415.
Upon the facts of this case, it may well be doubted whether
the liability of the railway company as a common carrier
began before the cotton had been received upon its cars, and
had thereby come into its actual and exclusive possession and
control. St. Louis, Iron, MAountarn & Southern Railway v.
.Knight, 122 IT. S. 79, 93, 95. But, however that may be, the
court below clearly went too far in instructing the jury that
the railway company, merely by giving bills of lading for the
cotton, became responsible for a nuisance resulting from the
manner and the place in which the cotton was kept by the
compress company.
It was sugested that, because by the statute of Arkansas
of March 15, 188T, c. 60, all warehousemen and carriers were

ST. LOUIS &c. RAILWAY v COMMDIERCIAL INS. CO.

239

Opinion of the Court.

prohibited, under a penalty, from issuing receipts or bills of
lading, except for goods which had been actually received into
their possession, the railway company must be conclusively
presumed to have beeii in possession of the cotton for which
it had issued bills of lading. But it might be argued, with
equal force, that this statute prevented the bills of lading from
binding the railway company before the cotton was actually
received into its possession. If the statute has any bearing, it
is only upon the question of fact whether the railway company
had or had not any share in the custody and control of -the
cotton, for which bills of lading had been issued, before it was
put upon the cars.
As to the hypothesis that the sheds of the compress company and the adjoining street had been made by the railway
company one of its receiving stations, and that the compress
company was the agent of the railway company, either in
receiving or in holding the cotton, it is enough to say that, if
the facts have any tendency to support that hypothesis, they
fall far short of conclusively establishing it as matter of law.
The Circuit Court therefore erred in refusing to give the
fifth, eleventh and twelfth instructions requested, as well as in
the instructions which were given to the jury.,
As for this reason the verdict must be set aside and a new
trial ordered, at which an amendment in respect to parties
may be allowed in the discretion of the court below, we express no opinion upon the question of pleading under the Code
of Arkansas, (which is not free from doubt,)'whether this action
was rightly brought in the name of the insurance companies
alone, or whether the assured should have been made a party,
either as a plaintiff or as a defendant. See Mansfield's Digest,
§ 473, 4933, 4934; St. Louis, Iron -Mountain& Southern .Railway v. Camden Bank, 47 Arkansas, 5411, 548.
Judgment reversed, and ease remanded, with directions to
set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.
MR.JusTicn BROWN, not having been a member of the court

When this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

