BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA 1.'D CO.

663

Statement of the Case.

BYBEE v. OREGON AND CALIFORNIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 276. Argued March 31,1891. -Decided April 20,1891.
The grant of "lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph
line from the Central Pacific Railroad, in California, to Portland in Oregon," made by the act of July 25, 1866, 34 Stat. 239, c. 242, was a grant in
prcsenti; and the provision in section % of that act that in case the companies should fail to complete the road .on or before July 1, 1875, this
act shall be null and void, and all the lands not conveyed by patent to
said company or companies, as the case may be, at the date of any such
failure, shall revert to the United States, is a condition subsequent, of
which only the United States can take advantage.
Under the act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 251, c. 262, "granting the right of
way to ditch and canal owners over the public lands," no right could be
acquired to any portion of the public lands until the actual taking possession of the same for the purpose of constructing a ditch.
A conveyance by deed of a perpetual right in land, for a solid consideration
therein expressed, without any covenant for the payment of rent or the
redelivery of possession, creates the relation of grantor and grantee between the parties.
The grantee in a deed of conveyance is not estopped to deny the title of his
grantor.
The plaintiff in error, under the act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 251, c. 262,
constructed a ditch over lands granted to the defendant in error for a
railroad under the act of July 25, 1866, 14 Stat. 239, c. 242. The defendant in error, under a misapprehension of its legal rights, received a deed
from the plaintiff in error, conveying a license to enter upon said ditch
and construct its road over .the same, for the consideration of q250 paid
by defendant in error to plaintiff in error, and upon condition against
impairing or destroying said ditch. The plaintiff in error sued the defendant in error for so constructing its road as to permanently obstruct
and destroy his ditch. Held, that the defendant in error by accepting the
deed, was not estopped from denying the title of the.plaintiff in error, or
from asserting the invalidity of the covenant into which it had inadvertently entered.
THIS was an action originally begun in the state court for
Jackson County, Oregon, and removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States upon the petition of the defendant, upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ground that the case involved the validity of conflicting grants
of land from the United States. The plaintiff sued to recover
for damages to a water ditch and water right, occasioned by
the construction of the defendant's road. His complaint
alleged, in substance, that on the third of September, 1883,
he was the owner of an undivided half of a ,certain water
ditch and water right on the south side of Rogue River, in
Jackson County, and in lawful possession of the same, as tenant in common with one Daniel Fisher; that upon this day
the plaintiff and Fisher, for the consideration of $250 paid to
them, executed a deed to defendant of a right to construct and
operate its railroad and telegraph line across the said water
ditch, but upon condition that it should not in any way destroy
or injure the same, or obstruct their use and enjoyment of it
as a means of conveying water through the same; and that
the defendant accepted the deed, received possession of the
water ditch and constructed its railroad and telegraph line
across the same, but in such a manner as to permanently
obstruct and destroy it, and render it impossible to use it for
the conveyance of water, and refused to make any compensation to the plaintiff for his interest therein.
The answer of the defendant, in substance, denied the ownership of plaintiff and Fisher in any portion of the water ditch
or water right alleged to have been destroyed by the defendant, and denied their lawful possession thereof. It further
denied that the deed set forth in the complaint contained any
condition whatever, or that defendant ever assented to any
condition connected with such deed, or received possession of
the ditch under this deed; and alleged as a separate defence
to the complaint that it was incorporated to construct and
operate a railroad and telegraph line from Portland, in Oregon, and running thence southerly through the Willamette,
Umpqua and Rogue River valleys to the California line on
the southern boundary of Oregon. That by section three of
an act of Congress, approved July 25, 1866,14 Stat. 239, c. 242,
there was granted to it'a right of way through .the public
lands of the United. States, to the extent of one hundred feet
in width on each side of the said railroad where it might pass

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA RID CO.

665

Statement of the Case.
through such lands. That the lands through and over which
the portion of the said water ditch, alleged to have been
injured by defendant, was constructed and is situated, were at
the date of said act public lands of the United States, over
and upon which the defendant had the right, by virtue of the
grant made in that act, to locate its right of way and construct
its railroad and telegrap h line. That in locating said right of
way and constructing said road it became necessary for the
defendant to appropriate to its use one hundred feet in width
on each side of its road, through and over which said lands a
portion of said water ditch alleged to 'have been injured by
defendant was located and constructed, and that the defendant did accordingly locate its right of way over the ground
through which the water ditch was dug, and constructed its
road over such right of way, and that any injury which may
have been done to said ditch was done in the course of such
construction.
The answer further alleged that on May 17, 1879, the said
Daniel Fisher attempted to appropriate to his own use, under
the mining laws of the United States, a portion of said right
of way, and constructed thereon the said ditch; that the only
claim of right ever made hy Fisher to locate and dig that portion of such ditch was obtained by virtue of his pretended
compliance with certain provisions of the mining laws; that
he had no other interest or ownership in such land than the
right so acquired, and plaintiff's only interest therein was acquired under and through said Fisher; and that defendant
took nothing by the deed mentioned in the complaint, as it
then owned, by virtue of the said grant of the United States,
all the rights and property pretended to be conveyed by said
deed, and never received any consideration whatever for the
sum alleged to have been paid by it for such pretended conveyance.
To this separate defence in the answer the plaintiff demurred,
upon the ground (1) that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence. (2) That the facts stated in the complaint
estopped the defendant from setting up the right of way mentioned in such defence, or any benefit under the Congressional

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

grant of the right of way of July 25, 1866, set forth in such
defence. (3) That defendant had forfeited and lost all its
right under such grant over the land where the ditch was situated, by its failure to complete its railroad on or before the
first day of July, 1875, and had at no time since owned any
right or interest in such land or right of way over the same.
The court below overruled the demurrer in an opinion reported in 11 Sawyer, 479, and 26 Fed. Rep. 586, and the plaintiff not desiring to plead further, entered a final judgment in
favor of the defendant, to reverse which the plaintiff sued out
this writ of error.
Ar. John H..Mitchell for plaintiff in error.
It is conceded that but for the qualifying provisions of section 8 in the act of July 25, 1866, this grant must be held to
be a grant inprmsenti, under and by virtue of which the lands
granted passed directly as of the date of the grant to the company; and that the conditions of the grant in such event are
conditions subsequent, and in such case the grant can only be
defeated by a failure to comply with the conditions subsequent,
and in which case there must be a redntry upon the part of
the government. But it is respectfully insisted that the words
of present grant in the second section of the act are so qualified by the provisions of section 8, that upon a proper andfair construction of the act as a whole, the conditions, and
all the conditions, so far as they relate to the right of way
and the completion of the road within a certain time, must be
held to be conditions precedent, and not conditions subsequent.
And not only so, but being conditions precedent, such failure
to comply with them within the time required by the act, especially in view of the provision that in such event the act
should be null and void, operated ipso facto as a termination of
all right to acquire any further interest in any lands not then
patented.
It will be observed bythe court that the provisions of this
act as to the effect of a failure to comply with the conditions,
whether they be regarded as conditions subsequent or condi-

BYBEE v. OR1EGON & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tions precedent, are essentially different in phraseology and in
legal effect from the great body of Congressional grants to
railroad companies.
A striking similarity, however, will be found between the
act under consideration in this respect and the act granting
lands to aid in the construction of railroads in the Territory
of Minnesota, and which came under consideration in this
court in the case of Rice v. Railroad Co., 1 Black, 358, and in
which case this court held that although words of present
grant were used in the granting section which, had they stood
alone, would have passed the title as of the date of the grant,
they were so qualified by subsequent provisions of the act as
to prevent the same from being a present grant. This case
was approved in t. Paul & Pacific Railroad v. HYorther
Paoific Railroad,ante, 1.
The granting words in the Minnesota act and those in the
grant under consideration are exactly alike, but as in that case
the court found in the subsequent language an intent on the
part of Congress to limit and modify the meaning of the
words "that there shall be and is hereby granted," so in this
case we have the same intent expressed in somewhat similar
but much more emphatic language, which makes the conclusion irresistible that no present estate was granted or intended
to be granted by Congress to these railroad companies.
In presenting this case counsel are not unmindful of the
rulings of this court - notably in the case of Railroad Co. v.
Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426- giving construction to an act of
Congress, then under review, granting right of way to a railroad company somewhat similar to the act making grant to
the defendant in so far as it relates to the nature and effect of
the grant of right of way over the public domain; and in
discussing this case there is no disposition to contest the correctness of the rule laid down in the case referred to, and perhaps in some other cases since that time, as applicable to the
particular grants referred to, and as applicable to the facts
presented in connection therewith, as to progress made by the
companies respectively under those grants where rights of
settlers were supposed to have attached.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Our contention is that the act of July 25, 1866, under which
the defendant claims, is radically different from the, act discussed in 103 U. S. supra, and also that the route or line of
road under the' former had not, as in the adjudicated cases,
been established. The act is different in this, as we have seen,.
that it provides in ter'ms, not merely that on a failure to
build the whole of the road by July 1, 1880, all lands not conveyed by patent to said company at the date of any such
failure shall revert to the United States, but also that the act
itself shall be "null and void." No such clause as this appears, so far as I have been able to examine, in any of the
other acts of Congress making grants of public lands or right
of way over the public lands to any railroad company save in
the one amendment, sutpra. It was clearly the opinion of
Congress, it would seem, that in the event of a failure upon
the part of the company to build the whole road within the
time specified, viz., July 1, 1880, to take it out of the power
of the company to do a further solitary act under or in pursuance of the act of Congress. It was clearly the intention of
Congress that the company in such a case should be entitled
to the lands patented to it, but in so far as any right upon the
part of the company was concerned to enter upon the public
domain, or any part of it, for the purpose of locating or
constructing its road after such failure to complete the road
within the time specified, it was the intention of Congress to
destroy it by declaring, as it did, that the act itself should be
null and void. In other words, the act, taken as a whole,
simply conferred apower upon the company, to be exercised
within a certain time and upon certain conditions. A failure
to exercise the power within the time was an end of the whole
business, and then the act itself under which the company
could act ceased to exist, because the power that created it
declared that it should then be dead -null and void.
This is not the case, therefore, it is respectfully insisted, of
an estate vested under a present grant,and subject to forfeiture
for breach of a conditidn subsequent, but requiring. further
proceedings to enforce the penalty.
But it is the case of a legislative power not attempted tb be

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORTIA R'D CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

exercised until, by the very terms of the instrument creating
it, the time within which it could be exercised had expired.
If this power to "lay out, locate and construct" had been
exercised during the prescribed term of its existence, it would
have given effect to the granting words in the original act
and vested the legal title to the two-hundred-feet right-of-way
strip in the defendant.
But as none of these steps were taken during the continuance
of the power, no estate ever vested in defendant, and there is
no ground for the application of this doctrine.
That the authority to act terminated with the expiration of
the time fixed by the amendment of June 25, 1868, is clear
from the language used, and well settled by judicial decisions.
In the matter of the Brooklyn, Tfinfield &c. Railway Co., 72
iN. Y. 245; Brooklyn Steam Transit Co. v. Brooklyn, 78 1. Y.
524; Union Hotel Company v. Hersee, 79 N. Y. 454; Farnham
v. Benedict, 107 N. Y. 159.
It is conceded in the pleadings, and also by the court below
in the'opinion, that the Oregon and California Railroad Company, defendant, had not completed its road, even so far as
the location of the premises in question, within the time prescribed by Congress for its. completion; nor was it completed
to that point, as clearly appears, on September 3, 1883, as it
was on that date the defendant purchased from plaintiff and
his tenant in common the right to construct and operate its
road at a point between the termini thereof across the ditch
of the plaintiff.
The same rule was recognized as correct with reference to
the provision in a special act, "1the franchises thereby granted
shall be null and void, unless the corporation shall commence
the work of constructing the hotel within two years from the
passage of this act, and complete the same within four years
from the time of commencing the construction thereof;" but
held inapplicable in view of an amendment extending time for
the performance of these acts. Union Hotel Company'v.
flersee, 79 N. Y. 454-, 457, 459. See also Brooklyn, Winfield
-ewtown Railway, 81 N. Y. 69; Farnham v. Benedict, 13
N. E. Rep. 784; Railroad Co. v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463..

OCTOBER TERTMT, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The decision in Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426,
cited and relied upon below, involves no such issue. There the
railroad company had located its right of way within the
time prescribed, and while it still had the power to do so, and
the court held that such location related back to the date of
the act making the grant, and cut out intervening claims.
But the effect of such authorized location was to vest an
estate in the lands covered by the right of way in the railroad
company and bring the case within the rule as to forfeiting
vested interests for breach of subsequent conditions. That a
valid location pursuant to the authority conferred by the act
making such a grant is necessary to vest an interest in the
paiticular tracts of land is undeniable. This proposition is
conceded everywhere. Van Wyck v. .inhevals, 106 U. S. 360.
An expression in the opinion of this court in Schulenberg v.
arriman, 21 Wall. 44, is cited in the opinion of the court
below in the present case as favoring the conclusion there
announced. But there was no issue in that case involving the
point, and what is said there as to the continuance of a power
to sell in the face of an explicit prohibition in the act creating
the power is simply obiter.
The second ground relied on by plaintiff to avoid the defence
interposed is that of estoppel.
The 'complaint alleges, and the separate defence in the
answer demurred to admits, in effect, that defendant went
into possession of the portion of plaintiff's ditch crossed by its
railroad track under a deed from plaintiff and his tenant in
common for the consideration of $250 paid, and assenting to
the condition therein against impairing or destroying said
ditch, the, only right conveyed being a license " to enter on
said ditch and construct and operate its railway over the
same" upon said condition. The complaint further alleges
that defendant utterly destroyed the ditch in violation of this
condition. And this, too, the defence admits.
The acceptance of possession under this deed, it is submitted,
created the relation of laldlord and tenant between them, and
not that of vendor and vendee, so far as the doctrine of estoppel
is concerned. The plaintiff still retained his interest in, the

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

premises, and the defendant assumed the obligation of preserving his ditch and doing nothing to injure it or obstruct the flow
of water through the part thus delivered into its possession.
In these stipulations and conditions there was an agreement,
in legal efect, that the violation of these essential conditions
by the defendant was an event upon the occurrence of which
there was to be a surrender of that possession. Osterhout v.
Shoemaker, 3 Hill, 513. See also Blight's Lessee *. Rochester,
7 Wheat. 535; Atlantic Dock Co. v. .Leavitt, 54 N. Y. 35;
Jackson v. Ayers, 14 Johns. 224; Jackson v. 1Walker, 7 Cowen,
636; Phelan v. Relly, 25 Wendell, 388; .Xorrisorbv. Bassett,
26 Minnesota, 235.
But, conceding for the argument that the relation of landlord and tenant did not exist, but rather that of vendor and
vendee, we still insist the defendant is, under the exceptional'
circumstances of this case, estopped from controverting
plaintiff's title, under which it took possession of plaintiff's
ditch and destroyed it, contrary to its agreement.
The defendant having accepted the deed, is bound by the
terms of the deed as effectually as though it had been sealed
and executed by him.
A deed executed by one party only, but containing a covenant on the part of the other to perform certain acts, binds
the latter, if he accepts the deed and takes possession under it,
as effectually as if he had signed it. Spalding v. Ilallenleck,
35 N. Y. 204.
The old common law rule that the estoppel cannot be broader
than the deed, and that in unilateral instruments to which one
party only sets his seal the grantor only is estopped, while the
grantee is not, is not applicable in our system of jurisprudence,
and all the authorities are to the contrary. Atlantic Dock
Co. v. Leavitt, 51 N. Y. 35; Bigelow on Estoppel, 356, and
authorities there cited; Coke Litt. 47.
It will be perceived that in this case every reason upon
which the right of a vendee to deny his vendor's title is
based is lacking. It cannot be said in this case that the
vendee owes no faith or allegiance to the vendor; neither can it
be said that the title of the vendor is extinguished; nor can

OCTOBER TER1Vr, 1890.
Argument for Plaintiff. in Error.

it with truth be said, as in an ordinary case of vendor and
vendee, that the vendee, the defendant, does no wrong by
treating plaintiff as a stranger to the title by controverting
that title.
The attempt in this case upon the part of the defendant
to deny plaintiff's title by setting up another in itself is similar
to the case of a grantee of lands, while holding possession
under his grantor, attempting to dispute his grantor's title for
the purpose of escaping the payment of the purchase price of
the same; and this the courts have universally held will not
,3 permitted. Peters v. Bowman, 98 U. S. 56" Robertson
v. Pickerell, 109 U. S. 608-615; .fcCanihe v. Fales, 107
N'. Y. 404 ; -?ork v. Allen, 30 N. Y. 104 ; Crum v. Ifright,
97 M issouri, 13; ilfu9ford v. Pearce, 70 Alabama, 452; 3farsh.
v. Thompson, 102 Indiana, 272.
While the general rule is well established that the grantee
ordinarily is not estopped to deny the grantor's title, this rule
is not applicable to a case in which the only title asserted by
the grantee is the precise title he has acquired from the grantor
nor to a case where both parties claim from a common source,
and the title is identical in that source. Herman on Estoppel,
vol. 2, ยง 603, p. 738; Wilcoxon v. Osborn, 77 Missouri, 621.
The defendant is not only the tenant of plaintiff in respect
of the estate conveyed to it, but is tenant in common with
plaintiff as to the ditch property and water rights in which
each held a separate estate, but joint possession.
By acceptance of the deed by defendant from plaintiff and
its entering into joint occupancy with the plaintiff of the ditch
and the water rights covered by the deed and in pursuance of
it, the defendant became not only the tenant of the plaintiff
as to the estate or interest purchased, but it and plaintiff became tenants in common, each having a right to the use in
different forms of the same identical piece of property. This
relation having been established, it is not within the power of
the defendant, while still continuing in such possession and
use, to contest the title of the plaintiff by which he was admitted to it, or set up an outstanding title as against his tenant in common, "who is also his landlord in respect of the

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

estate transferred by the deed to defendant. Phelanand Wife
v. Kelly, 25 Wend. 389; Jackson v. IHinman, 10 Johns. 292;
The Proprietorsof Braintree v. Battles, 6 Verm. R. 395.
Mr. J. ilubley Ashton (with whom was Mr. Oharles H_
Tweed on the brief) for defendant in error.
MR.

JuSTicn BRowx, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented by the record in this case.
First, whether the defendant lost the power to take possession
of its right of way by its failure to construct its road within
the time limited by the acts of Congress. And second, whether
it is estopped to claim that it took nothing under its deed from
the plaintiff, and may set up a separate and independent title
in itself.
1. By section 2 of an act of Congress approved July 25,
1866, entitled "An act granting lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Central Pacifier
Railroad in California, to Portland, in Oregon," 14 Stat. 239,
there was granted to such company organized under the laws
of Oregon, as the legislature of said State should thereafter
designate, to aid in the construction of its road, "every alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated by odd
numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate sections per
mile," not otherwise disposed of by the United States, with
t11 rfgtit to select from the odd sections, within ten miles
beyond the limits of the granted lands, other lands in lieu of
any which might have been so disposed of prior to the location
of the line; and by section 3 there was granted to it the right
of way through the public lands, to the extent of 100 feet in
width on each side of said railroad, where it might pass over
the public lands, including all necessary grounds for stations,
etc.
By section 6 the companies were required to file their assent
to the act within one year; to complete the first twenty miles
within two years, and at least twenty miles in each year thereafter, and the whole on or before the 1st of July, 1875.
vOL. cxxxIX-43

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Coui't.

Section 8 provided that in case the company should not
complete the'same as provided in section 6, "this act shall be
null and void, and all the lands not conveyed by patent to said
company or companies, as the case may be, at the date of any
such failure, shall revert to the United States;" but by a stibsequent act of June 25, 1868, 15 Stat. 80, the time for completing the road was extended to July 1, 1880.
That the company did not complete its road by the time
limited by the act of 1868, namely, July 1, 1880, is' conceded
by both parties, and is evident from the fact that the defendant took this deed from the plaintiff on December 3, 1883,
wherein, for the consideration of 8250, it was agreed that the
defendant might enter upon plaintiff's water ditch, and construct and operate its railroad and telegraph line over the
same. Indeed, it appears to have been a matter of. sich common knowledge in the State of Oregon that the road was not
constructed until after 1880, that the court below was inclined
to take judicial notice of the fact.
The act making the grant in aid of this road does not, in its
words of conveyance, differ materially from a large number of
similar acts passed by Congress in aid of the construction of
roads in different parts of the West, which have 'been considered by this court as taking effect in1irxsenti,although the
particular lands to which the grant is applicable remain to be
selected and identified when the road is located, and the map
is filed with the Secretary of the Interior. The act then
operates as a grant of all odd-numbered sections within the
limits, except so far as they' may have been in the meantime
"granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, preempted or otherwise disposed of." And in all the cases in
which the question has been passed upon by this court, the failuire to complete the road within the time limited is treated as a
condition subsequent, not operating _pso facto-as a revocation
of the grant, but as authorizing the government itself to take
advantage of it, and forfeit the grant by judicial proceedings,
or by an act of Congress, resuming title to the lands. Thus in
Sehulenberg v. Harriman, 21 Wall. 44, the act of Congress
granting the lands provided in what manner the sales should

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

be made, and enacted that if the road were not completed
within ten years no further sales should be made, and the lands
should revert to the United States. That was decided to be
no more than a provision that the grant should be void, if the
condition subsequent were not performed. Said Mr. Justice
Field, in that case: "It is settled law that no one can take
adv 'tntmmge of the non-performance of a condition subsequent
annexed to an estate in fee, but the grantor or his heirs, or the
successors of the grantor if the grant proceed from an artificial
person; and if they do not see fit to assert their right to enforce a forfeiture on that ground, the title remains unimpaired
in the grantee.

.

.

.

And the same doctrine obtains where

the grant upon condition proceeds from the government; no
individual can assail the title it has conveyed on the ground
that the grantee has failed to perform the conditions annexed."
p. 63. The doctrine of this case was approved and reapplied
to a similar grant to the St. Joseph and Denver City Railroad,
in Van Wyck v. Enevals, 106 U. S.360. In St. Zouis &c.
Railway Co.v. McGee, 115 U. S.469, 473, it was said by Chief
Justice Waite to have been often decided "that lands granted
by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads do not revert after condition'broken until a forfeiture has been asserted
by the United States, either through judicial proceedings instituted under authority of law for that purpose, or through some
legisla*tive action -legally equivalent to a judgment of office
found at common law." "Legislation to be sufficient must
-manifest an .intention by Congress to reassert title and to resume possession. As it is to take the place of a suit by the
United States to enforce a forfeiture, and judgment therein
establishing the right, it should be direct, positive and free
from all doubt or ambiguity." The manner in which this forfeiture shall be declared is also stated in United States V.
Repentigny, 5 Wall. 211, 267; .arnswortth v. .Ainnesota &
Pacific Railroad Co., 92 U. S.. 49) 66; .fc2licken v. United
States, 97 U. S.204, 217.
An effort is made to distinguish this case from Schulenberfl
v. Harriman,in the fact that the act not only declares that
the lands "shall revert to the United States," but that the act

OCTOBER TERMy , 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

itself "shall be null and void," from which it is argued that it
was the intention of Congress that the failure to complete the
road should operate ipsofacto as a termination of all right to
acquire any further interest in any lands not then patented.
It is true that the language of this statute differs somewhat
from that ordinarily employed by Congress in connection with
similar grants; but the declaration that the lands "shall
revert to the United States" is practically equivalent to a
declaration that the act granting such lands shall cease to be
operative if the company fail to. complete its road within a
specified time, or as Mvfr. Justice Field puts it in Sc7ulenberg v.
-Harriman:"The provision in the act -of Congress of 1856,
that all lands remaining unsold after ten years shall revert to
the United States, if the road be rnot then completed, is no
more than a provision that the grant shall be void if a condition subsequent be not performed." The title to the land having vested in the company by virtue of the grant, the provision
that it shall complete the road within a certain number of years
does not cease to be a condition subsequent by declaring that
the act shall be null and void, if the condition be not complied
with.
And the law is well settled that it is only-the grantor, or
those in privity with him, who can take advantage of the forfeiture. Indeed, the provision that "this act shall be null and
void" is immediately followed by words indicating that it is
only to a limited extent, that is, so far only as lands not
already patented are concerned, that the nullity of the act extends, the language being: "This act shall be null and void,
and all the lands not conveyed by patent to said company or
companies, as the case may be, at the date of any such failure,
shall revert to the United States." As to lands theretofore
patented the act continued in full force and effect. As remarked by the learned judge of the court below: "It is to
become ' null' only so far as to allow the grantor to resume
the grant on a failure to comply with the condition, and then
only as to the lands remaining unpatented or unearned; and,
but for this qualification the grant might have been wholly
resumed or forfeited for any failure to comply with the condi-

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, even in the construction of the last mile. And this construction of the section is in harmony with the general purpose

of the act and the policy of C6ngress in making the grant."
A condition that would put it beyond the power of the company to build the last mile of its road by the aid of the granted
lands is manifestly so harsh and unjust, that the breach of
such condition ought not to be treated as a forfeiture, unless
the language of the act be so clear and unambiguous as to
admit of no other reasonable construction.
Counsel for plaintiff has called our attention to several cases
decided by the Court of Appeals of New York which doubtless
have a bearing upon this question, but which, when carefully
examined, are readily distinguishable.
fatter ofBrooklyn &c.
B y. Co., 72 N. Y. 245; Brooklyn Steam Transit Co. v. City of
Brooklyn, 78 N. Y. 524; Union Hotel Company v. Hersee, 79
N. Y. 454:; P arnham v. Benedict, 107 N. Y. 159. In these
cases the legislative act did not avoid the grant upon the nonperformance of the condition subsequent, but declared that the
corporate existence and powers of the company tQ act were
at an end. In other words, it fixed a:time for the expiration of
the charter, and, when that time arrived, the corporation lost
its power to act or to do any business beyond such as was necessary in the process of winding up. It was not so much a
case of forfeiture as of loss of legal entity, or, as expressed in
the language of the Court of Appeals in the case in 78 T. Y.,
"In case of non-compliance, the act itself ceases to have any
operation, and all the powers, rights and franchises thereby
granted were deemed forfeited and terminated. There was to
be not merely a case of forfeiture, which could be enforced -by
an action instituted by the Attorney General, but the powers,
rights and franchises were to be taken and treated as forfeited and terminated. At the end of the time limited the
corporation was to come to. an end, as if that were the time
limited in its charter for its corporate existence."
Aore directly in point is the case of Oakland Railroad Co.
v. Oakland, .Brookly'n &o. Railroad Co., 45 California, 365.
In this case an act of the legislature granting a corporation
the right, of way to lay a street railroad track provided "that,

OCTOBER TER2M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

if the provisions of this act are not complied with, then the franchise and privileges herein granted shall utterly cease and be
forfeited." A breach of this condition was held ipso facto to
forfeit the franchises of the corporation. A distinction was
drawn in this case between forfeitures at common law, which
did not operate to divest the title of the owner until, by
proper judgment in a suit instituted for that purpose, the
rights of the State had been established, and a forfeiture declared by statute, in which case the title to the thing forfeited
vests immediately in the State, upon the happening of the
event for which the forfeiture is declared.
The doctrine of these cases has not been universally accepted, however, and in several States, notably in Massachusetts, it has been distinctly repudiated. Thus, in Br'iggs v.
Cape Cod Slhp anal Company, 137 Mass. 71, the act of incorporation of a canal company provided that, if a certain
amount were not expended in the actual construction of the
canal within four months from the passage of the act, the
"corporation shall thereupon cease to exist;" and, further,
that, if a certain other amount were not deposited by the
company with the treasurer of the Commonwealth within the
same time, the corporation should thereupon cease to exist.
It was declared in the opinion of the court to be "too well
settled to admit of discussion; that a corporation can be'judicially determined to have ceased to exist only in a suit to which
the Commonwealth is a party. The act of incorporation is a
contract between the Commonwealth and the corporation:
Whether the corporation has complied with the conditions is
a question of fact to be judicially determined. The Commonwealth -may waive a strict compliance with the terms of the
act, and may elect whether it will insist upon a forfeiture, if
there has been a breach of condition;" citing a number of
prior cases in the same State.
In Atchqfalaya Bank v. ]Dawson, 13 La. 497, an act for the
incorporation of a bank provided that upon the suspension or
refusal of payment in specie for more than ninety days, "the
charter shall be ipsofacto forfeited and void." But it was held
that until the forfeiture @ias judicially decreed, neither the

BYBEE v. OREGO\ & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

forfeiture nor the cause could be inquired into in another suit,.
nor could the existence of the corporation be questioned in-cidentally or collaterally. To the same effect is the case of
Lagrange & 2femphis Railroad Company v. Rainey, ' Cold-well, 420. In this case it was held that if an act of incorporation fixes a definite time in which the charter shall expire,.'
when the time for this expiration arrives the corporation is
dissolved. But if its continuance beyond a fixed time is made
to depend upon the performance of agiven condition, the nonperformance of the condition is a mere ground of forfeiture.
"This, however, can only be taken advantage of by the
State in a.proceeding in the nature of a quo waranto,and the
existence of the corporation can never be collaterally called iu
question." It is not, indeed, always easy to determine whether
a condition be precedent ,or subsequent; it must depend
wholly upon the intention of the parties as expressed in the
instrument, and the facts surrounding its execution. If the
condition does not necessarily precede the vesting of the estate, or if from the nature of the act to be performed and the
time required for its performance, it is evident that the intention of the parties is that the estate shall vest, and the grantee
shall perform the act after taking possession, then the condition is treated as subsequent, and there is no forfeiture without a reentry by the grantor, or, in the case of the State,
without some action on its part manifesting an intention to
resume its title. In the case under consideration, the act, as
already stated, takes effect as a present grant and the provision
for a forfeiture in case the company fails to complete its road
is clearly a condition subsequent.
Upon the whole we think there is nothing to distinguish
this case from Sckuzene g v. Harriman, and that the learned
judge of the court below was correct in holding that the railroad company had not forfeited its right to construct its road
by failure to complete the same within the time limited.*
The distinction between a right of way over the public
lands, and lands granted in aid of the constructioh of the road,
is important in this connection. As to the latter, the rights
of settlers or others who acquire the ]ands by purchase or

OCTOBER TERII, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

occupation between the passage of the act and the actual location and identification of the lands, are preserved unimpaired,
while the grant of the right of way is subject to no stich condifion; and in the construction given by this court to a similar
grant in RailroadCompany v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426, a person subsequently acquiring any part of such right of way takes
it subject to the prior right of the railroad company. As remarked by the court in that case, p. 430, "If the company
could be compelled to purchase its way over any section that
might be occupied in advance of its location, very serious
obstacles would be often imposed to the progress of the road.
For any loss of lands by settlement or reservation, other lands
are given; but for the loss of the right of way by these means,
no compensation is provided, nor could any be given by the
substitution of another route."
Th6 only title which the plaintiff seems to have had to the
land in question was by virtue of an appropriation or occupation of the same under the act of July 26, 1866, "granting the
right of way to ditch and canal owners over the public lands,
and for other purposes." 14 Stat. 251. But as his occupation
dates only from May, 1879, long after the defendant company
had become entitled to its right of way over these lands .by
virtue of the act of July 25, 1866, his claim was clearly subordinate to that of the railroad company. Under this act the
plaintiff acquired no right to any portion of the public lands
until his actual taking possession of the same for the purpose
of constructing a ditch, and in so doing he took the risk of
encroaching upon the right of way which the railroad company mighfi thereafter select for the purposes of their road.
This very question arose in the Supreme Court of California,
in the case of Doran v. Central Pacifc RailroadCompany, 24
Calif6rnia, 245, in which the court observed, p. 259, that "the
grant by Congress of the "right of way over any portion of
the public land, to which the United States have title, and to
which private rights have not been attached under the laws
of Congress, vests in the grantee the full and complete right
of entry for.the purpose of enjoying the right granted, and no
person claiming in his own right any interest in the lands can

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

prevent the grantee from entering, in pursuance of his grant,
or can recover damages that may necessarily be occasioned by
such entry." We regard this exposition of the law as sound,
and the case as exactly in point in this connection.
2. With regard to the question of estoppel, the complaint alleges that the defendant went into possession of
that portion of the plaintiff's ditch across which its road
was constructed, under a deed from plaintiff and his tenant in common, for a consideration of $250 paid, and assented to the condition therein contained against impairing
or destroying said ditch, the only right conveyed being
a license "to enter on said ditch and construct and operate its
road over the same," upon such condition. The contention of
the plaintiff is that in receiving this deed and entering into
possession the relation of landlord and tenant was created between them, and not. that of vendor and vendee, so far as the
doctrine of estoppel is concerned. But as the deed was the
conveyance of a perpetual right for a solid consideration
therein expressed, and there was no covenant for the payment
of any rent, nor for the redelivery of possession, we think it
should be regarded as creating the relation of grantor and
grantee between the parties thereto. We have already found
that the title of the company to its right of way upon the
location of its route related back to the date*of the act, and
hence that when it took possession of the land in question
plaintiff had no title thereto which he could set up against the
company. Had the defendant not accepted the deed from the
plaintiff, it might, under our ruling upon the first point, have
treated him as a trespasser. The real question then is, whether
the defendant is placed in a -worse position by having accepted
the deed from a party who had no title to the premises he
assumed to convey - the defendant having taken the conveyance under a mistaken view of the law applicable to the case.
It is conceded that, as a general principle, the grantee in a
deed of conveyance is not estopped to deny the title of his
grantor, and unless this case be an exception to this rule, it
will necessitate an affirmance of this judgment. The rule was
first applied by this court in the case of .Blight's Zessee v..

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535, in favor of the grantee, who was
permitted to show that the person from whom he derived
title was an alien, and, under the laws then existing, incapable
of transmitting by inheritance the title to lands in this country. In 3ferryman v. Bourne, 9 Wall. 592, it was stated that
the vendee "holds adversely to all the world, and has the
same right to deny the title of his vendor as the title of any
other party;" and in Robertson v. Piclcrell, 109 U. S. 608, it
was held, in an elaborate opinion by Mr. Justice Field, that
defendants, who hield under a deed of a life estate, were not
estopped from setting up a superior title. Cases in the state
courts to the same effect are Comstock v. Smith, 13 Pick. 116;
Osterhout v. Shoemaker, 3 Hill, 513; Ciee v. Seaman, 21 MichiY. 242..
gan, 287; and Sparrow v. Kingman, 1I.
some exceptions
are
doubtless
there
Upon the other hand,
would render
'which
to the rule arising out of circumstances
the repudiation of the grantor's title "a breach of good
faith and common honesty" on the part of the grantee.
Thus he cannot refuse to pay the consideration named in his
deed, Inor probably to perform any other strictly personal
covenant, nor, as remarked by the court in Robertson v. Pick-.
rell, can the grantee, in a contest with another, whilst relying
solely upon the title conveyed to him, question its validity
when set up by the latter. In other words, he cannot assert
that the title obtained from his grantor, or through him, is
sufficient for his protection, and not available to his contestant. Where both parties assert title from a common grantor,
and no other source, neither can deny that such grantor -had
a valid title when he execuied his conveyance. Thus in
TVilcoxon v. Osbomn, 77 Missouri, 621, it was stated that the
rule was not applicable to a case where the only title asserted
by th6 grantee was the precise title he had acquired from the
grantor, nor to a case where both parties claimed from a common sourle, and the title was identical in -that source. In
that case, a county having received the purchase money for a
tract of swamp land, caused a deed to be made to the purchaser by the county commissioner. On the same day the
county made a loan of school funds, taking as security a mort-

-

BYBEE v. OREGON & CALIFORNIA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

gage on the land. Subsequently the county caused the mortgage to be foreclosed. The defendant derived title through this
foreclosure. It was held, as against the heirs of the original
purchaser, that the defendant was estopped to deny the validity of the commissioner's deed. So, in Phelan v. Relley, 25
Wend. 389, it was held that where a person, having a possessory title to lands, dies in possession, leaving several children,
his heirs-at-law, who succeed to such possession, it was not
competent for one of such heirs, who had obtained the exclusive possession of the whole of the premises, to defeat a recovery, by his co-heirs, of their proportional parts or shares, by
setting up a title acquired from the owners of the land; that,
to avail themselves of such title they must first, surrender possession to their co-heirs, and then bring ejectment. And in a
number of cases it has been held that where one takes by
descent as a co-heir or tenant in common, he cannot show, in
an action of ejectment by his co-heir, that his ancestor had
no title. Jackson v. Streeter, 5 Cowen, 529; Proprietorsof
Braintree v. Battles, 6 Vermont, 395.
But the consequences of treating this case as an exception
to the general rule are somewhat serious. If, as we hold, the
defendant had the prior right to this. land, it ivas under no
obligation to treat with the plaintiff or pay him for the disturbance of his possession, which was unlawful as against the
company. Has it by this deed disqualified itself forever from
asserting the right that it would have possessed had it not
clone this? We think not. Assuming, as some of the cases
indicate, that before disputing the title of his grantor the
grantee is bound to surrender his possession taken under the
deed, such requirement is obviously inapplicable to a case
like this, where. the only possession consists in the disturbance
of a water right or ditch claimed by the plaintiff, by the construction of the road aercss such ditch. It could only be
restored by the destruction of the road and the rebuilding of
the ditch; in other words, by the surrender of possession
under the deed, and a repudiation of the entire transaction,
when it is' admitted that the defendant could set up its prior
title and proceed against the plaintiff as a trespasser. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

this would be a useless and expensive formality; and we think
the rule that forbids a tenant from disputing his landlord's
title without first surrendering his possession has no application to a case like this. It may be said in general that the
doctrine of estoppel exists only where there is an obligation
to restore the possession of the land, upon certain contingencies, such, for instance, as exist between landlord and
tenant, or mortgagor and mortgagee. In such cases the occupant is considered to have pledged his faith to return the
possession of the land which he occupies, and will not be permitted to do anything to impair the title of him from whom
he has received it. 3 Wash. Real 'Property, 98; Gardner v.
Greene, 5 R. I. 101; Osterlout v. Shoemaker, 3 Hill, 513.
In this case the defendant not only did not agree -to resurrender possession to the plaintiff, but it hccepted the deed with
this covenant'or condition, for which it received no consideration, and we do not consider it a breach of good faith upon
the part of the defendant to set up this fact, nor ought it to
be put in a worse position by having accepted this deed and
paid $250 therefor, than it would have occupied had it refused
altogether to treat with the plaintiff. The deed was evidently
delivered and received by these parties under a misapprehension of their legal rights, and it would be manifestly unjust to
hold the defendant forever estopped from asserting the invalidity of the covenant into which it had inadvertently entered.
The judgment of the court below must be
4ffirmed.

BOONE COUNTY v. BURLINGTON AND MISSOURI
RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEA-

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF, THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 297.

Argued April 9,1891.

Decided April 20, 1891.

The statute of limitations of Nebraska, of four years, as to an action for
relietfjon the ground of fraud, and the doctrine of laches, apply to a suit
.by a county in Nebraska, brought in the Circuit Court of the United

