OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Appellant.

#6993 and '7008,the description in these 'deeds was sufficient.
These sections are printed in the margin.'

JOHNSON v. POWERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 147. Argued January 12,13, 1891.-Decided March 9, 1891.

An administrator appointed in one State cannot as such maintain any suit
in another State.
A judgment recovered against an administrator in one State is no evidence
of debt in a suit by the same plaintiff in another State against third persons having assets of the deceased.
The allowance, by commissioners appointed by a probate court in the State
of Michigan, pursuant to statute, of a'claim against the -state of a deceased person, upon a hearing to which the only party is the administrator in his personal capacity as claimant, and in his representative capacity
as defendant, is no evidence of debt in a suit in equity by him in the
Circuit Court of the United States in New York to recover from other
persons assets of the deceased.
APPEAL from a decree dismissing a bill in equity.
is stated in the opinion.

The case

Mr.A. H. Garland(with whom was 3r1. H. J. Afay on his
brief) for appellant. .MX'. fosepk P. TVhittemore filed a brief
for same.
1,, SEC. 6993. No irregularity in the assessment roll, nor omission from
the same, nor mere irregularities of any kind in any of the proceedings, shall
invalidate any such proceeding or the title conveyed by the tax deed; nor
shall any failure of any officer or officers to perform the duties assigned him
-or them, upon the day specified, work an invalidation of any such proceedings or of said deed."
" SEc. 7008. In all advertisements, certificates, papers or proceedings
relating to the assessment and collection of taxes and proceedings founded
thereon, any description of lands which shall indicate the land intended with
ordinary and reasonable certainty, and which would be sufficient between
grantor and grantee in an ordinary conveyance, shall be sufficient."

JOHNSON v. POWERS.
Opinion of thie Court.

-Y. Wilam/ F. Cogswell for appellees.

:r-m. JusTicE. GxY delivered the opinion

of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York, by
George K. Johnson, a citizen of Michigan, in behalf of himself
and of all other persons interested in theadministration of the
assets of Nelson P. Stewart, late of Detroit in the c6unty of
Wayne and State of Michigan, against several persons, citizens.
of New York, aIleged to hold real estate in New York under
conveyances made by Stewart'in fraud of his creditors.
The bill is founded upon the jurisdiction in equity of the
Circuit Court of the United States, independent of statutes or
practice in any State, to administer, as between citizens of different States, any deceased person's .assets within its jurisdiction. Payne v. Hook, T Wall. 425; .ennedy v. Creswell, 101
U. S. 641.
At the threshold of the case, we are met by the question
whether the plaintiff shows such an interest in Stewart's estate
as to be entitled to invoke the exercise of this jurisdiction.
He seeks to maintain his bill, both as administrator, and as
a creditor, in behalf of himself and all other creditors of
Stbwart.
The only evidence that he was either administrator or creditor is a duly certified copy of a record of the probate court of
the county of Wayne and State of Michigan, *showing his
appointment by that court as administrator of Stewart's estate; the subsequent appointment by that court, pursuant to
the statutes of Michigan, of commissioners to receive, examine
and adjust all claims of creditors against the estate; and the
report of those commissioners, allowing several claims, including one to this plaintiff, "George K. Johnson, for judgments
against claimant in Wayne Circuit Court as endorser," and
naming him as administrator as the party objecting to the
allowance of all the claims.
The plaintiff certainly cannot maintain this bill as administrator of Stewart, even if the bill can be construed as framed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

that aspect; because he admits that he has never taken out letters of administration in N{ew York; and the letters of administration granted to him'in Michigan confer no poweir beyond
the limits of that State, and cannot authorize him to maintain
any suit in the courts, either State or national, held in any
other State. Stacy v. Thrasher, 6 How. 44, 58; .Noonan v.
'
B'racley, 9 Wall. 394.
- The question remains whether, as against these defendants,
the plaintiff has proved 'himself to be a creditor of Stewart.
The only evidence on this point, as already observed, is the
record of the proceedings before commissioners appointed by
the probate court in Michigan. It becomes necessary therefore to consider the nature and the effect of those proceedings.
They were had under the provisions of the General Statutes
of Michigan, (2 Howell's Statutes, §§ 5888-5906,) "the general
idea" of which, as stated by Judge-Cooley, "is that all claims
against the estates of deceased persons shall be duly proved
before commissioners appointed to hear them, or before the
probate court when no commissioners are appointed. The
commissioners act judicially in the allowance of claims, and
the administrator cannot bind the estate by admitting their
correctness, but must leave them to be proved in the usual
mode." Clarkt7 v. .Davis,32 Michigan, 154, 157. The commissioners, when once appointed, become a special tribunal, .which,
for most purposes, is independent of the probate court, and
from which either party may appeal to the circuit court of the
county; and, as against an adverse claimant, the administrator,
general or special, represents the estate, both before the commissioners and upon the appeal. 2 Howell's Statutes, §§ 59075917; Lothrop v. Conely, 39 Michigan, 757. The decision of
the commissioners, or of the circuit court on appeal, should
properly be only an allowance or disallowance of the claim,
and not in the form of a judgment at common law. _La Roe
v. Freeland, 8 Michigan, 530. But, as between the parties to
the controversy, and as to the payment of the claim out of the
estate in the control of the probate court, it has the effect of a
judgment, and cannot be collaterally impeached by either of
those parties. Shurbun v. Hooper, 40 Michigan, 503.

JOHNSON v. POWERS.
Opinion of the Court.

Those statutes provide that, when the administrator declines
to appeal from a decision of the commissioners, any person
interested in the estate may appeal from that decision to the
circuit court; and that, when a claim of the administrator
against the estate is disallowed by the commissioners and he
appeals, he shall give notice of his appeal to all concerned by
personal setvice or by publication. 2 Howell's Statutes, §§
5916, 5917. It may well be doubted whether, within the spirit
and intent of these provisions, the administrator, wben he is
also the claimant, is not bound to give notice to other persons
interested in the estate, in order that they may have an opportunity to contest his claim before the commissioners; and
whether an allowance of his claim, as in this case, in the
absence of any impartial representative of the estate, and of
other persons interested therein, can be of any binding effect,
even in Michigan. See Lothrop v. Conely, above cited.
But we need not decide that point, because upon broader
grounds it is quite clear that those proceedings are incompetent
evidence, in this suit and against these defendants, that the
plaintiff is a creditor of Stewart, or of his estate.
A judgment in rem binds only.the property within the control of the court which rendered it; and a judgment in jer,onar binds only the parties to that judgment and those in
privity with them.
A judgment recovered against the administrator of a deceased person in one -State is no evidence of debt, in a subse*quent suit by the same plaintiff in another State, either against
an administrator, whether the same or a different person,
appointed there, or against any other person having assets
of the deceased. Aspden v. Nixon, 4 How. 467; Stacy v.
Tkhrashe, 6 How. 44; McLean v. Meekc, 18 How. 16; Low v.
Bartlett, 8 Allen, 259.
In Stacy v. Thra8ker, in which a judgment, recovered in one
State against an administrator appbinted in that State, upon
an alleged debt of the intestate, was held to be incompetent
evidence of the debt in a suit brought by thesame plaintiff in
the Circuit Court of the United States held within another
State against an administrator there appointed of the sanlo

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

intestate, the reasons given by Mr. Justice Grier have so strong
a bearing on the case before us, and on the argument of the
appellant, as, to be worth quoting from:
,"The administrator receives his authority from the ordinary,
or other officer of the government where 'the goods of the
intestate are situate. But coming into such possession by
succession to the intestate, and encumbered with the duty to
pay. his debts, he is considered in law as in privity with him,
and therefore bound or estopped by a judgment against 'him.
Yet his representation of his intestate is a qualified one, andextends not beyond the assets of which the ordinary had jurisdiction." 6 How. 58.
In-answering the objection that to apply these principles to
a judgment obtained in another State o. the Union-would be
to deny it the faith and credit, and the effect, to which it was
entitled by the Constitution and laws of the United States, he
observed that it was evidence, and conclusive by way of estoppel, only between the same parties, or their privies, or on the
same subject matter when the proceeding was in rem; and
that the parties to the judgments in question were not the
same; neither were they privies, in blood, in law or by estate;
and proceeded as follows:
"An administrator under grant .of administration in one
State stands in none of these relations to an administrator in
another. Each is privy to the testator, and would be estopped
by a judgment against him; but they have no privity with
each other, in law or in estate. They receive their authority
from different sovereignties, and over different property. The,
authority of each is paramount to the other. Each is accountable to the ordinary from whom he receives his authority.
Nor does the one come by succession to the other into the trust
of the same property, encumbered by the same debts." 6
How. 59, 60.
"It is for those who assert this privity to show wherein it
lies, and the argument for it seems to be this: That the judgment against the administrator is against the estate of the
intestate, and that his estate, wheresoever situate, is liable to
pay his debts ; therefore the plaintiff, having once established

JOHNSON v. POWERS.
Opinion of the Court.

his claim against the estate by the judgment of a court, should
not be called on to make proof of it again. This argument
assumes that the judgment is in rem, and not in yersonam, or
that the estate has a sort of corporate entity and unity. But
this is not true, either in fact or in legal construction. The
judgment is against the person of the administrator, that he
shall pay the debt of the intestate out of the funds committed
to his care. If there be another administrator in another
State, liable to pay the same debt, he may be subjected to a
like judgment upon the same demand, but the assets in his
hands cannot be affected by a judgment to which he is personally a stranger." "The laws and courts of a State can
only affect persons and things within their jurisdiction. Consequently, both as to the administrator and the property confided to him, a judgment in another State is res inter alios
acta. It carmot be evenprima faeie evidence of a debt; for
if it have any effect at all, it must be as a judgment, and
operate by way of estoppel." 6 How. 60, 61.
In Low v. Bartlett, above cited, following the decisions of
this court, it was held that a judgment allowing a claim
against the estate of a deceased person in Vermont; under
statutes similiar to those of Michigan, was not competebt
evidence of debt in a suit in equity brought in Massachusetts
by the same plaintiff against an execitor appointed there, and
agains.t legatees who had received money from him; the court
saying: "The judgment in Vermont was in no sense a judgment against them, nor against the property, which they had
.Allen, 266.
received from the executor."
In the case at bar, the allowance of Johnson's claim by the
commissioners appointed by the probate court in Michigan,
giving ii the utmost possible effect, faith and credit, yet, if
considered as a judgment in rem, bound only the assets within
the jurisdiction of that court, and, considered as a judgment
interpartes,bound only the parties to it and their privies. It.
was not a judgment against Stewart in his lifetime, nor against
his estate wherever it might be; but only against his assets
and his administrator in Michigan. The only parties to t6
decision of the commissioners were Johnson, in his personal
VOL. cxxxrx-N1

OCTOBER TERlM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J

capacity, as claimant, and Johnson, in his representative
capacity, as administrator of those assets, as defendant. The
present defendants were not parties to that judgment, nor in
privity with Johnson in either capacity. If any other claimant
in those proceedings had been the plaintiff here, the allowance
of his claim in M[ichigan would have been no evidence of any
debt due to him from the deceased, in this suit brought in
New York to recover alleged property of the deceased in
New York from third persons, none of whom were parties to
those proceedings, or in privity with either party to them.
The fact that this plaintiff was himself the only party on both
sides of those proceedings cannot, to say the least, give the
decision therein any greater effect against these defendants.
The objection is not that the plaintiff cannot maintain this
bill without first recovering judgment on his debt in Nev
York, but that there is 'no evidence whatever of his debt
except the judgment in Michigan, and that that judgment,
being res inter aios aatct, is not competent evidence against
these defendants.
This objection being fatal to the maintenance of this bill,
there is no occasion to consider the other questions, of law or
of fact, mentioned in the opinion of the Circuit Court and discussed at the bar.
_Decree affli-med.
Rfi.JusTIcE

BRowN dissenting.

I am constrained to dissent from the opinion of the court in
this case. This is a bill by a creditor to reach the -assets of.
his insolvent and deceased debtor, alleged to have been fraudulently conveyed by him before his death. Did the plaintiff
sue in his capacity as administrator, it is freely conceded that
under the, case of -Yoonan v. Bradley, 9 Wall. 394, his bill
could not be maintained. But, while the bill recites his
appointment as administrator, it is rather by, way of introduction to the proceedings which were subsequently had in the
probate court than as an independent title to relief. After
the recital of steh proceedings, the- bill proceeds to state in
substaiice that during the year 1874 commissioners were duly

JOHNSOQN v. POWERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

appointed by the probate court having jurisdiction of the
estate of the decedent, to hear, determine and adjudicate upon
claims of creditors against said estate, before whom plaintiff
appeared and presented his claim as creditor of 'said Stewart,
which said claim was proved before said commission, and
judgment rendered in favor of plaintiff for $84,975.04. And
the report of said proceedings and judgment was duly filed in
said probate court on February 3, 1875.
It is further averred that said Stewart at his decease left no
property, real pr personal, in the State of Michigan, except
certain real estate alleged to have been fraudulently conveyed,
and that his estate was utterly and hopelessly insolvent; but
that upon suit by plaintiff as administrator against the fraudulent transferees of such real estate, about 7 per cent of the
aggregate indebtedness proved in the probate court was recovered.
The bill further states that no administration has ever been
applied for or had in the State of iNew York, and that decedent left no personal or other assets in that State, except the
real estate sought to be reached by this bill.
By Howell's Statutes of Michigan, section 5888, when "letters testamentary or of administration shall be granted by the
judge of any court of probate, such judge may, in his discretion,

.

.

.

appoint two or more suitable persons to be

commissioners to 'receive, examine and adjust all claims and
demands of all persons against the deceased," etc. These commissioners give public notice of their meeting, proceed to hear
testimony, and adjudge as to the validity of each claim presented. By section 5898 they are required to make report of
claims allowed, and by section 59.02, "when commissioners
no action shall be commenced
.
shall be appointed
against the executor or administrator . . . until the expi-

ration of the time limited by the court for the payment of the
debts." By the construction given to these sections by the
Supreme Court of Michigan, the commissioners are an independent special tribunal,_(Lothrop v. Conely, 39 Michigan,
757,) and while not a court; in the constitutional sense, they act
judicially inthe allowance of claims. Fish.v. Aorse, 8 Michi-

OCTOBER TER.K, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

gan, 31; Clark v. .Davis, 32 Michigan, 1541, 157; Shurbun v.
Hooper, 40 Michigan, 503. Their decisions, unless appealed
from, are final, and are to all intents and purposes judgments,
except that no execution can issue upon them. But the
amount allowed in each case becomes a debt which the administrator is bound to pay from the assets of the estate. Indeed,
it is not perceived why these are not "judicial proceedings"
within the meaning of Article 4 of the Constitution, to which
"full faith and credit" must be given by the courts of other
States.
It is true that these proceedings are not binding'upon others
than parties and privies, and if this were an action against the
administrator of the same estate in the State of New York it
is conceded at once that under the case of Stacy v. Thrasher, 6
How. 44, the action would not lie. But it is difficult to see
how the defendants in this case could be made parties to a
suit at law to recover this debt, for which they are certainly
not primarily liable, nor is there any one against whom an.
action could be brought in the State of New York, since there
is no administrator or other representative of Stewart's estate
there who could be made defendant in such suit. I bad supposed that the only objects of obtaining a judgment as the
foundation for a bill of this description were, either to fix the
status of the plaintiff as a creditor, or to show, by an execution
retdrned unsatisfied, that he had exhausted his remedy at law.
In this case, as before stated, no execution could issue under
the practice in Michigan, and the averments. of the bill show
that even if it could have issued, it would have been 'unavailing, since the estate was hopelessly insolvent, and there was
Of course no execution
no property subject to execution.
could issue in New York, and there was no person there
against whom an action could be brought or a judgment
obtained. I see no reason why this case is not controlled in
this particular ,by that of Case v. iBeauregard,101 1U. S. 688,
in which it was held that, while it was true that a creditor's
bill to subject a debtor's interest in property to the payment
of the debt must show that all remedy at law had been
exhausted, and generally it must be averred that judgment

JOHNSON v. POWERS.

165

Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

had been recovered for the debt, and execution issued and
returned unsatisfied, after all, these were only evidences that
the legal remedies had been exhausted, and not the only
possible means of proof ; and that, where it appeared _by the
bill that the debtor was insolvent, and the issuing of an execution would be of no practical utility, the issue of such execution is not a necessary prerequisite to equitable interference.
Such was also the ruling of this court in Sage v. .femyliis
& Little Booke Railroad,125 U. S. 361, 376. Indeed, it appears
from the case of ifennedy v. Creswell, 101 U. S. 641, that a
creditor of a deceased person has a right to go into a court of
equity for a discovery of assets and the payment of his debts,
though he may never have obtained judgment at all. "When
there," says Mr. Justice Bradley, "he will not be turned back
to a court of law to establish the validity of his claim. The
court being in rightful possession of the cause for a discovery
and account, will proceed to a final decree upon all the merits."
In that case, the plaintiffs appeared only as the holders' of a
note against the deceased. In the 'case under consideration,
the debt is evidenced by the allowance of plaintiff's claim by
the probate court in Michigan. I fail to understand how the
defendants in this case could have been made parties to such
proceedings, or to appreciate the necessity of such action,
although they would be at liberty to insist that the probate
court had no jurisdiction to allow the claim, and perhaps also
that the claim itself was not valid against the estate.
As the other questions are not discussed by the court, I do
not deem it necessary to express an opinion upon them.

