OCTOBER- TERI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

otherwise direct. The fact that a difference of view as to
whether the retrial should be international or domestic may
have arisen and led to delay, or that such difference may have
existed on the merits, does not affect the conclusion. The
inaction of Congress is not equivalent to a direction by Congress. The political department has not parted with its power
over the matter, and the intervention of the judicial department cannot now be invoked.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District is
Affirmed.

HOFF v. IRON CLAD MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 225. Argued March 18, 1891.-Decided March 30, 1891.

In view of the previous state of the art, the first claim in letters patent
No. 279,871, issued June 19, 1883, to Charles Hoff of Cincinnati, for an
improvement in coal-hods, must be limited to the entire bottom of the
crimped material and the resultant increase in its thickness ; and, being
so limited, it is not infringed by a coal-hod made after letters patent
No. 304,033, granted August 26, 1884, to Henry S. Reynolds.
Whether both patents were not void for want of novelty, qucere.
THIS was a bill in equity to recover damages for the infringement of letters patent No. 279,871, issued June 19, 1883, to
Charles Hoff of Cincinnati, Ohio, for an improvement in coalhods. In his specifications the patentee stated that his invention related "to coal-hods and similar sheet-metal vessels," and
its object "to produce a stronger and better article than those
in common use at a less cost of labor and material." He
stated -his invention to consist "in forming the bucket from a
blank so shaped as to be bent into a cone or funnel-shaped
body, then folding the cone end of said body in crimps to form
the bottom." There were two claims to the patent, namely:
"1. The method of forming the body of a coal-hod or other
similar vessel, which consists, substantially, as before set forth,

HOFF v. IRiON CLAD M'F'G CO.
Opinion of the Court.

in first forming a cone-shaped body from a suitable blank, then
folding in the cone end of said body in crimps to form the
bottom."
"2. As a new article of manufacture, a coal-hod formed of
a single piece, and having its bottom crimped or folded to
form a series of annular ribs or rings of progressively-increasing diameter, substantially as shown and described."
The defences were in substance 1. That in view of the prior state of the art, as disclosed by
various patents and devices, there was no novelty in the invention;
2. That defendant did not infringe.
The Circuit Court at first rendered a decree for the plaintiff,
(27 Fed. Rep. 307,) and subsequently, upon a rehearing, dismissed the bill, (31 Fed. Rep. .45.)
M'r. George . Murray for appellants.
.A.

-Mr. J . . Hyde for appellee. Mrb'. Frederic Betts and
Ernest C. VWebb were on the brief.
MR. JusTic

Buowx delivered the opinion of the court.

The essence of the Hoff patent consists in his method of manufacture, by taking a blank sheet of metal of the proper size
and shape, folding it in the form of a cone, and then crimping
the smaller end to form the bottom, which is thus made much
thicker and more durable than the sides. The bottom shown
in his drawings is composed of a series of concentric rings, but
he states in his specificatioiis that he does not desire to limit
himself to any particular form of crimp or fold for the bottom
of the hod, since it is evident that the form of the fold may
be changed and still have the tapering end of the blank compressed to force the surplus metal to fold over and strengthen
the bottom, and it is also evident that the blank may be varied
to suit different shapes of hods.
To ascef'tain the exact scope 'of this patent it is necessary to
examine the state of the art at the time it was issued. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

crimping or doubling in of the ends of paper packages has, of
course, been a common practice from time immemorial. The
patent to George Smith, No. 124,093, issued February 27,
1872, exhibits a coal-hod in the shape of an inverted hollow
cone, the apex of the cone being the bottom and centre of the
hod. It differs froman ordinary coal-hod only in dis'pensing
with the ordinary horizontal bottom, and contains no suggestion of the crimping processi which is the main feature of the
Hoff patent hod, although a method is suggested of repairing
the bottom of the hod by the substitution of a new cone, which
constitutes the chief feature of the invention.
The patent to Edward F. O'Toole, May 22, 1877, No.
191,071, exhibits a coal-hod formed of a blank piece of metal,
forced into a series of vertical crimps upon both sides of the
hod. The crimps begin at the bottom of the hod and widen
toward the top: The bottom, however, is rectangular, and
composed of a single sheet of metal, so that the hod is really
the weakest at the part which is subjected to the greatest
wear.,
Patent No. 199,370, of January 22, 1878, to Isaac F. Kearns,
relates to a method of strengthening or "rednforcing those parts
of tin vessels most subject to wear and strain, in forming upon
the bottom of the vessel a fold, which is bent up against the
bottom until it is flat, so that at the fold there are three thicknesses of metal in close contact, to resist wear at this exposed
point. After being thus provided with the flattened fold the
vessel is retinned, so that the crevices on the insidb and-outside
are closed, and water excluded from the fold. This, though
evidently for a bottom-forming process, contains but a faint
suggestion of the patent in suit -both the process of manufacture and the result being entirely different from those
shown in plaintiff's patent.
The patent to Clark and Wells, No. 221,522, of November
11, 1879, 'for an improvement -inmetallic baskets, exhibits a
body made of a rectangular blank or piece of sheet metal,
which is bent in cylindrical form, with the ends of the sheet
metal overlapping each other and riveted, while. the metal is
'straight. The corrugations are made broad -and shallow at

HOFF v. IROIN CLAD MI'F'G CO.
Opinion. of the Court.

their upper ends, near the top of the basket, and then gradually decrease in width and increase in depth toward the bottom. It is somewhat similar in principle to the O'Toole
patent, and, like that, differs from the plaintiff's in failing to
provide for an increased thickness for the bottom, which is an
ordinary one and secured to the body by the usual seaming
process.
The English patent to George Hazeltine, of December 19,
1873, is for "improvements in cylindrical and other boxes,
cases, cans and similar vessels, and in apparatus for the manufacture of the same." While many of the articles enumerated
in his patent are evidently contemplated to be made of paper
or pasteboard, he expressly describes his product as consisting
"of a box or other vessel of any suitable material, when constructed by folding, crimping, swaging or compressing," and
the use of the mandril, punch and die in the formation of his
boxes indicates that he is dealing with substances not easily
flexible. The result is a box of any suitable material made
by crimping or folding a portion of a previously prepared
tube or hollow cylinder in such a manner as to form the closed
end thereof, or, as described in his sixth claim, "an oval box
formed from a tube or hollow cylinder, when the bottom of
the same is made by folding or crimping in a portion of the
body thereof." Even if the only material contemplated by
Hazeltine were pasteboard, the adaptation of the same method
of manufacture to a stiff material like zinc or sheet iron would
not necessarily involve invention, so long as the process of
manufacture is practically the same. His results are practically the same as those obtained by the Hoff patent, except
that it would appear from the Hazeltine drawings that he did
not contemplate that the entire bottom of the box should be
formed of the crimped materials, but that the centre should
be made of another piece of metal, over which the ends of the
side pieces are crimped to form a solid bottom. The exhibit
"Old Zinc Cylinder" is an application of the Hazeltine idea
to the formation of a metallic cylinder for holding a, roll of
sheet zinc; and consists of a metal case or body,. in which the
ends or bottoms are formed in part of the same piece of metal

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

which forms the sides, such metal being folded afterwards into
crimps, and the crimps flattened down over a wooden head
which is held in place by nails driven through the periphery
of the cylinder into the rim of the head.
Conceding then that it was old to crimp in and -fold the
,ends of cylindrical cartridges and boxes of pasteboard, or other
stiff material, as shown in the Hazeltine patent, and also that
it was old to turn the edge of metallic cylindrical vessels or
packages to hold separate bottoms or heads of such. vessels and
packages, it is evident that, if the first claim of the Hoff patent
can be supported at all, it can only be for the formation of
the entire bottom of the crimped material, and the resultant
increase in its thickness.
Defendant is making a coal-hod after a patent granted to
Henry S. Reynolds, No. 301,033, dated August 26, 1884, the
principal advantages of which are declared by the patentee to
be an increase of strength and durability of the vessel, and
a decrease of the cost of production. To accomplish these
objects he partially forms the bottom out of the metal forming the body, and closes the aperture and completes the bottom by a cap. The blank is cut out in the ordinary way,
and is then formed up by bending its edges around and uniting them to form the body. The next operation consists -in
placing the body in an inverted position, in a stamping press of
the requisite power, and subjecting it to compression between
dies, of suitable shape, to fold its lower edge inwardly, and
to form a series of ribs tapering toward the centre. The next
step consists in placing the body in a press, and, by the action
of another set of dies, flattening the ribs, and thereby partially.
forming the bottom of the vessel out of a portion, and in one
.piece
with the body, the walls of the ribs folding in ,upon the
metal between them, and thus increasing the thickness of a
portion of the bottom, and consequently, increasing its strength
and durability. To finish the bottom, he employs a cap
punched out of sheet metal, inserted in the partially completed
bottom, its rim resting upon the inside, and its body projecting
through the aperture, and so flattened down upon the crimps
as to completely close the aperture and bind the ribs. Under

THE SYDNEY.
Syllabus.

the narrow construction we are compelled to give the Hoff
patent, it is evident this is no infringement. Whether the
result produced be or be not inferior to the Hoff hod, of course
is not involved in this case. It may be true that Reynolds
conceived the idea of his hod from an examination of the Hoff
M
device; but he is none the less entitled to claim that the Ho
'
patent bad been anticipated by prior devices, especially when
such prior devices appear to show a complete anticipation of
his own. Indeed, both of these 'parties seem to have been
gleaning in a field already open to the public.
It is clear that the second claim of the Hoff patent for
"a coal-hod formed of a single piece and having its bottom
crimped or folded to form a series of annular ribs or rings of
progressively-increasing diameter" is not infringed by the
Reynolds device, as no such rings or ribs or anything approximating to them is shown in the defendant's hod.'
The decree of the court below must be
Aflrmed.

THE SYDNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COU!RT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 224. Argued March 17, 18,1891. -Decided

March 30, 1891.

On a libel in rem, against two canal boats, brought by two insurance companies, alleging that they had insured a cargo of wheat on board of one
of the boats, which was lost thkough the carelessness of those in charge
of the two boats, and that they had paid $9211.75 to the insured, who
owned the wheat, as its value, and received an abandonment of the
cargo, and were subrogated to the rights of the insured, the District
Court dismissed the libel, and, on appeal, the Circuit Court reversed the
decree and awarded to .the libellants a decree for $8252.47, condemning
both of the boats therefor. In the District Court one of the boats was
sold for $2100 and the proceeds were paid into court, and a stipulation
for value as to the other boat, in $1000, was given by consent. The
claimant, who owned both of the boats at the time of the loss, appealed
to this court; Beld, that this court had no jurisdiction of the appeal,,

