OCTOBER TERME, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

I dissent from the conclusion of the court in respect of the
stock received by the subscribers to the bonds. That stock
was not paid fol' in money or money's worth, or issued in payment of debts due from the company, or purchased at sale
upon the market. It was a mere bonus, thrown in with the
bonds as furnishing the inducement to the bond subscription,
of larger control over the corporation, and of possible gain
without expenditure. Becoming secured creditors through the
bonds, the subscribers increased their power through the stock.
In my view, there was no actual payment for the stock, and
to treat it as paid up, is to sanction an arrangement to relieve
those who would reap the benefit derived from the possession
of the stock, in the event of the success, from liability for the
consequences, in the event of the failure, of the enterprise.
When the capital stock of a corporation has become impaired, or the business in which it has engaged has proven so
unremunerative as to call for a change, creditors at large may
well demand that experiments at rehabilitation should not be
conducted at their risk.
My brother L AR concurs with me in this dissent.

TALBOTT v. SILVER BOW COUNTY.
APPEAL TROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

MONTANA.
No. 221.

Submitted March 12, 1891. -Decided

March 30, 1891.

The territories possess the same power of taxing national banks which
States enjoy.
Section 1003 of chapter 53 of the fifth division of the Revised Statutes of
Montana Territory, as amended by the Act of February 22, 1881, Laws
of 1881, p. 67, is not in conflict with Rev. Stat. § 5219.
Under the general Territorial system, as expressed in the various organic
acts, the power of taxatign is absolute, save as restricted by the Constitution or congressional enactments.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

TALBOTT v. SILVERt BOW COUNTY.
Opinion of

hc Court.

-Yr. James T. Forbis for appellant.
.M. J: H. McGowan for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted to the District Court of the Second
Judicial District of Montana Territory, on the following
agreed statement of facts:
"1. That the First National Bank of Butte is now and- was
during all of the year - 885 and before that time a corporation
duly created under and by virtue of the laws of the United
States relating to national banks, and located and carrying on
a general banking business in Butte City, in said county of
Silver Bow and Territory of Montana, and that the capital
stock of said bank is one hundred thousand dollars, divided
into one thousand shares of one hundred dollars each.
"2. That during all of said year 1885 the said defendant,
Andrew J. Davis, was the owner and holder of nine hundred
and forty shares of the capital stock of said bank, and that said
shares were during all of said year and are now of the true
value in money at private sale and of the market value (which
is the same) of one hundred and twenty-five dollars each.
"3. That for and in the said year 1885 there was duly
levied and assessed, according to the laws of Montana Territory, in said Silver Bow County, for Territorial, county and
other purposes, upon all property in said county subject to
taxation, an ad valorem tax amounting in all to thirteen and
three-tenths mills on each dollar of assessed valuation.
"4. That said nine hundred and forty shares of stock of
the said the First National Bank of Butte were assessed for
taxation, in the manner prescribed by the laws of said Montana
Territory for said year 1885, to said defendant, Andrew J.
Davis, (who then owned and held said shares in said county of
Silver Bow,) at their estimated true value in money at private
sale and at their market value (which is the same); that, said
defendant has not, nor has said bank, or any one for him or it,
ever paid said tax on said shares so assessed as aforesaid or
any part of said tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"5. That in the general assessment in said Silver Bow
County for said year 1885 shares of stock in corporations
generally were assessed in accordance with the provisions of
section 1003 of chapter LIII of the fifth division of the Revised Statutes of Montana Territory, as amended by the act
of the legislature 5f February 22, 1881, on page 67 of the
laws-of 1881, and where the entire capital stock of any incorporated company was invested in -assessable property in said
Territory, such stock or the shares thereof were not taxed, and
that mining claims not held under patent from the United
States were not assessed or taxed at all, and where held under
patent from the United States were assessed at the government price of five dollars per acre without regard to their
market value; that there are a large number of mining corporations in Kontana Territory whose entire capital stock is.
invested in assessable property, and that part of said property
consists of mining claims."
And upon these facts the following questions were presented :
"1.

Under the laws of the United States and of the Terri-

tory of -Montana are shares of stock in national banks located
in said Territory subject to taxation at all?
"12. Upon the facts in this case was the said assessment
and taxation of said shares of stock to defendant in violation
of or in conflict with the restriction contained in section 5219
of the Revised Statutes of the United States relating to the
taxation of shares of national banks, and providing that such
taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of the individual citizens
of the Territory?"
In the District Court these questions were determined in
favor of the plaintiff, the county commissioners, and this decision was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. The
case is now here on appeal.
That shares of stock in a national benk are not subject to
taxation without the con~ent of Congress is conceded. ' cOullock v. )Warykand, 4 Wheat. 316; Osborm v. Bank of the United
State.,, 9 Wheat. 73S; WVeston? v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449 ; Peo-

TALBOTT v. SILVER BOW COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

yde v. Wfeavei,, 100 U. S. 539. And the contention is, that
Congress has given consent to taxation thereof only by States
and has not extended like privileges to a Territory. Section
5219 of the Revised Statutes contains the declaration of Congress in respect to this matter. It reads:
"SEcio, 5219. -othing herein shall prevent all the shares
in any association from being included in the valuation of the
personal property of the owner or holder of such shares, in
assessing taxes impose(' by authority of the State within
which the association is located; but the legislature of each
State may determine and direct the manner and place of taxing all the shares of national banking associations located
within the State, subject only to the two restrictions, that the
taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon
other nmoneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of such
State, and that the shares of any national banking association
owned by non-residents of any State shall be taxed in the
city or town where the bank is located, and not elsewhere.
Nothing herein shall be construed to exempt the real property
of associations from either State, county, or municipal taxes,
to the same extent, according to its value, as any other real
property is taxed."
In this section no express reference is made to Territories;
States only are mentioned. Tested by the letter, the argument is short and clear. Congressional permission is essential;
no permission is given to the Territories; therefore, Territorial taxation is unauthorized and void. "Whatever may
be the voice of the letter, the argument fails because the
minor premise cannot be sustained. Can, it be that Congress
meant to give power to the States to tax, and to withhold that
power from the Territories? Some plausible reason should
be suggested before the intention is imputed to Congress of
granting to an independent jurisdiction, such as a State, the
power to tax one of its own instrumentalities, and at the same
time withholding a like power from a political organization
like that of a Territory wholly dependont upon Congreqs, and
subject to its absolute supervision and control. Such is not
the ordinary lesson of experience. If the matter in respect to

OCTOBER' TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

which such an intent was imputed were wholly of interest to
the States, or designed purely for the exercise of powers within
the States, then properly all general expressions in the statute
might be limited to States, and the intent of Congress be supported and established by the character of the subject-matter
of the legislation. The converse of this is true. The national
banking system was national in its design, coextensive in its
operation with the territorial limits of the United States, and
intended to be the banking system for the whole country, Territories as well as States. Section 5134 of the Revised Statutes, which provides for the incorporation of a national bank,
requires in its second clause that its organization certificate
shall state "the place where its operations of discount and
deposit are to be carried on, designating the State, Territory
or District, and the particular county and city, town or village." Section 5146 requires that "at least three-fourths of
the directors must have resided in the State, Territory or District in which the association is located, for at least one year
immediately preceding their election." Section 5178 provides
that "one hundred and fifty millions of dollars of the entire
amount of circulating notes authorized to be issued shall be
apportioned to associations in the States, in the Territories
and in the District of Columbia, according to representative
population." Section 5180 provides for a statement showing
the amount of circulation in each State and Territory,'a withdrawal from those States having an excess of circulation, and
that "the circulation so withdrawn shall be distributed among
the States and Territories having less than their proportion, so
as to equalize the .same?' Section 5197 authorizes the association to charge and receive "interest at the rate allowed by the
laws of the State, Territory or District where the bank is
located." Section 5239 provides for a forfeiture of the franchises of the banking association upon an adjudication of a violation of the act; "such violation shall, however, be determined and adjudged by a proper Circuit. District or Territorial
court of the United States, in a suit brought for that purpose," etc. Section 5240 prescribes the compensation to be
paid to examiners of banks "in the States of Oregon, California and Nevada or in the Territories."

TALBOTT v. SILVER BOW COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

These various provisions, scattered through the entire body
of the statute respecting national banks, emphasize that which
the character of the system implies- an intent to create a
national banking system coextensive with the territorial limits
of the United States, and with uniform operation within those
limits, to establish everywhere throughout the United States
banks with the security which a national examination gives,
and furnish a currency of uniform value, the same in Arizona.
as in New York, in Territory as in State. Given a system of
such national character, and such uniform and universal operation through the entire territorial limits of the country, before
any particular section of the statute creating it shall be tortured into creating a discrimination and difference in privileges
and burdens by reason of locality, its language must imperatively demand such construction. Were it claimed that it
permitted local taxation east of the Alleghanies and forbade
it west, even if the power of Congress in-respect to such a discrimination were conceded, the section inioked to justify such
a contention would have to be clear and imperative in its language. Differences arising from mere adaptation to local stat-,
utes is one thing, while discrimination by reason of locality, or
political organization, is another, and essentially diverse. It
does not conflict with the national character of the system
that the banks of the various States and Territories may
charge and receive a rate of interest allowed by the local statutes; that is merely the adaptation of the system to the laws
and customs of the various States; but it would militate much
against its national character if banks organized under it were
subjected to local taxation in one part of the Union, and exempted from it elsewhere. No such intent ought lightly to
be imputed to Congress.
Further it is a general rule in the construction of statutes'
that when in the earlier and declaratory sections the scope and
extent of the power and privileges granted are once stated,
the character of the grant as thus disclosed controls and interprets all subsequent sections; and it -is unnecessary in each
subsequent section to restate or use words and expressions
which shall fully disclose the extent of those powers and privi-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

leges; but these subsequent sections will be understood, (unless
there be words of restriction and limitation therein,) as coextensive with and applicable to the scope, and the full scope,
and extent of the powers theretofore granted. So when, in
the sections providing for the incorporation of national banks,
the thought of their existence in States and Territories alike
is affirmed, the character and extent of the banking system
are disclosed; and subsequent sections must be taken to be in
support, rather than in derogation, of the national feature of
this national system.
Still further, while the word State is often used in contradistinction to Territory, yet in its general public sense, and as
sometimes used in the statutes and the proceedings of the government, it has the larger meaning of any separate political
community, including therein the District of Columbia and
the Territories, as well as those political communities known
as States of the Union. Such a use of the word State has
been recognized in the decisions of this court. Thus, in the
early case of IlepTburn v. Elizey, 2 Cranch, 445, 452, Chief
Justice Marshall observed:
On the part of the plaintiffs it
has been urged that [the District of] Columbia is a distinct
political society ; and is, therefore, ' a State,' according to the
definitions of writers on general law. This is true." In Metr'opolitan Railroad "v.Di-strict of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1, 9,
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, declared that "it
is undoubtedly true that the District of Columbia is a separate
political community in a certain sense, and in that sense may
be called a,State." And in the case of Geofroy v. Biggs, 133
U. S.258, 268, a similar construction was given to the use of
the word "State," and in a clause which seemed on the face
to carry a narrower meaning than the language used in section
5219, suprc. The clause was found in a treaty between
France and the United States, and that clause was as follows:
"In all the States of the Union, whose existing laws permit it, so long and to the same extent as the said laws shall
remain in force, Frenchmen shall enjoy the right of possessing
personal and real property by the same title and in the same
manner as the citizens of the United States." On the face of

TALBOTT v. SILVER BOW COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the language, the word "State" would seem to refer, not to
political communities in general, but to those particular communities which form the States of the Union; yet it was held
to include the District of Columbia, this court, by Mr. Justice
Field, observing: "This article is not happily draivn. It
leaves in doubt what is meant by ' States of the Union? Ordinarily these terms would be held to apply to those political
communities exercising various attributes of sovereignty which
compose the United States, as distinguished from the organized municipalities known as Territories and the District of
Columbia. And yet separate communities, with an independent local government, are often described as States, though
the extent of their political sovereignty be limited by relations
to a more general government or to other countries. Ialleck
on Int. Law, c. 3, §§ 5, 6, 7. The term is used in general jurisprudence and by writers on public law as denoting organized
political societies with an established government. Within
this definition the District of Columbia, under the government of the United States, is as much a State as any of those
political communities which compose the United States."
But the argument does not rest here. Upon what principle is the power of a State. to tax a national bank, without the
consent of Congress, denied ? The answer to this question
was fully given by Chief Justice Marshall in the cases of
.X[cCulloch v. Xmkyland and WVeston v. COkarleston, supra.
Briefly stated, the argument was this: Two distinct sovereignties, the State and the United States, exercise jurisdiction
within the same territorial limits. Each has the power of
taxation. This power is in its nature absolute and unlimited.
Power to tax is power to destroy. Given to the State the
power to tax any of the instrumentalities which the United
States creates for the exercise of its jurisdiction, and the
former may impede, if not wholly stop, the -latter in the discharge of its duties as sovereign. Hence, by necessary implication, the absolute exemption from state taxation of any of
among them are national banks,
the instrumentalities -and
which the United States creates for the exercise of its powers
and the discharge of its duties. But the whole argument fails

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

when applied to a Territory. It is not a distinct sovereignty.
It has no independent powers. It is a political community
organized by Congress, all whose powers are created by Congress, and all whose acts are subject to Congeiessional supervision. Its attitude to the general government is no more
independent than that of a city to the State in which it is
situated, and which has given to it its municipal organization.
Who would contend, in the absence of express legislative provision therefor, that a bank created by or under the laws of
a State, and located and doing business in a city of that State,
could claim exemption from municipal taxation upon its property? A bank is an institution organized for private business,
and with a view to individual profit, although it may serve a
public purpose and such public purpose justify its creation;
and no such private corporation has any implied exemption
from local taxation by a municipal or political organization in
which it is situated. The only ground on which exemption
from such taxation can be based, in the absence of express
legislative provision, is that the tax proceeds from a distinct
and independent sovereignty. As the reason for the rule of
exemption of a national bank from state taxation fails in
respect to a bank located in a Territory, the rule also fails.
From these several considQrations we conclude that there
was no error in this ruling of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana, and that the same power of taxation in
respect to national banks exists in the Territories that does
in the States. We pass, therefore, to the second question presented, and that is whether the rule of assessment prescribed
by the statute and adopted in this case was in violation of the
restrictions contained in said section 5219.
The Montana statute, chapter 53, section 1003, supposed to
conflict with the Federal statute, is as follows:
"SEcTioN 1003. All other property, real or personal, within
the Territory, 'is subject to taxation in the manner herein directed, and this is intended to embrace improvements on lands
and lots in towns, including land bought from the United
States and from this Territory, whether bought on credit or
otherwise, being franchises which, for the purpose of, this

TALBOTT v. SILVER DOW COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

chapter, are to be considered real property; ditches and
flumes, horses, oxen and other cattle, except calves under eight
months old, which shall be exempt from taxation; mules and
asses, sheep, swine and goats; money in coin or gold dust,
whether in possession or on deposit, and including bank bills;
property or labor due from solvent debtors on contract or on
judgment, whether in this Territory 'or not; mortgages and
other like securities; stocks or shares in any bank or company,
incorporated or otherwise, and whether incorporated by this
or any other Territory or not, except that where the entire
capital stock of any incorporated company shall be invested
in assessable property in the Territory of Montana. such stock
shall not be taxed; public stock or lands; household furniture
not otherwise exempt, including gold and silver plate, musical
instruments, watches and jewelry ; pleasure carriages, stages,
hacks and other vehicles for transporting passengers; wagons,
carts, drays, sleds and other descriptions of vehicles or carriages ; boats and vessels of every description, whenever registered or licensed, and whether navigating the waters of this
Territory or not, if owned either in whole or in part by persons who are inhabitants of this Territory; annuities, but not
including pensions from the United States or any of the
States."
• Under this section two propositions are presented. It is
agreed that there are a large number of mining corporations
in Montana whose entire capital stock is invested in assessable
property, and that part of said property consists in mining
claims. But this concession does not disturb the limitation
of section 5219. The restriction therein imposed is equality
of assessment with other moneyed capital; not with other
property generally, but with that property which passes under
the description of moneyed capital. The significance of this
expression has been defined by this court in the case of jJfe)cantile Bank v. NSew York, 121 U. S. 138, cited in Palmer v.
2Xc.Jahon, 133 U. S.660, 667, as follows: "The termI 'moneyed
capital,' as used in Rev. Stat. § 5219, respecting State taxation
of shares in national banks, embraces capital employed in
national baiks, and capital employcd by individuals when

OCTOBEI TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the object of their business is the making of profit by the use
of their moneyed capital as money, -as in banking, as that
business is defined in the opinion of the court."'
Obviously by this section, as interpreted by the decisions of
this court, the limitation applies solely to a parallel with the
individual or corporation whose capital in money is used with
a view of compensation for the use of the money. And that
is the only restriction which, under the agreed statenient of
facts, demands any consideration. The tax up on a corporation whose capital is invested in manufacturing or transportation cannot, under this section, be placed in comparison with
the tax upon an institution whose business is profit on money
as money. So, whatever may be the rule in Montana in
respect to the taxation of mines and mining claims, or of corporations whose investments are wholly or partially in that
direction, it does not challenge or disturb the rule of taxation
of money as money, or of purely moneyed corporations, upon
that basis. Under the general territorial system, as expressed
in the various organic acts, the power of taxation is absolute,
save as restricted by the Constitution or congressional enactmnents. The. intention of Congress in the national banking
system is, as we have noticed, in favor of local taxation, including therein territorial taxation of national banks upon
the same basis as is imposed by the locality on other purely
mo'neyed corporations and capital. That intention is not disturbed by the provisions of the Montana statute, and hence
the rule of taxation in this respect cannot be ignored.
No other questions being presented, we see no error in the
ruling of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana,
and its decision is, therefore,
Affirmed.

