OCTOBER TERMI,

1890.

'

.

Syllabus.

posed of by defendant's own expert, who testifies to finding
adjusting screws having a relation to the sounder similar to
that of the screws Hi H' to the lever of the key in the patent,
but he says that in the sounder they did not appear to have
any effect upon the retractile force applied to the lever. It is
evident, on examination, that their functions are practically
the same in every particular.
The last defence of want of utility is also fully met by the
fact that Haskins, an employ6 of the defendant, after the commencement of this suit, took oat the patent for a telegraph
sounder, the main element of which is the torsional. spring of
the Edwards patent, and that defendant, upon the accounting,
stipulated that a decree might be entered for a rbyalty of ten
cents apiece, on eleven hundred sounders made and sold by
the defendant embodying the Edwards invention: Under such
circumstances, it does not lie*in the mouth of the defendant to
claim that the invention is useless. Walker, on Patents, ยง 85 ;
IeInbeuter v. Holthaus, 105 -U.S. 94; -Morgan, v. Seaward,
1 Webster Pat. Cas. 170.
Afirmed.
The decree of the court below is

SEEBERGER v. FARWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1441. Argued March 30, 31, 1891.-Decided April13, 1891.

Under Schedule K of ยง 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by ยง 6 of
the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 509, women's and children's
dress goods, composed of wool and cotton, valued at less than 20 cents
per square yard, and weighing less than 4 ounces to the square yard, the
cotton being carded in with the wool from which the yarn composing
the warp was spun, there being 94 per cent of wool and 6 per cent of
cotton, the cotton being put in to secure a lower classification for duty,
and an ordinary examiner not being able to detect the cotton without a
careful examination, and there being no threads or yarns made wholly of
cotton or other material than wool, are dutiable at 5 cents per square
yard and 35 per cent ad valorem, and not at 9 cents per square yard ane
40 per cent ad valorem.

SEEBERGER v. FARWELL.
Opinion of the Court."

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
.Xr. Solicitor GeneraZ for plaintiff in error.'

Af. Percy L. Shuman for defendants in error.
Mm.

JUsTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, in August,
1888, by John V. Farwell and others, copartners as John V.
Farwell & Co., against Anthony F. Seeberger, collector of
customs for the port and district of Chicago, to recover an
alleged excess of duties, paid under protest, in that month, on
a quantity of imported women's and children's dress goods,
which were dutiable under the provision of Schedule K of
section 2502 -of the Revised Statutes, as enacted by section 6
of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, which provided for the
following rates of duty on the following articles, after July 1,
1883, 22 Stat. 509: "Women's and children's dress goods,
coat linings, Italian cloths, and goods of like description, composed in part of wool,, worsted, the hair of the alpaca, goat or
other animals, valued at not exceeding twenty cents per square
yard, five cents per square yard, and in addition thereto,
thirty-five per centum ad valorem; valued at above twenty
cents per square yard, seven cents per square yard, and forty
per centum ad valorem; if composed wholly of wool, worsted,
*the hair of the alpaca, goat or other animals, or of a mixture
of them, nine cents per square yard and forty per centurn ad
valorem, but all such goods with selvedges, made wholly, or
in part of other materials, or with threads of -other materials
introduced for the purpose of changing the classification, shall
be dutiable at nine cents per square yard and forty per centum
ad valorem: Provided,'That all such goods weighing over
four ounces per square yard shall pay a duty of thirty-five
cents per pound and forty per centum ad valorem."
The case was tried by, the court without a'jury. It found
the issues for the plaintiffs, and assessed their damages at
$3265.66; and a judgment was entered in their favor for that
VOL. cx=xui-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

amount, with $23.16 costs, to review which the defendant has
brought a writ of error.
The opinion of the court is reported in 40 Fed. Rep. 529,
and it made a special finding of facts, to the effect that the
goods in question were composed of wool and cotton, were
valued at less than 20 cents per square yard, and weighed less
than 4 ounces to the square yard; that the defendant assessed
a duty upon them of 9 cents per square yard and 40 per
centum ad valorem; that the plaintiffs paid the duties under
protest, for the purpose of obtaining possession of the goods,
and in due time protested to the collector against the exaction, and seasonably appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, who sustained the decision of the collector, and the suit
was brought in due time; and that in the protest the plaintiffs
claimed that the goods should have been -assessed at a duty of
.5 cents per square yard and 35 per centum ad valorem. The
court also found that the goods were composed of wool and
cotton, the cotton being carded in with the wool from which
the yarn composing the warp of the goods was spun, there
being about 6 per cent of cotton mixed with the wool, so that
the goods were composed of about 94 per cent in quantity of
wool and 6 per cent in quantity of cotton; that the cotton
was mixed with the wool from which the yarn composing the
warp of the goods was spun, for ,the purpose of securing th
classification of the goods under the clause before quoted, so
that they would be dutiable at 5 cents per square yard and 35
per centumn ad valorem; that the ordinary examiner of the
goods would not detect the cotton without careful examination;
that the goods had no selvedges of different material from
the body of them, and there were no threads or yarns made
-wholly of cotton or other material than wool; and that it
cost slightly more to manufacture the goods with such mixture
than it would to make them all of wool. The court, therefore, found that the goods were composed in part of wool
and part of cotton, weighing less than 4 ounces to the square
yard and valued at not exceeding 20 cents per square yard.
The court, in its opinion, said that the collector, in classifying the goods, evidently assumed that the purpose of. mixing

SEEBERGER v. FARWELL.
Opinion of the Court.
the cotton with the wool was to secure a low classification,
and assumed also that so small a quantity of cotton would not
materially change the character of the goods, as merchandise,
when offered for sale to consumers, and, therefore, looked upon
the contention of the plaintiff for a lower classification as an
attempt to defraud the revenue, and accordingly imposed the
higher duty; that, Congress having made special provision for
a lower rate of duty upon goods when composed in part of
wool, without naming how much of other material should enter
into their composition in order to secure such lower rate of
duty, the court was of opinion that manufacturers and importers had the right to adjust themselves to the foregoing
clause of the tariff, and to manufacture the goods with only
a small percentage of cotton, for the purpose of making them
dutiable at the lower rate; that, although the goods in question contained so small an amount of cotton that the ordinary
dealer in them and the ordinary examiner would not detect
the cotton without a close and careful examination, that did
not change the legal right of the plaintiffs to bring their goods
within the operation of the clause involved, by the admixture
of even a small percentage of cotton, if they could do so; and
that goods made of 94: per cent in bulk of wool and 6 per cent
in bulk of cotton fairly came within the description of goods
composed in part of wool.
We concur in this view, and the judgment is
Afli'med.
MR. JusTrcE GRAY and MR. JusTicE BROWN dissented for
the reasons stated in their opinion in Magone v. -Luckemeyer,
post, 614.

