MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION v. HAMLIN.

297

Syllabus.

might have been adjudged invalid. But, as before stated, the
general term found it unnecessary to determine whether the
defendant had actually made use of the device or its eguiva.
lent, and held it to be liable upon the ground that it had
agreed to use it upon all its machines, and was, therefore,
bound to pay its value as fixed by the referee.
It does not appear upon what ground the Court of Appeals
proceeded in affirming this judgment, but as the case might
properly have been determined upon a ground broad enough
to support the judgment without resort to a federal question,
this court has no jurisdiction. Beauyre v. Noyes, 138 U. S.
397; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300.
The writ qf error must, therefore, be dismissed for want o
jurisdiction.

JMUTUAL RESERVE FUND LIFE ASSOCIATION v.

HA.MLIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 184. Argued March 2,3,1891.-Decided March 23,1891.

The plaintiffin error was an association formed "to furnish substantial aid
to their families or assigns in the event of a member's death." The
husband of the defendant in error became a member, and received a certificate stating thatin consideration, among other things, " of the payment
of all dues and of all mortuary assessments" his wife should be entitled
to receive $10,000 from the death fund of the association. The constitution and by-laws of the association provided that a mortuary assessment should be made on the first days of February, May, August and
November, but did not fix any rate; that it should be the duty of a member failing to receive notice of an assessment on or before those days,
to notify the home office thereof; and that a failure to pay the assessment within thirty days. from said first days should work a forfeiture of
membership. When the husband died he had failed for more than thirty
days to pay an assessment which had been made, and had not informed
the association that he had failed to receive notice of it. To an action
brought by the beneficiary to recoi-er the amount insured the association
set up these failures in defence. Held,

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
(1) That the association was not required to make assessments except
when made necessary in order to meet existing claims;
(2) That the insured was entitled to notice of each assessment;
(3) That the failure of the assured to inform the association of a failure
to receive notice of an assessment did not work a forfeiture of
membership and of previous payments;
(4) That, as there was conflicting eviddnce upon the issue of fact whether
notice of the assessment was mailed by the association to the assured, it was properly left to the determination of the jury.

T E case is stated in the opinion.
21r. Alfred Taylor, with whom was Xr. Frederick S.
Parker on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
'ifr. Charles E. Perkins, with whom was .71r. Solomon
Lucas on the brief, for defendant in. errok.
MvR. JUSTICE EHALAI delivered the, opinion of the court.
This action is based upon a certificate of life insurance.
There was a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff, the
beneficiary in the contract of insurance. The refusal of the
court to direct a verdict for the defendant and its rulings upon
questions of law occurring at the trial constitute the general
grounds upon which a reversal of the judgment is sought.
The Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association, the defendant
below, was organized under the' laws of New York "to promote the well-being of its members and to furnish substantial
aid to their families or assigns in the event of a members
death." Its constitution and by-laws, in force January 11,
1883, provided that within ninety days after receiving satisfactory notice and proof of the death of a member, the association should pay to the beneficiary named on its books, or to
his or her assigns or legal representatives, the amount due
according to the terms of the certificate of menibership ; and
that seventy-five per cent of all net death assessments received
by the association should go into the "death fund," the balance, together with the net earnings of the association, constituting the "reserve fund," no part of which could be used

MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION v. HAMLIN.

299

Opinion of the Court.

for expenses.

They also provided: "On the first days of

February, May, August and November (or at such other
periods as the board of directors may determine) an assessment
shall be made upon the entir6 membership in force at the date
of the last audited death claim prior thereto for such a sum as
the executive committee may deem sufficient to meet the existing claims by death, the same to be apportioned among
the members, according to the age of each member, as per
the rates named in the certificate of membership, and the net
amount received from such assessments (less twenty-five per
cent to be set apart for the reserve fund) shall go into the
death fund. A member failing to receive a notice of an assessment on or before the first days of February, May, August
and November, for. his share of the losses occurring during
the time specified, it shall be his duty to notify the home office
in writing of such fact. A failure td pay the assessment
within thirty days from the first days of February, May,
August and November, (or at such periods as may be named
by the directors,) shall work a forfeiture of membership in this
association with all rights thereunder. The provisions of this
amendment shall take effect on and after August 1,111883."
Further: "If any mhember shall neglect to pay any dues or
assessments when due, or if any of the conditions are violated
upon which the certificate of membership is issued, then and
in every such case such membership shall at once cease and
determine and all payments made thereon shall be forfeited
to the association, but the executive committee shall have the
power to reinstate such delinquent member at any time within
one year for good cause shown and upon satisfactory evidence
of good health and upon payment of all delinquent dues and
assessments."
The certificate of insurance here in suit was executed July
26, 1883. It contains, among others, the following provisions:
"In consideration of the statements, representations and warranties contained in the application for this certificate of membership, and of the admission fee paid, and of the dues to be
paid for expenses on or before the thirtieth day of June in
every year during the continuance of this certificate, Laid of

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

all mortuary assessments, as per table endorsed hereon, payable
at the principal office of the association, in the city of New
-York, within thirty days from the date of each notice, the
Mutual Reserve Fund Life Association does hereby receive
Henry H. Hamlin, of Norwich, county of New London, State
of Connecticut, as a member of said association. Whenever
the death fund of the association is insufficient to meet the
existing claims by death, an assessment shall be made upon
the entire membership in force at the date of the last death, the
same to be apportioned among the members according to the
age of each member, for such sum as the executive committee
may deem sufficient to cover said claims, and the net amount
received from such assessment (less twenty-five per cent to
be set apart for the reserve fund) shall go into the death
fund. Within ninety days after receipt of satisfactory evidence to the association of the death of the above-named
member during the continuance of this certificate of membership there shall be payable to Sarah C. Hamlin, (wife,) of
Norwich, county of New London, State of Connecticut, if
living at the time of said death, otherwise to the legal representatives of said member, the sum of ten thousand dollars
from the death fund of the association at the time of said
death or from any moneys that shall, be realized to the said
fund from the next assessment, to be made as hereinabove set
forth, and no claim shall be otherwise due or payable except
from -the reserve fund as hereinafter provided." "This certificate

. .. .

shall be subject to all the provisions and

stipulations contained in the constitution and by-laws of this
association, with the amendments thereto." Upon the subject
of notices by the association to members, the certificate provided: "A notice addressed to a member at his post-office
address -as appearing upon the books of the association according to its usual course of business, shall be deemed a sufficient
notice; alid proof of- mailing same, according to the usual
course of business of said association, shall constitute and be
deemed and held sufficient proof of compliance herewith on
the part of said association." The same provision as to n6tice
was in the constitution of the association.

MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION v. HAMLIN.

301

Opinion of the Court.
The certificate, by its terms, was to become null and void if
any of the payments provided for in it were not made, " when
due," at the office of the association in New York, or to one
of its agents furnished with a receipt signed by its president,
secretary or treasurer.
It was in proof that mortuary assessments were made four
times a year up to August 1, 1883. But by a resolution of the
board of directors, adopted July 11, 1883, it was declared fhat
"hereafter the stated periods for making the mortuary assessments upon the members of this association under the provisions of the constitution shall be the first week days of February,
April, June, Augmst, October and December." Notice of this
amendment of the constitution was duly mailed to Hamlin at
his address appearing on the books of the association, along
with notices of mortuary assessments made, respectively, August 1, 1883, October 1, 1883, December 1, 1883, February 1,
1884, and April 1, 1884. He became insane in the fall of
1883, and in November of that year was reinbved to a hospital
in that condition until his death,
for treatment -remaining
which occurred February 15, 1885. It was admitted at the
trial that all mortuary assessments against him prior to and
including that of April 1, 1884, were paid, and that there was
an assessment upon him of $16 on the 2d of June, 1884.
It was averred, in the defendant's answer, among other
things, that due notice according to its usual course of business,
of the mortuary assessment of June 2, 1884, was mailed at
New York, postage paid, directed to the insured at his postoffice address as appearing upon the books of the association,
namely, "Mrs. H. H. Hamlin, Norwich, Connecticut;" that
no information was given to it from any source of any failure
to receive such notice; atid that by reason of the non-payment of that assessment within the prescribed time, Hlamlin
ceased to be a member of the association, and the certificate
held by him became null and void. To this the plaintiff
replied that notice of such assessment was not mailed or sent
to the insured or to her, nor received by either; that not until
Septemlier, .1884, did she hear. of the June assessment; that
immediately after obtaining information of it, namely, on the

302

OCTOBER TER,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

6th day of September, 1884, she offered to the defendant the
amount due on that and all subsequent assessments, but the
latter refused to receive the same, claiming that the certificate
of insurance had become void, and that the insured was no
longer a member of the association. It was in proof that such
an offer was in fact made and refused; that similar offers were
made October 6, 1884, and every two months thereafter, each
of which was likewise refused upon the ground that Hamlir
had forfeited his membership in the association.
In December, 1884, application was made to the association
(by whom does not appear) in the name of Hamlin for his
reinstatement as a member. The application was denied.
This fact was also pleaded in bar of the action.
By the terms of the 'ontract the certificate of insurance
issued to iamlin became null and void, if he failed to pay,
when due, at the office of the defendant, in the city of NewYork, or to its agent, furnished with the proper receipt, any
assessment upon him. An assessment became due and payable" within thirty days from the date of each notice," that
is, from the date of the notice of such assessment. But if the
insured was entitled, of right, to notice-at least in the form
prescribed by the contract, namely, by mail, according to the
defendant's usual course of business - and such notice was not,
in fact, given, the assessment, as to him, did not become due
and payable, and he did not cease to be a member of the association by reason of his failure topay it. That he Was entitled
to notice is too clear to admit of dispute. The clause in the defendant's constitution making it the duty of "a member failing
to receive a notice of an assessment," on or before certain days,
to advise the association of the fact, and the clause in both the
constitution and the certificate of-insurance, declaring that notice directed to the insured, according to his address as appearing
upon. its books, and mailed to him according to its usual course
of business, should be deemed and held sufficient proof of compliancqe on the part of the association, necessarily imply that
it was the duty.of the association to give notice of mortuary
assessments. It is true, the insured was informed by the defendant's constitution, as amended July 11. 1883, subject to

MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION v. HAMLIN.

303

Opinion of the Court.

which the contract of insurance was executed, that assessments
would regularly be made in February, April, June, August,
October and December, or at such other periods as the di'ectors might determine. But if the kssocfation was bound to
make assessments in those months, whether made necessary or
not by its financial condition, still the insured could not know,
in advance, the amount of an assessment; for such amount
depended upon the state of the "death- fund," the 'determination of the executive committee as to the sum required "to
meet the existing claims by death," and the apportionment
of that sum among members according to their respective
ages and the rates speoified in the certificates of membership.
Now, it is contended, that the failure of the insured, in this
case, to inform the defendant in writing that he had not
received notice of the assessment of June 2, 1884, 'was alone
sufficient to forfeit his membership. This suggestion necessarily proceeds upon the ground that the association had no
discretion but to make an assessment on that day, and that
the insured must be held to have known that one was made,
although he could not have knowledge of its amount. This
construction of the defendant's constitution and by-laws may
well be doubted. We incline to the opinion that the association was not required to make an assessment except when the
condition of the "death fund" made it necessary to raise
money to meet existing claims by death. The contract- adopting almost'literally the words of the constitution -required an
assessmeht "whenever the death fund of the association is
insufficient to meet the ekisting claims by deatb," and "for
such sums .as the executive committee may deem sufficient to
cover said claims." This would indicate that an assessment
should not or would not be made unless rendered necessary by
the condition of the death fund. Be this as it may, the duty
imposed upon the insured to inform the company of his failure to receive notice of- an assessment was neither expressly,
nor by necessary implication, made a condition of the contract,
the non-performance of which would cause a forfeiture of
membership and previous payments. If the defendant did
not make an assessment, information in writing from the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

sured that he had not received notice of one would have been
an idle ceremony. If it made one, and did not give the insured notice of it -

at least in the mode prescribed -

his fail-

ure to inform the association that he had not received notice
of such assessment was immaterial and could not excuse its
failure to give the required notice.
Did the defendant give notice to the insured of the assessment of June 2, 1881 That is the controlling question in
the case. The court instructed the jury that it was not incumbent upon the defendant to prove anything more than that it
mailed a notice of the assessment to the insured according to
his address and its usual course of business, and that fact being
proved it wds entitled to a verdict whether the insured received the notice or not. Whether the clause in the certificate
of insurance relating to notice means anything more than that
proof of mailing a notice according to the defendant's usual
course of business, directed to the insured at his post-office
address as appearing upon its books, made aprimafacie case
of compliance upon its part with the terms of the contract,
leaving the insured to prove, in order to prevent a forfeiture
of his membership, that the notice was not in fact received by
or for him, we need not determine. The defendant obtained
the most favorable construction of the contract to which it
was entitled under any view, and the only question open to
it upon this writ of error is whether the court erred in holding
that the burden of proof was upon itto show that a notice
properly directed was mailed according to its usual course of
business. We are of opinion that upon this point no error was
committed. As the insured was not bound to pay an assessment of which notice was not given, at least in the mode designated, and as the duty to give such notice was, necessarily,
upon the defendant, it could not claim, a forfeiture except upon
showing that that duty was performed. But the contention
is, that the proof of such mailing was so overwhelming that
the court erred in refusing to instruct the jury to find a verdict in its favor. We do not concur in this view. Without
referring to,the evidence in detail, we content ourselves with
saying that upon the issue as to whether notice was, in fact,

MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION v. HAMLIN.

305

Opinion of the Court.

mailed, as claimed by the defendant, there was evidence both
ways. The case, upon this point, was peculiarly one for the
jury.
In this connection, it may be observed that while the defendant claims a forfeiture of the contract by reason of the failure of the insured to pay the June assessment within thirty
days after notice thereof was mailed to him -which its officers
testified must, according to the usual course of business, have
been on the evening of May 31, 1884- in its answer, verified
by the oath of its president, it stated that mortuary assess-.
ments were made upon the insured on the first days of August,
October and December, 1884, and that it mailed to him notices
of each of those assessments; that he failed toyay any one of
them; and that by reason of each one of such failures the
certificate became void. According to the theory of the defence as thus disclosed by the answer, it may wbll be inquired
why the defendant treated the insured as a member of the
association after the time when, according to its present contention, he had forfeited his right of membership? And why
did it refuse, in September, to accept payment of all previous
unpaid assessments, and yet, in Obtoher, and again in December, make further assessments upon him as a member? Notwithstanding the above allegations in the answer, it was not
claimed at the trial that notices of assessments subsequent to
that of June were mailed to the insured. The case went to
the jury upon the issue as to whether notice of the June assessment was mailed to the insured; the court ruling that if it
was so mailed, the defendant was entitled to a verdict. This
could have occurred only upon the ground that the defendant
was mistaken when it alleged in its answer that notices of
assessments made in August, October and December were
mailed to the insured. We suppose the fact to be that no
assessments were made in those months upon Hamlin; and
the defendant would have appeared to better advantage if it
had modified of record those parts of its verified answer averring not only that assessments were made in those months
upon Hamlin, but that notices thereof were mailed to him..
The whole question of mailing was left in such condition by
VOL cxxxix-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

the proof that it would have been error to take it from the
jury.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that an application was
made in December, 1884, in the name of the insured, for reinstatement as a member of the association. When information
of the June assessment was received by -Mrs. Hamlin, the
beneficiary in the contract of insurance, in September, 1884,
she promptly offered, through a friend, to 1iay all previous,
unpaid assessments upon the insured. The defendant refusing
to accept such payment, and denying that the insured was
any longer one of its members, the attempt was made to have
him reinstated by the act of the association. That attemptevidently made to avoid litigation- cannot be regarded as a
waiver of the rights the insured had as a member; for those
Tights were not forfeited by his failure to pay the assessment
-of June 2, 1884, the only one in question; notice of which, as
the jury found, was not given as required by the contract.
Numerous other points have been made on behalf of the
,defendant. But they are the merest technicalities, in nowise
involving the substantial rights of the parties. We do not
feel obliged to extend this opinion by a discussion of questions
of that character.
We find no error of law in the record, and the judgment is
.ffirmed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. BOYNTON v. BLAINE.
IERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF

'HE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 1149. Argued March 5, 6,1891. - Decided March 23,1891.

The writ of mandamus cannot issue in a case where its effect is to direct or
control the head of an executive department in the discharge-of an executive duty, involving the exercise of judgment or discretion.
When a mere ministerial duty is imposed upon the executive officers of the
government, that is, a service which they are bound to perform without
further question, then, if they refuse, the mandamus may be issued to
compel them.

