OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

and surely subsequent creditors have no right to complain if
they deal with the mortgagor with full knowledge of such
relations. Existing creditors may of course challenge the
good faith of the transaction, but if they cannot disturb an
absolute sale when made in good faith, why should they be
permitted to challenge a conditional sale if made in like good
faith? The fact that fraudulent relations are possible, is
.l1ardly a sufficient reason for denouncing transactions which
are not fraudulent. So, if the question were open, or a new
one, unaffected by any settled law of the State, we incline to
the opinion that the question is not one of law, so much as it
is one of fact and good faith, and that the decision of the
Supreme Court of Iowa rests on sound principles. Jewell v.
Zhigkt, 123 U. S. 426; Smitk v. Craft, 123 U. S.436. Reference may also be made to the opinion of Mr. Justice Bradley, of this court, holding the Circuit Court in the Western
District of Texas, Ba,ron v. _Morris, 14 Nat. Bank. 2Reg. 371,
and the opinion of Mr. Justice Strong in the Circuit Court in
New Jersey, in Xiller v. Jones, 15 Nat. Bank. Reg. 150.
We see no error in the decision of the Supreme Court of
Affirmed.
Iowa, and it is

UIITED STATES v. BREWER.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 1178.

Argued and submitted March 13, 1891:-Decided liarch 23, 1891.

Sections 1067, 1068 and 1070 of the Code of Tennessee of 1884, by Milliken
& Vertrees do not require that, after an election, the ballot-box shall
lie opened at the place where the election was held, and the names of the
persons appearing in each ballot be read aloud at that place, and the
ballot-box not be removed from that place before the votes are counted,
so as to make an indictment good, under § 5515 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, relating to an election at which a Representative
or Delegate in Congress is voted for, which alleges, as a neglect or refusal" to perform a duty, required of the officer of, an election, by a law

UNITED STATES v. BREWER.
Opinion of the Court.
of a State, and as a violation of a duty imposed by such law, a failure to
open the ballot-box at that place, and a failure to read aloud such names
at that place, and the-removing of the ballot-box from that place before
the votes were counted, no fraud being averred in the indictment, and no
intent to affect the election or its result, and there being no allegation
that the election or its result was affected.
Two questions in a certificate of division in a criminal case were not answered, because they were too general, one being whether a demurrer to
an indictment ought to be sustained, and the other being whether the
matters alleged in the indictment constituted an offence under the statute
of the United States.
A question was not answered, because the answers to other questions disposed of the case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

A r. Solicitor General for plaintiff. -Yr. Attorney General
was on the brief.
-Mr. JuliusA. Taylor for defendants submitted on his brief.
MR. JUsTICE BLATCirFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment against three persons, found in the
•Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Tennessee, under section 5515 of the Revised Statutes.
That section, with its punctuation, as published in the
second edition of the Revised Statutes, is as follows: "SEC.
5515. Every officer of an election at which any Representative
or Delegate in Congress is voted for, whether such officer of
election be appointed or created by or under any law or authority of the United States, or by or under any State, territorial, district or municipal law or authority, who neglects or
refuses to perform any duty in regard to such election required
of him by gny law of the United States, or of any State or
- Territory thereof ; or who violates any duty-so imposed; or
who knowingly does any acts thereby unauthorized, with intent to affect any such election, or the result thereof; or who
fraudulently makes any false certificate of the result of such
election in regard to such Representative or Delegate; or who
-withholds, coficeals or destroys any certificate of record so

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

required by law respecting the election of any such Representative or Delegate; or who neglects or refuses to make and
return such certificate as required by law; or who aids, counsels, procures or advises any voter, person, or officer to do any
act by this or any of the preceding sections made a crime, or
to omit to do any duty the omission of which is by this or any
of such sections made a crime, or attempts to do so, shall be
punished as prescribed in section fifty-five hundred and eleven.'.'
It purports to be a reenactment of section 22 of the act of
May 31, 1870, ch. 114, (16 Stat. 145,) which, with its punctua.
tion, as published, was as follows : "S Ec.
22. And be itfurther
enacted, That any officer of any election at which any representative or delegate in the Congress of the United States shall
be vqted for, whether such officer of election be appointed or
created by or under any law or authority of the United States,
or by or under any State, territorial, district or municipal law
or authority, who shall neglect or refuse to perform any duty
in regard to such election required of him by any law of the
United States, or of any State or Territory thereof ; or violate
any duty so imposed, or knowingly do any act thereby unauthorized, with intent to affect any such election, or the
result thereof; or fraudulently make any false certificate of
the result of such election in regard to such representative or
delegate; or withhold, conceal or destroy any certificate of
record so required by law respecting, concerning or pertaining
to the election of any such representative or delegate; or
neglect or refuse to make and return the same as so required
by law; or aid, counsel, procure or advise any voter, person
or officer to do any act by this or any of the preceding sections made a crime; or to omit to do any duty the omission
of which is by this or any of said sections made a crime, or
attempt to do so, shall be deemed guilty of a crime and shall
be liable to prosecution and punishment therefor, as provided
in the nineteenth section of this act for persons guilty of any
of the crimes therein specified."
The indictment originally contained four counts. The first
count alleged that on the 6th of November, 1888, in the
county of Shelby, Tennessee, at the third ward of Memphis,

UNITED STATES v. BREWER.
Opinion of the Court.

an election for a Representative in the Congress of the United
States for the Tenth Congressional District of Tennessee was
held, at the southeast cornef of Gayoso and Second Streets,
:Memphis, in the fourteenth civil district of that county; that
at that election two of the defendants were the judges thereof
and the other was the returning officer thereof, holding the
election, "at which election such representative in Congress
was then and there voted for; that it then and there thereby
became and was the luty (among others) of the said judges
and returning officer of said election, when the same was finished and after the polls were closed, then and there at the
said place of holding the same, and at the place where the
ballots were cast at said election, to open the ballot-box then
and there used at said election and then and there containing
the ballots cast at said election, in the presence of such of the
electors at said election as might choose to attend, and to read
aloud the names of the persons which should appear in each
ballot in the said ballot-box so cast at said election;" and
that the defendants did then and there "unlawfully neglect
to perform their said duty in regard to the said election, as
required of them by law, by then and there, and after the said
election was finished, and after the polls at said election were
closed, and before the counting of the votes cast at said election, failing to so open the said ballot-box at the place where
the said election was held, and to so then and there at the
place last aforesaid read aloud the names of the persons which
should then and there appear in each ballot in the said ballotbox, the same being the duly designated place of holding the
said election."
The second count, with the same preliminary allegations as
in the first count, averred that the defendants unlawfully refused to perform their said duty, by failing to do what it was
alleged in the first count they failed to do, "arid by then and
there, and after the said election was finished and the polls
thereof were closed, unlawfully removing the said ballot-box
from the place where the said electioA was held, and before
the counting of the votes cast at the said election, the same
being the duly designated place of holding the said election."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The third count, after making the same preliminary allegations, averred that the- defendants did unlawfully violate
their said duty by failing to do what it was alleged in the first
and second counts they failed to do, and by unlawfully removing the ballot-box as averred in the second count.
The fourth count averred that the defendants did "unlawfully and knowingly, and with intent to affect the said election and the result thereof, and after the said election was
finished, and after the polls at said election were closed, and
before the counting of the votes cast at said election, remove
the ballot-box used at said election, and then and there containing the ballots cast at said election, from the 'place aforesaid where the said election was held, the same being the duly
designated place of holding the said election, such removal of
the said ballot-box being unauthorized by law, and contrary
to the form of the statute in such* cases made and provided,
and against the peace and dignity of the United States of
America."
The indictment is based on the view that certain sections of
the statutes of Tennessee. must be so construed as to require
that the ballot-box shall not be removed from the place where
the election was held, before the votes cast are counted, and
that they shall be counted at the place where the election was
held, immediately after the closing of the polls.
The defendants being brought into court, a nolle prosequi
as to the fourth count was entered, on motion of the district
attorney. The defendants demurred to the other three counts,
setting forth the following grounds of demurrer:
"1. Because the matters and things stated and set forth in
said three counts, in manner and form as therein contained,
do not constitute offences against the laws of the United
States and do not come within the purview, true intent and
meaning of section 5515 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, nor of any act of the Congress of the United States of
America.
"2. Because there was'no duty imposed by the laws of the
State of Tennessee, or by the laws of the United States, or
otherwise, (as stated and set forth in each of said three counts

UITED STATES v. BREWER.
Opinion of the Court.

of said indictment,) upon these defendants; as ' said judges and
returning officer of said election, when the same was finished
and after the polls were closed, then and there, and at the
place of holding the same, and at the place where the ballots
were cast at the said election, to open the ballot-box then and
there used at said election,' in manner and form as the said
duty is alleged in said three counts.
"3. Because the first count of said indictment and the matters and things therein containea, in the manner and form as
the same are therein stated and set forth, do not allege any
crime or offence against the laws of the United States, or a
neglect to perform any duty imposed by the laws of the State
of Tennessee, or otherwise, upon these defendants, as returning
officer and judges of the said election.
"4. Because the matters and things contained in the second
count of said indictment, in manner and form as the same are
therein stated and set forth, do not allege the refusal to perform any duty imposed by the laws of the State of Tennessee,
or otherwise, upon these defendants, as judges and returning
officer of the said election.
"5. Because the matters and things contained in the third
count of said indictment, in manner and form, as the same are
therein stated and set forth, do not allege the violation of any
duty imposed by the laws of the State of Tennessee, or otherwise, upon these defendants, as returning officer and judges of
the said election.
"6. Because neither the laws of the State of Tennessee nor
the laws of the United States made it the duty of these defendants, as returning officer and judges of the said election, ' when
the same was finished and after the polls were closed,' to open
the ballot-box then and there used at the said election 'at the
said place of holding the same and at the place where the ballots were cast at said election,' in manner and form as such
duty is stated and set forth in each of said three counts of said
indictment.
"7. Because a removal of the ballot-box used at said election 'from the place where said election was held, and before
the counting of the votes cast at said election,' as alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

against these defendants in the second count of said indictment, was not in law a refusal by the~e defendants, as'such
returning officer and judges, to perform any duty imposed
upon them by the laws of the State of Tennessee or of the
United States, or otherwise, in manner and form as such duty
is stated and set forth in said second count of the said indictment.
"8. Because the removing by these defendants, as alleged
in the third count of the said indictment, of the ballot-box,
'from the place where said election was held and before the
counting of the votes cast at said election, the same being the
duly designated place of holding said election,' was in violation
of no duty imposed by the laws of the State of Tennessee, or
of the United States, or otherwise, upon these defendants, as
such returning officer and judges, as such duty is stated and
set forth in the said third count of said indictment.
"9. Becapse there is no allegation in any of the first three
counts of said indictment of an intent on the part of these
defendants, or any or either of them, to affect the said election
or the result thereof.
"10. Because, as the duty stated and set forth in each of
the first three counts of said indictment was not imposed by
any law of the State of Tennessee, or of the United States, or
otherwise, upon the defendants, as such judges and returning
officer, the matters and things in said three counts in manner
and form as therein contained do not constitute offences
against the provisions of section 5515 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, nor of any law of the United States,
there being in no one of said counts, any allegation of an intent on the part of these defendants to affect the said election
or. the result thereof."
There was a joinder in the demurrer, and it was argued
before the court, held by the Circuit Judge and the District
Judge. They were divided in opinion on the questions raised
by the demurrer, and certified to this court the points upon
which they disagreed, as'follows:
"1. Whether the said demurrer, so filed, to the first three
counts of the indictment aforesaid, ought to be sustained.

UNITED STATES v. BREWER.
Opinion of the Court.

"2. Whether the matters and things alleged and set forth
in the first three counts of said indictment constitute an offence
or offences under section 5515 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, or under any other law or statute of the United
States.
"3. Whether the laws of the State of Tennessee imposed
upon said defendants, as such returning officer and judges of
election, at the said election, the duty, when the election was
finished and after the polls were closed, of opening the ballotbox used at the said election, at the place of holding the same,
to wit, at the place where the ballots of said election were
cast.
"4. Whether, under the laws of the State of Tennessee, it
was a violation of duty imposed upon the defendants, as such
judges and officer of election, at the said election, for said
defendants, when the said election was finished and after the
polls were closed, to remove the ballot-box used at said election from the place where the same was held, and where the
ballots were cast at said election, to another place, for the
purpose of opening the said ballot-box and reading aloud
the names of the persons appearing on each ballot, as contemplated by section 1068 of the Code of Tennessee, (Milliken &
Yertrees' edition).
"5. Whether it was the duty, under the laws of the State
of Tennessee, of the said defendants, as judges and officer of
the said election, after the same was finished and after the
polls at said election were closed, to open the ballot-box used
at said election, to wit, at the southeast corner of Gayoso
and Second Streets, in Mfemphis, Tennessee, the same being
the duly designated place of holding said election, and the
place where said election was held, and to there read aloud
the names of the persons appearing on each ballot cast at said
election, as contemplated by said section 1068- of the Code of
Tennessee.
"6. Whether it was a violation of duty imposed by the .laws
of the State of Tennessee upon the defendants as judges and
officer of said election, when the same was finished, and after
the polls at said election were closed, and before the counting

OCTOBER TERAE, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of the votes cast at said election, to remove the said ballot-box
from the southeast corner of Gayoso and Second Streets, in
Memphis, Tennessee, that being the designated place of holding said election and the place where the same was held, for
the purpose of opening the said ballot-box and reading aloud
the names of the persons appearing on each ballot cast at said
election, as contemplated by said section 1068 of the Code of
Tennessee.
"17. Whether it was a neglect or refusal of duty imposed by
the laws of the State of Tennessee upon the defendants, as
judges and officer of the said election, when the same was
finished, and after the polls at said election were closed, and
before the counting of the votes cast at said election, to fail
to open the ballot-box used at said election at the southeast
corner of Gayoso and Second streets, in Memphis, Tennessee,
that being the duly designated place of holding said election,
and the place where the same was held, and to there read
aloud the names of the persons appearing on each ballot cast
at said election, as contemplated by said section 1068 of said
Code of Tennessee.
"8. Whether the first three counts of said indictment, or
any of them, are bad because no one of the said counts contains an allegation that the matters and things therein respectively charged and set forth against said defendants, as judges
and officer of the election aforesaid, were so done by them
with intent to affect the said election and the result thereof."
The first two questions certified are in such a general form
that this court cannot answer them, as has been repeatedly
held. United States v. 2Northway, 120 U. S. 327; Dublin
Townshap v. Milford Savings Institution, 128 U. S.510, 514;
United States v. Hall, 131 U. S. 50; United States v. Lacher,
134 U. S. 624, 632.
As to questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, we are of opinion that they
must be answered in the negative.
The statutes of Tennessee which relate particularly to the
question involved are sections 1067, 1068 and 1070,of the Code
of Tennessee of 1884, by Milliken & Vertrees, which are as
follows: "See. 1067. The officer or person and judges ap-

UNITED STATES v. BREWER.
Opinion of the Court.

pointed to hold an election shall not proceed to or commence
counting out the votes given in the election until the polls
shall have been closed. See. 1068. When the election is finished, the returning officer and judges shall, in the presence of
such of the electors as may choose to attend, open the box and
read aloud the names of the persons which shall appear in
each ballot; and the clerks, at the same time, shall number
the ballots, each clerk separately." "Sec. 1070. The inspectors have authority to maintain regularity and order in the
balloting; to keep access to the polls free and unobstructed;
to prevent all disorderly and riotous conduct during the
election, and during the counting of the votes after the polls
are closed; and. for this purpose they are vested with all the
powers of a peace officer."
It is contended that these sections impliedly require that the
box shall be-opened, and the names of the persons appearing
in each ballot read .aloud, at the place where the election was
held, and that the ballot-box shall not be removed from the
place where the election was held before the votes are counted.
But tbis"is urged merely as an implication. The statute does
not provide distinctly and specifically, and in words required
in a criminal statute, that the box shall be opened at the place
where the election was held, and the names of the persons
appearing in each ballot be read aloud at that place, and the
ballot-box not be removed from that place before the votes
cast are counted.
We are not referred to any statute of Tennessee, or to any
construction given by its courts to the sections of the statute
above referred to, which declares it to be the duty of the
officers of election to count the votes at the place where the
elecfion was held. The implication of the decision in .AfcCraw
v. Hairalson,,(4 Coldwell, 34, 44, 45,) made in 1867, is to the
contrary. In that case, section 864 of 1 Thompson & Steger's
Statutes of 1871, which section was enacted in 1835, provided
that "the officer or person holding any election of county
officers shall compare the polls at the court-house, on the first
Monday after said election, and shall deliver to each person
elected a certificate of his election." The officers holding the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

election in controversy did not compare the polls at the courthouse, but counted the votes in a private house in the town in
which the court-house was situated; and the court held that,
the returns having been made to the court-house, and the
county court being in session, the counting of the votes at a
private house in the town was a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of the statute, and ionstituted no ground, in the
absence of all fraud or misconduct in comparing the polls and
counting the votes, for setting aside the election.
Laws which create crime ought to be so explicit that all
men subject to their penalties may know what acts it is their
duty to avoid. United States v. Shap, Pet. C. 0. 118. Before a man can be punished, his case must be plainly and
unmistakably within the statute. Uniited States v. Lacher,
134 U. S. 624, 628. We are of opinion, thereforethat questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 must be answered in the negative, no
fraud being averred in the indictment, and no intent to affect
the election or its result, and there being no allegation that
the election or its result was affected.
This disposition of questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 requires that
the demurrer to the indictment be sustained, and makes it
unnecessary to answer question S.
Questions 1 and 2 4re not answered because. they are too
general. Questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are answered in the
negative, and question 8 is not answered because it is unnecessary to answer it.

EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v. FRAZIER.
ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

STATE

OF TENNESSEE.

No. 1407. Submitted March 9, 1891.-Decided March 23, 1891.

When the pleadings in the trial court of a State, the assignment of error
in the Supreme Court of the State, the opinion of the latter court and
its original decree present no federal question, and two (lays later on

