GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. GREEN COVE RAILROAD. 137,
Statement of the Case.

other compensation than the customary charges for transportation.
Decree afflrmed.

GUARANTY

TRUST AND

SAFE

DEPOSIT COM-.

PANY v. GREEN COVE SPRINGS AND 'MELROSE

RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE IORTHERNq DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

I'No.
155. Submitted January 21, 1891. -Decided March 2, 1891.
Limitations upon the power of a trustee in a railroad mortgage to take proceedings to enforce payment of the amount secured should be construed strictly.
A provision in a mortgage that the mode of sale provided by it "shall be
exclusive of all others" is an attempt to provide against a remedy in the
ordinary course of judicial proceedings and oust the jurisdiction of the
courts, and is therefore invalid.
A provision in a statute authorizing notice to be given to an absent defendant to appear, by publishing the same in a newspaper once a week for
four months, is not satisfied by a publication once a week for four lunar
months; but the word" month" when so used signifies a calendar month.
To support a decree for foreclosure against an absent defendant brought
in by publication, publication for the full period required is necessary.
Cooper v. .eynolds, 10 Wall. 308, distinguished.

Tins was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of Florida dismissing a bill of foreclosure filed by the appellant to which the Green Cove Springs
and Melrose Railroad Company, the Western Railway Company, the Green Cove Springs and Midland Railroad Company, and a'number of other individual defendants were made
parties. The mortgage or deed of trust was made June 20,
1882, by the Green Cove Springs and Melrose Railroad Company to the plaintiff to secure its bonds, and the bill averred
$25,000 of such bonds to be outstanding and unpaid, and also
contained the usual allegations with regard to the non-payment of interest coupons. The bill further averred, in substance, that the company had lost possession of its road and

OOTOBED. TERE2,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

other property, which was in the possession of and operated
by other parties under a pretended sale made August 3, 1885,
in pursuance of certain judicial proceedings in the Circuit
Court of Clay County, Florida, but claimed that notwithstanding such sale, its lien under the mortgage was not discharged
or extinguished. These proceedings were instituted by certain
persons composing the firm of Budington, Wilson & Co., who,
on July 25, 1884, began a suit in equity in the Circuit Court
for Clay County against such railroad company and one
Canova,. in which the plaintiff, the Trust and Safe Deposit
Company, was also mentioned in the stating part of such bill
as defendant. It appeared that such suit was begun to enforce
a statutory lien for work ana labor; that there was no prayer
for a foreclosure of plaintiff's deed of trust, nor other relief
against the grantee in said deed; nor was any case stated in
hostility to the deed or the lien thereunder. It was further
alleged that an attempt was made to serve the grantee in the
deed by a publication of a notice in accordance with the statute of Florida in the ca§e of, a non-resident defendant, but that
such statute was not complied with; that no notice was ever
served ulpon the plaintiff, either by publication or otherwise,
and the court had no jurisdiction of the person of the plaintiff
in such suit, and the sale thereunder was null and void; that
at no time before or at the commencement of the publication
of the order to appear, nor at any time during the publication
of said order, did the state cotirt take possession of said road,
or of any of its property by attachment, receiver or other
process made or issued in said suit; that on January 16, 1885,
a decree pro confesso was entered for want of the appearance
of plaintiffs therein; that on IMarch 11, 1885, the firm of Budington & Wilson, a distinct and separate firm from Budington,
Wilson & Company, and one Osias A. Budington, intervened
in said suit by petition, and alleged a new and distinct cause
of action against the defendant railroad company, not stated
in the original bill of complaint, namely, a statutory lien for
labor performed for the sum of $1'700, and said Budington
also averred that he had recovered a judgment against said
company for the sum of $1012.50, and they prayed for leave

GUARANTY TRUST CO. ,v. GREEN COVE RAILROAD. 139
Statement of the Case.
to prove their claims in said suit. But neither of the said
intervenors prayed any relief against the grantee in the deed
of trust, nor did either of them, nor did any person in their
behalf, serve or attempt to serve any notice on said grantee of
the filing of said petition, nor the claims therein asserted. It
was further alleged that on the 12th of November, 1884, the
several parties who had appeared in the said suit entered into
an agreement for a sale of the road, which took place on
August 3, 1885; the defendant Greely becoming the purchaser
as trustee for himself and all others who had filed claims or
demands against said company, for the sum of $20,000: and
that subsequently, and under an agreement of the various
creditors of the road who had transferred their claims to
Greely, consenting that he should organize a new company,
he executed a lease of the road to a corporation known as the
Western Railway Company, by which it was agreed that such
company should pay by way of rent eight per cent per annum
upon a valuation of $30,000, for five years. The bill further
charged that "the feeble defence and supineness and indifference to the interests of the said bondholders on the part of the
said Green Cove Springs and Melrose Railroad Company, its
directors and officers, as shown by the said judicial proceedings
in said state court, if the same was intended to affect and destroy the lien of said deed of trust,was and is a fraud upon the
rights of the said trustee and said bondholders;" that the sale
and subsequent proceedings were fraudulent, and should be
vacated and set aside; "that said company, grantor in said
deed of trust, in effect consented to a sale of said road to pay
simple contract debts and demands, which were not a lien
upon its property paramount to said lien created by said deed
of trust, and many of which had not been reduced to judgment:" that every lien for work and labor performed was
declared by the decree of the court in favor of persons who
were not parties to the original bill of Budington, Wilson &
Co., but who had come into said cause long subsequent to the
decree pmo confesso, and asserted their claims thereafter, of
which said grantee and bondholders had no knowledge whatever: that the aggregate amount of the said statutory liens so

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.-

found to exist was less than $700; that no time for redemption
was allowed, but on the contrary "a decree of sale was made
before the indebtedness claimed to be due was ascertained,
whereby no party in interest was given any time or opportunity to redeem or pay said indebtedness." The bill prayed for
a receiver and injunction against the transfer or encumbering
of the road; a decree of foreclosure of the deed of trust; and
for a decree declaring the sale under the judicial proceedings
in the state court to be null and void, as against the plaintiff
and the bona ,ide holders of any of its bonds.
Two answers were filed to the .bill, which presented three
distinct defences. First, that the mortgage or deed of trust
required that 60 per ent in value of the outstanding bondholders should request the trustee in writing to initiate proceedings, and that no such request was alleged in the bill.
Second, that plaintiff herein, the Guaranty Trust and,.afe
Deposit Company, was a party defendant to the proceedings
in the state court, was bound by the decree and sale in that
court, and that such sale extinguished the lien of the mortgage sought to be enforced in this suit. Third, that there
were no bonds of the railroad company which executed the
mortgage to the plaintiff legally outstanding, and consequently
it had not sufficient interest or title to maintain its suit. A
decree was entered in the Circuit Court dismissing the bill, but
no opinion appears to have been delivered or filed.
.A&. EI. Bisbee for appellant.
.Mr. . C. Cooper for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE BzowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. The answer of Philip J. Canova raises an objection to the
maintenance of this bill in the fact that sixty per cent in value
of the bondholders had not requested action upon the part of
the trustee, as required by the trust deed, which, in covenant
numbered second, provides in substance that, in case of default

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. GREEN COVE RAILROAD. 141
Opinion of the Court.

after demand made, for a period exceeding twelve months, to
pay the semi-annual interest upon the bonds, or for a period
exceeding six months to pay the principal of such bonds, "it
shall be the duty of the said trustees for the time being, and
they shall or will, upon written request of the holders of sixty
per centum of the said bonds then outstanding, enter upon
and take possession of the said railroad property and estate,"
and operate the same, appropriating the net income to the
best advantage, etc., "or the said trustee shall and will,
after or without entering upon or taking such possession,
upon the written request of the holders of bonds of a like
amount, proceed upon and under this indenture of mortgage
to sell the railroad property and estate, . . . at public
sale, in the city of Philadelphia, first giving at least four
weeks' notice by publication, etc.," and grant and convey the
same to the purchaser, fr-eed from all and every trust hereby
created, etc."
As there is no averment in the bill that sixty per cent of the
owners of the outstanding bonds had requested action on the
part of the trustee, it is insisted that these proceedings were
instituted without authority, and the case of Chicago &c.
Railroad co. v. Fosdick, 106 U. S. 41, 77, is claimed to be
decisive of this question. In that case, which was a bill for
foreclosure, the proviso was that the trustee, upon the written
request of the holders of a majority of the bonds then outstanding, should proceed to collect both principal and interest
of all such bonds outstanding, by foreclosure and sale of said
property, or otherwise, as therein provided. It was argued
that the office of this clause was merely to make the obligation of the trustees imperative instead of optional, but the
court held that.the whole article must be taken together as a
unit, and "the nature of the provision and the character of its
object must be taken into consideration as furnishing the rule
of its interpretation." . It will' be observed, however, that the
proviso was directed against the very proceeding taken by the
trustee in the suit, namely, a foreclosure and sale of the property; while in the present case. it is directed only to a taking
possession, or a sale lnder the deed of trust without the institution o&le,:il p'ocpeding-s.

OCTOBER TERM 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

A case nearer in point is that bf 2forgan's Steamship Co. v.
Texas CentralRailway, 137 U. S. 171, decided at the present
term, In which the condition was that on default continuing
for sixty days in the payment of interest or any part of principal, the principal, of the bonds should become immediately
due, and that upon request of seventy-five per cent of the
holders of bonds, and written notice of the same, the trustee
should take possession of the property, and operate it for the

benefit of the bondholders, and that upon like request he
should proceed to foreclose the mortgage and sell the property
to the highest bidder for cash. It was also provided that
nothing contained in the instrument should be construed to
prevent or interfere with the foreclosure by any court of competent jurisdiction. It was held that the trustee could maintain a bill to foreclose the mortgage upon occurrence of a
default, without averring or proving a request of seventy-five

per cent of the bondholders, as such request was necessary
only in case the trustee wished to proceed to foreclose or take

possession ex mero motu without the intervention of a court.
We think that such limitations upon the power of the trustee
to take legal proceedings to enforce payment of the amount
secured, should be strictly construed. In this case, the condition only relates to the taking possession of the property
under the deed of trust, or to a sale in the city of Philadelphia,
under the power of sale contained therein, and we think it
should not be held to apply to foreclosure proceedings begun
in a court of competent jurisdiction to obtain a judicial sale of
the property. This was the ruling in the Eighth Circuit, by
Judge Dillon in Alexander v. Central Railroad of Iowa, 3
Dillon, 487; and by Judge Caldwell in Credit Co. v. Arkansas Central Railroad Company, 15 Fed. Rep. 46; and we think
it is sound.
It is true there is a subsequent provision in the deed of trust
to the effect that neither the whole nor any part of the premiseAmortgaged shall be sold, under proceedings either at law
or~equity, for the recovery of the principal or interest of the
the intention and agreement of the parties that
',onds, it being
the mode of sale provided by the mortgage " shall be exclusive

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. GREEN COVE RAILROAD. 143
Opinion of the Court.

of all others." This clause, however, is open to the objection
of attempting to provide against a remedy in the ordinary
course of judicial proceedings, and oust the jurisdiction of the
courts, which, as is settled by the uniform current of authority,
cannot be done. Hope v. International Society, 4 Ch. D. 327;
Edwards v. Aberayron Ins. Society, 1 Q. B. D. 563; Horton
v. Sayer, 4 H. & N. 643; 'Scott v. Avery, 8 Exch. 487; S. .
5 H. L. Gas. 811; Thompson v. Charnock, 8 T. R. 139; .Xitchell
v. Harris, 2 Yes. Jun. 129; Tobey v. County of Bristol, 3
Story, 800; lYoyes v. .MYrsh, 123 Mass. 286; Zing v. Howard,
27 Missouri, 21; Conner v. Drake, 1 Ohio St. 166; Trott v.
City ins. Co., 1 Cliff. 439; 2 Story Eq. § 1457.
Again; it is evident that this was a condition for the benefit
of the grantor and its assigns, and that intervening lien holders,
and those who have purchased the property under decrees in
their favor, do not stand in a position to take advantage of
this covenant. The sole object of the covenant was to protect the mortgagor against a seizure and sale of its property
for non-payment of interest or principal at the mere caprice of
the trustee, or without the consent of a majority of the bondholders, and it has no application to a case where the mortgagors have already lost the property under adverse proceedings instituted by parties having no connection with the
mortgage.
2. The validity of the sale in the state court is attacked
upon the ground that proper notice of the proceedings was not
given to the plaintiff in this case, as required by the Florida
statute, which provides, in substance, that non-resident defendants may be required to appear, if residing within the
United States, within four months, by a.publication to be made
once a week for the four months. The facts with regard to the
publication in this case are as follows: On February 23, 1884,
Philip J. Canova filed a. bill in the state court against the
Green Cove Springs and Melrose Railroad Company. The
gravamen of the bill was that the company owed Canova over
$19,000 as contractor, and that he had a lien as such contractor superior to the lien of the bonds secured by the mortgage to the plaintiff in this case. Plaintiff was not named a.

OCTOBER TER[, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant in that bill, On the day the bill was filed the state
court appointed a receiver of the property.
In the latter part of July, 1884, Budington, Wilson & Company filed a bill in the same court against the Green Cove
Springs and Melrose Railroad Company, Philip J. Canova, the
Chester Construction Company and the Guaranty Trust and
Safe Deposit Company, plaintiff in this suit, to recover for
labor in building the road, and to enforce the payment of
certain of these bonds deposited with it as collateral security.
On the 6th of February, 1885, these two suits in the state
court were, b3y order of that cburt, consolidated, and thereafter
proceeded as one suit. Before this consolidation was effected,
however, and on July 29, 1884, the court made an order that
the Trust and Safe Deposit Company appear and answer the
bill of complaint on or before the first Monday of December,
1884, "otherwise the complainants' said bill shall be taken _Pro
confesso." It was further ordered that this order "be published once a week for four months in some paper published
in Clay County, Florida." The only evidence of publication
appears from the affidavit of H. E. Bemis, the business manager of the "Springs," a newspaper published in the town
of Green Cove Springs, that the foregoing notice "was duly
published in the said newspaper for nineteen consecutive weeks
prior to this date, to the best of his knowledge and belief."
This affidavit was made and subscribed the 15th day of
December, 1884. The testimony further established that the
newspaper was published on Saturday of each week, and is
the manager swears that it .was published for nineteen consecutive weeks prior to this date, the last. publication must
have been upon Saturday, December 13, and the first publication on the 9th of August. The notice, however, required
the absent defendants to appear and answer the bill on or
before the first Monday in December, which was the first day
of the month; hence, there could have been only seventeen
publications, including the first on the 9th of August, before
the day the defendants were required to answer, and from this
day to the first Monday of December would be only 114 days,
more than four lunar months, but eight -days less than four
calendar months, before the first of December.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. GREEN COVE RAILROAD. 145
Opinion of the Court.

The regularity of the proceedings then resolves itself into
the question whether the provision that publication shall be
made once a week for four months is satisfied by a publication
for sixteen weeks or four lunar months. We think it is not.
It is the settled law both of this court, and of the Supreme
Court of Florida, that the word "month," when used in contracts or statutes, must be construed, where the parties have
not themselves given to it a definition, and there is no legislative provision on the subject, to mean calendar and not lunar
months. In Sheets v. Selden's Lessee, 2 Wall. 177, it was
applied to proceedings for the forfeiture of a lease. It was
contended in that case that in the absence of any legislative
provisibn on the subject, the term must be construed to mean
lunar and not calendar months, in accordance with the English.
rule, but it was held that the term was not technical, that it
must be construed in its ordinary and general sense, and that.
in this sense calendar months are always understood. In
Bacon v. State, 22 Florida, 46, it was applied to the limitation
by law of the time for presenting a bill of exceptions to the
judge for allowance, the court holding that where the term
month is used in an order of this kind, and no other meaning
is given to it by the terms of such order, it should be construed
as meaning a calendar month. "Such has been the practical
construction of the word in this State in matters of practice."
In both cases the old English rule was alluded to and disapproved. Indeed, that rule, which was apparently general,
except as applied to bills of exchange and other commercial
contracts, never seems to have obtained any substantial foothold in this country, though followed reluctantly in some of
the older decisions, and has been practically abolished in all
the States, either by express statute or by judicial interpretation. The word was held to import a calendar month as
early as 1794, in the Circuit Court for the District of Pennsylvania, in construing an act of the legislature, (Br'udenellv.
l'aum, 2 Dall. 302,) and in 1808, in the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, it was said that "in this State, as well
before as since the Revolution, a month mentioned generally
in any act had immemorially been considered as a calendar
VOL. CXXXIX- 10

OCTOBER' TERMAr, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

mnonth." Avery v. Pixley, 4 Mass. 460, 461. Indeed, the
English rule was not adopted without a protest from Lord
KRenyon, one of the most eminent of her common law judges,
in 1acon v. ffooyer, 6 T. R. 226, and was abolished by statute
in 1850. 13 & 14 Vict. c. 21.
It is claimed, however, that as the proceeding to foreclose
this deed was in rem, the seizure of the property proceeded
against was the foundation of the jurisdiction of the court,
and that a defective publication of notice, though it might
reverse a judgment in such a case for error in departing from
the directions of the statute, does not render such a judgment,
or the subsequent proceedings, void; and the case of Cooper
v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, is relied upon in support of this
position. While the ruling of this court in that case appears
to have been that jurisdiction is acquired by an actual seizure
of the property attached, and that defective or irregular affidavits and publications of notice do not render such a judgment void, the case really turned upon the fact that the suit
was begun by a seizure of the property of the defendant under
a writ of attachment, and in that respect it is distinguishable
from this case; for although the court was in possession of the
property proceeded against in the bill filed by Budington,
Wilson & Co., to which the Trust and Safe Deposit Company
was defendant, such-receiver had been appointed upon the bill
filed by Canova, to which the plaintiff was not made a party;
and the order consolidating that cause with the suit by Budington, Wilson & Co., in which the plaintiff was named as
party, and in which itwas attempted to obtain service by
publication, was not made until February 6, 1885, two months
after the expiration of the time within which the notice of
publication required the plaintiff to answer, and after a decree
pro confesso had been taken against it. The receivership could
not have the effect of subjecting the, property to the control
of the court in the particular bill filed by Budington, Wilson
& Co. against the plaintiff, until the order of consolidation
which, as before stated, was after the time limited for plaintiff's appearance, and after an order pro con?/esso had been
entered against it. The case of Cooper v. Reyno7ds was one

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. GiEN COVE RAILROAD. 147
Opinion of the Court.
where property was seized by virtue of an attachment taken
out at the commencement of the suit in which the proceedings
to call in the non-resident defendant were had, and the record
asserted that "publication had been made according to law."
Indeed, Mr. Justice Miller said in that case, p. 319, "we do
not deny that there are cases . . . in which the legislature
has properly made the jurisdiction to depend on this publication of notice, or on bringing the suit to the notice of the
party in some other mode, when he is not within the territorial
jurisdiction." It was said by Mr. Justice Wayne, in Milliamson v. Berry, 8 How. 495, 540, in reply to an argument that a
decree in chancery could not be looked into in a collateral
way, that "it is an equally well-settled rule in jurisprudence,
that the jurisdiction of any court exercising authority over a
subject may be inquired into in every other court, when the
proceedings in the former are relied, upon, and brought before
the latter, by a party claiming the benefit of such proceedings.
The rule prevails whether the decree or judgment has been
given in a court of admiralty, chancery, ecclesiastical court
or court of common law." The decisions of this court upon
this subject, beginning in the year 1794 with the case of The
Betsey, 3 Dall. 6, have been uniform and consistent. The following are a few of the leading cases upon this subject: Rose
v. Hiely, 4 Oranch, 241; Elliott v. Peirsol,1 Pet. 328; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; 8hriver's Lessee v. Zynn, 2 How.
43; Lessee of Hickey v. &Sewart,
3 How. 750; Webster v. Reid,
11 How. 437. In the last case it was held that where jurisdiction had been sought to be obtained by publication, as
in this case, it was necessary to show that notice had been
given by publication as the act required. "If jurisdiction,"
says the court, "could be exercised under the act, it was essential to show that. all its requisites had been substantially
observed. It was necessary for the plaintiff to prove notice,
and negative proof that the notice was not given, under such
circumstances, could not be rejected." In funt v. lVickliffe,
2-Pet. 201, an order was made by a state court of chancery
for a non-resident to appear, and that a copy be published
"for eight weeks in succession agreeably to law," and it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

held that, as the laws of Kentucky only authorized their courts
of chancery t9 make decrees against absent defendants on the
publication of an order for two months successively, the order
of the court of chancery for a publication for eight weeks was
not a compliance with the law, the Supreme Court of Kentucky having decided that the publication must be continued
for two calendar months. Under this construction of the act,
the decree was made against persons who were not parties to
the suit, and it was held that it could not affect them. So in
Ga4pin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350, it was held that when by legislation of a State constructive service of process by publication
is substituted in place of personal service, the statutory provision must be strictly pursued in order to bind a citizen of
another State not personally served. "Whenever," says Mr.
Justice Field, "it appears from the inspection of the record
of a court of general jurisdiction that the defendant, against
whom a personal judgment or decree is rendered, was at the
time of the alleged service without the territorial limits of the
court, and thus beyond the reach of its process, and that he
never appeared in the action, the presumption of jurisdiction
over his person ceases, and the burden of establishing the
jurisdiction is cast upon the party who invokes the benefit or
protection of the judgment or decree. . . . When, therefore, by legislation of a State, constructive service of process
by publication is substituted in place of personal citation,
. . . every principle of justice exacts a strict and literal
pp. 368, 369.
compliance with the- statutory provisions."
Later cases to the same effect are Earle v. 3Mf Veig&, 91 U. S.
503; Settlemier v. Sullivan, 97 U. S. 444; Ceely v. Clayton,
110 U. S. 701 ; -Applegate v. lexington &c. .Xining Co., 117
U. S. 255; and there is scarcely a State in the Union in which
the same principle has not been announced and reaffirmed.
We think the publication of the notice in this case for the
full period required by law was necessary to the validity of
the decree pronounced upon the basis of such publication,
Eary v. Doe, 16 How. 610, and as such publication was not
made for that period, the decree based upon such notice was
no estoppel of the plaintiff in this case.

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. GREEN COVE RAILROAD. 149
Opinion of the Court.

3. It is claimed, however, that the decree dismissing the
bill was proper, because there were no bonds of the railroad
company, whose property defendant purchased at the sale by
the state court, and which executed the mortgage to the
plaintiffs, legally outstanding, and consequently plaintiff had
not a sufficient interest or title to maintain this suit. On
December 23, 1886, about a month after the bill, and a few
days after the answer was filed, an order was entered referring the cause to a master, to notify all persons, holding bonds
or coupons of the railroad company to file the same with the
master before the 1st day of February, 1881, with power to
any party to the suit, or any person who should have filed
any such bonds or coupons, to take testimony before the
master, touching the holding and ownership of the same, with
a reservation on the part of the court to pass upon all questions
of law or fact connected therewith. In pursuance of this
notice bonds to the amount of $23,000 were filed by Ambler
& Taliaferro, the validity of which was made the subject of
contention. These bonds were purchased by them in Jacksonville through John T. Walker, agent of the purchasers,
Taliaferro giving his check for the. money. The bonds belonged originally to Thomas S. Harris, of Philadelphia, who
sent-them to J. 0. Marcy, an attorney residing at Jacksonville,
with an affidavit that he was a banaftde holder and owner of
the bonds; that he acquired the same for value, and without
notice that the bonds were issued improperly and without
consideration. Marcy swears in this connection that he sold
$23,000 face value of the-bonds to Walker, as agent of the
purchasers, and was paid the sum of $3450 therefor. He had
notified Harris of the order of the special master that the
bonds were to be filed on or before a certain day, and that
these bonds must be accompanied by an affidavit of bona jde
ownership. The sale, which had been talked about some time
before, took place at the National Bank of the State of
Florida. He delivered the affidavit, with the bonds, to the
purchasers. He also swears emphatically that he had not, at
the time he sold the bonds, knowledge of any fact which led
him to suspect or believe that Harris had no right to sell

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

them, nor had Walker such knowledge, so far as he knew.
He says: "I cannot by any probability imagine that he could
have any suspicion of the invalidity of any of the bonds sold
to him." Walker, who is also a lawyer at Jacksonville,
swears that he was employed by Ambler & Taliaferro to look
into the condition of the affairs of the company, with the
expectation of their becoming the purchasers, if they could do
so
safely.of bonds
"-31y investigation satisfied me that there was a
number
outstanding of this company which were of
. . With Mr. Marcy's assistdoubtful validity as liens .
ance I ascertained all the facts touching the bona fide holding
of the bonds in Philadelphia. The evidence satisfied us that
all the bonds were purchased in good faith, and I authorized
Mr. Marcy to represent my clients and complete the transactions with these parties, Dunn and :Harris, carefully instructing him to avoid the purchase of any bonds of Mr. Shreve
Ackley, as to the validity of whose holding I had come to
entertain doubts." He further testified that he required an
affidavit of bona Jade holding to accompany the bonds, and
that no fact came to his knowledge which would raise any
suspicion in his mind that the holder had no right to sell them.
Mr. Ta]iaferro also swears that he had not the slightest
knowledge of any facts which would lead a man of prudence
to suspect that the bonds were not valid, nor even a suspicion.
He had gone through the country, over the road, and had
made up his mind that it would be a desirable purchase in
connection with his timber interests. Acting under the advice
of Mr. Walker, he authorized him to go to Philadelphia to
endeavor to purchase the bonds. The only fact relied upon to
show want of good faith appears to be that these bonds were
sold upon the day of the sale of the railroad property, under
the decree of the state court, and after the parties attending
the sale, including Walker, the agent of the purchasers, had
returned from Green Cove Springs, where the sale was made,
to Jacksonville. Without going further into the evidence we
think there is sufficient to show that there are bonds outstanding secured by this mortgage upon which plaintiff is entitled
to maintain this bill, and that it is not necessary at this stage

STOUT v. INASTI.
Opinion of the Court.

of the case to determine as a finality the amount, validity or
ownership of such bonds, or the number which were held bona
frde by the present holders; but that the case should be reversed and remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion. Should the court proceed to a decree for
foreclosure and sale, the holders of the bonds can be notified
to appear and file them with the master, and all questions
connected with their rmount and ownership can be settled
upon a final hearing.
The decree of the court below will, therefore, be
Reversed.

STOUT v. MASTIN.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 1072. Submitted January 12,1891.-Decided March 2,1891.
In Kansas, if the description in a deed of land sold for non-payment of
taxes departs from the description contained in the assessment roll and
the prior tax proceedings, such prior description, if imperfect and insufficient, avoids the deed, although the description in the latter may be
sufflciexit and complete.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr.John Hutchingsfor plaintiff in error.
Mr. T. A. Irank Jones for defendant in error.
3M.

JUSTICE

BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment to recover the possession of
seven lots in Kansas City, Kansas. Defendant rested his
.defence on tax deeds for the several lots, and the single question is as to the validity of those tax deeds. A jury being
waived, the case was tried by the court; and findings of fact
were made, froi which the court, as a conclusion of law, held

