OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

It was argued for the United States that this conclusion
would be inconsistent with the decisions in Stuart v. Maxwell,

16 How. 150, and in Arthur v. Fox, 108 U. S. 125. But we
cannot perceive any such inconsistency. In neither of those
cases was there any question between the similitude clause and
a clause specially enumerating, describing or designating a particular class of goods. In Stuart v. .- axwell, the question was
between the similitude clause and a general clause covering
"all goods, wares and merchandise, "imported from foreign
countries, and not specially provided for in this act." Act of
July 30, 1846, c. 74, § 3; 9 Stat. 43. In: Arthur v. Fox, the
question was between successive sentences of the similitude
clause itself, as applied to an article admitted not to be enumerated.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded with directions to set
aside the verdict, and to take furtherproceedings in conformity with this opinion.

BOOK v. PERKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 285. Argued April 2, 3,1891. -Decided

April 13,1891.

A marshal of the United States, or his deputies, being sued in trespass for
seizing particular property under an attachment, to him directed, and
defending upon the ground that the property, so seized, belonged to the
defendant named in the writ of attachment, may have the case-the
amount in dispute being sufficient -removed to the proper Circuit Court
of the United States, as one arising under the laws of the United States.
A deed of assignment for the benefit of creditors, recited the indebtedness
of the assignor, his inability to pay his debts with punctuality or in full,
and his desire to make "a fair and equitable distribution of his property
among all his creditors," and provided that the assignor "has bargained,
sold and assigned, and does hereby grant, convey and assign," unto the
assignee "all the lands and all the personal property of every name and
nature whatsoever of the said party of the first part, more particularly
enumerated and described in the schedule hereto annexed, marked Sched-

BOOK v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.
ule A, or intended so to be .... Schedule B, hereto annexed, contains,
as near as I can state, a list of all my creditors and the amount of their
respective demands, and both of said Schedules A and B are hereby made
part of this assignment." Schedule A, annexed to the assignment, contained an inventory of certain real estate, and a list of persons indebted
to the assignor, and was verified by his oath to the effect that it contained a true list of the assignor's creditors and the amount of their
respective demands. But it contained ino clause or provision which, by
any construction, embraced a stock of goods worth about l10,000, and constituting, at the time, the bulk of the assignor's estate. Held, That the
title to these goods did not pass to the assignee, and remained subject to
attachment as the property of the assignor. The general description in
the assignment of the property conv~yed is limited by the particular
description immediately. following in the same clause referring to
Schedule A.
The statutes of Iowa relating to assignments for the benefit of creditors
refer to general assignments, by which the assignor makes a disposition
of all his property for the benefit of all his creditors. They do not relate
to partial assignments which are permissible under the laws of that
State.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. 1. E. LyoU for plaintiff in error.
was with him on the brief.

Mi'.

. B. Fouke

-'. Francis B. Daniels and XMr'. Louis G. Hlurd for defendants in error. XIr. David B. Henderson was with them on
the brief.

MRii. JUsTICE

nARLAf delivered the opinion of the court.

This action involves the title to a certain stock of goods
seized under attachments sued out against the property of
H. P. Lane from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Iowa, and directed to the marshal of that
district for execution. The goods, when seized, were in the
possession of the plaintiff in error, who claimed the right to
hold them under an assignment made to him by Lane before
the attachments were issued. Bock seeks to recover from Perkins, the marshal, and from Thrift and Hopkins, his deputies,
damages in the sum of ten thousand dollars for their seizure.
The defence was, that the goods were the property of Lane at

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the time of the seizure, and, therefore, were liable to be taken
under the attachments. Upon the petition of the defendants,
accompanied by a proper bond, and an affidavit setting forth
the nature of the defence, the case was removed into the court
below for trial as one arising under the laws of the United
States. The plaintiff moved to remand it to the state court.
The motion was denied, and by direction of the court the jury
returned a verdict for the defendants. A judgment in their
favor was accordingly entered. Book v. Perkins, 28 Fed.
Rep.- 123.
The court below properly retained the case for trial. Every
marshal of the United States, as well as his deputy, must take
an oath or affirmation that he will faithfully execute all lawful
precepts directed to him, and in all things vVell and truly perform the duties of his office. The marshal must also give
bond, with sureties, for the faithful performance of the duties
of his office by himself and deputies. And marshals and their
deputies have, in the respective States, the same powers in
executing the laws of the United States as sheriffs and their.
deputies have in executing the laws of such States. Rev. Stat.
§§ 782, 783, 788. A case, therefore, depending upon the inquiry whether a marshal or his deputy has rightfully executed
a lawful precept directed to the former from a court of the
United States, is one arising under the laws of the United
States; for, as this court has said, "cases arising under the
laws of the United States are such as grow out of the legislation of Congress, whether they constitute the right or privilege, or claim or protection, or defence of the party, in whole
or in part, by whom they are asserted2
Tennessee v. Davis,
100 U. S. 257, 264:; Railroad Co. v. .ississi~ppi, 102 U. S.
135, 141. If the goods in question, when seized, were the
property of Lane, the marshal and his deputies were in the discharge of duties imposed upon them by the laws of the United
States; and for any failure in that regard he would be liable
to suit by any one thereby injured. Rev. Stat. § 784. This
case was, therefore, one arising under the laws of the United
States, and removable from the state court. Feibelman v.
Packard,109 U. S. 421, 423; Bachraek v. N-orton, 132 U. S.

BOCK v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

337; Reagan v. Aiken, 138 U. S. 109; .ouser v. Clayton, 3
Woods, 273; MlIs v. Norton, 16 Fed. Rep. 4.
No different doctrine was announced in -Buck v. Colbath, 3
Wall. 3341. On the contrary, that case sustains the view we
have just expressed. Colbath sued Buck in a state court in
trespass for taking his goods, the latter pleading simply that
he was marshal of the United States, and had seized the goods
under an attachment tgainst the property of certain parties
named therein, but not averring that the goods belonged to the
defendants named in the writ. This court, upon error to the
highest court of the State, held that the marshal was guilty of
trespass in levying upon the property of one against whom the
writ did not run, and could be sued therefor in a state court the mere fact that the writ issued from a Federal court constituting no defbnce. The judgment in that case against the
marshal was reviewed here under the act of Congress authorizing such review in cases where a party specially claimed the
protection of an authority exercised under the United States,
and the decision withheld the protection so claimed.
The
decision sustains the proposition that where a marshal, being
sued in trespass in a state court for 'taking property under a
writ of attachment to him-directed, defends upon the ground
tht the property attached belonged to the defendant named
in the writ, the case is one arising under the laws of the United
States, and therefore removable.
We come now to the principal question in the case. The
plaintiff claims title to the goods attached under an instrument
of writing, executed on the day it bears date, as follows:
"This indenture, made the 20th day of November, A.D.
1884, between Henry P. Lane, of New Albin, Allamakee
County, and State of Iowa, of the first part, and Win. 0. Bock,
of said county and State, of the second part:
"Whereas the said Henry P. La.ne is justly indebted in considerable sums of money, and has become unable to pay the
same with punctuality or in full, and is'now desirous of making
a fair and equitable distribution of his property among all his
creditors, now this indenture witnesseth" That the said pai ty

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of the first part, in consideration of the premises and of the
sum of one dollar to him paid by the party of the second part,
the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, has grafited, bargained, sold and assigned, and does hereby grant, convey and
assign, unto the said party of the second part and to his assigns
forever, all the lands and all the personal property of every
name and nature whatsoever of the said party of the first part,
more particularly enumerated and described in the schedule
hereto annexed, marked Schedule A or intended so to be,
upon the following trusts, viz.: To take possession of said
lands and property and sell said lands, unless otherwise directed by the Circuit Court of Allamakee County, State of
Iowa, on notice published as in cases of sales of real estate on
execution, and dispose of said 'personal property upon such
terms as in his judgment may appear best, but not on credit,
and hold the proceeds of stLes of all said lands and personal
property for distribution among all the creditors of said party
of the first part, in accordance to such orders and directions as
may from time to time be made by said Circuit Court, and
shall, after final settlement and distribution be made, and all
the reasonable expenses, rents, taxes, assessments, commissions
and allowances are paid, return any surplus there may be of
the proceeds of the sales of the assigned property to the party
of the first part or his assigns; also to reconvey and reassign,
to him or them any real or personal property remaining unsold. Schedule B, hereto annexed, contains, as near as I can
state, a list of all my creditors and the amount of their respective demands, and both of said schedules A and B are hereby
made part of this assignment. Witness my hand the day and
year first above written.
"In presence of HfENRY P. LANE.
"SAI'L H1. ]KIN."
Bock, on the same day, accepted the trust created by this
instrument and agreed to execute its provisions.
Sbhedule A, annexed to and made part of the assignment,
contained an inventory of certain real estate, and a list of the
names of about one hundred and fifty persons indebted to the

BOOK v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

assignor; but no mention was made in it of the stock of goods
in question. It was verified by his oath to the effect that,
according to the best of his knowledge, it contained a true
statement and account of his estate, both real and personal.
Schedule B, also annexed to and made part of the assignment,
contained a list of the assignor's creditors, about fifty in number, with the amount of their respective demands. It was
verified by Lane's oath to the effect that it contained a true
list of all his creditor and the amount of their respective
demands.
Lane was engaged in mercantile business at lNew Albin,
Allamakee County, Iowa, when the assignment was made,
and owned the goods alleged to have been wrongfully taken
under the attachments. After the assignment was executed
and acknowledged, Book took possession of them. He caused
an inventory to be made and put the assignment on record
before the attachments were levied. At the time of the assignment he was in Lane's employment and had charge of.his
mercantile business.
The court charged the jury that as the goods in question
were not enumerated or described in the schedule annexed to
and made part of the assignment, and could not by any construction of its clauses be included in it, the title did not pass
to Book,. and they were rightfully attached as the proper.y of
Lane. It also held that the defendants were entitled to a
verdict upon the further ground that, if the instrumefit were
treated as a general assignment under the statutes of Iowa
regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors, it was void
because, when taken in connection with certain conveyances
executed about the same time by the assignor for the benefit
of his wife and wards-all the instruments constituting, in
the judgment of the court, one transaction- it gave a preference to some creditors over others, in violation of the statute,
and for that reason was void. 'FanPatten v. B-arr, 52 Iowa,
518, 521.
Did Lane's stock of goods pass to Bock by the assignment
of November 20, 1884? If not, they were rightfully attached
as his property. Although Lane, in the assignment, expressed

OOTOBER

TERM, 1890.

Opinion of the Court.

his inability to pay his debts with punctuality or in full, as
well as the desire to make a fair and equitable distribution of
"his property among all his creditors," and although the first
part of the granting clause embraces "all the lands and all the
personal property of every name, and nature whatsoever" of
the assignor, the property bargained, sold an~d assigned is
stated in the'words immediately following, in the second part
of the same clause, to be that "more particularly enumerated
and described in the schedule, hereto annexed, marked Schedule A, or intended so to be;" which schedule, together with
Schedule , is made, by express words, part of the assignment. The schedule which thus particularly enumerated and
described the property conveyed is, therefore, as much a part
of the assignment as if it were embodied in it, word for word.
In that view, the general description in the first part of the
granting clause must be held to be limited by the words which
immediately follow, indicating that the property, real and
personal, intended to be conveyed, was enumerated in the
sch6dule annexed. The particular description must control
the previous general description in the same clause, although
the words "general assignment" are at the head of the instrument. Nor is the result affected by the words "or intended
so to be," following the words "Schedule A;" for what was
intended must be determined by reference to the schedule,
which is expressly stated, in the instrument of assignment, to
contain a description of the property which, was assigned to
Bock. This interpretation is said to be inconsistent with the
purpose of the assignor, avowed in the assignment, to make a
fair and equitable distribution of his property among all his
creditors. But this language must be taken in connection
with other parts of the instrument, showing that the distribution proposed had reference only to the property particularly
enumerated in the schedule. We must assume that Lane did
not verify Schedule A by his oath, without reading or understanding what it contained. While, by accident or inadvertence, he might have omitted from it property of trifling
value, it is unreasonable to suppose that the omission from the
schedule, declared to contain a more particular enumeration

BOOK v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

and description of the property assigned, of his stock of goods
worth nearly $10,000, and constituting the bulk of his estate,
was by inadvertence. Bock was present when the schedules
were prepared, and it cannot be that he and Lane both were
unaware of the fact that Schedule A contained nothing which,
by any possible construction, could include the goods in Lane's
store. Why these goods were omitted from Schedule A
would be a matter of mere conjecture. The probability is,
that the assignment and schedule were not prepared at the
same time, and that the conclusion ultimately reached by
Lane was to make only a partial assignment, which was permissible under the laws of Iowa, and, through Book, his clerk
and assignee, retain control of the goods in the store without
subjecting the latter to responsibility to creditors for their
management; for, by the terms of the assignment, the
assignee would only be liable to them for the proper management and distribution of the property enumerated and described in Schedule A, made part of the assignment. Be this
as it may, and without saying that the intention of the parties
could be ascertained by parol evidence or otherwise than from
the assignment itself, we are of opinion that the better and
safer construction is, that the general words in the first part
of the granting clause are limited by the particular description in the latter part of the same clause of the property
actually conveyed to the assignee. These views are sustained
by the weight of authority. And we are referred to no decision of the Supreme Court of Iowa to the contrary. So that
whether the property in question passed to Bock, by virtue of
the assignment, is to be determined by the general rules governing the interpretation of written instruments, the controlling one of which is that effect must be given to the intention
of the parties as disclosed by the instrument to be construed.
It will be well to refer to some of the adjudged cases. A
leading one upon the subject is Wilkes v. Ferris,5 Johns. 335,
345, in which* an assignment for the benefit of creditors conveyed "all the goods, property, wares, merchandises, chattels,
vessels, debts, sum and sums of money, claims and demands
and effects, belonging to, and now due and owing to, the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

:Henry Cheriot, or to which, and in which, he has any right,
property, claim or demand, which said goods, wares and merchandises, hereby granted and sold, are particularly described
and enumerated in the Schedule A, signed by the said Henry
Cheriot, and to these presents annexed, etc." It was contended that the assignment was broad enough to embrace any
article not contained in .the schedule. But the court said:
"-This was not, in fact, a general assignment of all Cheriot's
estate; for though the .words, in one place, be general, yet the
assignment immediately goes on to specify, by a reference to
the schedules annexed, the specific articles ofproperty assigned;
and it therefore could operate only upon the articles specified;
for, as the court said in ]Munro v. Alaire, 2 Caines, 327, [Chief
Justice Kent delivering the opinion,] if a general clause be followed by special words, which accord with the general clause,
the deed shall be construed according to the special matter."
This case has been often cited with approval. In -Driscollv.
.Fiske, 21 Pick. 503, 505, 507, the court construed an assignment made by partners in trust for the benefit of their creditors, who should become parties to it, of "all their books,
stock in trade, printing apparatus and machinery, books of
account, book debts, notes and demands and all their other
property of every name and nature, except such as is exempt
from attachment, most of the same being now at their place
of business, a schedule of which is annexed, and other and
fuller schedules of the property hereby assigned shall be hereunto annexed as soon as the same can be conveniently made."
The schedule contained three items, namely, "stock of books
in store--printing presses and materials-notes and demands,
etc." A creditor subsequently attached certain furniture remaining in the possession of one of the partners, after which
the assignees inserted it in the schedule. The furniture was
held subject to the attachment. The court said: "The general-phraseology in the assignment is sufficient to include the
furniture which is in question. The conveyance of certain
property specified, and df all other property of every name
and nature except such as is exemptfrom attachment, might
well be construed to mean all the property which the assignors

BOOK v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

had jointly or each of them had severally. But we are to
take the whole instrument into consideration, in order to
ascertain the true intent and meaning of the parties.
The general words are restrained by reference to the schedules
which were annexed before the attachment was made. So
that the assignment, independently of the parol evidence, cannot by fair construction be said to include the furniture of the
individual assignors. Wilkes v. Ferri8,5 Johns. 335." In the
same case it was held that parol evidence that it was intended
to include the furniture in the conveyance, tended to contradict, not explain, the writing, and was inadmissible. See also
Tucker v. Olis , 12 Pick, 22.
In .im v. Armstrong, 31 Maryland, 81, the precise question
here presented was decided. The deed of assignment for the
benefit of creditors in that case declared that the assignor was
"indebged to divers persons in divers sums of money, which,
by reason of sundry losses and misfortunes, he has become
unable to pay in full, and is desirous of providing for the payment thereof,- as far as he can, in a just and equitable manner,
by assignment of all his property and effects for the purpose;"
and it conveyed "all and singular his goods, chattels, promissory notes, debts, wares, merchandise, securities and vouchers,
for and affecting the payment of money, claims, demands,
choses in action and property of every name and nature whatever, of and belonging to him, and which are more particularly
and fully enumerated in the schedule hereto annexed, marked
The assignee sought to recover certain money,
Schedule ' A.'
not named in the schedule annexed to the assignment, and which
had been appropriated by particular creditors of the assignors
to their own use. The cburt, holding that the money did not
pass by the assignment, said: "In the grant before us the
general descriptive words employed would certainly be sufficient, in the absence of any restrictive clause, to pass all the
debtor's property; but we must suppose that the grantor had
a purpose in the more particular description which he thought
proper to give in the schedule, and that that purpose was what
he declares it to be, a more particular and full description of
the property conveyed. To withhold this meaning from the

OCTOBER TERIMV, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

words of reference to the schedule is to deny to them all
import whatever; and that is justified by no rule of construction. If instead of referring to the schedule for a particular
description of the property, the grantor had followed the general description with such words as namely, that is to say, or,
as follows, and set oat in the body of the assignment itself the
items enumerated in the schedule, there could hardly have
been a doubt but that the precediig general words of description would have been restrained and confined to the subsequent enumeration. And if that be so, how does the fact
that the schedule, instead of being incorporated in the body
of the deed, is on a separate sheet of paper annexed thereto,
change in any manner the application of the principle? For,
the schedule being a part of the deed, we should read it as if
inserted in the body of that instrument."
The above cases, in our judgment, rest upon sound rules of
interpretation. To the same effect are United States v. Langton &c., 5 Mason, 280, 288; Guerin v. THunt, 6 Minnesota,
375; Wood v. Rowclqffe, 5 Eng. Law & Eq. 471; .3eoAdinev.
-Foley, 34 Minnesota, 251; Rundlett v. .Dole, 10 N. t. 458;
Belding v. Frankland,8 Lea (Tenn.), 67; and Scott v. Coleman,
5 Littell, 349. See also Burrill on Assignments, 5th ed. pp.
192 to 198.
Numerous authorities are cited for the plaintiff which are
supposed to announce a contrary doctrine. Most of them,
however, will be found, upon careful examination, to proceed
upon the peculiar wording of the instruments construed.
Among these cases is Bank of Tennessee v. Born, 17 How.
157, 159, 160, where the question was whether a certain lot
was embraced in a cession made for the benefit of creditors
under a statute of Louisiana, approved March 26, 1826, relating to the voluntary surrender of property by insolvent persons. Laws of La. 1826, p. 136. That case does not bear
upon the question here, for the court held it to be apparent
that the lot in question .was intended to be included in the
debtor's schedule, but was imperfectly and erroneously described in it; and by the local statute, all the property of an
insolvent petitioner, mentioned in his schedule, was fully

BOOK v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

vested in creditors from and after the cession and acceptance
- the duty of the syndic being to take possession of it, and
to administer and sell for benefit of the creditors. "Consequently," Chief Justice Taney said, "if, under the ambiguous
or erroneous description in the schedule, this lot must be
regarded as omitted, it still passed by the cession." That
was not, then, a case of property being omitted altogether
from a schedule, made part of an assignment, and describing
the property assigned. Equally inapplicable is the case of
Nfational Bdank v. Bank of Chicago, 94 Illinois, 271, 279,
where the question was whether the claim of a particular
bank was included in a deed of assignment for the benefit of
creditors, which, after providing that the assignee should, out
of the proceeds of the trust property, if sufficient, pay all the
debts due "to the parties severally named in the schedule of
creditors, to :be hereunto annexed," added, "it being intended
to include in said schedule the names of all the creditors of
the party of the first part, with the amount due to each of
said creditors." The bank referred to was not named in the
schedule subsequently prepared and annexed, but the court
held that it was not excluded from participation in the assets;
observing, that the language last above quoted would not
have been used if the purpose had been to exclude some creditors from the list to be subsequently made and incorporated
in the schedule. It requires no argument to show that this
decision has no application to the case before us. In support
of the plaintiff's position reference was also made to Plattv.
Lott, 17 N. Y. 478, and Turner v. Jaycox, 40 N. Y. 470. But
of these cases it was said in Holmes v. Iubbard, 60 N. Y.
183, 185, that the instruments construed in them were general
assignmdnts of all the property and effects of the assignors
for the payment of all their debts. And, in the later case of
Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank v. Roche, 93 N. Y. 374,
378, it was said that "it isa rule for the construction of all
written instruments conveying property, that if a general
clause be followed by special words, the instrument shall be
construed according to the special matter; and in the application of this fule it is held that the general words of an assign-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Couirt.

ment should be restricted by a subsequent clause referring to
a schedule annexed for a more full description;" citing Wilkes
v. .Ferrisand Holmes v. Hubcard, above cited. Similar criticism could be made upon other authorities relied upon by the
plaintiff. But it is unnecessary to extend this opinion by an
examination of them.
The plaintiff lays strens upon the Iowa statute relating to
assignments for creditors in force when Lane's assignmehit
was made. That statute provides that "no general assignment of property by an insolvent, or in contemplation of
insolvency, for the benefit of creditors shall be -valid, unless
it be made for the benefit of all his creditors in proportion to
the amount of their respective claims;" that "the debtor shall
annex to such assignment an inventory, under oath, of his
estate, real and personal, according to the best of -his knowledge, and also a list of his creditors and the amount of their
respective demands; but such inventory shall not be conclusive [as] to the amount of the debtor's estate; and such assignment shall vest in the assignee the title to any other property
belonging to the debtor at the time of making the assignment;

"

that "the assignee shall at all times be subject

to the order and supervision of the court or- judge, and 'the
said court or judge may, by citation and attachment, compel
the assignee, from time to time, to file reports of his proceedingos, and of the situation and condition of the trust, and to
proceed in the faithful execution of the duties required by
this chapter;" that "no assignment shall be declared fraudulent and void for want of any list or inventory as provided in.
this chapter;" and that "the court or judge may, upon application of the assignee or any creditor, compel the appearance
in person of the debtor before such court or judge forthwith,
or at the next term, to answer under oath such matters as
may then and there be inquired of him, and such debtor may
then and there be fully examined under oath, as to the amount
and situation of his estate, and the names of the creditors and
amounts due to each, with their places of residence; and may
compel the delivery to the assignee of any property or estate
embraced in the assignment." 1 McOlain's Ann. Stat. Iowa

BOOK v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

(ed. 1880), 592, §§ 2115, 2117, 2123, 2124; (ed. 1888), §§ 3292,
3294, 3302, 3303, p. 849.
We do not perceive that these statutory provisions determine the question before us. In the event of a general assignment of property, by one insolvent or in contemplation of
insolvency, for the benefit of creditors, the debtor is required
to annex to the assignment an inventory of his estate, and the
assignment is not invalidated or rendered void for the want of
such an iiventory. Whatever estate belongs to the debtor,
at the time of a general assignment, passes, by force of the
statute, to the assignee. The transaction contemplated in the
Iowa statute, and termed a general assignment," is a disposition of all the property of the insolvent for the benefit of all
'an Patten v. Bwuer, 52 Iowa., 518, 521. But
his creditors."
the assignment in.question here was not a general assignmentIt was only a partial one. The debtor assigned, and from the
terms employed by him could have intended to assign, only
the property particularly enumerated and described in the
schedule annexed to the instrument that passed the titleThe plaintiff concedes that partial assignments are permissible
under the statutes of Iowa. Lampson v. Arnold, 19 Iowa,
479, 486. The statutory provisions just referred to have reference only to general assignments.
For the reasons given we are of opinion that the court did
not err in Lolding that the goods attached did not pass to Bock
by the assignment in question, and were subject to the -writs
that came to the.hands of the defendants. And the jury were
properly instructed to find for the defendants.
This disposes of the case without the- necessity of considering whether the assignment, if regarded as a general assignment of the debtor's property, was or was not void under the
statutes of Iowa.
Judgment alrme..
VOL. CX=XX-41

