OCTOBER TERE, 1890.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

KING v. DOAN-E.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 77. Argued November 14, 1890.- Decided March 2, 1891.

The mere renewal of a negotiable promissory note does not, as between
the original parties, affect the essential nature of the transaction represented by It.
If, in an action by an endorsee against the maker of a negotiable promissory note, the note is shown to have been obtained by fraud, the presumption, arising merely from the possession of the instrument, that the
holder in good faith paid value, is so far overcome that he cannot have
judgment unless it appears affirmatively from all the evidence, whether
produced by the one side or the other, that he in fact pbrchased for
value.
The rule which protects a bona fide holder for value of commercial paper
against defences or equities, that might be good, as between the original
parties, does not require that the holder shall have paid full value: but if
the amount paid is greatly disproportioned to the real value, the security
may be regarded as having been obtained without paying anything for it.
King agreed to take $10,000, par value, of the capital stock of a corporation
being organized, and to pay $6666.66 for it. He executed his promissory
note for the latter amount that it might be discounted and the proceeds applied on his subscription, his stock to be held as security until
the note should be paid. Doaue who had already subscribed and paid
his subscription, surrendered 100 shares to the company, which were
allotted to King, and a certificate issued to him therefor, which certificate, being endorsed by him in blank, was given, with the note, to Doane
as security for the payment of, it, in consideration of his surrender of
the 100 shares. At maturity the note not being paid, a note of $7118.50
was given in renewal. King being sued on the renewal note, set up that
he had been induced to make the subscription by false and fraudulent
representation on the part of an agent of the company, and that Doane
had not paid full value for the note. Held, that Doane had purchased
the original note for value, and without knowledge or notice of any
fraud or bad faith in the transaction, and could recover.

THiE case is stated in the opinion.
_-Mr. X. P. Brewer for plaintiff in error.
was with him on the brief.

Mr.

. B. Hart

KIIG v. DOANE.
Opinion of the Court.

2fr. TF. E. Hrale for defendant in error.
.ler
was with him on the brief.

.f'.

John -.

MRi. JUSTICE HAAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought to recover the amount due on a'
promissory note executed November 10, 1884, by King for the
sum of $7118.50, and made payable to the plaintiff Doane or
his order one year after date, with interest at the rate of seven
per cent per annum from date until paid. By direction of the
court the jury returned a verdict in favor.of the plaintiff for
the full amount of the note, with interest. A new trial having
been refused, judgment was entered in conformity with the
verdict. 30 Fed. Rep. 106.
The defence is, that the note sued on had no other consideration-than the surrender and cancellation of a previous note
alleged to have been obtained, with the knowledge and aid of
-Doane, by fraud and false representations; that the endorsement and transfer of the original note to him was wholly
without consideration; and that the renewal note was executed by King in ignorance of the fraud perpetrated on him,
and because of the false statement by Doane, through his
agent, that he was the banaflde holder of the first note.
The principal facts out of which this litigation has arisen
are as follows: During the fall of 1883, King, the plaintiff in
error, had frequent interviews with one Frank B. Felt in reference to the purchase, by the former, at the price of $6666.66,
of ten thousand dollars, par value, of the capital stock of the
Pullman Iron and Steel Company, a corporation then recently
organized under the general laws of Illinois with a capital
stock of $500,000 divided into 5000 shares of. $100 each, for
the purpose of manufacturing iron and steel in different forms,
principally the bayonet railway spike for which a patent had
been issued to J. P. Perkins. This patent, at the time of the
organization of the company, belonged to Felt, Perkins, J. W.
Doane and James N. Smith, the latter representing, it is
alleged, George M. Pullman. Felt, Doane, Perkins and Smith
constituted a majority of the directors, and Felt was the secre-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tary and treasurer of the corporation. It does not appear that
King made a formal written subscription of stock. But, under
date of. November 7, 1883, Felt-wrote to him: "If convenient,
please remit one-half amount of subscription to stock, amounting to $3333.33. Any time before the 15th will answer. We
are progressing finely and everything looks very flattering,
having had applications from three companies to start other
works at different places.

I am confident we have the best

thing in the country, and the outcome will make us happy;
will see you about the 25th, and advise you of progress and
the decision of directors as to starting other companies, either
in stock or royalty." King replied under date of the 10th:
"Yours of the 7th at hand. I have a deal on hand which
ought and, I believe, will pan out before the 15th, and I will
respond as soon as it does. I expect' to be in Chicago very
soon; next week possibly, and certainly not later than the
week following. Will it answer if I make the payment then ?
You have no idea how d-d tight money is up here, and I
sometimes feel like getting tight myself, but I think I am sure
of being easy in a few days; glad to know of the promising
outlook, . tet me hear from you." This was followed by
further correspondence, in which Felt urged King to pay the
assessment made upon him, while King promised payment as
soon as he could make arrangements for the money. In those
letters Felt expressed high hopes for the future of the company. Under date of February 18, 1884, King wrote to him:
"I appreciate the situation as you describe it, and have delayed
writing until this time, hoping to bring a settlement of the
matter in which I have the funds you need and considerably
more locked-up, but can't do it, and must therefore come back
to first principles and do *the best I can, viz.: I will send you
my note for the amount, $6666.66 due October 1, 1884, at 8
per cent, and until it is paid you may hold the $10,000 of
stock as security, giving me a receipt showing what the transaction is. Your security will thus be ample and you can discount the note to meet present needs. If I can get funds in,
as I hope and, expect to do, at an earlier date than above
named, would be glad to take the note up before maturity, of

KING v. DOANE.
Opinion of the Court.

-course, but must fix a time which will render it certain that
I shall not disappoint you or be disappointed myself. I trust
that you can arrange matters on this basis, and, if so, will
close it up at once." In a letter of February 22, 1884, Felt
inclosed a note to be signed by King, dated January 5, 1884,
for $6666.66, payable on the 1st of October thereafter to the
order of the Pullman Iron and Steel Company at the First
:National Bank, Minneapolis, with interest at the rate of 8 per
-cent per annum until paid. This note was signed by King
and returned to Felt in a letter of February 25, 1884, in which
King said: "Yours of the 22d at hand, and I herewith return
the note, duly signed. Please return a receipt, which will
cover the transaction and show that you hold my $10,000 of
full-paid stock as security for the payment of said note, so
that in case either of us should be snuffed out meanwhile our
administrators might have an easy job. Am delighted to
know of the brilliant prospects of the company, and trust it
will pan even larger than you anticipate. Our electric light
business is climbing." Felt, as treasurer, delivered to King a
receipt, dated March 1, 1884, showing that, when the above
note was paid, "full-paid stock is to be issued" to him "for
$10,000 in the Puilnian Iron and Steel Company."
On the 19th of April, 1884, the company issued to King a
certificate of 100 shares of stock, and it was inclosed the same
day to King, in a letter from Felt, in which the latter said:
"Please endorse in blank on back of the same. Mr. Doane
advanced the money on it, and this is to be held by him until
note is paid; when stock will be returned to you. This should
have been done when note was made, but just made our issue
of stock and now do this t6 close up the books.. We are running in good shape. The leading iron man of the country,
after looking over our works last night, said he thought the
stock would double in a year and double again, and pay good
interest on the same.. We are having large demand. Please
sign and return at once." King, as requested, executed an
assignment, in blank, of the certificate, and returned it to Felt
in a letter" of April 24, in which he said: "Your favor of 19th,
enclosing certificate No. 31 for 100 shares of the capital stock-

"1,70

OCTOBER TERM,, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Pullman Iron and Steel Company in my name, is just
received, and, as requested by you, I herewith return it, endorsed in blank, to be held by Mr. Doane until my note of
January 5, 1884, for $6666.66, due October 1, 1884, is paid,
when said certificate is to be returned to me. Am delighted
to hear of the flattering prospects of the company. The value
of the stock can't double too often to suit."
The explanation given by Felt of the transaction by which
Doane got King's note as collateral was, that while, in consideration of the transfer by Doane, Perkins, Smith and himself to the company of the patent for the bayonet spike, the
original stock was divided equally between them on the basis
of 1250 shares to each, one-half of the stock was donated to
the treasury of the company to be sold, the proceeds to. be
used in building a plant and as a working capital for the company. Felt testified: "I, as an officer bf the company, received it [the note] from Mr. King. Soon after the receipt of
this note it became necessary for the company to have funds,
and it was assumed that I, as one of the interested parties to
[in] this company, should provide a certain amount of money
by the sale of stock, and Mr. Doane, claiming that I had not
provided the. full amount, offered to discount my own note and
take this note of Thomas S. King as a collateral against the
same. Soon after the execution of my note to J. W. Doane
he asked me if I wished to hold this note of King's and dis-pose of my own stock, I having raised the money necessary
to cover the amount of this subscription; if not, he would take
the note and assign to Thomas S. King one hundred shares of
his stock. This was before the company had commenced
operations, and it looked as if it would be a7 very profitable
institution, and I told him that I did not care to dispose of
any of my stock. So, on April 19, 1884, J. W. Doane transferred 100 shares of his stock. The same was assigned to T.
S. King and held as collateral by J. W. Doane against the.
note given by King. The note that I gave to J. W. Doane,
upon which the money was advanced, has been paid by me."
In explanation of the statement that he was to piovide a
certain amount of money by the sale 'of stock, Felt said: "It

KING v. DOANE.
Opinion of the Court.

was agreed that fifteen hundred shares of the stock should be
sold at a certain price; one-half of said stock being taken 3y
the two subscribers. Upon my coming to Chicago I found
that it was understood that Mr. Perkins and myself were to
place the other one-half of the stock."
The note discounted by Doane, with the King stock as collateral, was executed by Felt, individually, March 8, 1884, and
was paid about September 1, 1884. Being asked to expTain
the transfer by Doane of one hundred shares of stock, Felt
said: "That was done by a certificate of transfer, under date
of April 19, 1884, to Thomas S. King by J. W. Doane, Mr.
Doane surrendered his certificate of 625 shares, dated April 12,
1884, and a new certificate was issued to him for five hundred
and twenty-five shares, under date of April 19, 1884, being the
amount of his original certificate of shares, less the amount
transferred to Thomas S. King, and a certificate of one hundred shares was issued to King. The certificate of stock was
signed by W. E. Barrows, vice-president, and Frank B. Felt,
secretary." Of the 2500 shares transferred to Felt, as trustee,
fifteen hundred shares were sold at sixty-six and two-thirds
cents on the dollar, the proceeds of the same being used to
erect a manufacturing plant. The remaining one thousand
shares were intended to be held and sold at par for an operating capital. Doane took 375 shares, paying in cash therefor
the sum of $25,000. A like amount, at the same price, was
taken by Pullman, and paid for by him or through the Pullman Palace Car Company.
When the note of January 5, 1884, became due, King received notice of its being in bank for collection. Tie says:
"T had reason to believe it was in Chicago, and, the fact that
there was no sale for the stock was a disappointment to me,
but I presumed that Mr. Doane was the innocent holder of
the note for value. I knew none of the facts upon which I
now base my defence.. The note was claimed and represented
to be the property of Mr. Doane at that time. I was unable
to pay it, and renewed it for the one sued upon in this case,
[for $7118.50, dated N~ovember 10, 1S84,] payable to J. W.
Doane. The difference in the amounts f the two notes is.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
accounted for by the interest being added. Additional security
was demanded of me, and I gave, in addition to the Pullman
Iron and Steel Company stock held by Doane, $8500 of stock
in the Brush Electric Company. There was no new consideration for the last note. It was simply a renewal and extension
of time."
Giving the defendant the benefit of every reasonable inference from the evidence, did the court below err in directing a
verdict for the plaintiff ? It was proven beyond question that
the defendant agreed- to take $10,000, par value, of the' capital
stock of the Pullman Steel and Iron Company, and pay for it
the sum of $6666.66; that he executed the nbte of January 5,
1884, 'for the latter amount that it might be discounted, and
the proceeds applied on his subscription, the stock subscribed
to be held as security until the note was paid and a certificate
of stock, full paid, to be issued to King upon such payment
being made; that a certificate for 100 shares, surrendered by
Doane, was issued to King, by whom it was assigned, in blank,
to Doane, to be held by tle latter as collateral security for
the note of January 5, 1884; that the note was endorsed and
delivered to Doane, in consideration of his having surrendered
to the company the above 100 shares of his full-Paid stock;
and that, subsequently, the note sued on for $7118.50 was
given in renewal of the note for $6666.66.
If King was induced by false or fraudulent statements of
Felt, representiig the company, to subscribe for stock and to
make the note for 86666.66, he would not have been liable as
between himself and the company either on the subscription
or on the note. Nor would he have been liable to the company upon any note taken by it simply in renewal. The principle is well established that, as between the maker and payee,
any defence that would be good against the original note will
be equally good.against a note taken in renewal without additional consideration, or under circumstances not showing a
valid waiver of such defence. The mere renewal of a note does
not, as between the original' parties, affect the essential nature
of the transaction represented by it. McLaughl* v. Bankc of
Potomac, 7 IHow. 220, 228; Jones v. Guaranty and Indemnity

KING v. DOANLE.
Opinion of the Court.

Co., 101 U. S. 622, 630; Sawyer v. Wiswell, 9 Allen, 39, 42;
Holden v. Cosgrove, 12 Gray, 216, 217. If the subscription
and original note were obtained by fraud, these principles
would determine this case adversely to Doane unless he, gave
value for the original note without notice of the alleged fraud.
Whether he did or did not give value, without such notice, is the
vital question in the case. And that question must be considered with reference to the-established rule, that if in an action
by an indorsee against the maker a negotiable note is shown
to have been obtained by fraud, the presumption, arising
merely from the possession of the instrument, that the holder
in good faith paid value is so far overcome that he cannot
have judgment unless it appears affirmatively from all the evidence, whether produced by the one side or the other, that he,
in fact, purchased for value. Smith v. Sac County, 11 Wall.
139, 148; Commissioners v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278, 285; Stewart
v. Lansizg, 104: U. S. 505, 509; Pana v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529,
542. In the case supposed he must show that he paid value.
That fact being established, he will be entitled to recover,
unless it is proved that he purchased with actual notice of
defect in the title, or in bad faith, implying guilty knowledge
or wilful ignorance. Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How. 343, 367;
.Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110, 121; Hotchkiss v. .National
Bank, 21 Wall. 351, 359; .few Orleans v. fontgomery, 95
U. S. 18; Swt v. Smith, 102 U. S. 442, 444.
It is argued that the evidence does not show the payment
of value by Doane. We lay out of view altogether the fact
that the original note may have first come to his hands as
collateral security for Felt's individual note of March 5, 1884;
for it does not distinctly appear that the delivery to Doane,
for that purpose, of King's note was with the assent of the
company; and without such assent, Doane could not rightfully have taken it as security for Felt's debt to him. The
money advanced by Doane upon Felt's individual note was
advanced to the latter in order that he might perform his
promise to "place" a part of the stock donated to the company, andput in his hands, as trustee, for sale. But did not
Doane pay value when he surrendered one hundred shares of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the original stock issued to him on account of his part ownership of the patent right transferred to the company? That
stock was deemed of value by him; for, as we have seen, of
the shares donated by the original stockholders to the company's treasury, he'took 375 shares, paying therefor in cash
twenty-five thousand dollars. When the transaction took
place he had substantial reasons for believing, and Po far as
the evidence shows, in good faith believed, that the patent
right in question was of value. And his confidence in the
enterprise was manifested by the large sum invested by him.
The question as to his having paid value does not depend
upon the inquiry whether the result of the company's opera•tions justified the high expectations for its success that were
indulged at the outset. And the rule that protects a bona
fide holder for value of commercial paper against defences or
equities that might be good, as between the original parties,
does not require that the holder shall have paid full value.
As said in Gould v. Segee, 5 Duer, 260, 270, "when a parting
with value is proved,-the amount of the consideration is not
otherwise important than as bearing on the question of actual
or constructive notice." So, in Bily v. Smith, 14 Ohio St.
396, 402, the Supreme court of Ohio held that the rule does
not require the full face of the paper to be paid, and that a contrary principle would not only deprive commercial paper of one
of the most essential and valuable incidents of negotiability,
but would disastrously affect the' business and commerce of the
country. We do not mean to say that the real amount of
the consideration paid by the holder may not, under some
circumstances, be important in determining whether, within
the rule adverted to, he paid value. The amount paid may
have been so disproportioned to the real value of the security
purchased that the claim to have paid value will be treated as
a mere pretence, and the security as having been obtained
without paying anything for it. But no such case is here presented. It is idle to say that what Doane paid for the note
was, at the time, so insignificant as compared with the face or
real value of King's note that a presumption arises that he had
notice of some defence upon the part of King. The stock

KING v. DOANE.
Opinion of the Court.

surrendered by him to be issued to King was his individual
property, and was deemed by him of equal value with the
note; for he had taken and paid for 375 shares at the same
rate, per share, that Kingwas to pay for the stock subscribed
by. him. The question of value is to be determined by the
situation as it was, and as it was reasonably regarded, at the
time Doane purchased the note. King had subscribed for
$10,000 par value of the stock, and had given his not e that it
might be discounted and the proceeds applied on his subscription; and he expected that it would be discounted by Doane.
Of these facts Doane was informed when he surrendered one
hundred shares of his full-paid stock that it might be issued
to King; for these matters appeared on the face of the transaction. And the evidence e'ntirely fails to show that Doane
had knowledge of any fraudulent representations by Felt or
of any fact that would relieve King from obligation to meet
his subscription or to pay the note executed by him to the
company, or that Felt made any representations to King at
the instance of Doane. King, so far as was known to Doane"
had assumed to pay the whole amount of the original note,
whatever may have been, at the time, the intrinsic value of
the stock. The note was endorsed to Doane in consideration
of his surrendering one hundred shares of his stock to be issued
to King. It was precisely as if Doane had exchanged with
the company (and it was competent for the parties to make
such an exchange) one hundred shares of his full paid stock
for King's note; in which case, King could not haver escaped
responsibility to Doane upon the note, unless it appeared that
the latter did not become a bona~fde holder for value.
The result is, that, under the evidence, Doane must have
been deemed a holder for value. No other inference from the
evidence could reasonably have been made. Having, then,
purchased the original note for value, Doane was entitled to
recover the amount of the renewal note, unless it appeared
that he purchased the original note with knowledge of the
fraud alleged to have been committed against King, or with
such notice of the facts and circumstances attending its execution that his purchase of it must be deemed to have been

OCTOBER TER.-M, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

made,'not simply without due care, but in actual bad faith.
As such knowledge or notice was not shown, and could not be
reasonably inferred from the evidence, the direction to the
jury to find for the plaintiff was proper.

Judgment aft .ned.

STOCKMEYER v. TOBIN.
APIEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 143. Argued and submitted January 12,1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.
An averment in a bill, filed by the curator of an interdict in Louisiana to,
have a contract declared null and void, that at the time of making it the
interdict was losing, and to a great extent had lost, his capacity to
attend to business and to manage his affairs, and that his mind was seliously impaired so as to affect his understanding and judgment, and so
continued until he was judicially interdicted, does not meet the requirements of the Civil Code of that State, and does not entitle the plaintiff to.
relief upon the ground that the interdict was then incapable in law of
making a binding agreement.
In Louisiana a judgment debtor can waive or renounce the right to have
property, which is taken on execution to satisfy the judgment, appraised.
The right of appraisement of property taken on execution is given in Louisiana to the owner, and, if waived- by him, his creditors cannot complain
unless the waiver was made fraudulently and to defeat their debts.
When a mortgage in Louisiana stipulates for a sale, on forfeiture, without
appraisement, and the petition for executory process prays for such &
sale, and the order is "let executory process issue herein as prayed for
and according to law," it imports a sale without appraisement.
When a plantation in Louisiana and its fixtures are to be sold under a mortgage, the sale must be made at the seat of justice, unless the debtor,
within the time after the seizure prescribed by law, requires it to be
made on the plantation.
In Louisiana, when a plantation and the personal property upon it are mortgaged together by one mortgage, they may be sold together as an entirety.
In Louisiana mere informalities or irregularities in a judicial sale do not
constitute a sufficient ground for setting it aside.
THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This suit was instituted January 27, 1886, in the name of
Edward F. Stockineyer, an interdict, and a subject of the Ger-

