OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.,,

judgment below, which had passed in favor of the plaintiffs
below, the court discoyered that the writ of error was sued
out and citation directed and served against only one of those
plaintiffs, and that the preliminary appeal bond was made to
him alone. , The supersedeas bofid was, however, executed to
all the plaintiffs, and the subsequent proceedings generally bore
a plural title. The special ciicumnstances of the case were held
to justify the amendment of the, writ of error and the issue of
a new citation.
In .2Jason v. United States, 13CI U. S. 581, the application to
amend being made more than two years after the entry of
judgment, and the omitted parties being in no way in court,
the application was denied and the writ of error dismissed.

Estis v. T'abue, 128 U. S. 225.
We are compelled to hold the objection fatal to our juris-

diction, and the appeals must be

Biarnised.

MELLEN v. BUCKINER.
BUCKNER v. MELLEN.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Nos. 13, 27.

Argued November 25, 26, 1889.-Decided March 23,1891.,

M., a planter of Louisiana, died in 1860, leaving as his heirs, the minor
children of his deceased daughter Julia, and the minor grandson of his
deceased daughter Ann. At the death of his wife, in 1844, a large portion of the property then in his possession was community property, in
which she was entitled t6 a half interest. Before his death he attempted,
by sale and donation of specified estates, valued and appraised' by him,
to give to his daughter Julia (who was then living) her interest in the
community property left by her mother and three-fourths of his own
remaining estate; and, in a like way, to give to the grandson of his
daughter Ann his like interest in the community property and the remaining one-fourth of his own estate. At his death he left a will with'
similar provisions. The parties each entered into possession of the properties thus respectively, assigned to them, occupying in separate parcels,

IELLEN v. BUCKNER.
Syllabus.
without interference from the testamentary executor. But in 1869 the
testamentary executor of M. made a simulated sale of all the lands at the
instance of one of the parties concerned. A creditor of his estate then
filed a bill on behalf of himself and other creditors, to set aside this sale
as fraudulent, and to subject the lands to the payment of the testator's
debts; and such proceedings were had thereon that this court, at October term, 1883, decided that the sale was fraudulent Jn fact, and that the
lands in the hands of the heirs were liable for his debts. .Johnson v.
Waters, U11 U. S. 640. The cause having been remanded to the Circuit
Court for further proceedings and to afford other creditors an opportunity to become parties, the representatives of the heirs of Julia and of
the heirs of Ann respectively presented their claims a.s creditors for their
interest in the community-property, and also filed bills in the nature of
supplemental or cross bills, setting up that they were not parties to the
former decree, averring the validity of the sale declared fraudulent, setting up their claims to the community property, and claiming that they
should be allowed for improvements. The creditors' representative answered, that the debts for the community property had been fully paid
from rents and revenues, or, if not paid, had, under the laws of Louisiana, become ubordinated to the debts of ordinary creditors. Further
evidence was taken in addition to that in the original cause: Held,
(1) That the decision in .Iohnson v. Waters was right as to the fraudulent character of the sale made in 1869, and that it be allirmed;
(2) That the act of sale and donation to M.'s daughter Julia, mentioned
in Johnson v. Vaters, was void as a donation, but valid as a sale
to the extent of the consideration named -therein; to wit, the debt
due to her for her share in the community property, and the sum
to be paid by her to the other heir;
(3) That any debt which may have been due from Al. to either of his
heirs on account of the community property, was more than satisfied by their respectively receiving that portion of the property
which was intended by him to be a satisfaction of it, and by the
rents and revenues received since his death; and that such purtion
in ahliuot parts should be held by tlhem free from the other debts
of the estate; hut that the remaining portion should be sold to pay
said debts;
(4) That, being minors at the time they became heirs, they were, under
the law of Louisiana, heirs with benefit of inventory, and not personally liable for the debts beyond the amount of the property
which was hot received in satisfaction of their own claim upon the
community;
(5) That on equitable grounds they should have some allowance'or consideration, beyond the use of the property, for improvements
which they had placed upon it, and for restoration of its condition
after floods and other devastations;
(6) That in view of the couflicting evidence aid the difficulty of arriving at an accurate adjustment of equities this court would direct

OCTOBER TERMN, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
that the respective interests of the heirs be increased as indicated
in 'the opinion;
(7) That there is nothing in the sections of the Civil Code of Louisiana,
referred to in the opinion, which conflicts with these equitable
conclusions.

IN EQuITy. 'The case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr. J. Vard Gurley, Jr., and 3lr. John G. Simrall for Mellen. XIr. B. T. Sage was with them on the brief.
.br. Thomas J Semmes for the heirs of Julia MIorgan.
.r.

J . .Beckwith for Buckner and othlers.

.r.

JoAn T.Ludeling for the creditors.

M

.JUSTiCE

BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases are supplementary to that of Johnson v. Waters,
111 U. S. 640, decided by this court on appeal from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana in October term, 1883.
In that case, William Gay, a judgment creditor of Oliver J.
iMorgan, deceased, to the amount of $33.250, besides interest,
filed a bill on behalf of himself and all other creditors of the
deceased who might come in and contribute to the expenses
of the suit, to subject five certain plantations in Carroll parish,
Louisiana, of which Oliver J. Morgan had died possessed, to
the payment of his 'debts, and to set aside as fraudulent and
void a pretended judicial sale of sai' plantations -made to
certain of the defendants in January, 1869. The plantations
were named Albion, Wilton, Melbourne, Westland and Mlorgana, and they lay together, the three former (the most valuhad
able) fronting on the _Mississippi River. Oliver J. Mo
(lied in October, 1860. His wife, Narcissa Deeson, had died
in 1S--, and a. large portion of the property was community
property in which she was entitled to a half interest, though
some of it was acquired after her death. In 185t,ini 'a proceeding for partition of said property in the District Court for the
parish of Carroll, instituted by Oliver J. Morgan,,a sale was

AIELLE1 'v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

ordered, and the said Oliver became purchaser of the different.
tracts contituting the community lands, for the sum of 8362,201.80, one-half of which, after deducting an amount adjudged:
to said Oliver for improvements, was due to the heirs of his:
said wife, amounting to the sum of $134,991.40. There were.
two heirs, namely, Julia, the daughter of Oliver J. Morgamt'
and his said wife, who had married, first, one Keene, by whom
she had several children, and, secondly, Oliver T. Morgan, by
whom she had a daughter; the other heir was Oliver 1H. Kellam, Junior, a grandson of Ann Morgan, deceased, another
daughter of said Oliver J. Morgan and his wife who had married one Kellam, by whom she had a son Oliver, (then deceased,) who was the father of said Oliver H. Kellam, Jr:
These two heirs, therefore, Julia Morgan, the daughter, and
Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., the great grandson, were each entitled
to one-half of'the said sum of $134,991.40, making due to each
the sum of $67,495.70. In the adjudication of sale by the
sheriff it was expressed that Julia Morgan was present and by
authority of her then husband, Oliver T. Morgan, requested
that the amount due her should be left in the hands of her
father; and it was also expressed in the act that the amount.
"due to the minor, Oliver HT. Kellam, Jr., was left in the hands
of Oliver J. Morgan, his grandfather, to be paid to his tutrix
and mother, Airs. M elinda Kellam, when demanded.
Shortly after this sale,' in March, 1858, the said Oliver J.
Morgan, by an act of sale and donation, transferred, or attempted to transfer, to his daughter Julia, three-fourths of all
his property, comprising the four plantations, Albion, Wilton,
Westland and Morgana. The transfer was made subject to
Mr. Morgan's own usufruct for life, and Julia and her husband
accepted the transfer by joining in the act. The object and
intent of the donor was expressed in the act, as follows, to wit:
'CNow, for the purpose of paying to the said Julia Morgan,
wife of Oliver T. Morgan, residents of this parish, she appearing and making herself a party to this deed with the authorization of her said husband, the said sum of sixty-seven thousand
four hundred and ninety-five dollars and -%7"
due as aforesaid,
and at the same time so to divide the entii'e landed estate of.

92

OCTOBER TERIMt, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

this appearer, as well that purehased by him at the sale aforesaid as all his other lands, so as to give to the said Julia Morgan, wife of said Oliver T. Morgan, three-fourths of his landed
estate, and to the said Oliver Il. Kellam one-fourth, in the
event that said Oliver H. Kellam survives this appearer, after
paying each of said heirs in lands according to the estimates
put upon the portions which may be conveyed to each, this
appearer makes this act of sale and donation unto the said
Julia Morgan of the following lands, and for the amounts of
the estimated value beyond the extinguishment of the debt
aforesaid, to wit ($67,495.70), this act is a donation of the lands
hereinafter described unto the said Julia Morgan and her heirs
forever:" [then follows a description of the several properties
transferred. The act then'proceeds]: "The estimated amount
-of the lands hereby conveyed and donated exceeds the amount
of the debt due the said Julia Morgan to the amount of two
hundred and thifty-six thousand seven hundred and fifty-eight
dollars and
($236,758.52). To the extent tbat it exceeds
three-fourths of the estimated value of the entire landed estate
of this appearer, after the extinguishment of the debt aforesaid, she is to pay over to the minor, Oliver H. Kellam, in the
event that he survives this appearer, to wit, the sum of nine
thousand five hundred and thirty-[three] dollars and seventytwo cents, it taking this amount to make up one-fourth of the
lands, upon the estimate now made, intended for the said
Oliver H. Kellam, jn extinguishment of the debt due him;
and beyond this payment of the debt, it being intended that
he should have the estimated value of one-fourth of the land
of this appearer ;. it being the intention of this appearer that
the said Julia 'organ shall have bey6nd the portion that she
would inherit as an heir all the portion that this appearer could
dispose of, so that his other grandchildren may get ultimately,
as near as may be, a portion equal to that which may fall t6
the said Oliver H. Kellam as a ' forced heir' to this appearer."
Then, after reserving the usufruct of all the lands during
the donor's own life, the act sets forth With particularity the
basis upon which the division of the lands was made, and the
valuation of the portion allotted to each heir, as follows: .-

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

"'Whole amount of community lands ......... $362,201 80
Lands acquired since the dissolution of the
community ....t.......................
75,760 00
Whole amount of land ..................... $437,961 80
Deduct amount due to heirs arising from sale
of community lands on the 18th of January,
'58. to each $67.495.70 ...................

134,991 40

Balance divided by four .......... $302,970 40
Portion coming to Oliver H. Kellam ........
Amount due him as above .................

$75,742 60
67,495 70

Entire interest of Oliver H. Kellam, in estimated value of lands .................... $143,238 30
Three-fourths interest for Julia Morgan ..... $227,227 80
Amount due as above .....................
67,495 70
Entire interest of Julia Morgan .... $294,723 50
Value of land conveyed in this deed to Julia
Morgan ............................... $304,254 22
Deduct entire interest ..................... 294,723 50
Excess to be accounted as before
stipulated .....................
$9,530 72"
This estimate of the then value of the lands has never been
questioned by any of the parties.
On the 1st of May, 1860, Oliver J. Morgan made his will;
and, after bequeathing some personal legacies, as if apprehending that the act of donation to Julia. might not be valid,
he disposed of his property in substantially the same manner
as he had done in said act. The following disposition was
made by the will:
"Fourth, I give and bequeath unto my beloved daughter,
Julia Morgan, one-half of all the residue of my estate, it being,

OCTOBER TERM\,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

my intention thereby to give to her all that portion of my
estate "th.t I have a right to dispose of over and above the
portions going to my forced heirs; and in the event of my
said daughter Julia dying before I do, then it is my will and I
do hereby bequeath unto her children, Karcissa Keene, Alexander 0. Keene, William .B. Keene, Morgan Keene and Julia
H. Morgan, or such of them as may be living at my death, the
said one-half of. my entire estate as above, it being my will
that my said daughtr shall have, inclusive of her forced heirship, three-fourths of my entire estate, but in the event that
should she die before I do, then it is my will and the express
intention of this testament that those of her children who may
be living at my death shall have the said three-fourths of my
estate."
The testator appointed Oliver T. Morgan, his nephew and
son-in-law, executor of his will, who proved the same in due
course, and in November, 1860, had an inventory of the estate
taken, which showed:
Real ,estate ................................... $947,153 80
Slaves ....................................... 196,961 00
Other personal property... ................... 38,200 00
Total ................................ $1,182,314 80
The represemitatives and heirs of Oliver J. Morgan went into,
or continued in, possession of his property in accordance with
his will and the intent he had expressed as to the undisposed
portion. The slaves were divided between them. Julia Morgan, his daughter, died before he did, in May, 1860, leaving
the children named'in his will, who were then minors. Her
husband, Oliver T. Morgan, executor of the will, and also
executor of his wife's will, took possession of the four plantations given to her, and then belonging to her children. He managed the property in their interest, being natural tutor of his
own daughter, Julia H. Morgan, who was only two years old
at her mother's death. Narcissa Keene, the eldest of Julia
Morgan's children, and the only one of the Keene children

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.

1?395

Opinion of the Court.

that seems to have survived childhood, says that she was thirteen at her mother's death, (May 1, 1860,) and was married to
Matthew F. Johnson, December 27, 1860. Henry Goodrich,
nephew of Oliver J. Morgan, and at one time manager of the
plantations, says that in 1861 the mansion house at Wilton
was occupied by Oliver T. Morgan and Matthew F. Johnson.
As stated in our former opinion, "through the management
of agents, and in other ways, considerable income was derived
from the lands prior to the sale which took place in 1869. The
crop of 1860 was over 2500 bales of cotton, which must have
produced at least $90,000 after General Morgan's death. The
sum of $21,800 was recovered from the government for cotton
collected under the superintendence of army officers in 1862
The defendant Buckner, being examined as a witness, states
that Montague had charge of and cultivated Melbourne and
Wilton in the year 1863, and H. B. Tebbetts had charge of
some of the places during 1861 and 1865. In 1866, H. B. Tebbetts rented Wilton and Melbourne. Don't think he took
Albion. He was to pay ten dollars per acre rent for all the
land that he cultivated. Tebbetts promised Matt. F. Johnson
and witness to pay ten dollars per acre for such land as he
should cultivate on Melbourne and Wilton in 1866. The most
of the land was overflowed on Melbourne in 1866, and witness
don't know how much land was cultivated. Wilton was not
overflowed in 1866, to his knowledge. Witness states that
Tebbetts paid him $3000 for the rent of. Melbourne in 1866.
Don't know how much he paid Matt. F. Johnson for Wilton,
but that the rent was coming to Matt. F. Johnson from Tebbetts, according to the contract. -,.,Matt. F. Johnson and Samuel L. Chambliss cultivated 'Wilton in 1867, together; that is
to say, a portion of the place. Charles Atkins cultivated a
small portion of Melbourne in 1868 as witness' agent and
manager. Very little was made on the place in 1868. Witness don't remember who cultivated Wilton and Albion in
1868.'"
It thus appears that at no time, after the death of Oliver J.
Morgan, except as they may -have, been interrupted by the
presence and depredations of troops durihg the war, did his.

.396 A

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.'
Opinion of the Court..

heirs cease to occupy and enjoy his property; but always in
separate parcels; Oliver T. Morgan and Matthew F. Johnson,
for the heirs of Julia Morgan, occupying the Albion, Wilton
and two outlying plantations, and Buckner, for the Kellam
heirs, occupying Melbourne. And this condition, of things
continued until the receiver in the Gay suit took possession of
the property at the end of 1884. Oliver T. Morgan died in
August, 1873, and from that time, or before, Matthew F. Johnson seems to have acted as the head of that branch of the
family in behalf of his wife and as tutor of her sister, Julia
H. Morgan. Henry Goodrich, nephew of Oliver J. Morgan,
.says that he took charge, as manager, of Wilton and Albion
plantations "in behalf of the heirs" in December, 1868, and
continued in charge until about April, 1873, when he was succeeded by C. M. Tilford in behalf of the same parties. Tilford
says that he became manager and agent of Wilton and Albion
plantations for Matthew F. Johnson in February, 1873; that
the contracts made by him with the laborers were in the name
of "Matthew F. Johnson, tutor for the minor children of
Julia Morgan;" and that he continued agent for 1873, 1874
and 1875, when he was succeeded by J. W. Erwin. Erwin
states that he came to take charge of the Wilton and Albion
plantations in behalf of "Matthew F. Johnson, and the heirs
of Julia Morgan," and had continued in charge until the time
of giving his testimony. These witnesses were examined in
March, "1878; and it is clear that if the character of executor
or dative executor was ever assumed by Oliver T. Morgan, or
Matthew F. Johnson, it was a mere matter of form, and that
they really possessed and managed the property for the heirs.
The will was substantially and in effect carried out in this
respect.
As to the interest of the other heir, Oliver H. Kellam, Jr.,
that was managed by his mother, Melinda Kellam, as his
natural tfitrix, and her second husband, John A. Buckner,
whom she married in April, 1859. They continued in possession of the Melbourne plantation, one of the most valuable
in the lot, representing the heir, just as Oliver J. Morgan had
intended they should do. There is no doubt that (with the

MELLEE

v. BUCKNER.

Opinion of the Court.

$9530.72 payable by Julia) the value of that plantation, at that
time, was abundantly equal to the amount due to Oliver H.
IKellam, Jr., ($67,495.70;) and, in addition thereto, equal to
the one-fourth part of Oliver J. Morgan's proper estate of
which said Kellam was forced heir. It was so estimated by
Mr. Morgan himself, and, as the subsequent inventory showed,
the estimate was a low one; and the parties interested acquiesced in it.
As things then stood, therefore, the estate was liable and
subject, in the hands of the heirs and executor, to the debts of
Oliver J. Morgan, except such portions thereof as were received
by the heirs in payment of the debts due to them on account
of his wife's interest in the community property. The portion
so received by Julia Morgan's heirs was valued at $67,495.70,
due to her, and $9530.72, to be paid by her to Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., in all $77,026.42 out of the $304,254-.22 worth of
lands allotted to her, or 25Nu per cent of those lands. The
portion so received by Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., or those acting
for him, was valued at $67,495.70 due to him, less the sum of
$9530.72 to be received from Julia's heirs; which would leave
$57,964.98 out of $133,707.58,1 the valuation placed on the
Melbourne plantation; or 43-%- per cent of that plantafion.
These portions of the lands. respectively received by the heirs
by way of payment were justly free from the claims of Oliver
J. Morgan's creditors, supposing them not to have been personally liable, (being minors,) by reason of the portions received
by them respectively as heirs or legatees. This was substantially the view which we entertained, though not fully expressed, in the case of Johnson v. TFaters.
We held in that case that the act of sale and donation made
by Oliver J. MQrgan to his daughter Julia in March, 1858, was
void as a donation; and that if it could be held good as a sale
it could only be for the part which went to pay her the amount
due from her mother's estate, together with the amount she
was directed to pay to Oliver H. Kellam, Jr.; but whether
good as a sale in part we did not then decide, though inclined

I This

sum is obtained thus: $143,238.30 less $9530.72= $133,707.58.

OCTOBER TER M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-

to think that it was. The court below seems to be of opinion
that it was not. But we have seen nothing to change the
impression which we then had; especially as the donor expressly declared in the act itself that he intended it as a-sale
in part and a donation in part; a sale to the extent of the
amount due his said daughter, and a donation as to the residue.
This view makes still stronger the position that the part which
was received by way of sale was free from the debts of Oliver
J. Morgan. We have given carefal attention to the argument
made on behalf of the heirs of Julia Morgan in favor of the
validity of the donation, but adhere to our former view on
-that subject. It is unnecessary to go over the subject again.
Counsel is mistaken in supposing that any importance was.
attached to the designation of the consideration of that act as
a "charge."
In that regard we only held that, even if it was
acharge, it was not sufficient in amount to make the donation
an onerous one.
That Julia Morgan and her heirs were concluded by the
dispositions made by her father seems clear*; for she and her
husband joined in the act of donation and sale, and the will
did not change the destination of the estate. It is contended,
hbowever,. that Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., being then an infant,
and not represented in the judicial proceedings taken, or in
the acts executed by Oliver J. Morgan, was not bound thereby.
Even if that were so, we do not see that the position of things
would be substantially changed. The fact was that Mr. Morgan's arrangements had long been in contemplation and bad
been partially carried out before his death. He had put the
Kellams in possession of the Melbourne plantation several
years before, and intended that plantation as going to make
up their share of the whole estate; and his daughter Julia and
her family lived with himself, and her husband had special
charge and possession of Westland, (if not of Miforgana,) and
came into possession of all except Melbourne on Mr. Morgan's
death. After that; both parties continued in possession in
accordance with the disposition made by him. 'Each heir had
the portion intended for him or her, and if the debt which he
formally incurred to them for his wife's community property

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

was not technically paid, nevertheless they received that identical property in specie in the shape of the lands which were
allotted to them.- The proceedings instituted by Mr. Morgan
for obtaining his wife's interest in the community property
were more of a transaction on paper than a real one, and produced no change in, the devolution of the estate. The heirs
obtained all that they would have been entitled to in any
event; and whether they received the portion coming from
their ancestor, Karcissa Deeson, by way of inheritance from
her, or by way of payment for that inheritance, it all came to
the same thing in an equitable point of view. In either case
they were entitled to hold it free from the debts of Oliver J.
Morgan, and had no claim as creditors against his other property. The attempt now to set up those debts, or' either of
them, for the purpose of defeating the just claims of the real
creditors is clearly inequitable. This was our view in the
former case, and it is not. changed by anything that has been
shown in the cases now under consideration.
The bill in the case of JoAnson v. ators was specially
directed to set aside as fraudulent and void a pretended sale
of all the lands of Oliver J. Morgan, made in January, 1869.
John A. Buckner, one of the plaintiffs in the present case, had
applied to the parish court of Carroll parish for a sale of all of
said lands to pay the debts of the estate, and particularly the
pretended debt of $67,495.7O, due to his daughter Mollie Buckner as heir of Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., alleging that it was a
judgment debt, and had a preference over other claims; and
Oliver T. Morgan, As executor, intervened in the petition in
aid thereof. An order of sale was accordingly made, a sale
followed, and John A. Buckner became the purchaser of the
Melbourne, Wilton and Albion plantations, at three dollars per
acre; and the other two plantations were sold for the same
price, one to J. W. Montgomery, one of the lawyers in the
case, and the other to F. M. Goodrich, another of the lawyers
therein. The fa6ts with regard to this transaction are fully
stated in the opinion in Johnson v. TWater., 111 U. S. 655, 669.
Suffice it to say, that we were satisfied from the evidence that
the sale and all the proceedings that resulted in the sale were

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

fraudulent in fact, and conceived and carried out for the sole
purpose of defrauding the real creditors of Oliver J. Morgan,
deceased, and of getting in the title for the benefit of the heirs
without paying any of the debts. We accordingly concurred
with the Circuit Court in setting aside the said sale as fraudulent and void for fraud in fact; and not on the ground, as, in
the bill of complaint in one of the present cases, is ingeniously,
if not ingenuously, surmised, that the fraud consisted in Buckner's pretending to be, as tutor of his daughter, a creditor of
the succession of Oliver J. Morgan for the sum of $67,495.70
with preference; though the setting up of that debt in the
manner in which it was done was one of the means employed
for carrying out said fraud. The evidence on this subject is
quite fully set forth in the opinion in ohnson v. Taters, and
need not be further adverted to. It is all introduced in the
present cases by stipulation, and we find nothing in the evidence taken in these cases to alter our opinion. It is unnecessary to notice the pretended judgment of Buckner, as tutor of
Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., against the estate of the latter, as it
can haie no effect on the rights of the parties in these suits,
being, in any event, subordinate to the claims of Oliver J.
Morgan 's creditors. The assertion in the brief of counsel that
said judgment was the debt sought to be recovered by the
probate proceedings and sale in 1868-9 is contradicted by
Buckner himself in his bill filed in these cases.
Our conclusion and decree then were:
1s;. That the debt of Gay, the complainant, as represented
by his administrator, Waters, (now by Mellen, administrator
de bonis non,) be established and confirmed.
2d. That the sales complained of, made in January, 1869, be
declared null and void, as against the estate of Gay and the
other creditors of Oliver J. Morgan, deceased; and that it be
referred to a master to take and state an account of the assets
belonging to said Morgan's estate in the hands of the dative
testamentary executor, Matthew F. Johnson, one of the defendants; and to give notice to creditors to come in and prove
their debts.
3d. That if other assets were not sufficient to pay such

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

debts, the master should sell so much of 'the said lands as
might be necessary to pay them; dividing the proceeds _ro
rata if not sufficient to pay all the creditors whose debts
should be established, after paying all the complainants' costs.
4th. That the master might apply for instructions, especially
as to whether the succession of Julia Morgan was entitled to
any portion of the proceeds arising from the sale of the lands,
by virtue of said act of donation and sale made to her by
Oliver J. Morgan in 1858. so far as said act was a sale and not
a donation.
The cause was remanded to the Circuit Court, a reference
was ordered according to the decree, and the matter was
opened before the master. On this reference the heirs of
Julia Morgan and Buckner as representative of the Kellam
interest presented each their claim for $67,495.70, and interest,
as a debt against the estate of Oliver J. Morgan, deceased, as
if the reference included them and was intended for their benefit, as creditors of his estate. But said claim was presented
with reservation of rights to be set forth in the bills now
before us, which they proposed to file.
Thereupon they filed the bills in the two cases now here on
appeal.
One of thebills is filed by John A. Buckner for himself and
as tutor of his minor child, Etheline Buckner, in the nature of
a cross-bill against Stephenson Waters, (for wxhom Delos C
Mellen has been substituted,) administrator, etc., of William
Gay, deceased; and is in fact, as it is styled, a bill in the nature of a cross-bill to the said suit of Gay referred to as Johnson. v. Maters. By a strange fatality in the course of events,
Buckner and his daughter, the present representatives of Ann
Kellam, (n~e Morgan,) and of her grandson, Oliver H. Kellam,
Jr., have not a particle of -Morgan or Kellam blood. Oliver
H. Kellam, Jr., the last of that line, died. young, leaving as his
heirs his mother, Melinda Kellam, and his half brother and
sister, children of his mother by John A. Buckner. The
mother and brother dying, the sistef Louise (or Mollie) and
her father Buckner became the heirs. Louise dying, left her
father, Buckner, and her half sister by a second.wife of Buck
voL.. cxxxix-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ner, her heirs. So that the succession of the Morgan-Kellam
line has dome to be represented by entire strangers.
The other bill is filed by Narcissa iKeene, wife of Matthew
F. Johnson, and' Julia H. Morgan, wife of George G. Johnson,
their husbands joining for the sake of conformity. It is filed
as an original bill in the nature of a supplemental bill and
cross-bill, against Stephenson Waters, (for whom Delos C. Mellen has been substituted,) administrator, etc., of William Gay,
deceased. Karcissa K. Johnson is the only survivor of the
K{eene children of Julia Morgan, and Julia H. Johnson is the
daughter of Julia Morgan by her second husband, Oliver T.
M organ.
The frame of the two bills is substantially the same. They
first assert that the complainants, in their character of heirs
and -representatives of Ann Kellam and Julia Morgan respectively, were not parties to the suit of foknson v. Waters, and are
not bound by the decree therein. This averment is in a.measure true. That suit was brought against Oliver T. Morgan,
the executor of Oliver J. Morgan, (who made the fraudulent
sale complained of,) and John A. Buckner, J. West Montgomery, and Ferdinand M. Goodrich, the purchasers at that sale.
Whilst this is so, it is also true that the real controversy in the
whole case was stoutly litigated. Buckner, one of the present
complainants, was the principal and most interested defendant; and Oliver T. Morgan was the executor both of Oliver
J. Morgan and his own wife, Julia Morgan. The bills then go
on -to give the history of the estate of Oliver J. Morgan, and
Nancy Deeson's community interest, the sale of that interest to
'Morgan, the act of donation and srle to Julia Morgan, etc., referring to the printed record in Jonson v. Waters for the copy
of the act. Buckner, in his bill, claims that the Melbourne plantation, when given to the Kellams, was uncleared and unimproved, and the ancestor of Oliver HT. Kellam, Jr., cleared and
improved it, and the Kellams always treated it as their own
property, with the assent of Oliver J. Morgan. He refers to
the proceedings in the larish court in 1868-9, and the sale in
January, 1869, as prosecuted in good faith, and free from any
:fraudulent intent; but he admits that this court set aside the

MELLEN -v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

said sale as fraudulent, and avers (though untruly) that the
court declared that the fraud consisted in ]3uckner's pretending to be (as tutor) a creditor of the succession of 0. J. Morgan for '$67,495.70, with preference, when, in reality and in
equity, there was no such thing as a debt due from him to his
grandson, because the giving and setting apart of Melboui'ne
plantation to the Kellams was intended to be in satisfaction of
their rights in the succession of Narcissa Deeson, and in point
of fact the succession of 0. J. Morgan owed no debt to Oliver
H. Kellam, Jr. Adopting this version of the decree of this
court, lBuckner says that he is well satisfied to accept said
plantation on that basis, and abandon all claim as creditor of
0. J. Morgan, and offers to do so on the rendition of a decree
recognizing him and his child, Etheline, as owners of said
plantation, and prays for such a decree. Otherwise be claims
one-half of the community property in conjunction with Julia
Morgan's heirs. He mentions having presented his claim for
$67,495.70 before the master, with a reservation; and submits
his rights to the court.
He alleges that such are the complications of the rights of
the heirs in consequence of the action of Oliver J. Morgan, and
his representatives, and the creditors, that the aid of the court
is necessary to adjust the rights of all the parties, and hence
he files his bill for its direction in the premises and for the
protection of his rights and those of his child, Etheline.
The bill of Narcissa K. Johnson and Julia H. Johnson is
similar to that of Buckner, and prays similar relief.
The defendant Waters, administrator of Gay, filed answers
to these bills, in which he takes the ground that the plantations in question became the sole property of Oliver J. Morgan.
by virtue of his purchase of the same in 1858, at the sale of
the community property; but that the debt incurred for such
purchase has been fully paid to the heirs by their reception and
enjoyment of the revenues and profits of the lands; that they
went into possession of said lands as heirs of Oliver J. Morgan
without benefit of inventory, and thus became personally liable
for all his debts; and that if the debts due to them have not
been fully.paid, they have at least become subordinate and

OCTOBER TER- ,1890.
Opinion of the Court.

inferior to the debt due to the defendant, and have also become
prescribed by lapse of time; and they plead the prescription
of three, five and ten years.
On the 5th of March, 1885, the solicitors of the respective
parties entered into a written agreement that the two causes
should be consolidated and tried together, and considered as if
the complainants in .each had been made defendants in the
other, and that Matthew F. Johnson, in his capacity of dative
testamentary executor of Oliver J. Morgan, should appear and
become a party; and that the bill in each case should be
treated as an answer in the other case. Johnson appeared
accordingly as dative testamentary executor, and filed a paper
admitting the facts set forth in the bills of complaint.In July, 1885, the following stipulation, agreed to by the
solicitors of the parties, was entered into in the consolidated
case:
"The parties, by their solicitors, for the purpose of avoiding
delay and expense, and of bringing these causes to a speedy
trial, stipulate as follows:
"1st. The answers fied in these causes, before consolidation,
shall be taken and considered as the answers to the consolidated causes, and apply to new parties introduced since they
were filed as well as to those then parties.
"2d. The causes shall be considered at issue as if replications had been filed, and no further replications than the provisions of this agreement shall be necessary.
"3d. A copy of the record in cause 6612, referred to in the
pleadings in these causes, and numbered 291 on the docket
of the Supreme Court of the United States, as the same was
printed for use in the Supreme Court of the United States,
shall be filed in evidence." [This is the record in Johnon v.
Waters.] "All documents copied therein shall be taken and
considered as if they were separately authenticated by the
proper officer and without other evidence of their authenticity
than the fact that they are found in said printed record.
"It is not intended by this agreement lo waive any legal
objection to the introduction in evidence of any document or
de,positions printed in said record which might or could be

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

made to the original depositions if produced and offered, objections as to form being waived.
"1th. The judgment and decree of the Supreme Court of
the United States in said cause 6612, (297 of that court,) as the
same is printed -in Vol. 111 of the printed reports, may be used
in evidence without further proof or the production of a certified copy thereof; but this agreement, in this respect, is intended to waive form only and not any objection to the
admissibility in evidence of said decree on other grounds, nor
to its effect when introduced in evidence."
The parties thereupon took further evidence. A certificate
of the clerk of the District Court for the parish of Carroll,
custodian of its probate and succession records, showed that
Oliver T. Morgan, executor of the succession of Oliver J. Morgan, never filed or rendered any account of his administration
of said succession, except one purporting to be a final account,
filed 8th February, 1870; and as executor of Julia M organ,
never filed or rendered'any account whatever; and that Matthew F. Johnson, dative testamentary executor of the succession of Oliver J. Morgan, never filed or rendered any account,
or any bond. The final account of Oliver T. Morgan, referred
to by the clerk, was a mere perfunctory one, exhibiting an
exact balance of receipts and disbursements; the receipts consisting of the bids for the property at the fraudulent sale of
January, 1869, and the disbursements, consisting of credits on
the pretended claims of the bidders, Buckner and the lawyers
and certain creditors whom they professed to represent. The
truth is, as before intimated, that there never was any bona
fide administration of the estate; but each of the two sets of
heirs, or their tutors for them, took and kept possession of the
respective portions of the real property intended for them by
Oliver J.Morgan, and divided between themselves and took
possession of the slaves and other property of the estate. The
comllainants, Karcissa K. Johnson and Julia H. Johnson,
testifying as witnesses in the case, allege that they never
received anything from the estate. But this is hardly consistent with the fact that Oliver T. Morgan, the father of one of
them, and step-father of the other, lived with them on the

OCTOBER TERAE, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

property, and on his death Matthew F. Johnson, the husband
of 1{arcissa, was appointed dative testamentary executor, and
in that nominal capacity had control of all the property not
occupied by Buckner or by the lawyers who bid off the Westland and Morgana plantations, udtil the said Julia married,
when she and her husband, George G. Johnson, were put into
possession of a portion of it. They have lived on the property
as their own, and have received and enjoyed Whatever it was
capable of yielding. This is shown by the testimony of Goodrich, Tilford and Erwin, before referred to, and there is much
more evidence in the case to the same purport.
The same thing is true with regard to the occupation of
-Melbourne by the Kellam branch of the family, namely, by
Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., with his mother and natural tutrix, and
by John A. Buckner and his children. The only pretension of
their being unpaid creditors of the succession was made as a
part of that fraudulent scheme which resulted in the sale of
January, 1869, which we have already decreed to be void, and
with regard to which we still hold the same opinion.
- The testimony of John A. Buckner himself, taken in the
original cause, substantially corroborates this view of the' case.
In addition to what has already been quoted from his examination, he then said:
"Witness says that he has never had corporeal possession of
Wilton or Albion plantations. Since the war Matt. F. Johnson has had the actual control and management of Wilton and
Albion plantations, as he, witness, supposed, in interest of his
wife, one of the heirs, and the other heirs of Julia Morgan.
Matt. F. Johnson and the heirs of Julia Morgan have never
set up anyadverse claim to witness in regard to Melbourne
plantation.
I
"They have confined their pretensions to Wilton and
Albion, and have had the control of said plantations ever
since the war, though Oliver T. Morgan, as executor, has exercised some authority over the property. . .
"Matt. F.. Johnson, in behalf, as witness supposes, of the
heirs of Julia Morgan, has exercised full control over the property and leased and controlled the property and exercised the

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.

407"

Opinion of the Court.

rights of ownership over the same ever since the war, except.
that Oliver T.,Morgan, executor, exercised authority several.
years after the war.
"Witness says that the heirs of Julia Morgan have always:

claimed a greater share of the property than they considered.
him entitled to, as representing one of the heirships. There.
were two heirships to Judge Morgan's estate. One witness
represents, and the other the heirs of Julia Morgan represent.
'The following quest'on is propounded by counsel for complainant :-In the distribution of the property among the
heirs of Oliver X. Morgan, wherein the heirs of Julia Morgan
took Wilton and Albion and restricted witness, representing
another heirship, to Melbourne, why did the heirs require such
an unequal division? Was it or not on account of the extraordinary pretensions they set up as heirs of Julia Morgan, or
why was it?
"Witness says it was because they claimed three-fourths- of
the estate. He does not know upon what their claim is based.
Witness refers counsel to the records; says that there has
been no final division between the heirs. The heirs of Julic&
.AMorgar have held possession of the land they had before the
war, and witness has held possession of the land he had before
the war. Witness does not hold the property in common;
there is only a temporary division.
"Witness has held possession of Melbourne ever since the
war, and the heirs of Julia Morgan have held possession of
Wilton and Albion, except that the heirs recognized Oliver T.
forgan as executor, but he did not require of them any account of the rents and revenues.
"Witness says that his understanding was at the time of the
sale, in January, 1869, when he bought in the property for the
heirs, that they were to receive their proportion of the land purchased in witness' name, and he was to retainhis proportion.
"They were (the heirs of Julia Morgan) to take three-fourths
of the land and witness one-fourth, and this understanding
was had as to the exact amount in the division after the sale.
There was no conversation or agreement with the heirs, or any
other parties, as to how the division should be made."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Buckner was re~xaminea in the present cases, and states
still more explicitly the fact that the Melbourne plantation
was possessed and operated by him in the interest of the Kellam heirs, including his own children. He says:
"I married Mrs. Melinda Kellam, April 7th, 1859. Her
son, Oliver H. Kellam, died in September, 1863. He was
seven years old at the time of his death. My wife, Mrs. Melinda Kellam, died in September,- 1863. My son John died
one week afterwards. He was three years old at the time of
his death. My daughter Louisa (called Mollie) died in March,
1883, and was 21 years and 6 months old at the time of her
death.
"Melbourne plantation was first set apart and given by
Oliver J. Morgan to the ancestor of his great grandson, Oliver
H. Kellam, (the son of my first wife,) in 1$53.
"The Kellams cultivated it as their own; had their own
merchant, raised their own money with which to improve and
plant the place; and were never called to account for rents or
revenues, and never did so account for them, either to Judge
Morgan or to any one else.
"It was in the possession of my wife, Mrs. Melinda Kellam,
as natural tutrix, and myself, as cotutor--to the minor, Oliver
H. Kellam, at the time of the death of Oliver J. Morgan. The
said plantation remained in the continuous possession of the
Kellams or their representatives from the time it was originally given or set apart to them by Oliver J. Morgan until
dispossessed by the receiver appointed by the court in suit
No.6612."
This was on his cross-examination. On his direct examination he had said:
"Oliver J. Morgan died in the spring of 1860. Upon his
death the Melbourne plantation was claimed by and was in
the possession.of (as it had been for many years before) the
Kellam heir. The other places were claimed by the heirs of
Julia Morgan, but the executor took possession or control, and
exercised authority over all but Melbourne. There was a
change in 1869; after the succession sale took place Morgana
was controlled by F. M. Goodrich, until he transferred it to

MELLEN v. BUCKWER.

409

Opinion of the Court.

Samuel Boyd, of New Orleans, who had possession until 1st
January, 1885.
"Westland after 1869 went under the control of some of
the creditors of 0. J. Morgan, and remained so until 1st Jan.,
1885, and Col. Matt. Johnson controlled Wilton and Albion
until about 1879, when Mr. Geo. Johnson took control of the
lower part of Wilton and Albion.
"How much was controlled by the latter I do not know,
and these two places r-mained under their control until- 1st
Jan., 1885.
"As to .Ielbourne, it has never passed out of the r'epresentative of the .Yellam interest."
The pretence that the Melbourne plantation was intended
as a pure gift by Oliver J. Morgan to the Kellam family cannot be seriously maintained in view of the express declarations
and provisions to the contrary made by Mr. Morgan in his
lifetime; and is contradicted by the conduct of Buckner himself, in procuring Melbourne to be sold as part of the property
of Oliver J. Morgan, at the sale of January, 1869, and becoming the purchaser himself, and filing a petition for homologation in which he expressly declares that it belonged to the
estate of Oliver J. Morgan, deceased.
In addition to the evidence taken in the former case, iurtlher
evidence has been taken in the present cases, as to the rental
value of the property from the time of Oliver J. M organ's
death, and the value of the fruits and revenues which have
been derived from it; and in this connection the complainants
have adduced evidence to show that they have been at large
expenses for repairs and for restoration of the lands after
floods. We have carefully examined the evidence on these
points, both that which, has been adduced in the present suits
and that which was taken in the case of Johnson v. Waters,
and, without attempting to give an abstract of it, we shall onlv
state our conclusion, which is substantially the same as that at
which we arrived in that case, namely, that any debt which
may have been due from Oliver J. Morgan to his heirs was
more than satisfied by their receiving that portion of the property which was intended by him as a satisfaction, and by the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

rents and revenues received since his death. Though heirs
with benefit of inventory, (being for the most part minors at
the time of their becoming such,) they were nevertheless
chargeable, as against any claims of their own, for what the
estate was worth when the succession commenced; and that
far exceeded the amount of s~ch claims. Changeurv. Gravuer,
4 Martin, N. S. 68.
We think, however, that it would be proper, not as a matter
of strict right, but on equitable grounds, that they should have
some allowance or consideration, beyond the use of the property, for improvements which they have placed upon it, and
for restoration of its condition after floods and other devastations. But, in view of the conflicting evidence as to the
annual value of the lands, since Oliver J. Morgan's death, and
the great lapse of time that has occurred, it would be difficult,
if not impossible, to arrive at any precise and accurate adjustment of the equities arising out of all the complications of the
case; and the creditors might well say that their claims should
have been satisfied when the estate was abundantly able 'to
pay them, and before the restorations were necessary. The
best that can be done, with a view to the interest of all the
parties, and the termination of a vexatious litigation, is to
make such award and decree as, on the whole, seems most
equitable and just. With this view, we see no better disposition to be made than to increase somewhat the percentage of
interest in'the lands to be reserved to the complainants, and
to order a division of the lands to be made, if they shall so
desire. This will enable each party to obtain and secure his,
or their,. own rights without sacrificing those of the others.
To allow the complainants to go before the master in the Gay
suit, and prove their antiquated claims, principal and interest,
would enable them to sweep away nearly all the property,
and leave the creditors nothing. This certainly would be most
inequitable. Whilst to allow the creditors to sell the whole
property in order to raise the amount of their debts would be
equally inequitable, for it would leave nothing for the heirs,
who have a meritorious claim arising from the interest of their
ancestor, Karcissa Deeson. We think it is admissible ,and,

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

under all the circumstances of the case, would be just, to increase the interest to be reserved to the heirs of Julia Morgan
in the four plantations allotted to them, from 25 u per cent
to forty per cent or two-fifths, and to increase the interest to
be reserved to the heirs of Oliver H. Kellam, Jr., in the Melbourne plantation from 43 -- per cent to fifty per cent, or
one-half. And in setting off to them their separate portions
respectively as thus defined, if they shall desire the same to be
so set off, any permanent buildings which they may have
erected on said portions should not be added to the value of the
lands thus assigned to them, in making the division between
them and the creditors. The remainder of the lands should be
sold for the benefit of Gay's administrator and the other creditors who shall have established their claims before the master
in the original suit, not including the complainants. If the
heirs should not desire to have their portions set off separately,
then the whole property is to be sold, and they are to receive
their proportional share of the proceeds, but no allowance for
buildings. If any moneys remain in the hands of the receiver
beyond the expenses incurred by him and his proper compensation, they should be divided between the creditors and heirs
in the proportions above stated; and the portion due to the
heirs should be applied, as far as requisite, to the payment of
the costs awarded against them.
We have thus far expressed our views of the equities and
legal aspects of the case without referring to particular laws
or decisions. But, it is proper to add, that, besides other portions of the Civil Code of Louisiana., the following articles
have been constantly borne in mind:
Art. 254. "If a mother who is tutrix to her children, wishes
to marry again, she must, previous to the celebration of the
marriage, apply to the judge in order to have a meeting of the
family called for the purpose of deciding whether she shall
remain tutrix."

.

.

Art. 255. "When the family meeting shall retain the mother
in the tutorship, her second husband becomes of necessity the
cotutor, who, for the administration of the property, subsequently to his marriage', becomes bound in solido with his wife."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

We assume that the due formalities were observed with
regard to the tutorship of the minor heirs who from time to
time became interested in the property of Oliver J. Morgan.
This presumption is the most favorable to the parties, and
should be made unless the contrary appears.
Art. 352. "It shall not be necessary for minor heirs to make
any formal acceptance of a succession that may fall to them,
but .such acceptance shall be considered as made for them with
benefit of inventory by operation of law, and shall in all
respects have the force and effect of, formal acceptance."
Art. 1032. "The benefit of inventory is the privilege which
the heir obtains of being liable for the charges and debts of
the succession only to the value of the effects of the succession,
by causing an inventory of those effects to be made within the
time and in the manner hereinafter prescribed."
The heir with benefit of inventory is bound only to the
amount the estate was worth at his ancestor's death. Of
course he is bound to that extent. Changeur v.. Gravier
4 M artin N. S. 68.
Art. 1054. "The effect of the benefit of inventory is that it
gives the heir the advantage:
"1. Of being discharged from the debts of the succession by
abandoning all the assets of the succession to the creditors and
legatees.
"2. Of not confounding his own effects with those of the
succession, and of preserving against it the right of claiming
the debts due from it."
In the present case the heirs did not abandon the assets of
the succession, to the creditors, and the debts due to them from
the estate were satisfied in the manner hereinbefore stated.
The portion of the property received in satisfaction we propose shall be set off to them in severalty, if they shall desire
it, so that it may not be confounded with the residue.
Art. 1058. ".But if the heir declares that he is not willing
to accept the succession otherwise than with the benefit of an
inventory, the person appointed administrator of th. estate,
whether it was the heir himself or any other individual, shall
proceed to the sale of the property of the succession and to

MELLEN _v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

the settlement of its affairs, as prescribed in the following
articles: The beneficiary heir shall, at the time of such settlement, have a right to be paid, as any other creditor, all debts
due him by the deceased, and shall, moreover, be entitled to
the balance of the proceeds of the sale of the estate, if any
such balance be left after the payment of all the debts and
charges of the succession."
As the debts due to the heirs in the present case were satisfled and paid by the property received for that purposel this
article has no special bearing upon the result.
The question arising from the incapacity of minor heirs has
already been adverted to.
Upon the final hearing of the cases as consolidated, the
court below, on the 15th of June, 1886, made the following
decree, to wit:
"These consolidated causes came on to be heard at this term
on final hearing and were argued by counsel, and thereupon,
upon consideration thereof, it isordqred, adjudged and decreed
by the court that the bills of complaint of the complainants,
John A. Buckner and others and Narcissa Keene, wife of Matt.
F. Johnson, and others, be dismissed, reserving the right to
said complainants, except said Buckner in his own right, to go
before the master appointed in the case of Waters, Adm'r, v.
Johnson et al., INo. 6612 of the docket of this court, and prove
up as ordinary claims -against the estate of Oliver J. Morgan
such sums as may be due them on account of the original indebtedness of Oliver J. Morgan to the heirs of Narcissa Deeson, which indebtedness is hereby recognized as originally
$134,991.40, provided said complainants shall account for said
property, rents and revenues of the said estate of Oliver J.
Morgan as came. to their hands as heirs or grantees of said
Oliver J. Morgan, and it is ordered that said complainants do
pay all the costs of the suit, said costs to be equally divided
between the complainants in the two causes respectively."
On a full consideration of the case, we think that this decree
should be reversed, and that a new and different decree should
be made. Instead of dismissing the bills of the complainants,
we think that those bills, being in the nature of cross-bills in

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the suit of Waters, (now Mellen,) administrator of Gay, against
the executor of Morgan and others, should be retained and
consolidated with that suit;, and instead of reserving to the
complainants in the present suits the right to go before the
master in that case and prove their claims against the estate
of Oliver J. Morgan for any supposed indebtedness due to
them as heirs of iNarcissa Deeson, (which indebtedness should
be declared to be paid and satisfied,) a certain portion of the
said plantations and real estate of Oliver J. Morgan, before
referred to, should be reserved to them free from the claims
.of the creditors of said Morgan; that is to say, two-fifths of
the four plantations, Albion, Wilton, Westland and Morgana,
should be reserved for the benefit of the heirs of Julia Morgan,
deceased, and one-half of the Melbourne plantation should be
reserved for the benefit of the 'heirs of Oliver H. Kellam, Jr.,
deceased; and th~e remaining interest in the said plantations
should be subjected to the payment and satisfaction- of the
debt due to said administrator of William Gay, deceased, and
the debts of other creditors of Oliver J. Morgan who may have
established their claims before the master in said Gay's suit in
pursuance of the decree therein, not including any pretended
claim or claims of the said Morgan's heirs. And the said portions so to be appropriated to the said heirs respectively, should
be divided and set off to them in severalty, if they so. dfesire,
without charging them with the value of any permanent buildings erected by them on such portions. And a decree should
be made for the sale -of all remaining property in convenient
parcels, and for an appropriation of the proceeds among the
creditors as above stated. But if the heirs do not desire a
severance of their portions, the whole to be sold, and they to
receive their respective portions of the proceeds, but no' allowance for buildings. In carrying out the said diredtions, if the
heirs shall desire their portions to be set off in severalty, they
may designate- any buildings erected by them which they wish
to retain, and the portion set off to them shall include said
buildings, if it can be done without prejudice to the other
parts; and in that case the value of such buildings shall not
be included in the aggregate valuation of the land, nor charged

MELLEN v. BUCKNER.
Opinion of the Court.

to the heirs in the valuation of the portion so set off to them
with said buildings. And such decree should be made as the
decree in the present consolidated case, and as a supplemental
decree in the principal case, to which the present is related as
by cross-bill.
Each party should pay their ow'n costs on this appeal, except the costs of printing the record, which should be equally
divided between the two parties, appellants and appellees.
The costs in the court below up to this time should be paid by
the complainants, as directed in the decree of the Circuit
Court.
The cause is remanded to the court below with directions to
proceed in conformity with this opinion.
Decree.

It is now here ord6'ed and decreed that the said decree of
the Circuit Court be reversed, and that a new and diferent
decree be made in this consolidated case, and by way of supplement to the decree in the principal case of William Gay's
administrator against ilfatthew F. Johnson, dative testamentary ececutor of Oliver J. .3forgan, and others, that is to
say, it is ordered and decreed that the bills filed'by the complainants in the causes herein consolidated be retained, and
the cases consolidated with the said principal case of Gay's
administrator against Morgan's dative testamentary executor
and others; but that -allreliefprayed in and by said bills fled
in, the present cases be denied except as herein declared,
namely: it is decreed that instead "f reserving to the said
complainants the right to go before the master in said suit.of
Gay's administrator, and to prove. their claims against the
estate of 'said Oliver J. Mforgan, deceased, for any suposed
indbtedness to them as -heirs of -Narcissa'Deeson, the said
'claims are hereby declared to be satisfied and paid; and that
in place of said supposed claims -the said heirs are entitled to
have and retain a certain portion of said Oliver J. Morgan's
estatefreefrom the claims of his creditors, 'asfollows, tq wit:
two-fifths of the four plantations, Albion, Wilton, Westland
and .Morgana,are directed and decreed *to be "reservedfor the

OCTOBER TERM3,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

benefit of the heirs of Julia .Morgan,deceased; and one-half of
felbourne plantation is directed and decreed to be reserved
for the benefit of the heirs qf Oliver EI. Kellam, Jr., deceased;
and that the remaining interest in the said plantations is dereed and adjudged to be subject to the payment and satisfaction qf the debts due to the administratorof said William. Gay,
deceased, and to the other creditors who shall have established
their debts before the master in said Gay's suit, not including
the complainants in this consolidatedcause; and it is further
decreed that the portions so to be appropriatedto said heirs
respectively be set off to them in severalty, if they shall so
desire, without charging them for the value of any permanent
buildings erected by them thereon; and that all the remainingportions of laidplantations be sold in convenient parcels,
and the proceeds appropriatedto the creditors as above stated.
And power is reserved to the court below to appoint commissioners to make division of said property in the proportions
above named before said sale shall take place. But if the
heirs shall not desire a severance of their portions, then the
whole property to be sold, and they to receive their respaective
portions of theproceeds, but no allowancefor buildings. Any
moneys in the hands of the receiver, afterpaying his expenses
and compensation, are to be divided between the creditors and
heirs in the proportions above stated, applying the amount
duz to the heirs, so far as may be requisite, to the costs payable by them. in carrying out the said directions, if the heirs
shall desire their portions to be set off in severalty, they may
designate any buildings erected by them which they wish to
retain,and the portion set off to them shall include said buildings, if it can be done without prejudice to the other parts;
and in that *case the value of such buildings shall not be included in the aggregate valuation of the land, nor charged to
the heirs in the valuation of the portion so set off to them with
said buildings. Itis further decreed that each -partyshall pay
their own. costs on these appeals, except the cost of printing
the record, which shall be equally divided. It is also decreed
that the costs in the Circuit Court up to the present time be
paid by the complainants as directed in the decree appealede

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Syllabus.

from. It is further decreed that the cause be remanded withI
directions to the Cirmdt Court for the Eastern District of
.Louisiana -to enter a decree in conformity herewith, and to
proceed in accordancewith the opinion of this court herewith

fled.
3.F'JusTxE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BRowN were not
members of the court when this case was argued, and took no

part in th6 decision.

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 1516. Submitted January 12, 1891.-Decided March 30,1891.

The failure to enter a vote of stockholders In a corporation In the corporation records at the time when it was adopted does not affect its
validity.
A resolution of stockholders in a corporation organized under the laws of
Kentucky to increase the capital stock of the corporation, passed at a
meeting held without the limits of that State, is binding upon the members present and voting for it.
An increase by a Kentucky corporation of its capital stock within the
amount authorized by'law is not invalidated by reason of the fact that
no amendment of the charter authorizing such increase was ever recorded
or published as required by the laws of that State.
When a stockholder in a corporation who assents to an increase in the capital stock of the corporation and its gratuitous distribution among the
shareholders, receives such stock as full. paid stock, an obligation arises
to pay for it in full, when called upon to do so by creditors whose debts
are subsequent to the authorization of the increase: but this equity does
not exist in favor of a creditor whose debt was contracted prior to such
authorization.
An active corporation, finding its original capital impaired by loss or misfortune, may, for the purpose of recuperating itself, and of producing
new conditions for the successful prosecution of its -business, issue new
stock, and put it upon the market, and sell it for the best price that can
be obtained :.and in such case no such trust in favor of a creditor arises
against the purchaser who, in good faith,.buys for less than par.
VrOL. exxxrx-27

