LOGAN COUNTY BASK v. TOWNSEND.
Syllabus.

upon another trial the case may be presented in a different
aspect.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded, with directions to
set aside the verdict and to order a new trial.
MvR. JUSTICE

BRowN, not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

LOGAN COUNTY NATIONAL BANK v. TOWNSEND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 170.

Submitted January 22, 1891.-

Decided March 2, 1891.

T. sold to a national bank, for sixty-eight cents on the dollar, $12,800.of the
bonds of a municipal corporation issued in aid of a railroad under an
.agreement that the bank would, upon demand, replace them to him at
the same or a less price. Subsequently, he demanded compliance with
this agreement, but the bank refused. In an action brought against the
bank in a state court to recover the difference between the amount it
paid for the bonds, and their value at the time they were demanded, the
defence in part was that the bank had no authority, under its charter and
the national banking act, to make the alleged agreement and purchase,
and, by reason of such want of authority, could not be held liable to the
plaintiff in any amount or upon any ground whatever. This defence
was overruled in the state courts of original and appellate jurisdiction.
Held,
(1) That this court had jurisdiction to review the judgment, so far as it
involved the question whether the bank was exempted by the act
of Congress or by its charter, from liability to account to the
plaintiff for the value of the bonds vwhich the jury found were
purchased by it from the plaintiff, to be returned to him on demand at the same or a less price;
(2) The national banking act is an enabling act for associations organized under it, and one cannot rightfully exercise any powers exc,.r
those expressly granted, or such incidental powers as are necessary
to carry on the business for which it was established;
(3) But that act does not give a national bank an absolute right to retain
bonds coming into its possession, by purchase, under a contract
which it was without legal authority to make. Although the bank
is not bound to surrender possession of them, until reimbursed the
full amount due to it, and may hold. them as security for the return

OCTOBER TERTI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
of the consideration paid, yet when such amount is returned, or
tendered'back to it and the return of the bonds demanded, its
authority to retain them no longer exists; and, from the time of
such demand and its refusal to surrender the bonds to the vendor
or owner, it becomes lialle for their value upon grounds of implied contract, apart from the original agreement under which it
obtained them. It could not rightfully hold them under or by
virtue of the contract, and at the same time refuse to comply with
the terms of purchase.

THE federal question is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Wilbur. F. Browder for plaintiff in error.
frb. John. Feland for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLw delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings up f6r review a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky, affirming a judgment of the
Circuit Court for Logan County, in that Commonwealth, in
favor of the defendant in error against the Logan County
National Bank, a banking association organized under the act
of Congress.
The petition states- that in June, 1879, the. plaintiff Townsend sold to the bank, through Hugh Barclay, Jr., its cashier,
$12,800 of the bonds of Logan. County, Kentucky, issued in aid
of the Owensboro and Russellville Railroad, with six months'
interest accrued thereon, for the consideration of sixty-eight
and one-half cents on the dollar, and of the promise and agreement of the bank that it 'would, upon plaintiff's demand, re,
place the bonds to him, at the same price, or less; that, relying
upon such promise and agreement, he made the sale to the
bank, and it refused to comply with its promise and agreement, although requested to do so. It also alleges that, at
the commencement of the action, as well as at the time of
plaintiff's demand, the bonds were worth, dollar for dollar,
par and accrued interest; and that by reason of the refusal
of'the bank to comply'with its promise and agreement the
plaintiff has sustained damages in the sum of $4032, the
difference between the price paid by it for the bonds and

LOGAN COUNTY BANK. v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

their par value, and $384, the amount of six months' accrued
interest. The prayer of the petition is for a judgment for
damages in the sum of $4416, and costs, and all proper relief.
The defendant filed a general demurrer as well as an answer to the petition. The answer contains five paragraphs.
In the first paragraph, it denies that the plaintiff at any time
sold to it $12,800 or any other amount of the bonds of Logan
County; in the second, that it ever promised or agreed with
the plaintiff that it would replace any bonds sold by him, at
any price, on demand or at any time; and in the third, that
he ever sold the bonds to its cashier for and on its account.
It avers in the fourth paragraph that, in June, 1879, and before
and after, Barclay was engaged on his own account in an
effort to depress the value of the bonds, and to that end
endeavored to induce the Logan County court, composed of
the county judge and justices of the peace, to refuse to levy a
tax to pay interest on them; that the plaintiff then and there
owned the bonds in question; that he and Barclay, in furtherance of their personal ends, conspired to prevent a levy, agreeing that plaintiff should use his personal influence with one of
the justices to prevent him from ruling in favor of one, and
should allow Barclay to sell the bonds, with bonds owned and
controlled by him, at a price determined on; that Barclay
was to guarantee, and did guarantee, that, as a result of such
sale, the value of the bonds of the county would be reduced,
so that the plaintiff could buy the same amount at a price less
-than that at which Barclay was to sell the plaintiff's bonds;
that said bonds were reduced in value, by or after their sale,
far below the agreed price, so that plaintiff could at any
time during the succeeding month .have purchased the same
amount it much less than he received for those sold for him
by Barclay; that Barclay deposited the proceeds of the bonds
in the defendant's bank to the plaintiff's credit, and the entire
amount thereof was paid out on the plaintiff's checks; and
that defendant was in no way connected with the transaction,
otherwise than that, Barclay having deposited such proceeds
in the bank, it paid them to the plaintiff. It is avefred in the fifth paragraph of the answer that

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Barclay had no authority, right or power to make for or on
account of defendant the contract set out in the petition;
that defendant had itself no right, power or authority to
make it; and that it was a mere gambling transaction, a mere
dealing in and betting upon the future value of the bonds, and
unauthorized by the defendant's charter or by law.
The general demurrer to the petition was overruled. The
plaintiff filed a demurrer to the fourth and fifth paragraphs
of the answer, which was overruled as to the former and sustained as to the latter.
The plaintiff filed a reply to the third and -fourth paragraphs of the answer, denying all the allegations of each, and
charged that Barclay was engaged in June, 1879, and after
that time, in an effort to depress the value of bonds, not on
his own account, but as cashier and director of the bank, with
its knowledge and consent, the bank endeavoring to enrich
itself by depressing the value of the bonds of the county. To
this reply the bank filed a rejoinder.
The jury returned a general verdict for the plaintiff, and
also made a special finding in answer to specific questions.
In response to the question, "Did Townsend sell the bonds
to the defendant bank or to Hugh Barclay, Jr.," the jury
answered, "To defendant bank;" and to the question "What
was the contract made at date of sale," the answer was, "That
defendant would replace the bonds to plaintiff at the price
paid -t that time or less."
Among other instructions given to the jury for the plaintiff
was the following: "The court instructs the jury that if they
believe from a preponderance of the proof that the plaintiff
Townsend sold to the defendant, the Logan County National
Bank, 'the bonds mentioned in the petition, and the defendant
agreed and promised on demand to return the bonds to the
plaintiff at the price paid, or less, and upon demand refused
to do so, they must find for the plaintiff the difference between the price paid and the value of the bonds at the time
the demand was made." The court refused to give the following instruction asked by the bank: "That the defendant is
a national banking association, capable of exercising only such

LOGAN COUNTY BANK v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

powers as are expressly or impliedly conferred upon it by its
act of incorporation, and that the power to buy and sell
municipal bonds for purposes of speculation, or to engage iu
the purchase or sale of such securities for the purpose of manipulating or controlling their market value, is not conferrel
upon the defendant bank by the provisions of its charter;
and that if the jury believe from the evidence that the cashier
Barclay paid Townsend the full market value for his bonds,
and bought them for the sole purpose of enabling him or the
bank to manipulate or control the price of said bonds in the
market for speculative purposes, they must find for the defendant, provided that they shall believe that the plaintiff at
the time knew that the. bonds were to be used for such purposes." Other instructions were given and refused, but none
of them distinctly involved the question of the liability of the
defendant to the plaintiff under its charter and the act of
Congress relating to national banking institutions.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky thus disposed of that
question: "The last ground is that the contract is ultra vires
the corporate authority of the bank, in direct violation of
its charter, and, consequently, is not such an obligation as
will charge the bank or make it to any extent, either in law
or conscience, liable in damages or otherwise for breach of
the conditions. It seems to us that if the proposition be conceded it would not avail appellant, for if it had no authority
under its charter to purchase the bonds it cannot, in justice
and conscience, refuse to abide by the judgment in this case,
which involves nothing more than the return of the bonds
and receipt of what it paid for them. To do less cannot be
justified without permitting it to profit by its own wrong
in violating the law of Congress under which it exists.
Probably according to a fair construction of the national
bank act, the power is not expressly given to appellant to
purchase and deal in bonds, of the character in question; but
neither is it expressly prohibited by the act to do so, and
there is a proper and well recognized difference between ' the
case of an engagement made by a corporation 'to do an act
expressly prohibited by its charter or some other law and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

case where legislative power to do the act has not been
granted.' See Jitchcoc v. Galveston, 96 'U. S. 34:1, and
numerous authorities there cited. In that case the following
from the State Boar of Agriculture v. The Citizens' Street
Railway Co., 47 Indiana, 407, was quoted with approval:
'Although there may be a defect of power in a corporation
to make a contract, yet if a contract made by it is not in
violation of its charter or of any statute prohibiting it, and the
corporation has by its promise induced a party relying on the
promise, and in execution of the contract, to expend money
and perform his part thereof, the corporation is liable on the
contract.' If the special findings of the jury in this case be
taken as true, there needs no argument to show that the rule
thus laid down applies to the contract we are considering, and
to adopt the opposite of that rule would invite a disregard of
the provisions of the national bank' act, as well as fraud and
bad faith towards those dealing with a corporation existing
under it."

Upon the question raised by the defendant in error as to
the jurisdiction of this court, it is sufficient to say that the
fifth paragraph of the answer, to which a demurrer was sustained, and one of the defendant's requests for instructions,
which was refused, proceeded alike upon the ground that the
bank was forbidden by the national banking act to make the
contract or agreement set out in the petition, and, consequently, that it was exempted from liability to the plaintiff
upon.any ground whatever. The exemption or immunity
thus specially set up in the court of original jurisdiction, and
reasserted -in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, having been
denied by the judgment, the authority of this court to reexamine that judgment, so far as it determines that no such
exemption or immunity as that claimed by the bank, under
the act of Congress, exists, is 'entirely clear. That the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky may have held 'the bank liable independently of the question whether the act of Congress forbade or did not forbid a national bank from making such a
contract as the petition recites, does not show a want of jurisdiction in'this court ; for the defendant's contention was, and

LOGAN COUNTY BANK v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

is, that consistently with the act of Congress it cannot be held
liable to the plaintiff upon any ground. So that the judgment necessarily determined, adversely to the bank, that it
had no such exemption or immunity as it asserts in virtue of
the national banking act. It is not a case -if the bank be
right in its contention-in which the judgment can rest upon
some ground of general law, adverted to by the state court,
and sufficiently broad to support it without reference to the
act of Congress as interpreted by the bank. We must, therefore, inquire whether the act of Congress protects the bank
from liability to the plaintiff in any aspect in which his claim
may be regarded.
Whether the agreement set out in the petition for the sale
of the plaintiff's bonds was made by the cashier of the bank
upon his individual account, orfor the bank, is not a question
before us. That was conclusively determined by the finding
of the jury. We have no authority to review the finding upon
that point, and must assume, in conformity with the finding,
that the bonds were sold by Townsend to the bank, at a given
price, and that the bank agreed to replace them to him at the
same or a less price, upon demand.
It is undoubtedly true, as contended by the defendant, that
the national banking act is an enabling act for all associations
oTganized under it, and that a national bank cannot rightfully
exercise any powers except those expressly granted by that
act, or.such incidental powers as are necessary to carry on the
business of banking for which it was established. Tb- statute
declares that a national banking institution shall have power
"to exercise, by its board of directors, or duly authorized
officers or agents, subject tolaw, all such incidental powers as
shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking; by discounting and negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of
exchange and other evidences of debt; by receiving deposits;
by buying and selling exchange, coin and bullion; by loaning
money on personal security; and 6y obtaining, issuing and
circulating notes according to the provisions" of Title 62 of
the Revised Statutes.
Now, the contention of the bank is that The purchase of the.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds in question, at a named price, under an agreement to
replace them to the plaintiff at the same or a less price, upon
the demand of the plaintiff,/was not banking business in any
proper or legitimate sense; certainly not of the kind it was
authorized by the statute to conduct. In the view we take of
this case, it is unnecessary to determine that question, or to
discuss the authorities cited to show that such a contract as
the one set out in the petition is not embraced by any of the
clauses of the statute specifying the different modes by which
a national bank may carry on the business of banking. If it
be assumed, in accordance with the bank's contention, that it
was without power to purchase these bonds, to be Ireplaced
to the plaintiff, on demand, the question would still remain,
whether, notwithstanding the act of Congress defihing and
limiting its powers, it was exempt from liability to the plaintiff for the value of the bonds, if it refused, upon demand, to
replace or surrender them at the same or a less price.
It would seem, upon defendant's theory of its powers, to be
too clear' to admit of dispute that the act of Congress does
not give ,a national bank an- absolute right to retain bonds
coming into its possession, by purchase, under a contract which
it was without authority to make. True, it is not, under a
duty to surrender possession until reimbursed the full amount
due to it; it has the right to hold the bonds as security fpr the
return of the consideration paid for them; but when such
amount is returned, or tendered back to it, and the surrender
of the bonds, is demanded, its authority to retain them no
longer exists. And from the time of such demand and its
refusal to return the bondsto the vendor or owner, it becomes
liable for. their value upon grounds apart from the contract
under which it obtained them. It could not rightfully hold
them under or by virtue of the contract, and at the same time
refuse to comply with the terms of purchase. If the bank's
want of iiower, under the statute, to make such a contract of
purchase may be pleaded in bar of all claims against it based
upon the contract - and we are assuming, for the purposes of
this case, that it may be -it is bound, upon demand, accompanied by atender back of the price it paid, to surrender the

LOGAN COUNTY BANK v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds to its vendor. The bank, in this case, insisting that it
obtained the bonds of the plaintiff in violation of the act of
Congress, is bound, upon being made whole, to return them to
him. No exemption or immunity from this principle of right
and duty is given by the national banking act. "The obligation to do justice," this court said in -Marshv. Fulton County,
10 Wall. 676, 684, "rests upon all persons, natural and artificial, and if a county obtains the money or property of others
without authority, the law, independently of any statute, will
compel restitution or compensation." "This," it was further
said, "is a very different thing from enforcing an obligation
attempted to be created in one way, when the statute declares
that it shall only be created in another and different way."
Upon this obligation to do justice rests the decision in Louisiana v. Wood, 102 U. S. 294, 298, 299, where this court held a
municipal corporation liable to an action for money received
on.bonds issued by it, and which, being issued without authority of law, were invalid. The money it got was paid to it in
the belief that the bonds were valid obligations of the corporation, and, therefore, was paid by mistake. After citing
.Ifoses v. .acferlan, 2 Burrow, 1005, in which it was said that
an action lies for m6ney paid by mistake, or upori a consideration which happens to fail, or for money got through imposition, and also, .Mrsk v. Fulton County, the court, speaking
by Chief Justice Waite, said that the law implied from what
was done, a contract "that the city would, on demand, return
the money paid to it by mistake, and, as the money was got
under a form of obligation which was apparently good, that
interest should be paid at the legal rate from the time the
obligation was denied."
So, in Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487, 503, involving
the liability of a municipal corporation upon bonds issued in
its name and secured by deed of trust given by the person to
whom they were loaned, and which bonds were held to be
void for want of authority to execute them -the court said:
"But, notwithstanding the invalidity of the bonds and of the
trust, the O'Briens had a right'to reclaim the property and to
call on the city to account for it. The enforcement of such

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

right is not in affirmance of the illegal contract, but is in disaffirmance of it, and seehs to prevent the city from retaining
the benefit which it has derived from the unlawful act. 2 Corn.
Cont. 109. There was no illegality in the mere putting of the
property by the O'Briens in the hands of the city. To deny
a remedy to reclaim it is to give effect to the illegal contract.
The illegality of the contract does not arise from any moral
turpitude. The property was transferred under a contract
which was merely malum prohibitum, and where the city was
the principal offender. In such a case the party receiving may
be: made to refund to the person from whom it has received
the property for the unauthorized purpose, the value of that
which it has actually received," citing White v. Franlclin
Bank, 22 Pick. 181; 3forville v. American Tract Society, 123
Iass. 129, and .Davis v. Old Colony Railroad,131 Mass. 258,
275. See also 1Jitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 341, 351;
Chapman v. County of Douglas, 107 U. S. 348, 356, 357; Salt
Lake City v. H.ollister, 118 U. S. 256, 263; Clark v. Saline
County, 9 iNebraska, 516; .Pimentalv. San F7rancisco,21 California, 351,362.
We have said that the bank could hold the bonds, even if
obtained by it without authority of law,:as security for the
money advanced to the plaintiff for them. This is only an
application of the principle announced by this court in several
cses involving the validity of transactions by national banks.
In,NAational Bhsnk v. 3fatthews, 98 U. S.621, it appeared that
a national bank loaned money upon thesecurity of a note and
a deed of trust of lands, both of which were assigned to it.
The statute declared that a national banking association could
loan money "on personal security," and could purchase, hold
and convey real estate for certain named purposes, "and for
no others," among which was not included the securing of a
present loan of money by a deed of trust or mortgage on real
property. The court, while assuming that the statute, by
clear implication, forbade the bank from making a loan on
real estate, refused to restrain the bank from enforcing the
deed of trust. The .decision went upon these grounds: That
the bank parted with its money in good faith; that the ques-

LOGAN COUNTY BANK v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

tion as to the violation of its charter, by taking title to real
estate for purposes unauthorized by law, could be raised only
by the government in a direct proceeding for that purpose;
and that it was not open to the plaintiff in that suit, who had
contracted with the bank, to raise any such question in order
to defeat the collection of the amount loaned. If any doubtexisted as to the scope of the decision in that case, it was removed by lNational Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99, where it
was held that the right of a national bank to enforce a mortgage of real estate taken by it to secure indebtedness then
existing, as well as future advances, could not be questioned by
the debtor, and that a disregard by the bank of the provisions
of the act of Congress upon that subject only laid the association open to proceedings by the government for exercising
powers not conferred by law.
The bank having then the right to hold the bonds until
reimbursed for its advances, but being bound, upon implied
contract, to return them, on demand, when repudiating as
illegal the agreement under which it got them, the next in-.
quiry is as to the amount for which it may be held liable upon
its refusing to surrender them to the plaintiff. In considering
this questiofi we assume that the bank had the bonds in its
possession as well when this action was brought as when it
declined to comply with the plaintiff's demand for the contract. It is neither alleged nor proved that it had disposed of
the bonds prior to such demand. The jury found that it purchased the bonds, and, the contrary not appearing, the presumption was that it held them even at the commencement of
the action. The amount found in plaintiff's favor was the
difference between the price paid by the bank and the value
of the bonds at the time the plaintiff demanded compliance
upon its part with the alleged contract. The result is substantially the same as if the plaintiff had tendered back the
amount received from the bank and demanded a return of the
bonds or their value; in which case it would have been liable
for the value of the bonds, at least, at the time of the demand.
It is unnecessary 'to discuss the conflicting decisions as to
the general rule defining the proper measure of damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

where personal property is wrongfully detained. If the proof
showed that the bonds were of greater value at or before the
time of trial than at the time of the demand for their return,
a different question would be presented. Galigher v. Jones,
129 U. S. 193, 201. In this case it appears that there was no
difference in their value at those respective dates. The bank,
if liable at all, is certainly liable, in this case, for the value of
the bonds at the time it refused, iipon demand, to restore them.
It was not in default, under the alleged contract, until the
plaintiff's demand for its performance; for until then its possession of the bonds was with his consent. Until demand, the
plaintiff had not manifested his will to have them restored to
him. The conversion occurred when the defendant repudiated
all obligation to perform the contract or denied that any such
contract was ever made,'and yet held on to the bonds as its
property. We say held on to them, because the jury has found,
and we must take it to be true, that the bank, and not Barclay
on his individual account, purchased them.
Our conclusion upon the whole case, so far as the questions
arising in it may be reviewed by this court, is, that if the bank
had no authprity to purchase the bonds in question, it is yet
not exempt, by reason of anything in the national banking
act, from liability to the plaintiff for the difference between
the price it paid for them and their value at the time it refused,
upon plaintiff's demand, to comply with the contract made by
it for their purdhase and held on to the bonds.

Judgment qfflrmed.

