OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

BROWN CHEMIOAL COMPANY v. MEYER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

STATES FOR

No. 226. Argued March 18, 1891.-Decided April 6,1891.
Words which are merely descriptive of the character, qualities or composition of an article, or of the place where it is manufactured or produced,
cannot be monopolized as a trade mark.
An ordinary surname cannot be appropriated as a trade mark .by any one person as against others of the same name, who are using it for a'legitimate
purpose; although cases are not wanting of injunctions issued to restrain
the use even of one's own name, where a fraud upon another is manifestly
intended, or where he has assigned or parted with his right to use it.
The owner of a trade mark, bearing his own name, which is affixed to articles
manufactured at a particular establishment, may, in selling the latter, confer upon the purchaser exclusive authority to use the trade mark.

THIS was a suit in equity instituted by the Brown Chemical
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Marylahd,
against the firm of Meyer Brothers and Co., of St. Louis, in
the State of Missouri, to restrain an unfair competition in trade.
The bill averred, in substance, that plaintiff had been engaged
in the preparation of a certain medicine, which had acquired a
high reputation as a remedy for the prevention and cure of
many diseases; that in 1879 it devised and used a certain label,
consisting of four sides or panels, the front one of which bore
the representation of a lion's head, above which was printed
the word "Brown's ;" in the mouth of the lion was suspended
a rod or bar, having dependent therefrom a banner or streamer,
bearing the words "Iron Bitters," printed in large, conspicuous
letters, and separated by a circular design occupying the central field of the banner. The three remaining panels had also
printed thereon the words "Brown's Iron Bitters," in various
places,.and arranged as shown in the label; that since plaintiff acquired its right in The premises the defendants. fraudulently offered and sold medicine put up in bottles, to which
labels were attached, containing the words "Brown's Iron

BROWN CHEMICAL CO. v. MEYER.
Statement of the Case.

Tonic," which were intended to indicate that the medicine
contained in said bottles was that prepared by the plaintiff,
which said preparation the defendants had fraudulently caused
to be offered and sold as and for plaintiff's preparation; and
that large quantities of "Brown's Iron Tonic" had been sold
as and for plaintiff's "Brown's Iron Bitters," and frequently
mistaken therefor.
The answer admitted most of the allegations of the bill so
far as they related to the preparation and sale of Brown's Iron
Bitters, denied any fraudulent intent with respect to defendants' own label, and averred that in the summer of 1881 one
E. L. Brown, in connection with one 0. J. Lincoln, commenced
putting up and selling Brown's Iron Tonic at Little Rock,
Arkansas, as a wholly distinct preparation from Brown's Iron
Bitters, and with no intention or purpose of imitating plaintiff's preparation, which at that time had not been advertised
or sold to any great extent; that subsequently Brown sold out
his interest in said preparation to Lincoln, who has since that
time been putting up said medicine and offering it to the public in cartons and bottles wholly different in size, color and
appearance from plaintiff's bottles, and with labels attached to
the bottles wholly different in size, color, appearance and details from plaintiff's labels, and enclosed in wrappers very different from the cartons of Brown's Iron Bitters, so that the
public could not be misled or the plaintiff injured.
The case as made by the respective parties did not differ
materially from their pleadings.
In explanation of the manner in which defendants' preparation originated, Brown swore that from August, 1869, to May
1, 1881, he was travelling salesman for a Louisville wholesale
drug house, and during that time travelled extensively in the
Southwest, and became generally known to the trade. In
May, 1881, he formed a partnership with 0. J. Lincoln, of
Little Rock, which was dissolved in December, 1883. The
firm name was part of the time 0. J. Lincoln, and part-of the
time Lincoln & Brown. Brown did not personally go to Little
Rock until December, 1881, when, following out a preconceived
notion, be instructed the chemist of the firm to prepare a for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

mula, and they devised a label and began to advertise the
preparation through the newspapers and travelling salesmen.
They sold some at retail in 1881, of which no record Was kept.
In the spring of 1882 they began to make salesto the trade.
It does not appear that they knew of Brown's Iron Bitters, or
that they had seen it until after they had determined upon
their own remedy and its label. The opinion of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill is reported in 31 Fed. Rep. 453.
.Mr. Rowland Cox for appellant.
XP. J. _. .2-oeighan for appellees.
MR. JUSTIcE

BzO-N

delivered the opinion of the court.

The general proposition is well established that words
which are merely descriptive of the character, qualities or
composition of an article, or of the place where it is manufactured or produced, cannot be monopolized as a trade mark;
Canal Company v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311; fanufacturing Company v. Trainer,101 U. S. 51; Caswell v. Davis, 35 N. Y.
281; Thomson v. Winchester,19 Pick. 214; Jaggettv. .Findlater,
L. 1. 17 Eq. 29 ; and we think the words "Iron Bitters" are
so far indicative of the ingredients, characteristics and purposes of the plaintiff's preparation as to fall within the scope
of these decisions. It is hardly necessary to say that an ordinary surname cannot be appropriated as a trade mark by any
one person as against others of the same name, who are using
it for a legitimate purpose; although cases are not wanting of
injunctions issued to restrain the use even of one's own name
where a fraud upon another is manifestly intended, or where
he has assigned or parted with his right to use it. X]fcean v.
-Fleming,96 U. S. 245; Goodyear Company v. Goodyear Rubber Oornany, 128 U. S. 598; Russian Cement Co. v. .LPage,
147 Mass. 206; Hfoxie v. Ckaey, 143 M,ass. 592. The distinction between the lawful^ and the unlawful use of one's own
name is illustrated in the case of Croft v. Day, 7 IBeavan, 84,
in which the successor of Day and Martin, originators of, the

BROWN CHEMICAL CO. v. MEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

famous blacking, filed a bill to enjoin the defendant Day, a
nephew of the elder Day, who had commenced business as a
blacking maker, and was using a label of the same color and
size, with the letters arranged precisely the same and with the
same name, " Day and Martin," on the boxes. The defendant
was enjoined, the court placing its decision, not upon any
peculiar or exclusive right that the plaintiff had ,to use the
name of Day and Martin, but upon the fact of -the defendant
using the names with certain circumstances, and in a manner
calculated to mislead the public. The court observed: "lie
(the defendant) has a right to carry on the business of a blacking manufacturer honestly and fairly; he has a right to the
use of his own name; I will not do anything to deprive him
of that or any other name calculated to benefit himself in an
honegt way; but I must prevent him from using it in such a
way as to deceive and defraud the public." In HUolloway v.
Eolloway, 13 Beavan, 209, Thomas Holloway had for many
years made and sold pills and ointments under the label "Holloway's Pills and Ointments." His brother Henry Holloway
subsequently manufactured pills and ointments with the same
designation. The pill-boxes and pots (of ointment) of the latter were similar in form to, and were proven to have been
copied from, those of the former. The Master of the Rolls
in granting the injunction said: "The defendant's name being
Holloway, he has a right to constitute himself a vendor of
Holloway's pills and ointments, and I do not intend to say anything tending to abridge any such right. But he has no right
to do so with such additions to his own name as to deceive the
public, and make them believe that he is selling the plaintiff's
pills and ointments. The evidence i~n this case clearly proves
that pills and ointments have been sold by the defendant,
marked in such a manner that persons have purchased them of
the defendant, believing that they were buying goods of the
plaintiff." The principle of this case was approved by this court
in the case of X,ctean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 215, in which a
person was enjoined from using his own name in connection
with certain pills, upon the ground that they were put up in
such form that purchasers exercising ordinary caution were

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

likelyto be misled into buying the article as that of the plaintiff. These oases obviously apply only where the defendant
adds to his own name imitations of the plaintiff's labels, boxes
or packages, and thereby induces the public to believe that his
goods are those of the plaintiff. A'man's name is his own
property, and he has the same tight to its use and enjoyment
as he has to that of any other species of property. If such
use be a reasonable, honest and fair exercise of such .right, he
is no more liable for the incidental damage be may do a rival
in trade than he would be for injury to his neighbor's property
by the smoke issuing from his chimney, or for the fall of his
neighbor's house by reason of necessary excavations upon his
own land. These and similar instances are cases of darmnum
absgue injuria. In the present case, if the words are not in
themselies a trade mark, they are not made a monopoly by
the addition of the proprietor's name, provided, of course, the
defendant be legally entitled to make use of the same name
as connected -with his preparations.
The theory of a trade mark proper then being untenable,
this case resolves itself into the question whether the defendants have, by means of simulating the name of plaintiff's
preparation, putting up their own medicine in-bottles or packages bearing a close resemblance to those of plaintiff, or by
the use of misleading labels or colors, endeavored to palm off
their goods as those of the plaintiff. The law upon this subject is considered in the recent case of Lawrence .Mfg. Co. v.
Tennessee .Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537. The law does not visit
with its reprobation a fair 6ompetition in trade; its tendency,
is rather to discourage monopolies, except where protected by
statute, and to build "up new enterprises from which the publie is likely to derive a benefit. If one person ean by superior
energy,, by more extensive advertising, by selling a better or
more attractive article, outbid another in popular favor, he
has a perfect right to do so, nor is this' right impaired by an
open declaration of his intention to compete with the other in
the market. In this case, the usual indicia of fraud are lacking. Not only do defendants' bottles, differ in size and shape
from those of the plaintiff, but ,their labels and cartons are

BROWN

CHEMICAL CO. v. MEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

so dissimilar in color, design and detail that no intelligent
person would be likely to purchase either under the impression
that he was purchasing tie other. There are certain resemblances in'the prescriptions and instructions for the use of the
respective preparations, but no greater than would be naturally
expected in two medicinal compounds, the general object of
which is the same. Under such circumstances, a certain similarity in the methods of using and recommending them to
the public is almost unavoidable. While the resemblances in
this case are perhaps too great to be considered the result of
mere accident, the dissimilarities are such as to show an intention to avoid the charge of piracy. The similarities in the
advertising cards or posters are undoubtedly much greater, both being a deep yellow in color, with an arrangement and
shape of letters closely approaching identity, and, if this resemblance had been carried into the labels, we should have
regarded it as strong evidence of a fraudulent intent; but as
it appears from the testimony that the use of these posters
has been discontinued, and further that the defendants in this
case never employed them or put them up, or authorized
others to do so, it is clear that as against these defendants the
court cannot now be properly called upon to enjoin them. If
the bare act of posting these advertising cards were fraudulent, the remedy is against the party who committed -the
wrong. That act does not affect the labels on the bottles,
with which alone the defendants are concerned, and it has
relation only to a mode of advertising, distinct from the medicine as offered to the public by the defendants.
In the published drug list of C. J. Lincoln & Co., the mauiufacturers of defendants' preparation, they advertised both of
these articles, one under the head of "bitters" and the other
under the head of "tonics."
Defendants' testimony shows
that while they have sold but a few gross of Brown's Iron
Tonic, they have been selling the Iron Bitters since October,
1881, in large quantities. The testimony of a number of
druggists doing business at Little Rock indicates that the two
preparations are known to the trade and purchasers as distinct and separate, and that one is never mistaken for the
VOL.cxxxx-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

other. That the plaintiff itself did not consider that Lincoln
& Co. were infringing upon its rights is evident from the correspondence between them in the summer of 1882. From this
correspondence it appbars that Lincoln & Co. were dealing
with the plaintiff, which wrote them under date of August 21,
1882: 1"We notice you are manufacturing a Brown's Iron
Tonic. Is this a new medicine ? If so, are you not trespassing upon our rights, etc.?" To this Lincoln & Co. replied,
saying that they had begun the manufacture of the Iron
Tonic since the admission of Mr. .E. L. Brown into their firm,
in May, 1881, enclosing them a bottle of the preparation, and
assuring them that they had no desire to make money upon
their good reputation, and had never attempted to sell their
tonic as that of the plaintiff. To this the plaintiff replied as
follows:
"BALTIMORE, MD., August 28, 1882.
"Messrs. C. J. LixcoLN & Co.,
Little Rock, Ark.
"GrNTLEmEN : Enclosing your invoice, thank you for your
kind and satisfactory letter. We wish the Brown's Iron
Tonic a success, as, upon examination, we cannot see where
it conflicts with us except in the multiplicity of the Brown
Your friends,
family.
"BROWN CHEMICAL CoM.A.PY."

Indeed, the controversy between these parties seems to have
arisen some months afterward, through a trade circular issued
by Lincoln & Co., in the autumn of 1882, in which they called.
attention to the distinction between the bitters and the tonic
as rival remedies, and offered the latter at a lower price, at,the
same time recommending it as a superior remedy. While of
course the plaintiff is not estopped by this letter to claim an.
infringement of its rights, it tends very strongly to show
that the persons who were most actively interested in putting
an end to this alleged fraud were satisfied in their own minds
that no fraud* was intended. The testimony is particularly
cogent in view of the fact that suit was not begun until nearly
four years after the letter was written.

BROWN CHEMICAL CO. v. MEYER.
Opinion' of the Court.

The right of the plaintiff to maintain this bill then must
rest upon the assumption that the words "Brown's Iron
Tonic" bear such a resemblance in sound and appearance to
the words" "Brown's Iron Bitters." that the public are liable
to be misled.- But if the words "Iron Bitters" cannot bt
lawfully appropriated as a trade mark, it is difficult to see upon
what theory a person making use of these or similar words
can be enjoined. We understand it to be conceded that these
words do not in themselves constitute a trade mark; it follows then that another person has the right to use them, unless
he uses them in such connection with other words or devices
as to operate as a deception upon the public. If the defendants be liable at all, then it must be by the addition of the
patronymic "Brown" to the words "Iron Tonic." But the
evidence shows that the preparation was originally compounded
by a person of that name of whom the present manufacturers
are the.successors in business, and, in the absence of testimony
tending to show an intention to palm off their preparation as
that of the plaintiff, they have a right to such use.
It is claimed, however, that, even conceding Brown's right
to use his own name as connected with the manufacture of
the Iron Tonic, he could not transfer such right to a person of
different name, and thereby authorize the latter to make use
of it. Whatever may have been the respective rights of Brown
and Lincoln to this name, the plaintiff does not stand in a
position to question the right of Brown to transfer his interest
-in the business, and to include in such transfer the right to
the use of his name in connection with the preparation of the
tonic, as part of the good will of the business. In the case
of idld v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 617, 620, it was held that the
owner of a trade mar which is affixed to articles manufactured at his establishment may, in selling the latter, lawfully
transfer to the purchaser the right to use the trade mark, and, in
delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Field observed:
"But when the trade mark is affixed to articles manufactured
at a particular establishment, and acquires a special reputation
in connection with the place of manufacture, and that establishment is transferred, either by contract or operation of law

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Petitioners.

to others, the right to the use of the trade mark may be lawfully transferred with it. Its subsequent use by the person
to whom the establishment is transferred, is considered as
only indicaling that the goods to which it is affixed are manufactured at' the same place and are of the same character as
those to which the mark was attached by its origifal designer."
Sb in 3fenendez v. Ilolt, 128 U. S. 514, it was held that
when a partner retires from a firm, assenting to, or acquiescing in the retention by the other partners of the old place of
business, and the future conduct of the business by them under
the old name, the good will remains with the latter, as of
course, and that, under such circumstances' the right to use a
trade mark passes to the remaining partners as a part of such
good will. There are a few cases indicating that the mere
right to use a; name is not assignable, notably Chadwick- v.
Covell, 151 Mass. 190, but none that it may not be assigned
to an outgoing partner or to a successor in business as an incident to its good will. Ainswortk v. IFalmesley, L. R. 1 Eq.
518; Der'ingerv. Plate,29 California, 292.
There was no error in the decree of the court below, and it
is therefore
_______Affirmed.

In 'e INGALLS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number.

Submitted March 16, 1891.-Decided March 23, 1891.

No application to this court for a writ of error will be entertained, except
when a Justice of this Court, upon consideration of the record, has
deemed it proper, under special circumstances, to endorse thereon a
request that counsel be permitted to proceed in that way.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
_Mr. de Lagnel Borier for petitioners submitted on his brief.
-Y'.Edward D. .AVoCarthy also filed a brief for petitioners.

