OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
1891.

MR.

JUSTICE BLATCHIFORD delivered the opinion of the

court. This suit is founded upon the same reissue, No. 9743, con-sidered in No. 232, Electric Gas-Lighting Co. v. Boston Electric Co.,
just decided. The case was heard by Judge Wheeler, who dis,missed the bill, holding that claims 2 and 5 of the reissue were
invalid. 21 Fed. Rep. 568. It having been stipulated that, if
the decree in No. 232 is affirmiled, the decree in No. 235 shall be
affirmed without costs to the appellee, and the decree in No. 232
having been affirmed, the decree in No. 235 is
A.ffirmed, without costs to the appellee.
Mr. Edward P. Payson and Mr. Edwin H. Brown for appellant.
Mr. John E. Abbott and Mr. John L. S. Roberts for appellee.

In re MANNING, Petitioner.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 1607. Submitted March 17, 1891.-Decided April 6,1891.

A person is not denied the equal protection of the laws, nor deprived
of liberty without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution, by being tried and -sentenced to imprisonment by a judge who, although appointed by the governor without authority, is a judge de facto of a court ue jure, by the law of the
State as declared by its highest court.

Tmi case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. ]?ublee A. Cole and

r... TF iF O'K eefe for petitioner.

-No one opposing.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a writ of error to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin, denying to Patrick
Manning a writ of habeas corpus to discharge him front the

M RE M NNIN G.
Opinion of the Court.

custody of the warden of the state prison under a sentence
of the municipal court for Ashland County. '76 Wisconsin,
365. The case was this:
By the statute of Wisconsin of 1889, c. 94, ยง 1, "A municipal court for the city and county of Ashland is hereby
established, under the name of the municipal court fo"
Ashland County," which "shall be a court of record, have a
clerk and a seal," and "may exercise powers and jurisdiction
equal to, and concurreit with, the Circuit Coirt of Ashland
County, in all cases of crimes and misdemeanors arising in
said county, except murder and rape," besides other jurisdiction, criminal and civil.
By ยง 4, "The qualified voters of the county of Ashland
shall, on the first Tuesday in April, 1889, and on the first
Tuesday of April every fourth year thereafter, elect a suitable
person to the office of judge of said municipal court, to be
called municipal judge, who shall hold his office for the t~rm
of four years from the first Monday in January next succeeding his election, and until his successor shall be elected
and qualified." "Whenever a vacancy shall happen in the
office of said judge, the governor shall fill such vacancy by
appointment. The person so appointed shall hold the office
until his successor shall be elected and qualified."
By ยง 11, "This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage and publication." It was approved by
the governor March 14, and published X arch 15, 1889.
The first election of judge of the municipal court for Ashland County was held on April 2, 1889, when L. A. Calkins
was elected for the term of four years beginning the first
Monday of January, 1890; and on April 4, 1889, the governor appointed him judge of that court "for the term ending
the first Monday of January, 1890."
In that court, held by said Calkins as judge, the petitioner
was in August, 1889, charged with manslaughter, tried and
convicted in October, and sentenced on November 9, 1889,
to imprisonment at hard labor in thd state prison for three
years, and was held by the warden under that sentence.
It was contended in his behalf that, at the time of his trial

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and sentence, there was no such court in existence as the
municipal court for Ashland County; that the governor had
no authority to appoint a judge of that court before the first
Monday of January, 1890; that before that date there was
no judge, de jure or de facto, of that court; that the court
which tried and sentenced him had no jurisdiction; and that
he had been denied the equal protection of the laws, and
deprived of his liberty without due process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, as appears by its opinion
delivered in a similar case decided at the same time, and
referred to in its opinion in this case, denied the writ of kabeas
corpus because, assuming that the governor had no authority
to make, when he did, the appointment of Calkins as judge of
the municipal court for Ashland County, yet that court -was
established and in legal existence from and after the publication of the statute of 1889, c. 94, on March 15, 1889, and by
the law of Wisconsin, as declared in a; long series of decisions,
it was a settled rule that "if the office has been 'lawfully
established, and .a person exercises the functions thereof by
color of right, but whose election or appointment thereto is
illegal, his official acts therein cannot be successfully attacked
in collateral proceedings, but in all such proceedings will be
valid and binding until the. officer is ousted by the judgment
of a court in a direct proceeding to try his title to the office;"
and that Calkins, at the time of the proceedings against the
petitioner, was, "at least, judge defacto of such court." In re
Burke, 76 Wisconsin, 357, 363.
The. cases cited fully support that position. See especially
ITn re Boyle, 9 Wisconsin, 264; -Deanv. Gleason, 16 Wisconsin,
1; 6/kicago & HYorthwestern Railway v. Langdale County, 56
Wisconsin, 614; .orty v. Paine,62 Wisconsin, 154.
It must, therefore, be taken as conclusively settled that by
the law of Wisconsin, at the time of the trial and sentence of
the petitioner, the court "inwhich he was tried and sentenced
was a court de jure, and the judge who tried and sentenced
him was at least judge de facto, and the sentence itself was

DAVIS'S ADMINISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
Syllabus.

valid; and there is no ground on which this court can hold
that sentence, or the imprisonment under it, to be a violation
of the Constitution of the United States. Norton v. Sitlby
County, 118 U. S. 425; In re Graham, 138 U. S. 461; In

re

.Duncan, Potitioner,139 U. S. 449.
Judgment affirmed.

DAVIS'S ADMN=ISTRATOR v. WEIBBOLD.
AIPRA

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
MONTANA.
No. 219. Submitted March 3, 1891.-Decided April 6, 1891.

The provisions of the public town-site laws prohibiting acquisition of title
thereunder to mines of the precious metals, and protecting therefrom
possessory claims under the mining laws, must be construed in accord
with the uniform exception in Federal legislation of mineral lands from
grant or sale, and held merely to prohibit passage of title thereunder to
mines of gold, silver, cinnabar or copper which are known to exist on the
issue of the town-site patent, and to mining claims and possessions then
lawfully existing. Such exceptions include only those lands which at
the date of the grant are of known sufficient mineral value and extent
to justify expenditures for the extraction of the mineral.
Town-site patent of earlier date covering same premises embraced in junior
mining patent carries the title in absence of proof establishing the known
existence of the mine at date of such town-site patent. The claimant
under the town-site patent may offer evidence to prove that the premises
were not known to be valuable for minerals at date thereof to .rebut the
presumption contra indulged, without proof, solely from the fact of issue
of such mineral patent.
Exception from the mineral patent of town-site occupancy and improvements, within recited limitations, is unimportant. A mineral patent carries with it all rights which the law confers, and officers of the Land
Department cannot enlarge or diminish those Tights by any reservation
beyond or differing from those contained in the law.
The mining laws provide for exploration and purchase of the mineral lands
of the United States, and where prior to town-site patent proceedings
thereunder to acquire title are initiated, th same may be prosecpted to
completion afterwards. But in absence thereof, on issue of town-site
patent and conveyance to individuals thereunder, the premises become
private property, and jurisdiction to grant patents of them under the

