HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Syllabus.

from. It is further decreed that the cause be remanded withI
directions to the Cirmdt Court for the Eastern District of
.Louisiana -to enter a decree in conformity herewith, and to
proceed in accordancewith the opinion of this court herewith

fled.
3.F'JusTxE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BRowN were not
members of the court when this case was argued, and took no

part in th6 decision.

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 1516. Submitted January 12, 1891.-Decided March 30,1891.

The failure to enter a vote of stockholders In a corporation In the corporation records at the time when it was adopted does not affect its
validity.
A resolution of stockholders in a corporation organized under the laws of
Kentucky to increase the capital stock of the corporation, passed at a
meeting held without the limits of that State, is binding upon the members present and voting for it.
An increase by a Kentucky corporation of its capital stock within the
amount authorized by'law is not invalidated by reason of the fact that
no amendment of the charter authorizing such increase was ever recorded
or published as required by the laws of that State.
When a stockholder in a corporation who assents to an increase in the capital stock of the corporation and its gratuitous distribution among the
shareholders, receives such stock as full. paid stock, an obligation arises
to pay for it in full, when called upon to do so by creditors whose debts
are subsequent to the authorization of the increase: but this equity does
not exist in favor of a creditor whose debt was contracted prior to such
authorization.
An active corporation, finding its original capital impaired by loss or misfortune, may, for the purpose of recuperating itself, and of producing
new conditions for the successful prosecution of its -business, issue new
stock, and put it upon the market, and sell it for the best price that can
be obtained :.and in such case no such trust in favor of a creditor arises
against the purchaser who, in good faith,.buys for less than par.
VrOL. exxxrx-27

418 .

OCTOBER TERM1,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

Tnis was a bill in equity, filed by Sebastian Stutz, of Pittsburg, Pa., by certain other persons composing the firm of
iRagon Brothers, of Evansville, Indiana, and by others coinposing the firm of Louis Stix & Co., of Cincinnati, Ohio, on
behalf of themselves and such other creditors of the Clifton
Coal Company as should come in and contribute to the expenses of the suit, against the Clifton Coal Company and certain of its stockholders, to compel an assessment upon certain
shares of stock held by the individual defendants, and payment
of the same as a trust fund for the satisfaction of the debts of
the company. The bill averred in substance that the Clifton
Coal Company was incorporated under the laws of the State
of Kentucky, in July, 1883, with power to purchase, lease and
operate coal mines in the State of Kentucky, a copy of the
articles of incorporation being annexed to the bill; that by
said articles the capital stock of such corporation was fixed at
$120,006, divided into shares of $100 each, with power to
increase the same to $200,000, by a majority vote of the stockholders; that all the stock was then taken'and paid for by the
subscribers in some manner agreed upon between them; that,
pursuant to the authority contained in the articles of incorporation, the'stockholders, all of them being present and voting,
"at a meeting duly held*for the purpose in AIay, 1886, unanimously resolved and ordered that the capital stock of said
company be, and in fact it was, then increased to $200,000, in
shares of $100 each, being an increase of 800 shares of stock
of said company;" that of the 800 shares then created, the
defendant iandley subscribed for 86t shares, two of the other
defendants for 15 shares each, and two others for 75 shares
each, certificates of which were issued by the company, and
delivered to, and received by, said subscribers, as they were
respectively entitled; but that neither one of them ever paid
to the company any part of the said shares, and they each,
respectively, owe the said company the full par value of the
shares of the said capital stock subscribed for and issued to
them.
The bill also averred that on December 30, 1886; it having
been previously resolved to issue bonds to the amount of

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Statement of the Case.

$50,000, and to secure the payment thereof by a mortgage
upon its property, and said mortgage having been executed to
trustees and recorded, a contract was executed and delivered
to the company by certain others of the defendants, whose
names were subscribed thereto, in the following terms: "We,
the undersigned, subscribe for the amount set opposite our
names, respectively, to bonds of the Clifton Coal Company,
aggregating $50,000. It is agreed that $50,000 capital stock
be distributed ro r'ata among the subscribers to the above
bonds;" that several of the defendants subscribed to this contract, and agreed -to take bonds in different amounts; that
said subscribers paid the coal company for the bonds, and that
with the money thus received, to the extent of $30,000, the
company paid its debts to certain of its officers and managers,
who had become liable by endorsement for the company, and
that nothing- was or ever had been paid for or upon any of the
shares of capital stock thus subscribed for, and to be distributed among them; that is.to say, $50,000 of said capital stock,
equivalent to 500 shares thereof, was in fact subscribed for
and distributed among certain of the defendants, to whom, in
May, 1887, .there were issued and received by them respectively certificates for shares.
The bill further averred that the plaintiffs were judgment.
creditors of the company, by judgments obtained in the courts
of Kentucky; that their debts were created before all of the
capital stock of said company was paid in; and that all of
*said $80,000 increase of the capital stock, and each and all of
the amounts due to the company for any part of its capital
stock, constituted a trust fund for their benefit, which they
were entitled to have administered in a court of equity to the
satisfaction of their said debts, the company being insolvent.
It further appeared from the testimony that the compahy
was organized soon after its articles of incorporation were
filed; that its chief office was at Tvtannington, Kentucky; and
that it began business at once and made large outlays and
expenditures for machinery, buildings, matei'ials and labor.
In the early part of the year 1886, the. company was led to
believe that its coal would coke, and, therefore, its products

OCTOBER TERM1,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

could be profitably extended from grate and steam purposes to
iron-naking coke. To embark in the manufacture of coke,
however, money was needed, and a meeting of the stockholders was held March 31, 1886, at which a resolution was passed,
reciting that $50,000 was needed with which to erect coke
ovens, buildings, improvements, etc., to further develop th'e
property; and it was unanimously resolved to issue $50,000 of
bonds of the company, in sums of $1000 each, due thirty years
from April 1, with 6 per cent interest, and secured by a trust
mortgage upon the property of the company, and the president was authorized to dispose of such bonds as in his discretion seemed best. The mortgage was executed to the designated trustee and recorded. It was found, however, that the
bonds could not be sold, and to meet the demands upon the
company for money, it borrowed a large amount upon its
notes, endorsed by its directors and stockholders, and to secure
the lenders and endorsers, the $50,000 of bonds were deposited
in two banks in Nashville, Tennessee, as additional collateral
security for the loans. Finding that no one would purchase
the bonds, and being advised that in order to effect their sale
it would be better to add an equal amount of stock to the
bonds, and propose to the purchasers of such -bonds to give as
a gratuity $1000 of stock with each $1000 bond, a meeting of
the stockholders of the company was held at Nashville, May
31; 1886, at which all the stockholders were present in person
or by proxy, although without any call or previous notice, and
"it was unanimously resolved that the capital stock of the
company be increased to $200,000, as authorized bythe charter." This resolution was not then entered upon the records
of the corporation, but was formulated in the shape of a pencil
memorandum, and adopted unanimously, although no vote
appeared to have been taken, and no formal record was made
of the meeting until the summer of 1888. No notice of such
change in the amount of its capital stock was recorded or published, as required by the laws of Kentucky. The subscribers
to the bonds subsequently executed the agreement set forth in
the bill, and bonds to the amount of $45,500 were (lelivered to
the subscribers with equal amounts of certificates of "paid

HAXILEY v. STUTZ.
Counsel for Appellants.

up" stock, the receipts reciting that it "was issued with bonds
for same amount, as per agreement." The certificates on their
face recited that the shares of stock were fully paid up "and
were non-assessable," or language to that effect. Five thousand dollars of the bonds were left in one of the national
banks at Nashville as collateral security for a loan to the
company, no one having subscribed for them. The remaining$30,000 shares of increased stock, which were not needed to
secure the subscribers to the bonds, appeared to have been distributed pro rata among the old stockholders. In the latter
part of '1887, and in the early part of the following year, plaintiffs obtained judgments against the company, which were unsatisfied, and in September, 1887, by an order of the Circuit
Court of Hopkins County, Kentucky, the entire property of
the company was placed'in the hands of a receiver, and its
operations stopped.
On February 8, 1889, this bill was filed against the coal
company and the holders of this increased stock, to compel
payment therefor, and to recover the amounts of the judgments against the company. The court dismissed the bill as
to three of the defendants not served with process, and as to
the rest held them liable to all the creditors of the companv
whose debts originated after the alleged increase of stock, and
fixed Mlay, 1886, as the date of such increase. As to debts
contracted prior to that date, they were excluded because, as
between the company and the stockholders, the latter held
such stock properly, and without liability to the company, and
all creditors who dealt with the company prior to such increase, and not upon the faith of such stock, had no equity to"
demand inore than the company itself could. Five of the
defendants against whom decrees were rendered in excess of
$5000 appealed to this court, and the Circuit Court suspended
the execution of the decree as to those who could not appeal,
until this court should determine the rights of the appellants.
The opinion of the Circuit Court is reportedin 41 Fed. Rep. 531.
i,),. Edward 1B. East and 2&. James Stuart Pilcher for
appellants.

O&OBEr TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Jr'. Walter Evans and .A.
appellees.
MR.

-

JUSTME

James R. JfacFarlane for

BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.

1. Although the resolution of May 31, 1886, increasing the
stock of the company from $120,000 to $200,000, was not formally entered at that- time upon the books of the company,
and nothing but a pencil memorandum was then made of the
proceedings of the meeting, no objection can be taken to its
validity by reason of such omission. The testimony shows
clearly what took place at this meeting. It appears from the
memorandum made by Mr. Allen, the acting secretary, to have
been "unanimously resolved that the capital stock of the company be increased to $200,000 as authorized by the charter,
the purposes for which said stock is issued being the betterment of the present plant, and the construction of a new plant
for coking purposes." This resolution was subsequently, and
in 1888, when the omission to record the same appears to have
been first discovered, formally entered upon the minute book
of the corporation. The failure to enter this resolution at
the time it was adopted did not affect its validity, as most
corporate acts can be proved as well by parol as by written
entries. .Noss v. Averell, 10 N. Y. 449.
2. Nor were the proceedings of such meeting any less binding-upon those participating in it by reason of the fact that it
was held without call or'notice, and outside the boundaries of
the State under the laws of which the company was incorporated. By -an act of the legislature of Kentucky of March 3,
1876, General Statutes, page 769, "all elections for directors
and other officers, by private corporations, etc., shall be held
within the territorial limits of the State of Kentucky. .
Any such elections held e',tside of Kentucky shall be void."
Beyond the election of offi ,ers, however, there is no statutory
restriction of corporate action to the limits of the State, and
in the absence of such inhibition the proceedings of such meeting would, within the rule laid down by this court in Gabvesto i
Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11_ Wall. 459, with regard to directors?

HANNDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

meetings, be binding upon all those participating in it, as well
as upon those acting upon the faith of its validity, or receiving
stock authorized to be issued at such meeting. It is true there
are cases holding that stockholders' meetings cannot be legally
held outside of the home state of the corporation, but the
question has generally arisen where a majority present at such
meeting had attempted by their action to bind a dissenting
minority, or had taken action prejudicial to the rights of third
persons. Ornzsby v. Vermont Coppey .9-ining Co., 56 N. Y.
623; H7illes v. Parfl,.t,141N. J. Eq. (1 McCarter,) 380. Indeed,
so far as we know, the authorities are uniform to the effect
that the action taken at such meetings is binding upon those
who participate in or take the benefit of them. Hleath v. Silverthorn. Lead -Mining Co., 39 Wisconsin, 146. In this case
the meeting was attended by all the stockholders but two,
who were represented by proxy, the vote increasing the stock
was unanimous, and it does not lie in the mouth of those who
participated in this act, or received the stock voted at this
meeting, to question its validity.
3. It is further claimed that this issue of stock was invalid
by reason of the fact that there was no amendment of the
charter authorizing such increase ever recorded or published,
as required by the law of Kentucky. The proceeding for the
organization of incorporated companies is found in chapter 56
of the General Statutes of Kentucky, the fifth section of
which requires a notice to be published for at least four weeks
in some newspaper as convenient as practicable to the principal place of business, specifying several particulars, among
which is the amount of capital stock authorized, and the times
when, and the conditions upon which, it is to be paid in. Section six is as follows: "The corporation may commence business as soon as the articles are filed for record in the office of
the county court clerk, and their acts shall be valid if the publication in a newspaper is made, and the copy filed in the
office of the Secretary of State, 'When such filing is necessary,
within three months from such filing in the clerk's office. No
change in -any of the foregoing particulars shall be valid, unless
rccordcd and published as the ogiii1 artidles are required to

.OOTOBER TERM[, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be; nor shall any change be made at any time or in any manner which would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
act."' Ieliance is placed upon the final clause of this section,
for the position assumed by the defendants, that the increase
in the capital stock never having been recorded or published,
as -required by this clause, was void, and the case of Scovill v.
Thayer, 105 U. S. 143, is cited in support of this contention.
That was also an action to recover unpaid assessments upon
stock. The statutes of Kansas provided that any corporation
might increase its capital stock to any amount, not exceeding
double the amount of its authorized capital. The corporation
in question had increased its capital stock, as it was authorized
to do, by doubling it, and it subsequently increased it by doubling it again, thus quadrupling the original amount, the, defendant in the case having attended by proxy'the meeting at
which such illegal increase was voted, and received a quantity
of the stock thus issued. It was held that such increase was
ultra vires and void, and that the defendant was not estopped
from denying the validity of the over-issue, or his obligation
to pay for it*
In the case under consideration, however, the articles of
incorporation did provide that the capital stock should be
$120,000, with power. to increase to $200,000 by a majority
vote of the stockholders, and there was no statutory inhibition,
* as in Kansas, against any such increase as it might be thought
advisable to make. Here, then, was the power to increase the
capital stock to the precise amount fixed by the stockholders,
at their meeting at Nashville, and the defect was merely in
.the failure to record and publish such change, as required by
section six of the statute inquestion.
It is insisted by the appellees, and the learned judge of the
Circuit Court so held, that the failure to record and publish
this increase of the capital stock, which was in fact, if not in
name, an 'amendment to the original articles, which had fixed
the capital stock at $120,000, was a mere irregularity and informality in the proceedings to effect the increase; such a one,
as was said by this court, in Chubb v. Ujpton, 95 U..S. 665,
667, to constitute no defence to a subscriber.to such increased

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

stock. In that case it appeared only that objection was made
to the proceedings by which the company increased its stock,
on the ground of irregularity and informality in the papers
filed in the public offices; and it was held that one who contracted with an acting corporation, by purchasing stock in the
same, could not defend himself against a claim upon such con-'
tract, in a suit by the corporation, by urging the illegality of
its organization. In 'eeder v. .Mudgett, 95 N. Y. 295, 310,
which was also an action by directors against stockholders of
a corporation to enforce the liability imposed upon them
because of an alleged failure to pay in the full amount of the
capital stock, it appeared that the meeting at which the increased stock was voted was not formally called, nor was a
certificate of the increase of capital made and filed as prescribed by the state statute. The stock was, however, all
issued to stockholders who voted for the increase. These
holders subsequently received dividends thereon, voted at
stockholders' meetings, and in all- respects were treated and
acted as stockholders. The court held the attempted increase
illegal, but that the defendant stockholders, as against the
creditors of the company, by accepting their proportions of
the increased stock, by voting for its increase, by taking dividends upon it, and by holding it out to those dealing with the
company as an actual component of its capital, were estopped
from denying the validity of the increase. It was argued in
that case, as it is in this, that an act absolutely and wholly
void, because incapable of being performed, could not be made
valid by estoppel. But this was held to be true only where
there was an entire lack of power to do the act so brought in
question, and the case of Scovill v. Thayer was. cited. "But
where," says the court, "as in the present case, the abstract
power did exist, and there was a way in which the increase
could lawfully be made, and the creditors could, without fault,
believe that the increase had been lawfully effected, and the
necessary steps had been taken, there the doctrine of estoppel
may apply, and the increased stock be deemed valid as against
the creditbrs who have acted upon the faith of such increase."
It is true that in neither of those cases was the court embar-.

426

OOTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

rassed by a statute declaring that certain conditions must be
observed or- the increase would not be valid. But we think
that the clause of section 6, upon which reliance is placed,
must be read in connection with section 18 of the same act,
which provides that "no persons, acting as a corporation under
the provisions of this act, shall be permitted to set up or rely
upon the want of legal organization as a defence to an action
brought against them as a corporation; nor shall any person
who may be sued on a contract made with such corporation,
or sued for an injury done to its property, or for a wrong done
to its interests, be permitted to rely upon such want of legal
organization in his defence." It is true that this section seems
to apply rather to a want of an original legal organization of
the company; but we think it should be regarded as applying
as well to amendments to such organization, and that no defence connected with the original organization, which a party
contracting with the corporation would be disqualified to set
up, can be made available in connection With an amendment
to the original articles.
So far as the question of liability to the proposed assessments is concerned, these defendants, with respect to their
relations to this corporation, are divisible into two distinct
classes: First, those of the original stockholders who received
the $30,000 increased stock as a gift; second, those who subscribed to the $50,000 bonds, and received an equal amount of
stock, as a bonus or inducement to make the subscription.
4. With regard to the first class, namnely, the original stockholders, who voted for this increase of 800 shares, and then
distributed among themselves 300 of those shares, without the
shadow of right or consideration, it is difficult to see why they
should not be called upon to respond for their value. The
,only claim made upon their .behalf is that they never agreed
to contribute or pay for the same; that the stock was expressly declared to'be "fully paid" and "free from all claims
or demands upon the part of the company;" that there wa's
no evidence thaitthe creditors of the company knew of, or
relied upon, this inasease, in their dealings with the company;
and that they had a right to return and surrender the same,

IIA'NDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

which they offered to do. There is no reason to suppose that
these stockholders did not act in good faith, and in the belief
that they were entitled to this stock. The fact that they did
not subscribe for it or agree to take it until the receipt of the
certificates, is immaterial, as the acceptance of the certificates
is sufficient evidence of an agreement to pay their par value.
Sanger v. .pton, 91 U. S. 56, 64; Chubb v. Upton, 95 U. S.
665; Brightam v. Mead, 10 Allen, 24-5.
Ever since the case of Sawyer v. Roag, 17 Wall. 610, it has
been the settled doctrine of this court that the capital stock of
an insolvent corporation is a trust fund for the payment of its
debts; that the law implies a promise by the original subscribers of stock who did not pay for it in money or other
property to pay for the same when called upon by creditors;
and that a contract between themselves and the corporation,
that the stock shall be treated as fully paid and non-assessable,
or otherwise limiting their liability therefor, is void as against
creditors. The derisions of this court upon this subject have
been frequent and uniform, and no relaxation of the general
principle has been admitted. Upton v. Tribilcock, 91 U. S.
45; Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56; Webster v. Upton, 91 U. S.
65; Cltubb v. Upton, 95 U. S. 665; Pullnan v. Upton, 96
U. S. 328; County of Morgan v. Allen, 103 U. S. 498; Rawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319; Graham v. Railroad Co., 102
U. S. 148, 161; .Richardsonv. Green, 134 U. S. 30.
It is simply in affirmance of this general principle that section 14, chapter 56, of the General Statutes of Kentucky declares that nothing in the act conferring corporate franchises,
or permitting the organization of corporations "shall exempt
the stockholders of any corporation from individual liability
to the amount .of the unpaid instalments on stock owned by
them." If the corporation has no right as against creditors,
to sell or dispose of this stock with an agreement that no further assessment shall be made upon it, much less has it the
right to give it away, or distribute it among shareholders,
without receiving a fair equivalent therefor, and thereby induce the public to deal with itupon the credit of such shares,
as representing the assets of the corporation. Union Xut.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Life Ins. Co. v. ],eai, Stone .Mfg.Co., 97 Illinois, 537. The
stock of a corporation .issupposed to stand in the place of
actual property of substantial value, and as being a convenient
method of representing the interest of each stockholder in
such )roprty,and to the extent to which it fails to represent
such value it is either a deception and fraud upon the public,
or an evidence that the original value of the corporate property has become" depreciated. The market value of such
shares rises with an increase in the value of the corporate
assets, and falls in case of loss or misfortune, whereby the
value of such assets is impaired. And the increase of value of
such stock is taken to represent either an appreciation in value
of the company's property beyond the par value of the original shares. or §o much money paid to the corporation as is
represented by such shares. If it be once admitted that a corporation may issue stock without receiving a consideration
therefor, and where it does not represent actual oe substituted
value in corporate assets, there is apj'prently no limit to the
extent to which the original stock may be "'watered," except
the caprice of the stockholders. While an agreement that the
subscribers or holders of stock shall never be called upon to
pay for the same may be good as against the corporation
.itself, it has been uniformly held by this court not to be binding upon its creditors.
5. Somewhat different considerations apply to those who
subscribed for the bonds of the company, with the understanding that they were to receive an amount of stock equal to the
bonds as an additional inducement to their subscription. The
facts confiected with this transaction are substantially as follows: Some three years after the company was organized it
became apparent that the eifterprise, as originally contemplated .namely, the mining and selling of coal for steam and
domestic
purposes, was not likely to be a success, owing to
the inferior character of the product; and the only hope of
the company lay in the manufacture of the coal into an ironmaking coke, that is,
a coke containing a percentage of sulphur
low enough to admit of the manufacture of merchantable pig
iron. To embark in this, however, money was needed, and as

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

the stock of the company was not worth more than 50 cents
on the dollar, it was evident this could not be effected simply
by the issue of new stock. It was proposed at the meeting in
Mlarch that money should be raised by the issue of $50,000 of
bonds, with which to add the requisite structures to the plant.
But it was soon evident that the bonds could not be negotiated'
without the stock, and, acting upon the suggestion of a N~ashville banker, it was resolved at the meeting in May that the
stock should be increased 800 shares, 500 of which should be
turned over to the subscribers to the bonds, as a bonus or an
additional consideration. The evidence is uncontradicted that
the -bonds could not have been negotiated without the stock;
that they were both sold as a whole; that the transaction was
in good faith, and, considering the risk that was taken by the
subscribers, the price paid for the stock and bonds was fair
and reasonable. The directors appear to have done all in their
power to obtain the best possible terms, and there is no imputation of unfair dealing on the part of any one connected with
the transaction. At that time the mines and property of the
company were in good condition, and the prospects of success
were fair.
The case then resolves itself into the question whether an
active corporation, or as it is called in some cases, a "going
concern," finding its original capital impaired by loss or misfortune, may not, for the purpose of recuperating itself and
providing new conditions for the successful prosecution of its
business, issue new stock, put it upon the market and sell it for
the best price that can be obtained. The question has never
been directly raised before in this court, and we are not, consequently, embarrassed by any previous decisions on the point.
In the Upton Cases, arising out of the failure of the Great
Western Insurance Company; in Hatch v. Dana, 101 IT. S.
205, and in Hawdins v. Glenn, 131 U., S. 319, the defendants
were either original subscribers to the increased stock, at a
price far below its par value, or transferees of such subscribers;
and the stock was issued, not as in this case to purchase property or raise money to add to t6e plant, and facilitate the operations of the company, but simply to increase its original stoc'<

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in order to carry on a larger business, and the stock thus issued
was treated as if it formed a part of the original capital. In
County of llorgan,v. Allh, 103 U. S. 498, the same principle
was applied to a subscription by a county to the capital stock
of a railroad company, for which it had issued its bonds,
although such bonds had been surrendered to the county with
the consent of certain of its creditors.
To say that a corporation may not, under the circumstances
above indicate(], put its stock upon the market and sell it to
the highest bidder, is practically to declare that a cor.poration
can never increase its capital by a sale of shares, if the original
stock has fallen below par. The wholesome doctrine, so many
times enforced by this court, that the capital stock of an insolvent corporation js a trust fund for the payment of its
debts, rests upon the idea that the creditors have a right to
rely upon the fact that the subscribers to such stock have put
into the treasury of the corporation, in some form, the amount
represented by it; but it does not follow that every creditor
has a right to trace each ,shareof stock issued by such corporation, and inquire w-hether its holder, or the person of whom
lie purchased, has paid its par value for it. It frequently happens that corporations, as well as individuals, find it necessary
to increase their capitalin order to raise money to prosecute
their bu"iness successfully, and one of the most frequent
methods resorted to is that of issuing new shares of stock and
putting them upon the market for the best price that can be
obtained; -and so long as the transaction is bona, fde, and not
a mere cover for "watering" the stock, and the consideration
obtained represents the actual value of such stock, the courts
have shown no disposition to disturb it. Of course no one
would take stock so issued at a greater price than the original
stock could be purchased for, and hence the ability to negotiate
the stock and to raise the money must depend upon the fact
whether the purchaser shall or shall not be called upon to
respond for -its par value. While, as before observed, the precise question' has never been raised in this court, there are
numerous decisions to the effect that the general rule that
holders of stock, in favor of creditors, must respond for its par

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

value, is subject to exceptions Where the transaction is not a
mere cover for an illegal increase.
Thus in .1rewAlbany v. Burke, 11 Wrall. 96, a city subscribed to the stock of a railroad, and issued bonds for a part
of the subscription, agreeing to issue them for the rest of it,
when the road should be built to a certain point. The road
relied mainly upon these bonds to raise the necessary money.
The validity of the bonds being denied by taxpayers, who had
filed bills to enjoin the raising of a tax to pay the interest,
their value in the market was largely impaired, and it was
found they could not be sold without a sacrifice. Under these
circumstances the company applied to the city to pay a certain
sum which had been borrowed by the road upon the pledge of
the bonds already issued, with sundry other moneys, and in
consideration thereof the city obtained from the company a
large number of bonds which had not been negotiated, and a
cancellation of the subscription. In a suit brought by a judgment creditor to enforce the original subscription, it was held
that the compromise was legal, and the payment of such subscription would not be enforced, although it subsequently
turned out that the bonds were worth more than they could
have been sold for. Said Mr. Justice Strong, speaking for the
court: "Had the company sold to a stranger, and then the
city become a purchaser from the stranger, it will not be contended that any creditor of the company could complain. And
it can make no difference whether the purchase was made
directly or indirectly from the first holder of the bonds, assuming that there was no traud.

The transaction

.

was, in substance, plainly nothing more than a purchase by
the city of its own bonds, some of which 'had been issued and
others of which it was under obligation to issue, at the call of
Looking at it in the light of, subsequent

the vendor.

events, it was no doubt an advantageous purchase for the city;
and, if the uncontradicted evidence is to be believed, it was
deemed at the time an advantageous sale or arrangement for
the company.

.

.

.

We may add, the evidence is convinc-

ing that the contract between the city and the company was
made in the utmost good faith, with no intention to wrong

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

creditors of the latter; that it was at the time considered
advantageous to the company, and it is not proved that all
was not. paid for the bonds issued and to be issued that they
could have been sold for in the market."
So in Coit y. Gold Amalgamating Company, 119 U. S. 343,
it was held that where the charter of a corporation authorizes
the capital stock to be paid for in property, and the shareholders honestly and in good faith pay for their subscriptions
in property instead of money, third parties have no ground of
complaint, although a gross and obvious over-valuation of such
property would be strong evidence of fraud in an action by a
creditor to enforce personal liability. The court held that
where full-paid stock was issued for property received there
must be actual fraud in the transaction to enable creditors of
the corporation to call the stockholders to account. In delivering the judgment of the court in that case at the circuit, 14:
Fed. Rep. 12, Mr. Justice Bradley observed: "That trust (in
favor of creditors) does not arise absolutely in every case where
capital stock has been issued, and where it has been settled for
by arrangement with the company. It is not as if the stockholders had given their promissory notes for the amount, these
notes being in the treasury of the company; but there are often
equities to which the stockholders are entitled -on which they
are o stand." As one of them, he mentioned the case of stock
C-ividends fairly made in consideration of profits earned and of
accumulations of the property of the company, and observed:
"It is not true that it is in the power 'of a creditor in every
case, and in all cases, as a mere matter of right, to institute an
inquiry as to the valuation of the amount of the consideration.
given for the stock, and disturb fair arrangements for its payment in other ways than by cash. If the stock has been fairly
created and paid for; there is an end of trusts in favor of anybody; and this does not affect the general proposition that
unpaid subscriptions of stock are a trust fund to be administered for the benefit of creditors after a corporation becomes
insolvent."

A case nearer in point is that of Clar7 v. Bever, ante, 96,
decided at ihc present term of this court. In this case, a rail-

HA_NDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

road company, of which defendant's intestate was president
and stockholder, had a setleeiit'with a construction company, of which defendant's intestate was also a ifieniber,-for
worl done in building the road. The railroad company, being
unable to pay the claim of the construction company, delivered
to it thirty-five hundred shares of its stock at 20 cents on tl.dollar, and the same were accepted in full satisfaction of the
debt. The stock was not worth anything in the market, and
was issued directly to the defendant's intestate. No other
payment than the 20 per cent was ever made on account of
this stock. A judgment creditor of the railroad company filed
a bill to compel the payment by the defendant of his claim,
upon the theory that he was liable'for the actual par value of
such stock, whatever may have been its market value at the
time it was received. It was held he coulh not recover. " Of
course, under this view," says 'Mr. Justice Harlan, in delivering
the opinion of the court, "every one having claims against the
railway company, - even laborers and cmployos, - who could
get nothing except stock in payment of their demands, became
bound, by accepting stock at its market value in payment, to
account to unsatisfied judgment creditors for its full face value,
although, at the time it was sought to make them liable, the
corporation had ceased to exist, or its stock had remained, as
it was when taken, absolutely worthless. . . . To say that
a public corporation, charged with public duties, may not relieve itself from embarrassment by paying its debt in stock at
its real value -there being no statute forbidding such a transaction, - without subjecting the creditor, surrendering'his debt,
to the liability attaching to stockholders who have agreed, expressly or impliedly, to pay the face value of stock subscribed
by them, is, in effect, to compel them either to suspend operations the moment they become unable to pay their current
debts, or to borrow money secured by mortgage upon the
corporate property."
So in FIuyg v..Blctir, ante, 118, also decided at the present
term, it was held to be -competent for a railroad, exercising
good faith, to use its bonds or stock in payment for the construction of its road, although it could not, as against creditors
VOL. cxxxix-28

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinioni of the Court.

or stockholders, issue its stock as fully paid without getting
some fair or reasonable equivalent for it. It was there said:
"What was such an equivalent depends primarily upon the
actual value of the stock at the time it was contracted to be
issued, and upon tle compensation which, under all the circumstances, the contractors were equitably entitled to receive
for the particular work undertaken or done by them." It appeared in that case that full and adequate compensation for
the work done had been paid by the company in its mortgage
bonds, and, as the bill contained no allegation whatever as to
the real or market value of such stock, it was held that the
contractors receiving this stock were not liable to creditors for
its par value. It was added: "If, when disposed of by the
railroad company, it was without value, no wrong was done
to creditors by the contract made with Blair and Taylor. If
the plaintiff expected to recover in this suit on the ground that
the stock was of substantial value, it was incumbent uponhim
to distinctly allege facts that would enable the court - assuming such facts to be true -to say that the contract between
the railroad company and, the contractors was one which, in
the interest of creditors, ought to be closely scrutinized." It
would seem to follow from this that if the stock had been
of some value, that value, however much less than par, would
have been the limit of the holder's liability.
In Morrow v. N asville Iron and Steel Co., 87 Tennessee,
262, 275, 276, the Supreme Court of Tennessee held, that a contract with a subscriber to stock of a corporation, that for every
share subscribed he should receive bonds to an equal amount,
secured by mortgage on the company's plant, is void as against
creditors, and also between the subscriber and the corporation.
But the court drew a distinction between such a case and sales
of or subscription to the stock of'an organized and going corporation. It said: "The necessities of the business of an organized company might demand an increase of capital stock,
and if such stock is lawfully issued, it may very well be offered
upon special terms. In such case, if the market price was less
than par, it is clear that a purchaser or subscriber for such
stock at its market value would, in the absence of fraud, be

HANDLEY v. STUTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

-,liable only for his contract price. So a case might arise where
the stock of a going concern was much depreciated, and whero
its bonds were likewise below par, and there was lawful autiio :ity to issue additional stock and bonds. Now, in such casv,
the real market value of an equal amount of stock and bond:,
might not exceed, or even equal, the par value of either. In
such cases, the question of fraud aside, a purchaser would only
be held for his contract price." This case from Tennessee
puts as an illustration the exact case with which'we are now
dealing.
The liability of a subscriber for the par value of increased
stock taken by him may depend somewhat upon the circumstances under which, and the purposes for which, such increase
was made. If it be merely for the purpose of adding to the
original capital stock of the corporation, and enabling it to do
a larger and more profitable business, such subscriber would
stand practically upon the same basis as a subscriber to the
original capital. But we think that an active corporation
may, for the purpose of 15aying its debts, and obtaining money
for the successful prosecution- of its business, issue its stock and
dispose of it for the best price that can be obtained. Stein v.
Howard,65 California, 616. As the company in this case found
it irnpossible to negotiate its bonds at par without the stock, and
as the stock was issued for the purpose of enhancing the value
of the bonds, and was taken by the subscribers to the bonds
at a price fairly representing the value of both stock and
bonds, we think the transaction should be sustained, and that
the defendants cannot be called upon to respond for the par
value of such stock, as if they had subscribed to the original
stock of the company. Our conclusion upon this-branch of
the case disposes of it as to those who were held liable by
virtue of their subscription to the bonds.
6. We have no doubt the learned 'circuit judge held correctly that it was only subsequent creditors who were entitled
to enforce their claims against -these stockholders, since it is
only they who could, lhy any legal presumption, have trusted
the company upon the faith of the increased stock. Fhrt
N1ational Bank f 'Deadwood v. G stin 21n~eva Consolidated

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

.Jllning CIonany, 44 N. W. Rep. 198; 2 Morawetz on Corporations, §g 832-3; loit v. I. C. Gold Amalgamating Co., 14
Fed. Rep. 12. We also agree with him, that creditors who
became such after the increase was voted in May, 1886, are
entitled to look to those who subsequently received the stock,
notwithstanding they did not receive it until after the debts
had been contracted. The circuit judge found in this connection that the "complainants had no knowledge or notice of
the subscription paper of December 30, 1886, under which
$45,000 of the new stock was distributed to those who
subscribed for bonds, nor of the distribution among the old
stockholders of $30,000 of said increased stock, nor does it
affirmatively appear that they or either of them dealt with
and trusted the company upon the faith of that increased
stock; but the fact that the capital stock had been increased
to $200,000 was made public and was generally known." The
real question in this connection is -when
may it be presumed
creditors trusted the corporation upon the faith of the increased stock? Obviously, when such increase was ordered.
That is a fact to which publicity would naturally be given;
the creditors could not be expected to know when and by
whom such stock would be taken. Itis true they assume the
risk of the stock not being taken at all, but the moment shares
are taken, they are supposed to represent so much money put
into the treasury as they are worth, which becomes available
for the payment not only of future, but of existing creditors.
It is manifest that any attempt to gauge the liability of stockholders by the exact time they took their stock with reference
to the dates when the several claims of the creditors accrued,
and by the further fact whether the creditors actually knew
of and relied upon such stock, would, in a case like this, where
the creditors and stockholders are both numerous, lead to inextricable confusion. Even the flexibility of a court of equity
would be inadequate to adjust the rights of the parties.
7. With regard to the special defence set up by Neely, that
he never consented to lor received certificates for increased
stock, we agree with the circuit judge that it is not sustained.
He did not live in Nashville, but had given a proxy to one

HA.DLEY

v. ISTUTZ.

Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Lamar, J.

Sandford to represent him at stockholders' meetings; he knew
of the arrangement to issue an amount of the stock equal to
the bonds, and to distribute $30,000 of the .increased stock,
ordered by the resolution of May, 1886 ;)and on April 5, 1887,
he gave a power of attorney to Sandford, authorizing the latter, for him, and in -his name and stead, to "receipt to the
Clifton Coal Company for stock in my name, and transfer,
bargain and sell the same as if I were there present." Under
this power of attorney, Sandford surrendered :Neely's certificate for 300 shares, and receipted for 375 shares, the certificates for which were delivered to him as agent of Neely, and
which Sandford subsequently voted at stockholders' meetings,
under the general proxy from Neely to represent his stock.
Knowing of the contemplated action in issuing the new stock,
and having authorized Sandford to represent him in all matters connected therewith, we think it too late for him to
repudiate Sandford's act in receiving the additional 75 shares,
which were distributed to him as the owner of 300 original
shares. Indeed, the circuit judge finds it to be established by
the proof that all of the old stockholders knew of and acquiesced in the disposition of the new.stock as made; and that
such increased stock was represented and voted at subsequent
meetings of stockholders, and was recognized and held out to
the public as part of the capital stock of the company. Under
the case of Sawyer v. Hloag, 17 Wall. 610, Neely was clearly
not entitled to set-off against the claim of the creditors his
own claim against the corporation. Cook on Stock and Stockholders, secs. 193 and 194.
There are several minor points made in the briefs of counsel
with regard to the claims of certain creditors, which we-do not
find it necessary to discuss at length. We think there was no
error in the rulings of the court in these particulars.
It results that the decree of the court below must be
Reserved, .and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
MNR. CHIEF Jusrc
TiOE LA tAR,

FULLER,

dissenting.

with whom concurred MR. JUS-

OCTOBER TERME, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

I dissent from the conclusion of the court in respect of the
stock received by the subscribers to the bonds. That stock
was not paid fol' in money or money's worth, or issued in payment of debts due from the company, or purchased at sale
upon the market. It was a mere bonus, thrown in with the
bonds as furnishing the inducement to the bond subscription,
of larger control over the corporation, and of possible gain
without expenditure. Becoming secured creditors through the
bonds, the subscribers increased their power through the stock.
In my view, there was no actual payment for the stock, and
to treat it as paid up, is to sanction an arrangement to relieve
those who would reap the benefit derived from the possession
of the stock, in the event of the success, from liability for the
consequences, in the event of the failure, of the enterprise.
When the capital stock of a corporation has become impaired, or the business in which it has engaged has proven so
unremunerative as to call for a change, creditors at large may
well demand that experiments at rehabilitation should not be
conducted at their risk.
My brother L AR concurs with me in this dissent.

TALBOTT v. SILVER BOW COUNTY.
APPEAL TROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE TERRITORY

OF

MONTANA.
No. 221.

Submitted March 12, 1891. -Decided

March 30, 1891.

The territories possess the same power of taxing national banks which
States enjoy.
Section 1003 of chapter 53 of the fifth division of the Revised Statutes of
Montana Territory, as amended by the Act of February 22, 1881, Laws
of 1881, p. 67, is not in conflict with Rev. Stat. § 5219.
Under the general Territorial system, as expressed in the various organic
acts, the power of taxatign is absolute, save as restricted by the Constitution or congressional enactments.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

