INTERSTATE LAND CO. v. MAXWELL LA ND CO.

569

Opinion of the Court.

INTERSTATE LAND COMPANY v. MAXWELL
LAND GRANT COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 1267. Argued Mfarch 10, 1891.-Deeided April 6, 1891.
A demurrer admits facts well pleaded, but does not admit that the construction of a written instrument set forth in the bill is the true one, or that
its legal effect is dontrary to that which its language imports.
Questions affecting the validity of the Maxwell land grant, as to the authority of the Mexican government to make it, are no longer open; and a
party claiming the same land under a prior grant from the Mexican government must, to succeed in bis claim, recover on the strength of his
own title.
An empresario grant of land in Mexico operated to designate a tract of
country within which the empresariosmight establish a colony or colonies;
but no title to any land passed to them until such colony was established.
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, and Gonzales v. Ross, 120 U. S. 605,
distinguished from this case.

IN EQUITY. Decree dismissing the bill.
pealed. The case is stated in the opinion.

Complainant ap-

Mr. Alexander Graves (with whom were XM. Wijllam Wa'rner and .M. John L. Jerome on the brief) for appellant.
.M". Frankn S'ringer for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought by the Interstate Land
Company, a Colorado corporation, against the Maxwell Land
Grant Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the
Kingdom of the Netherlands, and doing business in Colorado,
pursuant to the laws of that State, to establish its title to a large
tract of land in Las Animas County, Colorado, for which the
defendant has a United States patent, and to restrain the defendant from prosecuting certain suits in ejectment against.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

various parties who are tenants of the plaintiff. A demurrer
to the original bill was sustained by the court below presided
over by Mr. Justice Brewer, then Circuit Judge, his opinion
being reported in 41 Fed. Rep. 275. The plaintiff then
amended its bill in some particulars, and the defendant again
demurred. The demurrer was sustained, and the plaintiff declining to further amend, the bill was dismissed. From that
decree an appeal was prosecuted to this court.
The case as made by the pleadings on the demurrer is as
follows: The lands in dispute are part of the tract embraced
in the patent to Charles Beaubien and Guadalupe Miranda,
dated May 19, 1879, for what is known as the " Maxwell Land
Grant," in New Mexico and Colorado, the validity of which
was assailed by the United States in the .Mamwell Land Grant
Case, 121 U. S. 325, and S. C., on petition for rehearing, 122
U. S. 365. In that case it was held, among other things, after
elaborate argument of counsel and upon a most thorough and
careful examination by the court of all the points involved,
that the grant by the Republic of Mexico, in 1841, to Beaubien
and Miranda, as confirmed by the act of Congress of June 21,
1860, the title of which had passed to the Maxwell Land Grant
Company (the defendant in this case) by various mesne conveyances, was a valid grant; and that the survey and the
patent issued upon it, as well as the original grant, were entirely free from any fraud on the part of the grantees or those
claiming under them. The decision of the court in that case
is not now assailed; but the contention is, substantially, that
the confirmation and patenting of the grant to Beaubien and
Miranda operated merely as a quit-claim of the United States
to whatever rights of property the government acquired from
Mexico by the treaty of Guadalupe iHidalgo, and did not, in
any manner, affect claims to the same land derived from the
Republic of Mexico, which antedated the original grant to
Beaubien and Miranda.
The claim of the plaintiff here rests upon an alleged empresario grant to John Charles Beales and Jos6 Manuel Royuela,
in 1832, by the government of Coahuila and Texas, then two
Mexican States under one provincial administration. What-

INTERSTATE LAND CO. v. MAXWELL LAND CO.

571

Opinion of the Court.

ever rights to the lands in dispute were acquired by the original
enTresarios,or colonizing contractors, have passed to the plaintiff under various mesne conveyances. The petition of the
e iresaqos and the acceptance of their proposition by the
Mexican authorities, which together constitute the basis of
plaintiff's claim, are as follows:
"Petition and grants to Jos6 Manuel Royuela and John Charles
Beales for the years one thousand eight hundred and thirtytwo and thirty-three.
"To his excellency the governor of the State of Coahuila and
Texas.
"Sm: The citizen Jos6 Manuel Royuela, a native of Saltillo,
and there married, and John Charles Beales, a native of England settled in Mexico, and there married to a Mexican subject,
having children, with all due respect represent to your excellency,
"That, being very desirous of augmenting the population,
wealth and power of the Mexican nation, and at the same time
of affording to a certain number of virtuous and industrious
families the means of acquiring an honorable subsistence by
cultivating a tract of land in the ancient province of Texas,
and being, moreover, acquainted in full with the law of colonization passed by the honorable legislature of this State on the
twenty-fourth of March, one thousand eight hundred and
twenty-five, by which Iempresallios' or colonizing contractors
are allowed to undertake to colonize under the conditions and
stipulations by said law prescribed, and being anxious to form
an establishment that may be useful to a new colony and at
the same time beneficial to the State on account of the advantages to accrue thereout,
"1Wepray your excellency to accept us as such Iempre.arios'
or colonizing contractors, and to permit us to introduce into
this State, within the time that may be stipulated, two hundred Catholic families, of moral and ,industrious habits, and
for that object your excellency will be pleased to grant us the
tract of land included within the following limits, viz: Begin.

OCTOBER TERMN,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

ning at a landmark set up on a spot whereat the thirty-second
degree of north latitude is crossed by the meridian of the hundred and second degree of longitude west* from London, said
spot being at the southwest corner of the grant petitioned for
by Col. Reuben Ross; from thence procdeding west along the
parallel of the thirty-second degree of latitude as far as the
eastern boundary of New Mexico; from thence runping north
o-the boundary line between the -provinces of Coahuila and
Texas and New Mexico as far as twenty leagues of the river
Arkansas; from thence east to the meridian of the hundred
and second degree of longitude, which is the western boundary
of the grant petitioned for by said Col. Reuben Ross, and
from thence proceeding south as far as the place of beginning.
"Your petitioners, as 'empresarios,' pray for this grant on
the same conditions that it was formerly given to the late
Stephen Julian Wilson, whose term of six years is about to
expire, on the twenty-sixth of May in this year, without the
conditions of the grant having been fulfilled, in consequence of
the grantee. Besides the conditions which are required by the
colonization law of the State the empresariosand their settlers
agree to observe the constitution of the Mexican nation and the
private constitutioa of this State as 'well. as the general and
local laws that have been or shall be hereafter ,promulgated.
They further bind themselves to comply with the conditions
on which this petition is granted, and to take up arms in defence of the rights of the nation against the savage Indians or
any other enemies that may attack the country or in any manner [seek] to alter its form of government or to disturb the public tranquillity; and, finally, to prevent the inhabitants of the
United States of North America from trading with the said
Indians and providing them with arms and ammunition in
exchange for horses and mules.
"Wherefore, we pray your excellency to be pleased to grant
this respectful petition, which we shall consider as a favor
conferred on us.
"I]hted at Saltillo, thd thirteenth of March, one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-two.

(Signed)

"JosI

MANUEL ROYUELA..

" JoHN CHARLEs BEATES."

INTERSTATE LAND CO. v. MAXWELL LAND CO. 573
Opinion of the Court.

"Conditions of the Grant.
"Terms on which the supreme government of the State accepts
the proposal of the citizens Joss Manuel R6yuela and John
Charles Beales for colonizing certain land with two hundred foreign families, such as are not excepted by the law
of the sixth of April, one thousand eight hundred and
thirty.
"A-TIcLE 1. The government accepts the proposal made in
the foregoing petition, as far as it is conformable with the law
of colonization passed by the honorable Congress of the State
on the twenty-fourth of March, one thousand eight hundred
and twenty-five, and consequently assigns to the petitioners the
tract of land included within the following limits, that they
may establish thereon the proposed colony: It shall begin at a.
landmark which shall be set up on the spot where the parallel
of the third-second degree of north latitude crosses the meridian of the hundred and second degree of longitude west from
London, said spot being at the southwest- corner of the grant
petitioned for by Col. Reuben Ross. From thence it shall proceed along the parallel of the thirty-second degree of latitude
as far as the eastern liiit of New Mexico. From thence it shall
ascend north on the boundary line between the provinces of
Coahuila and Texas and New Mexico as far as twenty leagues
of the river Arkansas. From thence it shall run east to the
meridian of the hundred and second degree of longitude,
which is the western boundary of the grant petitioned for by
the said Col. Reuben Ross; and from thence it shall proceed
south as far as the place of beginning.
"ATr. 2. Though the boundaries of the tract set forth in
the preceding clause are those assigned to 'Stephen Julian
Wilson in a grant passed by this government on the twentyseventh of May, one thousand eight hundred and twentysix, yet this circumstance has not been .considered an impediment to the entering into the present contract, inasmuch
as the time allotted to the said Wilson for the completion
of said enterprise will (expire) in the month of May of this
present year without his having to this day performed the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

same or any part whatsoever; but if, however, in the short
time that has to elapse any number of the families of that
empresario should present themselves, then and in that case
the present grant shall, with due respect to the part or parts
performed by the first grantee thereof, be null and void to all
intents and purposes.
" ART. 3. In consideration of the grant hereinbefore specified the empresa-ios or contracting*parties agree to introduce
and settle, on their own accourit, two hundred foreign families,
conforming themselves as well to the general law of the Republic as to the laws of the State in this behalf provided.
" ART.4. All lands whatsoever held under legl titles that
may be included within the limits designated in article first
shall be respected by the colonists who shall hold under this
contract, and it shall be obligatory on the part of the empresarios to see the observance of this clause.
"ART. 5. The State retains to itself the right of property
over all the surplus lands which shall remain of this grant
after laying off -those which belong to the empresarios and
their settlers according to the laws in that behalf provided.
"ART. 6. In conformily with article 8 of the law on colonization hereinbefore referred to the empresarios are bound to
introduce the stipulated number of two hundred families
within the term of six years, which shall be computed from
the date hereof, -under the penalty of being debarred from all
the privileges and advantages afforded by the said law.
."ART. 7. It shall be obligatory on the ermpresarios not to
introduce or suffer to remain in the colony men guilty of atrocious crimes or of bad conduct; as also to endeavor that no
person whatsoever shall carry on traffic in arms and ammunition with the barbarous tribes of Indians in exchange for
horses and mules.
"ART. 8. Whenever there shall be a sufficient number of
men, the national, militia shall be duly organized and regulated according to the laws of the State in that respect provided.
" ART. 9. The colony shall be regulated by the person whom
this government shall appoint to allot the respective sdttle-

INTERSTATE LAND CO. v. MAXWELL LAND CO. 575
Opinion of the Court.

ments or possessions, and he shall duly observe the laws on
colonization in force throughout the State, the general law of
the eighteenth of August, one thousand eight hundred and
twenty-four, and likewise the instructions to commissioners
which have been appointed by the honorable Congress, taking
care to afford protection within the limits of the colony to such
persons only as shall be approved of by the said em2resarios.
"ArT. 10. All official communications, instruments and
other public documents emanating from the colony must be
written in the Spanish language.
. "ART. 11. In reference to all matters not provided for
or
expressed in these articles, the empresarios or the new settlers
holding under them shall abide and be governed by the federal constitution and the laws of this State.
"And his excellency the governor of the State, as also the
citizens Jos6.Manuel Royuela and John Charles Beales, having agreed in the articles of this contract to grant and bound
respectively to the observance and performance thereof, afterwards signed the same before me, the undersigned secretary
of this government.
"And having been directed to give the empresarios this
certified copy of all the documents relating to the grant, that
they may serve them as security and as formal title (or as a
title in form) thereto, the original will, according to law,
remain filed and recorded in the secretary's office under my
charge.
"Dated, city of Leona Vicario, the fourteenth day of March,
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two.
" Jost MA.RIA DR LEToNA,
(Signed)
"JonN CHARLEs BEALES.
"Jos)6, MANUEL ROYUELA.
"SANTIAGO DEL VALLE, Secretary.
"The foregoing is copied from the original documents filed
and recorded in the secretary's office under my charge, whence
it was ordered taken by his excellency the governor.
"City of Leona Vicario, the fourteenth, of March, one thousand eight handred and thirty-two.
" SANTIAGO DEL VALLE, Secretar,%y."
(Signed)

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill in this case was filed January 20, 1888. After
some introductory, matters, it set out with much particularity
the various proceedings had in the matter of the grant to
lBeaubien and Miranda, both under the Mexican law and subsequent to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, by which the
territory was acquired by the United States, up to and including the acquisition of the grant by the defendant, substantially as they. are detailed in the M4xwell Land Grant Case,
121 U. S.325, and, averred that that grant, being an alleged
empresario grant, was absolutely void, because at the date it
was made there was no law of Mexico in existence under
which there was any fauthority for it. It then set out, with
equal precision, the various proceedings had in relation to the
alleged empresariogrant to Beales and Royuela, and the various mesne conyeyances by which the plaintiff becanie possessed of it. The amended bill averred that,the Mexican
government, by sundry and divers official acts, (which, are set
forth and described,) 'recognized that Beales and Royuela, by
virtue of their empresario contract, had the title in fee to the
lands in question. It then averred that the plaintiff and its
tenants were in the exclusive possession of the premises in
dispute, and that the defendant had never been in possession
of them. One of the official acts of the Mexican' government
referred to was said to be the following order made by the
President of the Republic of Mexicoj dated Mexico, ,July 12,
1886, addressed to Beales: "His excellency the President,
ad interim has been advised of the judicious and circumspect
course which yon may ha6ve taken in employing 'your influence to allay the disturbances which have broken out and
to sustain order and the obedience due to the general government, and in correcting public'opinion through the medium of
the newspapers in the United States of the North; and his
excellency, being satisfied with this and the like proceedings
on your part, which are such as belong to a good citizen, has
directed me to return you thanks, as an acknowledgment for
the same, and to require tht you will continue in the most
effectual manner in your power your good offices'in defence
of the just cause of the nation and t9 maintain and' impress a-

INTERSTATE LAND C0. v. MfAXWELL LAND CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

spirit of order and peace upon the inhabitants of the colonial
district placed under your charge, and also upon all other
persons who may be interested in the benefits which will
ensue from a like course of conduct. In consideration of
which services afforded to this nation in its present struggle,
an order has been issued by this department, at the instance
of the general-in-chief, to the army of operation to afford protection to the colonial establishments of yourself and Sefior
Edgerton, who has concurred in the course of proceedings
which you have taken; and his excellency cobperates in the
recommendation in his favor as well as yours, in the manner
indicated by this communication."
The amended bill then continued as follows: "And the
plaintiff further avers that the said Mexican government, in
pursuance of said order, did at all times maintain and protect
the possession and title of the said Royuela and Beales to the
said lands, and continued so to do until th e successful revolution of Texas (one of the grantors) rendered it utterly impossible to afford further protection. And the plaintiff further
avers and alleges that, in addition to having taken actual
possession of the lands embraced in said grant and having
sectionized a large part thereof, the said Beales, in further
performance of the condition of said grant, had introduced a
portion of the families, as required by its terms, and would
have introduced all the families of the class described therein,
and would have performed all the conditions of the said grant
had he not been wholly prevented in such performance by the
said revolution of Texas, which resulted in its independence of
Mexican authority."
Attached to the bill as exhibits, .and made part of it, are
copies of the records of the proceedings in the matter of both
of the claims in question; and in the consideration of the
questions involved herein it will.be necessary to refer to some
of them somewhat more in detail.
The proposition of counsel for appellant that the effect of
the demurrer is an admission p'io l ac vice that the Interstate
Land Company has the title in fee to the lands in dispute
needs only tfie single reply that a demurrer admits facts well
VOL. cxxxix-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

pleaded, but does not admit that the construction of a written
instrument set forth in the bill is the true one, or that its legal
effect is contrary to that which its language imports. The
very object of a demurrer in such case is to submit the question presented by the instrument as a matter of law for the
determination of the court. Story's Eq. P1. (9th Ed.) ยง 452,
note a; Dillon v. Barnard, 21 Wall. 430, 437; United States
v. Ames, 99 U. S. 35, 45.
Passing now to the merits of the controversy, the first question to be disposed of relates to the patented grant of the defendant. We have already stated that, in the XJfaxwell Land
Grant Case, it was held that the grant to Beaubien and M iranda, which is the foundation of the defendant's title, was a
valid grant, and that the decision of the court in that case is
not directly assailed. The effect of the decision in- that case,"
however, is evidently misunderstood by the appellant; for one
of the main points urged on this appeal is, that that grant was
void at. "initio,for the reason that, being an alleged emresario grant, authority for it must be found in the colonization
laws of Mexico, and those laws had been repealed by a law of
the Republic passed in 1837, four years prior to the date of
that grant. It becomes necessary, therefore, to State with
some degree of particularity what was actually decided in
that case.
A reference to that decision will show that the validity of
the grant was one of the principal questions there considered.
As stated in the opinion, the first question presented for consideration was: "Do the colonization laws of Mexico, in force
at the time the grant was made to Beaubien and Miranda,
namely, the decree of the Mexican Congress of August 18,
1824, and the general rules and regulations for the colonization of the territories of the Republic of Iexico of November
21, 1828, render this grant void, notwithstanding its confirmation by the Congress of the -United States?" 121 U. S. 360.
The court then discussed that question very fully, and came
to the conclusion that the grant certainly partook very largely
of the nature of an en presario grant, and was evidently so
considered by Congress when it was confirmed. Among other

INTERSTATE LAND CO. v. MAXWELL LAND CO.

579

Opinion of the Court.

things, it was found that juridical possession had been given to
the original grantees by the alcalde, one Cornelio Vigil, who
accompanied the delivery of possession with a disefio or
plat showing the boundaries of the tract granted. But the
decision was not rested solely upon the fact that the grant
was generally understood to be an emyresario grant, but upon
the proposition that the action of Congress in confirming it as
made to Beaubien and Miranda, and as reported for confirmation by the suveyor general of New Mexico, without any
qualification or limitation as to its extent, was conclusive upon
the court. In this connection the court said, (pp. 365-6:)
" But whether, as a matter of fact, this was a grant, not limited
in quantity, by the Mexican decree of 1824, or whether it was
-a grant which in strict law would have been held by the Mexican government, if it had continued in the ownership of the
property, to have been subject to that limitation, it is not necessary to decide at this time. By the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, under which the United States acquired the right of
property in all the public lands of that portion of New Mexico
which was ceded to this country, it became its right, it had
the authority, and it engaged itself by that treaty to confirm
valid Mexican grants. If, therefore, the great surplus which
it is claimed was conveyed by its patent to Beaubien and Miranda was the property of the United States, and Congress
acting in its sovereign capacity upon the question of the validity of the grant, chose to treat it as valid for the boundaries
given to it by the Mexican governor, it is not for the judicial
department of this government to controvert their power to
do so;" citing Tameling v. United States
eehold &o. Co.,
93 U. S. 644.
Afterwards it was said: "At the time that Congress passed
upon the grant to Beaubien and Miranda, whatever interest
there was in the land claimed which was not legally or equitably their property was the property of the United States;
and Congress having the power to dispose of that property,
and having, as we understand it, confirmed this grant, and
thereby made such disposition of it, it is not easily to be perceived how the courts of the United States can set aside this

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

action of Congress.

Certainly the power of the courts can

go no further than to make a construction of what Congress
intended to do by the act, which we have already considered,
confirming this grant and others." 121 U. S. 882.
We conclude, therefore, that questions affecting the validity
of that grant, that is, as to the authority of the Mexican government to make it, are no longer open. The action of Congress
in confirming it and the subsequent proceedings in the Land
Department, together with the proceedings in the courts to
set aside the patent, have certainly settled those questions
forever. True, those proceedings do not estop a -party claiming the same land under a prior grant from the Mexican governtuent. But, to succeed in his claim,* he must recover on the
strength of his own title. In other words, he must establish
the validity of his own grant in order to defeat a subsequent
grant which has been' adjudged valid in proper legal proceedings. The confirmation and patenting of the grant to Beaubien 'and Miranda operated to divest the United States of all

their rights to the land' embraced in the grant which 'this
country acquired from Mexico by the treaty of Guadalupe

Hidalgo. And the only way that that grant can be defeated
now is to show that the lands embraced in it had" been previously granted by the 'Mexican government to some other
person.
This leads naturally to the consideration of the nature and
extent of the grant to Royuela and Beales in 1832, which is
the foundation of the appellant's title. On the one hand it is
contended that the contract of the States of Coahuila and
Texas with the empresarios operated as a grant of the fee to
the contractors of all the land described in the instruments of
title, subject to be defeated only by the failure of the enpresarios to perform the conditions subsequent of the grant;
that the performance of those conditions became impossible
by reason of the fact that one of the grantor States engaged
in open war with the Republic of Mexico, and achieved its
independence prior to the time within which such performance
was required; and' that the grant was thereby relieved of
those conditions and became absolute. The tract thus claimed

INTERSTATE LANID CO. v. MAXWELL LAND CO.

581

Opinion of the Court.

embraces about 60,000,000 acres. On the part of the defendant it is insisted that the conditions of the grant were precedent, and that, therefore, no title passed to the contractors
until those conditions were performed; and that, in no event,
under the contract, could the emyresario8 have aquired a title
to the whole body of land described, even if all the conditions
had been performed. In other words, it is said that the grant
in question operated simply to designate a large tract of
country within which the empresc rios might establish a colony
or colonies; that no title to any land passed to them until
such colony was established; that if a colony was established,
the colonists were to be supplied with land taken from this
large body of land; that the amount of lands to which the
empresa-"ios would be entitled, upon tle establishment cf a
colony, was to be determined by the number of families introduced by them, and must also be taken from this large body
of land; and that, of necessity, those premium lands, of the
contractors, as they were called, must be of a less quantity
than the grant as designated by its outboundaries.
The Circuit Court adopted, substantially, the views of the
defendant. In this we think the court was correct. In fact,
the opinion of the learned judge who presided on the hearing
of the case, is a comprehensive and exhaustive review of the
case, as presented by the original bill and demurrer, and leaves
little to be said on the questions then presented. A few observations, we think, will demonstrate the correctness of that
.conclusion. In construing the instruments of title, reference
must be had to all parts of them. -The mere fact that the
word "grant" is used many tinies in them, sometimes apparently in its general and unrestricted sense of a conveyance of
the title,' ought not to be permitted to outweigh other parts
of the instruments which clearly negative that idea. Referring to the first article of the "conditions of the grant," its
language is found to be as follows:" The government accepts
the proposal made in the foregoing petition as far as it is conformable with the laws of colonization passed by the honorable Congress of the State on the' twenty-fourth of March, one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-five, and consequently

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

assigns to the petitioners the tract of land included within
the following limits, that they may establish thereon the proposed colony," etc. As was well remarked by Judge Brewer,
this article "may be considered as most nearly like the granting clause in an ordinary deed." Now, does it in any sense
purport to convey the fee in the lands specified to the empresarios? We think not. The government -"assigns" to the
contractors the tract of land described. But did it do so absoZutely ? Ceftainly not; but for a particular purpose, viz. the
establishment thereon of a colony. The establishment of a
colony was the consideration for the assignment. And if, as
is 'contended, the empresarios thereby became possessed of
the fee to that vast region of country, where were the colonists provided for? Where were they to get lands? An
answer to those questions'shows at once the fallacy of the
.appellant's position. Again, that idea is wholly inconsistent
with article 5, which provides that "the State retains to itself
the right of property over all the surplus lands which shall
remain of this grant, after laying off those which belong to
the em~resaios and their settlers, according to the laws in
that behalf provided." How could there be any surplus lands
if the em'presariosgot all of them? That section, if it means
anything at all, clearly negatives the appellant's contention,
and is in complete harmony with the law of 1825 to which
we-shall presently refer.
But furthermore, the proposition of the petitioners was accepted, and the assignment was made "as far as it is (was)
conformable With the laws bf colonization passed by-the hou-,
orable Congress of the State on the 24th of March, 1825."
To ascertain with precision the meaning of the contract, its
terms must be read in the light of that act. It is found in
Rockwell's Spanish and Xexican Law, p. 641, and consists of
48 articles. The articles bearing particularly upon the question under consideration are as follows:
" AnT. 8. The projects for new settlements in which one or

more persons offer to bring at their expense, one hundred or
more families, shall be presented to the government, and if
found conformable with this law, they will be admitted; and

INTERSTATE LAND CO. v. M-ffAXWELL LAND CO.

58a

Opinion of the Court.

the government will immediately designate to the contractors,
the land where they are to establish themselves, and the term
of six years, within which they must present the number of
families they contracted for, under the penalty of losing the
rights and privileges offered in their favor, in proportion to
the number of families which they fail to introduce, and the
contract totally annulled if they do not bring, at least, one
hundred families.
"ART. 9. Contracts made by the contractors or undertakers, empresarios with families brought at their expense,
are guaranteed by this law so far as they are conformable
with its provisions.
"ART. 10. In the distribution of lands, a preference shall
be given to the military entitled to them, by the diplomas
issued by the supreme executive power, and to Mexican citizens who are not military, among whom there shall be no
other distinction than that founded on their individual merit,
or services performed for the country, or in equal circumstances, a residence- in the place where the land may be
situated; the quantity of land which may be granted is designated in the following articles.
"ART. 11. A square of land, which on one side has one
league or five thousand varas, or what is the same thing, a
superficie of twenty-five million varas, shall be called a - sitio,
and this shall be the unity for counting one, two or more
sitios; and also the unity for counting one, two or more
labors, shall be one million square varas or one thousand on
each side, which shall compose a labor. The vara for this
measurement shall be three geometrical feet.
" A'r. 12. Taking the above unity as a basis and observing
the distinction which must be made, between grazing land,
or that which is proper for raising of stock, and farming
land, without the facility of irrigation this law grants to the
contractor or contractors, for the establishment of a new
settlement, for each hundred families, which he may. introduce and establish in the State, five sitios of grazing land,
and five labors at least, the one-half of which shall be without
the facility of irrigation; but they can only receive this pre-

58.4: -

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

mium for eight hundred families, although a greater number
should be introduced, and no fraction whatever less than one
hundred shall entitle them to any premium, not even proportionally.
"ART. 13. Should any contractor or contractors in virtue
of the 'number of families which he may have introduced,
acquire in conformity with the last article, more than eleven
square leagues of land, it shall nevertheless be granted,
but subject to the condition of alienating the excess, within
-twelve years, and if it is not done, the respective political
authority shall do it, by selling it at public sale, delivering
the proceeds to the owners, after deducting the costs of sale.
"AIT. 14. To each family comprehended in a contract,
whose sole occupation is cultivation of land, one labor shall be
given ;'should he also be a stock-raiser, grazing land shall be
added to complete a sitio, and should his only occupation
be raising of stock, he shall only receive a superficie* of grazing land, equal to twenty-four million square bars."
The fbllowing articles of the "instructions to the commissionerd appointed by the legislature of the State " for the partition of the lands among the colonists, under the act of
March 24, 1825, found in RockwelPs Spanish and Mexican
Law, p. 649, relate to the question at issue:
"ART. 4. He shall issue, in the name of the State, the titles
for land, in conformity with the law, and put the new colonists in possession of their lands, with all legal formalities, and
the previous citation of adjoininAg proprietors, should there be
any."
"ART. 6. He shall take care that no vacant lands be left
between possessions, and in order that the lines of each one
may be clearly designated, he shall compel the colonists, within
the term of one year, to mark their lines, and to establish fixed
and permanent corners.
"ART. 7. Re shall appoint under his own responsibility the
surveyor, who must survey the land scientifically, requiring
him previously to take an oath truly and faithfully to discharge the duties of his office.
"AT. 8. He shall form a manuscript book of paper of the

INTERSTATE LAND 00. v. MAXWELL LAND CO. 585
Opinion of the Court.

third stamp, in which shall be written the titles of the lands
distributed to the colonists, specifying the names, the boundaries and other requisites, and legal circumstances; and a, certified copy of each title shall be taken from said book on paper
of the second stamp, which shall be delivered to the interested
person as his title."
"ART. 10. This book shall be preserved in the archives of
the new colony, and an exact form of it shall be transmitted
to the government, specifying the number of colonists, with
their names and the quantity of land granted to each one, distinguishing that which is farming land with or without the
facilities of irrigation, and that which is granted as grazing
land."
The act of 1825 and the instructions issued to carry it into
effect, when read in connection with the terms of the "conditions of the grant," abundantly show, we think, that the extravagant claim of the appellant is utterly without foundation.
In this connection we can do no better than quote the words
of Mr. Justice Brewer, then Circuit Judge. After quoting
from the law of 1825 and the instructions just mentioned, he
said: "Article eight of the law quoted above, prescribes what
the government will do when the petition of an emnresario
for colonization is presented. If found conformable with this
law, the government will immediately ' designate' to the contractors land whereon to establish themselves. This, of course,
does not mean that the government will grant them the land,
but simply that it will select and designate the place where a
colony may be settled. So that. when we find, in the first
article of the grant, that the government assigns a given tract
to the petitioners for the establishment of a colony, the assignment is made by virtue of this article eigrit of the law, and
means simply the selection of a place for the colony. Passing
on to article 12, we find what the government will give to the
e61Ipresawio specifically declared, to wit, for each hundred families five sitios of grazing land and five labors, at least the onehalf of which shall be withouf the facility of irrigation. This
article makes plain the meaning of article three of the grant,
and shows that that means simply that, 'in consideration of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the setting apart of this large tract of land, the petitioners
agree to introduce and settle on thiat land two hundred foreign families. Articles 12 and 13 together provide what shall
be given to the emresario who introduces eight hundred families, and receives more than eleven square leagues of land.
This last article shows a clear intent that no party should obtain title to more than eleven square leagues, no matter what
services in colonization he may render to the State. Articles
14, 15 and 16 provide what the individual settlers are to
receive, and sections from 12 to 16, inclusive, explain fully the
meaning of article five of the grant, which declares that the
State retains title to all the surplus land within the grant after
laying off that which belongs, to the empresariosand their settlers. Thus the law makes plain the meaning of the.contract,
and shows that it was not a conveyance passing title. In
other words, the grant must be presumed to have been made
in pursuance of the law, and to be limited by the terms of the
law. Indeed, it is doubtful whether a grant made in excess
of the authority given by the law would be valid. This grant,
in terms, refers to the law under which it was made, and shows
that it was made in pursuance of the authority conferred by
that law, which provides that the government will select a
tract of land upon which the empresario may establish a colony, and that, if he does, he will be paid in land at a fixed
rate, and that the colonists that he introduces will also receive
definite amounts of land. This grant, made thus in pursuance of this law, means just what the law says it may mean,
and was simply a designation of a tract within which the petitioners might establish a colony. It of itself passed title to no
portion of the land to them." 41 Fed. Rep. 281, 282.
All this is in exact harmony with what this court said in
Spencer" v. Laley, 20 How. 264, 270, 271, speaking of the
colonization law now under consideration: "The contract of
an em.presoaio obliged him to introduce colonists into a specific
district. The colonist having a family was entitled to one
league .of land, of a particular quality, for which he paid a
small sum to the government. The empresario was paid five
leagues and five labors for every one hundred families intro-

INTERSTATE LAND CO. v. MAXELL LAND CO. 587
Opinion of the Court.
duced. Of course, the excess of land within the limits of the
colony, after supplying the colonists and the empresario, remained to the government. The commissioner of distribution
was an officer of the government, who superintended the
fulfilment of the contract by the empresario. He ascertained
the character of the colonists, allotted to them and the empresario their shares of land, and for that purpose appointed surveyors, received returns of survey, and executed the final
titles. Usually this officer was not appointed until colonists
were introduced, and a community was to be formed. The
sale of the land within the limits of the colony might disturb
the interest of the empresario or of the colonists, and hence
reference of the contracts of sale to the commissioner for
execution. If there were no colonists, and the empresario
opposed no objection, there was no reason why sales should
not be made, nor was there any occasion for the services of a
commissioner." See also Glenn v. United States, 13 How.
250.
With respect to the averments of the bill that the Mexican
government placed Beales in possession of the land, and recognized, in divers and sundry ways, that the fee in the land
passed to him and Royuela, very little need be said. The
official act of the Mexican government relied upon is set out
in full, as before stated, and a reference to it shows that it
does not necessarily refer to this grant. In fact, the inference
is, if its very. terms do not show it, that it does not. Its language is, that an order had been issued to the army of operation "to afford protection to the colonial establishments of
yourself and Sefior Edgerton." In view of the historical fact,
noticed in Gonzales v. .Ross, 120 U. S. 605, that Beales was
interested in other empresario contracts, the above averments
are, to say the least, very vague and uncertain. And the
averment that Beales was put in possession of the tract is inconsistent with the Mexican colonization law, and the empresario contract relied upon. He could not have been put in
possession of the whole region of country described, under
the law of 1825; and he could not have been put in possession
of any specific portion of it without first establishing a colony

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of at least one hundred families. As that was confessedly not
done by him, no rights of property were acquired.
With respect to the averment that, by reason of the Texas
revolution, the empresarios were prevented from carrying out
their contract, it is sufficient to say that, if such had been the
case, the contractors might have perfected their claim under
the laws pf Texas, as-passed soon after that revolution. Hl'ouston v. Robertson, 2 Texas, 1. As there is no averment of any
attempt to so perfect the claim, it is difficult to see what rights
can be assertedunder it at this late day.
Moreover, as the. claim had never been perfected prior to
the treaty of Guadalupe lidalgo, it was not protected by
virtue of thai treaty. It needs no citation of authorities to
support the general proposition of international law that pri-,
vate rights of property in a ceded territory are nowise affected
by a treaty cession. But that is not this case. There could
be no private rights of property, no vested interest, until the
-. conditions of the contract had been complied with. This
claim was one of the class which was expressly refused to be
recognized by the treaty. Article 10 of the original draft of
the treaty, as agreed upon between the commissioners representing this government and Mexico, was as follows:
"AR . 10. All grants of land made by the Mexican government, or by the competent authorities in territories previously
appertaining to Mexico, and remaining for the future within
the limits of the United States, shall be respected as valid to
the same extent that the same grants would be valid if the said
territories had remained within the limits of Mexico. But the
grantees of land in Texas, put in possession thereof, who, by
reason of the circumstances of the country since the beginning
of the troubles between Texas and the Mexican government,
may have been prevented from fulfilling all the conditions of
their grants, shall be under the obligation to fulfil the said conditions within the periods limited within the same respectively;
such periods to be,now counted from the date of the exchange
of ratifications of thig treaty; in default, of which the said
grants shall not be obligatory upon the State of Texas, in
virtue of the stipulations contained in this article. The fore-

INTERSTATE LA ND .0.

v. MAXWELL LAND CO. 589

Opinion of the Court.

going stipulation in regard to grantees of land in Texas is
extended to all grantees of land in the territories aforesaid
elsewhere than in Texas, put in possession under such grants;
and in default of the fulfilment of the conditions of any such
grant within the new -peridd, vhich, as above stipulated,
begins with the day of the exchange of ratifications of this
treaty, the same shall be null and void." Messag6 of the
President of the United States, transmitting papers relative to
the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, Feb. 8, 1849, Ex. Doc. 50,
H. R. 30th Cong.; 2d Session, p. 17.
That article, however, was stricken out by the Senate of the
United States, and in the message of President Polk the reasons for its rejection are stated in the following language,
(Ib.
32:) "The objection to the 10th article of the original
treaty was not that it proteot~d legitiiA te 'titles, which our
laws would have equally protected without it, but that it most
unjustly attempted to resuscitate grants which had become
mere nullities, by allowing the grantees the same period after
the exchange of the ratifications of the treaty, to which they
had been originally entitled after the date of their grants, for
the purpose of performing the conditions on which they, had
been made. In submitting the treaty to the Senate, I had
recommended the rejection of this article. That portion of it
in regard to lands in Texas did not receive a single vote in the
Senate. This information was communicated by the letter of
the Secretary of State 'to the Ministdr of Foreign Affairs of
Mexico, and was in possession of the Mexican government
during the whole period the treaty was before the Mexican
Congress, and the article itself was reprobated in that letter
in the strongest terms. Besides, our commissioners to Mexico
had been instructed 'that neither the President nor the Senate
of the United States can ever consent to ratify any treaty
containing the 10th article of the treaty of Guadalupe Iidalgo
in favor of grantees of land in Texas or elsewhere.' And
again, 'should the Mexican government persist in retaining
this article, then all prospect of immediate peace is ended;
and of this you may give them an absolute assurance.'"
It is contended, however, that the case of United States v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Apredondo, 6 Pet. 691, governs this case in favor of the contention of the appellant. In that case, however, the grant to
Arredondo was of a specific tract of four square leagues with
the condition that he should establish a colony thereon. This
condition was held to be a condition subsequent. It differs
from this case in that here there was no grant of any specific
body of land, but a mere desig'nation of a large tract within
which a colony might be formed and established; after which
the land to the colonists was to be allotted, and the premium
lands to the empresariosmeasured off.
Neither does the case of Gonzales v. Ross, 120 U. S. 605,
control this case. They are entirely dissimilar. In that case
the grant*was made under and by virtue of a law of Coahuila
and Texas passed in 1832, and a. commissioner appointed under
that law put the grantee in possession of the tract, at the same
time giving him the usual testimonio or deed. This court held
+hat the grant was absolute in form and sufficient to pass the
title. The reasoning of the court in that case, instead of supporting tho theory of -the appellant, in reality is against it. In
support of the general theory of this case which we have
adopted, see -remont v. United States, 17 How. 542; United
iller v. Dale, 92 U. S. 473;
States v. Armijo, 5 Wall. 44-4;
United States v. McLaughlin, 127 U. S. 428.
There are other questions presented, but the foregoing virtually disposes of them. In no aspect of the case can the
appellant recover. There is no error in the decree of the
court below, and it is
Affirmed.

