IX

RE DUNCAN.

Statement of the Case.

In re DUNCAN, Petitioner.
APPEAL FRO'M TIlE CIRCUIT COUIRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
TIlE WESTERN DISTRICT O" TEXAS.
No. 1174. Argued December 17, 1S90. - Decided March 30, 1891.
When the trial court of a State has jurisdiction and power, under state laws,
to deternine tile law applicable to the case of an indictment and trial for
murder, and the prisoner, when convicted, has an appeal to an appellate
court of the State, of which lie avails himself, the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District, if applied to for a writ of habeas corips,
pending the appeal, upon the ground that the proceedings are in violation of provisions of the Constitution of the United States, may properly decline to interfere.
A statute duly certified is presumed to have been duly passed until the
contrary appears.
When, in the trial of a cause, an objection is taken that the legislature
failed to comply with the provisions of the Constitution in the enactment of a statute, it should be so presented that the adverse party may
have opportunity to controvert the allegations, and to prove by the
record due conformity with the constitutional requirements.
Whether a state statute has or has not binding force, by reason of compliance or non-compliance with the provisions of the constitution of the
State, is a question for the state courts to determine.

TaE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
Dick Duncan was indicted by the grand jury of Maverick
County, Texas, for the crime of murder, and having been
arraigned, was tried in the District Court of that county and
State, found guilty, and his punishment assessed at death,,
anl the court entered judgment accordingly, from which -heappealed to the Court of Appeals. Ie was thereupon con-,
mitted to the jail of Bexar County upon the ground that
there was no safe jail in -Maverick County, McCall, the
appellee here, being sheriff of Bexar County at the time.
While the case was pending on appeal and on the 10th of
April, 1890. Duncan filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Texas his petition for a
writ of iabeaqs cort., to be discharged from custody, on the
ground that he was deprived of his liberty and about to be
VoL.. cxxxix-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

deprived of his life in violation of the Constitution of the
United States.
The petition set forth the finding of four indictments for
murder against petitioner, his arrest, trial, conviction and
sentence, and copies of the record were attached.
It was alleged that petitioner was deprived of his liberty
without due process of law, and denied the equal protection
of the laws, because the "Penal Code and Code of Criminal
Procedure" of the State of Texas, now and since July 24,
1879, recognized as law, under which his alleged trial whs
conducted, were not enacted by the legislature of the State of
Texas, and that the definitions and rules in the supposed codes
were materially different from the definitions and rules of procedure prevailing before their alleged adoption.
The petition then averred that the codes failed of enactment on these grounds in substance: That the bill which contained them was not referred to a committee and reported
on in the house, and was not read on three several days
in each house, as required by the state constitution; and
although the legislature dispensed with the reading of the
printed matter in e~xtenso, and provided for a consideration
on three several days, the bill was not so considered; that
the two houses of the legislature never agreed to or came to
a common legislative intent on the passage of the bill; that
neither house of the legislature kept a journal of its proceedings as required; that an abortive attempt was made to
dispense with enrolment, and there was no enrolment of the
bill, or any substitute therefor; that there is no record in
existence by which the accuracy of said statutes can be
verified; that the legislature attempted to delegate legislative
power to one Lyle, who proceeded to embody the alleged
codes into a printed book, the volume known as the " R evised
Statutes of Texas; " that the said volume is not a copy of or
identical with the bill said to have been 'passed embodying
them, but is widely variant therefrom, and from the original
bill on file in the office of the Secretary of State; that the
alleged law set out in the Revised Statutes was never concidemed or passed by the legislature of the State, nor consid-

IN RE DUNCAN.
Statement of the Case.

ered by the governor, and did not become a law; that the
printing, binding, distribution and codification of the volume.
known as the Revised Statutes was never duly or legally
authorized; and that the entire system of penal and civil
laws is involved.
It was further alleged that the Court of Appeals of Texas
was organized on the 6th of May, 1876, and that the judges
selected to sit upon the bench of that court were elected on
the third Tuesday in February, prior to the organization of
the court; that the present presiding judge of the court was
at that time elected and has since continuously succeeded himself; that the court is interested in the determination of the
questions involved, because the statutes supposed to have been
adopted attempted to make new and important provisions for
the exercise of jurisdiction and judicial power by the court,
and the civil statutes, which fixed the salaries of judges, determined the jurisdiction of certain judicial districts, 'Ind regulated the method of election of judges in the State, were
attempted to be enacted at the same time and mainly in the
same manner as above set forth; that a decision by any court
of Texas upon the questions presented would tend to disturb
the alleged and recognized legal system and code of laws of
said State, and cloud the title to office of the judges of the
State, and subject the court to severe criticism; and that
petitioner has cause to fear that the courts of Texas would be
unduly influenced to'his prejudice
The differences between the prior statutes and codes and
those of 1879, which petitioner claimed operated to abridge
his rights, privileges and immunities, as a citizen of the United
States, and to deprive him of due process of law, seem, as he
sets them up, to be that by the prior law the punishment of
murder in the first degree was death, and the jury could not
assess the punishment, so. that imprisonment could not be
inflicted if the crime were of that degree, whereas this could
be done under the later law; that by the prior law grand
juries were composed of not less than sixteefi persons, while
by the later:, twelve was the .number, though this was as
prescribed by sec. 13, art. V of the Constitution; that chal-

OCTOBER , TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

lenges to the array were allowed under the prior law for corruption in the summoning officer, and the wilful summoning
of jurors with the view of securing conviction, whereas, under
the later law, where the jurors called upon, the trial had been
selected by jury commissioners, in accordance with a law to
that effect enacted in 1876, the challenge to the array was not
allowed, but it was not averred that petitioner attempted to
challenge the array; that under the prior law the indictment
must charge the offence to have been "felonious" or done
"feloniously,' whereas, under the Codes of 1879, these words
might be omitted as they were in this instance; and that
under the prior law sheriffs were prohibited from summoning
any person as a juror found within the court-house or yard, if
jurors could be found elsewhere, but that some of the jurors
who tried him were so summoned, although other jurors could
have been found in the county.
The sheriff of Bexar County filed exceptions to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, and .assigned, among other reasons,
that the petition showed upon its face that the matters in controversy did not arise under the Constitution, laws or treaties
of the United States, nor did the adjudication or determination
of the same involve a construction thereof; but that the
matters arose solely under the constitution and laws of the
State of Texas, and their determination involved exclusively
the construction of the State constitution and laws; thatlit
did not appear from the petition that petitioner was restrained
of his liberty and illegally held in custody for an act done or
omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States, or of an
order, process or decree of a court thereof, or that he was in
custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law or treaty
of the United States; and that the Circuit Court had no power
or jurisdiction to release petitioner from custody, inasmuch as
he was held by a duly authorized and qualified officer of the
State, under and by virtue of a judgment of a court of the
State, in and by which he liad been tried, convicted and
adjudged guilty of a crime against the lavs of the State, as
appeared from the facts set forth in the petition. 'And the
respondent further excepted, upon the ground that the petition

IN RE DUNCAN.
Opinion of the Court.

was wholly inadequate and insufficient to authorize the relief
sought, because it appeared from its allegations that the petitioner, was arrested upon an indictment, charging him with
the commission of the crime of murder, in violation of the laws

of the State; that he Was arraigned and, duly tried and convicted of the crime as charged, and was by the court, in accordance with the verdict, sentenced, and was now held to
await the execution of thiat sentence, unless reversed by the
Court of Appeals of Texas, wherein the case is now pending
on appeal from the court below; and that even if the validity
of the present Penal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure of
Texas were legitimately assailed, yet the petition was wholly
insufficient, because there was no allegation that the provisions
of the old code, which in such an event would have remained
in force, were in the least dissimilar from the present, or that
lie would have been tried in a different way, or that he would
have or might have received a different or lesser punishment.
May 14, 1890, the Circuit Court, on hearing the application,
dismissed the petition and denied the writ. From that judgnent petitioner appealed to this court.

r. T. J. .Jrc2Tfln and .Afr. A. I. Garland for appellant.
.Mr.
T. J. .May was with them on the brief.
Mr. J. S.

I-ogg, Attorney General of the State of Texas, and

.Mr. Richard II. Iarrison,'Assistant Attorney General, for
appellee.
M

.

CHIEF

JUSTIcME F LLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
By segtion 1, Article V, of the constitution of Texas, the
judicial power of the State was vested "in one Supreme
Court, in a Court of Appeals, in District Courts, in county
courts, in commissioners' courts, in courts of justices. of the
peace and in such other courts as may be established by law."
By section 3, the .jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was
confined to civil cases; by section 6 it was provided that "the
Court of Alipeals shall have appellate jurisdiction, coexten-

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

sive with. the limits of the State in all criminal cases, of what
ever grade;" and by section 8, that "the District Courts
shall have original jurisdiction in criminal cases of the grade
of felony."
The District Court of Maverick County was created "nd
organized by an act of the legislature of Texas, approved
March 25, 1887. Laws of Texas, 1887, p. 46. It had jurisdiction to try the offence of which petitioner was accused, and
acquired jurisdiction over his person'and the offence charged
against him, through the indictment' and his arraignment
thereon. He was charged with the commission of the crime
of murder, which lie did not deny, was a crime against the
laws of Texas, and that the penalty therefor was death.
What he complained 'of in his application to the' Circuit
Court, was, that in the matter of indictment and trial he had
been subjected to the provisions of statutes which had not
been enacted in accordance with the state constitution.' The
District Court had jurisdiction and the power to determine
the law applicable to the case, and if it conimitted error in its
action, the remedy of petitioner was that of which he availed
himself, namely, an ,appeal to the Court of Appeals of the
State. Under these circumstances the Circuit- Court properly
declined to interfere. Be larte Ioyall, 117 U. S. 241, 245,
255; Exlarte Fonca, 117 U. S. 516. Nor does the contention
of bounsel in respect of the Court of Appeals justify any other
conclusion.
Under sections 5 and 6 of Article V of the state constitution, the Court of Appeals was created as a court of last resort
in criminal matters, its powers and jurisdiction defined, and
the salary, tenure of office and qualifications of its judges prescribed. The determination of the validity or invalidity of
the Civil or Penal Codes of 1879 would in no respect affect
that court in these particulars, if the extraordinary claim of
counsel in this regard were entitled to any consideration whatever in this proceeding.
Unquestionably it is a fundamental principle that no man
shall be judge in his own case, and the constitution of Texas
forbids any judge to sit in any case wherein he may be inter-

TIN RE DUNCAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ested, or where either of the parties may be connected with
him by affinity or consanguinity within such degree as may be
prescribed by law, or where he shall have been counsel in the
case; and specific provision is made for commissioning persons
to hear and determine any case or cases in place of members
of the Supreme Court or Appellate Court, who may be therein
thus disqualified. Const. Art. V, sec. 11. But no such question arises, or could arise, upon this record.
The constitution of the State of Texas was submitted by
the convention which framed it to a vote of the people, on
the third Tuesday of February, 1876, for their ratification or
rejection, by an ordinance passed for that purpose; and it was
provided that, if ratified, it should become the organic and
fundamental law of the State on the third Tuesday of April
following; and also that, at the same time that the vote was
taken upon the constitution, there should be a general election
held throughout the State for all state, district, county, and
precinct officers created and made elective by the instrument;
and that, if the constitution were ratified, certificates of election should be issued to the persons chosen. Jour. Const. Con.
772, 780.

The constitution was ratified, and the petition alleged that
the judges of the Court of Appeals were elected to their positions on the third Tuesday in February, 1876, and that the
Court of Appeals was organized on the 6th of May of that
year, from which counsel argues that the conclusion should
be drawn that the present members of that court are not even
officers de facto. The suggestion requires no observations
here.
We repeat, that as the District Court had jurisdiction over
the person of the petitioner and the offence with which he
stood charged, it had jurisdiction to determine the applicatory
law, and this involved the determination of whether particular
statutory provisions were applicable or not, and hence, if the
question were properly raised, whether a particular statute or
statutes, had been enacted in accordance witli the requirements of the state constitution;
It is unnecessary to enter upon an examination of the rul-.

.456

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ings in the different States upon the question whether a statute
duly authenticated, approved and enrolled can be impeached
by resort to the journals of the legislature or other evidence,
for the purpose of establishing that it was not passed in the
manner prescribed by the state constitution. The decisions
are numerous, and the results reached fail of uniformity. The
courts of the United States necessarily adopt the adjudication
of the state courts on the subject. South Ottawa v. Perkins,
94 U. S. 260; Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667; Railroad
Co. v. Georgia, 98, U. S. 359.
In Town of South Ottawa v. Perkins, where the existence
of a statute of Illinois was drawn 'in question, Mr. Justice
Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, said, 9- U. S.
268: "As a matter of propyriety and right, the decision of the
state courts on the question as to what are the laws of a State
is binding upon those of the United States. But the law
under consideration has been passed upon by the Supreme
Court of Illinois, and held to be invalid. This ought to have
been sufficient to have governed the action of the court below.
In our judgment it was not necessary to have raised an issue
on the subject, except by demurrer to the declaration. The
court is bound to know the law without taking the- advice of
a jury on the subject. When once it became the settled construction of the constitution of Illinois that no act can be
deemed a valid law unless, by the journals of the legislature,
it appears to have been regularly passed'by both houses, it
became the duty of the courts to take judicial notice of the
journal entries in that regard. The courts of Illinois may
decline to take that trouble, unless parties bring the matter to
their attention; but, on general principles, the question as to
the existence of a law is a judicial one, and must be so.regarded
by the courts of the United States. This'subject was 'fully discussed in Gardner v. The Collector, 6 Wall. 499. After examining the authorities, the court in that case lays down.this general
conclusion: I That whenever a question arises in a court of law
of the existence of a statute, or of the time when a statute took
effect, or of the precise terms of a statute, the judges who
,re called upon to decide it have a right to resort to any

IN RE DUNCAN.
Opinion of the Court.

source of information which in its nature is capable of conveying to the judicial mind a clear and satisfactory answer to
such question; always seeking, first, for that which in its
nature is most appropriate, unless the positive law has enacted
a different rule.' 6 Wall. 511. Of course, any particular State
may, by its constitution and laws, prescribe what shall be conclusive evidence of the existence or non-existence of a statute;
but, the question of such existence or non-existence being a
judicial one in its nature, the mode of ascertaining and using
that evidence must rest in the sound discretion of the court on
which the duty in any particular case is imposed."
And it has been often held by state courts that evidence of
the contents of legislative journals, which has not been produced and made part of the case in the court -below, will not
be considered on appeal. Illinois Central Railroad Co. v.
1l'ren, 43 Illinois, 77; Bedard v. Hall, 44 Illinois, 91; Grob
v. Cushman, 45 Illinois, 119; lensoldt v. Petersbutrg,63 Illinois, 157; Auditor v. iayeraft, 14 Bush, 284; Bradley v.
West, 60 'Missouri, 33; bleman. v. Dobbins, 8 Indiana, 156.
The distinction is recognized between matters of which the
court will take judicial cognizance "immediately, suo motu,"
and those which it will not notice "until its attention has been
formally called to them." Gresl. Eq. Ev. 292, 306. As to the
last, Mr. Gresley says: "It will not point out their applicability nor call for them, but if they are once put in by either
party it will investigate them, and will bring its own judicial
knowledge to supply or assist their proof. and will then adopt
them as its own evidence independently of the parties." Jones
v. United State.s. 137 U. S. 202, 216.
As a statute duly certified is presumed to have been duly
passed until the contrary appears, (a presumption arising in
favor of the law as printed by authority, and in a higher degree. of the original on file in the proper repository,) it would
seem to follow that wherever a suit comes to issue, whether in
the court below or the higher tribunal, an objection resting
upon the failure of the legislature to comply with the provisions of the constitution. should be so presented that the
adverse party may have opportunity to controvert the nMlega-

45-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tions and to prove by the record due conformity with the constitutional requirements. People v. Supervisors of Chenango,
8 N. Y. (4 Selden) 317, 325.
By the constitution of Texas, each house of the legislature
must keep a journal of its proceedings and publish the same,
and the yeas and nays of either house on any question shall,
at the desire of three members present, be entered on the
journals, (Art. III, see. 12;) no law shall be passed except by
bill, and no bill shall have the force of law until it has been
.read on three successive days in each house and free discussion
allowed thereon, but in case of imperative public ngcessity,
(which necessity shall be stated in a preamble or the body of
the bill,) four-fifths of the house in which the bill may be
pending may suspend this rule, the yeas and 'nays being taken
on the question of suspension, and entered upon the journal,
(sees. 30, 32;) no bill shall be considered unless it has first been
referred to a committee and reported thereon; and no bill
shallbe passed which has not been presented, referred and reported at least three days before final adjournment, (see. 37;)
the presiding officer of each house shall in the presence.of the
house over which he presides, sign all bills, and the fact of
signing shall be entered on the journals, (see. 38;) no law
passed by the legislature, except the general appropriation
act, shall take effect or go into force until ninety days after
the adjournment of the session at which it was enacted, unless
in case of an emergency the legislature by a vote of two-thirds
otherwise direct, said vote to be taken by yeas and nays and
entered upon the journals, and the emergency to be expressed
in a preamble or the body of the act. (See. 39.)
By the law prior to 1876, the journals of the respective
houses were required to be furnished to the public printer for
the purpose of being printed,'by the clerical officers of each
house, (Paschall's Dig. § 4872;) and the Secretary of State
was requited to distribute the printed journals, (Id. § 5092;)
and similar provision was made by the act of June 27, 1876,
(Laws Texas, 1876, p. 36,) as also by the Revised Statutes of
1879, (Rev. Stats. p. 577, § 4012 et seg.) When printed, the manuscript journals were to be returned and filed in the archives

IN RE DUNCAN.
Opinion of the Court.

of the legislature. Paschall, § 4872; Laws Texas, 1876, p. 36.
It was the duty of the Secretary of State to keep, publish and
distribute the laws. Paschall's Dig. §§ 5091, 5092, 4872 et se.;
Laws Texas, 1876, pp. 35, 313; Rev. Stats. 1879, pp. 394, 577,
§ 2722 et sey.
The Revised Statutes of Texas containing the codes in question were officially published in 1879, with the certificate of
the Secretary of State as to the date when the law enacting
them went into effect, and that the volume was a true and
correct copy of the original bills on file in his department.
For eleven years prior to the conviction of Duncan, these
codes had been recognized and observed by the people of
Texas; had been amended by the legislature, and republished
under its authority; and their provisions had been repeatedly
construed and enforced by the courts as the law of the land.
In Usener v. The State, 8 Texas, App. 177, the validity of
the Penal Code in respect of its adoption by the legislature
was passed upon and the law upheld; and that case was
quoted with approval in Ex parte Tipton, 28 Texas, App.
438, a decision rendered as late as February, 1890. This decision ruled that an authenticated statute should be regarded
as the best evidence that the required formalities were observed
in its passage, and that the courts would not exercise the
power of going behind it and inquiring into the manner of its
enactment; and Blessing v. Galveston, 42 Texas, 641; Central
Railway Co. v. Hearn,32 Texas, 546; and -DayCo. v. The State,
68 Texas, 526, were cited in support of the proposition. In one
of these cases it was decided that the judicial department
should not disregard and treat as a nullity an act of the legislature, because the journals' of one or both houses failed to
show the passage of the bill in strict conformity with all the
directions contained in the constitution; and in another, that
it would be conclusively presumed that a bill had been referred
to a committee and reported on before its passage, as required
by the constitution.
The language of the court in State v. Swift, 10 Nevada, 176,
was quoted approvingly in Usener v. The State, and repeated
in Fx parte Ti#pton: "Where an act has 'heen passed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

legislature, signed by the proper officers of each house, approved by the governor, and filed in the office of the secretary
of state, it constitutes a record which is conclusive evidence of
the passage of the act as enrolled. Neither the journals kept
by the legislature, nor the bill as originally introduced, nor the
amendments attached to it, nor paror evidence, can be received
in order to show that an act of tie legislature, properly enrolled, authenticated, and deposited with the secretary of state,
did not become a law. This court, for the purpose of informing itself of the existence or terms of a law, cannot look
beyond the enrolled act, certified to by those officers who are
charged by the constitution with the duty of certifying and
with-the duty of deciding what laws have been enacted."
In Usener's case, the court declared that, although not feeling in duty bound to do so, yet it had nevertheless examined
the journals of the two houses, with regard to the bill entitled
"An act to adopt and establish a -Penal Code and a. Code of
Criminal Procedure for the State of Texas," and arrived at
the conclusion that the act had received the legislative sanction
in strict- conformity with the constitution, so that if driven to
such examination, the court was unhesitatingly of opinion that
there would be no difficulty in the way of establishing that
fact b them in every essential particular.
It is insisted that the extent of the disregard of constitutional
requirements was not fully- developed in that case, and that its
authority was .overthrown by Iunt v. The State, 22 Texas,
App. 396. But we are not called on to conclude how this
may be or to anticipate the ultimate judgment of the courts
of Texas, if they consider the controversy still an open one.
If the question of the invalidity of the codes was presented
to the District Court of Maverick County, it must be assumed
that it adjudged in favor of their validity, and as the case has
been carried to the Court of Appeals, that it will there be
adjudicated in accordance with the law of the State, and when
so determined it is entirely.clear that that adjudication could
not be-reviewed bythe Circuit'Cburt, or by us, on habeas copus.
And the result must be the same if the question has not been
raised by the petitioner in the state courts.

IN RiE DUNCAN.

461

Opinion of the Court.

We may remark in conclusion that the magnitude of the
operation of the objection to these statutes does not affect the
principles by which the result is reached. This is not the case
of a system of laws attacked- upon the ground of their invalidity as the product of revolution.
By the Constitution, a republican form of government is
guaranteed to every State in the Union, and the distinguishing
feature of that form is the right of the people to choose their
own officers for governmental administration, and pass their
own laws in virtue of the legislative power reposed in representative bodies, whose legitimate acts may be said to be those
of the people themselves; but, while the people are thus the
source of political power, their. governments, National and
State, have been limited by written constitutions, and they
have themselves thereby set bounds to their own power, as
against the sudden impulses of mere majorities.
In .Lutlter v. Borden, 7 How. 1, it was held that the question
which of the two opposing governments of Rhode Island,
namely, the charter government, or the government established
by a voluntary convention, was the legitimate one, was a question for the determination of the political department, and
when that department had decided, the courts were bound to
take notice of the decision and follow it; and also that, as the
Supreme Court of Rhode Island, holding constitutional authority not in dispute, had decided the point, the well-settled rule
applied that the courts of the United States adopt and follow
the decisions of the state courts on questions which concern
merely the constitution and laws of the State. Mr. Webster's
argument in that case took a wider sweep, and contained a
masterly statement of the American system of government,
as recognizing.that the people are the source of all political
power, but that as the exercise of governmental powers immediately by the people themselves is impracticable, they mu..t
be exercised by representatives of the people; that the bab*s
of representation is suffrage; that the right of suffrage mubt
be protected and its exercise prescribed by prev'ious law, and
the results ascertained by some certain rule; that through its
regulated exercise each man's power tells in the constitiution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

of the government and in the enactment of laws; that the
people limit themselves in regard to the qualifications of
electors and the qualifications of the elected, and to certain
forms for the conduct of elections; that our liberty is the
liberty secured by the regular action of popular power, taking
place and ascertained in accordance with legal and authentic
modes; and that the Constitution and laws do not proceed on
the ground of revolution or any right of revolution, but on the
idea of results achieved by orderly action under the authority
of existing governments, proceedings outside of which are not
contemplated by our institutions. Webster's Works, vol. 6,
p. 217.
Discursive as are the views of petitioner's counsel, no violation of these fundamental principles in this instance is or could
be suggested.
The State of Texas is in full possession of its faculties as a
member of the Union, and its legislative, executive and judicial
departments are peacefully operating by the orderly and settled
methods prescribed by its fundamental law. Whether certain
statutes have or have not binding force, it is for the State to
determine, and that determination in itself involves no infraction of the Constitution of the United States, and raises no
Federal question giving the courts of the United States jurisdiction.
We cannot perceive that petitioner is being otherwise dealt
with than according to the law of the land.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

LEEPER v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1239. Argued December 17, 18, 1890.-Decided March 30, 1891.

It

must be regarded as settled that a petition for a writ of error forms nd
part of the record upon which action here is taken.
To give this court jurisdiction to review the judgiaent of a state court

