OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

election in controversy did not compare the polls at the courthouse, but counted the votes in a private house in the town in
which the court-house was situated; and the court held that,
the returns having been made to the court-house, and the
county court being in session, the counting of the votes at a
private house in the town was a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of the statute, and ionstituted no ground, in the
absence of all fraud or misconduct in comparing the polls and
counting the votes, for setting aside the election.
Laws which create crime ought to be so explicit that all
men subject to their penalties may know what acts it is their
duty to avoid. United States v. Shap, Pet. C. 0. 118. Before a man can be punished, his case must be plainly and
unmistakably within the statute. Uniited States v. Lacher,
134 U. S. 624, 628. We are of opinion, thereforethat questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 must be answered in the negative, no
fraud being averred in the indictment, and no intent to affect
the election or its result, and there being no allegation that
the election or its result was affected.
This disposition of questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 requires that
the demurrer to the indictment be sustained, and makes it
unnecessary to answer question S.
Questions 1 and 2 4re not answered because. they are too
general. Questions 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are answered in the
negative, and question 8 is not answered because it is unnecessary to answer it.

EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v. FRAZIER.
ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

STATE

OF TENNESSEE.

No. 1407. Submitted March 9, 1891.-Decided March 23, 1891.

When the pleadings in the trial court of a State, the assignment of error
in the Supreme Court of the State, the opinion of the latter court and
its original decree present no federal question, and two (lays later on

EAST TENN. &c. RAILWAY v. FRAZIER.
Opinion of the Court.
motion- of counsel the decree is modified so as to show that a federal
question was presented by counsel and decided adversely to their contention, there is color for a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction
here.
When a charter power is once fully exerciied by a corporation, and exhausted, it is, in reipect of further contracts and rights of the corporation, as if it had never been granted.
The plaintiff in error having exhausted the power to mortgage its property
given by the act of 1847, before, its property was mortgaged in 1881, the
latter mortgage was made under the then existing laws of Tennessee.
MOTioN

to dismiss or affirm.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
21r. .enry H. Ingersoll for the motion.
-Mlr. Willianz .7f. Baxter opposing.
Mn. JusTi'E BR.WER. delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is submitted on a motion to dismiss or affirm. The
facts are these:
The State of Tennessee in 1847 (Acts of 1847-48, page 195)
granted a charter of incorporation to the East Tennessee and
Virginia Railroad Company. In 1869; this corporation was
consolidated with the East Tennessee and Georgia Railroad
Company, under the name of the East Tennessee, Virginia and
Georgia Railroad Company. This consolidated company, in
1881, executed a mortgage, which in 1886 was foreclosed, and
the plaintiff in error, the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railway Company, as purchaser, took possession of the
franchises and property. After this foreclosure and sale, petitions in the nature of creditor's bills were filed in behalf of
the defendants in error, judgment creditors of the railroad
company, to subject its property in the hands of the purchaser,
the railway company, to the satisfaction of 'their judgmentsThese judgments were, in point of time, subsequent to the
mortgage of 1881, and the question presented was, whether
they were superior liens. Such superiority Was claimed under
and by virtue of a proviso to section 3, of chapter 72f of the
laws of Tennessee of 1877, page 92, which reads: "And proVOL. cxxxx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

vided further, that no railroad company shall have power
under this act or any of the laws of this State, to give or
create any mortgage or other kind of lien on its railway property in this State, which shall be valid and binding against
judgments and decrees and executions therefrom for timber
furnished and work and labor done on, or for damages done
to persons and property in the operation of, its railroad in
this State." By final decree of the chancery court, approved
by the Supreme Court of the State, priority of lien was given
to the appellees' judgments, and satisfaction decreed out of
the property. Of this adjudication of priority; plaintiff in
error complains, and presents as a federal question the proposition that the act of 1877, giving priority to certaifl judgments over mortgage liens, was an impairment of the con
tractual rights created by the act of 1847. The 15th section
of that act contained this provision: "The said company may
at any time increase its capital to a sum sufficient to complete
the said road, and to stock it with everything necessary to give
it full operation and effect, either by opening books for new
stock, or by selling new stock, or by borrowing money on the
credit of the company, and on the mortgage of its charter and
works." And the contention is, that this section granted the
right to create an ab~olute first lien by mortgage, which could
not be taken away by subsequent statutes giving priority to
any judgments or claims of date later than the mortgage.
The claim that the act of 1877 was in impairment of contractual rights given by a prior act of the legislature, applicable to
the corporation mortgagor, presents doubtless a federal question; and the first matter for our consideration is, whether
there was color for the motion to dismiss. It appears that in
the pleadings filed by the railway corporation, responsive to
the petitions of the appellees, the unconstitutionalty of the
act of 1877 was alleged; but such unconstitutionality was not
predicated on any provision of the United States Constitution,
but solely on those of the constitution of the State. We quote
from the answer to one of the petitions, which, in this respect,
is as full and complete as any:
"Respondent is advised and will insist that the act of IS77,

EAST TENN. &c. RAILWAY v. FRAZIER.
Opinion of the Court.

under which petitioners seek to pursue and appropriate respondent's property to the payment of their claims, and especially
the provision of the 3d section of said act, is unconstitutional
and void, because said act embraces more than one subject,
and the proviso in section 3 aforesaid and the subject of said
proviso is not expressed in the title of said act, and because
said act is not in compliance with article 2, section 17. of
the constitution of this State. And therefore petitioners have
no warrant of law for asking satisfaction of their claims from.
the property mentioned in the original bill."

So upon the pleadings no federal question was presented.
Not only that, but in the assignment of error, which was made
when the case was taken to the Supreme Court of the State,
no reference was made to any federal question; and the unconstitutionality of the act was rested solely upon its supposed
conflict with.the state constitution. Further, in the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the State, reported in 88 Tennessee,
138, which is an elaborate and careful discussion of the questions in the case, the alleged conflict between the act and the
state 'constitution is fully noticed; but nothing is said about
any supposed infringement of the federal Constitution. When
on October 26, 1889, the decree of the Supreme Court was
entered, affirming the ruling of the chancellor as to the liability of the property, the points decided were specifically stated
in it, and in them no reference is made to any federal question. Two days thereafter an entry appears on the records
of that court, stating that upon application of counsel for the
railway company the decree is modified so as to show that
upon the argument of the case the question of the invalidity
of the act of 1877, by reason of the inhibition of the Federal Constitution, was presented by counsel, and that the decision of the court was adverse to such contention. Upon
these facts, we think there was color for the motion to dismiss.
The pleadings in the trial court the assignment of error, the
opinion of the Supreme Court and the original decree of that
court, contain no reference to any federal' question. The
invalidity of the act of 1877, in all these proceedings, is placed
upon a supposed conflict with the state constitution. Obvi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ously that was the substantial matter litigated. The fact that
two days after the decision the presentation of a federal question was recognized by the Supreme Court, is not to be taken
as a declaration that the federal question was a principal
one -

one which it had theretofore ignored -

but rather im-

plies that it was a subordinate and incidental matter, which,
though noticed by counsel, was not made the stress of the
argument or the burden of complaint. As such a claim had
been made, although in a subordinate and incidental way, and
although it was a matter which had not arrested its attention,
that court, with a delicate sense of justice, caused., a statement
to be entered of the presentation of this federal question, in
order that any rights of review which the railway company
might have by reason thereof should not be lost to it. Recognizing the fact that thereby a federal question is presented,
it seems so obvious that it was not the bone of contention, the
principal matter litigated, but only put into the record for the
purpose of an appeal, that it must be adjudged there was colorfor the motion to dismiss. While that motion must be denied,
the motion to affirm is presented for consideration, and upon
that we have no doubt.
. Whatever special rights of mortgage were given by the act
of 184.7 were exhausted. That special right was to increase
its capital by the issue of bonds secured by mortgage to a sum
sufficient to complete its road, and stock it with everything to&
give it full operation. It appears that the road authorized by
this charter was completed, equipped and in full operation
more than twenty-five years before the mortgage of -1881 and
long before the consolidation of 1869. Of course when a
charter power is once exhausted it is, in respect to further contracts and rights, as though it had never been granted. So,
in 1881, when the railroad company executed its mortgage it
was not by virtue of this special grant of power, but by virtue
of the general power given by subsequent statutes, and the
exercise of such general power must be held subordinate tothe terms accompanying its grant. Neither is it of any significance that by legislation prior to 1877 a general power to
mortgage had been given to railroad corporations. Until a

WALTER A. WOOD CO. v. SKINNER.
Statement of the Case.

general power granted to corporations has been exercised, the
terms and conditions under which it may be exercised are subject to legislative control. It may change or modify them as
it sees fit, and the law in force at the time the mortgage is
executed, with all the conditions and limitations it imposes, is
the law which determines the force and effect of the mortgage.
That law in this case was the law of 1877, which subordinated
the mortgage to the lien of subsequent judgments, for claims
of the nature of those held by appellees.
We see no error in the ruling of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, and it is therefore
Affirmed.

WALTER A.. WOOD MOWING AND REAPING MACHINE COMPANY 9). SKINNER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 1235. Submitted March 9, 1891. -Decided

March 23, 1891.

In determining the ground upon which a judgment in a state court was
rendered, this court may refer to the opinion of that court.
When it does not appear upon what ground the highest court of a State
placed its judgment, and the judgment may be supported without deciding a federal question, this court is without jurisdiction of it in error.

THis action was originally brought in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York by Skinner, the defendant in error, for
a breach of contract on the part of defendant (plaintiff. in
error,) in refusing to account and pay for the use of a certain
patented invention, known as an improvement in oil-hole
covers for journals, described in letters patent No. 124,092,
and reissue of the same, No. 10,064. The case was referred
to a referee, who found substantially the following facts in his
report:
1st. That the plaintiff and defendant entered into an agreement whereby it was agreed on the part of the plaintiff that
defendant should have the exclusive right of using plaintiff's

