OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in this case, independently of any such consideration, the
question whether the place where the plaintiff stood on the
wharf was reasonably safe was one of the questions to be determined by the jury, depending on common knowledge and
observation, and requiring no special training or experience to
decide, and upon which therefore no opinions of witnesses
were admissible. .Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. KEdlogg,
94 U. S. 469; Tkite v. Ballou, 8 Allen, 408; Simmons v. l.ew
Bedford Steamboat Co., 97 Mass. 361.
Jdgment affirmed.

SELMA, ROME AND DALTON RAILROAD
PATY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT O
No. 12.

COM-

CLAIMS.

Argued March 25, 26, 1891.-Decided April 6, 1891.

In an action against the United States to recover for amounts due certain
mail contractors under the appropriation-in the sundry civil appropriation
act of March B, 1877, 19 Stat. 362, c. 105, which provided that " any such
claims which have been paid by the Confederate States government shall
not again be paid;" the burden of proof is on the plaintiff tO show that
his claim was not of the excepted class.
Whether, that appropriation having been covered into the Treasury, a
claimant can maintain suit under that act in the Court of Claims without
further lgislation, is a question which the court has not deemed it necessary to consider.

APPA.L

from

the Court of Claims where the judgment was

against the claimant. The case is stated in the opinion.
b'". George A. Zing for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cotton for appellee.
MR. JusTice

HARLAx

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff, the Selma, Rome and Dalton Railroad Company, seeks in this action to recover the sum of $5915.80, which

SELMA, ROME &c. RAILROAD v. UMNTED STATES. 561
Opinion of the Court.

is alleged to be the balance due on a written contract executed
July 10th, lS5S, between the United States and the Alabamq.
and Tennessee Rivers Railroad Company, an, Alabama corporation, whereby that corporation was to receive for transporting the mail between Selma and 'Taladega, in that State, the
sum of $12,000 per year, payable quarterly, for the term commencing July 1, 1858, and ending May 31st, 1862. By that
contract the Postmaster General was authorized to dispense
with the service entirely, if required by the public interest,
allowing one month's extra pay upon the amount deducted.
The United States disputes its liability to the plaintiff in any
sum whatever.
The Alabama and Tennessee Rivers Railroad Company performed the services required by the above contract up to the
31st of May, 1861, 6n which day the mail service on its road
was discontinued by the Postmaster General of the United
States; and such service passed, on and .after June 1, 1861under the direct control of, and was performed by the railroad
company for the Confederate government.
By an act of the Confederate Congress, approved August 30,
1861, entitled "An act to collect for. distribution the moneys
remaining in the several post offices of the Confederate States
at the time the postal service was taken in charge by said government," it was provided:
"§ 1. That it shall be the duty of the Postmaster General
to collect all moneys due from the several postmasters within
the Confederate States, and which they had not paid over at
the time the Confederate States took the charge of the postal
service, and the several postmasters are hereby required to.
account to the general post office of this government underthe same rules, regulations and penalties that were prescribed
by the law Under which said moneys were received.
"§ 2. The moneys so received shall be kept separate, and
distinct from the other funds of the Post Office Department,
and shall constitute a fund for thepro rata payment of claims.
for postal service which accrued before the Postmaster General
took charge of the postal service in the States respectively
comprising.this Confederacy, as may hereafter be provided.
VOL. CXXXIX---3G

562 "

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"§ 3. It shall be the duty of the Postmaster General to make
proclamation that all persons who are citizens of the Confederate States of America, and who may have rendered postal
service in any of the States of this Confederacy, under contracts or appointments made by the United States government
before the Confederate States government took charge of such
service, shall present their claims to this department, verified
and established according to such rules as he shall prescribe,
bkr a time therein to be set forth, not less than six months, and
requiring the claimant to state, under oath, how much has
been [paid] and the date of such payments, on account of the
contract or appointment under which said claim occurred, and
what fund or provision has been set apart or made for the
further payment of the whole or any portion of the balance of
such claim by the government of the United States, or of any
of the States; and they shall also state, on oath, whether they
performed- fully the service according to their contracts or
appointments during the time for which they claim pay, and
if not, what partial service they did perform, and what deductions have been made from their pay, so far as they know, on
account of any failure, or partial failure, to perform such service; and the Postmaster General shall, as soon as he shall
have collected such moneys from said postmasters, and ascertained the amount of claims against the Post Office Department
and the amount received respectively by the claimants as aforesaid, and the provisions, if any, -for future payment, mdke a
report of the same, so that future action may be taken thereon
as respects the distribution.
"§ 4. All claims for postal service required to be presented
by this bill shall be barred as against this fund, unless presented
within six months after the proclamation of the Postmaster
General shall have been made."
By another act of the Confederate Congress, approved September 27, 1862, entitled "An act to provide for the payment
of sums ascertained to be due for postal service to citizens of
the Confederate States'by the Postmaster General," it was
provided:- "The Congress of the Confederate States of Am'erica do enact; That the Postmaster General of the Confederate

SELAIA, ROME &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES. 563
Opinion of the Court.

States do proceed to pay to the several persons, or their lawfully authorized agents or representatives, the sums respectively found due and owing to them for postal servicd
rendered in any of the States of this Confederacy, under contracts or appointments made by the Unitea States government before the Confederate States government took charge
of such service, as the said sums have been audited and ascertained by him under the provisions of an act entitled 'An
Act to collect .for distribution the moneys remaining in the
several post offices of the Confederate States at the time the
postal service was taken in charge by said government,'
approved the 30th of August, 1861; but the sums authorized
by this act to be paid are only the balances found due after
all proper deductions shall have been made on account of
previous payments made by the United States, or any of the
States, or of available provisions made in whole or in part for
such payment by said government, or of any of the States,
and after making all proper deductions for failures or partial
failures to perform the service according to their several contracts or appointments during the time for Which they claim
pay: Provided, That the provisions of this act shall only.
extend to loyal citizens of the Confederate States."
The Congress of the United States, by joint resolution,
passed March 2, 1867, prohibited the payment of any account,
claim or demand against the government to any person not
known to have been opposed to the rebellion and in favor of
its suppression. 14 Stat. 571. This resolution was' carried
forward into section 3480 of the Revised Statutes, which provides: "It shall be unlawful for any officer, to pay any
account, claim or demand against the United States which
accrued or existed prior to the 13th day of April, 1861, in
favor of any person who promoted, encouraged or in any
manner sustained the late rebellion, or in favor of any person
who during such rebellion was not known to be opposed
thereto, and distinctly in favor of its suppression; and no
pardon heretofore granted, or hereafter to be granted, shall
authorize, the payment of such account, claim or demand,
until this .section is modified or repealed. But this section

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion: of the Court.

shall not be construed to prohibit the payment of claims
founded upon contracts made by any of the departments,
where such claims were. assigned or contracted to be assigned
prior to the first day of April, 1861, to the creditors of such
contractors, loyal citizens of loyal States, in payment of debts
incurred prior to the first day of March, 1861."
B3y an act of the legislature of Alabama, approved February
8, 1867, the consolidation of the Dalton and Jacksonville
Railroad Company and the Georgia and Alabama Railroad
Company, corporations of Georgia, with the Alabama and
Tennessee. Rivers Railroad Company, under the name of the
Selma, Rome and Dalton Railroad Company, was ratified,
and the consolidated company invested with all the rights,
functions, powers and privileges of the Alabama and Tennessee Rivers Railroad Company.
The petition alleges that neither the plaintiff nor any one
for it ever received payment for services rendered under the
above contract, during the period from January 1, 1861, to
Iay 31, 1861, inclusive, except a small amount (found by the
court below to be $95.19) or any compensation for the discontinuance of that contract. For the reasons set forth in the
opinion of the Court of Claims in Blount, Adm've, v. United
States, 21 C. C1. 274, this action was dismissed.
The present suit is based upon a clause in the act of Congress, approved March 3, 1877, making _appropriations for
sundry civil expenses of the government for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1878. 19 Stat. 344, 362, c. 105. No right is
asserted to recover independently of that act. The clause in
question provides: "That the sum of three hundred and
seventy-five thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, be appropriated to: pay the amount due to mail
contractors for mail service performed in the States of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas,
Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia in the years eighteen
:hundred and fifty-nine,'eighteen hundred and sixty, eighteen
hundred and sixty-one, and before said States respectivrcly
engaged in %yaragainst the United States; and the provisions

SELMA, ROME &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES. 565
Opinion of the Court.

of [section] three thousand four hundred and eighty of Revised
Statutes of the United States shall not be applicable to the
payments therein authorized: Provided, That any such claims
which have been paid by the Confederate States government
shall not again be paid."
We have seen that by the act of the Confederate Congress
of August 30th, 1861, provision was made for the collection
from postmasters within the Confederate States of all moneys
due. from them and not paid over to the United States at
the time the insurrectionary government took charge of the
postal service within the territory subject to its control; the
sums, so collected, to constitute a separate and distinct fund for
the pro r'ata payment of claims against the United States for
postal service accruing before the control of that service was
assumed by the Confederate States. And, by the Confederate enactment of September 27, 1862, the moneys so collected were directed to be used in paying "to loyal citizens of
the Confederate States" having unpaid claims for postal
services rendered in any of the Confederate States "under
contracts or appointments made by the United States government before the Confederate States government took
charge of such service." It is not disputed that the claim
here in suit is of the class for the payment of which the Confederate enactment of 1862 made provision. It is stated in
Blount, Ad'r,
v. United States, 21 C. Cl. 274, 279, that
$502,017.19 were paid out by the Confederate government,
under the above acts of 1861 and 1862, but to whom did not
appear. In the present case no such fact appears. Nor does
it appear by direct, positive proof in this case that any claims
of that character were ever paid by the Confederate government to any one.
It is, however, contended by the United States that the act
of March 3, 1877, embraces only claims that appear not to
have been paid by the Confederate government. The contention of the plaintiff is that it is entitled to judgment, by force
of that act, upon proof of services rendered by it, unless the
United States shows, affirmatively, that its claim was paid by
the Confederate States government. These contentions rest

OCTOBER TERMT, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

upon radically different interpretations of the act of 1877.
We are of opinion that Congress intended to provide for the
payment of only such claims as appeared not to have been
paid by the Confederate government. As the claims described
in that act had been, at the date of its passage, outlawed by
limitation or by express enactment forbidding their payment,
and as Congress must be presumed to bave passed that act
with knowledge of the Confederate legislation of 1861 and
1862, we cannot believe that it was intended to impose upon
the United States the burden of showin'g, affirmatively, that
such claims had been paid by the Confederate government.
The object of the proviso, "that any such claims which have
been paid by the Confederate States government shall not
again be paid," was to indicate the class of cases which the
act embraced. One of the objects of a proviso is to qualify
or restrain the generality of the enacting, clause, "or to exelude some possible ground of misinterpretation of it as extending to cases not intended by the legislature to be brought within
its purview." .Mlinis v. United States, 15 Pet. 423, 445. If
Congress had simply declared- without embodying the declaration in a ".proviso "- that all claims of the kind described,
not previously paid by the Confederate government, should be
recognized and paid, it would never occur to any one that the
United States assumed the burden of showing that such
claims had been thus paid. The act of 1877 was, in effect, an
invitation to all having claims of .the class described in it,
which had not been paid by the Confederate States, to present
them for payment out of the sum appropriated by it for that purpose, leaving those seeking the benefit of the act to show that
their claims were of that class. Besides, as the fact of payment or non-payment by the Confederate government was
peculiarly within the knowledge of the claimant or within his
power -if

in the power of any one - to establish, it may well

be supposed that Congress intended that a claimant, as a condition of payment by the United States, should show that his
demand belonged to the class for which the act of 1877 provided. But there was no proof on the subject by the plaintiff,
nor does it appear, if that fact were material, that such proof

SELMA, ROME &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES. 567
Opinion of the Court.

was impossible. It prepared the case and went to a hearing
upon the theory that it was entitled to judgment, upon proof
simply of the services rendered, unless the United States
showed that the claim in suit had been, in fact, paid by the
Confederate government. We cannot accept that interpretation of the act.
If, however, the burden of proof was on the United States
to show that the plaintiff's claim had been paid by the Confederate government, it would not follow that the plaintiff is
entitled to judgment. Proof of the Confederate legislation
of 1861 and 1862, under which "loyal citizens of, the Confederate States" were assured of payment out of moneys belonging to the United States, and in the hands of its appointees,
at the time the Confederate government assumed control of
the postal service within the country over which it exercised
authority - which moneys the Confederate government undertook to collect for distribution among those loyal to it -in
connection with the fact that, when the Confederate acts of
1861 and 1862 were passed, the plaintiff was carrying the mail
for the Confederate government, and, therefore, was in a position to enjoy the benefit of its legislation, made a primafacie
case which required the plaintiff to disclose such facts'as were
peculiarly within its knowledge, and thereby make some showing that its claim had not been paid; a fact negative in form,
but capable of proof affirmative in its nature by the party who
knew, or could easily ascertain, the truth of the case. While
the general rule is that the burden of proof is where the
pleadings place it, namely, upon the party against whom judgment must go, if no evidence whatever is introduced, its application is often affected by circumstances. "From the very
nature of the question in dispute," says Mr. Best, "all, or
nearly all, the evidence that could be adduced respecting it
must be in the possession of, or be easily attainable by, one of
the contending parties, who accordingly could at once put an
end to litigation by producing that evidence; while requiring
his adversary to establish his case, because the affirmative lay
on him, or because there was a presumption of law against
him, would, if not amounting to injustice, at least be produc-

OCTOBER TERlI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tive of expense and delay. In order to prevent this, it has
been established as a general rule of evidence, that the burden
,of proof lies on the person who wishes to support his case by
a particular fact which lies more peculiarly within his knowledge, or of which he is supposed to be cognizant." Principles
of Evidence, § 274; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 79; Starkie Ev. 589. The
books of account kept by the Alabama and Tennessee Rivers
RIailroad Company, or some one connected with that corporation while it was serving the Confederate government, might
throwlight upon the question of payment. The presumption
is that the plaintiff has possession of those -books, and that, in
connection with the evidence of those who kept them, they
would disclose whether the original contractor had or had not
been paid by the Confederate government out of the moneys
of the United States which it appropriated. It did not produce them. And there is no finding inconsistexit with the presumption that it was entirely within its power to show, if such
were the fact, that its claim had not been paid by the Confederate government. So that the reasonable inference from the
that the burden of proof was upon
facts found -assuming
the United States-is, that the plaintiff's claim was not of the
class for the payment of which Congress legislated in 1877.
It appears from the finding of facts that shortly after the passage of the act of 1877 the Secretary of the Treasury issued an
order that no paymefnts be made out of the appropriation of
$375,000 until all claims covered by the terms of the act should
be received and adjusted, and that if the appropriation proved
to be insufficient to pay all so adjusted, they should be paid pro
rata. In consequence of that order no claims were adjusted
within two years after the date of that act, and the appropriation was covered into the Treasury under the requirement of
the fifth section of the legislative, executive and judicial
appropriation act of June 20, 1874. 18 Stat. 85, c. 328.
Whether, under these circumstances, a claimant under the act
of 1877 could maintain a suit in the Court of Claims against
the United States, withofit further legislation by Congress, or
without a new appropriation, is a question which, in view of
,the disposition of the case upon other grounds, we have not
Judgment afflrmed.
deemed it necessary to consider.

