HOWARD v. STILLWELL & BIERCE M'F'G CO.

199

Statement of the Case.

HOWARD v. STILLWELL AND BIERCE MANlUFACTURING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 180. Argued January 30, 1891.-Decided March 16, 1891.

The failure to note an objection to a deposition, based upon the form of the
commission or the manner of executing it, when the deposition is taken,
or to present the objection by a motion to suppress, or by some other
notice before the trial begins, will be held to be a waiver of it.
In an action to recover the contract price for putting up mill machinery,
anticipated profits of the defendant resulting from grinding wheat into
flour and selling the same, had the mill been completed at the date specified in the contract, cannot be recovered by way of damages for delay
in putting it up.
As a general rnle, subject to well established qualifications, anticipated
profits, prevented by the breach of a contract, are not recoverable as
damages for such breach; but, where such profits, which would have
been realized had the contract been performed, and which have been prevented by its breach, are not open to the objection of uncertainty or
remoteness, or where, from the express or implied terms of the contract
itself, or the special circumstances under which it was made, it may be
reasonably presumed that they were within the intent and mutual understanding of both parties at the time it was entered into, they are so
recoverable.

THIS was an action at law by the Stillwell and Bierce Manufacturing Company, an Ohio corporation, having its principal
place of business at Dayton in that State, against W. C. Howard, S. T. Stratton and J. :Rauch, citizens of Texas, to recover
a balance due on a contract in writing entered into between
the parties heretoi March 23, 1885, for the reconstruction by
the company of a flour-mill owned by the defendants in Dallas,
Texas.
The contract provided, among other things, that the party
of the first part (the company) should reconstruct the mill of
the defendants, upon the roller system, by placing therein
certain specified machinery, and "all other machinery and
material necessary to erect and complete a flour mill of two

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

hundred barrels' capacity in twenty-four hours, according to
plans to be made by the party of the first part, and to be
placed by them in the mill-house to be built by the party of
the second part in Dallas, Texas; party of the second part to
furnish proper motive power to drive said machinery, and to
extend engine-shaft into basement of mill-house to a point
to be hereafter designated by party of first part, and not to
exceed eight feet inside of basement wall. Party of the second
part are to build all stone or brick foundations for machinery,
and'frame all openings in floor for packers, upright shafts, etc.
The party of the first part agrees to have the mill completed
and ready to run on or before July 15, 1885, provided party
of thesecond part shall have mill-house ready by June 1, 1885.
The said party of the first part guarantees that said mill when
completed shall have a capacity for from two hundred or more
barrels of flour in twenty-four hours; and that the result shall
be equal to those of any of the roller or other modern systems
6f milling now in use in this country using the same grades of
wheat. The said party of the first part shall perform all the
millwright work, which shall be done in a good and workmanlike manner, and shall furnish all materials therefor, except
such as are now in said mill and can be utilized, which may be
used free of charge by said party of the first part; and the
said party of the second part hereby covenants and agrees to
pay the said party of the first part for said machinery, materials and labor the sum of seventeen thousand eight hundred
and fifty dollars, as' follows.: $7000 cash on shipment of said
machipes, and $7000 in nine months from date of shipment of
said machinery; $3850 in twelve months from date of shipment of said machinery. Party of the -second part to keep
the mill insured for the benefit of party of the first part as
their interest may appear in case of fire, for which said party
of the second part agrees to execute and deliver promissory
notes to said party of the first part, dated time of shipment of
machinery, bearing eight per cent interest, and secured as
follows: To be satisfactory to the parties of the first part.
No claims for damages shall be made by said party of the
second part on account of delays incident to starting up. The

HOWARD v. STILLWELL -& BLEROE !'F'G

CO.

201

Statement of the Case.

said party of the second part agrees to be responsible for any
damage or loss by fire or otherwise after the machinery reaches
Dallas. The title of said machinery shall remain in and not
pass from said party of the first part until the same is paid for
and until all the notes, whether secured or unsecured, given
therefor, are fully paid, and in default of payment, as above'
agreed, said party of the first part, or its agent, may take possession of and remove said machines without legal process."
The amended petition filed January 31, 1887, alleged that
the plaintiff had performed its part of the contract; that the
defendants had paid the first payment of $7000 at the time it
fell due, but that they had not paid the two deferred payments
which were then past due; and that they had refused to execute their notes for the deferred payments, according to the
contract. The plaintiffs prayed judgment for the sum of
$10,850, the amount of the deferred payments, with eight per
cent interest from May 26, 1885, the date of the shipment of
the machinery.
The defendants filed a general denial, and also a plea in
reconvention under the laws of Texas. This plea denied that
the plaintiff had performed its part of the contract, and sought
a recovery from it 'of the amount of losses caused by such
failure of performance.. The plea further alleged that the
company did not have the mill completed within the time
prescribed by the contract; that it did n6t furnish the machinery nor complete the mill within a reasonable time, or in a
workmanlike manner as required .by the contract, or furnish
all the machinery contracted for; and that not only did the
company delay the work beyond the contract time, but, in
addition to such breach of the contract, it left the mill in so
incomplete a condition that the defendants, at considerable
expense to themselves, had to rectify the errors made by the
company and complete the work as it had been contracted to
be performed. , An amended plea continued as follows : "That
there was a ready cash market in Dallas all this time for flour
of the grade said mill would have made if constructed as
plaintiff had agreed it should 'be, and defendants could have
sold all of said flour it could have made auring said unneces-

0CTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

sary delays caused 'by plaintiff, viz. 200 barrels per day, and
that plaintiff, by reason of the facts above stated, delayed
defendants in, the manufacture of said, flour for sixty days, by
which defendants lost a profat of $1 per barrel on 12,000 barrels of flour, or the sum of $12,000." The defendants accordingly demanded judgment against the plaintiff for the sum of
.
f
$20,000.,.
The case came on for trial before Judge X,cCormick and a
jury, on the 8th of February, 1887. On that day the defendants moved to suppress the deposition of William Odell, the
foreman of the plaintiff company in the reconstruction of the
mill, taken at Rochester, New York, for the purpose of showing that. the, delay of the plaintiff in completing the mill was
caused by the defendants not having the building completed
and ready for the machinery when the same was shipped.
The record showed that the deposition was received and filed
by the clerk of the court on the 22d of January, 1887,-and
vas opened at the request of the attorney for plaintiff on the
5th of February of that year. This motion was as follows:
"(1) Because said deposition is not certified- to by the officer
who took the same, as required by law regulating the taking
of depositions de bene esse. (2) Because no reasonable notice
of the time and place of taking said deposition was given the
defendants, as required by law regulating the taking of depositions, de bene esse. (3) Because said deposition was not taken
under authoritjr of any dedimus potestatem granted by any
court of the United States according to common usage." The
court overruled the motion to suppress the deposition, and it
was admitted and read. in evidence;, to which ruling the defendants excepted.
Afterwards, on the same.day, the plaintiff moved to strike
out s6 much of the defendants' plea in reconvention, as seeks
to recover the sum of one dollar per barrel on twelve thousand
barrels of -flour- that part quoted above -. which motion was
sustained by the court, and the defendants excepted.
The plaintiff then introduced in evidence the contract sued
on, and gave evidence tending to prove that the same had
been complied with on its part. The defendants introduced

HOWARD v. STILLWELL & BIERCE TN'FG CO.

20a

Statement of the Case.

evidence tending to prove that the mill contracted to be built
by the plaintiff for the defendants was not completed within
a reasonable time, and was defectively constructed, and that
the defendants were delayed in the manufacture of flour by
reason of such delay and such defective construction. The
defendants then offered, in writing, to prove by their own.
individual testimony; "that the market price per barrel for
flour of the grade the contract sued upon stipulated for, between the middle of July, 1885, and the middle of September,
1885, was $5.00 per barrel; that during that period there was
a ready cash market value in Texas for said grade of flour at
$5.00 to $5.50 per barrel, and that the defendants could have
sold 200 barrels per day during said period at $5.00 per barrel,
and that upon each barrel so sold they would have realized
$1.00 per barrel profit; that defendants had purchased and
held on storage during said period a sufficient quantity of
good wheat to have manufactured 200 barrels per day during
said sixty days; that the market price during said period of
-such wheat was 60 to 70c. per bushel, and that the expense of
turning such wheat into flour during said period was 80c. per
barrel, and that defendants had in their employ all necessary
laborers and skilled workmen to manufacture said wheat into
flour, and were fully equipped with fuel and water and everything necessary to convert said wheat into flour, save and
except the parts and pieces of said mill which plaintiff contracted to furnish in the contract sued on;" all of which
above testimony was offered in support of that portion of
defendants' plea in reconvention which sought to recover the
profits on 12,000 barrels of flour. The court overruled the
offer to prove all those facts, except the fact of the amount of
wheat which the defendants had on hand during that period,
to which ruling the defendants excepted. The plaintiff, in
rebuttal, introduced the deposition of Odell, before mentioned,'
and other evidence tending to prove that the contract was
complied with on its "part. and that the building was not completed by June 1, 1885.
The jury returned a verdict in which they found for the
plaintiff, on the contract, in the sum of 112,332.82, including.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

interest; and for the defendants' in the sum of $875, as
damages. Upon this verdict judgment was rendered in favor
of the plaintiff and against the defendants for $11,457.82. A
motion for a new trial having been overruled, the defendants
sued out this writ.

.Y '. TWiliam itallete Pkillis for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. John Johns for defendant in error.
, x. JusTi. LAmAR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The errors assigned are as follows: ".(1) There was error in
sustaining the exception to that part of defendants' plea-which
sought the recovery of profits, and in rejecting defendants'
offer of evidence in support of the plea. (2) The court erred
in overruling the defendants' motion to suppress the deposition
of Odell."
We will consider these assignments in the reverse order in
which they are stated. The points made against the deposition of Odell by counsel for plaintiffs in error are, that it was
not taken under any provision of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, and that section 914, Revised Statutes, relating
to the adoption. by the federal courts of the forms and modes
of proceeding in civil causes in the state courts, has no application to the present inquiry. It will be observed that these
points do not relate to the competency of the witness whose
deposition was taken, or to the admissibility of the evidence
given in it, but are based solely on objections as to the form
of the commission and the manner of taking the deposition.
The record shows that the cause was at issue May 20, 1886.
The commission to .take the deposition of the witness Odell
was signed January 4, 1887. Notice of the issuing of the
commission was served on the defendants, and they filed crossinterrogatories in the premises, at the same time making the
following waiver: "We waive copy of interrogatories and
consent that commission may issue upon the original, direct

HOWARD v. STILLWELL & BIERCE MI'F'G CO.

205-

Opinion of the Court.

and cross-interrogatories.

(Signed) Lindsley & McCormick,

att'ys for defendants." As already stated, the deposition was
filed in the case on the 22d of January, 1887, and opened, at
the request of the attorney for the plaintiff, on the 5th of February, following. The motion to suppress the deposition was
not made until the 8th of February, when the case came on
for trial. In our opinion, the motion in this instance was too
late. The counsel for defendants by waiving copy of the
interrogatories, when notice of them was served upon them,
and consenting to the issue of the commission, and practically
uniting with plaintiff's counsel in executing it, by adding their
own cross-interrogatories, and withholding the objections until
after the trial had begun, must be considered as having waived
such objections. It is the settled rule of this court that the
failure of a party to note objections to depositions, of the
kind in question, when they are taken; or to present them by
a motion to suppress, or by some other notice before the trial
is begun, will be held to be a waiver of the objections. Whilst
the law requires due diligence in both parties, it will not permit one of them to be entrapped by the acquiescence of the
opposite party in an informality which he springs during the
progress of the trial, when it is not possible to retake the
deposition. Skutte v. Thompson, 15 Wall. 151, 158 et seg.;
.Afechanics' Bank of Alexandria v. Seton, 1 Pet. 299, 307;
Tinan8 v. Nfew York and I2rie Railroad, 21 How. 88, 100;
Y"ork Company v. Central Railroad,3 Wall. 107, 113; Doane
v. Glenn, 21 Wall. 33, 35; Buddioum v. Rirk, 3 Oranch, 293,
297; Rich v. _armnert, 12 fHow. 34:7, 354.
The remaining assignment of error, which relates to the
striking out of so much of 'the defendants' plea as sought a
recovery of profits, and the refusal of the court to allow any
evidence to be introduced in support of it, needs nd extended
consideration. The question raised by it is, whether the anticipated profits of the defendants resulting from grinding
wheat into flour and selling the same, had the mill been completed at the date specified in the contract, can be recovered
by way of damages for delay in putting up the mill machinery.
The authorities both in the United Statds and England are-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

agreed that, as a general rule, subject to certain well-established qualifications, the anticipated profits prevented by the
breach of a contract are not recoverable in the way of damages for such breach; but in the application of this principle
the same uniformity in the decisions does not exist. In some
cases of almost, exact analogy, in the facts, the adjudications
of the courts in the different States are directly opposite. The
.grounds upon which the general rule of excluding profits, in
estimating damages, rests, are (1) that in the greater number
of cases such expected profits are too dependent upon numerous, uncertain and changing contingencies to constitute a definite and trustworthy measure of actual damages; (2) because
such loss of profits is ordinarily remote and not, as a matter
of course, the direct and immediate result of the non-fulfilment
of the contract; (3) and because most frequently the engagement to pay such loss of profits, in case of default in the performance, is not a part of the contract itself, nor can it be
implied from its nature and terms. Sedgwick on Damages,

(Tth ed.,) vol. 1, p. 108 ; Tle Schooner Lively, 1 Gallison, 315,
325, per Mr. Justice Story; Tite Anna _fari, 2 Wheat. 327;
The Alniable _yancy, 3 Wheat. 546; La .Amistad de 1ues,
5 Wheat. 385; Smith, v. Condry, 1 HIow. 28; Parishv. United
States, 100 U. S. 500, 507; Bulkley v. United States, 19 Wall.
37. -But it is equally well settled that the profits which would
have been realized had the contract been performed, and
which have been prevented by its breach, are included in the
damages to be recovered in every case where such profits are
not open to the objection of uncertainty or of remoteness, or
where from the express or implied terms of the contract itself,
or the special circumstances under which it was made, it may
be reasonably presumed that they were within the intent and
mutual understanding of both parties at the time it was
entered into., Untited State8 v. Beha?, 110 U. S. 338, 34:5, 346,
)47; ,Western Union, Tel. (o. v. Hall, 124 U. S. 444, 454,
45(.; Philadel4'ba,Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad Co. v.
=loward, 13 Ilow. 307.
Cases illustrating various phases of this rule are numerous.
One of the leading ones applicable to the case in question is

HOWARD v. STILLWELL & BIERCE NF'G CO.

207

Opinion of the Court.

Hadley v. Baxendale, decided in the Court of Exchequer at
Hilary term, 1854, 9 Exch. 341, 354, 356. In that case the
plaintiffs, who were the owners of a flour-mill, sent a broken
iron shaft to the office of the defendants, who were common
carriers, to be conveyed by them to a manufacturer of such
machinery, the broken shaft to serve as a model or pattern for
the new one. The clerk of the defendants in their office was
told that the mill was stopped, that the shaft must be delivered
immediately and that a special entry should be made, if necessary, to hasten its delivery. The delivery of the broken shaft
to the manufacturer was delayed an unreasonable length of
time, in consequence of which the plaintiff did not receive the
new shaft for some days- after the time it ought to have been
received, and they were, therefore, unable to work their mill
from want of the new shaft, thereby incurring a loss of profits.
It was held, however, that such loss of profits could not be
recovered as damages in an action against the defendants as
common carriers. Baron Alderson, in delivering the opinion
of the court, laid down the rule of law as follows: "Now, we
thinki the proper rule in such a case as the present is this:
Where two parties have made a contract which one of them
has broken, the damages which the other party ought to receive in respect of such breach of contract should be such as
may fairly and reasonably be considered either arising naturally, i.e. according to the usual course of things, from such
breach of contract itself, or such as may reasonably be supposed to have been in the contemplation of both parties, at
the time they made the contract, as the probable result of the
breach of it. Now, if the special circumstances under which
the contract was actually made were communicated by the
plaintiffs to the defendants, and thus known to both parties,
the damages resulting from the breach of such a contract,
which they would reasonably contemplate, would be the amount
of injury which would ordinarily follow from a breach of contract under these special circumstances so known and communicated.

.

.

It follows, therefore, that the loss of profits

here cannot reasonably be considered such a consequence of the
breach of contract as could have been fairly and reasonably

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

contemplated by both the parties when they made this contract. For such loss would neither have flowed naturally from
the-breach of this contract in the great multitude of such cases
occurring under ordinary circumstances, nor were the special
circumstances, which, perhaps, would have made it a reasonable and natural consequence of such breach of contract, communicated to or known. by the defendants."
That base has been cited with approval and commented on
'bymany of the courts of this country and by text-writers as
well. The general'principles of it, we believe, are recognized
and enforced, in most, if not all, of the several States. A large
number of the cases are referred to in Sedgwick on the Aleasure of Damages, vol. 1, 66-16, and 5 Encyclopdia of Law,
pp. 13, 15, 32-4, and we shall attempt no extended review of
them. We shall content ourselves with a reference to a few
of the leading ones most nearly, similar to the one before us.
Pennypae er v. Jones, 106 Penn. St. 237, 242, -was very
much like the present case. In that case the plaintiffs, who
owned and operated a flour-mill in Philadelphia, entered into
a contract with the defendants by certain of the terms of
which the defendants were to place in their mill, within a specified time, machinery of a certain capacity, to make flour of
a high grade. The machines when furnished were found not
to make a high grade of flour, and to be incapable of producing the stipulated. number of barrels per day. In an action
for damages by the plaintiff for breach of the contract, it was
held that the loss of possible profits, which might have been
made if the mill had run properly, was not a proper subject
of damages, for the reason that such damages were too remote
and speculative. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr.
Justice Green used this language: "It was no part of this
contract that the plaintiffs should make profits, or even have
the opportunity of doing so, by carrying on a business with
the machinery which the defendants agreed to erect. It is not
like the sale of chattels or of land, where the difference between the contract valub and the actual or market value of
the property sold represents directly and immediately the
measure of the party's loss or gain in the transaction. There

HOWARD v. STILLWELL & BIERCE

'F'G CO.

209

Opinion of the Court.

the possible profit is the very object of the contract, and is
necessarily in the contemplation of the parties. But when a
machinist furnishes machinery to a mill owner it is no part of
his engagement that a profitable business shall be carried on
with the machinery furnished. Of course if it is defective he
is responsible for the damage resulting directly from such
defect; but that is a very different thing from the uncertain,
remote and speculative profits which may or may not be made
in the business to be done."
In Callaway Mining and Xanufaoturing Co. v. Clark, 32
Missouri, 305, which was an action for the seizure and detention of a steamboat by an attachment which was discharged,
it was held that the measure of damages was only the actual
damage sustained by the seizure, and that the jury could not
be permitted to speculate as to what might or might not have
been the earnings of the boat during the period of seizure.
Blanchard v. Ely, 21 Wend. 342, was an action for the
price of a" steamboat. The defence was that part of the
machinery of the boat was unsound and imperfect, whereby
considerable delay was caused; and that the loss of the probable profits that would have been made upon the trips that
might have been run during the time the vessel was delayed
on account of the imperfections in its construction, might be
recouped in-the action for the price of the boat. But the court
held that such contingent profits could not be allowed. See
also Olmstead v. Burke, 25 Illinois, 86; TFinne v. IEelley, 34:
Iowa, 339; Howe ifachine Co. v. Bryson, 44 Iowa, 159; Freeman v. Glute, 3 Barb. 424; Griffin v. Colver, 16 N. Y. 489;
Wakeman v. Wheeler & Wilson .Affg. Co., 101 N. Y. 205;
Brown v. Smith, 12 Cush. 366 ; Boyd v. Brown, 17 Pick. 453 ;
Willingharl v. ilooven, 74 Georgia, 233; Georgia Railroad v.
Hayden, 71 Georgia, 518; Bridges v. Lanham, 14 Nebraska,
369; Houston & Texas Cent. By. Co. v. 2ill, 63 Texas, 381;.
Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 28.
The principles announced by the above cited authorities lead
to the conclusion that the court did not err in striking.out that
part of the defendants' plea which sought to recover $12,00(
as the profits expected to be derived from the sale of the flour
VOL. cxxxx-14

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

which they would have manufactured, and in excluding the
evidence offered in support of the claim therein set up. Tested
by them, such losses were, in our opinion, rather remote and
speculative than direct and immediate, resulting from the
breach alleged. There was no stipulation id the contract that
the defendants should make profits on flour from the wheat
ground up by the machinery which the plaintiff contracted to
furnish and erect in the mill. Nor were there any special
circumstances attending the transaction from which an understanding between the parties could be inferred that the plaintiff was to make good any loss of profits incurred by a delay
in furnishing and putting up such machinery, according to the
terms of the contract.
,We see no error in the judgment of the court below prejudicial to the plaintiffs in error, and it is

Afflvned.

BAYYNE v. WIGGINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 151.

Argued January 20, 1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

If, after an oral agreement for the sale of land, the purchaser executes a
deed, describing the land by metes and bounds, but insufficiently acknowledged to pass title, and sends that deed to the vendor in a letter stating
the terms of payment in cash and notes, and requesting payment accordingly; and the purchaser replies by lette-, containing a draft of a similar
deed with a sufficient acknowledgment, requesting that it be executed
instead of the other, and promising, on receipt of it, to " forward money,
notes and- old deed;" the two letters, and the deed inclosed in the first
letter, together constitute a sufficient memorandum in writing to take
the contract out of the statute of frauds.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. -M. F. Elliott for plaintiffs in error. -r.
and -Mr. F. .Watrous were also on the brief.

1R. Brown

