ST. PAUL &c. RtAILWAY CO. v. GREENALGH.
Counsel for Appellants.

The general purpose of the act was accomplished if such rea-_
sonable portions of the general route were located as would
intelligently guide the officers of the Land Department with
reference to the patents to be issued for lands intended for
the company. The withdrawal in any case would only extend
along the route which was fixed, and a map of which was filed
in the department.
As to the objection that no evidence was produced of any
selection by the Secretary of the Interi6r from the indemnity
lands to make up for the deficiencies found in the lands within
the place limits, it is sufficient to observe that all the lands
within the indemnity limits only made up in part for these
deficiencies. There was, therefore, no occasion for the exercise of the judgment of the Secretary in selecting from them,
for they were all appropriated.
Upon the whole case we are satisfied that the decree of the
court below was correct, and it is accordingly
-Afmed.
ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND MANITOBA IAILWAY COMPANY v. GREENALGH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 24. Argued and submitted November 6,1890. -Decided

March 2,1891.

When a statut e extends the time for the completion of a land grant railroad, upon the condition of saving and securing to actual settlers and
their grantees on any of the granted lands their rights in all respects the
same as if said lands had never been granted to aid in the construction
of said lines of railroad, and the company asserts and continues to assert
and exercise ownership over the road and other property, after the exp.iration of the time for completing the road, to the same extent as previously, it will be presumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary,
that the company has accepted the conditions imposed, and that it has
relinquished all claim to the lands thus settled and occupied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-r. S. U. Piney for appellants.

OCTOBERl

TERAN, 1890.

Opinion of the Court.

.A.
:MR.

.

P. Mcfillan for appellees.
R

JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff, the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway Company, is a corporation created under the laws of
Minnesota. The defendants are citizens of that State; and
James Greenaigh, the grantee of his co-defendant, Charles W.
°Greenalgh, who received a patent of the United States, claims
title to the land covered by that patent. The controversy in
the case is over the ownership of this land, the plaintiff contending that it is a part of the grant made by Congress to the
State of Minnesota on the 3d of M arch, 1857, to aid in the
construction of certain railroads, and by the State conveyed
to the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company, to the rights
of which the plaintiff has succeeded. The defendants controvert this position, contending, first, that the premises in controversy were never covered by the grant to the State, and
therefore never passed by its conveyance to the St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company; and, second, that if they were a
part of that grant, and by the conveyance of the State passed
to that railroad company, the extension of the time to complete the road, which it was authorized to construct, released
them from its claim.
In the case of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company v. The ]Tortern Pacific Railroad Company, ante, 1,
we had occasion to consider somewhat at length the grant
of Congress to the State of Minnesota by the act of March
3, 1857, and the changes in it by subsequent legislation, particularly by the jofnt resolution of Congress of July 12, 1862,
authorizing a change in the line of one of the branch railroads, and by the act of March 3, 1865, increasing the alternate sections granted on each side of the road from six to
ten sections, and'enlarging the indemnity limits from fifteen
to twenty miles, and the act of March 3, 1871, authorizing a
change of certain designated lines in consideration of the relinquishment of lands along them.
the, year 1871 the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad, Coin- In

ST. PAUL &c. IRAILWAY CO. v. GRIEENALGH.

21

Opinion of the Court.

pany under the assumed authority of the act of March 3, 1871,
located the line of a road from St. Cloud to St. Vincent, passing through Glyndon and Crookston, differing and distinct
from the definite location made by the predecessor of that
company in 1857. On the 7th of November, 1871, a map of
this new location, certified by the officers of the company, was
filed with the governor of the State, and on the 20th of December following a copy, properly certified and approved by
the Secretary of the Interior, was filed in the office of the
commissioner of the general land office. Afterwards, by an
act of Congress, passed :March 3, 1873, 17 Stat. c. 331, p. 631,
this location was recognized and virtually approved, by an
extension of time to the company for the completion of the
road as thus located within nine months from the time previously prescribed. Whatever doubt as to the regularity or
validity of the location might otherwise arise, there can be
none of its validity from the time of this recognition.
On February 15, 1872, after the map of definite location was
filed, the Secretary of the Interior ordered a withdrawal from.
sale or other disposition, of the odd-numbered sections within
twenty miles. On June 18, 1872, the Secretary directed the
vacation of this order. On the 26th of June the defendant,
Charles W. Greenalgh, settled on the land in controversy,
which is within ten miles of the line of the road, and within
its place limits. See Barney v. Winona 6 St. Peter BailP'oad, 117 U. S. 228, 231, correcting in this particular the
decision in 113 U. S.618. After the settlement, he resided
upon the land and made improvements thereon. le subsequently filed and. proved up his claim, and obtained a patent
of the United States. On September 4, 1872, the order of
vacation was duly revoked. As thus seen the settlement of
this defendant was commenced during the period when the
withdrawal of the lands from sale or other disposition was not.
in force.
The act of Congress of June 22, 1874, 18 Stat. c. -24, p.
203, in its first section declare§ that it extends to the St. Paul
and Pacific Railroad Company the time for the completion of
its roads to M arch 3, 1876, and "no longer, upon the following

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
. Opinion of the Court.

conditions: That all rights ofictual settlers and their grantees
who have heretofore in good faith entered upon and actually
resided on any of said lands prior to the passage of this act,
or who otherwise have legal rights in any of such lands, shall
be saved and secured to such settlers or other such persons in
all respects the same as if said lands had never been granted
to aid in the construction of the said lines of railroad."
In its second section it required the company:, as a condition
of acquiring any rights under the act, to sign a fornal acceptance of its conditions, and file such acceptance in the Department of the Interior for record and preservation. It does not
affirmatively appear that any such acceptance was ever signed;
but as the company continued to assert and exercise ownership over the road and other property, after the expiration of
the time for completing the road, to the same extent as previously, it will be considered, in the absence of proof to the
contrary, as having in fact accepted the conditions imposed,
and relinquished all claim to the lands thus settled upon and
occupied.
It seems also that the State of Minnesota, on the first of
March, 1877, enacted that the railroad company should not,
"in any manner, directly or indirectly, acquire or become
seized of any right, title, interest, claim or 'demand in: or to
any piece or parcel of land

upon which any person

or persons have in good faith settled, and made or acquired
valuable improvements thereon, on or before the passage of
the act."
The road of the plaintiff under consideration here was not
completed till November, 1878, and consequently the rights
granted to the company were ' subject to forfeiture, or at least
the company was subject to hostile proceedings, for breach of
this condition attached by law to the grant. A mere breach
of condition does not -of itself work a forfeiture of a grant;
some other proceeding must be taken by the grantor to indicate his dissatisfaction with the breach and his intention to
exercise his rights to reioke the grant and take possession of
the property in consequence thereof. While, in this case no
specific action was taken by Congress to work a forfeiture of

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY C(. v. GREENALGH.

23

Opinion of the Court.

the grant, or by the State, yet the continued possession and
use of the propierty by the company were, in fact, subject to the
condition that the rights of settlers upon the lands at the time
should not be interfered with, where such settlements had been
made in good faith, as was the case in the present instance.
And it would be in the highest degree inequitable to allow the
company to have all the benefits of the extension of time to
complete its road, so as to avoid any forfeiture of its privileges and franchises, without at the same time holding it to
the conditions affecting t'ie rights of settlers upon the lands
of the company, in consideration of which the extension was
made.
We think, therefore, that the defendant James W. Greenalgh, under the patent issued to his co-defendant Charles, upon
proof of the latter's settlement and subsequent improvements,
had the better right to the land in controversy, and the decree
of the court, below is

THE ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOYIS & MirAITOBA RAILwAY Co-puAy

v. WENzEL. Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Minnesdta. No. 25. Argued and submitted
March 6, 1890. MR. JUsTIcE F:ELD. This case involves the same
question decided in St. Paul,Minneapolis and MAfanitoba Railway
Company v. Charles W. Greenalgh and James Greenalgh, and upon
the authority of that case the decree will be
Affirmed.
.Mr. S. U. Pinney for appellants.
Mr. S. . B. J cMillan for appellees.

