OCTOBER TERM, 1959.
Per Curiam.

362 U. S.

DUSIlY v. UNITED STATES.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 504, Misc.

Decided April 18, 1960.

Certiorari granted.
Since the record in this case does not sufficientlysupport the findings
of petitioner's competency to stand trial, the judgment affirming
his conviction is reversed and the case is remanded to the District
Court for a hearing to determine his present competency to stand
trial, and for a new trial if he is found competent. Pp. 402-403.
271 F. 2d 385, reversed.

James W. Benjamin for petitioner.
Solicitor General Rankin for the United States.
PER .CURIAM.

The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and
the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted. Upon
consideration of the entire record we agree with the
Solicitor General that "the record in this case does not
sufficiently support the findings of competency to stand
trial," for to support those findings under 18 U. S. C.
ยง 4244 the district judge "would need more information
than this record presents." We also agree with the suggestion of the Solicitor General that it is not enough for
the districtjudge to find that "the defendant [is] oriented
to time and place and [has] some recollection of events,"
but that the "test, must be whether he has sufficient
present ability to consult with his lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational understanding-and whether he
has a rational as well as factual understanding of the
proceedings against him.'?

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
362 U.S.

April 18, 1960.

In view of the doubts and ambiguities regarding the
legal significance of the psychiatric testimony in this case
and the resulting difficulties of retrospectively determining
the petitioner's competency as of more than a year ago,
we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals affirming
the judgment of conviction, and remand the case to the
District Court for a new hearing to ascertain petitioner's
present competency to stand trial, and for a new trial if
petitioner is found competent.
It is so ordered.

IZZO v. ILLINOIS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 772, Misc. Decided April 18, 1960.
Appeal dismissed and certiorari denied.
PER CURIAM.

The appeal is dismissed. Treating the papers whereon
the appeal was taken as a petition for writ of certiorari,
certiorari is denied.

