OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Per Curiam.

371 U. S.

WALTON v. ARKANSAS.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 18, Misc. Decided October 22, 1962.
Certiorari granted; judgment vacated; and case remanded for consideration in light of Hamilton v. Alabama, 368 U. S. 52.
Reported below: 233 Ark. 999, 350 S. W. 2d 302.

John C. Finley, Jr. for. petitioner.
Frank Holt, Attorney General of Arkansas, and Thorp
Thomas and Jack L. Lessenberry, Assistant Attorneys
General., for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

The motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis and
the petition for a writ of certiorariare granted.
In this capital case the Supreme Court of Arkansas sustained petitioner's conviction against the claim, among
others, that in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the CQnstitution of the United States his involuntary confession of the crime was introduced in evidence at the trial.
Walton v. State, 233 Ark. 999, 350 S. W. 2d 302. Petitioner contends that independently of this claim his
conviction was unconstitutional because he was not represented by counsel at the time of his arraignment in the
course of which he acknowledged the voluntariness of his
confession, such acknowledgment being later used in evidence against him at the trial.
When the Arkansas Supreme Court decided this case
it did not have the benefit of this Court's decision in
Hamilton v. Alabama, 368 U. S. 52, which was rendered
subsequent to the state court's decision and on the same
day that it denied rehearing upon a petition filed prior

WALTON v. ARKANSAS.
28

29

Per Curiam.

to the announcement of the Hamilton case. Further, we
are unable to conclude from the record filed in this Court
either that petitioner had counsel at the time of the
arraignment proceedings or, if not, that he was advised
of his right to have counsel at such proceedings and that
he understandingly and intelligently waived that right.
In these circumstances we conclude that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of At..ansas should be vacated and
the case remanded to that court for further consideration
in light of Hamilton v. Alabama, supra, or for such other
appropriate proceedings as may be available under state
law for resolution of this constitutional claim.
It isso ordered.

