132

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Syllabus.

371 U. S.

PEARLMAN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v.
RELIANCE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 78. Argued October 9-10, 1962.Decided December 3, 1962.
When, by reason of the contractor's-default, a surety on a payment

bond given by a contractor under the Miller Act, 49 Stat. 793, has
been compelled to pay debts of the contractor for labor and
materials, the surety is entitled by subrogation to reimbursement
from a fund otherwise due to the contractor but withheld by the
Government pursuant to the terms of the contract-even though
the contractor has become bankrupt and the Government has
turned the withheld fund over to the contractor's trustee in
bankruptcy. Pp. 133-142.
(a) This fund never becarfie a part of the bankruptcy estate
and its disposition is not controlled by the Bankruptcy Act.
Pp. 135-136.
(b) Prairie State Bank v. United States, 164 U. S. 227, and
Henningsen v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co., 208 U. S. 404,
followed. Pp. 137-139.
(c) The Miller Act, which requires separate performance and
payment bonds on Government contracts, did not change the law
as declared in the Prairie State Bank and Henningsen cases.
Pp. 139-140.
(d) The PrairieState Bank and Henningsen cases were not overruled by United States v. Munsey Trust Co., 332 U. S. 234. Pp.
140-142.
298 F. 2d 655, affirmed.

Raymond T. Miles argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs was Lowell Grosse.
Mark N. Turner argued the cause and filed briefs for
respondent.
John G. Street, Jr. and Edward M. Murphy filed briefs
as ainici curiae, urging reversal.

PEARLMAN v. RELIANCE INS. CO.
Opinion.of the Court.

132

David Morgulas filed a brief for the Association of
Casualty & Surety Companies, as amicus curiae, urging
affirmance.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a dispute between the trustee in bankruptcy of
a government contractor and the contractor's payment
bond surety over which has the superior right and title to
a fund withheld by the Government out of earnings due
the contractor.
The petitioner, Pearlman, is trustee of the bankrupt
estate of the' Dutcher Construction Corporation, which
in April 1955 entered into a contract with the United
States to do work on the Government's St. Lawrence Seaway project. At the same time the respondent, Reliance
Insurance Company,' executed two surety bonds required
of the contractor by the Miller Act, one to guarantee performance of the contract, the other to guarantee payment
to all persons supplying labor and material for the project.2
Under the terms of the contract, which was attached to
and made a part of the payment bond, the United States

IThe company
240

was then known as Fire Association of Philadelphia.
U. S. C. § 270a provides in part as follows:

"(a) Before any contract, exceeding $2,000 in amount, for the construction, alteration, or repair of any public building or public work
of the United States is awarded to any persoi., such person shall fur-

nish to the United States the following bonds, which shall become
binding upon the award of the contract to such person, who is hereinafter designated as 'contractor':
"(1) A performance bond with a surety or sureties satisfactory
to the officer awarding such contract, and in such amount as he shall
deem adequate, for the protection of the United States.
."(2) A payment bond with a surety or sureties satisfactory to such
officer for the protection of all persons supplying labor and material
in the prosecution of the work provided for in said contract for 'the
use of each such person."

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

was authorized to retain and hold a percentage of estimated amounts due monthly until final completion and
acceptance of all work covered by the contract. Before
completion Dutcher had financial trouble and the United
States terminated its contract by agreement. Another
contractor completed the job, which was finally accepted
by the Government. At this time there was left in the
Government's withheld fund $87,737.35, which would
have been due to be paid to Dutcher had it carried out its
obligation to pay its laborers and materialmen. Since it
had not met this obligation, its surety had been compelled
to pay about $350,000 to discharge debts of the contractor
for labor and materials. In this situation the Government
was holding over $87,000 which plainly belonged to someone else, and the fund was turned over to the bankrupt's
trustee, who held it on the assumption that it had been
property of the bankrupt at the time of adjudication and
therefore had vested in the trustee "by operation of law"
under § 70 of the Bankruptcy Act.' The surety then filed
a petition in' the District (ourt denying that the fund had
vested in the.trustee, alleging that it, the surety, was "the
owner of said sum" of $87,737.35 "free and clear of the
claims of the Trustee in Bankruptcy or any other person,
firm or corporation," and seeking an order directing the
trustee to pay over the fund to the surety forthwith.4
The referee in bankruptcy, relying chiefly on this Court's
opirion in United States v. Munsey Trust Co., 332 U. S.
234 (1947), held that the surety had no superior rights
in the fund, refused to direct payment to the surety, and
s36 St .t. 565 (1898), 11 U. S. C. § 110.
4 The surety appears also to have claimed some general priority over
a creditbrs for the entire $350,000 it had paid out, for the contractor,
based on, "liens, subrogation and assignment," but here its petition
for certiorari and briefs seem to limit its claim to the net amount of
the retained fund turned over to the trustee by the Government.

PEARLMAN v. RELIANCE INS. CO.
132

Opinion of the Court.

accordingly ordered the surety's claim to be allowed as
that of a general creditor only to share on an equality with
the-general run of unsecured creditors.' The District
Court. vacated the referee's order and held that cases
decided prior to Munsey had established the right of a
surety under circumstances like this to be accorded
priority over general creditors and that Munsey had not
changed that rule.' The Second Circuit affirmed. Other
federal courts have reached a contrary result,8 and as the
question is an important and .recurring one, we granted
certiorari to decide it.'
One argument against the surety's claim is that this
controversy is governed entirely by the Bankruptcy Act
and that § 64, 11 U. S. C. § 104, which prescribes'priorities
for different classes of creditors, gives no priority to a
surety's claim for reimbursement. But the present dispute-who has the property interests in the fund, and
how much-is not so simply solved. Ownership of property rights before bankruptcy is one thing; priority of distribution in bankruptcy of property that has passed unencumbered into a bankrupt's estate is quite another.
Property interests in a fund not owned by a bankrupt at
the time of adjudication, whether complete or partial,
legal or equitable, mortgages, liens, or simple priority of
rights, are of course not a part of the bankrupt's property
and do not vest in the trustee. The Bankruptcy Act simply does not authorize a trustee.to distribute other peo535

J. N. A. Ref. Bankr.. 81 (1961).

6 In re Dutcher Constr. Corp., 197 F. Supp. 441 (D. C. W. D. N. Y.

1961).
7 298 F. 2d 655 (C. A. 2d Cir. 1962).
s See, e. g., American Sur. Co. v. Hinds, 260 F. 2d 366 (C. A. 10th
Cir. 1958); Phoenix Indem. Co. v. Earle, 218 F. 2d 645 (C. A.'9th
Cir. 1955).
9 3 69 U. S. 847 (1962).

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

ple's property among a bankrupt's creditors. 10 So here if
the surety at the time of adjudication was, as it claimed,
either the outright legal or equitable owner of this fund, or
had an equitable lien or prior right to it, this property
interest of the surety never became a part of the bankruptcy estate to. be administered, liquidated, and distributed to general creditors of the bankrupt. This Court
has recently reaffirmed that such property rights existing
before bankruptcy in persons other than the bankrupt
must be recognized and respected in bankruptcy." Consequently our question is not who was entitled to priority
in distributions under § 64, but whether the surety had,
as it claimed, ownership of, an equitable lien on, or a prior
right to this fund before bankruptcy adjudication.
Since there is no statute which expressly declares that
a surety does acquire a property interest in a fund like this
under the circumstances here, we must seek an answer in
prior judicial decisions. Some of the relevant factors in
determining the question are beyond dispute. Traditionally sureties compelled to pay debts for their principal
have been deemed entitled to reimbursement, even without a contractual promise such as the surety here had. 2
And probably there are few doctrines better established
10 See Justice Holmes' discussion in Sexton v. Kessler & Co., 225
U. S. 90, 98-99 (1912). As to the difficulties inherent in phrases like
"equitable lien," see Glenn, The "Fquitable Pledge", Creditors' Rights,
and the Chandler Act, 25 Va. L. Rev. 422, 423 (1939).
11United States v. Durham Lumber Co., 363 U. S. 522 (1960).
See also Security Mortgage Co. v. Powers, 278 U. S. 149 (1928), and
cases collected in 6 Am. Jur., Bankruptcy, § 949 (rev. ed. 1950). Cf.
A.quilino v. United States, 363 U. S. 509 (1960).
12 "The right of subrogation is not founded on contract.
It is a
creature of equity; is enforced solely for the purpose of accomplishing
the ends of substantial justice; and is independent of any contractual
relations between the parties." Memphis & L. R. R. Co. v. Dow,
120 U. S.287, 301-302 (1887).

PEARLMAN v. RELIANCE INS. CO.
132

Opinion of the Court.

than that a surety who pays the debt of another is entitled to all the rights of the person he paid to enforce
his right to be reimbursed. 3 This rule, widely applied
in this country 11 and generally known as the right of
subrogation, was relied on by the Court of Appeals in this
case. It seems rather plain that at least two prior decisions of this Court have held that there is a security
interest in a withheld fund like this to which the surety
is subrogated, unless, as is argued, the rule laid down in
those cases has been changed by passage of the Miller
Act or by our holding in the Munsey case. Those two
cases are Prairie State Bank v. United States, 164

U. S. 227.(1896), and Henningsen v. United States Fid.
& Guar. Co., 208 U. S.404 (1908).
In the PrairieBank case a surety who had been compelled to complete a government contract upon the contractor's default in performance claimed that he was
entitled to be reimbursed for his expenditure out of a fund
that arose from the Government's retention of 10% of the
estimated value of the work done under the terms of the
contract between the original contractor and the Government. That contract contained almost the same provisions for retention of the fund as the contract presently
before us. The Prairie Bank, contesting the surety s
claim, asserted that it had a superior equitable lien arising
from moneys advanced by the bank to the contractor
before the surety began to ccmplete the work. The
Court, in a well-reasoned opinion by Mr. Justice White,
held that this fund materially tended to protect the surety,
13See, e. g., Hampton v. Phipps, 108 U. S.260, 263 (1883); Lid-

derdale's Executors v. Robinson's Executor, 12 Wheat. 594 (1827);
Duncan, Fox, & Co. v. North and South Wales Bank, 6 App. Cas. 1
(H. L. 1880). See generally Sheldon, Subrogation, § 11 (1882).
?-#See cases collected in 50 Am. Jur., Subrogation, § 49 (1944).

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

that its creation raised an equity in the surety's favor,
that the United States was entitled to protect itself out
of the fund, and that the surety, by asserting the right of
subrogation, could protect itself by resort to the same
securities and same remedies which had been available to
the United States for its protection against the contractor.
The Cftrt then went on to quote with obvious approval
this statement from a state case:
"The law upon this subject seems to be, the reserved
per cent to be withheld until the completion of the
work to be done is as much for the indemnity of him
who may be a guarantor of the performance of the
contract As for him for whom it is to be performed.
And there is great justness in the rule adopted.
Equitably, therefore, the sureties in such cases are
entitled to have the sum agreed upon held as a fund
out of which they may be indemnified, and if the
principal releases it without their consent it discharges them from their undertaking." 164 U. S.,
at 239, quoting from Finney.v. Condon, 86 Ill. 78, 81
(1877).
The Prairie Bank case thus followed an already established doctrine that a surety who completes a contract
has an "equitable right" to indemnification out of a retained fund such'as the one claimed by the surety in the
present case. The only difference in the two cases is that
here the surety incurred his losses by paying debts for
the, contractor rather than by finishing the Contract.
The Henningsen case, decided 12 years later in 1908,
carried the Prairie Bank case still closer to ours. Henningsen had contracts with the United States to construct
public buildings. His surety stipulated not only that the
,contractor would perform and construct the buildings, but
also, as stated by the Court, that he would "pay promptly

PEARLMAN v. RELIANCE INS. CO.
132

Opinion of the Court.

and in full all persons supplying labor and material in.the
prosecution of the work contracted for." 15 Henningsen
completed the buildings according to contract but failed
to pay his laborers and materialmen. The surety paid.
This Court applied the equitable principles declared in
the Prairie Bank case so as to entitle the surety to the
same equitable claim to the retained fund that the surety
in the PrairieBank case was held to have. Thus the same
equitable rules as to subrogation and property interests in
a retained fund were heWl to exist whether a surety completes a contract or whether, though not called upon to
complete the contract, it pays the laborers and materialmen. These two cases therefore, together with other
cases that have followed them,' establish the surety's
right to subrogation, in such a fund whether its bond be
•for performance, or payment. Unless this rule has been
changed, the surety here has a right to this retained
fund.
It is argued that the Miller Act 17 changed the law as
declared in the PrairieBank and Henningsen cases. We
think not. -Certainly no language of the Act does, and
we have been pointed to no legislative history that indicates such a purpose. The suggestion is, however, that
a congressional purpose to repudiate the equitable doctrine of the two cases should be implied from the .fact that
the Miller Act required a public contract surety to execute two bonds instead.of the one formerly required. It
is true that the Miller Act did require both a performance
'15208 U. S., at 410.
See, e. g., Martin v. National Sur. Co., 85 F 2d 135 (C.A. 8th
Cir. 1936), aff'd, 300 U. S. 588 (1937); In re Scofield Co., 215 F.
45 (C. A. 2d Cir. 1914); National Sur. Corp. v. United States, 132
Ct. Cl. 724, 133 F. Supp. 381, cert. denied sub nom. First Nat. Bank
v. United States, 350 U. S. 902 (1955).
'T See note 2, supra.
16

OCTOBER TERM.,1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

bond and an additional payment bond, that is, one to
assure completion of the contact and one to assure payments by the contractor for materials and labor. But the
prior Acts on this subject, while requiring only one bond,
made it cover both performance and payment. 8 Neither
this slight difference in the new and the old Acts nor any
other argument presented persuades us that Congress in
passing the Miller Act intended to repudiate equitable
principles so deeply imbedded in our commercial practices, our economy, and our law as those spelled out in
the PrairieBank and Henningsen cases."9
The final argument is that the PrairieBank and Henningsen cases were in effect overruled by our holding and
opinion in United States v. Munsey Trust Co., supra. The
point at issue in that case was whether the United States
while holding a fund like the one in this case could offset
against the contractor a claim bearing no relationship to
the contractor's claim there at issue. We held that the
Government could exercise the well-established commonlaw right of debtors to offset claims of their own against
their creditors. This was all we held. The opinion
contained statements which some have interpreted o as
meaning that we were abandoning the established legal
and equitable principles of the PrairwBank and Henningsen cases under which sureties can indemnify themselves
against losses. But the equitable rights of a surety declared in the PrairieBank case as to sureties who com28 Stat. 278 (1894), amended, 33 Stat. 811 (1905).
19 Among the problems which would be raised by a contrary result
would be the unsettling of the usual view, grounded in commercial
practice, that suretyship is not insurance. This distinction is discussed in Cushman, Surety Bonds on Public and Priyate Construction
Projects, 46 A. B. A. J. 649, 652-653 (1960).
18

20

See note 8, supra.

PEARLMAN v. RELIANCE INS. CO.
132

Opinion of the Court.

plete the performance of a contract were expressly recognized and approved in Munsey,21 and the Henningsen
rule as to sureties who had not completed the contract
but had paid laborers was not mentioned. Henningsen
was not even cited in the Munsey opinion. We hold
that Munsey left the rule in PrairieBank and Henningsen undisturbed. We cannot say that such.a firmly established rule was so casually overruled.22
We therefore hold in accord with the established legal
principles stated above that the Government had a right
to use the retained fund to pay laborers and m 'erialmen;
that the laborers and materialmen had a righ :o be paid
out of the fund; that the contractor, had he completed his
job and paid his laborers and materialmen, would have
become entitled to the fund; and that the surety, having
paid the laborers and materialmen, is entitled to the benefit of all these rights to the extent necessary to reimburse
it.23 Consequently, since the surety in this case has paid
21
22

332 U. S., at 240.
State courts likewise apply the rule that sureties on public con-

tracts are entitled to the benefits of subrogation. See cases collected
in 43 Am. Jur., Public Works and Contracts, § 197 (1942).
23 See the somewhat different but closely related discussion by which
Mr. Justice Cardozo, speaking for this Court, reached a similar result
in Martin v. National Sur. Co., 300 U. S. 588, 597-598 (1937).
Our result has also been reached by the Court of Claims in cases
substantially like ours. Continental Cas. Co. v. United States, 145
Ct. Cl. 99, 169 F. Supp. 945 (1959); National Sur. Corp. v. United
States, 132 Ct. Cl. 724, 133 F. Supp. 381, cert. denied sub nom. First
Nat. Bank v. United States, 350 U. S. 902 (1955); Royal Indem. Co.
v. United States, 117 Ct. Cl. 736, 93 F. Supp. 891 (1950). See generally Speidel, "Stakeholder" Payments Under Federal Construction
Contracts: Payment Bond Surety vs. Assignee, 47 Va. L. Rev. 640,
646-648 (1961); note, Reconsideration of Subrogative Rights of the
Miller Act Payment Bond Surety, 71 Yale L. J. 1274 (1962);
comment, 33 Cornell L. Q. 443 (1948).

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
CLARK,

J., concurring in result.

371 U. S.

out more than the amount of the existing fund, it has a
right to all of it. On this basis the judgment of the Court
of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissents.
MR. JUSTICE CLARK, with whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
JUSTICE BRENNAN join, concurring in the result.

and MR.

The Court holds that the surety company here is
entitled to the funds the Government has paid into court
on the theory that the surety is subrogated to the claims
of .the laborers and materialmen which it has paid. I
cannot agree. None of the cases in this Court so hold.
Indeed, in United States v. Munsey Trust Co., 332 U. S.
234 (1947), this Court said:
"But nothing is more clear than that laborers and
materialmen do not have enforceable rights against
the United States for their compensation....
They cannot acquire a lien on public buildings . . .
and as a substitute for that more customary protection, the various statutes were passed which require
that a surety guarantee their payment. Of these, the
last and the one now in force is the Miller Act under
which the bonds here were drawn." Id., at p. 241.
"[I]t is elementary that one cannot acquire by
subrogation what another whose rights he claims
did not have. . .

."

Id., at p. .42.

Since the laborers and materialmen have no right against
the funds, it follows as clear as rain that the surety could
have none. It appears to me that today's holding that
laborers and materialmen had "rights" to funds in the
Government's hands might jeopardize the rights of the
United States and have serious consequences for its building operations. The Congress has not so provided and I
would not so hold.

PEARLMAN v. RELIANCE INS. CO.
132

CLARK,

J., concurring in result.

However, this Court has held in two cases not necessary
to the decision in Munsey that the surety who pays
laborers' and materialmen's claims stands in the shoes of
the United States and is entitled to surplus funds remaining in its hands after the contract is completed. The
first is Prairie State Bank v. United States, 164 U. S.
227 (1896), and the other Henningsen v. U. S. Fid. &
Guar. Co., 208 U. S. 404 (1908). In neither of those
cases, however, did the Court find that laborers and materialmen had any right against the United States but only
that the "Guaranty Company [was] entitled to subrogation to any right of the United States Government arising
..through the building contract." Henningsen, supra, at
p. 410.
Since the funds here have been paid into court by the
Government, there is some question whether the doctrine
of those cases would apply. In each of them the money
was in the hands of the United States at the time the suit
was commenced and was clearly applicable to payment
of any debt under the contract. It would, therefre, be
my view that the equities existing here in favor of the
surety grow out of the contract between it and the contractor (in whose shoes the trustee now stands), which
was made in consideration of the execution of the bond.
Under that agreement in the event of any breach or
default in the construction contract all sums becoming
due thereunder were assigned to the surety to be credited
against any loss or damage it might suffer thereby. In
Martin v. National Surety Co., 300 U. S. 588 (1937), this
Court in an identical situation* awarded such a fund to
*In Martin the contractor assigned to the surety "all the deferred
payments and retained percentages, and any and all moneys and properties that may be due and payable tr the undersigned at the time of
any breach or default in said contract, or ... thereafter . . . "

pp. 590--591.

Id., at

Here the assignment was of, inter alia, "Any and all

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
CLARK,

J., concurring in result.

371 U. S.

the surety. Mr. Justice Cardozo, for a unanimous Court,
said: "In our view of the law, the equities in favor of
materialmen growing out of that agreement [between the
surety and the contractor] were impressed upon the fund
in the possession of the court." Id., at pp. 593-594. It
is well to note also that the Court of Appeals in Martin
had based its decision on the theory announced by the
Court today, but Mr. Justice Cardozo for a unanimous
Court chose the "narrower" ground of the assignment in
affirming the judgment for the surety. I agree with
Martin as to the "narrower" ground and believe the Court
should keep the opinion today "within the necessities of
the specific controversy" rather than enlarging upon the
rules of Henningsen and Prairie State Bank. In so
doing the Court would but fulfill the prophecy made in
Martin that "the grounds chosen . . . may be expected
to be helpful as a guide in other cases." Id., at p. 593.
I would affirm the judgment on this basis.

percentages of the contract price retained on account of said contract,
and any and all sums that may be due under said contract at the time
of such .. .forfeiture or breach, or that thereafter may become
due . ..,"

