U. S. v. GEORGIA PUB. SERV. COMM'N.. .285
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. GEORGIA PUBLIC SERVICE
6OMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 81.

Argued October,18, 1962.-Decided January 14, 1963.

The United States sued in a Federal District Court to enjoin the
Georgia Public .Service Commission from prohibiting common carriers from contracting with agencies of the Federal Government for
the mass transportation within that State of the household goods
of civilian employees of the Federal Government, at rates other
than those prescribed by the Georgia Commission. A three-judge
District Court convened to hear the case denied an injunction,
and the United States appealed directly to this Court. Held:
1. This case is one "required" to be heard by a three-judge
District Court, and a direct appeal to this Court was properly
taken under 28 U. S. C. § 1253. Pp. 287-288.
2. Fdderal procurement statutes provide for the negotiation of
special rates for transporting household goods of federal employees
at government expense; and the State could not defeat the purpose
of this legislation by prohibiting the common carriers from transporting such goods intrastate at rates other than those prescribed
by the Georgia Public Service Commission. Public Utilities Commission of California v. United States, 355 U. S. 534. Pp. 288-293.
197 F. Supp. 793, reversed.

Solicitor General CQx argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Assistant Attorney
General Loevinger and Lionel Kestenbaum.
Paul Rodgers, Assistant Attorney General of Georgia,
argued the cause for appellee. With him on the brief was
Eugene Cook, Attorney General.

Austin L. Roberts, Jr. filed a brief for the National
Association of Railroad & Utilities Commissioners, as
amicus curiae, urging affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Civilian employees of the Federal Government were
reassigned from Savannah to Atlanta, Georgia, and the
General Services Administration sought to arrange by
competitive bidding for the intrastate mass shipment of
their household goods between those cities. Georgia
law, however, does not permit a rate for transporting
household goods of more than one family; it requires
carriers to quote schedules of approved rates, the total
charge to be the sum of the charges figured for individual
families.1 Five carriers submitted bids quoting rates
lower than those allowed by the Georgia tariff. After the
competitive bidding was over and the contract awarded
to the lowest responsible bidder, the Georgia Public Service Commission threatened these five carriers with revocation of their intrastate operating certificates should they
perform at the rates quoted GSA. The successful bidder
thereupon notified GSA that it was unable to perform
the contract. Appellee instituted proceedings against
the carrier, looking toward the revocation of its certificate.
The United States sought to intervene in that proceeding
but it was not allowed to do so. Appellee also refused to
allow a GSA official to testify as to the circumstances of
the shipping contract that the Commission claimed conflicted with Georgia law.
Thereupon the United States filed suit in the District
Court and requested the convocation of a three-judge
court. The complaint alleged, inter alia, that Georgia
law burdened federal officers in carrying out their federal functions and conflicted with federal procurement
'See Ga. Household Goods Tariff No. I-B, GPSC-MF No. 3,
Rules 8 and 15. The latter provides in part that "Property of two or
more families or establishments will not be accepted for transportation as a single shipment."

U. S. v. GEORGIA PUB. SERV. COMM'N.
285

287

Opinion of the Court.

policy. The issue as finally joined raises squarely those
questions. The District Court held that there was no conflict between Georgia's regulatory scheme and the federal
one, concluding that the case is governed by Penn Dairies,
Inc., v. Milk Control Comm'n, 318 U. S. 261. See 197 F.
Supp. 793. The case is here on direct appeal (28 U. S. C.
§§ 1253, 2101 (b)); we postponed consideration of the
question of jurisdiction until a hearing on the merits.
369-U. S.882.
We have'jurisdiction of this appeal if the case was
"required . .7. to be heard and determined by a district
court of thre judges." 28 U. S. C. § 1253. The question
whether the Georgia regulatory scheme is unconstitutional
because it burdened the exercise by the United States of
its power to maintain a civilian service and to carry out
other constitutional functions is a substantial one, as our
decisions in Penn Dairies, Inc., v. Milk Control Comm'n,
supra; Public Utilities C'omm'n of California v. United
States, 355 U. S.534, and Paul v. United States, ante,
p. 245, decided this day, show, and therefore required a
three-judge court to adjudicate it. 28 U. S. C. § 2281;
Idlewild Bon Voyage Liquor Corp. v. Epstein, 370 U. S.
713; FloridaLime Growers v. Jacobsen;362 U. S.73. We
have presented here m6re than an isolated issue whether
i state law conflicts with a federal statute and therefore
must give way by reason of the Supremacy Clause. Cf.
Kesler v. Department.of Public Safety, 369 U. S. 153.
Direct conflict between a state law and federal constitutional provisions raises of course a question under the
Supremacy Clause but one of a broader scope than where
the alleged conflict is only between a state statute aid a
federal statute that might be resolved by the construction
. given either the state or the federal law. Id., 157. So
we have a clear case for convening a three-judge court.
Once convened the case can be disposed. of below or here
on any ground, whether or not it would have justified the

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

calling of a three-judge court. See Sterling v. Constantin,
287 U. S.378, 393-394; Railroad Comm'n v. Pacific Gas
Co., 302 U. S.388, 391.
The District Court, acting on motions for summary
judgment filed by each of the parties, said that were the
property being transported "strictly governmental property," the case would be governed by Public Utilities
Comn'n of California v. United States, 355 U. S. 534.
But since the property involved here is household goods,
not military supplies, the court concluded that the case is
controlled by Penn Dairies,Inc., v. Milk Control Comm'n,
supra.
The distinction drawn by the District Court between
this case and Public Utilities Comm'n of California v.
United States,'supra,is not tenable. Between 1943, when
Penn Dairieswas decided, and 1958, when Public Utilities
Comm'n of Californiawas decided, Congress enacted the
Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947, 62 Stat. 21,
later codified without substantial change, 70A Stat. 127,
10 U. S. C. § 2301 et seq., which extended and elaborated
the federal procurement policy of negotiated rates which,
as we noted in the Public Utilities Comm'n of California
case, conflicted with California's policy of regulated
rates. 355 U. S., at 544. The federal Regulation involved in that case was superseded in 1958 by the Military Traffic Management Regulation.2 That Regulation
includes the "procedures to govern the movement of uncrated household goods." s Another Regulation provides
that their transportation is authorized "by the mode of
transportation . . . which results in the lowest over-all
.cost to the Government and which provides the required
service satisfactorily."'
This entails "negotiation" with
2

Promulgated March 1958, as amended to October 10, 1960.

3

Id., c. 101,

101001.

' Joint Travel Regulations, c. 8, April 1, 1959, as amended to Octo-

ber 1, 1961,

8001.

U. S. v. GEORGIA PUB. SERV. COMM'N. 289
Opinion of the Court.

285

carriers for "rates" 5 on military traffic and "Special arrangements pertaining to-other freight traffic." ' Examples could be multiplied but enough has been said to show
that the new Military Traffic Management Regulation
continues in effect the provisions of: the earlier regulation in force when the Public Utilities Comm'n of
California case was decided.
The same policy of negotiating rates for shipment of
federal property now governs nondefense agencies. The
basic statute is the Federal Property and Administrative
Services Act of 1949, 63 Stat-. 383, 40 U. S. C. § 481, 63
Stat. 393, as amended, 41 U. S. C. § 251 et seq. Its
procurement provisions are substantially similar to those
contained in the Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947.
It was, indeed, enacted to extend to GSA "the principles of
the Armed Services Procurement Act of 1947, with appropriate modifications principally designed to eliminate
provisions applicable primarily to the military." H. R.
Rep. No. 670, 81st Cong., 1st Sess., p. 6. Under the regulations promulgated pursuant to this Act, procurement of
transportation and improvement of transportation and
traffic practices of executive agencies are entrusted to the
Commissioner of the Transportation and Public Utilities Service (TPUS).1 He is to represent the execut0ie agencies "in negotiations bf rates and contracts for
transportation."8 The Commissioner in procurement
and contracting
"(a) Negotiates purchases and contracts for property and services without advertising, and makes any
Military Traffic Management Regulation, amended to November

5, 1959, c. 201,

201001.(b).

6

Id., 2.01001 (k).
7 General Services Adm. Order, ADM 5450.3, change 4,
TPS. 7460.1, Attachment, 3, March 15, 1960.
4.
s ADM, supra, 141b; TPS 7460.1,
9
Id., 142a.

141a;

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

determinations and decisions required in connection
therewith ....
"(b) Makes purchases and contracts for property
and services by advertising, and determines that the
rejection of all bids is in the public interest'.
"(c) Determines the type of negotiated contract which will promote the best interests of the
Government ....

.

The Regulation governing the Commissioner's functions
enjoins him:
"to evaluate mass movements of household goods and
personal effects and, when feasible, to negotiate with
carriers to effect the most economical basis for the
movement of such household goods and personal
effects." 10
"Except when the exigency of the movement precludes
such action, all requests for rates for mass movements.
bids] ...

.

shall be made by formal advertising
." 11

[for

That Regulation is plainly within. the purview of the
Act, which provides in § 302, as amended, 41 U. S. C.
§ 252, as follows:
"All purchases and contracts for property and
services shall be made by advertising, as provided in
section 253 of this title, except that such purchases
and contracts may be negotiated by the agency head
without advertising if"(2) the public exigency will not -admit of the
delay incident to advertising;
TPS 7460.1, 3.
1 Id., Attachment,

10

7b (1)

U. S. v. GEORGIA PUB: SERV. COMM'N.
285

291

Opinion of the Court.

"(10) for property or services for which it is
impracticable to secure competition;
"(14) for property or services as to which the
agency head determines that bid prices after advertising therefor are not reasonable . . . or have nbt
,been independently arrived at in open competition:
'Provided, That . . . (B) the negotiated price is the
lowest negotiated prie offered by any responsible
supplier

...

Section 253 (b) provides that awards shall be made "to
that responsible bidder whose bid . . will be most
advantageous to the Government, price and other factors
considered." Moreover, 40 U. S. C. § 481 (a) (4) directs
GSA to represent executive agencies "in negotiations with
carriers" with respect to transportation "for the use of
executive agencies." Transfer of household goods of
federal employees, whether military 12 or civilian, has
been made by Congress a charge against federal funds
when employees are transferred from one official station
to another.2
It is said that the 1949 Act gives the Administrator
power to deal only with whoever has authority to make
rate decisions, whether it be the carrier on interstate shipments or the state regulatory- agency on intrastate
shipments. 40 U. S. C. § 481 does indeed provide:
"The Administrator shall, in respect of executive
agencies, and to the extent that he determines that so
doing is advantageous to the Government in terms
of economy, efficiency, or service, and with due
regard to the program activities of the agencies
concerned12 63

Stat. 813, as amended, 37 U. S. C. § 253 (c).

1 60 Stat. 806, as amended, 5 U. S. C. § 73k-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
Opinion of the Court.

371 U. S.

."(4) with respect to transportation and other
public utility services for the use of executive agencies, represent such agencies in negotiationswith carriers and other public utilities and in proceedings
involving carriers or other public utilities before
Federal and State regulatory bodies . . ."
(Emphasis added.)
But that provision does not say that state-fixed rates
govern the federal procurement official unless he can get
them changed. It is comparable to § 22 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 22, which allows the United
States to obtain preferred rates. "The object of the section was to settle, beyond doubt, that the preferential
treatment of certain classes of shippers and travelers . . .
is not necessarily prohibited." Nashville R. Co. v. Tennessee, 262 U. S. 318, 323. And see Southern R. Co. v.
United States, 322 U. S. 72; United States v. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n, 352 U. S. 158, 174.
By § 481 (a) the Administrator is authorized to seek
before state agencies preferential treatment for federal
shipments. But there is not a word suggesting that, failing in that regard, he is bound to accept the state-fixed
rate. The Act and the Regulation speak too clearly in
terms of the "lowest over-all cost" to the Government,
either through competitive bidding or negotiation with
carriers, for us to conclude that the only relief against
state fixed rates is an administrative remedy before the
state agency either through nogotiation or litigation.
Congress has not tied the hands of the federal procurement
officials so tightly.
'We hae then a federal procurement policy of negotiated rates for transporting household goods of federal
employees-a policy as clear and as explicit as the federal
policy for transporting military supplies involved in
Public Utilities Comm'n of California v. United States,

U. S. v. GEORGIA PUB. SERV. COMM'N. 293
285

STEWART, J.,

dissenting.

supra. The Georgia policy, which is opposed to this federal policy, must accordingly give way. For as we noted
in Public Utilities Comm'n of Californiav. United States,
supra, at 544, a State is without power by reason of the
Supremacy Clause to provide the conditions on which the
Federal Government will effectuate its policies. Whether
the federal policy is a wise one is for the Congress and the
Chief Executive to determine. See Perkins V. Lukens
Steel Co., 310 U. S. 113, 127 et seq. Once they have
spoken it is our function to enforce their will.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE STEWART, whom MR. JUSTICE HARTLN and
MR. JUSTICE GOLDBERG

join, dissenting.

The governing law in this case is Title III of the Federal
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949,1 .but
that Act simply "extends to the General Services Agency
the principles of the Armed Services Procurement Act
of 1947." 2 In Paul v. United States, ante, p. 270, I have
stated why I think those principles clearly contemplate
that government procurement is to be conducted within
the framework of valid state regulatory legislation. For
the reasons there stated, I also dissent from the Court's
judgment in this case.
Only one additional consideration needs mention here.
The Court purports to find some additional support for
the result in this case in one provision of the 1949 Act
which has no counterpart in the 1947 Act. Section
201 (a) of the 1949 Act 3 provides, in pertinent part,
"(a) The Administrator shall . . .
163 Stat. 393, as amended, 41 U. S. C. §§ 251-260.
; H. R. Rep. No 670, 81st Cong., 1st Sess. 6.
A 63 Stat. 383, as amended, 40 U. S. C. § 481 (a).

. 294

OCTOBER TERM, 1962.
SWWART,

J., dissenting.

371 U. S.

"(4) with respect to transportation and other
public utility services for the use of executive
agencies, represent such agencies in negotiations with
carriers and other public utilities and in proceedings
involving carriers or other public utilities before Federal and State regulatorybodies . . . ." (Emphasis
added.)
The Court seizes upon the words "in negotiations with
carriers" as evidence that Congress authorized the Administrator to by-pass state rate schedules when placing
contr'acts for intrastate transportation.
Far from supporting the Court's position, I think
§ 201 (a) is simply another example of Congress' basic
assumption that state price regulation will remain applicable to federal procurement transactions. The section
refers both to negotiations with individual carriers and to
proceedings before regulatory agencies. It seems to me
that the authorization of these alternative procedures
must be read against the background of § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 22, which provides that
I. C. C. rate schedules governing interstate shipments are
not to apply to transportation for the Federal Government. In light of this express statutory exemption for
interstate shipments, it appears quite clear that § 201 (a)
says nothing more than that the Administrator has power
to deal with whoever has authority to make rate decisions--with the carrier for interstate shipments, and with
state regulatory agencies for intrastate shipments when
regulated by state law.
4

The same conclusion must, be drawn from the several regulations

cited by the Court.

When read infull, both the military and civilian

transportation regulations seem to anticipate that procurement officers will deal sometimes directly with individual carriers, and some-

U. S. v. GEORGIA PUB. SERV. COMM'N.
285

STEWART,

295

J ., dissenting.

Footnote 4-Continued.
times with a regulatory body. The Executive Director, Military
Traffic Management Agency, is made responsible for:
"Negotiation with all for-hire carriers of cargo or their rate-making
agencies for classifications, rates, charges, rules and regulations on
military traffic ... " Chapter 201, Military Traffic Management
Regulation, March 1958, as amended to November 5, 1959.
Similarly, regulations governing nonmilitary transportation make the
Transportation. and Public Utilities Service responsible for: .
"the provision of advice and e.-pert testimony on behalf of executive agencies in proceedings before Federal and State regulatory
bodies involving transportation,, public utilities [and] communications . . . ." General Services Adm. Order, ADM 5450.3, Change 4,
July 31, 1959, § 1, 141 (b).

