OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

should have been overruled and the city of Los Angeles put
upon its answer.
For the reasons herein stated, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of California is reversed and the cause remanded to
that court for further proceedings not in conflict with this
opinion.

DALY v. ELTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 108. Argued October 11,12, 1904.-Decided November 14, 1904.

Decided on authority of Dobbins v. Los Angeles, ante, p. 223.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lynn Helm and Mr. Edward C. Bailey, with whom Mr.
Henry T. Lee, Mr. J. R. Scott and Mr. Charles W. Chase were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. B. Mathews, with whom Mr. Herbert J. Goudge was
on the brief, for defendant in error.1
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is practically determined by views expressed in
Dobbins v. The City of Los Angeles, just decided. It was a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus to discharge Daly from
custody, in a prosecution under the ordinance under consideration in the Dobbins case. The prayer of the petition was
denied and the writ discharged. In re Daly, 139 California,
1 This

case was argued simultaneously with the preceding case and for

abstracts of arguments, see ante, p. 226.

BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.
195 U. S.

Statemeat of the Case.

216. Under the California practice, in the absence of issue
joined the allegations of the petition are taken as true and the
facts alleged therein are taken as admitted. In re Smith, 77
Pac. Rep. 180. The petition made allegations attacking the
ordinance which, if true, would render it invalid for the reasons stated in the Dobbins case, supra, and the petitioner
upon the record made should have been discharged from
custody.
It is therefore ordered that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of California be reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with the views announced in
the Dobbins case, supra.

BRADFORD v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE UNITED

APPEALS

STATES

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 151. Submitted October 19, 1904.-Decided November 28, 1904.

The act of July 20, 1892, providing when a plaintiff may sue as a poor
person, does not apply to appellate proceedings.
Federal appellate courts have no power to permit prosecutions in forma
pauperis in the absence of a statute.

THIS case is brought here on the following certificate:
"This was an action of tort. The plaintiff was a citizen
of Tennessee, and the defendant a corp6ration organized under the laws of Virginia. The jurisdiction of the court below
was wholly dependent upon diversity of citizenship. There
was a jury and verdict against the plaintiff in error and a
judgment accordingly.
"The plaintiff in error sued out this writ of error, and has
lodged with the clerk of this court, within the time required
by law, a full transcript of the record in the court below. The
(243),

