NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 439
195 U. S.

Syllabus.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. AMERICAN TRADING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 24. Argued October 26, 27, 1904.-Decided December 5, 1904.

A shipper in New York, after stating that he was about to make a contract of sale of lead in Japan during the Chinese-Japanese War, and
that time of delivery was of vital importance, made a written contract
with the general eastern agent of the Northern Pacific Railroad, then
being operated under order of the court, by receivers, for shipment of
200 tons of lead at a given rate, to be shipped from Newark before a
certain date to Tacoma and thence by Northern Pacific steamer sailing
on a specified date. The receivers had a contract with the steamship
coml5any authorizing it to make through rates to Asiatic ports. The
lead was shipped by the required date and after shipment the clerk of
the shipper was given a bill of lading of the railroad company which he
did not read and which contained a provision that the railroad company
was not liable beyond its own line and which the shipper hypothecated
with his bank as collateral. The lead reached Tacoma and was loaded
on the steamer sailing on the day specified but the subcollector refused
a clearance on the ground that the lead was contraband of war. The
master thereupon unloaded the lead, obtained the clearance and sailed.
The collector in answer to inquiries of the subcollector notified him not
to withhold the clearance, but the vessel had sailed and the shipment
was delayed so that it did- not reach Japan until six weeks after the
vessel specified in the contract, and after hostilities between China and
Japan had ceased. Meanwhile the price of lead had fallen and the lead
was sold at a loss. In an action by the shipper against the Northern
Pacific Railway Company, which had acquired the road subject to all
liabilities of the receivers. Held:
That the agent of the receivers was not the agent of the steamship company, but the contract made by him was on behalf of the receivers who
assumed responsibility beyond the line of their own road; that under the
order appointing them and directing them to operate the road, the receivers had power to make a contract of this nature and that it was
within the scope of the powers of a general agent to make the contract
on their behalf.
That a special written contract to transport by more than one line and to
deliver within a specified time is not affected by a provision in the
printed part of a through bill of lading, delivered as this was after the
shipment of the goods, to the effect that the responsibility of the carrier
issuing the bill of lading ceases at the terminus of its own line.

OCTO3ER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

That as it is not illegal to export articles which are contraband of war although the articles and the ship which carries them are subject to the risk
of capture and forfeiture, neither any law of the United States nor any
provision of international law was violated by the making of the contract notwithstanding the lead was contraband and was to be delivered
in the port of a belligerent.
That a collector cannot legally refuse a clearance to a vessel bound to a
port of a belligerent because it has on board articles contraband of war.
That the mistaken act of a subordinate official not justified by law in refusing a clearance to a vessel entitled to sail is not sufficient as an excuse for the nonperformance of the contract similar to that involved in
this case and is not a "restraint of princes, rulers or people" within that
clause of the bill of lading.

THE Northern Pacific Railroad . Company made a certain
mortgage which was foreclosed, and the Northern Pacific Railway Company purchased the property of the former company
under the mortgage at the foreclosure sale, and, by the order
of the court, the purchaser was required to pay all obligations
or liabilities contracted or incurred by the court's receivers,
who had been appointed in the foreclosure suit. The American Trading Company, the appellee herein, intervened in that
suit, and, by its petition, asked that by virtue of the decree
in foreclosure the purchaser, the Northern Pacific Railway
Company, be required to pay damages for the failure of the
receivers to perform a special contract for the transportation
of goods from Newark, New Jersey, to Yokohama, in Japan.
The case was tried before the United States Circuit Court in
New York City, which dismissed the petition. This decision
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, and the railroad company was directed to pay the
damages therein stated to the American Trading Company,
the intervening petitioner. The railroad company has appealed from such decree or order to this court. The case was
tried upon the agreed statement of facts which follows:
1. In September, 1894, Thomas F. Oakes, Henry C. Payne
and Henry C. Rouse were receivers of the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company, under an order made in a suit bearing
the same title as the present suit, in the United States Circuit

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 441
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, to which this suit
is ancillary-. Under that order the receivers were authorized
to continue, and were continuing to carry on the business of
the railroad in their charge.
2. The line of railroad in the possession of the receivers
extended from Duluth, Minnesota, to Tacoma, Washington.
The receivers had contracts with various carriers reaching
points on their line, by which through bills of lading were
issued from and to points not upon the line of the receivers'
railroad, where the freight passed over some part of that line
in transit. Among the carriers with whom the receivers had
such arrangements was the Northern Pacific Steamship Company. This was an English company, operating a line of
steamers between Tacoma and points in Japan and China,
including Yokohama. The contract between the steamship
company and the receivers was the contract originally made
on March 30, 1892, between the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company and the Northern Pacific Steamship Company, and
ratified and adopted by the receivers under the authority of
an order of the Circuit Court of the United States, made on
September 13, 1893.
The receivers held no stock in the steamship company and
had no other express contract relation with the steamship
company. This stipulation is not to be accepted as an admission by the railroad company or the receivers or their
counsel, that there were any relations between the receivers
and the steamship company other than those growing out of
the facts herein agreed upon.
For convenience in transacting their freight business in the
eastern part of the United States, the receivers maintained
an office in the city of New York, which was, in September,
1894, in charge of one George R. Fitch, who was their general
eastern agent, and made arrangements for the transportation
of freight over the receivers' line of railway and connections,
including transportation to China and Japan.
At the time of the transactions referred to in this state-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

ment of facts, the said Fitch had not received, nor did he
receive, any direct or independent appointment or authority
from the Northern Pacific Steamship Company to act as agent
of that company. His only authority as agent of the steamship company was that created by, or arising from, the contract, Exhibit A. Fitch knew that an arrangement had been
concluded by the receivers and the steamship company by
which contracts for through shipment to Yokohama might be
made by the agents of the receivers, and through bills of lading issued, and he had been instructed by the receivers to
solicit freight for through transportation upon bills of lading
of which Exhibit C, hereto annexed, is a copy; but Fitch did
not know the terms of the contract between the steamship
company and the receivers, and the trading company did not
know what company operated the steamships between Tacoma
and Yokohama, or that the steamship company was a separate
and independent company, or that there was any contract
between the receivers and the steamship company.
It is further stipulated that Fitch had no express general
authority to make contracts for through transportation, except as provided by the said bills of lading, and no authority
to make the contract in question, unless such express authority
be found in the telegrams, of which copies are hereinafter set
forth; that the American Trading Company did not know the
terms of his express authority, and that this stipulation is not
to be taken as an admission by the railroad company or the
receivers or their counsel that his implied authority was
greater than his express authority.
4. The American Trading Company is, and was in September, 1894, a corporation organized under the laws of the State
of Connecticut, having its principal office in the city of New
York, and carried on a general commercial business with
Asiatic ports.
5. In September, 1894, the trading company applied to
Fitch for a rate upon a proposed shipment of pig lead from
New York to Yokohama, Japan, and informed him that it

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 443
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

was of vital importance that the lead should be transported
promptly and go forward by the earliest possible steamer,
without delay, in order to enable the trading company to
fulfill a proposed agreement which it was about to make for
the sale of the lead in Japan, and which would require its
delivery there at a fixed date. Fitch thereupon named a rate
and undertook to forward the lead from New York on or
before September 29th and via the Northern Pacific steamer
"Tacoma," sailing from Tacoma October 30, 1894.
6. Thereupon the trading company cabled to its agents
at Yokohama, naming a price and a date at which the lead
could be delivered there; and thereupon its agents in Yokohama made a contract for the sale of the lead, which contract
provided that it should be delivered in Yokohama by overland route, and the most direct connection at San Francisco,
Tacoma or Vancouver, and that in case of unusual or extraordinary delay in transit the jontract should be null and void.
Neither Fitch nor the receivers knew until September 24th
that any contract for the sale of lead in Japan had been. concluded by the trading company, and, except as hereinbefore
and hereinafter stated, they never received any information
in regard to its terms, as made or proposed. Upon the conclusion of its Japanese contract the trading company purchased two hundred tons of pig lead in bond from the Balbeck
Smelting and Refining Company.
7. On September 19, 1894, Fitch, in confirmation of his
previous statement, wrote and sent to the trading company
the following letter:
Northern PacifE Railroad Company.
Thomas F. Oakes, Henry C. Payne, Henry C. Rouse, receivers.
Geo. R. Fitch, general eastern agent, 319 Broadway.
TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT, NEW YORK CITY, September 19, 1894.

American Trading Co. 182 Front St. city.
GENTLEMEN: I hereby confirm rate quoted you this day

444

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

and accepted by you on shipment of pig lead for export to
Japan, as follows:
Pig lead, New York to Yokohama, Japan, $15.00 per ton
of 2000 lbs., shipment not to consist of less than 400,000 lbs.
and to be forwarded from New York on or before Sept. 29th,
in accordance with shipping instructions given you by me
and to be forwarded from Tacoma, Wash., via Northern Pacific steamer sailing from thence October 30th. Kindly forward your acceptance of the above as early as possible. Thank
ing you for the favor, I remain,
Yours truly,
GEO. R. FITCH,
G. E. Agent.
The trading company wrote and sent in reply (accepting
the proposition) the following letter:
September 20th, 1894.
The Northern Pacific R. R. Co., New York city.
DEAR SiRs: In reply to your esteemed favor Sept. 19th, we
beg to accept the rate quoted to us in your letter of Sept. 19th,
namely, on 200 tons pig lead, N. Y. to Yokohama, Japan,
$15.00 per ton of 2000 lbs., shipment not to consist of less than
400,000 lbs., to be forwarded from N. Y. on or before September 29th, in accordance with shipping instructions to be
given by you, and to be forwarded from Tacoma, Washington,
via Northern Pacific steamr sailing from that port Oct. 30th.
Kindly let us know as soon as possible the shipping instructions, so that we can forward them to our supplier, and oblige,
with best respects,
Very truly yours,
THE AMERICAN TRADING CO.

(Signed)

FRANK P. BAL.

On September 22, 1894, Fitch wrote and sent to the trading company the following letter, giving shipping instructions:

NORTHERN PAC RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 445
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
Thomas F. Oakes, Henry C. Payne, Henry C. Rouse, receivers.
Geo. R. Fitch, general eastern agent, 319 Broadway.
TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT, NEW YORK CITY,

September 22, 1894.

American Trading Co., No. 182 Front St., city.
DEAR SIR: I hereby confirm routing given you over the
telephone yesterday on your shipment of pig lead for export
to Yokohama, Japan, as follows :--To be shipped from Newark,
N. J., via Penn. R. R. marked Anchor Line rail and Lake care
Northern Pacific care A. 0. Canfield, agent N. P. R. R.,
Tacoma, Wash. Please advise me as soon as possible who
the shippers will be that I may order the cars and also see
that same are rushed through without delay to connect with
our steamer at Tacoma.
Yours truly,
GEo. R. FITCH, G. E. Agent,
A. H. P.

8. Before naming a rate for the transportation of the lead,
Fitch had expressed some doubt as to whether it might not
be excluded from transportation as contraband in view of the
war then existing between China and Japan. In fact, the
shipment of pig lead was not prohibited by the Treasury
Department at Washington, during the war between China
and Japan, and on September 25th, 1894, the trading company made another shipment of pig lead via Pacific Mail
steamer sailing from San Francisco, which was, without
trouble or delay, transported and delivered in Yokohama.
9. In September, 1894, J. B. Baird was the second assistant
general freight agent of the receivers, and J. M. Hannaford
was the general freight agent of the receivers; and telegrams
of which the following are copies, relating to proposed shipments of pig lead, including the shipment in question, passed
between the said Fitch and Baird and Hannaford, but were
not disclosed to the American Trading Company:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

NEW YORK, September 14, 1894.
J. B. Baird, second A. G. F. A.:
Please wire quick lowest rate one hundred ton lots pig lead
from Chicago and Duluth to Yokohama.
GEO. R. FITCH.
Geo. R. Fitch, 319
You may quote
seventy cents from
hundred ton lots.

September- 14, 1894.
Broadway, New York, N. Y.:
as low as sixty cents from Duluth and
Chicago to Yokohama on pig lead in one
Get more if possible.
J. B. BAIRD.
NEW YORK,

September 17, 1894.

J. B. Baird, 2d A. G. F. A.:
Your wire fourteenth. Shall I accept fifty cents on pig
lead Duluth to Yokohama. Also name lowest rate on two
hundred tons St. Louis to Yokohama.
GEo. R. FITCH.
September 18th, 1894.
Geo. R. Fitch, 319 Broadway, New York.
Cannot accept less than sixty cents on pig lead Duluth to
Yokohama. Will quote from St. Louis later.
0.900.
J. B. BAIRD. WDB.
September 19th, 1894.
G. R. Fitch, 319 Broadway, New York:
You may quote seventy cents on the pig lead in one
hundred ton lots St. Louis to Yokohama. Advise if accepted.
0.900.
J. B. BAIRD. WDB.
NEW YORK, September 21, 1894.
J. B. Baird, N. P. R'y, St. Paul, Minn.:
Wire best rate two hundred fifty tons pig lead Duluth to
Shanghai.
GEo. R. FITCH.

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 447
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

,September 22, 1894.
G. R. Fitch, 319 Broadway, New York:
N. P. Steamship Co. have now declined to handle lead for
Yokohama, Kobe, Hong Kong or Shanghai. Please cancel
your quotation.
J. B. BAIRD. WDB.
0.900.
On September 24, 1894, Fitch informed the trading company that he declined to ship the lead upon the ground that
it might be contraband of war, and thereupon on the same
day the trading company wrote him a letter stating that they
would hold his company responsible for any loss from failure
to fulfill the contract, which letter is as follows:
September 24th, 1894.
Geo. R. Fitch, Esq., general eastern agent N. P. R. R.,
No. 319 Broadway, city.
DEAR SIR: Respecting your notice just received by us
through your Mr. Post, that your company now decline to
ship for us via Tacoma the 200 tons of pig lead specified in
your contract with us under date Sept. 19th, and confirmed
by us under date Sept. 20th, we beg to advise that we shall
hold your company responsible for any loss or damage we
may suffer from the non-fulfilment of this contract with you.
We remain, dear sirs,
Very truly yours,
THE AMERICAN TRADING CO.

(Signed)

Wm. H. STEVENS, Treas.

Thereupon, telegrams of which the following are copies
were sent and received as indicated, in relation to the shipment in question, but were not disclosed to the trading company:
NEw YORK, September 24, 1894.
J. B. Baird, N. P. R'y, St. Paul, Minn.:
Shipment lead to Yokohama is now being made shippers

OCTOBER TERI, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

refuse to accept withdrawal, we have given shippers written
contract.
GEO. R. FITCH.
NEw YORK, September 24, 1894.
J. M. Hannaford, N. P. R'y, St. Paul, Minn.:
Have notified American Trading Co., that shipment will
be refused. They state they will hold us to contract. They
are shipping hundred tons from Denver to Yokohama by
steamer City of Rio from San Francisco, Oct. fourth and
expect to forward this shipment same way, will charge us
difference in rate. Advice quick.
GEo. R. FITCH.
September 25, 1894.
G. R. Fitch, 319 Broadway, New York:
Your wire this date to Mr. Hannaford: Dodwell, Carlill &
Co. have consented to accept the lead already contracted.
Do not contract for any more. Advise quick number of
pounds contracted by you and say how it will be routed.
Think we should receipt for lead subject to delay.
J. B. BAIRD. WDB.
0/900.
Dodwell, Carlill & Co., mentioned in the last telegram,
represented the steamship company.
10. Thereupon the refusal to accept the shipment was withdrawn, and the shipment was made under the contract, and
the lead, consisting of two hundred tons, was, in accordance
with the shipping instructions given in Fitch's letter of September 22, 1894, shipped at Newark, New Jersey, on September 27th, 1894, by the Balbeck Smelting and Refining
Company for the account of the American Trading Company.
This was the first shipment ever made by the American Trading Company over the line of the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company and its connecting carriers. The shipment was made
in bond for exportation at Tacoma, and was secured upon the
cars by Government locks and customs seals. On the after-

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 449
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

noon of September 27, 1894, the shipment left Newark, and
started on its journey, and was transferred via the Anchor
Line, a carrier operating between eastern points and points
on the Lakes, to Duluth, and carried from Duluth via the
receivers' railroad to Tacoma, which it reached in time for
shipment by the steamship company's steamer, "Tacoma,"
sailing October 30, 1894. On September 28th, a cheque for
the freight upon the lead from Newark to Yokohama was
handed by the trading company to Fitch, of which cheque,
with its endorsements, the following is a copy:
oCheque.

NEW YORK, September 28", 1894. No. 6096.
The National Bank of North America.
SPay to the order of the Northern Pacific R. R. $3360.05.
0
Thirty-three hundred and sixty & 05/100 dollars.
THE AMERICAN TRADING CO.

WM. H. STEVENS, Treas'r.

A. PROCTOR, JR.,
Cashier.
Endorsements.
For deposit in
Ninth National Bank
to Cr. of Geo. R. Fitch,
Gen. east'n ag't.
Ninth Nat'l Bank,
Endorsement,
guaranteed
of the City of N. Y.
The amount of the cheque was credited at the Ninth National Bank to the account of "George R. Fitch, General
Eastern Agent," which was the style of the account opened
by Fitch as agent of the Northern Pacific Railroad; and the
account was never drawn upon in favor of the Northern
Pacific Steamship Company, but all through freights received
VOL. cxcv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

were deposited to the credit of this account and remitted to
the railroad company, or its receivers, and were divided and
distributed by them under their contract with the steamship
company.
11. On September 28, 1894, a shipping receipt for the shipment was issued to the Balbeck Smelting and Refining Company, of which shipping receipt a copy is hereto annexed
marked Exhibit "B," and was delivered by the Balbeck
Smelting and Refining Company to the American Trading
Company, and was forthwith surrendered by the trading
company to Fitch.
A bill of lading in the usual printed form, a copy of which
is herein annexed marked "C," was subsequently issued by
Fitch to the American Trading Company. It was received by
a clerk of the trading company without stated objection to its
terms, but was not read or examined by him or by any officer
of the company, and was immediately hypothecated with the
Hong Kong and Shanghai bank, as collateral security for
moneys borrowed thereon by the trading company. The
original of the bill of lading was negotiable, and did not have
stamped upon it the words "not negotiable, shippers copy,"
which appear on the shipper's copy hereto annexed, but was
similar to the shipper's copy in all other respects.
On September 29th, 1894, Fitch sent a copy of this bill of
lading to Dodwell, Carlill & Co., with a letter (not disclosed
to the American Trading Company) of which the following
is a copy:
Northern Pacific Railroad Company.
Thomas F. Oakes, Henry C. Payne, Henry C. Rouse, receivers.
George R. Fitch, general eastern agent, 319 Broadway.
TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT, NEW YORK CITY,

Sept. 29, 1894.

Dodwell, Carlill & Co., Tacoma, Wash.
GENTLEMEN: I hand you herewith my B/L 1507 covering
shipment of pig lead for export to Amer. Trading Co. Yokohama, Japan. As I have previously advised you, I have made

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 451
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

contract guaranteeing delivery of this shipment at Yokohama by our S. S. Tacoma sailing Oct. 30th. Will you kindly
see that this connection is made without fail.
Yours truly,
(S'g'd)
GEO. R. FITCH, G. E: A.
The previous letter of advice referred to by Fitch in the
foregoing letter is lost and no copy of it exists. It appears,
however, from the following letter of acknowledgment to have
borne date on September 27th:
October 2nd, 1894.
George R. Fitch, Esq., G. E. A., N. P. R. R., 319 Broadway,
New York.
DEAR SIR: We beg to own receipt of and thank you for
your favor of the 27th ultimo, and advising the engagement
of 40 tons of condensed milk and 225 tons of pig lead for our
steamer "Tacoma," sailing hence the 30th instant. Please
keep us frequently advised of freight engagements, as we
have applications now for more space for flour than our
steamers will carry, and we are shutting out considerable of
the latter every voyage.
Yours truly,
(Sig.)
p. p. DODWELL, CARLILL & CO.
A. T. PRITCHARD.
TAcomA, WN.,

12. At Tacoma the lead was delivered by the receivers to
the Northern Pacific Steamship Company and was loaded
upon the "Tacoma," the vessel of the steamship company
which was to sail on October 30; but about four o'clock in
the afternoon of that day the deputy collector of the United
States at that port refused to clear the vessel while the lead
was on board upon the ground that it was contraband of war,
and telegraphed to the collector of Port Townsend for instructions. On the following day, which was the thirty-first of
October, the deputy collector at Tacoma received a telegram

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

from the collector of the United States at Port Townsend,
which was as follows:
Department advises that unless you have evidence tending to show that the pig lead at Tacoma and referred to in
your telegram of yesterday is to be used in the war between
China and Japan, no reason is perceived why shipment should
not be permitted.
In the meantime, however, the master of the vessel unloaded the lead, which delayed the ship until 9 A. M. on the
morning of October 31, when he sailed without it.
The petitioner was not notified of the delay in the transshipment of the lead until November 5, 1894.
The next vessel on the line was the "Sikh," which did not
belong to the steamship company, but was a chartered ship.
Her captain declined to take the lead on the ground that it
was contraband. The Northern Pacific Steamship Company
cabled to the owners of the vessel in London, and they adhered to the position taken by the captain.
13. The lead went forward on the next vessel, the "Victoria," on December 11, 1894, and did not arrive in Yokohama
until on or about January 4, 1895, instead of on or about
November 18, 1894, when it would have arrived had it gone
forward on the thirtieth of October, 1894.
14. In the meantime hostilities between China and Japan
had ceased, the price of lead had fallen very considerably,
and the purchaser of the shipment refused to accept it and
declared the contract null and void in consequence of the
failure to deliver it promptly in accordance with the terms
of the contract.
15. The price of the lead under the contract would have
been $38,610.17. The lead was delivered to the trading company in Yokohama upon the surrender of the bill of lading,
and in consequence of the failure of its vendee to accept the
lead, the trading company sold it for $11,331.60, which was
the best price obtainable therefor, at the time of the sale.
The sale was made as soon as a purchaser could be found.

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING 00. 453
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

The value of the lead on January 4, 1895, in Japan, was
$11,906.16.
16. Upon the case arising on the foregoing facts, the American Trading Company has duly presented to the receivers and
to the Northern Pacific Railway Company, its claim amounting to the sum of $26,704.02, with interest thereon from the
4th day of January, 1895, and has demanded payment thereof,
but payment has been refused, and no part thereof has been
paid.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for appellants:
The damages were due solely to delay after delivery to the
connecting carrier and the receivers were not responsible for
such damage. Myrick v. Mich. Cent. R. R. Co., 107 U. S.
102; Taylor v. Maine Central R. R., 87 Maine, 302; Burroughs
v. Norwich & Worcester R. R. Co., 100 Massachusetts, 26;
Washburn & Moen v. Prov. & W. R. R. Co., 113 Massachusetts, 490.
There is no proof that the court had authorized the receivers
to transport goods beyond their own lines or to guarantee the
transportation by other carriers, and in the absence of such
authorization such contracts were beyond their power. Chicago Dep. Vault Co. v. McNulta, 153 U. S. 554. Making such
guarantees is not part of the necessary or usual business of
operating a railroad. Int. & Gt. Nor. R. R. Co. v. Wentworth,
87 Texas, 311; Green Bay & Minn. R. R. v. Union Steamboat
Co., 107 U. S. 98; Railway Companies v. Keokuk Bridge Co.,
131 U. S. 371, 385; Swift v. Pac. Mail S. S. Co., 106 N. Y.
206, 216. If the general agent made any such contract he
exceeded his authority.
The bill of lading is the final and only contract and under
it the receivers were not liable beyond their own lines. Seitz
v. Brewers' RefrigeratingCo., 141 U. S. 510; De Witt v. Berry,
134 U. S. 306. As to being issued after the shipment of the
goods the cases cited by appellee do not apply; and see Shelton
v. Merchants' Despatch, 59 N. Y. 258; Hill v. Syracuse &c.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellants.

195 U. S.

73 N. Y. 351; GermaniaFire Ins. Co. v. Memphis & Charleston
R. R. Co., 72 N. Y. 90; Rubens v. Ludgate Hill S. S. Co., 20
N. Y. Supp. 481.
The bill of lading was not imposed on an ignorant or unskillful man, the shipper knew he was to receive a bill of lading
and received it forthwith after the shipment, really simultaneously with it; it expressed the usual carrier's liability and
was not an attempt to lessen it; the shipper assented to its
terms by immediately negotiating it at the bank.
The collector's action in refusing to allow the vessel to
carry the lead made the performance of the contract not only
impossible, but unlawful, and absolved the carrier on whose
part there was no fault. The collector was an officer of the
United States and had authority even if he erred as it was likely
it would have been an offense for the vessel to sail without a
clearance. Rev. Stat. § 4197; Brewster v. Kitchell, 1 Salk.
198; Bailey v. DeCrespigny, L. R. 4 Q. B. 180; Leake on Contracts, 497, 501; Nickoll. v. Ashton, 2 K. B. 1901, 126. Congress having provided no method of reviewing the collector's
decisions it intended them to be obeyed; the ship could not
be delayed for a law suit and Federal courts could not mandamus the collector. McIntyre v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; Bath
County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 244; Davenport v. Dodge County, 105
U. S. 237; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, 727; Rosenbaum
v. Bauer, 120 U. S. 450; Graham v. Norton, 15 Wall. 427.
There is no remedy against the collector on his bond for error
in the exercise of his discretion. Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How.
87; Otis v. Walkins, 9 Cranch, 339; Crowell v. McFadon, 8
Cranch, 94; Otis v. Walter, 2 Wheat. 18; Martin v. Mott, 12
Wheat. 31; Wilkes v. Dinsman, 7 How. 89, 132; Gould v.
Hammond, 1 McAll. 235. Acts of Congress forbid the sending of troops, munitions of war, guns, warships and war implements to a nation at war with a friendly power. Rev.
Stat. §5281 et seq. And clearance should be refused to a
ship violating these or any other laws of the United States.
Rev. Stat. §§ 3987, 4200, 4202, 4539, 4573.

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 456
195 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

The ship could not have sailed from Tacoma, or probably
have entered any port in Japan, without a clearance. Abbott
on Shipping, 9th ed., 288; Lushington Naval Prize Law, 24-34.
Mr. F. B. Jennings, with whom Mr. Howard Van Sinderen
was on the brief, for appellee:
The contract contained an absolute agreement to ship from
Tacoma by steamer sailing on or about October 30. This is
evidenced by the correspondence and the receivers ratified
the contract. The railroad company can make a contract for
transportation beyond its own line. Elliott on Railroads,
§ 1434, and cases cited; Redfield on Railways, §§ 189, 191,
and cases cited; Hutchinson on Carriers, §§ 151, 152; Ogdensburg &c.R. R. Co. v. Pratt, 22 Wall. 123; Railroad Co. v.
McCarthy, 96 U. S. 258.
The receivers had the same authority as the carrier itself.
Elliott on Railroads, § 567; Hutchinson on Carriers, § 67a;
Beach on Receivers, § 371; Cent. Trust Co. v. N. Y. City &
Nor. R. R., 110 N. Y. 257; Little, Receiver, v. Dusenberry, 46
N. J. Law. Rep. 614; Wall v. Platt, 169 Massachusetts, 400;
Kansas Pacific v. Bayles, 35 Pac. Rep. (Colo.) 744; Chicago
Dep. Vault Co. v. McNulta, 153 U. S. 554, distinguished.
The contract was within the authority of the general eastern
agent of the receivers.
The real authority of an agent is equal to his apparent
authority, and he can make any contract relative to the busP
ness under his management which could be made by his
principal. Insurance Co. v. Wilkinson, 13 Wall. 222, 235;
Goldwater v. Liverpool &c. Co., 39 Hun, 178; S. C., affirmed
109 N. Y. 618; Pechner v. Phcenix Ins. Co., 65 N. Y. 195;
Lowenstein v. Lombard, Ayres & Co., 164 N. Y. 324; Isaacson
v. N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R. Co., 94 N. Y. 278, 285; Talcott v.
Wabash R. R. Co., 159 N. Y. 461, 469; Porter on Bills of Lading, § 159; Hutchinson on Carriers, § 267.
A general freight agent can contract for the carriage of goods
beyond the carrier's line. Ray on Negligence of Imposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

195 U. S.

Duties, 400; White v. M. P. R. Co., 19 Mo. App. 400; Grover
& Baker Sewing Mach. Co. v. Mo. Pac. R. R. Co., 70 Missouri,
672. He can stipulate for carriage within a specified time.
Strohm v. Detroit &c. R. R., 23 Wisconsin, 126; Goddard v.
Mallory, 52 Barb. 87; Goodrich v. Thompson, 44 N. Y. 324.
The contract was not merged in or modified by the bill of
lading. This could not be done without consent of both
parties. Wheeler v. Railroad Co., 115 U. S. 340. The receipt
of the bill did not constitute such consent. Bostwick v. Balt.
& Ohio R. R. Co., 45 N. Y. 712; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Beeson,
30 Kansas, 298; Railroad Co. v. Manufacturing Co., 16 Wall.
319, 329; Pollard v. Vinton, 105 U. S. 8; Gaines v. Union
Transport Co., 28 Ohio St. 418; Swift v. The Pacific Mail S. S.
Co., 106 N. Y. 206; Mobile &c. R. R. Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S.
584; Park v. Preston, 108 N. Y. 434; Gillaume v. Gen. Transptn.
Co., 100 N. Y. 491; Strohm v. Detroit and Milwaukee Ry. Co.,
21 Wisconsin, 545; King v. Woodbridge, 34 Vermont, 565;
Hutchinson on Carriers, §§ 246, 247; McAbsher v. Railroad
Co., 12 S. E. Rep. 892; Hamilton v. Railroad Co., 96 N. Car.
398; Central R. R. Co. v. Dwight Mfg. Co., 75 Georgia, 609;
Baker v. Mich. S. &c. R.
Co., 42 Illinois, 73; Merchants'
Dispatch Tr. Co. v. Furthmann, 149 Illinois, 66.
The failure to perform was not excused by the unlawful
refusal of the deputy collector to clear the ship with the lead
on board. That the action was unlawful is conceded. Treasury Decisions, August, 1865-1883; Hendricks v. Gonzales, 67
Fed. Rep. 351; Evans v. Hutton, 12 L. J. C. P. N. S. 17.
The collector was liable for the damages sustained by the
vessel and the owners could have recovered on his bond.
Rev. Stat. 989; Schell v. Cochran, 107 U. S. 625; Cruikshank
v. Bidwell, 176 U. S. 73, 81; United States v. Sherman, 98
U. S. 565. The receivers having made the contract should
have ascertained what the law was prior to the arrival of the
lead at Tacoma, or they should have held the vessel until the
telegrams sent to the collector were answered. Williams v.
Vanderbilt, 28 N. Y. 217, 223. Impossibility of performance

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 457
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

arising subsequently to making of the contract constitutes no
defense. Jacksonville v. Hooper, 160 U. S. 514, 527; Hutchinson on Carriers, § 317; Jones v. United States, 96 U. S. 24, 29;
Robson v. Miss. Logging Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 900; S. C., 69 Fed.
Rep. 777; The Harriman,9 Wall. 161; Parinev. Jane, Aleyn
Sel. Cas. 26; Beebe v. Johnson, 19 Wendell, 500; Blight v. Page,
3 Bos. & Parl. 295; Barker v. Hodgson, 3 Marle & S. 271; Ashmore v. Cox, 1 Q. B. Div. 1899, 436; Meredos v. Hill, 8 Bingham, 235; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 566, and cases cited; Story
on Contracts, § 1334; C., M. & St. P. Ry. v. Hoyt, 149 U. S. 1;
Railroad Co. v. Baker, 98 Fed. Rep. 694, distinguished.
The failure to fulfill the contract was due to the negligence
of the receivers, who failed to exercise the degree of diligence
in the interest of shippers which the law requires. The M. M.
Chase, 37 Fed. Rep. 708; Hutchinson, §§ 188 et seq.; Robinson
v. M. & C. R. R. Co., 16 Fed. Rep. 57, 69; and even though
the steamship company was the negligent party the receivers
were liable under the contract. 0. & M. R. Co. v. McCarthy,
96 U. S. 258; Ogdensburg &c. R. R. Co. v. Pratt, 22 Wall. 123.
The measure of damages is the difference between the contract price for the sale of the lead in Japan and the market
price at the date of arrival with interest, as decided by the
court below. The Caledonia, 50 Fed. Rep. 567; S. C., 157
U. S. 124, 139; Schwarzchild v. Natl. S. S. Co., 74 Fed. Rep.
257; Railroad v. Estill, 147 U. S. 591, 616; Railway Co. v.
Jurey, 111 U. S. 585; The Nith, 36 Fed. Rep. 86;S. C., affirmed,
36 Fed. Rep. 384; Messmore v. N. Y. Shot & Lead Co., 40
N. Y. 422; Booth v. Spuyten Duyvil R. M. Co., 60 N. Y. 487.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The objections to the recovery herein, made on the argument, were:
(1.) That no contract was shown on the part of the receivers
to assume any responsibility for the transportation of the lead
beyond the line of the railway in their charge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

(2.) That there was no proof that the court had authorized
the receivers to assume any such responsibility, and they
could not do so without any such authority.
(3.) That if Fitch, the agent, made such agreement it was
not within his authority, real or apparent.
(4.) That the bill of lading is the controlling contract, and
by its terms the receivers were not liable beyond their own
line.
(5.) That the damages were caused solely by the act of the
collector, representing the authority of the United States, and
the receivers are not liable for damages so caused.
In regard to the first objection, we think the facts agreed
upon clearly show a special agreement for the transportation
of the lead to Yokohama by the steamship of the Northern
Pacific Steamship. Company, which was to leave Tacoma on
October 30, 1894. The opening of the negotiation was made
by the American Trading Company, which applied to Fitch
for a rate upon the proposed shipment from New York to
Yokohama, Japan. The trading company knew nothing of
his steamship agency, and he was informed that it was
of vital importance that the lead should be transported
promptly and go forward by the earliest possible steamer
without delay; in order to enable the trading company to
fulfill a proposed agreement which it was about to make for
the sale of the lead in Japan, and which would require its
delivery there at a fixed date. Fitch thereupon named a rate,
and undertook to forward the lead from New York to Yokohama, on or before September 29, via the Northern Pacific
steamer sailing from Tacoma October 30, 1894. The trading
company thereupon made its proposed agreement through its
agents at Yokohama. Although Fitch, the agent, was not
thereafter specially informed of the fact that the 15roposed
agreement had been made, yet he was informed that the company intended to make it if a rate could be agreed upon for
the transportation of the lead, it is clear that his furnishing
of the rate was with reference to the proposed agreement,

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO.459
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and that he understood that if his terms were accepted he was
entering into an agreement to transport to Japan the lead
in question over the Northern Pacific Railroad to Tacoma,
and by the steamship which would leave Tacoma on October 30, 1894. His letter of September 19, 1894, to the
trading company, confirming the rate, is a plain agreement,
not alone to deliver the lead in time for the sailing of the
steamer, October 30, but an agreement that the lead should
be forwarded from Tacoma, Washington, via the Northern
Pacific steamer sailing on that day. Fitch in that letter asked
the trading company to forward their acceptance of this proposed agreement as early as possible. On the next day,
September 20, the trading company, by letter, did accept the
rate "for a shipment of pig lead, to consist of not less than
four hundred thousand pounds, to be forwarded from New
York to Tacoma, and from Tacoma via the Northern Pacific
steamer sailing from that port October 30." There is no
doubtful expression in these letters. They form a clear and
specific contract. It is entirely different from Myrick v.
Michigan Central Railroad Company, 107 U. S. 102. The
receipt in that case was plainly not one which established a
contract for transportation on the part of the railroad company (defendant) beyond its own line. This court held that
while a company might by a contract to that effect be held
liable for the transportation and delivery of freight beyond
its own line, yet the contract to do so must be clear, and that
the mere stating of a through fare on the receiptof the freight
does not establish such contract or liability.
In the case at bar we hold that a special agreement is set
forth in the statement of facts, to forward to Yokohama by
the steamer leaving Tacoma on October 30, 1894. If it had
been made by the proper officer of a railroad company in the
general course of business, we have no doubt, under the authorities, of the validity of the contract. Railroad Company
v. Pratt;22 Wall. 123; Railway Company v. McCarthy, 96 U. S.
258; Myrick v. Michigan Central Railroad Company, 107 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

102. Whether the fact that it was made by an agent of the
receivers of a railroad company makes any difference will be
discussed later.
Appellant urges, however, that as Fitch was also agent for
the steamship company, his contract, if there was one, to forward by the steamship sailing October 30, was in behalf of the
steamship company. Fitch had never received any direct
or independent appointment or authority from the Northern
Pacific Steamship Company to act as its agent. His only authority as agent of that company was created by the contract
made between the two companies. By that agreement the
railroad company was to have the exclusive right (with certain
exceptions) to appoint agents in the United States, etc., and
the steamship company thereby authorized the railroad company and its appointed agents to act as agents for the steamship company, and to issue bills of lading and passenger tickets,
and to make and name rates on all traffic for Asiatic points,
etc. The trading company did not know what company
operated the steamships between Tacoma and Yokohama, or
that the steamship company was a separate and independent
company, or that there was any contract between the receivers
and the steamship company. When the trading company,
therefore, applied to Fitch for a rate, they applied to him as
the agent of the receivers of the railroad company. The letter of Fitch of September 19, confirming the rate already
given orally that day, is written on the paper used by the receivers of the railroad company, which paper is headed by the
names of the receivers under the words "Northern Pacific
Railroad Co.," and in it Fitch describes himself as "general
eastern agent," and his department as the "Traffic Department in New York City," and he signs his name and adds the
words "G. E. Agent." In his letter of September 29, 1894,
to the steamship agent at Tacoma, Washington, he writes on
the same kind of paper, with the same heading, and describes
himself as "general eastern agent," and in the letter he says
"As I have previously advised you I have made contract

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO.461
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

guaranteeing delivery of this shipment at Yokohama by our
S. S. Tacoma sailing October 30. Will you kindly see that
this connection is made, without fail." He signs his name
and adds the letters G. E. A., meaning, of course, thereby
"general eastern agent." It is contended that by the statement of facts it appears that Fitch was acting for two principals, and that the plaintiff must establish that Fitch made
the alleged guaranty on behalf of the receivers. We do not
think he was acting in behalf of two principals. From all the
facts we think it plain that he was acting for the receivers of
the railroad company. He was their general eastern agent;
he was applied to and he made his rates 'as such, and as such
he signed the letter confirming those rates and containing the
agreement to forward the lead on the steamship as already
stated. Subsequently, and on the twenty-ninth of September
while acting and signing himself as the general eastern agent
of the receivers, he writes to the steamship agents at Tacoma
the letter in which he says he has guaranteed delivery at
Yokohama by our steamer sailing October 30. All this shows
the fact that he was acting as agent for the receivers.
We have no difficulty in determining the capacity in which
Fitch acted, nor that he made the special agreement, as contended by the trading company.
(2.) Neither do we doubt that the court had authorized
the receivers to make such a contract.
Under the modern methods of foreclosing railroad mortgages it has been the custom to appoint receivers to take
charge and conduct the business of the railroad mortgagor,
during the pendency of the suit. The possession of such receivers frequently lasts for years. It would be in the highest
degree disadvantageous to all interested in the railroad company, as well as to the public having occasion to do business
with it, if the same power which the company possessed to
make special contracts for transportation should not be given
to and exercised by the receivers of the company in continuing
to run the road in substance as a going concern, so far as these

OCTOBER TERMIN,

1904.

Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

kinds of contracts are concerned. Such contracts are not of
the character spoken of by Mr. Justice Jackson in Chicago
Deposit Vault Company v. McNulta, 153 U. S. 554, as so
extraordinary or unusual as not to be included in the authority
to carry on the business of the company. On the contrary,
this contract is one of that class which we regard as so included.
(3.) We are also of opinion that Fitch had the right to make
the agreement in question, and if there could be any doubt on
that point, nevertheless the agreement was in fact thereafter
ratified by the officers representing the receivers, who had
power so to do. Goodrich v. Thompson, 44 N. Y. 324.
A railroad company has the power, as we have seen, to make
such a contract of carriage beyond its lines. A general agent
would be presumed to have such power. If the company have
the power some individual must exercise it. It would not be
supposed that the board of directors would be consulted and
authority given by it every time such a contract was to be
made. Who is a more proper or fit person to make the contract than the general agent of the company? He must necessarily have large powers in order to conduct the business of
his office, and, prima facie such power is within the scope of
such agency. When the railroad company passes into the
hands of a receiver, appointed by the court in a foreclosure
suit, and the receiver is directed to conduct and continue the
business of the company, the power to appoint general agents
necessarily goes with the order to conduct the business of the
company, and when the general agent is appointed by a receiver he will be presumed to have the general powers of such
an officer when acting for the railroad itself. The words
"General Eastern Agent" for a Western railroad company
only limit the exercise of the agency to the place so described.
(4.) It is urged that the bill of lading constitutes the sole
contract. But there was a plain valid contract existing between the parties before the lead was shipped and before any
bill of lading was issued. That special contract was to for-

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AIER. TRADING CO. 463
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ward the lead by the steamship leaving Tacoma on October 30. The next day after the lead was shipped at Newark,
a bill of lading was delivered to one of the clerks of the trading company, and that bill of lading contains the absolutely
inconsistent statement that the carrier is not to be liable for
any loss not occurring on its own road, and that the contract
as executed is accomplished and all'liability thereunder terminates upon the delivery of the property to the steamship.
It is said that the trading company, by receiving this bill
of lading and obtaining money on it as the representative of
the property therein described, has acquiesced in the total
abolition of the special contract the company made with
Fitch, and has agreed that the railroad company shall be
under no liability after the delivery of the lead to the steamship.
We regard it as entirely clear that no such effacement of
the original contract was meant by the receipt of the bill of
lading. The railroad company has no power alone to alter
that contract, and it could not alter it by simply issuing a bill
of lading, unless the other party assented to its conditions and
thereby hnade a new and different contract.
At the time when the bill of lading was issued the lead had
been shipped at Newark and had departed for its destination.
It was impossible for the trading company to recall it. The
particular conditions in the bill are set out in subdivision three
and subdivision twelve of the conditions printed in small type
and they form part of numerous other printed conditions in
regard to the freight received.
Where the accbptance of the bill of lading, under these
circumstances, is sought to be made an equivalent to an assent
to the change of contract, it is proper to look at these facts in
order to determine what weight should be given to such acceptance. At the time it was received the lead was out of
the possession of the trading company, on its way West.
That company needed the bill of lading as evidence of title
to the property described in it, upon the security of which it

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

desired to raise money, which it could not do without the
possession of the bill. Under these circumstances we refuse
to hold that the trading company, in accepting the bill of
lading, thereby consented to the complete alteration of its
original contract, and, without any consideration whatever,
agreed to release the railroad company from all liability on
that contract and to take in its stead the reduced liability
provided for in the bill of lading.
Of course the company expected a bill of lading, for such
an instrument is the usual accompaniment in shipping merchandise. The bill showed the amount of the lead, the marks and
numbers, etc., and so identified the goods as to enable the
shippers to show their amount and general value, and to enable
them to negotiate the bill and obtain money on its security.
It is agreed in the statement of facts that this bill of lading
was received by a clerk of the trading company without stated
objection to its terms, but was not read or examined by him
or by any officer of the company, and was immediately hypothecated with a bank as collateral security for the money
borrowed thereon by the trading company. We do not state
the fact that the bill of lading was not examined, for the purpose of insisting that an examination of such an instrument
must always be shown before a contract can be predicated
thereon. But where there is a valid contract already in existence, and it is urged that such contract has been abrogated
or changed by the receipt of a bill of lading, after goods have
passed from the control of the shipper, we think it is important,
upon the question of whether such original contract has, in
fact, been abrogated, to show that the bill was never read in
fact; that the conditions abrogating the original contract were
among a number of other conditions printed in the bill in
smaller type than the rest of the bill, and that the alleged acquiescence of the trading company in the change of the contract, by virtue of these conditions, is based upon the mere
reception of the bill of lading by a clerk without any knowledge of the existence of these conditions and without evidence

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v. AMER. TRADING CO. 465
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Couit.

of any authority in him to consent to a modification of the
contract already made by his employer. The fact that, in
such ignorance, that company hypothecated the bill of lading,
adds nothing to the alleged acquiescence. What the contract meant as between the railroad company and the bank
or other assignee of the bill of lading is not important here,
but upon these facts we are unable to see that the receipt
and holding of the bill of lading changed the original contract
as claimed by the railroad company. See Bostwick v. Railroad Company, 45 N. Y. 712, where it was held, under the circumstances of that case, the mere acceptance of a bill of lading
did not alter a previously made oral contract in relation to
the shipment.
(5.) Even if the receivers of the railroad company contracted
to forward the lead by the steamer sailing from Tacoma,
October 30, it is still insisted that the action of the deputy
collector, at Tacoma, in refusing to grant a clearance to the
steamship while the lead was on board, made the performance of the agreement not only impossible but unlawful, and
for that reason the receivers were absolved from their agreement to forward by that vessel. The contract was not unlawful when made. It may be assumed that the lead was
contraband of war, but that fact did not render the contract
of transportation illegal nor absolve the carrier from fulfilling
it. It is legal to export articles which are contraband of war,
but the articles and the ship which carries them are subject
to the risk of capture and forfeiture. The Santissima Trinidad
and the St. Ander, 7 Wheat. 283, 340. Neither any law of the
United States nor any provision of international law was
violated by the making of this contract, nor by an attempt
to export the lead pursuant to its provisions. The case does
not come within the principle of Brewster v. Kitchell, 1 Salk.
198, where it was said that if one covenants to do a thing
which is lawful, and an act of Parliament comes in and hinders
him from doing it, the covenant is repealed.
No act of Congress was passed, subsequently to the making
VOL. oxcv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

of the contract, which made it unlawful, and it was lawful
when made. It is true that the sailing of thevessel without
a clearance would have been unlawful, and the deputy collector
refused to grant that necessary document while the lead was
on board the steamship. But that did not render unlawful
the contract to transport. He had the power to refuse to
grant the clearance, and he did refuse unless the lead were
taken off. In so doing he undoubtedly violated his duty.
He was not justified in exacting any such condition for granting the clearance.
Upon the facts in this case we are of opinion that this
refusal of the deputy collector constituted no defense to the
action on the contract. It is not within the exception referred to by Mr. Justice Jackson, in delivering the opinion of
the court in Chicago, M11ilwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company
v. Hoyt, 149 U. S. 1. This contract, in view of all the facts,
we think was made in contemplation of trouble arising from
the character of the lead as contraband of war.
The statement of facts shows that the question of whether
the lead might not be excluded from transportation as contraband in view of the war then existing between China and
Japan, was fully understood before the contract was made,
and after it was made and the steamship refused to carry the
lead, the trading company, upon being so informed by Fitch,
notified him that they would hold the receivers responsible
for failure to fulfill the contract, and thereafter, with the attention of all the parties directed to the subject, it was finally
agreed that the lead should be received and transported, and
the refusal was then withdrawn.
It is true that the special and particular difficulty was first
made by the steamship company which refused to transport
the lead, yet, still, the attention of all the parties was, from
the very first, directed to the peculiar character of the freight
as contraband of war, and whether the contract should on that
account be made, or, having been made, whether the shipment should not be refused. The receivers, therefore, knew

NORTHERN PAC. RY. CO. v.. AMER. TRADING CO. 467
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that there might be difficulty in relation to the transportation,
and yet, after full knowledge on the subject, they agreed to
and did withdraw their refusal, and they thereupon took the
lead for transportation under the contract.
Under these circumstances it ought not to be held that the
mistaken action of the deputy collector in refusing to give
the clearance should operate as an excuse for the non-performance of the contract, which was not thereby rendered illegal.
It cannot be affirmed that such possible refusal was not within
the contemplation of the contracting parties when the contract was made. Many causes, it was known, might operate
to obstruct the transportation of articles contraband of war.
This particular form of impediment may not have been actually
within the minds of the parties to the contract, but there was,
as the agreed facts show, present to their minds the fact that
there might be trouble in procuring the transportation of the
lead, because of its character as contraband of war, and in
the light of those facts the contract was made and, in substance, ratified after it was made. The railroad receivers
took the risk of this, as of other obstructions, in making the
contract, and they ought to be held to it.
As the act of the deputy collector was an erroneous one and
a clearance should have been given while the lead was on
board the steamship, we think his refusal should not be at
the expense of the shippers who had obtained this contract
for transportation while all parties actually knew the difficulties that might concern the exportation of the lead from
Tacoma., The State had not intervened to prevent the performance of the contract, as was the case in Touteng v. Hubbard, 3 B. & P. 291, where Lord Alvanley held that in such
circumstances the party will be excused. In that case there
was an embargo laid by the British Government, after the
contract was made, on all Swedish vessels.
Here there was no intervention of the Government of the
United States. The exportation of lead was never prohibited
by the Treasury Department during the war between China

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

and Japan. There was no change in the law or the policy of
this Government subsequently to the making of the contract,
by which its performance was excused. The exportation of
the lead was legal when the contract was made and continued
to be so after the execution of such contract, although the
deputy collector mistakenly refused to grant the clearance
unless the lead was taken off the vessel. Such mistaken decision did not render the original loading of the lead on the
ship unlawful, nor would it have been unlawful for the ship
to proceed with the lead on board provided the clearance had
been had. It was not an act of the State, therefore, which
prevented the sailing of the vessel within the true meaning
of such a term, but a mistaken act of a subordinate official
not justified by law and not sufficient as an excuse for the
non-performance of the contract in question under the circumstances already detailed. If the bill of lading were regarded as applicable for this purpose, the refusal of the clearance did not constitute a "restraint *of princes, rulers or
people," within that clause of the bill.
It was one of the contingencies of which the receivers
undertook by their special contract of transportation to take
the risk. It was not a contract that they should violate the
law, but they took the risk of its misapplication, believing, of
course, that such contingency was most remote and that if
the steamship company would receive the lead for transportation the chief obstacle to the fulfillment of the contract would
be thereby removed.
After the lead had been unshipped, and within half an hour
after the sailing of the vessel, the telegram which the deputy
collector had sent to the collector in regard to the matter
was answered by the latter in such terms that, undoubtedly,
if the ship had been still in port, the lead would have been
placed thereon and transported to Japan. The master, however, as soon as the determination of the deputy collector was
given, immediately and without appealing to the collector,
unshipped the lead and sailed for his destination at once.

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

The result of the failure thus to carry the lead on that vessel
was that it did not arrive in Yokohama until on or about
January 4, 1895, instead of on or about November 18, 1894,
which it would have done had it gone forward as contracted
for. In the meantime, the war between China and Japan
ceased, the value of the lead fell, and the trading company
was damaged as stated in the finding of facts.
We think the objections made to this recovery are untenable, and the decree of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES AND THE KIOWA INDIANS v.
MARTINEZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 15. Argued October 21, 22, 1904.-Decided December

a, 1904.

In an action brought under the Indian Depredation Act of March, 3 1891,
26 Stat. 851, a tribe of Indians not originally named in the petition
cannot be brought into the action by amended petition after the expiration of three years from the filing of the original petition in the Court

of Claims.

THIS action was brought in the Court of Claims on October 24, 1891, to recover damages against the United States
and the Ute tribe of Indians in the sum of fourteen hundred
dollars, the value of certain sheep alleged to have been taken
and destroyed or used in June, 1873, by the said Indians.
The petition was filed under the provisions of the act of March 3,
1891, entitled "An act to provide for the adjudication and
payment of claims arising from Indian depredations." 26
Stat. 851. On February 5, 1902, the Assistant Attorney General of the United States answered the allegations of the peti-

