NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK v. WILEY.
195 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK OF TIFFIN v. WILEY.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 53. Argued November 7, 1904.-Decided November 28,1904.
A warrant of attorney executed by the maker of a note and authorizing,
in case of nonpayment, an attorney to appear, waive process, confess
judgment, waive error and right of appeal in favor of the "holder" of
the note must be construed strictly in favor of the maker, and does not,
in the absence of express terms, authorize the confession of judgment
in favor of the original payee after it ceases to be the owner of the note
even though he may have the note in his possession. A judgment so entered would be a personal judgment without service of process or appearance, and the court would have no authority or jurisdiction to enter
it, and the proceedings would be wanting in due process of law. Such
a judgment can be attacked collaterally without violating the full faith
and credit clause of the Federal Constitution in an action thereon in a
State, other than that in which it was entered, on the ground that the
party in whose favor it was rendered was not in fact the holder because
not the owner of the note and that, therefore, the court entering the
judgment was without jurisdiction.

Tim facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John J. Boucher, with whom Mr. Constantine J. Smyth
and Mr. Thomas D. Crane were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
The answer does not state a defense to the petition but
confesses same; it admits delivery of the note and warrant
of attorney authorizing any attorney to appear without process and confess judgment and that the ,judgment was so confessed in a court of general jurisdiction. The judgment of a
court of general jurisdiction in any State is equally conclusive
lipon the parties in any other State. Tell v. Yost, 128 N. Y.
387; Shumway v. Stillman, 6 Wend. 453. In any view of the
case there is no evidence in support of the defendant's contention that the bank was not the holder of the note in the
Ohio court.
VOL. CXOV-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
-Argument for Defendant in Error.

195 U. S.

Under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution
the Ohio judgment is conclusive that plaintiff was the holder
of the note. Richtmeyer v. Remsen, 38 N. Y. 206; Reed v.
Spoon, 66 N. Car. 415; Fisher v. Williams, 57 Vermont, 586.
Whether or not the plaintiff was the holder of the note is not
a jurisdictional, but a quasi-jurisdictional question and the
judgment of the Ohio court is conclusive and cannot be controverted in collateral proceedings. 12 Ency. P1. & Pr. 211;
Reinach v. Atlantic &c. R. Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 43; Belts v.
Bagley, 12 Pick. (Mass.) 572; Holcomb v. Phelps, 16 Connecticut, 132; Wright v. Douglas, 10 Barb. 97; Ex parte Stearnes,
77 California, 156; Bostwick v. Skinner, 80 Illinois, 153; Wing
v. Dodge, 80 Illinois, 564; Young v. Lorain, 11 Illinois, 624;
Simmons v. Saul, 138 U. S. 439; Comstock v. Crawford, 3 Wall.
396, 403; Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404. This
judgment has the same force and effect as a judgment in
adversary proceedings. Snyder v. Critchfield, 44 Nebraska,
66. The defendant waived any defect of parties. If there
was any such defect it appeared on the face of the petition
and should have been demurred to. 6 Ency. P1. & Pr. 375;
Beeler v. Lamed, 34 Nebraska, 348; Castile v. Ford, 53 Nebraska, 507.
Mr. James H. Mclntosh for defendant in error:
The answer is a sufficient defense. Plaintiff was not the
holder of the note and the attorney was not the agent for
the maker of the note. Notwithstanding the full faith and
credit clause of the Constitution it can always be ascertained
in collateral proceedings if the court entering the judgment
had jurisdiction to enter it. Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall.
457; Knowles v. Gas Light Co., 19 Wall. 58; Hall v. Lanning,
91 U. S. 160; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107; Simmons v. Saul, 138 U. S. 439; Thormann
v. Frame, 176 U. S. 356; Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S. 175.
The warrant of attorney was confined to entering the judgment in favor of the holder of this instrument. Such a war-

NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK v. WILEY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rant must be strictly construed. Spence v. Emerine, 46 Ohio,
433, and cases cited; Cahn v. Lessor, 72 N. W. Rep. 739;
Morris v. Bank, 67 Texas, 602; Bank v. St. John's, 5 Hill, 497.
As to who is the holder of a note, see 1 Randolph on Coni'l
Paper, ยง 14 and note.
As to what are jurisdictional questions, see Pennoyer v.
Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Griffith v. Frazier, 8 Cranch, 9; Wise v.
Withers, 3 Cranch, 331; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 214; Galbin
,v. Pays, 18 Wall. 350; Clark v. Clark, 178 U. S. 186; as to
what are quasi-jurisdictional questions, see Des Moines v.
Iowa, 123 U. S. 552; Mickel v. Post, 21 Wall. 398; Comstock v.
Crawford, 3 Wall. 398; Thompson v. Tolme, 2 Peters, 157;
Reinach v. Al. &c.R. Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 83; Betts v. Baqley,.
12 Pick. 572; Holcombe v. Phelps, 16 Connecticut, 132; Wright
v. Douglas, 10 Barb. 97; Simmons v. Saul, 138 U. S. 439.
Even if the court erred in its instructions the error was
without prejudice; for if the plaintiff's judgment was valid,
it was a joint judgment against Wiley and Wiley Construction
Company and suit could not be maintained against Wiley
alone. A joint judgment cannot be made the basis of a
separate suit against one of the judgment debtors. First
National Bank v. Hamor, 63 Fed. Rep. 36; Watson v. Steineu,
33 Atl. Rep. 4 (R. I.); Knapp v. Abell, 10 Allen, 485; Mann
v. Edward, 138 Illinois, 19; Smith v. Smith, 17 Illinois, 481;
Donnelly v. Graham, 77 Pa. St. 274; Holbrook v. Murray, 5
Wend. 161; Dark v. Goss, 24 Michigan, 265; Sheehan v. Sims,
28 Mo. App. 64; Lawrence v. Willoughby, 1 Minnesota, 65.
MR. JUsTIcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a'n action upon a judgment rendered in one of the
courts of Ohio, and the question to be considered is whether
the final judgment under review gave to the proceedings in
the Ohio court such faith and credit as are required by the
Constitution and laws of the United States.
The Constitution, Art. IV, ยง 1, provides that "Full faith

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

and credit shall be given iji each State to the public acts,
records and judicial proceedings of every other State. And
the Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in
which such acts, records and proceedings shall be proved, and
the effect thereof." The statute enacted in execution of that
power, Rev. Stat. ยง 905, provides for the authentication of the
records and judicial proceedings of the several States and
Territories and any country subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States, and declares that "the said records and judicial
proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such faith and credit
given to them in every court within the United States as they
have by law or usage in the courts of the State from which
they are taken."
The Wiley Construction Company, a Massachusetts corporation, and Wiley, the defendant in error, executed and delivered to the National Exchange Bank, the plaintiff in error,
a written instrument-being a note with warrant of attorney annexed-dated Tiffin, Ohio, April 26, 1884, in which
for value received they jointly and severally promised to pay
to that bank, or order, on the first day of October, 1884, at
its office in that city, ten thousand dollars with eight per cent
interest after maturity. The instrument authorized N. L.
Brewer, or any attorney at law in the United States, or elsewhere, to appear before any court of record, after such obligation became due, waive the issuing and service of process,
and confess judgment against the obligors or either of them" in
favor of the holder" for the amount then appearing to be due,
together with the cost of suit; and thereupon to release all
errors and writs of errors, and in behalf of the obligors or either
of them waive all right to appeal and stay of execution.
On the thirty-first day of July, 1899, nearly fifteen years
after the maturity of the note, the National Exchange Bank
instituted suit against both obligors in the court of Common
Pleas of Seneca County, Ohio-a court of general jurisdiction
in that State-to recover the balance due on that obligation,
which was alleged to be $5,772.70, with interest from May 9,

NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK v. WILEY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1887, at eight per cent. Upon it was credited a payment of
$6,311.75 as of May 9, 1887.
It may be here stated tlat there was no endorsement on
the note showing that it had ever been assigned or transferred
by the original payee.
With the petition in that suit were filed copies of the paper
constituting the note and warrant of attorney. With it was
also filed an answer, in which an attorney, assuming, by virtue
of the above warrant and not otherwise, to be the attorney
of the construction company and of Wiley, confessed judgment against them for the full amount claimed by the bank.
On the very day of the bringing of that suit judgment was
entered against the defendants therein for $11,419.68, being
the amount of the obligation with interest at eight per cent
from May 9, 1887,-the judgment reciting that the attorney
who acted under the warrant of attorney, naming him in
person, by virtue of that warrant, entered the appearance of
the defendants, waived the issuing and service of process,
confessed judgment, and released and waived all exceptions,
errors and right of appeal.
The present action was by the National Exchange Bank
against Wiley on ihe judgment rendered in the Ohio suit.
The defendant disputed the plaintiff's right to recover upon
several grounds, one of which was that prior to the institution.
of the Ohio suit and more than twelve years before the commencement of the present action, the note had been fully
discharged, so far as he was concerned, pursuant to an agreement between him and the holder. But on this writ of error
we are concerned only with the part of the defense which distinctly raises a Federal question.
The defendant alleged that the warrant of attorney annexed
to the note of April 26, 1884, did not authorize a confession of
judgment against the obligors except in favor of the "holder;"
that so far from the National Exchange Bank being such
holder when it brought the Ohio suit, the Tiffin National
Bank, as early as March 2, 1885, purchased, received and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

became the holder of the obligation, and thereafter remained
and still was the holder; that, therefore, the attorney professing
to act in behalf of the defendants in the Ohio suit had no authority, in virtue of such warrant of attorney, to represent
them in that suit, or to confess judgment in favor of the
National Exchange Bank; that the defendant was neither
served with process in the Ohio suit nor had any notice thereof;
that the Ohio court was entirely without authority or jurisdiction .to render judgment against him in favor of the plaintiff
bank; and that its authority or jurisdiction could not be
upheld consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiff insisted that it was the holder of the note
when put in suit; further, that the court in Ohio had full power
and jurisdiction to render the judgment in question, and that
neither personal service of process on nor notice to the obligors
was necessary in order to give that court jurisdiction of the
parties and subject-matter.
Both at the trial and in the Supreme Court of Nebraska the
bank contended that full faith and credit, as required by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, would not be given
to the proceedings in the Ohio suit if the judgment in its favor
was held not to be conclusive in respect of the authority of
the Ohio court to render such judgment.
It is unnecessary to set out all the instructions. It is sufficient to say that the jury were, in substance, instructed that
the warrant of attorney authorized a confession of judgment
in favor of the holder of the note; that it was to be presumed
upon the showing made by the record of the Ohio court that
it had jurisdiction to render the judgment sued on; and that
such presumption continued throughout this case, unless the
defendant, by a preponderance of evidence, proved that the
plaintiff bank was not, in fact, the holder of the note when
put in suit in Ohio. The jury were also instructed that if the
plaintiff was found not to be such holder, the verdict should
be for the defendant.

NATIONAL EXCRANGE BANIC v. WILEY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The jury's verdict was for the defendant and the judgment
thereon was affirmed. Upon the issue as to the ownership of
the note at the time it was sued on in Ohio there was, as the
Supreme Court of Nebraska held, proof both ways.
Did the Ohio court have jurisdiction to render the judgment in question? It is a settled doctrine, Chief Justice Marshall said in Rose v. Himely, 4 Cr. 241, 269, that the effect of
every judgment must depend upon the power of the court
to render that judgment. In determining whether the Ohio
court had authority to render the judgment against the obligors
in the note, we must look first into the decisions of the highest
court of that State.
In Osborn v. Hawley, 19 Ohio, 130 (1850), the plaintiff
declared as endorsee of a promissory note, to which was attached a power of attorney to confess judgment. The report
of that case is very meager, but in the course of the opinion
the court said: "The power of attorney is not negotiable, and
when the legal title to the note is transferred the power of
attorney becomes invalid, and no power whatever can be
exercised under it, for the benefit of the endorsee; and he holds
the note as if no such power had ever been attached to it."
In Marsden v. Soper, 11 Ohio St. 503 (1860), the plaintiff
declared on a note to which was attached a warrant of attorney
authorizing a confession of judgment "in favor of any holder."
A suit was brought on the note in one of the courts of Ohio
by the endorsee thereof, and judgment was confessed under
a warrant of attorney annexed to the note. The question
was whether the court had jurisdiction of the persons of the
defendants so as to authorize a judgment affecting their rights.
The Supreme Court of Ohio said: "It will be noticed that the
plaintiff in this judgment is not the payee of the note on which
judgment is taken, but an endorsee; and that the warrant of
attorney under which judgment was confessed purports to
authorize such confession 'in favor of any holder of this obligation,' after the same becomes due. But, it was held, in broad
and general terms, in the case of Osborn v. Hawley, 19 Ohio

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

Rep. 130, that a warrant of attorney to confess judgment,
attached to a note, and forming a part of the same instrument, is not negotiable, and when the note is transferred
becomes invalid and inoperative. It is true, the report of that
case does not inform us whether the warrant of attorney in
that case purported to authorize the confession of a judgment
in favor of the payee of the note alone, or whether its terms
extended, as in this case, to any holder of the note after due.
But, however this may have been in that case, we suppose
that, if this judgment rested upon the confession under the
warrant of attorney alone, it would be very questionable
whether the Court of Common Pleas had any rightful jurisdiction of the defendants in the judgment."
In Cushman v. Welsh, 19 Ohio St. 536, 539, the warrant of
attorney authorized a confession of judgment "in favor of the
legal holder." The note there in question was payable to
order and had not been regularly endorsed to the party who
in fact purchased and owned it and in whose name suit was
brought. The question in the case was whether the confession under the warrant of attorney authorized judgment in
favor of the purchaser. The court said: "Though he might,
as the owner of the note in equity, have brought an action
thereon, under the provisions of the code, in his own name,
against the makers of the note, it does not follow that he
could obtain judgment by confession on their warrant of
attorney attached to the note. That depends on the extent
of the power conferred by the warrant. The attorney can do
nothing more than execute the power conferred by his warrant; moreover, 'all authorities of this sort must be strictly
pursued.' Cowie v. Allaway, 8 Durnf. & East, 257. 'Indeed,
formal instruments of this sort are ordinarily subjected to a
strict interpretation, and the authority is never extended
beyond that which is given in terms, or which is necessary
and proper for carrying the authority so given into full effect.'
Story on Agency, sec. 68. Now, the power conferred by the
terms of the instrument in this case was, to confess judgment

NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK v; WILEY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

only 'in favor of the legal holder' of the note. The plaintiff
below was not the 'legal' holder of the note, for the note had
not been endorsed to him. He could become the 'legal holder'
of the note only 'by endorsement thereon' as authorized by
the statute. S. & C. Stat. 862; Avery v. Latimer, 14 Ohio, 542.
The waiving of the process and confession of judgment in favor
of the plaintiff below was not, then, within the authority conferred by the power of attorney. Under the rule of interpretation applicable to such instruments, we must conclude that
the jurisdiction of the defendants below, obtained through the
warrant of attorney only, and the confession of judgment
by means thereof, exceeded the authority conferred by the
defendants in their power of attorney, and that the court,
therefore, erred in overruling their motion to set aside the
judgment, irregularly obtained against them."
In Watson v. Paine, 25 Ohio St. 340, which was an action
upon a judgment based on a warrant of attorney attached to
a promissory note, and which authorized any attorney at law
to confess judgment in favor of the holder of the note, the
point was made that the warrant of attorney did not authorize
the waiving of process or an appearance for tbe defendants
in an action brought by an endorsee. The members of the
Supreme Court of Ohio were divided in opinion on that point,
and it was left undecided. The case went off upon another
ground, but McIlvaine, C. J., delivering the judgment of the
court, expressed his individual opinion that a power to confess judgment in favor of any holder of the note may be
exerted as well in favor of an endorsee as of the payee.
But in Clements v. Hull, 35 Ohio St. 141, 143, it was held
that, under the Code of Civil Procedure, a warrant of attorney
authorizing judgment to be confessed in favor of the holder
of a note could be executed in favor of the equitable owner
and holder, being the real party in interest. The court said:
"The scope of the power is not limited in this case as it was
in the case of Cushman v. Welsh, 19 Ohio St. 536, in favor of
the legal holder only. The authority here given is 'to confess

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U: S.

judgment in favor of the holder of said note,' and we think
these words were intended, and should be construed, to embrace any holder who might lawfully prosecute an action on
said note, in his own name and for his own use."
The latest case in the Supreme Court of Ohio is Spence v.
Emerine, 46 Ohio St. 433, 439, 440, 441. There the note was
payable to a named person or bearer, and the warrant of attorney authorized any attorney to appear for the obligor in
any court of record in Ohio, and confess judgment for the
amount then due, and to release all errors and the right of
appeal. The confession was in favor of one to whom the note
had been transferred by delivery merely. The question was
as to the power of the court to render the judgment. The
Supreme Court of Ohio, after referring to its prior adjudications, said: "Whether the warrant of attorney can be ex6cuted
for the benefit of a holder of the note other than the payee,
must depend upon the language of the warrant itself. But
it is an established principle that an authority given by warrant of attorney to confess a judgment against the maker of
the note must be clear and explicit and strictly pursued, and
we cannot supply any supposed omissions of the parties.
Cushman v. Welsh, 19 Ohio St. 536; Cowie v. Allaway, 8 T. R.
257; Henshall v. Matthew, 1 Dowling's Pr. Cas. 217; Foster v.
Cldggett, 6 Dowling's Pr. Cas. 524; The Manuacturers' & Mechanics' Bank of Philadelphiav. St. John, 5 Hill. 497.
The power of attorney attached to the note in controversy
does not, in express language, authorize a confession of judgment in favor of any one, not even of the payee; but if such
authority might be implied as to the payee, we cannot, under
the rule of a strict interpretation, extend that implication in
favor of the defendant in error to whom the note was transferred by delivery.

.

.

.

It will thus be seen that where it

has been adjudged by the court that a power of attorney to
confess a judgment may be executed in favor of a party other
than the payee, it has been in cases where authority was expressly conferred to confess a judgment in favor of a legal

NATIONAL EXCHANOE
195 U. S.

3ANK v. WILEY.

Opinion of the Court.

holder or holder of the note. The decisions have all been based
upon a strict interpretation of the power granted, without
aiding any omission or defect in its terms by liberal intendment or construction. In accordance with the views which
we have expressed, our conclusion is, that the warrant of
attorney attached to the note sued on did not authorize a
confession of judgment in favor of defendant in terror, and
there having been no summons or other notice to the plaintiff
in error of the bringing of the original action, the Court of
Common Pleas acquired no jurisdiction over the person of the
plaintiff in error, and erred in -rendering a judgment against
him."
Looking at the face of the note, the National Exchange
Bank insists that, being payee, it was also the holder within
the meaning of the warrant of attorney, however strictly construed; that nothing else appearing than the note and warrant
a confession of judgment in its favor was in conformity with
law and usage in Ohio, as declared by the highest court of that
State. We incline to think that that position is justified by
the above cases, when carefully considered; and assuming
such to be the law as administered in Ohio-which is the view
most favorable to the plaintiff in error-the question still
remains whether the judgment, when sued on in another
State, may be collaterally attacked upon the ground that the
party in whose behalf it was rendered was not in fact the
holder, because not the real owner, of the note? This question must, we think, be answered in the affirmative. It can
be so answered without doing violence to the Constitution or
the laws of the United States. While the words of the warrant
of attorney might be held to embrace any holder, even the
equitable owner, who might rightfully prosecute an action
on the note in his own name and for his own use, Clements v.
Hull, 35 Ohio St. 141, above cited, yet if it was true, as
alleged, that in 1885 the Tiffin National Bank purchased, received and became the owner of the note, then the National
Exchange Bank could not thereafter rightfully sue on it in

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

its name and for its own use. Here, the confession of judgment was in behalf of the payee bank, which was not entitled
to sue for its own use or to receive the proceeds, if it sold the
note in 1885, and never afterwards became the owner. The
words, in the warrant of attorney, "in favor of the holder of
this instrument," ought not, as between the National Exchange Bank and the obligors, to be construed as embracing
the former after it ceased to be the owner of the note, but, at
most, as only authorizing a confession of judgment in favor
of the party who had become its real owner. It should not
be supposed that the obligors intended, or that the payee
bank ever understood them as intending, to authorize a confession of judgment in favor of one who was not entitled, of
right, to demand payment from the obligors. That view accords with justice, and, not being inconsistent with the words
in the warrant of attorney, it should be adopted.
Byles on Bills says that "holder is a general word, applied
to any one in actual or constructive possession of the bill, and
entitled at law to recover or receive its contents from the parties to it." Sharswood's Ed. 66. So in 1 Parsons' Bills and
Notes it is said that "by the holder of negotiable paper is
meant, in law, the owner of it; for if it be in his possession
without title or interest he is, in general, considered only as
the agent of the owner." p. 253. So that proof that the
payee bank was not the owner of the note when it brought suit
inOhio tended to show that it was not in law the "holder"
of the instrument within what must be regarded as the true
meaning of the warrant of attorney, and, therefore, that the
court was without authority to enter judgment by confession
in its favor against the obligor. In other words, the defendant Wiley could show collaterally that he was not legally
before the court-as he was not in any just sense-if his appearance was entered and judgment confessed by one who
had, in fact, at the time, no authority to do either; and, consequently, that the court was without jurisdiction to proceed
except on legal notice to him or without his appearance in

NATIONAL EXCHANGE BANK v. WILEY.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.,

person or by an attorney authorized to represent him. If
law and usage in Ohio were to the contrary, then, such law
and usage would be in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States; for it is thoroughly settled that a personal
judgment against one not before the court by actual service
of process; or who did not appear in person or by an authorized attorney, would be invalid as not being in conformity
with due process of law.
This whole subject was carefully considered in Thompson
v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, 463, 469. That was an action of
trespass, brought in the Circuit Court of the United Stgtes
for the Southern District of New York, for taking and carrying away a certain sloop. The defendant, a New Jersey sheriff,
had seized the vessel, pursuant, as he claimed, to a statute
of New Jersey relating to the raking of clams, and proceeded
against it before two justices of Monmouth County, New
Jersey, by whom it was condemned and ordered to be sold.
Those justices had no jurisdiction, under the statute, to act
in the premises, unless the seizure and the offense both occurred in that county. The record of the case recited that
the offense was committed and the seizure made in Monmouth
County, and the contention was that the record was conclusive, both as to the jurisdiction of the court and the merits
of the ckse. In that case it was held to be competent for the
complaining party to prove collaterally that the vessel was
not seized in Monmouth'County, and, therefore, that the facts
necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction by the New Jersey
justices did not exist, although their existence was recited or
affirmed in the official record made by them Speaking by
Mr. Justice Bradley, this court adjudged, in the language of
Story, that the Constitution " 'did not make the judgments
of other States domestic judgments to all intents and purposes, but only gave a general validity, faith and credit to
them, as evidence;'" and, upon an elaborate review of previous cases, that "the jurisdiction of the court by which a judgment-is rendered in any State may be questioned in a collateral

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

proceeding in another State, notwithstanding the provision of
the fourth article of the Constitution and law of 1790 [Rev.
Stat. ยง905 et seq.], and notwithstanding the averments contained in the record of the judgment itself." There has been
no departure in the decisions of this court from the doctrines
announced in Thompson v. Whitman, whether the question
related to courts of general or to courts of limited or special
jurisdiction. It has been repeatedly affirmed. Knowles v.
Gaslight & Coke Co., 19 Wall. 58, 61; Hall v. Lanning, 91 U. S.
160, 165; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S.714, 732; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.107, 112; Grover & Baker Machine Co. v. Radcliffe, 137 U. S.287, 295; Thormann v. Frame, 176 U. S.350,
356; Bell v. Bell, 181 U. S.175, 178; Andrews v. Andrews, 188
U. S.14, 34. The general jurisdiction of the Ohio court undoubtedly embraced such a cause of action as was set forth
in the suit on the note. But we are of opinion that that court
had no authority or jurisdiction to render judgment against
the obligors, if the National Exchange Bank had in fact sold
the note and ceased before the commencement of that suit
to own it or to be entitled to receive the proceeds to its own
use. It was, in such case, in legal effect, a personal judgment
without service of process upon the defendants and without
their appearance in person or by an authorized attorney.
The proceedings were wanting in due process of law. The
obligors never consented to judgment by confession in favor
of one who was not the owner of the note or entitled to receive its proceeds, and the warrant of attorney cannot he held
to have authorized such a confession.
Perceiving no error of law in the record the judgment must
be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

