THOMAS v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

far. Probably the two phrases will be read together and the
statute made unquestionable as. a whole.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

dissenting.

Not being able to concur in the conclusion of the court that
the opinion of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin has affixed to
the statute of that State a much narrower meaning than the
text of the statute imports, and thinking, on the contrary,
that not only such text but the construction of the statute
adopted by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin operates to deprive the citizen of a lawful right to contract protected by the
Fourteenth Amendment, I dissent.

THOMAS v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE OHIO
STATE UNIVERSITY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 43. Argued Iarch 3, 1904.-Decided November 14,1904.
Jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States must appear affirmatively from distinct allegations, or facts clearly proven, and is not to be
established argumentatively or by mere inference and -when jurisdiction
depends upon diverse citizenship, absence of sufficient averments, or of
facts in the record, showing such diversity is fatal and the defect cannot
be waived by the parties, nor can consent confer jurisdiction.
For the purpose of suing and being sued in the Circuit Court of the United
States the members of a local corporation are conclusively presumed
to be citizens of the State by whose law it was created and in which
alone the corporate body has a legal existence.
While this court is not conclusively bound by the judgment of the highest
court of a State as to what is and is not w orporation of that State within

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

the jurisdictional rule, it will accept such judgment unless a contrary
view is demanded by most cogent reasons.
An averment that a Board of Trustees of a state institution was created
by and exists under the laws of a State, other than that of complainant,
and is a citizen of that State, without alleging that it is a corporation
of the State, or that each individual member of the Board is a citizen
of that State, and where the highest court of the State has decided that
the Board although possessing some of the attributes of a corporation is
not a corporation of such State, and held, insufficient to sustain the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on the ground of diverse citizenship.
Where a Board of Trustees of an institution can by the legislative act
creating it, sue and be sued collectively and is bound by the judgment,
a citizen of another State can sue it as such Board collectively, without
bringing in all the members thereof, in a Circuit Court of the United
States provided it affirmatively appears that each member of the Board
is a citizen of a State other than that of complainant.

THE facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., with whom Mr. Joseph Olds was
on the brief, for the Ohio State University.
Submitted by Mr. J. E. Sater and Mr. L. F. Sater for
Thomas et al.
MR. JUST-ICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us upon certified questions relating to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The suit is in equity, and the plaintiff is a citizen of Michigan.
The defendants are George Folsom, a citizen of California, and
the Board of Trustees of the Ohio State University.
The object of the bill was to effect the partition of certain
lands claimed by the plaintiff and the defendant Folsom as
tenants in common, but held adversely by the defendant
Board of Trustees. The plaintiff sought to have the title
determined as preliminary to partition.
The Board of Trustees appeared and demurred to the bill
as not making a case Qntitling the plaintiff to any relief against

THOMAS v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed-the
decree reciting that neither the plaintiff nor the defendant
Folsom had any title or interest in the lands described in the
bill, or in the rents or profits thereof, but that the same belonged to the Board of Trustees of the Ohio State University.
Folsom entered his appearance in the Circuit Court, but made
no defense, nor was any decree taken by default against him.
From that decree the plaintiff and the defendant Folsom
prayed and perfected an appeal.
It is certified that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was
wholly dependent upon diversity of citizenship, and that
neither defendant objected in the Circuit Court that the case
was not of equitable cognizance or that the court, as a Federal
court, was without jurisdiction to determine it. But in the
Circuit Court of Appeals Folsom insisted, among other things,
that the Circuit Court "had no cognizance of the cause because
the requisite diversity of citizenship does not exist, the Board
of Trustees of the Ohio State University not being a corporation
of Ohio within the jurisdictional rule imputing to the members
of that board citizenship of the State under whose law it is
organized."
The Circuit Court of Appeals propound the following questions:
1. Does the bill sufficiently aver that the Board of Trustees
of Ohio State University is a corporation of the State of Ohio,
or does it aver facts which in legal intendment constitute said
body a corporation of the State of Ohio, within the rule that
a suit by or against a corporation in a court of the United States
is conclusively presumed, for the purpose of the litigation, to
be one by or against citizens of the State creating the corporation?
2. If the said Board of Trustees be not such a corporation
as is required by the jurisdictional rule referred to, may this
suit be maintained against it as "The Board of Trustees of the
Ohio State University" without bringing the persons constituting the board before the court as defendants?
VOL. cxcv-1-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

3. If the said Board may sue or be sued in a Federal court
by the name of "The Board of Trustees of the Ohio State
University," although not constituting a corporation of the
State of Ohio, within the jurisdictional rule referred to in the
first question, do the facts stated on the face of the bill sufficiently show that the persons composing said Board of Trustees
are citizens of Ohio, or should the court take notice of the law
creating said Board of Trustees, and of other laws of Ohio
defining the qualification of such trustees, and by legal intendments find that the persons donstituting said board when this
bill was filed were in fact citizens of Ohio and that the requisite
diversity of citizenship existed to give jurisdiction to the
Circuit Court?
That the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States
is limited in the sense that it has no jurisdiction except that
conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United States;
that a cause is presumed to be without its jurisdiction unless
the contrary affirmatively appears; that such jurisdiction, or
the facts upon which in legal intendment it rests, must be
distinctly and positively averred in the pleadings or should
appear affirmatively and with equal distinctness in other parts
of the record, it not being sufficient that jurisdiction may be
inferred argumentatively; and that, for the purpose of suing
and being sued in a Circuit Court of the United States, the
members of a local "corporation" are conclusively presumed
to be citizens of the State by whose laws it was created, and in
which alone the corporate body has a legal existence; are
propositions so firmly established that further discussion of
them would be both useless and inappropriate. Brown v.
Keene, 8 Pet. 112, 115; Louisville, Cincinnati & Charleston
R. R. Co. v. Letson, 2 How. 497; Marshall v. Baltimore & Ohio
R. R. Co., 16 How. 314; Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, 18
How. 404, 405; Covington Drawbridge Co. v. Shepherd, 20 How.
227; Ohio & Mississippi R. R. Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black, 286,
296; Insurance Co. v. Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541; Robertson v. Cease,
97 U. S. 646, 648; Steamship Co. v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118, 120;

THOMAS v. BOARD OF TR USTEES.
195 U. S.

211

Opinion of the Court.-

King Bridge Co. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S. 225; Parkerv. Ormsby,
141 U. S. 81; Continental Nat. Bank v. Buford, 191 U: S. 120.
It is equally well established that when jurisdiction depends
upon diverse citizenship the absence of sufficient averments or
of facts in the record showing such required diversity of citizenship is fatal and cannot be overlooked by the court, even
if the parties fail to call attention to the defect, or consent that
it may be waived. Mansfield, C. & L. M. Ry. Co. v. Swan,
111 U. S. 379; Martinv. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 151 U. S.
673, 689; Powers v. Chesapeake ;& Ohio Ry.,. 169 U. S.92, 98.
As late as in Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S.
48, 62, 63, we said, both parties insisting upon the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court: "Consent of the parties can never confer
jurisdiction upon a Federal court. If the record does not
affirmatively show jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, we must,
upon our own motion, so declare and make such order as will
prevent that court from exercising an authority not conferred
upon it by statute."
So that the fact stated in the certificate that neither party
in the Circuit Court objected to its jurisdiction is of no consequence.
Two other cases illustrating the above rules may be specially
referred to.
In Chapman v. Barney, 129 U. S.677, 682, which was a suit,
in the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, by
the United States Express Company against a citizen of Illinois,
the declaration alleged that the company was organized under
and by virtue of the laws of New York and was a citizen of that
State. The court said: "On looking into the record we find
no satisfactory showing as to the citizenship of the plaintiff.
The allegation of the amended petition is, that the United
States Express Company is a joint-stock company organized
under a law of the State of New York, and is a citizen of that
State. But the express company cannot be a- citizen of New
York, within the meaning of the statutes regulating jurisdiction, unless it be a corporation. The allegation that the con-

•212

OCT0OBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

pany was organized under the laws of New York is not an allegation that it is a corporation. In fact, the allegation is, that
the company is not a corporation, but a joint-stock company
-that is, a mere partnership. And, although it may be authorized by the laws of the State of New York to bring suit
in the name of its president, that fact cannot give the company power, by that name, to sue in a Federal court. The
company may have been organized under the laws of the State
of New York, and may be doing business in that State, and yet
all the members of it may not be citizens of that State. The
record does not show the citizenship of Barney or of any of
the members of the company."
In Great Southern Fire Proof Hotel Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S.
449, 456, 457, the bill alleged that the plaintiffs Jones and others
were members of a limited partnership association, doing business, by their firm name, under the authority of a Pennsylvania
statute, and that such association was a citizen of that State.
Although the constitution of Pennsylvania provided that the
term corporation, as used in a certain article of that instrument, should be construed as including all joint-stock companies or associations having any of the powers or privileges
of corporations not possessed by individuals or partnerships,
and although the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania had held
that it would not be improper to call a limited partnership,
created under its statutes, a quasi corporation having some of
the characteristics of a corporation, this court, without considering the merits of the case, said: "When the question relates to the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States
as resting on the diverse citizenship of the parties we must look
in the case of a suit by or against a partnership association to
the citizenship of the several persons composing such association. . . . That a limited partnership association created
under the Pennsylvania statute may be described as a 'quasi
corporation,' having some of the characteristics of a corporation, or as a 'new artificial person,' is not a sufficient reason
for regarding it as a corporation within the jurisdictional rule

THOMAS v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

heretofore adverted to. That rule must not be extended.
We are unwilling to extend it so as to embrace partnership
associations.

.

.

.

We theref6re adjudge that as the bill

does not make a case arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, it was necessary to set out the citizenship
of the individual members of the partnership association of
Jones & Laughlins, Limited, which brought this suit." The
judgment was reversed, upon the ground that the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court did not affirmatively appear from the
record. Upon the return of the cause to the court of original
jurisdiction the bill was amended, and it was alleged that each
member of the partnership was a citizen of Pennsylvania.
The case was then heard upon its merits and was again brought
here and determined. Great Southern Fire Proof Hotel Co.
v. Jones, 193 U. S. 532.
In the light of these decisions we come to the question
whether the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court affirmatively
appears in this case. If it does not, it must be held that that
court had no authority to take cognizance of it.
The bill alleges that the defendant, the Board of Trustees
of the Ohio State University, "was created by and exists under
and by virtue of a law duly passed and enacted by the Legislature of said State of Ohio, on March 22, 1870, and now
known and designated as sections 4105-9 and following,
of the Revised Statutes of said State of Ohio, and the subsequent acts amendatory of and supplementary thereto;" that
said board, "under and by virtue of the aforesaid laws and
enactments, and at all times since its creation and establishment, is fully authorized and empowered to sue and be sued,
to contract and be contracted with, to make and use a common
seal, and to alter the same at its pleasure, and to adopt by-laws,
rules and regulations for the government of said college, and
to have the general supervision of all lands, buildings and other
property belonging to said college, and of receiving by gift,
devise or bequest, moneys, lands and other properties for its
benefit and for the benefit of those under its charge, subject,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

however, to the provisions, exceptions, and restrictions contained in section twenty and five thousand nine hundred and
fifteen of the Revised Statites of the State of Ohio;" and is
"a citizen of and domiciled in the State of Ohio." 67 0. L.
20; 75 0. L. 126; R. S. Ohio, § 4105 et seq.
Do those averments, taken in connection with the statutes
of Ohio relating to the defendant Board-of the provisions
of which statutes judicial notice may be taken, Hanley v.
Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1, 6-sufficiently show that the Circuit
Court was entitled to take cognizance of this case?
If the defendant Board had been specifically averred to be
and was in fact a corporation created by and existing under
the laws of Ohio, then within the meaning of the adjudged
cases the controversy would have been one between citizens of
different States, and consequently within the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court; for, in that case, the legal presumption
would be that the Trustees were citizens of the State by which
the corporation was brought into existence, and no averment
or evidence to the contrary would be admissible for the purpose of withdrawing the suit from the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court. Ohio & Miss. R. R. Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black,
286, 296. Here the averment is only that the defendant Board
of Trustees is a citizen of and domiciled in Ohio; not that the
Trustees themselves are citizens of that State. That averment
alone is not sufficient. In Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18
How. 404, 405, which was a suit brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Indiana, the declaration
alleged that the plaintiffs were citizens of Ohio, and that the
defendant, the Lafayette Insurance Company, was a citizen of
Indiana. This court, speaking by Justice Curtis, said: "This
averment is not sufficient to show jurisdiction. It does not
appear from it that the Lafayette Insurance Company is a corporation, or, if it be such, by the law of what State it was
created. The averment that the company is a citizen of the
State of Indiana can have no sensible meaning attached to it.
This court does not hold that either a voluntary association of

THOMAS v. BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
195 U. S.

215

Opinion of the Court.

persons, or an association into a body politic, created by law,
is a citizen of a State within the meaning of the Constitution."
It is vital that the corporate character of the collective body
should be averred or shown.
The fundamental inquiry therefore is whether the defendant
Board of Trustees is a "corporation" within the jurisdictional
rule that admits of a corporation being regarded, for purposes
of suing and being.sued in the courts of the United States, as
a citizen of the State under and by the laws of which it was
created. The pleadings, we have seen, do not in terms aver
the Board to be a corporation; only that it is a citizen of and
domiciled in Ohio, and to have been created as a collective body
by the laws of that State, with power to sue and be sued by the
name of the Board of Trustees of the Ohio State University.
Those laws must therefore be examined in order to ascertain
whether, for purposes of suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States, the Board may be deemed a corporation of Ohio within
the meaning of the above cases.
In determining this question we are confronted with the fact
that the statute creating the defendant Board was clearly a
special, as distinguished from a general act, and that the
Constitution of Ohio forbade the passage of any special act
conferring corporate powers. Const. Ohio, Art. XIII, § 1. So
that the Board of Trustees cannot be held to have been made
a corporation or endowed with corporate powers without holding that the act by which it was created was invalid under the
Constitution of Ohio; whereas, the Supreme Court of Ohio
have adjudicated that the act was valid as not conferring, and
as not intended to confer, corporate powers on the Board.
This question was presented in Neill v. Board of Trustees of
the Ohio Agricultural and Mechanical College, 31 Ohio St. 15,
21, (1876) which was the original name of the Ohio State
University. The validity of the act creating the Board was
there brought in question as having, to all intents and purposes, created a corporation and clothed it with corporate
powers and privileges. But the Supreme Court of Ohio said:

AOCTOBER

TERM, 1904.

Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

"We are not able to yield our assent to this construction of the
statute. The act is entitled 'An act to establish and maintain
an agricultural and mechanical college in Ohio.' It creates a
board of trustees to be appointed by the Governor by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate; and commits to such
board the government, control and general management of
the affairs of the institution; and while the statute authorizes
the board to make contracts for the benefit of the college, and
to maintain actions, if necessary, to enforce them, and to exercise other powers similar to those conferred on bodies corporate,
it does not assume to, nor does it in fact, create or constitute
such board of trustees a corporation; and hence does not clothe
it with corporate functions or powers. The State ex rel. The
Attorney General v. Davis, 23 Ohio St. 434. The college is a
state institution, designed and well calculated to promote
public educational interests established for the people of the
whole State, to be managed and controlled by such agencies
as the legislature in its wisdom may provide. Similar powers,
but perhaps less extensive, because less required, are conferred
on the trustees of the various hospitals for the insane (73 0. L.
80), and on the board of managers of the Ohio Soldiers' and
Sailors' Orphans' Homes (67 0. L. 53), and other institutions
of the State. The powers thus conferred are essentially necessary to accomplish the objects for which these institutions
were established. The power to establish them is found
clearly granted in the seventh article of the Constitution."
The article here referred to gave the legislature power to establish benevolent and other state institutions.
Thus, upon an issue distinctly made, the Supreme Court of
Ohio has adjudged that the defendant Board is not, and was
not intended to be made, a corporation of the State, but only
an agency to manage and control a state institution as the
State may direct or provide. And the interpretation of the
state constitution upon which that judgment rests has never
been modified by that court.
While the state court may not conclusively determine for

THOMAS y. BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this court what is and what is not a corporation within the
meaning of the jurisdictional rule that a corporation, for purposes of suing and being sued in the courts of the United
States, is, under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, to be deemed a citizen of the State by whose laws it
is created, nevertheless, this court should accept the judgment
of the highest court of a State upon the question whether a
particular body created by its laws is or is not a corporation,
by virtue of those laws, unless a contrary view is demanded
by most cogent reasons involving or affecting the constitutional
and statutory jurisdiction of the Federal courts. No such
reasons exist in this case; and accepting the above decision of
the Supreme Court of Ohio- as correctly interpreting the constitution and laws of that State, we hold that while the defendant Board is clothed with some, it is not clothed with all, of
the functions belonging to technical corporations, and is not
such a corporation as may sue and be sued in a Circuit Court.
of the United States as a citizen of Ohio. A contrary ruling
would, we apprehend, produce confusion and embarrassment
in litigation relating to those public state institutions or
agencies in Ohio which, according to the decision of its highest court, were not endowed, nor intended to be endowed,
with corporate powers.
It is contended, however, that the bill sufficiently shows
that the persons constituting the Board of Trustees of the
Ohio State University were in fact citizens of Ohio, and therefore, as the Board had power to sue and be sued, and to contract and be contracted with, in its collective name, the requisite diversity of citizenship sufficiently appeared from the
pleadings. This contention is not warranted by any distinct
averments in the bill. The bill contains no such averment.
As already stated, it alleges that the Board is a citizen of Ohio,
not that the 'trustees are citizens of that State. As already
stated, the bill does not in terms even allege that the Board is
a corporation, although it shows that it possesses some of the
characteristics of corporati6ns. The constitution of Ohio pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

vides that no person shall be elected or appointed to any office
in the State, unless he possesses the qualifications of an elector;
and an elector must be a citizen of the State, Const. Art. XV,
§ 4, Art. V, § 1; therefore it must be taken not only that each
Trustee of the Ohio State University holds an office within the
meaning of the state constitution, but is in fact a citizen of
that State; and the allegation that the Board was created by
and existed as an organized body under the laws of Ohio was
equivalent to an allegation that the trustees are each and all
citizens of Ohio. Such is the process of reasoning by which it
is attempted to support the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
in the present case. But it is settled that the jurisdiction of
a court of the United States must appear from distinct allegations or from facts clearly proven, and is not to be established
argumentatively or by mere inference. The presumption is
that a cause is without the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the
United States, unless the contrary affirmatively and distinctly
appears. Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 112, 115, and other cases
above cited.
For the reasons stated the first question must be answered
in the negative. To the second question our answer is that as
the Board was entitled to sue and be sued by their collective
name, and would be bound by any judgment rendered against
it in that name, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court would
have sufficiently appeared, so far as the pleadings were concerned, without bringing the several persons constituting the
Board before the court as defendants, provided the bill had
contained the additional allegation that each individual Trustee was a citizen of Ohio. Each branch of the third question
must be answered in the negative. These answers will be
certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals with liberty to that
court to authorize such amendment of the bill in the Circuit
Court as will show jurisdiction.
It is so ordered.

