LOCKHART ?-. LEEDS.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and 1585, allowing sea rations, because the later act covered
the same subject and superseded the provisions of those sections. There is no such conflict between section 1571 and the
Personnel Act.
The ruling of the Court of Claims in this last particular was
correct; but for the error in the previous ruling the decree must
be
Reversed.

LOCKHART v. LEEDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 10. Argued October 20, 1904.-Decided December 5, 1904.
Pleadings must be construed reasonably and not with such strictness as
to refuse to adopt the natural construction of the pleading because a
particular fact might have been more distinctly alleged, although its
existence is fairly, naturally and reasonably to be presumed from the
averments actually made.
There is nothing in the intricacy of equity pleading that prevents plaintiff
from obtaining the relief under the general prayer to which he may be
entitled upon the facts plainly stated in the bill; and the court will not
deny the relief if plaintiff is otherwise entitled thereto because it is asked
under the general relief prayer on a different theory from that which is
advanced under one of the special prayers.
Where the defendants are in possession of a mine, having obtained title
thereto from the Government through fraud and connivance with one
who was legally bound to take the title for the plaintiff, and the pliintiff cannot maintain ejectment, never having had the legal title, his
remedy is by action in equity to have the defendants declared trustees
ex maleficio for his benefit, and if it also appears that some of them are
insolvent the defendants will be restrained from further mining pendente
lite.

appellant filed his bill in this suit in the proper court of
New Mexico for the purpose of obtaining relief against the
defendants mentioned therein. The defendants demurred on
several grounds, among which was that the complainant's
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

remedy, if any, was at law, and that the bill did not state a
case for a court of equity. The demurrer was sustained and
the bill dismissed, and the judgment of dismissal was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of New Mexico, and the complainant
thereupon appealed to this court. Among other things the
bill averred that about May 7, 1893, the complainant and one
Johnson, and the defendant Pilkey, entered into an agreement
in Bernalillo County, New Mexico, by which they were to become partners in the enterprise mentioned in the agreement,
and that for the consideration mentioned therein Pilkey was to
start out to discover, if possible, and to locate for the purpose
of operation by the parties, any mining claim of gold, silver or
other metal, and that in order to enable Pilkey to carry out
his portion of the agreement he was to be furnished certain
tools, etc., and some money. If he discovered any such mine
it was his duty to locate the same and to send in to the other
partners specimens of the ore in order that its value might
be determined. Work was to be begun within twenty days
after the signing of the agreement. Any fraud by Pilkey was
to forfeit his share, which was to be one-third interest in any
mine discovered and worked.
The agreement was to continue for a year, and all discoveries
and locations of any mines during that time by Pilkey were to
be under the agreement mentioned. After the making of this
agreement Pilkey started out to prospect and to discover, if
possible, a mining claim of the character mentioned. The
patties were aware at the time of the execution of the agreement of the existence of the place where Pilkey went for the
purpose of prospecting and discovering a mine, and that there
possibly might be a valuable claim at that place. Accordingly, Pilkey at once went to the spot, and on or about the
tenth of July, 1893, he discovered the claim at that place, and
it turned out to be a valuable mine. He located the mine
according to the agreement, and posted the notice thereon
provided by the-laws of the United States and New Mexico,
and proceeded to do work thereon pursuant to the provisions

LOCKHART v. LEEDS.
195 U. S.

4129,

Statement of the Case.

of those laws, but did not do all the work made necessary by
them. The bill then alleges that-Pilkey commenced to sink
a shaft or cut upon the mineral-bearing lode, and did work
enough thereon to arrive at mineral-bearing ore in place, within
less than ninety days from the time of taking possession of the
lode, and it is then averred that the parties were ready, able
and willing in all things to comply with the laws spoken of,
"and would have so done except for the wrongful, fraudulent
and unlawful acts of the defendants hereinafter mentioned."
Some time about October 1, 1893, Pilkey, while so in possession of the lode, wrongfully and fraudulently conspired,
combined and confederated with the defendants to defraud
plaintiff, and they agreed that said Pilkey, in violation and
fraud of the rights of the plaintiff in and to the mine, should
transfer, convey and deliver possession of the mine to the defendants, or one of them, without the knowledge or consent of
plaintiff and the said Johnson. This was done. It was also
agreed that they should do all other acts necessary to transfer
the right to defendants. Pilkey was to have a certain proportion of interest in the mine and the defendants the balance.
The defendants also caused and procured the defendant Pilkey
to stop work upon the mine under the agreement already referred to, and it was also agreed that Pilkey should fail and
neglect to record, in the proper office, a copy of the location
notice posted by him on the ground. The defendants also
covered up and concealed the work which had been done on
the ground by Pilkey, and they posted another notice thereon
and called the mine the "Washington" mine, and filed a copy
of the same for record December 13, 1893, without the knowledge or consent of the plaintiff or his copartner, Johnson, and
they made the location for the benefit of themselves as locators
under the mining laws of the United States. For the purpose
of concealing the interest of Pilkey in such pretended location
it was agreed that each of the four defendants named should
be entitled to a fifth interest, and that Pilkey should be entitled to the remaining fifth, which last-named interest should

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

be claimed and held by Walker in trust for Pilkey. Johnson
subsequently transferred all his interest, under the agreement
of copartnership between plaintiff, Johnson and Pilkey, to the
complainant, who was, at the time of the commencement of
the suit, the owner of Johnson's interest under the assignment. The bill further states that after the removal by the
defendants of the original location notice posted by Pilkey,
as already stated, the complainant procured a copy thereof
and had the same recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county on December 9, 1893. The complainant averred that,
by virtue of the premises, he became and was at the commencement of the suit the equitable owner of said mine, and
of the gold and silver ores therein contained, so discovered and
located by Pilkey under the agreement, and that he was
equitably entitled, as against the defendants, to the possession
and enjoyment of the same and to the preferential right to
acquire the legal title from the United States, and that the
pretended location of the mine under the name of the Washington mine, by and in the names of the defendants named,
was wholly inoperative and void, and that Pilkey, by reason
of his participation in a fraudulent conspiracy with the defendants, forfeited all right or interest in the said mine pursuant to the agreement made by Pilkey with complainant and
Johnson, and complainant averred that he was equitably the
owner of and entitled to such interest. He further averred
that the defendants refused to permit complainant to enter
upon the property or to work the same, and that the defendants claim title to the mining property under and by virtue
of their agreement with Pilkey and their pretended location
of the same as the Washington lode. It is further averred
that the defendants were engaged in mining, extracting and
converting to their own use the ores and minerals contained
in the mine and had mined and removed ores and minerals
of great value therefr6m, and had converted to their own use
all such minerals, and that, unless enjoined, they would remove all the ores and minerals, and thereby the entire sub-

V
195 U. S.

LOCKHART v. LEEDS.
Argument .for Appellees.

stance and value of the property would be destroyed and the
complainant would sustain irreparable injury, as the defend-.
ants, or some of them, were wholly insolvent. To this bill
the defendants demurred, as already stated.
Mr. J. H. McGowan for appellant:
The facts set out in the bill were sufficient to apprise the
defendahts what they were called on to answer. They show
the fraud of defendants. Atkins v. Dick, 14 Peters, 114;
United States v. Am. Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315; Gould's
Eq. Pr. § 176; Ency. Pl. & Pr. §271; Shipman Eq. Pr. § 231.
The complainant is entitled to equitable relief in the absence
of allegations showing why he himself did not record the location notice within the required time beyond those in the bill
which set forth the contract and showed that appellant relied.
on his partner who was to do all the required acts for location
according to law.
That appellant has no remedy at law was settled finally in
Lockhart v. Johnson, 181 U. S. 516. The prayer of the bill
including that of general relief is sufficient to warrant the
court in holding the defendants trustees for appellant. Story
Eq. P1. § 40; Stanley v. Valentine, 79 Illinois, 544; Hopkins v.
Snedaker, 71 Illinois, 449; Espinola v. Blasco, 15 Louisiana,
426; Hilleary v. Hurale, 6 Gill. 105; McIntyre v. Philadelphia,
24 Pennsylvania, 439; Van Voorhis v. Bond, 110 Michigan, 3;
Webster v. Harris, 16 Ohio, 490; Holden v. Holden, 24 Ill.
App. 106.
Mr. W. B. Childers for appellees:
The bill was insufficient. There was no averment that
possession was taken before the expiration of the ninety days
allowed for perfecting a location. Story on Eq. P1. §§ 241, 246.
The facts which determine whether the remedy is at law or
equity are not distinctly alleged. Dillon v. Barnard,21 Wall.
437. Recovery must be had on the case made by the pleading
or not at all. Grosholz v. Newman, 21 Wall. 488; Harding v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

Handy, 11 Wheat. 103; Harrison v. Nixon, 9 Peters, 483;
Bradley v. Converse, 4 Cliff. 366. The groundwork of the case
on which relief is sought must be distinctly alleged in the bill.
Pelham v. Edelmeyer, 15 Fed. Rep. 262; Foster v. Goddard, 1
Black, 506; Socola v. Grant, 15 Fed. Rep. 487; Eyre v. Potter,
15 How. 42; Kohler v. Hubbey, 2 Black, 715; Wilkinson v.
Dobbie, 12 Blatch. 298; S. C., Fed. Cas. 17,670. As to what
particularity is necessary in allegations of fraud, see United
States v. Atherton, 102 U. S. 372; Ambler v. Choteau, 107 U. S.
589; Voorhees v. Bostwick, 16 Wall. 16; 9 Ency. of P1. & Pr.
687, and authorities cited; Fogg v. Blair, 139 U. S. 127; St.
Louis Ry. Co. v. Johnston, 127 U. S. 577; Van Weel v. Winston,
115 U. S. 237; Brooks v. O'Hara,7 Fed. Rep. 532; Phelps v.
Elliot, 35 Fed. Rep. 455.
General accusations of fraud and collusion are ineffective.
1 Daniell, Ch. Pr., 5th ed., 324, and notes; Riley v. Lyons, 11
Heisk. 251; Whitthorne v. St. Louis M. I. Co., 3 Tenn. Ch. 147;
Hazard v. Griswold, 21 Fed. Rep. 178; Lafayette Co. v. Neely,
21 Fed. Rep. 744.
The defendants cannot be held as constructive trustees
under the prayer for general relief, only such relief as is agreeable to the case made by the .bill can be granted. English v.
Foxall, 2 Peters, 612; Hobson v. McArthur's Heirs, 16 Peters,
182; Boon v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 177; Wilson v. Graham, 4 Wash.
C. C. 53; S. C., 30 Fed. Cases, No. 17,804; Allen v. Pullman
Palace Car Co., 139 U. S. 658; Hayward v. National Bank, and
cases cited, 96 U. S. 614; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 77; 1
Daniell's Ch. Pr. 386; Curry v. Lloyd, 22 Fed. Rep. 264; Story
Eq. P1. §42; 3 Ency. of P1. & Pr. 350. The bill was not filed
for the purpose now claimed.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM,

One phase of this controversy has already been before this
court in Lockhart v. Johnson, 181 U. S. 516, which was an ac-

LOCKHART v. LEEDS.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of ejectment brought by the plaintiff (who is the complainant herein) to recover possession of the mine above mentioned from the defendants herein. It was there held that the
plaintiff could not maintain an action, as the facts showed that
he had no legal title, and that the remedy he might have, if
any, was in equity.
Upon the trial of the ejectment action the plaintiff offered
to prove in substance the same facts as are set forth in this
bill in regard to Pilkey's action under the agreement with
plaintiff and Johnson, and the fraudulent conspiracy entered
into by the defendants for the purpose of defrauding the plaintiff out of his right4o such mine. The evidence was objected
to and excluded on the ground that it did not show any legal
title in the plaintiff, assuming its truth; that in the courts of
the United States an action of ejectment was based upon the
strict legal title, and if the plaintiff failed to show that it was
in him he must fail in such action. The defendants now contend that if the plaintiffs have any remedy it is at law, and also
that there is no cause of action stated in the bill. At the time
of the trial of this suit the ejectment action had not been
decided by this court, the action having been here decided
May 13, 1901. It must be regarded, as determined by the
decision in that case, that the complainant herein. has no
remedy -at law, and if he has none in this suit he is without
remedy for the gross fraud set out in the bill. All facts well
pleaded in the bill are admitted by the demurrer, and the
question, therefore, is, whether the bill states facts sufficient
to entitle him to relief in a court of equity.
The court below has held that the bill does not state with
sufficient certainty the time when plaintiff discovered the
alleged fraud set forth in the bill, in that it does not appear
by any certain averment that the plaintiff did not discover
such fraud before the expiration of the ninety days after the
discovery of the lode in which to file a copy of the notice of
location in the recorder's office, which, if he had done, he might,
by himself filing the copy, have thereby fulfilled all the proVOL. oxev-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

visions of the statute relating to the location and recording
of the notice of claim. We entirely agree with the court below
that the facts constituting the cause of action in equity must
be distinctly alleged so that the defendant may know what
he has to meet and so that he may, if he choose, put them in
the issue. The rule must receive a reasonable interpretation
and must be so enforced as to further and not obstruct the
administration of justice. We think the court below erred in
holding that there was no sufficient averment as to the time
of the discovery by plaintiff of the alleged fraud set forth in
the bill, assuming such averment to have been necessary. He
averred that Pilkey, acting under the agreement with plaintiff and Johnson, discovered the mine and located the same
by posting the requisite notice on the ground on the tenth of
July, 1893. He also averred that some time about the first
of October (the exact time, however, he could not state) the
defendants entered into the conspiracy and combination referred to. This was but a few days before the expiration of
the statutory time in which to file a copy of the notice of
claim in the recorder's office of the county. He averred that
the conspiracy and combination was secret, and that while the
plaintiff and his copartner Johnson were able and willing to
comply with all the laws of the United States and Territory,
they failed to do so because of the wrongful, fraudulent and
unlawful acts of the defendants hereinafter mentioned. Those
acts were a secret effacement of the work done by Pilkey, the
taking down of the notice of claim posted on the ground by
him, the failure to file a copy thereof, the posting of a claim
on the part of the defendants, and the filing of a copy of such
notice in the recorder's office on December 13, 1893.
We think the plain import of these averments is that the
conspiracy and combination did not become known to the
plaintiff until after the expiration of the ninety days from
the discovery of the mine, in which to file a copy of the notice
posted on the ground, in the recorder's office of the proper
county. That is a sufficiently definite averment of time, and

LOCKHART v. LEEDS.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it is enough to show that the failure to file a copy of the notice
within the necessary time was owing to the action of the defendants.
Under the agreement first mentioned between plaintiffs,
Johnson and Pilkey, as copartners, it became the duty of
Pilkey, in order to complete the location it was his duty to
make, to file a copy of the notice in the recorder's office, and
the parties to the agreement had the right to rely upon Pilkey
to fie the necessary copy for record, and it is plain that the
failure to file on the part of the plaintiff was because of his
ignorance of such failure on the part of Pilkey consequent
upon Pilkey's fraudulent conspiracy and agreement with the
other defendants not to fie it. After the discovery of the
conspiracy the plaintiff did procure a copy of the original
notice posted by Pilkey on the ground and fied the same in
the office of the recorder on the tenth of December, 1893.
Taking these allegations together, we think it hypercritical to
hold that the bill does not with sufficient distinctness allege
the fact that the plaintiff did not discover the fraud until after
the expiration of the ninety days mentioned, and hence did
not himself file the copy notice within that time.
All pleadings must be construed reasonably, and not with
such strictness as to refuse to adopt the natural construction
of the pleading because a particular fact might have been
more distinctly alleged, although its existence is fairly, naturally and reasonably to be presumed from the averments made
in the pleading.
The agreement between the plaintiffs, Pilkey and Johnson,
shows it to have been the duty of Pilkey to make the necessary
filing for record in order to complete the location of the mine
which he in the agreement was to do. The plaintiff had the
right to rely upon Pilkey carrying out that agreement and
fulfilling his duty thereunder by making the necessary filing,
and plaintiff alleges that he would have done all things made
necessary by law had it not been for this fraudulent combination and conspiracy on the part of the defendants. We

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

regard the allegations of the bill as sufficient in these particulars.
Again, it is alleged that the bill prays that the location of
what is called the Washington lode by the defendants be declared void, and that the plaintiff may have the possession of
the claim, while the plaintiff now asks to have the defendants
treated as constructive trustees, etc., which is inconsistent,
as alleged, with the former prayer for relief. The bill contains
a prayer for general relief in addition to the prayer for special
relief, and under such prayer this relief may be given. It is
objected that under the prayer for general relief no relief of
that nature can be granted, inasmuch as it is opposed to the
special relief asked for by the bilf, and also because the general
allegations in the bill do not justify such relief. All the facts
upon which the plaintiff seeks relief from a court of equity
are clearly stated in the bill. The facts constituting the fraud
are set forth, and it is alleged that the parties doing the acts
mentioned concealed them from the plaintiff for the purpose
of defrauding plaintiff out of his interest and ownership in the
mine. Having set out all the facts upon which the right to
relief is based, the plaintiff asks specially for the possession
and also for the proceeds of the mine, because, by reason of
the facts, the location made by the defendants was a void
location. Whether it was a void location or not, was matter
of law arising from the facts appearing in the bill. Those facts
were not changed in the slightest degree, nor were any inconsistent facts set up thereafter. The plaintiff now under his
prayer for general relief contends that, although the location
of the Washington lode by the defendants may have been so
far valid as to create a title in the defendants, yet that by
reason of the fraud already distinctly set forth in the bill the
plaintiff was entitled to avail himself of that title, and to hold
them as trustees ex maleficio, for his benefit.
There is nothing in the intricacy of equity pleading that
prevents the plaintiff from obtaining the relief under the general prayer, to which he may be entitled upon the facts plainly

LOCKHART w. LEEDS.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stated-in the bill. There is no reason for denying his right to
relief, if the plaintiff is otherwise entitled to it, simply because
it is asked under the prayer for general relief and upon a somewhat different theory from that which is advanced under one
of the special prayers. The cases of English v. Foxall, 2 Pet.
595; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; Hobson v. McArthur, 16
Pet. 182; Hayward v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 611; Georgia v.
Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, are not opposed to the views just stated.
We agree that the relief granted under the prayer for ge]eral relief must be agreeable to the case made by the bill, and
that in substance is what is held by the above cases. The case
made by the bill consists of the material facts therein stated,
and where all. the facts are stated it is no reason for denying
relief under a general prayer, because it may differ from the
theory of the law upon which the special prayer for relief is
based, where both prayers are based upon the same facts
clearly set forth in the bill.
The defendants contend that if Pilkey, under the fraudulent
agreement alleged, and pursuant thereto, surrendered possession to the defendants; the latter became co-tenants with the
plaintiff, and he could maintain an action at law to recover
possession from his co-tenants. We have already held that
the plaintiff could not, upon the facts, maintain ejectment.
When Pilkey surrendered possession to defendants under this
fraudulent agreement, and they entered and posted the notice
and filed the copy, they did not enable plaintiff to maintain
ejectment against them as upon his ouster of possession by
defendants.
Neither plaintiff nor Johnson had ever had anything but a
constructive possession through the possession of Pilkey, and
when he fraudulently surrendered it to the other defendants
and they entered and completed their location, the plaintiff
could not then sustain ejectment, as we have already held.
This is not in opposition to the case of Erhardt v. Boaro, 113
U. S. 527. The question whether the relief should be at law
or in equity was not there raised. The action was commenced

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

.195 U. S.

in Colorado, and was in accordance with the usual form in
actions for mining claims under the procedure in Colorado,
and was brought to recover possession of a mine. There was
no discussion as to the forum. The complaint simply followed
the usual practice. Here we have already held in the ejectment suit (181 U. S. supra), that the relief is not to be had by
ejeetment, but must be obtained in equity if at all. Under
the circumstances we think it immaterial whether Pilkey surrendered possession before or after the expiration of ninety
days from the discovery of the mine, July 10, 1893. All the
acts of fraud set up in the bill committed by the defendants
are, if proved, sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to treat them
as trustees ex maleficio, and to recover from them as such "
trustees all the materials taken from the mine. See Saunders
v. Mackey, 5 Montana, 523; Doherty v. Morris, 11 Colorado,
12. Upon the case made by the bill, some of the defendants
being insolvent, we think the plaintiff entitled to an injunction
restraining the defendants from further mining during the
pendency of the suit; an injunction to issue upon such security
as may seem appropriate to the court below.
We decide this case solely upon the.questions raised by the
demurrer.
The judgments of the Supreme Court of New Mexico and of
the trial court must be reversed, and the case remanded to
the Supreme Court with directions to remand it to the District
Court for the Second Judicial District of the Territory of
New Mexico, within and for the county of Bernalillo, with
directions to overrule the defendants' demurrer and with leave
to answer upon such terms as may seem proper to that court.
So ordered.

