DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Syllabus.

tended between stock in corporations of which the property
is taxed by the State and that in corporations otherwise untaxed is emphasized by the thirty-third question: "How many
shares of stocks did you own, . . . issued by corporations
within this State, the capital stock of which or the property
of which is not returned by such corporation for taxation?"
We think the distinction consistent with the Constitution, if
not required by it as held in Burke v. Badlam, cited above.
Decree reversed.

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 107. Argued October 11, 12,1904.-Decided November 14, 1904.
While every intendment is to be made in favor of the lawfulness of the
exercise of municipal power making regulations to- promote the public
health, municipal by-laws and ordinances, and even legislative enactments undertaking to regulate useful business enterprises, are subject
to investigation in the courts with a view to determining whether the law
or ordinance is a lawful exercise of the police power, or whether, under the
guise of enforcing police regulations, there has been an unwarranted and
arbitrary interference with constitutional rights to carry on a lawful
business, make contracts, or use and enjoy property.
While the right to exercise the police power is a continuing one and a business lawful today may in the future become a menace to the public welfare and be required to yield to the public good, the exercise of the police
power is subject to judicial review, and property rights cannot be wrongfully destroyed by arbitrary enactment.
Although an ordinance may be lawful on its face and apparently fair in its
terms, yet if it is enforced in such a manner as to work a discrimination
against a part of a community for no lawful reason, such exercise of power
will be invalidated by the courts. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
A municipal ordinance was adopted in September fixing the limits within
which gasworks might be erected. Thereafter a permit was granted for
the erection of a plant; in November another ordinance was adopted
amending the September ordinance and by which ordinance the territory on which the works were in course of erection and purchased in
reliance upon the September ordinance was excluded. There had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

no change in the neighborhood or conditions. Held to be void as
against the holder of the permit as an arbitrary and discriminatory
exercise of the police power which amounted to a taking of property
without due process of law and an impairment of property rights protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Where property rights will be destroyed unlawful interference by criminal
proceedings under a void law or ordinance may be reached and controlled
by a court of equity.
THIS

is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State

of California seeking a reversal of the judgment of that court,
affirming the judgment of the Superior Court dismissing the
complaint of the plaintiff in error against the city of Los
Angeles. 139 California, 179.
Plaintiff in error filed a bill of complaint against the city
of Los Angeles, seeking an injunction to restrain the enforcement of certain ordinances prohibiting the erection or maintenance of gasworks except within prescribed limits in said
city.
The case was decided upon demurrer to the bill. The complaint sets forth in substance: That on August 26, 1901, the
city council of Los Angeles adopted an ordinance making it
unlawful to erect and maintain gasworks outside of a certain
district described in the ordinance and fixing penalties for the
violation thereof. While this ordinance was in force the plaintiff in error made a contract with the Valley Gas and Fuel
Company for the erection of certain gasworks upon territory
to be thereafter designated by her, and on September 28, 1901,
purchased lands within the limits of the privileged district as
fixed by the ordinance. That on November 22, 1901, upon
application to the board of fire commissioners of the city of
Los Angeles, that body granted to the plaintiff in error the
privilege to erect the gasworks upon the territory aforesaid.
Thereupon the plaintiff in error directed the Valley Gas and
Fuel Company to proceed with the erection of the works upon
the premises so purchased. That the foundations were constructed at a cost of upwards of $2,500. After the foundations
had been nearly completed the city council, on November 25,

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

225.•

Statement of the Case.

1901, passed a second ordinance, amending the first ordinance,
and thereby so limiting the boundaries of the territory within
which the erection of gasworks was permitted in said city as
to include the- premises of the plaintiff in error within the
prohibited territory. The work of constructing the works was
continuously prosecuted until the latter part of February,
1902, when the plaintiff in error alleges that the city of Los
Angeles, combining and confederating with one James R. C.
Burton and other persons unknown, caused certain employ6s
of the company engaged in the erection of said works to be
arrested, charged with the violation of the said city ordinance.
Other arrests were made on the first and third of March, 1902.
On March 3, 1902, the city council passed a third ordinance,
amending the ordinance of November 25, 1901, in respect to
the description of the district within which gaswbrks could be
erected. On March 6, 1902, the city caused the arrest of
certain persons employed by the company in charge of the
erection of the works, charged with the violation of the amended
city ordinance.
It is averred that the adoption by the city council of the
ordinances aforesaid and the attempted enforcement thereof
were instigated by officers and agents of the Los Angeles.
Lighting Company, a corporation engaged in manufacturing
and supplying gas in said city, and having a monopoly of said
business therein. It is further averred that the action of the
municipal authorities complained of was taken for the purpose
of protecting the said Los Angeles Lighting Company in the
enjoyment of its monopoly. It is also claimed that the terri-tory surrounding the premises of the plaintiff in error, and
within which, under the ordinance of August 26, in force when
the complainant made her purchase and located and begun
the erection of the gasworks it was lawful so to do, and which
by the amending ordinances was added to the prohibited territory, was and is a district devoted almost exclusively to
manufacturing enterprises. Within its boundaries there is a
large aniount of vacant and unoccupied land, which isafid
VOL. Oxov-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

will continue to be useless except for the erection of manufacturing establishments; within which were located at that
time a soap factory, a wool pulling factory, three wineries,
numerous oil wells in operation, iron foundry, brass foundry,
oil refinery; immediately east of said tract railroads and an
extensive tannery; immediately north the oil tanks and refinery of the Standard Oil Company. That the works being
constructed for the plaintiff in error are to be built upon
concrete foundations with a superstructure of non-combustible
material, so that there can be no danger from explosion,
bursting or leaking. The machinery is to be of the most approved pattern and that there can be no leakage or escape
of odors or any interference with the health, comfort or safety
of the inhabitants of the city.
The plaintiff in error, relying upon the protection of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, prays that the permit granted by the board of fire
commissioners be declared to be a valid and subsisting contract between the city of Los Angeles and herself, and that
all ordinances passed by the city council in contravention
thereof be declared void; that the defendant be enjoined from
enforcing said ordinances against the plaintiff, from delaying
or interfering with the action of the plaintiff in erecting the
said works, from interfering with the maintenance and operation of the same, and for general relief.
Mr. Lynn Helm and Mr. Edward C. Bailey, with whom
Mr. Henry T. Lee, Mr. J. R. Scott and Mr. Charles W. Chase
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
In passing upon a municipal ordinance, it is necessary to
its validity that its provisions should be determined to be
reasonable. Oxanna v. Allen, 90 Alabama, 468; Tugman v.
Chicago, 78 Illinois, 405; Chicago v. Rumpf, 45 Illinois, 90;
Toledo Railroad v. Jacksonville, 67 Illinois, 37; Lake View v.
Tate, 130 Illinois, 247.
The determination by the legislative body of what is a

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

proper exercise of the police power is not final nor conclusive, but is subject to the supervision of the -ourts, and what
is a reasonable ordinance is a judicial, and not a legislative,
question. Covington Turnpike Co. v. Sand/ord, 164 U. S. 578,
592; Lawton v. Steel, 152 U. S.153; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366; In re Smith, 77 Pac. Rep. 180; Ex parte Whitwell, 98
California, 73; Ex parteSingLee, 96 Colorado, 354; 1 Tiedeman
on State and Federal Control, 238; Jew Ho v. Williamson, 103
Fed. Rep. 10, 17-20; Weill v. Ricord, 24 N. J. Eq. 169; Yates
v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; People v. Budd, 117 N. Y. 1.
See contra, Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 139 California, 179, and
Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, distinguished. In Maxwell
v. Fulton, 119 Indiana, 23; Whittington v. Pope, 1 Har. & J.
236; Cooley's Const. Lim. 6th ed. 247, et seq., distinguished.
The legislature is distinguished from a municipal council
in enacting its police provisions and is not subject to review
by the courts merely because its laws may be unreasonable.
In determining the validity of an ordinance the objects
and purposes sought to be accomplished are always scrutinized by the courts, and in so doing they are not limited to
those matters which appear upon the face of the ordinance
or of which they may take judicial notice, but may consider
alf the circumstances in the light of existing conditions. Cases
cited under first point and see Ex parte Patterson, (Tex.) 58
S. W. Rep. 1011; People v. Armstrong, 73 Michigan, 288;
Wreford v. People, 14 Michigan, 41, 46; Cleveland Ry. Co. v.
City of Connersville, 147 Indiana, 277; State v. Boardman, 93
Maine, 73; Corregan v. Gage, 68 Missouri, 571; Pieri v. The
Mayor, 42 Mississippi, 493; Town of Kosciusko v. Slomberg, 68
Mississippi, 469; Crowley v. West, 52 La. Ann. 526.
The motives which actuate a municipal council in the
adoption of ordinances are material as showing the objects
and purposes for which the ordinances are adopted. Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; In re Ho Ah Kow, Fed. Case No. 6546;
C. B. & Q. Railroad v. Chicago, 116 U. S.234; Dillon on Mun.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

Corp. 4th ed. § 311; State v. Cincinnati Gas Light Coke Co.,
8 Ohio St. 262.
The ordinance of Los Angeles involved is invalid and not
binding upon the plaintiff in error as against her right to
conduct a lawful business of erecting gasworks and manufacturing gas for the following reasons: It is in violation of
the rights, privileges and immunities of a citizen of carrying
on a lawful occupation within that city. The business of
erecting or maintaining a gasworks is a lawful occupation.
Constitution of the State of California, Art. XI, § 19; Ex parts
Johnson, 137 California, 115; People v. Stevens, 62 California,
209.
A municipality has not the power or right to impose additional burdens or terms or conditions to the exercise of rights
created by the sovereign authority of the State in its constitution. Restrictions in the exercise of these rights are not regulations and at least impair if they do not deny the exercise
of the right. Summit v. N. Y. & N. J. Tel. Co., 57 N. J. Eq.
123; Atlanta v. Gate City Gaslight Co., 71 Georgia, 106; Michigan
Tel. Co. v. Benton Harbor, 121 Michigan, 512; Wisconsin Tel.
Co. v. Oshkosh, 62 Wisconsin, 32; Appeal of Pittsburg, 115
Pa. St. 4; Millvale v. Evergreen Railway Co., 131 Pa. St. 1;
HarrisburgCity Pass. R. R. Co. v. Harrisburg,149 Pa. St. 465;
State v. Flad, 23 Mo. App. 185; Hodges v. Telegraph Co., 72
Mississippi, 910.
This ordinance is void in that it is unreasonable because it
does not describe the district to which gasworks shall be
confined by any geographical or natural boundary or by any
reasonable designation.
This ordinance is invalid because it is an attempt on the
part of the city council to define and make that a nuisance
which is not a nuisance per se. Gasworks are neither in their
erection nor maintenance a nuisance per se and it is not within
the power of the city council to pass an ordinance making that
a nuisance which is not a nuisance per se, nor could such a
declaration make it a nuisance unless it in fact had that

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

character. Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497; C. R. I. & P.
R. R. v. Joliet, 79 Illinois, 39; Everett v. Council Bluffs, 46
Iowa, 66; Ex parte Sing Lee, 96 California, 354; Los Angeles v.
Hollywood Cemeter Assn., 124 California, 344; Grossman v.
Oakland, 30 Oregon, 478; Stockton Laundry Case, 31 Fed. Rep.
680; In re Hong Wah, 82 Fed. Rep. 623, 624, 626; Ex parte
Whitall, 98 California, 73; Wood on Nuisances, § 744.
The power granted in the city charter to abate nuisances
does not give power to prevent except in those cases of nuisances per se, and those things which only become nuisances
because of the method of their operation cannot be prevented
and stopped under the power to abate until it has been demonstrated they are nuisances. Lakeview v. Letz, 44 Illinois, 81, 83.
The ordinance of November 25, 1901, was repealed by the'
ordinance of March 3, 1902. The ordinances are on the same
subject matter. The latter ordinance covers the whole subject matter of the earlier and will repeal the former. 23 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 485.
The later ordinance is invalid f6r the reason that it is in
violation of the vested rights acquired by Mrs. Dobbins, by
virtue of her purchase of land within the limits of the district
within which it was lawful to erect gasworks by the terms of
the earlier ordinance and by virtue of the permit granted to
her by the fire commissioners under the existing building and
fire ordinances.
The rights acquired by said plaintiff in error were vested
rights. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 394; Farringtonv. Tennessee,
95 U. S. 679; Steamship Co. v. Jolliff, 2 Wall. 457; Worth v.
Cransen, 98 U. S. 118; Classen v. Chesapeake Guano Co., 81
Maryland, 258; Roberts v. Brooks, 71 Fed. Rep. 914; Baltimore
Trust Co. v. Baltimore, 64 Fed. Rep. 153; Levis v. Newton, 75
Fed. Rep. 884; Cleveland City Railroad Co. v. Cleveland, 94
Fed. Rep. 385; City Railway Company v. Citizens' Street Railway Co., 166 U. S. 562.
The ordinance of March 3, 1902, is void as depriving the said
plaintiff in error of property without due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

195 U. S.

Chicago v. Netcher, 183 Illinois, 104; C. B. & Q. R. R. v.
Chicago, 166 U. S. 234; Frorer v. People, 141 Illinois, 171;
Ramsey v. People, 142 Illinois, 380; Braceville Coal Co. v.
People, 147 Illinois, 66; Cooley's Const. Lim. 393. Nor is the
ordinance within the police power, nor is it a proper police
rgulation.
The police power has reference to those things which affect
the public health, the public safety, the public comfort, or the
public morals. Noel v. People, 187 Illinois, 587; State v.
Donaldson, 41 Minnesota, 74; Indianapolis v. Consumers' Gas
Trust Co., 140 Indiana, 107; Barthet v. New Orleans, 24 Fed.
Rep. 564; Buffalo v. Chadeayne, 134 N. Y. 163; New Orleans
Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; Walla Walla v.
Walla Walla Co., 172 U. S. 115.
Distinguished: Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25;
FertilizingCo. v. Hyde Park,97 U. S. 659; Stone v. Mississippi,
101 U. S. 814; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Butchers'
Union Co. v. Crescent City Live Stock Co., 111 U. S. 746; Ex
parte Lacey, 108 California, 326; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27; Knoxville v. Bird, 12 Lea, 121; Davenport v. Richmond, 81
Virginia, 636.
The provisions of sec. 11 of art. XI of the constitution of
California is not a grant of the police power. It is simply an
extension to counties, cities and towns of the right to exercise
powers that are inherent in the legislature as the representative
of the people; but it is in no sense an enlargement of that power.
Ex pare Campbell, 74 California, 20; Ex parte Roach, 104
California, 272; Los Angeles v. Hollywood Cemetery Assn., 124
California, 344.
A. court of equity has power to restrain by injunction a
municipality from instituting criminal proceedings when such
criminal prosecutions are threatened under color of an invalid
ordinance for the purpose of compelling the relinquishment of
a property right. Davis & Farnum Manufacturing Co. v. Los
Angeles, 189 U. S. 207; Central Trust Co. v. Citizens' St. Ry. Co.
80 Fed. Rep. 225; S. C., 82 Fed. Rep. 1; Reagan v. Trust Co.,

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

154 U. S. 326; Southern Express Co. v. Mayor, 116 Fed. Rep.
756; Lottery Co. v. Fitzpatrick, 3 Woods, 222; S. C., Fed. Cases
No. 8541; Springhead Spinning Co. v. Riley, L. R. 6 Eq. 588;
Osborn v. United States Bank, 3 Wheat. 738; Wood v. Brooklyn,
14 Barb. 425; Manhattan Iron Works v. French, 12 Abbott's
N. C. 446; Rushville v. Rushville Natural Gas Co., 132 Indiana,
575; Davis v. Fasig, 128 Indiana, 271; Platte & D. Canal &
Milling Co. v. Lee, Mayor, (Colo.) 29 Pac. Rep. 1036; Smith v.
Bangs, 15 Illinois, 399; Baltimore v. Radecke, 49 Maryland, 218;
Cape May & L. R. Co. v. Cape May, 35 N. J. Eq. 409; Los
Angeles City Water Co. v. Los Angeles, 103 Fed. Rep. 711;
Atlanta v. Gate City Gaslight Co., 71 Georgia, 196; Austin v.
Austin City Cemetery Assn., 87 Texas, 330; Port Mobile v.
Louisville & N. Railway Co., 84 Alabama, 115; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, 517; Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' Railway Co., 184
U. S. 368, 378.
The plaintiff in error, Caroline W. Dobbins, has no remedy
against the defendant in error for damages for the wrongful
arrest of her employ6s or for the destruction of her business
and property rights. Steadman v. San Francisco, 63 California, 193; Chope v. Eureka, 78 California, 508; Doeg v. Cook,
126 California, 213.
It is not enough that the plaintiff has a remedy at law. It
must be as efficient and as prompt in its administration as the
remedy in equity. Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 377; Walla
Walla City v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 12; Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 621; Kilbourne v. Sunderland,
130 U. S. 505, 514; Tyler v. Savage, 143 U. S. 79, 95; 2 Story's
Eq. § 928.
Where a law under which a prisoner is held has been declared unconstitutional and where the unreasonableness and
oppression of the ordinance is not apparent upon the face
thereof, evidence in such cases will be admitted by a court
of general jurisdiction upon habeas corpus showing existing
conditions and for the purpose of determining whether a
public offense has been committed. Ex parte Smith, 77 Pac.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

195 U. S.

Rep. 180; Ex parte Neilson, 131 U. S. 176; Ex parte Lang, 85
U. S. 163; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 176; In re Coy, 127 U. S.
731, 758; Ex parte Mayfield, 141 U. S. 107; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
Mr. W. B. Mathews, with whom Mr. Herbert J. Goudge was
on the brief, for defendants in error:
The enactment of the ordinance drawn in question was fully
within the police powers of the city. Constitution of California, § 11, Art. XI; Statutes of California, 1869-1870, 815;
and 1889, 458; Charter of Los Angeles, §§ 2, 25, 27, 40; Munn
v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Westfield G. & M. Co. v. Mendenhall,
142 Indiana, 538; New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana L. Co.,
115 U. S. 650; 2 Tiedeman on Police Powers, 740; Jamieson v.
Indiana Natural G. & Oil Co., 28 N. E. Rep. 76; Lanigan v.
N. Y. Gas & L. Co., 71 N. Y. 29; Ex parte Lacy, 108 California,
326; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 86.
The allegations of the complaint as to the unreasonableness
of this ordinance are not sufficient to sustain a decision against
its validity. Slack v. Jacob, 8-W. Va. 612; Harmon v. Lewiston,
46 Am. St. Rep. 893; Darnelly v. Cabanns, 52 Georgia, 212;
Wells v. Mayor, 43 Georgia, 67; State v. Schlenker, 51 L. R. A.
351; People v. Cipperly, 4 N. E. Rep. (N. Y.) 108; In re Wilshire, 103 Fed. Rep. 620; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27.
All rights in contracts and property are held subject to
such regulations as may be made from time to time by the
State for the protection of public health, comfort and saftey.
Cooley Const. Lim. 6th ed. 707; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
669; Corporationof Knoxville v. Bird, 12 B. J. Lea, 121; City
of Salem v. Maynes, 123 Massachusetts, 372; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; City of New Orleans v. Stafford, 21 Am.
Rep. 563; 2 Story Const. Lim. § 1954; Jamieson v. Ind.
Natural G. & Oil Co., 28 N. E. Rep. 76.
A municipality cannot in any manner barter away, part
with or abridge its right to exercise the police powers delegated to it by the State. Cooley Corist. Lim. 6th ed. 341;

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Russell on Police Powers, 88; Davenport v. Richmond, 81
Virginia, 636; Newson v. Galveston, 13 S. W. Rep. 368; Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 97 U. S.659.
The ordinance complained of is not violative of the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. Sherlock v. Alling, Admr., 93 U. S. 99; United States v. E. C. Knighti
156 U. S.1; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465.
The question, whether the state court erred in refusing to
consider or decide the claim of plaintiff in error that she was
entitled to an injunction against the enforcement of the ordinance complained of by criminal prosecution, does not arise
on this appeal.
The motives of a legislative body in enacting a law cannot
be inquired into by the courts. Fletcherv. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87;
Dodge v. Wolsey, 18 How. 371; United States v. Des Moines
R. R. Co., 142 U. S.545; Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.703.
In reviewing a judgment upon a petition for writ of habeas
corpus discharging the writ and remanding the petitioner, the
only question reviewable by this court is the question whether
the plaintiff in error has been denied a right in violation of the
Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States. Yick Wo
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; In re Wright, 29 Hun, 361; Ex
parte Sternes, 77 California, 156; Ex parte McCullough, 25
California, 97; Ex parte Grannis, 51 California, 375; Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U. S.678; Cooley Const. Lim. 6th ed. 425;
In re Coy, 127 U. S.732; Ex parte Lennon, 166 U. S. 548;
Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S.272; Ex parte Belt, 159 U. S.
95.
A bill in equity will not lie to restrain the enforcement of
a municipal ordinance by criminal prosecution upon the mere
ground of its alleged invalidity. In re Sawyer, 124 U. S.200;
Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S.528; Davis and Farnum Mfg. Co. v.
Los Angeles, 115 Fed. Rep. 537; S.C., 189 U. S.207; Hemsley v.
Myers, 45 Fed. Rep. 283; Wagner v. Drake, 31 Fed. Rep. 849;
Minneapolis Brewing Co. v. McGillivray, 104 Fed. Rep.
272.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

As this case was decided upon demurrer to the complaint,
the allegations thereof must be taken as true. The question
presented involves the right of the plaintiff in error to invoke
the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment against alleged
infraction of her rights by the action of the city council in
passing and enforcing the ordinances which prevent the carrying on of the business of making and selling gas to the people
of the city.
Before entering upon a consideration of the case it is essential
to examine briefly the extent to which constitutional and legislative control have been exercised by authority of the State of
California in reference to the erection and maintenance of gasworks in cities. The constitution of the State, section 19,
article XI, provides that "In any city where there are no
public works owned and controlled by the municipality for
supplying the same with water or artificial light, any individual, or any company duly incorporated for such purpose,
under and by authority of the laws of this State, shall, under
the direction of the superintendent of streets, or other officer
in control thereof, and under such general regulations as the
municipality may prescribe, for damages and indemnity for
damages, have the privilege of using the public streets and
thoroughfares thereof, and of laying down pipes and conduits
therein, and connections therewith, so far as may be necessary
for introducing into and supplying- such city and its inhabitants
either with gaslight, or other illuminating light, or with fresh
water for domestic and all other purposes, upon the condition
that the municipal government shall have the right to regulate
the charges thereof." By the act of the state legislature of
April 4, 1870, Stats. of 1869-1870, 815, it was provided that
cities may control the location and construction of works so
that they may be erected in suitable localities to give the least
discomfiture or annoyance to the public. By the constitution

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the State of California it is provided, art. XII, see. 11, that
any county, city, town or township may make and enforce
within its limits all such local, police, sanitary or other regulations as are not in conflict with the general laws. In these
provisions may be found a grant of power to the city of Los
Angeles to control the location and erection of gasworks within
the city limits. In the grant of such control the fact is recognized that while the erection and maintenance of such works
is a lawful business pursuit and one essential to the welfare
and comfort of the community, its prosecution requires the
use of materials of such a character, and such construction and
maintenance of the works as not to be dangerous or offensive
when carried on within thickly populated parts of the city,
and such rights are consequently justly subject to regulation
in such manner as to protect the public health and safety.
The Supreme Court of California, as may be gathered from its
opinion in this case, based its decision upon the proposition
that as the exercise of the right to control the location and
construction of gasworks is within the power conferred by the
legislature upon the city, the act of the municipality in question cannot be reviewed, because so to do would be a substitution of the judgment of the court for that of the council
upon a matter left within the exclusive control of the legislative
body. To support this conclusion a citation is made from the
opinion of this court in the case of Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113, to the effect that the legislature is the exclusive judge of
the propriety of police regulation when the matter is within
the scope of its power. The observations of Mr. Chief Justice Waite in that connection had reference to the facts of the
particular case and were certainly not intended to declare the
right of either the legislature or a city council to arbitrarily
deprive the citizen of rights protected by the Constitution
under the guise of exercising the police powers reserved to the
.States. It may be admitted that every intendment is to be
made in favor of the lawfulness of the exercise of municipal
power, making regulations to promote the public health and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

safety, and that it is not the province of courts, except in clear
cases, to interfere with the exercise of the power reposed by law
in municipal corporations for the protection of local rights and
the health and welfare of the people in the community. But
notwithstanding this general rule of the law, it is now thoroughly well settled by decisions of this court that municipal
by-laws and ordinances, and even legislative enactments undertaking to regulate useful business enterprises, are subject
to investigation in the courts with a view to determining
whether the law or ordinance is a lawful exercise of the police
power, or whether under the guise of enforcing police regulations there has been an unwarranted and arbitrary interference
with the constitutional rights to carry on a lawful business,
to make contracts, or to use and enjoy property. In Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137, Mr. Justice Brown, speaking for
the court, said upon this subject:
"To justify the State in thus interposing its authority in
behalf of the public, it must appear, first, that the interests
of the public generally, as distinguished from those of a particular class, require such interference; and, second, that the
means are reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of the
purpose, and not unduly oppressive upon individuals. The
legislature may not, under the guise of protecting the public
interests, arbitrarily interfere with private business or impose
unusual and unnecessary restrictions upon lawful occupations.
In other words, its determination as to what is a proper exercise
of its police powers is not final or conclusive, but is subject to
the supervision of the courts."
And, again, in Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 398, the same
justice, again speaking for the court, said:
"The question in each case is whether the legislature has
adopted the statute in exercise of a reasonable discretion, or
whether its action be a mere excuse for an unjust discrimination, or the oppression or spoliation of a particular class."
And in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558,
Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion of the court, said:

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The question of constitutional law to which we have referred [the equal protection of the laws] cannot be disposed of
by saying that the statute in question may be referred to what
are called the police powers of the State, which, as often stated
by this court, were not included in the grants of power to the
General Government, and therefore reserved to the States when
the Constitution was ordained. But as the Constitution of
the United States is the supreme law of the land, anything
in the Constitution or statutes of the States to the contrary
notwithstanding, a statute of a State, even when avowedly
enacted in the exercise of its police powers, must yield to that
law. No right granted or secured by the Constitution of the
United States -can be impaired or destroyed by a state enactment, whatever may be the source from which the power to
pass such enactment may have been derived. 'The nullity of
any act inconsistent with the Constitution is produced by the
declaration that the Constitution is the supreme law.' The
State has undoubtedly the power, by appropriate legislation,
to protect the public morals, the public health and the public
safety, but if, by their necessary operation, its regulations looking to either of those ends amount to a denial to persons within
its jurisdiction of the equal protection of the laws, they must
be deemed unconstitutional and void. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 210; Sinnot v. Davenport,22 How. 227, 243; Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Haber, 169 U. S.613, 626."
This principle was recognized and applied in the Supreme
Court of California in a case decided later than the one under
consideration. In re Smith, decided May 31, 1904, 77 Pac.
Rep. 180, in which it was held that a county ordinance making
it a misdemeanor to maititain a gasworks within a sparsely
settled district was unreasonable and void. In that case the
court, after again quoting from Munn v. Illinois, to the effect
that the courts will not interfere with laws which are within
the scope of legislative power, well said:
"But, running current with this principle, and to be read
with it, is one of equal importance, namely, that when the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

police power is exerted to regulate a useful business or occupation, the legislature is not the exclusive judge as to what is a
reasonable and just restraint upon the constitutional right of
the citizen to pursue any trade, business or vocation, which
in itself is recognized as innocent and useful to the community.
It is always a judicial question if any particular regulation of
such right is a valid exercise of police power, though the power
of the courts to declare such regulation invalid will be exercised with the utmost caution, and only where it is clear that
the ordinance or law declared void passes the limits of the
police powers, and infringes upon rights guaranteed by the constitution."
Applying the principles settled by these decisions to the
allegations of the bill, admitted by the demurrer, we think a
case is made which called for the protection of the courts against
arbitrary interference with the rights of the plaintiff in error.
Complying with the terms of the ordinance which was in force
when the plaintiff in error was about to begin the erection of
the gasworks in controversy, a tract of land was purchased
within the district wherein the erection of such works was
permitted, a contract was entered into for the construction of
the works, a considerable sum of money was expended. It
may be admitted as being a correct statement of the law as
held by the California Supreme Court that, notwithstanding
the grant of the permit, and even after the erection of the
works, the city might still, for the protection of the public
health and safety, prohibit the further maintenance and continuance of such works, and the prosecution of the business,
originally harmless, may become, by reason of the manner of
its prosecution or a changed condition of the community, a
menace to the public health and safety. In other words, the
right to exercise the police power is a continuing one, and a
business lawful to-day may in the future, because of the
changed situation, the growth of population or other causes,
become a menace to the public health and welfare, and be
required to yield to the public good. Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Park, 97 U. S. 659; New OrleansGas Co. v. LouisianaLight Co.,
115 U. S. 650, 672. But the exercise of the police power is
subject. to judicial review and property rights cannot be
wrongfully destroyed by arbitrary enactment. It was averred
that the works would be so constructed so as not to interfere
with the health or safety of the people. No reasonable explanation for the arbitrary exercise of power in the case is
suggested. The narrowing of the limits within which the
plaintiff in error, in oompliance with the ordinance of the city
and the permit of the board of fire commissioners, was proceeding to erect the gasworks, to the smaller and more limited
section, was not demanded by the public welfare, and, taking
the facts as alleged in the bill, seems rather to have been
actuated by a purpose to exclude the plaintiff in error from
further prosecution of the enterprise. The limits of the privileged district were fixed late in August. In September the
complainant began the construction of the works. In November, without changed conditions or adequate reason, the
council by an amended ordinance drew a line embracing a part
of the district including the complainant's property, and declared that, too, shall be prohibited territory. This action is
strongly corroborative of the allegations of the bill that the
purpose was not police regulation in the interest of the public
but the destruction of the plaintiff's rights and the building
up of another company still within the privileged district after
the passage of the amendment. Being the owner of the land
and having partially erected the works the plaintiff in error
had acquired property rights and was entitled to protection
against unconstitutional encroachments which would have the
effect to deprive her of her property without due process of
law. It is averred in the bill of complaint that the district
within which the works were being erected was one given over
to manufacturing enterprises, some of which were fully as
obnoxious as gasworks possibly could be; that it contained
large spaces of unoccupied lands, worthless except for manufacturing purposes, and by clear inference that there was

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

nothing in the situation which rendered it necessary, in order
to protect the city from a noisome and unhealthy business, to
decrease the area within which gasworks could lawfully be
erected.
It is urged that, where the exercise of legislative or municipal power is clearly within constitutional limits, the courts will
not inquire into the motives which may have actuated the
legislative body in passing the law or ordinance in question.
Whether, when it appears that the facts would authorize the
exercise of the power, the courts will restrain its exercise because of alleged wrongful motives inducing the passage of an
ordinance is not a question necessary to be determined in this
case, but where the facts as to the situation and conditions are
such as to establish the exercise of the police power in such
manner as to oppress or discriminate against a class or an
individual the courts may consider and give weight to such
purpose in considering the validity of the ordinance. This
court, in the case of Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, held
that although an ordinance might be lawful upon its face and
apparently fair in its terms, yet if it was enforced in such a
manner as to work a discrimination against a part of the
community for no lawful reason, such exercise of power would
be invalidated by the courts.
In some of the States, perhaps in most, the right to build
and maintain gasworks is derived from the State, but subject
to municipal control as to the use of the streets and the prices
to be charged to consumers. In Ohio this price is regulated
for stated periods. Could it be successfully maintained that
after the erection of the works and the fixing of prices for a
term of ten years, at the expiration thereof and exercising the
right to fix prices for a new term, the council could arbitrarily,
and with a view of compelling the sale of the works to the
municipality or a rival company, fix the rate at a price below
the cost of gas to the producer and at such a rate as to be
ruinous to the business? In State ex rel. The Attorney General
v. The Cincinnati Gas Light c&Coke Co., 18 Ohio St. 262, it was

DOBBINS v. LOS ANGELES.
195 U. S.

S241

Opinion of the Court.

held to be the legislative intention, in empowering city councils to regulate the price of gas, to limit such companies to fair
and reasonable prices, and if in the colorable exercise of this
power a majority of the members of the council, for i fraudulent purpose, combine to pass an ordinance fixing the price of
gas at a rate at which they well know it cannot be manufactured and sold without loss, such an ordinance would impose no obligation on the company. This case was cited with
apparent approval by Mr. Justice Matthews in delivering the
opinion of this court in Yick Wo v. Hopkins, supra, and see
Dillon Mun. Corp. 4th ed. § 311.
In this case we think the allegations of the bill disclose such
character of territory, such sudden and unexplained change of
its limits after the plaintiff in error had purchased the property
and gone forward with the erection of the works, as to bring it
within that class of cases wherein the court may restrain the
arbitrary and discriminatory exercise of the police power which
amounts to a taking of property without due process of law
and an impairment of property rights protected by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
It is also urged by the defendants in error that a court of
equity will not enjoin prosecution of a criminal case; but, as
we have seen, the plaintiff in error in this case had acquired
property rights which by the enforcement of the ordinances
in question would be destroyed and rendered worthless. If
the allegations of the bill be taken as true, she had the right
to proceed with the prosecution of the work without interference by the city authorities in the form of arrest and prosecution of those in her employ.
It is well settled that where property rights will be destroyed unlawful interference by criminal proceedings under
a void law or ordinance may be reached and controlled by
a decree of a court of equity. Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co.
v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 218, and cases therein
cited.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that the demurrer.
VOL. oxcv-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

should have been overruled and the city of Los Angeles put
upon its answer.
For the reasons herein stated, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of California is reversed and the cause remanded to
that court for further proceedings not in conflict with this
opinion.

DALY v. ELTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 108. Argued October 11,12, 1904.-Decided November 14, 1904.

Decided on authority of Dobbins v. Los Angeles, ante, p. 223.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lynn Helm and Mr. Edward C. Bailey, with whom Mr.
Henry T. Lee, Mr. J. R. Scott and Mr. Charles W. Chase were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. B. Mathews, with whom Mr. Herbert J. Goudge was
on the brief, for defendant in error.1
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is practically determined by views expressed in
Dobbins v. The City of Los Angeles, just decided. It was a
petition for a writ of habeas corpus to discharge Daly from
custody, in a prosecution under the ordinance under consideration in the Dobbins case. The prayer of the petition was
denied and the writ discharged. In re Daly, 139 California,
1 This

case was argued simultaneously with the preceding case and for

abstracts of arguments, see ante, p. 226.

