STEVENSON v. FAIN.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

that date we have used the same article. We have used sopie
palm oil. We used that for a few days only until the Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled that its use would subject the product to the ten cent tax."
The verdict of a jury is conclusive upon a question of fact
unless plainly against the evidence. The same weight, as we
have said, must be given to the finding of a court, and upon
the testimony received without objection a finding that this
palm oil served substantially only to color the product cannot
be disturbed. Indeed the fact was made certain by the testimony offered by the defendant, although that testimony was
afterwards stricken out by the court as immaterial.
We see no error in the record, and the judgment is
Affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

PECKHAM

and MR.

JUSTICE

dissented.

STEVENSON v. FAIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 8. Argued October 18,19, 1904.-Decided November 7,1904.

The Circuit Courts do not possess original jurisdiction over controversies
between citizens of different States claiming lands under grants of different States by reason of the subject matter, and the decree of a Circuit
Court of Appeals in such a case is final and an appeal to this court does
not lie.

THIS was a bill filed by Stevenson and others, citizens and

residents of New York and Rhode Island, against Fain and
others, citizens and residents of North Carolina and Georgia,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Tennessee, to remove a cloud upon the title to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

body of wild lands lying adjacent to the boundary between
Tennessee and North Carolina.
Complainants claimed title under grants from the State of
Tennessee, and alleged that the lands lay wholly in Monroe
County, Tennessee. Defendants alleged that the lands lay
wholly within the county of Cherokee, in the State of North
Carolina, and that they were lawfully granted to their ancestor by that State.
The issue involved the true boundary line between North
Carolina and Tennessee. The Circuit Court held that the
lands lay in the State of North Carolina, and that the title
was in defendants, and dismissed the bill.
Thereupon an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and, on hearing, the decree of the
Circuit Court was affirmed. 116 Fed. Rep. 147.
From the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals this appeal
was prosecuted.
Mr. T. S. Webb, with whom Mr. CharlesSeymour, Mr. Hu.
L. McClung and Mr. L. M. G. Baker were on the brief, for
appellants.
Submitted by Mr. Samuel G. Shields and Mr. John W. Green
for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was dependent entirely on diversity of citizenship, the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was final, and this appeal cannot be maintained. The contention of appellants is that it was not so
dependent because jurisdiction also existed in that the parties
claimed under grants from different States, to which it is
replied that under the Constitution and laws the Circuit Courts
are not vested with jurisdiction on that ground except when
the parties are citizens of the same State.
By section 1 of article III of the Constitution it is provided

STEVENSON v. FAIN.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that: "The judicial power of the United States shall be vested
in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish." And by
section 2 that: "The judicial power shall extend to all cases,
in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws
of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be
made, under their authority; to all cases affecting aimbassadors,
other public ministers and consuls; to all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United
States shall be a party; to controversies between two or more
States; between a State and citizens of another State; between
citizens of different States, between citizens of the same State
claiming lands under grants of different States, and between
a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign States, citizens or
subjects. In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall be party,
the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction. In all the
other caseg before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have
appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress shall
make."
The Supreme Court alone "possesses jurisdiction derived
immediately from the Constitution, and of which the legislative power cannot deprive it," United States v. Hudson, 7
Cranch, 32, but the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts depends
upon some act of Congress. Turner v. Bank, 4 Dall. 8, 10;
McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504, 506.
The use of the word "controversies" as in contradistinction
to the word "cases," and the omission of the word "all" in
respect of controversies, left it to Congress to define the controversies over which the courts it was empowered to ordain
and establish might exercise jurisdiction, and the manner in
which it was to be done.
By the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of September 24,
1789, it was provided that the Circuit Courts of the United
States should "have original cognizande, concurrent with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature at
common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars,
and the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners; or an alien
is a party, or the suit is between a citizen of a State where the
suit is brought and a citizen of another State."
In Bank v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61, 85, Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall said:
"The judicial power of the United States, as defined in the
Constitution, is dependent, 1st, On the nature of the case;
and 2d, On the character of the parties. By the judicial act,
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is extended to cases where
the constitutional right to plead and be impleaded, in the
courts of the Union, depends on the character of the parties;
but where that right depends on the nature of the case, the
Circuit Courts derive no jurisdiction from that act, except in
the single case of a controversy between citizens of the same
State, claiming lands under grants from different States."
And that jurisdiction was conferred by the twelfth section
of the act, which provided that "if in any action commenced
in a State court, the title of land is concerned, and the parties
are citizens of the same State," either party might remove the
cause to the Circuit Court on the fact being made to appear
that the parties claimed under grants of different States.
This section was carried forward as section 647 of the Revised
Statutes and reappears in substance in section 3 of the act of
March 3, 1875. 18 Stat. 470, c. 137.
By the first section of the latter act original jurisdiction was
given to the Circuit Courts of cases, among others, "arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties," or in which there was "a controversy between citizens
of the same State claiming lands under grants of different
States."
The acts of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, and of
August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, are to the same purport.
Two cases arising under the Judiciary Act of 1789 are cited,

STEVENSON v. FAIN.
195 U. S.

1169

Opinion of the Court.

Town of Pawlet v. Clark et al., 9 Cranch, 292, decided March 10,
1815, and Colson et al. v. Lewis, 2 Wheat. 377, decided March 14,
1817.
In Pawlet v. Clark, it appeared that the parties were citizens
of Vermont and that the cases were pending in the Circuit
Court of the District of Vermont, but the reporter's statement
does not show that the case was commenced in the state court.
The record on file in this court, however, discloses that such
was the fact, and that the cause was removed into the Circuit
Court under the twelfth section.
Colson et al. v. Lewis is not well reported. It was a bill in
equity in which Lewis and others were complainants and
Rawleigh Colson was the sole defendant. It came here on
certificate, and the title was Lewis and others against Colson,
and not as given in the ,report. The case stated shows that
the case was removed from the state court into the Circuit
Court of Kentucky, and that the complainants were citizens
of Virginia, but the citizenship of defendant was not disclosed.
The headnote asserts that the parties were citizens of Kentucky. But the certificate of the clerk, as appears from our
files, sets forth "that it is stated in the bill that the defendant
Rawleigh Colson is a citizen of the State of Virginia."
In both cases the parties were citizens of the same State
and the cases were originally commenced in the state courts,
and the Circuit Courts acquired jurisdiction by removal. The
Judiciary Act of 1789 vested the Circuit Courts with original
jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of citizenship, but not
where title was claimed under grants of different States.
Congress manifestly accepted the letter of the Constitution
and as the judicial power extended to controversies where
citizens of the same State claimed title under grants of different States, assumed that cases presenting such controversies
would be commenced in the state courts, and provided that
those cases might be removed when that fact was made to
appear. The particular constitutional provision was treated
as not open to a construction which would make it embrace

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

citizens of different States. Naturally enough, as the reason
for the extension of the Federal judicial power to controversies
between citizens of different States, and to controversies between citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants
of different States, was in substance the same. 2 Story Const.
ยง 1696.
And when the act of 1875 enlarged the original jurisdiction,
no view to the contrary was indicated.
Ayres v. Polsdorfer, 187 U. S. 585, was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit Court by citizens of one State
against those of another, and the case, having gone to judgment, was carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the
judgment affirmed. A writ of error from this court was then
sought to be sustained because, as was contended, the evidence disclosed, though the pleading did not, that the parties
claimed under grants of different States. But we held that if
the emergence of such a question might have justified taking
the case directly to this court, having gone to the Court of
Appeals, it could not after judgment then be brought here.
As Congress has not conferred jurisdiction on the Circuit
Courts over controversies between citizens of different States
because, apart from diversity of citizenship, they may have
claimed title by grants from different States, even if it had
power to do so, which is not conceded, the result is that the
appeal must be
Dismissed.

