OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

195 U. S.

dissenting.

The judgment of the Circuit Court in this case rests mainly
upon the same grounds as the judgment in cases Nos. 89 and
199. For the reasons stated in my opinion in those cases, I
dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case.

Ex parte THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE. UNITED STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST
VIRGINIA.
No. 13, Original.

Argued November 28,1904.-Decided December 12, 1901.

Nothing in the decree of this court in Colombia v. Cauca Co., 190 U. S. 524,
prohibits the Circuit Court from allowing interest on the amount of the
items allowed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William G. Johnson for the Republic of Colombia,
petitioner.
Mr. John W. Beaumont, with whom Mr. Hugh L. Bond, Jr.,
and Mr. J. Walter Lord were on the brief, for the Cauca CornpLny, respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit

Court, ordering it to correct its decree entered in pursuance
of the decision in Colombia v. Cauca Company, 190 U. S. 524.

.Ex 2 arte REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The decree appealed from in that case confirmed an award
against the Republic of Colombia after rejecting certain items,
and ordered interest to be paid on the remainder from January 26, 1898, the date fixed for payment by the award. In
this court other items of the award were disallowed and a
decree was made reversing the decree below and remanding
the case, "with directions to enter a decree confirming the
award for and up to the sum of $193,204.02." The Circuit
Court thereupon entered a decree for that sum, with interest
from the above mentioned date. The giving of interest is
the error alleged, and it is contended that by the proper construction of the decree of this court interest should not have
been allowed.
Of course, the only question open in this proceeding is,
whether the decree of this court prohibits the allowance of
interest. Re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247. As to
that it is to be noticed that nothing is said upon the subject
either in the decree or in the discussion of the case. In the
opinion, however, the items were treated as separate matters;
"some of which," it was said, "may be disallowed without
affecting the rest." The only ground suggested for reversal
was the inclusion of the separable items. By confirming the
award as to the others this court in effect declared that they
should have been paid in gold coin of the United States of
America, in the city of New York, on January 26, 1898, in
accordance with the terms of the award. To that extent the
decree below stood approved, and as no disapproval was expressed of the consequence attached by that decree to the
failure to pay, it is impossible to say that there was any implied prohibition of again attaching the same consequence
in the new decree. "The mandate and the opinion, taken
together, although they used the word 'reversed,' amount to
a reversal only in respect of the accounting, and to a modification of the decree in respect of the accounting, and to an
affirmance of it in all other respects." Gaines v. Rugg, 148
U. S. 228, 238. This language is sufficiently applicable to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

195 U. S.

instructive, although not absolutely in point. See also Kneeland v. American Loan & Trust Co., 138 U. S. 509.
It may not be improper to add that when the Republic of
Colombia made its voluntary submission to arbitration it
agreed that, if the award was against it, in excess of a sum
paid in advance, the Government should "pay the excess at
such time, in such manner, and on such terms as may be determined by the Commission." Art. 10. See Art. 9. This
language authorized the allowance of interest, and the first
draft of the award gave interest at six per cent in case of failure
to pay at the time fixed, allowing, on the other hand, a discount of five per cent for cash. Both of these provisions were
omitted from the final award, which stopped with fixing the
time. But when the Republic submitted itself to the courts
it must be taken to have done so on the same terms as other
litigants, so far as fixing the amount which it was to pay was
concerned, that being the matter on which the action of the
courts was invoked, it seems to us that it was competent for
the Circuit Court to decree the payment of interest as in an
ordinary case.
Rule discharged. Petition denied.

BULLIS v. O'BEIRNE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 60. Argued November, 10, 11, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.

On writ of error to a state court reviewing its refusal to cancel a judgment
after discharge of the debtor in bankruptcy on the ground that the judgment was in an action for fraud, the Federal question is not whether the
complaint sufficiently charged fraud to warrant the judgment but whether
the action was for fraud; and if there are facts charged and found to the
effect that false and fraudulent representations were made and relied on
which in the state court were sufficient to warrant relief on the ground
of fraud the judgment comes within the exception of ยง 17 of the bank-

