OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

195 U. S.

mutation entry there had been no fraud or lack of good faith,
and the only defect was in the matter of time, we do not think
the confirmation authorized by the act of 1896 is destroyed
by anything like that shown to have been done by Jacobus
in his effort to protect the title he had conveyed to McCord
and McLeod. In other words, if the commutation entry was
rightful save for the fact that it was premature, the act of
1896 does away with that objection and confirms the entry,
and the right to that confirmation is not destroyed by that
which the entryman may have done in a subsequent effort
to protect his title.
We see no error in the proceedings, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

CRAMER v. WILSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 47. Submitted November 3, 1904.-Decided December 5, 1904.

Where the trustee in bankruptcy sells the interest of the bankrupt in land,
the purchaser acquires only the interest of the bankrupt on the day of
adjudication and no interest therein subsequently acquired by him in the
property passes by the trustee's deed.
The fact that after the sale and before the subsequent acquirement of
interest the bankrupt made an unsuccessful application to have the sale
set aside for inadequacy of price is not an adjudication that the bankrupt had an interest in the property sold which passed to the purchaser.
Whether a deed given by a bankrupt a year prior to the adjudication is
fraudulent, or whether it was absolute or merely by way of mortgage,
leaving him an equity of redemption, are not Federal questions and the
decision of the state court is conclusive and cannot be reviewed by this
court.

THIS was a bill originally filed February 1, 1888, in the
Superior Court of Cook County by the plaintiff in error, Cramer,

CRAMER v. WILSON.
195 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

under her then name of Fannie N. Dresser, against her sister,
Lilly B. Dresser, Henry H. Gage, Julia Wilson and two others,
for the partition of certain real estate in Chicago, for a settlement of equities or liens thereon, for a receiver and for the
removal of certain clouds upon complainant's title.
The material facts of the case are as follows: Shortly before
the beginning of this suit Fannie N. Dresser was the record
owner of the property in question through a patent from the
United States. On January 31, 1888, the day before this
suit was commenced, Fannie N. Dresser conveyed to her
sister, Lilly B. Dresser, an undivided one-third of the property"
in question. The court found this deed to have been collusive,
and executed by an arrangement with the defendant Gage,
who held certain tax deeds to the premises found to be invalid, and for the purpose of filing this bill for partition, and
the removal of a cloud upon the title caused by another tax
deed acquired by Frederick R. Wilson in 1864. His interest
in the property was conveyed by him to his sister, Julia Wilson,
in 1877. Julia Wilson was made defendant to the bill as the
owner of this tax title.
It appeared, however, that Julia Wilson died on December 15, 1887, leaving Frederick R. Wilson her sole legatee and
executor. The suit was then abated as to Julia Wilson, and
Frederick R. Wilson was substituted as defendant in her place.
The deed to this property from Frederick R. Wilson to his sister
was a conditional conveyance, but by agreement of the parties
it was subsequently treated by them as absolute; and upon
the death of Julia Wilson, in December, 1887, the property
again became vested in Frederick R. Wilson as her only heir
at law and next of kin, and as her sole devisee under her last
will and testament. Shortly after the deed to Julia, Frederick
R. Wilson went into bankruptcy, Augu.st 30, 1878, and Robert
E. Jenkins was appointed his assignee. The property was
subsequently ordered to be sold, and in 1889 was purchased
from the assignee bjr one Taylor E. Snow for the sum of $250.
Both Jenkins, the assignee, and Snow, the purchaser, were

OCTOBER TERM, 190.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

195 i. S.

made parties defendants to the bill, and subsequently filed
answers and a cross bill.
It appeared that Gage, after the beginning of the suit,
bought the interest of Lilly B. Dresser, and also that the
purchase by Snow at the bankruptcy sale was made in his
interest, so that the real parties to this litigation are Gage
upon one side and Wilson upon the other.
Upon the first hearing, the court entered a decree of partition denying Wilson's claim of title, and holding that his interest passed to Snow by the assignee's sale. This decree
was reversed by the Supreme Court of Illinois upon the ground
that the plaintiff had not proved her title from the Government to the property. Leave was given the parties to amend,
and subsequently an amended bill was filed and answered.
Upon the second hearing, the court held that the premises
were the property of Frederick R. Wilson, and had been his
from 1864 until 1877, when he conveyed them to his sister;
that at the time of bankruptcy proceedings, in 1878, the title
was in Julia Wilson, and that upon the death of Julia Wilson
in 1887 the title again vested in Frederick R. Wilson; that at
the time Frederick R. Wilson was adjudged a bankrupt Julia
Wilson was alive and vested with the title to this property,
and that the defendant Snow acquired no title when he purchased all of the estate, real and personal, of the bankrupt,
Frederick R. Wilson.
This decree was affirmed by the Illinois Supreme Court,
202 Illinois, 83, and it is to reverse that decree that plaintiffs
have taken a writ of error from this court.
Mr. Frederick W. Becker, Mr. Robert A. Childs and Mr.
Charles Hudson for plaintiffs in error:
The points involved. in this case are Federal questions.
Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529; Central Nat. Bk. v. Stevens,
169 U. S. 432, 460; Dushane v. Beall, 161 U. S. 513; N. 0.,
S. F. & L. R. R. Co. v. Delamore, 114 U. S. 501; Chapman v.
Goodnaw, 123 U. S. 540.

CRAMER v. WILSON.
195 U. S.

411

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error

The deed to Julia Wilson was fraudulent and void as against
creditors, because absolute in form but conditional in fact,
creating a secret trust. Lukins v. Aird, 6 Wall. 78; Beidler
v. Crane, 135 Illinois, 92, 98; Bostwick v. .Blake, 145 Illinois,
85, 89; Metropolitan Bank v. Godfrey, 23 Illinois, 579; because
colorable; and because voluntary and made while the grantor
was insolvent or contemplating insolvency. Dillman v.
Nadelhoffer, 162 Illinois, 625.
Such a deed is void not only as to existing but also as to
subsequent creditors. Bostwick v. Blake, supra; Gordon v.
Reynolds, 114 Illinois, 118, 127. Hence no right or title passed
to the sister by virtue of that deed as against creditors, but
upon Wilson's bankruptcy all his original right and title passed
to his assignee in bankruptcy.
The Bankrupt Act of 1867 vested in the assignee all property of the bankrupt conveyed in fraud of creditors. Rev.
Stat. § 5046; Holbrook v. Coney, 25 Illinois, 543, 547; Foraast
v. Hyman, 138 Illinois, 423; no judicial determination of that
fact was necessary to pass title. Freeland v. Freeland, 102
Massachusetts, 475.
As to nature of title of assignee in bankruptcy, see Bouton
v. Dement, 123 Illinois, 142; Choteau v. Jones, 11 Illinois, 300;
Hardin v. Osborne, 94 Illinois, 571. That this asset was not
scheduled is immaterial. Holbrook v. Coney, 25 Illinois, 543.
Two years' limitation as to suits in bankruptcy has no application to sales, Holbrook v. Brenner, 31 Illinois, 501; and if
it has, it would only commence to run from the discovery of
the fraud. Beatty v. Nickerson, 73 Illinois, 605; Dushane v.
Beall, 161 U. S. 513. Election to take by assignee, if necessary, shown by sale. McKinny v. Farmers' Nat. Bk., 104
Illinois, 130; Freeland v. Freeland, 102 Massachusetts, 475.
All these questions are res adjudicataby the denial of Wilson's
application to set aside sale, and he is estopped from raising
them now, Bennitt v. Star Mfg. Co., 119 Illinois, 9; not only
as against the parties thereto, but as against all whose interests are involved. Barney v. Patterson, 6 H. & J. 182, 203;

OCTOBER TERM,

1904.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

195 U. S.

Tyler v. Tyler, 126 Illinois, 525; Jamieson v. Beaubien, 3 Scam.
113; Rogers v. Bent, 5 Gil. 573; Kirkpatrick v. Clark, 132
Illinois, 342.
Whether the assignee lost his title by laches is immaterial;
it is enough that he acquired title, though but for a day, to
interrupt the continuity of Wilson's possession. C. & A.
R. R. Co. v. Keegan, 185 Illinois, 70.
The bankruptcy proceedings had the effect on Wilson's adverse possession of a voluntary conveyance, which breaks the
continuity, even if the actual possession be not disturbed.
Gower v. Quinland, 40 Michigan, 572; Root v. Woolworth, 150
U. S. 401; Hintrager v. Smith, 89 Iowa, 270; Oberein v. Wells,
163 Illinois, 101.
The deed to Julia Wilson being unrecorded was not notice,
Ill. Rev. Stat., ch. 30, § 30; nor was Wilson's possession of
the premises after the conveyance. 23 Am. & Eng. Ency. of
Law, 2d ed., 506; Robertson v. Wheeler, 162 Illinois, 566,
575.
Property fraudulently conveyed clothes the grantee with
no ownership as against the creditors of the grantor. 1 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 813 n.; Jones v. Wilson, 69
Alabama, 400; Townsend v. Little, 109 U. S. 504.
Julia Wilson participated in the fraud, 14 Am. & Eng. Ency.
of Law, 2d ed., 271, and is not a bona fide purchaser. Met.
Bk. v. Godfrey, 23 Illinois, 579; Powell v. Jeffries, 4 Scam. 387.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois ignores the
real character of the deed to Julia Wilson, and the effect of
the bankruptcy proceedings and the Bankrupt Act upon a
conveyance in fraud of creditors. The fraudulent features of
the deed could not be eliminated by the alleged subsequent
agreement.
The suggestion of collusion is ill timed and inconsistent.
The motive in instituting the suit is immaterial. Trainor v.
Greenough, 145 Illinois, 543, 549. The following statutes of
Illinois are applicable. Rev. Stat., Ch. 106, §§ 1, 6, 39; ch. 59,
§§4, 5;ch. 30, §30; ch. 83, §1.

CRAMER v. WILSON.
195 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. David K. Tone and Mr. George Gillett for defendant in
error:
No Federal question is involved. The state court found
that Julia Wilson was the owner of the premises in controversy on August 30, 1878, when this petition in bankruptcy
was filed, and that the purchaser took nothing at the assignee's sale. On a writ of error to a state court the findings
of fact of the state court are conclusive in this court. Egan
v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Bement v. National Harrow Co., 186
U. S. 70, 83. A decision of a state court against a party
who claims that the title to his demand comes through a
bankrupt assignee cannot be reviewed by this court when
no construction of such bankrupt act was called in question.
Calcote v. Stanton, 18 How. 243; Scott v. Kelly, 22 Wall. 57;
McKenna v. Simpson, 129 U. S. 506.
The case should be affirmed on the merits.
The court should refuse to take jurisdiction of a collusive
suit prosecuted by a party who has no interest in the controversy as is the case with plaintiff in error. In re Burdick,
162 Illinois, 48, 52, 64; Cleveland v. Chamberlain, 1 Black, 419;
American Wood-Paper v. Heft, 131 U. S. 92; Dakota Co. v.
Glidden, 113 U. S. 222; The People v. Gen'l Elec. Ry. Co., 172
Illinois, 129, 143.
That Wilson actually conveyed to his sister is res judicata
by the final state court judgment. Wilson v. Dresser, 152
Illinois, 387; Smith v. Neff, 123 Illinois, 310;'West v. Douglass,
145 Illinois, 164; McFarland v. Washburn, 26 Ill. App. 355;
World's Columbian Exposition v. Lehigh, 94 Ill. App. 433;
Newberry v. Blatchford, 106 Illinois, 593.
The denial by the District Court of the petition of Wilson
to set aside the sale is not res adjudicata in reference to Wilson's title, as his present title is based upon a subsequent
devise. Julia Wilson was not a party to the bankruptcy
proceeding, and hence not bound by it. Attorney General v.
C. & E. R. R. Co., 112 Illinois, 520, 539; McCartney v. Osburn,,
118 Illinois, 403, 410; White v. Sherman, 168 Illinois, 589, 612.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

Plaintiffs in error were not creditors of Frederick R. Wilson,
and hence cannot raise the question, as a fraudulent conveyance can only be assailed by bona fide creditors of the grantor.
As to third persons, who do not stand in the position of creditors of the grantor, such a conveyance is valid. Fetrow v.
Merriwether, 53 Illinois, 275, 279; Willard v. Masterson, 160
Illinois, 443; Rappleye v. International Bank, 93 Illinois, 397,
403; 14 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 280c.; Etter v. Anderson,
84 Indiana, 333, 337.
MR. JUsTIcE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the first hearing, the Superior Court entered a decree
of partition, finding that the Dresser sisters were the owners
of the property at the beginning of the suit, through a title
derived from the Government; that after the suit was begun
Lilly B. Dresser conveyed her interest to Henry H. Gage; that
Julia Wilson, to whom her brother, Frederick R. Wilson, had
conveyed his interest in the property, died testate, leaving
her interest in the property to Frederick R. Wilson, and that
this interest subsequently passed to Snow by purchase from
the assignee, Jenkins.
This decree was reversed by the Supreme Court, 152 Illinois,
387, which held that there was no evidence of a title in fee in
complainants derived from the Government; that, although
Frederick R. Wilson showed a deed to himself from the city
of Chicago, dated May 24, 1864, and possession under such
deed, he conveyed his interest to his sister, Julia Wilson, in
1877; that about a year thereafter he went into bankruptcy,
and that at the assignee's sale nothing passed to the purchaser, Snow, but the interest of the bankrupt on August 30,
1878. "But," said the court, "the evidence shows that at
that time he had no interest, having more than a year prior
to that date, July 6, 1877, conveyed it to Julia Wilson, and
the evidence is undisputed as to the fact that she took pos-

CRAMER v. WILSON.
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

session under that deed, and retained it by her tenants until
the date of her death, and that her tenants remained in such
possession when this suit was begun." The court found that
there was nothing to show that Julia Wilson had not died
seized of the property, and that it was not until her death Ih
1887 that defendant became repossessed of it. The case was
reversed, and remanded with leave to amend the pleadings
and put in additional testimony.
Upon a rehearing in the Superior Court, a, decree was entered in favor of the defendant Wilson, establishing his title
to the premises, subject to the repayment of certain taxes
paid by Gage. Upon the second appeal to the Suprerhe Court
that court held that, it having been shown that defendant and
his sister had been in possession of the property for more than
twenty years prior to the bringing of that suit, defendant had
a good title by limitation, unless it was cut off and defeated
by the assignee's sale to Snow; but that as he had sold to his
sister, Julia Wilson, in July, 1877, thirteen months before the
bankruptcy, and she had taken possession, he had no title,
and none passed to Snow by purchase from the assignee.
Complainants, however, took the position that the deed
from Wilson to his sister was not absolute, but was made to
secure a debt, and was constructively a mortgage, and that
an equity of redemption remained in Frederick R. Wilson,
which would pass to Snow as purchaser at the time of the
assignee's sale. But the court held that, under the arrangement between the parties, the deed became absolute long before the defendant was adjudged a bankrupt. That under
the law of Illinois, when land has been conveyed by deed,
absolute in form, though intended as security for the payment of a debt, the payment of the debt may be abandoned,
and the deed treated as an absolute conveyance, although
originally intended as a mortgage, and that such arrangement
may be made by parol, and be binding. 202 Illinois, 83.
It thus appears that the case turned upon the validity of
the deed from the appellee to his sister, Julia Wilson. It was

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

insisted that the deed was either fraudulent and void as against
creditors, or that a residuary interest remained in Frederick R.
Wilson, which would pass under the assignee's sale. This was
a local and not a Federal question. The deed, having been
made a year before the proceedings in bankruptcy were begun,
and eleven years before the ommencement of this suit, was
not attacked as invalid under the bankrupt law of 1867, then
in force, but as a fraudulent conveyance under the state law.
The question of fraud was ignored by the state court, although
it was directly involved in the issue, and hence must be treated
as overruled. It was admitted that, if the property were that
of Julia Wilson at the commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings, nothing passed under the assignee's sale; and it was
only upon the theory that it was the property of the bankrupt that the assignee could convey anything to the purchaser. To reverse the state court upon this point would be
to hold that it improperly construed its own laws with reference to fraudulent conveyances. The assignee's sale as a
conveyance of the property of the bankrupt was not attacked
in any way. He was a mere conduit through which the interest of Frederick R. Wilson, if be had any for himself or his
creditors, passed to Snow. We have repeatedly held that,
when the question in a state court is not whether, if the bankrupt had title, it would pass to his assignee, but whether he
had title at all, and the state court decided that he had not,
no Federal question is presented. Scott v. Kelly, 22 Wall. 57;
McKenna v. Simpson, 129 U. S. 506. The same principle was
applied to a different class of cases in Blackburn v. Portland
Gold Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571; De Lamar's Co. v. Nesbitt, 177
U. S. 523. In Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529, relied upon
by the plaintiffs in error, the property in dispute belonged admittedly to the bankrupts, and the question was whether it
was of such a character as to pass to their assignee. Of course,
.this involved a construction of the bankrupt act.
If there be any Federal question, it arises from the denial
of the petition of the appellee, filed in the bankruptcy court

CRAMER v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

September 17, 1889, about two months after the sale was confirmed, to set aside and vacate such sale for inadequacy of price
and want of notice that the sale would take place. It is insisted that this denial was res judicata of Wilson's interest in
the property, and that the refusal of the court to so treat it
denied to the order of the bankrtptcy court the full faith and
credit to which it was entitled. But on referring to the order
of sale of June 27, 1889, we find that the assignee was directed
to sell simply "the interest of such bankrupt and of said
asssignee," without attempting to adjudicate-what that interest was, or whether he had any interest at all. It was left for
other courts in other proceedings to determine what his interest or that of his creditors was on August 30, 1878, the day
on which he was adjudged a bankrupt. That interest would,
of course, pass to the assignee. We have already seen that
the Supreme Court found he had none upon that day. The
District Court authorized the sale of such as he had, but made
no attempt to determine or guarantee that he had an interest
that would pass by the sale. The refusal to set aside the sale
was largely a matter of discretion, and may have been justified
by the consideration that the bankrupt was not injured by the
fact that it had taken place. There was certainly no attempt
to adjudicate the amount of his interest.
The circumstance that nine years after .his adjudication
in bankruptcy he took title to the property as the devisee of
his sister does not lend any significance to the fact that at the
date of his bankruptcy his sister was the owner, in possession
by tenants, and that the Supreme Court found her title to be
absolute.
The decree of that court is,, therefore,
Affirmed.

VOL.

CxCv-27

