OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for petitioner.

195 U. S.

quarter of a century, neither changed by any judicial decisions
or set aside by any Congressional legislatiofi, it ought not to
be disturbed except for the most cogent reasons.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 90. Argued October 19, 20, 1904.-Decided December 12, 1904.
Wester
Union Tel. Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. et al, ante, p. 540
followed to effect that the act of July 24, 1866, 14 Stat. 221, does not
confer any right of eminent domain on telegraph companies and that a
railroad company's right of way is not a public highway within the meaning of that act.
Eminent domain cannot be delegated, and the lessee of a corporation cannot
exercise the power of condemnation conferred by legislature on the lessor.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr. Rush Taggart and Mr. Henry D.
Estabrook for plaintiff in error as to the special points involved
in No. 90.'
The Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company was authorized
by its charter to appropriate to its use, within specified limitations, property of a specific character, to wit, the roads, highways, streets and waters of the State of Pennsylvania. Defendant's railroad is not only a highway of the State in its
very nature, but by its charter and the constitution of Pennsylvania is expressly declared to be a highway. Hence, it is
subject to the appropriation of the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company, within the limitations of the right granted.
§ 1, art. 17; §§ 3, 12, art. 16, constitution Pennsylvania;
el. 1, §33, and cl. 2, ch. 6, act of Pennsylvania legislature,
April 29, 1874; Trunnick v. Smith, 63 Pa. St. 18.
1For abstract of argument on other questions involved in this case, see
ante, p. 547.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. CO. 595
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As lessee of the franchises of the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company, the Western Union Telegraph Company has
the right in its own name to exercise such franchises, including the franchise of eminent domain.
This was practically conceded by the trial judge, who
held, however, that the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company was not authorized under its charter to appropriate to
its use a railroad right of way, even within the limitations
imposed-to wit, that the use should not interfere with the
common use of such highway, or incommode the public use
thereof.
Not only would the Western Union Telegraph Company
have the right to condemn in its own name, under the express
terms of the Atlantic and Ohio charter already quoted, but it
would have the right under the general principles and policy
of law, which justifies the condemnation only upon the theory
that the property when condemned is for the use of the public,
by whomsoever condemned, and that the delectus personarum
is of little more than theoretical importance, and is the least
determining element in the more common cases where the
power is conferred. Abbott v. N. Y. & New England R. R.
Co. (Mass.), 15 N. E. Rep. 91; Cal. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Hooper,
76 California, 404; Crolley v. Minn. & St. Louis R. R. Co., 30
Minnesota, 541; C. & W. I. R. R. Co. v. I. C. R. R. Co., 113
Illinois, 156; Kip v. N. Y. & Harlem R. R. Co., 6 Hun, 24;
S. C., 67 N. Y. 227.
Mr. John G. Johnson for defendant in error.'
MR. JusTIoC

McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petition on the law side of the Circuit Court for
the Western District of Pennsylvania to condemn part of the
defendant's right of way and appropriate it to telegraph purposes. There was also a bill on the equity side praying for
an injunction to restrain defendant in error from dispossessing
IFor abstract of argument in this case, see ante., p. 555.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

plaintiff in error during the pending of the condemnation proceedings.
The Circuit Court refused to approve the bond tendered
with the petition for condemnation and ordered the petition
dismissed. 120 Fed. Rep. 362. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed that action. 123 Fed. Rep. 33.
The bill in equity, though not before us technically, has
been freely referred to in argument, and, besides, many of
the allegations of the petition are the same as those in the
bill and appeal passed on in Nos. 89 and 199. The same rights
are asserted under the act of July 24, 1866, as there considered.
The contention here, as there, is that the Telegraph Company
has the right to maintain its lines of telegraph over and along
the railroads of the Railroad Company upon making compensation to the Railroad Company for the use so appropriated, so'
long as the maintenance of its telegraph lines does not materially interfere with the ordinary travel of such roads, and
that the, right can be asserted by proceedings in 'eminent domain. It is conceded that there is no general law of Pennsylvania giving that right to the Telegraph Company. The
contention that such right is given by the act of 1866 we
considered in Nos. 89 and 199, and decided against the contention. But there are other elements in this case. The
Telegraph Company is the lessee of the Atlantic and Ohio
Telegraph Company (the lease is terminable at the option of
either party by giving six months' notice) and claims eminent
domain as successor of that company. The claim rests upon
the statute of Pennsylvania incorporating the Atlantic and
Ohio Telegraph Company. That statute was passed in 1849,
and provided, in section five, that it should be lawful for the
company "to erect and construct works, edifices, fixtures and
structures along and across any of the roads, highways, streets
and waters within this State; the said works to be so placed as
not to interfere with the common use of such roads, highways,
streets and waters." The company was authorized to enter
into and occupy any land for the purposes of locating and

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. CO.
195 U. S.

597

Opinion of the Court.

constructing its lines upon securing or tendering such compensation as might be agreed on between it and the owners
of the land, or in the manner mentioned in the statute. The
Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals rejected the
claim of the Telegraph Company based on that act. The decision was rested on two grounds: (1) That railroads were not
highways within the meaning of the statute; and (2) as expressed in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals: "No
authority to enter upon the right of way of railroads was
plainly and distinctly granted, and it is well settled that the
right of eminent domain may be exercised by a corporation,
in any case, only when granted in express terms or by necessary implication, and that property held and applied by
one corporation for a public use cannot be appropriated by
another for its use without authority clearly expressed,. or
which may be implied from the fact (which in this case does
not exist) that the use claimed is absolutely necessary to the
accomplishment of the purpose for which the claimant corporation was created. Penna. R. R. Co.'s App., 93 Pa. St.
150; Pittsburg Junction R. R. Co.'s App., 122 Pa. St. 511;
Sharon Ry. Co.'s App., 122 Pa. St. 533; Groff's App., 128 Pa.
St. 621; Perry Co. R. R. v. N. & S. V. R. R. Co., 150 Pa.
St. 193; Phillips v. D., W. & P. R. R. Co., 78 Pa. St. 177;
Glover v. Bositon, 14 Gray, 282."
(1) In the opinion in Nos. 89 and 199 we marked a distinction between highways and railroads against a contention
which identified them in legal meaning and effect. We need
not enlarge upon what we there said. Highways and railroads may be assimilated in legal contemplation to a certain
extent, and considerations which apply to one within that extent apply to the other. To apply them beyond that extent
would be to confound the distinctions of common speech and
practice and destroy property rights long recognized to exist.
And we do not deem it necessary to follow and answer in detail the very able arguments of counsel. It is enough to say
that they have carried the analogies between ordinary high-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

ways and railroads too far; indeed, have gone beyond analogy,
and have contended for almost legal coincidence in attributes
and effect.
(2) But there is another rule applicable to grants of eminent
domain which is also fatal to the contention of the Telegraph
Company for the rights claimed by the Telegraph Company under the lease from the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company.
Eminent domain cannot be delegated. Lessees cannot exercise it. 1 Lewis Eminent Domain, section 243, and cases cited.
It is to meet this prohibition probably that certain allegations
of the petition are made. It is alleged that the Atlantic and
Ohio Telegraph Company entered into a "contract to lease"
with the Telegraph Company the first of April, 1864; that afterwards the former company made an agreement with the Railroad Company whereby the latter company granted to the
said Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company permission to construct and maintain a line of telegraph wires "along and adjacent to the line of railroad" from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh,
"without limit as to term and duration," which contract was
afterwards assigned to the Telegraph Company (plaintiff in
error), and the assignment was ratified and affirmed by the act
of the legislature of Pennsylvania, entitled: "An act supplemental to an act entitled 'An act to incorporate the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company, approved March 24, 1849,
and to confirm certain agreements executed by said company,' " approved May three, one thousand eight hundred
and seventy-one, the same as if the said lease and contract
had been made by virtue of express authority of law, the
said act of assembly also providing that said Atlantic and
Ohio Telegraph Company should have and possess all the
rights, powers and privileges conferred by the third and
fourth sections of the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania
to incorporate the Eastern Telegraph Company, approved the
fifth day of April, 1866.
This act, the petition alleged, gave to the Telegraph Company "all the corporate rights, powers, privileges and fran-

WESTERN UNION TEL. 00. v. PENN. R. R. CO.
195 U. S.

599

Opinion of the Court.

chises of said Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company, including
the right to appropriate, on inability to agree with the owner,
all lands necessary for the construction, maintenance and
operation of the said lines of telegraph from Philadelphia to
Pittsburgh, with any and all such branches therefrom as it
may think proper."
The acts cited affirmed agreements or leases theretofore
made. Subsequent agreements were provided for, if at all,
by sections 3 and 4 of the act incorporating the Eastern Telegraph Company, as follows:
"SRc. 3. That the said corporation shall have power to
connect by contract, with other persons or corporations having other telegraphic lines within or out of this State, for the
purpose aforesaid; and it may also form a union with or
lease to other corporations, associations or individuals, incorporated by this Commonwealth or any other State, its own
lines, with their fixtures and apparatus, or lease from any individuals, associations or corporations incorporated by this
Commonwealth, or any other State, their lines, fixtures and
apparatus, and when such unions as aforesaid are formed the
stock may form a common stock upon such terms and conditions as the said companies or associations respectively
shall agree upon, and that as soon as such union shall be effected and a true copy of the agreementmade for that purpose,
duly certified under the corporate seal of the said companies,
shall have been filed in the office of the secretary of the Commonwealth, the stockholders of the said companies shall become one body, corporate and politic, under such name and
style as they shall adopt and agree upon and embody in their
certificate, with all the rights and privileges incident to a
corporation and with all the rights, powers and privileges
which, by virtue of this act, are vested in the company hereby
incorporated.
"SEC. 4. That the said corporation shall have power to purchase, make, use and maintain any connecting or side lines."
Under those sections the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Coin-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1964.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

pany was authorized to lease its lines to the Telegraph Company. A lease had already been made, as we have seen.
Those sections also authorized the companies to " form a
union" and "become a body corporate and politic, under
such name and style" as they should adopt. That was not
done. The Telegraph Company, therefore, is the simple lessee
of the Atlantic and Ohio Company, and has only the powers
of a lessee, and as such cannot exercise the right of eminent
domain conferred on the Atlantic and Ohio Company.
It is, however, further alleged that the Telegraph Company,
by the power vested in it by the lease from the Atlantic and
Ohio Company and the acts of the Pennsylvania legislature
confirming the same, and "in the exercise of all and every
other power enabling it in anywise to do so," duly located a
single line of telegraph along arid upon the right of way of the
Railroad Company and attempted to agree with the latter
company upon the prices of compensation therefor; and " that
the aforesaid corporate action of the Western Union Telegraph Company has been duly ratified and approved by corporate action in that behalf by the said Atlantic and Ohio
Telegraph Company."
It will be observed that the location, so called, was made
by the Telegraph Company and in its own name. It was not
made by the Atlantic and Ohio Company and in its name.
And the Atlantic and Ohio Company is not a party to this
action. The action was commenced and is prosecuted by the
Telegraph Company alone. The prayer is that, upon the payment of the compensation which shall be directed to be paid
for the "rights and interests acquired thereby (that is, by the
statutes and proceedings set out in the petition) by the said
Western Union Telegraph Company, possession be adjudged
to the Western Union Telegraph Company by this court of
the said use, right and interests according to law, and that
the title to the said rights and interests as against the defendant thereby vest in the said Western Union Telegraph
Company for the purposes aforesaid;

"

WESTERN UJNION TRL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. CO.
195 U. S.

601

Opinion of the Court.

If it can be said that under the allegations of the petition
the Atlantic and Ohio Company retains its rights as the lessor
of the Telegraph Company, still as to such rights it is a necessary party. To have made it a party might have precluded
jurisdiction in the Circuit Court.
But the Telegraph Company contends for eminent domain
in its own right as-lessee of the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph
Company, and in its own name, and combats the view that
it cannot receive a delegation of that power. The following
cases are relied on: California Central Ry. Co. v. Hooper, 76
California, 404; Crolley v. Minneapolis & St. Louis Ry. Co., 30
Minnesota, 541; C. & W. I. R. R. Co. v. I. C. R. R. Co., 113
Illinois, 156; Kip v. N. Y. & Harlem R. R. Co., 6 Hun, 24;
aff'd, 67 N. Y. 227; Abbott v. N. Y. & N. E. R. R. Co., 145
Massachusetts, 450.
These cases do not sustain the contention. In the case in
76 Calfornia a corporation commenced proceedings in eminent
domain. It afterwards consolidated with other corporations.
The new corporation thus created was held to be entitled to
continue the proceedings in its own name and for its benefit,
because it had acquired that right in the manner provided by
the statutes of the State.
In 30 Minnesota a railroad corporation condemned, paid for
and took certain land for its right of way. Without constructing its road, it transferred the right of way to another
railroad corporation. The owner of the land taken brought
ejectment for it, alleging the invalidity of the transfer. It
was held that his interests were not affected by the transfer,
and he could not question the capacity of the first company
to make, nor the second company to receive, the transfer.
In 113 Illinois the facts are somewhat complicated, but the
point decided relevant to our present discussion is, that it
mattered not that the necessity for an increase of a right of
way of a railroad company for additional tracks was caused
by the use of the road by other companies acting under lease
or by contract, nor by what company or companies the road

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

195 U. S.

was operated. It was still a public use, and (to quote the
court) " the needs of the lessees are as those of the lessor
company, and any condemnation for their wants may proceed in such latter company's name, and it all the while
stands responsible for the running of the road." Kip
v. N. Y. & H. R. Co., 6 Hun, 24; S. C., 67 N. Y. 227,
were cited.
If this case supports one contention of the Telegraph Company, it destroys another. It establishes that if the right of
eminent domain is given to the Telegraph Company by the
lease from the Atlantic and Ohio Telegraph Company that
right can only be exercised in the name of the latter company.
And such is also the effect of the cited cases, or rather the
cited case, for it is only one case appearing at different stages
in the reports. The plaintiff in the case, who was appellant
in the Court of Appeals (67 N. Y. 227), brought suit against
the defendant company to restrain it from prosecuting proceedings to condemn certain lands owned by him in the city
of New York. He had leased them to the company for
twenty-one years, and his contention was that the condemnation proceedings would impair the obligation of the lease and
should be enjoined.
The plaintiff alleged also a lease by the defendant of its
road and property to the New York Central and Hudson
River Railroad Company for 401 years, and claimed that the
lease abrogated the proceedings to condemn the land, and
terminated and removed all necessity for its acquisition for
the use of the defendant. It was held (1) that the relation
created by the lease was no impediment to the exercise of
eminent domain conferred upon the company by the statute
of the State; and (2) that the proceedings to condemn were
not affected by the lease. The court observed that the same
necessity existed in favor of the defendant after as before the
lease, and if the necessity was only in favor of the lessee it
was competent for " the lessee to continue the proceedings
in the name of the defendant." (Italics ours.)

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. PENN. R. R. CO. 603
195 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Abbott v. N. Y. & N. E. R. R. Co., the question involved
was whether the power to take land by eminent domain may
be given to a foreign corporation, and whether a corporation
by the consent of the legislature may take the power as a
quasi successor of another corporation to which it was originally granted. Under the statutes of the State those questions
were answered in the affirmative, and it was in regard to those
questions and statutes that Chief Justice Holmes, now a justice of this court, said that the reasons which have led some
courts and judges to doubt the necessity of the consent of the
legislature to a transfer of the right of eminent domain from
one corporation to another "show that the delectus personarum
is of little more than theoretical importance, and is the least
determining element in the more common cases where the
power is conferred." The case is not like that at bar, and
need not be further analyzed.
A case more applicable to the case at bar is Mayor and
Aldermen of Worcester v. Norwich & Worcester R. R. Co., 109
Massachusetts, 103. In that case the railroad company was required to unite with others in establishing a passenger station.
Resisting the proceedings which were brought to appoint commissioners to select a location, it was urged that it might become necessary to exercise the right of eminent domain, and
against that the railroad pleaded a lease to the Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad Company, which had been confirmed
by the legislature. There were other transfers of interests,
and of them and the lease the court said : "Yet none of these
leases or assignments can be construed to extend to the lessees
or assignees the power to exercise the right of eminent domain, or to restrict the right of the legislature to alter or repeal the charters." And again: "The lease by the Norwich
and Worcester Railroad Company did not make the lessees,
or their representatives, parties to the grant of power to eiercise the right of eminent domain. The right remained in
the original corporation, and the legislature might properly
deal with it exclusively in amending their (its) charter."
Judgment affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

195 U. S.

dissenting.

The judgment of the Circuit Court in this case rests mainly
upon the same grounds as the judgment in cases Nos. 89 and
199. For the reasons stated in my opinion in those cases, I
dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case.

Ex parte THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE. UNITED STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST
VIRGINIA.
No. 13, Original.

Argued November 28,1904.-Decided December 12, 1901.

Nothing in the decree of this court in Colombia v. Cauca Co., 190 U. S. 524,
prohibits the Circuit Court from allowing interest on the amount of the
items allowed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William G. Johnson for the Republic of Colombia,
petitioner.
Mr. John W. Beaumont, with whom Mr. Hugh L. Bond, Jr.,
and Mr. J. Walter Lord were on the brief, for the Cauca CornpLny, respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit

Court, ordering it to correct its decree entered in pursuance
of the decision in Colombia v. Cauca Company, 190 U. S. 524.

