CHAMBERS v. MISSISSIPPI

1205

Opinion in Chambers

CHAMBERS v. MISSISSIPPI
ON APPLICATION FOR RECONSIDERATION OF ORDER ADMITTING PETITIONER TO BAIL

No. A-785 (71-5908).

Decided February 14, 1972

Application of Mississippi Attoxney General, contending that petitioner's return to the community will create a dangerous situation, supported by affidavits of local law enforcement officials
stating in conclusory terms that petitioner's presence will create
a tense and explosive situation in the community, is denied and the
9rder admitting petitioner to bail is reaffirmed, as petitioner is a
lifelong resident pf the community, owns his home, has his family
there, served on the local police force, is a deacon in a local
church, has no prior record, and was released on bail for 14 months
before trial, apparently without incident.
See: 252 So. 2d 217.

MR. JUSTICE POWELL, Circuit Justice.

On January 31, .1972, counsel for Leon Chambers, petitioner in No. 71-5908, filed with me, as Circuit Justice
for the States constituting the Fifth Circuit, an application for bail pending consideration of his petition for writ
of certiorari. Petitioner's counsel detailed the reasons
making it appropriate for me to exercise my discretion,
under 18 U. S. C. ยง 3144, to admit this petitioner to bail.
A copy of his certiorari petition, which raises two nonfrivolous constitutional questions, was also attached to
his application. The Attorney General of Mississippi
declined to file a response objecting to the application.
On February 1, 1972, after careful review of petitioner's
application, I entered :an order admitting him to bail.
In order to assure that petitioner would not flee or pose
a danger to any other person, I imposed a number of
conditions on his release. He was required to post bail
bond in the sum of $15,000; to live at home with his
family in his hometown of Woodville, Mississippi; to
find employment; and to report, immediately upon release and periodically thereifter, to the local sheriff.

1206

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

405 U. S.

Ten days later, on February 11, 1972, the Attorney
General of Mississippi filed an application for reconsideration of my order admitting petitioner to bail. Although the Rules of this Court do not provide for such
an application, I have carefully re-examined all papers
submitted including a response from petitioner's counsel.
The Attorney General, in addition to contending that
petitioner's case is frivolous, asserts that petitioner's
"return to the community will create a dangerous situation to citizens of that community." In support of
this latter allegation, he proffers the affidavits of the
County Sheriff, the local Police Commissioner, and the
Chief of Police of Woodville. In conclusory terms, these
documents state that petitioner's presence will create
a tense and explosive situation in the community, which
might result in bloodshed. No specific facts are stated
in support of the opinions expressed. On the contrary,,
it appears that this petitioner's roots in the community
and record of good behavior merit his release pending
final determination of his case. Petitioner is a lifelong
resident of Woodville; he owns a home, subject to a
mortgage; he has a wife and nine children there; he
served for a period on the Woodville police force; he is
a. deacon in the local Baptist Church; and he has no
prior criminal record. Before his trial he was released
on bail for approximately 14 months, apparently without
incident. During his period of incarceration after his conviction it appears that petitioner was a model prisoner.
On this record, I am unable to conclude that petitioner's mere presence in the community poses such
a threat to the public "that the only way to protect
against it would be to keep [him] in jiil." Sellers v.
United States, 89 S. Ct. 36, 38, 21 L. Ed. 2d 64, 67
(1968) (Black, J., in chambers).
The order admitting petitioner to bail is hereby
reaffirmed.
It is so ordered.

