GRAVES v. BARNES
Opinion in Chambers

GRAVES v. BARNES
APPLICATION FOR STAY OF JUDGMENT

No. A-795.

Decided February 7, 1972

Application for stay of three-judge District Court's judgment in
Texas legislative reapportionment case, effecting elimination of
multi-member districts in Dallas and Bexar Counties, is denied, as
applicants did not sustain burden of showing that the decision below was erroneous and that implementation of the judgment pending appeal will lead to irreparable harm. Six other Justices, who
were consulted informally, believe the application should be denied.
See: 343 F. Supp. 704.

MR. JUSTICE POWELL, Circuit Justice.

This is an application for a stay of the judgment of a
three-judge court sitting in the Western District of Texas.
The court's decision covers issues raised in four consolidated actions. The principal issues were as follows:
1. In Graves v. Barnes, plaintiffs challenged the State's
reapportionment plan for the senatorial districts in Harris
County (Houston) on the ground that they were racially
gerrymandered.
2. In Regester v. Bullock, the State's reapportionment
plan for the Texas House of Representatives was challenged on the grounds of population deviations from
the one-man, one-vote requirement, and on the impermissibility of use of multi-member districts in the metropolitan communities.
3. In Mariott v. Smith, the House plan provision calling for a multi-member district for Dallas County was
challenged.
4. In Archer v. Smith, a generally similar attack was
leveled against the use of multi-member districting in
Bexar County (San Antonio).
The four cases were consolidated and tried by a single
three-judge panel. After full pretrial discovery, during

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

405 U. S.

which over 2,000 pages of depositions were taken, the
District Court heard testimony at a 3 1/2 -day hearing.
The extensive per curiam opinion, and the concurring
and dissenting opinions, which were handed down after
some three weeks of deliberation, reflect a careful and
exhaustive consideration of the issues in light of the
facts as developed. The court's conclusions, in substance, were as follows:
(a) The Senate redistricting plan, as promulgated by
the Texas Legislative Redistricting Board, was approved.
(b) The House redistricting plan was held violative
of the Equal Protection Clause because of population deviations from equality of representation. But, in an
exercise of judicial restraint, the court suspended its
decision in this respect for the purpose of affording the
Legislature of Texas an opportunity to adopt a new and
constitutional plan. Meanwhile, the forthcoming election may be held under the plan found to be deficient.
(c) The multi-member district plans for Dallas and
Bexar Counties were found to be unconstitutional under
the standard prescribed by this Court in Fortson v. Dorsey, 379 U. S. 433, 438-439 (1965); Burns v. Richardson,
384 U. S. 73, 88 (1966); and Whitcomb v. Chavis, 403
U. S. 124, 143 (1971). The three-judge court found from
the evidence that these multi-member district plans would
operate to minimize or cancel out the voting strength of
racial minority elements of the voting population, and
ordered the implementation of a plan calling for singlemember districts for Dallas and Bexar Counties. The
State offered no plan for single-member districts for these
counties, and the court was compelled to draft its own
plan. To minimize the disruptive impact of its ruling,
the court ordered that the State's requirement that candidates run from the districts of their residence be abated
for the forthcoming election. A candidate residing any-

GRAVES v. BARNES
1201

1203

Opinion in Chambers

where within the county, therefore, may run for election
from any district in the county.
(d) The evidence with respect to nine other metropolitan multi-member districts was found insufficient to
warrant treatment similar to that required for Dallas and
Bexar Counties.
(e) Finally, the court's order stated that its judgment
was final and that no stays would be granted.
In view of the foregoing holdings, the only present
necessity to consider a stay relates to the District Court's
decision with respect to multi-member districts in Dallas
and Bexar Counties. A number of principles have been
recognized to. govern a Circuit Justice's in-chambers review of stay applications. Stays pending appeal to this
Court are granted only in extraordinary circumstances.
A lower court judgment, entered by a tribunal that was
closer to the facts than the single Justice, is entitled to a
presumption of validity. Any party seeking a stay of
that judgment bears the burden of showing that the decision below was erroneous and that the implementation
of the judgment pending appeal will lead to irreparable
harm.
As a threshold consideration, Justices of this Court
have consistently required that there be a reasonable
probability that four members of the Court will consider
the issue sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari or to
note probable jurisdiction. See Mahan v. Howell, 404
U. S. 1201, 1202; Organized Village of Kake v. Egan,
80 S. Ct. 33, 4 L. Ed. 2d 34 (1959). Of equal importance
in cases presented on direct appeal-where we lack the
discretionary power to refuse to decide the merits-is the
related question whether five Justices are likely to conclude that the case was erroneously decided below. Justices have also weighed heavily the fact that the lower
court refused:to stay its order pending appeal, indicating

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion in Chambers

405 U. S.

that it was not sufficiently persuaded of the existence of
potentially irreparable harm as a result of enforcement
of its judgment in the interim.
In applying these considerations to the present case,
I conclude that a stay should not be granted. The case
received careful attention by the three-judge court, the
members of which were "on the scene" and more familiar
with the situation than the Justices of this Court; and
the opinions attest to a conscientious application of
principles enunciated by this Court. Moreover, the order
of the court was narrowly drawn to effectuate its decision
with a minimum of interference with the State's legislative processes, and with a minimum of administrative
confusion in the short run.
Following a practice utilized by other Justices in passing on applications raising serious constitutional questions (see Meredith v. Fair,83 S. Ct. 10, 9 L. Ed. 2d 43
(1962); McGee v. Eyman, 83 S. Ct. 230, 9 L. Ed. 2d 267
(1963)), I have consulted informally with each of my
Brethren who was available* at this time during the recess. Although no other Justice has participated in the
drafting of this opinion, I am authorized to say that each
of them would vote to deny this application. My denial
of a stay at this point, of course, may not be taken
either as a statement of my own position on the merits
of the difficult questions raised in this case, or as an indication of what may, in fact, ultimately be the view of my
colleagues on the Court.
The application is denied.

*All Justices, save two who were not available, have been consulted.

