OCTOBER TERM, 1971
405 U. S.

Syllabus

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH, N. A.,
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT

Argued January 10, 1972-Decided March 21, 1972

No. 70-305.

Respondent banks were subsidiaries of a holding company that also
controlled a management company, an insurance agency, and, from
1954, an insurance company (Security Life). In 1948 the banks
began to offer to arrange credit life insurance for their borrowers,
placing the insurance with an independent insurance carrier.
National banking laws were deemed to prohibit the banks from
receiving sales commissions, which were paid by the carrier to the
insurance agency subsidiary. The commissions were reported as
taxable income for the 1948-1954 period by the management company. After 1954, when Security Life was organized, the credit.
life insurance on the banks' customers was placed with an independent carrier, which reinsured the risks with Security Life, the
latter retaining 85% of the premiums. No sales commissions were
paid. Security Life reported all the reinsurance premiums on its
income tax returns for the period 1955 to 1959, at the preferential
tax rate for insurance companies. Petitioner, pursuant to 26
U. S. C. § 482, granting him power to allocate gross income among
controlled corporations in order to reflect the actual incomes of
the corporations, determined that 40% of Security Life's premium
income was allocable to the banks as commission income earned
for originating and processing the credit life insurance. The Tax
Court affirmed petitioner's action, but the Court of Appeals reversed. Held: Since the banks did not receive and were prohibited
by law from receiving sales commissions, no part of the reinsurance
premium income could be attributed to them, and petitioner's exercise of the § 482 authority was not warranted. Pp. 403-407.
436 F. 2d 1192, affirmed.
POWELL,

J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,

C. J., and DOUGLAS,

joined.

BLACKMUN,

post, p. 418.

BRENNAN,

STEWART,

and

REHNQUIST,

JJ.,

J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 407.
J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which WHITE, J., joined,

MARSHALL,

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 395
394

Opinion of the Court

Ernest J. Brown argued the cause for petitioner. On
the brief were Solicitor General Griswold, Acting Assistant Attorney General Ugast, Matthew J. Zinn, and
Bennet N. Hollander.
Stephen H. Anderson argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief was S. J. Quinney.
Ernest Getz filed a brief for Bud Kouts Chevrolet
Co. et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case presents for review a determination by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue (Commissioner),
pursuant to § 482 of the Internal Revenue Act,' that
the income of taxpayers within a controlled group should
be reallocated to reflect the true taxable income of each.
Deficiencies were assessed against respondents. The
Tax Court affirmed the Commissioner's action, and
respondents appealed to the Court of Appeals for the
Tenth Circuit. That court reversed the decision of the
Tax Court, 436 F. 2d 1192 (1971), and we granted the
Commissioner's petition for certiorari to resolve a conflict between the decision below and that in Local Finance Corp. v. Commissioner, 407 F. 2d 629 (CA7),
cert. denied, 396 U. S. 956 (1969). We now affirm the
.decision of the Court of Appeals.
' Title 26 U. S. C. § 482 provides:
"In any case of two or more organizations, trades, or businesses
(whether or not incorporated, whether or not organized in the United
States, and whether or not affiliated) owned or controlled directly or
indirectly by the same interests, the Secretary or his delegate may
distribute, apportion, or allocate gross income, deductions, credits,
or allowances between or among such organizations, trades, or businesses, if he determines that such distribution, apportionment, or allocation is necessary in order to prevent evasion of taxes or clearly to
reflect the income of any of such organizations, trades, or businesses."

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

405 U. S.

Respondents, First Security Bank of Utah, N. A.,
and First Security Bank of Idaho, N. A. (the Banks),
are national banks that, during the tax years, were
wholly owned subsidiaries of First Security Corp.
(Holding Company). Other, non-bank, subsidiaries of
the Holding Company, relevant to this case, were
First Security Co. (Management Company), Ed. D.
Smith & Sons, an insurance agency (Smith), andfrom June 1954--First Security Life Insurance Company of Texas (Security Life).
Beginning in 1948,
the Banks offered to arrange for borrowers credit life,
health, and accident insurance (credit life insurance).
The Tax Court found that they did this "for several
reasons," including (1) offering a service increasingly
supplied by competing financial institutions, (2) obtaining the benefit of the additional collateral that
credit insurance provides by repaying loans upon the
death, injury, -or illness of the borrower, and (3) providing an "additional source of income-part of the
premiums from the insurance-to Holding Company or
its subsidiaries."
Until 1954, any borrower who elected to purchase
this insurance was referred by the Banks to two independent insurance companies. The premium rate
charged was $1 per $100 of coverage per year, the rate
commonly charged in the industry. The Insurance
Commissioners of the States involved-Utah, Idaho, and
Texas-accepted this rate. The Banks followed a routine procedure in making this insurance available to customers. The lending officer would explain the function
and availability of credit insurance. If the customer
desired the coverage, the necessary form was completed,
a certificate of insurance was delivered, and the premium
was collected or added to the customer's loan. The Banks
then forwarded the completed forms and premiums to
Management Company, which maintained records of the

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH
394

397

Opinion of the Court

insurance purchased and forwarded the premiums to
the insurance carrier. Management Company also processed claims filed under the policies. The cost to each
of the Banks for the actual time devoted to explaining and processing the insurance was less than $2,000
per year, characterized by the courts below as "negligible." The cost to Management Company of the services rendered by it was also negligible, slightly in excess
of $2,000 per year.
It was the custom in the insurance business (although
not invariably followed), regardless of the cost of incidental paperwork, to pay a "sales commission"-ranging
from 40% to 55% of net premiums collected-to a
party who originated or generated the business. But
the Banks had been advised by counsel that they could
not lawfully conduct the business of an insurance agency
or receive income resulting from their customers' purchase of credit life insurance. Neither the Banks nor
any of their officers were licensed to sell insurance,
and there is no question here of unlawfully acting as
unlicensed agents. The Banks received no commissions
or other income on or with respect to the credit insurance generated by them. During the period from 1948
to 1954 commissions were paid by the independent companies writing the insurance directly, to Smith, one of
the wholly owned subsidiaries of Holding Company.
These commissions were reported as taxable income, not
by Smith, but by Management Company which had
rendered the services above described. During this
period (1948-1954), the Commissioner did not attempt
2
to allocate the commissions to the Banks.
2 The corporate income tax
taxable income up to $25,000
than $25,000. 26 U. S. C. §
commissions in question, we

imposes the same rate of taxatibn on
and the same rate for income greater
11. Therefore, if, excluding the sales
assume, as seems likely, that before

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

405 U. S.

In 1954, Holding Company organized Security Life,
a new wholly owned subsidiary licensed to engage in the
insurance business. A new procedure was then adopted
with respect to placing credit life insurance' It was
referred by the Banks to, and written by an independent
company, American National Insurance Company of
Galveston, Texas (American National), at the same rate
to the customer. American National then reinsured the
policies with Security Life pursuant to a "treaty of reinsurance." For assuming the risk under the policies
sold to the Banks' customers, Security Life retained 85%
of the premiums. American National, which furnished
actuarial and accounting services, received the remaining 15%. No sales commissions were paid. Under this
new plan,' the Banks continued to offer credit life insurance to their borrowers in the same manner as before.
Security Life was not a paper corporation. It commenced business in 1954 with an initial capital of $25,000,
1954 the income of both respondents and of Management Company exceeded $25,000, then the total taxes paid by the Holding
Company subsidiaries would not be affected if the commissions were
allocated wholly to respondents, or to Management Company, or
partially to all three.
3
This plan was proposed to Holding Company by American National, which was making similar recommendations to other financial
institutions. The Tax Court found that insurance companies anticipated that lending institutions would soon begin to form their own
affiliated life insurance companies to write the credit insurance, which
was proving to be a profitable business. Such a move by lending
institutions would deprive the independent insurance companies of
substantial credit insurance business. The type of plan recommended by American National was intended to salvage a portion of
such business by charging a fee for the actuarial, accounting, and
other services made available to Security Life, which reinsured the
entire risk. T. C. Memo 1967-256.
4 Taxpayers are, of course, generally free to structure their business
affairs as they consider to be in their best interests, including lawful
structuring (which may include holding companies) to minimize
taxes. Perhaps the classic statement of this principle is Judge

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 399
394

Opinion of the Court

which was increased in 1956 to $100,000. Although it
did not become a full-line insurance company (contemplated as a possibility when organized), its reinsurance
business was substantial. The risks assumed by it had
grown to $41,350,000 by the end of 1959, and it had
paid substantial claims.5
Security Life reported the entire amount of reinsurance
premiums, 85% of the premiums charged, in its income
for the years 1955-1959. Because the income of life
insurance companies then was subject to a lower effective
tax rate than that of ordinary corporations, the total tax
liability for Holding Company and its subsidiaries was
less than it would have been had Security Life paid
a part of the premium to the Banks or Management
Company as sales commissions.' Pursuant to his §482
Learned Hand's comment in his dissenting opinion in Commissioner
v. Newman, 159 F. 2d 848, 850-851 (CA2 1947):
"Over and over again courts have said that there is nothing sinister
in so arranging one's affairs as to keep taxes as low as possible.
Everybody does so, rich or poor; and all do right, for nobody owes
any public duty to pay more than the law demands: taxes are enforced exactions, not voluntary contributions. To demand more in
the name of morals is mere cant."
See Knetsch v. United States, 364 U. S. 361, 365 (1960); Chirelstein,
Learned Hand's Contribution to the Law of Tax Avoidance, 77 Yale
L. J. 440 (1968).
5 The opinion of the Tax Court, supra, includes tables showing the
profitability of Security Life. Its net worth (capital and surplus)
increased from $161,370.52 at the end of 1955 to $1,050,220 at the
end of 1959, despite the paying out of claims and claims expenses
over the five-year period totaling $525,787.91. The Tax Court found
that: "Although Security Life's business proved to be successful,
there was no way to judge at the outset whether it would succeed.
In relation to its capital structure, Security Life reinsured a large
amount of risk."
6 Both the Life Insurance Company Tax Act for 1955, 70 Stat.
36, applicable to the years 1955-1957, and the Life Insurance
Company Income Tax Act of .1959, 73 Stat. 112, applicable to later
years, accorded preferential tax treatment to life insurance companies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

405 U. S.

power to allocate gross income among controlled corporations in order to reflect the actual incomes of the
corporations, the Commissioner determined that 40%
of Security Life's premium income was allocable to the
Banks as compensation for originating and processing
the credit life insurance.' It is the Commissioner's view
that the 40% of the premium income so allocated is
the equivalent of commissions that the Banks earned
and must be included in their "true taxable income." 8
The parties agree that § 482 is designed to prevent
"artificial shifting, milking, or distorting of the true
net incomes of commonly controlled enterprises."'
Treasury Regulations provide:
'The purpose of section 482 is to place a controlled
taxpayer on a tax parity with an uncontrolled taxpayer, by determining according to the standard
of an uncontrolled taxpayer, the true taxable income
from the property and business of a controlled taxpayer. . . . The standard to be applied in every
case is that of an uncontrolled taxpayer dealing at
arm's length with another uncontrolled taxpayer." 10
The question we must answer is whether there was
a shifting or distorting of the Banks' trub net income
7The Commissioner made an alternative allocation to Management
Company. Because it upheld his allocation to the Banks, the Tax
Court rejected this alternative. In reversing the allocation to the
Banks, the Court of Appeals found the record insufficient to pass
on the alternative allocation. It therefore ordered that the case be
remanded to the Tax Court for further consideration. The alternative allocation is therefore not before us.
8
See 26 CFR § 1.482-1 (a)(6) (1971).
9B. Bittker & J. Eustice, Federal Income Taxation of Corporations
and Shareholders p. 15-21 (3d ed. 1971).
1026 CFR § 1.482-1 (b) (1) (1971). The first regulations interpreting this section of the statute were issued in 1934. They have
remained virtually unchanged. Jenks, Treasury Regulations Under
Section 482, 23 Tax Lawyer 279 (1970).

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 401
394

Opinion of the Court

resulting from the receipt and retention by Security
Life of the premiums above described."
We note at the outset that the Banks could never
have received a share of these premiums. National
banks are authorized to act as insurance agents when located in places having a population not exceeding 5,000
inhabitants, 12 U. S. C. A. § 92.12 Although § 92 does
not explicitly prohibit banks in places with a population
of over 5,000 from acting as insurance agents, courts have
held that it does so by implication.'
The Comptroller
11 The court below held that the mere generation of business does
not necessarily result in taxable income. As we decide this case on
a different ground, we need not consider the circumstances in which
the origination or referral of business may or may not result in taxable income to the originating party. We do agree that origination
of business does not necessarily result in such income. In this case
if the Banks had been unaffiliated with any other entities (i. e., had
been separate, independent banks, unaffiliated with any holding company group), they would nevertheless have performed the "services"
that the Commissioner asserts resulted in taxable income. These
services-namely the negligible paperwork and the referring of the
credit insurance to a company licensed to wri, it-were performed
(as the Tax Court noted) for the convenience o. jank customers and
to assure additional collateral. for loans. They also may have been
necessary to meet competition. The fact of affiliation, enabling
referral of the business to another subsidiary in the holding company group, does not alter the character of what was done. The act
which is relevant, in terms of generating insurance premiums and
commissions, is the referral of the business. Whether this referral is
to an affiliated or an unaffiliated insurance company should make no
difference as to whether the bank, which never receives the income,
has earned it.
12 Section 92 of the National Bank Act was enacted in 1916.
When the statutes were revised in 1918 and re-enacted, § 92 was
omitted. The revisers of the United States Code have omitted it
from recent editions of the Code. Howel er, the Comptroller of the
Currency considers § 92 to be effective and he still incorporates the
provision in his Regulations, 12 CFR §§ 2.1-2.5 (1971).
13 Saxon v. Georgia Association of Independent Insurance Agents,
Inc., 399 F. 2d 1010 (CA5 1968).- See Commissioner v. Morris Trust,
367 F. 2d 794, 795 (CA4 1966).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

405 U. S.

of the Currency has acquiesced in this holding,1 and the
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit expressed its
agreement in the opinion below.
The penalties for violation of the banking laws include possible forfeiture of a bank's franchise and personal liability of directors. The Tax Court found that
the Banks, upon advice of counsel, "held the belief that
it would be contrary to Federal banking law . . . to receive income resulting from their customers' purchase
of credit insurance" and, pursuant to this belief, "the
two Banks have never received or attempted to receive
commissions or reinsurance premiums resulting from
their customers' purchase of credit insurance." 11
Petitioner does not contest this finding by the Tax
Court or the holding in this respect of the Court of Appeals below. Accordingly, we assume for purposes of this
decision that the Banks were prohibited from receiving insurance-related income, although this prohibition
did not apply to non-bank subsidiaries of Holding
Company.1
12 CFR §§ 2.1-2.5 (1971).
Findings of fact and opinion in T. C. Memo 1967-256, p. 671456, filed Dec. 27, 1967, in this case.
16 MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL'S dissenting opinion is based on the
"crucial fact . . . [that] respondents [the Banks] have already violated the federal statute and regulations by soliciting insurance
premiums." The statute, 12 U. S. C. A. § 92, prohibits a national
bank from acting "as the agent" of an insurance company "by
soliciting and selling insurance and collecting premiums on policies."
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL concludes that the banks have violated
14

15

this statute, and notes that "the penalties .

.

. are indeed severe."

This finding of illegality, with respect to conduct of the Banks
extending back to 1948, is without support either in the record or
in any authority cited. Indeed, the record is to the contrary. The
Tax Court found as a fact that there was no "agency agreement"
between the Banks and the insurance companies; it further found
that the Banks "made available" the credit insurance to their customers. There is no finding, and nothing in the record to support

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH
394

403

Opinion of the Court

We know of no decision of this Court wherein a
person has been found to have taxable income that.
he did not receive and that he was prohibited from
receiving. In cases dealing with the concept of income,
it has been assumed that the person to whom the income
was attributed could have received it. The underlying
assumption always has been that in order to be taxed
for income, a taxpayer must have complete dominion
over it. "The income that is subject to a man's unfettered command and that he is free to enjoy at his
own option may be taxed to him as his income, whether
he sees fit to enjoy it or not." Corliss v. Bowers, 281
U. S. 376, 378 (1930).
It is, of course, well established that income assigned
before it is received is nonetheless taxable to the assignor. But the assignment-of-income doctrine assumes
a finding, that the Banks were agents of the insurance companies
or that they engaged in "selling insurance" within the meaning
of the statute. The Banks no doubt "solicited" in the sense that
they encouraged their customers to take out the insurance. But
in the absence of an agency relationship, and in view of the undisputed fact that the Banks received no commissions or premiums,
it cannot be said that there was a violation of the statute. Moreover, the Banks were regularly examined by the federal banking
authorities "looking for violations in the national banking laws."
The making of 'credit insurance available to customers Was and
is a common practice in the banking business. There is no suggestion that the federal banking authorities considered this service
to 'customers to be a violation of the law as long as the Banks
received no commissions or fees. This administrative interpretation
over many years is entited to great weight.
The dissenting opinion raises. this serious issue for the first time.
It was not raised at any stage in the proceedings below. Nor was
it briefed or argued in this Court. The Commissioner, the Tax
Court, the Court of Appeals, and the Solicitor General all assumed
that the Banks' conduct in this respect was perfectly lawful. But
quite apart from the consistent administrative acceptance and from
the assumptions by the Commissioner and the courts below, we think
there is no basis for a finding of this serious statutory violation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

405 U. S.

that the income would have been received by the taxpayer had he not arranged for it to be paid to another.
In Harrison v. Schaffner, 312 U. S. 579, 582 (1941), we
said:
"[O]ne vested with the right to receive income
[does] not escape the tax by any kind of anticipatory arrangement, however skillfully devised, by
which he procures payment of it to another, since,
by the exercise of his power to command the income, he enjoys the benefit of the income on which

the tax is laid."

17

One of the Commissioner's regulations for the implementation of § 482 expressly recognizes the concept
that income implies dominion or control of the taxpayer. It provides as follows:
"The interests controlling a group of controlled
taxpayers are assumed to have complete power to
cause each controlled taxpayer so to conduct its
affairs that its transactions and accounting records
truly reflect the taxable income from the property
and business of each of the controlled taxpayers." "
This regulation is consistent with the control concept
heretofore approved by this Court, although in a different context. The regulation, as applied to the facts
in this case, contemplates that Holding Company-the
controlling interest-must have "complete power" to
shift income among its subsidiaries. It is only where
this power exists, and has been exercised in such a way
that the "true taxable income" of a subsidiary has been
See Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112 (1940) (assignment of
interest coupons attached to bonds owned by taxpayer); Lucas v.
Earl, 281 U. S. 111 (1930) (taxpayer assigned to wife one-half interest in his earnings). See generally Commissioner v. Sunnen, 333
U. S. 591 (1948), and cases discussed therein at 604-610.
18 26 CFR § 1.482-1 (b) (1) (1971).
17

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 405
Opinion of the Court

394

understated, that the Commissioner is authorized to

reallocate under § 482. But Holding Company had no
such power unless it acted in violation of federal tanking laws. The "complete power" referred to in the
regulations hardly includes the power to force a subsidiary to violate the law.
Apart from the inequity of attributing to the Banks
taxable income that they have not received and may
not lawfully receive, neither the statute nor our prior
decisions require such a result. We are not faced with
a situation such as existed in those cases, urged by the
Commissioner, in which we held the proceeds of criminal activities to be taxable." Those cases concerned
situations in which the taxpayer had actually received
funds. Moreover, the illegality involved was the act
that gave rise to the income. Here the originating
and referring of the insurance, a practice widely followed, is acknowledged to be legal. Only the receipt
of insurance commissions :or premiums thereon by national banks is not. Had the Banks ignored the banking laws, thereby risking the loss of their charters and
subjecting their officers to personal liability,"0 the illegalincome cases would be relevant. But the Banks from
the inception of their use of credit life insurance in 1948
were careful never to place themselves in that position.
We think that fairness requires the tax to fall on the
party that actually receives the premiums rather than
on the party that cannot.21
9

James v. United States, 366 U. S.213 (1961); Rutkin v. United
States, 343 U. S. 130 (1952).
212 U. S. C. §93.
21 Thus, in Commissioner v. Lester, 366 U. S. 299 (1961),
in determining that a taxpayer should not be taxed on alimony payments
to 'his divorced wife, the Court determined that it was more consistent with the basic precepts of income tax law that the wife, who
received and had power to spend the payments, should be taxed
rather than the husband who actually earned the money.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
Opinion of the Court

405 U. S.

In L. E. Shunk Latex Products, Inc. v. Commissioner,
18 T. C. 940 (1952), the Tax Court considered a closely
analogous situation. The same interest controlled a
manufacturer and a distributor of rubber prophylactics.
The OPA Lice Regulations of World War II became
effective on December 1, 1941. Prior thereto the distributor had raised its prices to retailers, but the manufacturer had not increased the prices charged to its
affiliated distributor. The Commissioner, acting under
§ 482, attempted to allocate some of the distributor's income to the manufacturer on the ground that a portion
of the distributor's profits was in fact earned by the
manufacturer, even though the manufacturer was prohibited by the OPA regulations from increasing its
prices. In holding that the Commissioner had acted
improperly, the Tax Court said that he had "no authority to attribute to petitioners income which they
could not have received." 18 T. C., at 961.
It is argued, finally, that the "services" rendered by
the Banks in making credit insurance available to customers "would have been compensated had the corpora2

2 As

noted at the outset of this opinion, certiorari was granted
to resolve the conflict between the decision below and that in Local
Finance Corp. v. Commissioner, 407 F. 2d 629 (CA7 1969). The Tax
Court in this case felt bound to follow Local Finance Corp., which
was decided subsequently to L. E. Shunk Latex Products, Inc. v.
Commissioner, 18 T. C. 940 (1952). For the reasons stated in the
opinion above, we think Local Finance Corp. was erroneously decided
and that the earlier views of the Tax Court were correct.
See Teschner v. Commissioner, 38 T. C. 1003, 1009 (1962):
"In the case before us, the taxpayer, while he had no power to
dispose of income, had a power to appoint or designate its recipient.
Does the existence or exercise of such a power alone give rise to
taxable income in his hands? We think clearly not. In Nicholas A.
Stavroudis, 27 T. C. 583, 590 (1956), we found it to be settled
doctrine that a power to direct the distribution of trust income to
others is not alone sufficient to justify the taxation of that income
to the possessor of such a power."

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 407
394

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

23
tions been dealing with each other at arm's length."
The short answer is that the proscription against acting
as insurance agent and receiving compensation therefor
applies to all national banks located in places with
population - in excess of 5,000 inhabitants. It applies
equally to such banks whether or not they are controlled
by a holding company. If these Banks had been independent of any such control-as4 most banks are-no
commissions or premiums could have been received lawfully and there would have been no taxable income.24
As stated in the Treasury Regulations, the "purpose of
section 482 is to place a controlled taxpayer on a tax

parity with

an uncontrolled

taxpayer . ...

"

We

think our holding comports with such parity treatment.
We conclude that the premium income received by
Security Life could not be attributable to the Banks.
Holding Company did not utilize its control over the
Banks and Security Life to distort their true net incomes. The Commissioner's exercise of his § 482 authority was therefore unwarranted in this case. The
judgment below is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL,

dissenting.

The facts of this case illustrate the natural affinity
that lending institutions and insurance companies have
for each other. Congress depends on the ability of the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue to utilize § 482 of
the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U. S. C. § 482, to insure
that this affinity does not provide a basis for tax avoidance. H. R. Rep. No. 1098, 84th Cong., 1st Sess., 7;
S. Rep. No. 1571, 84th Cong., 2d Sess., 8. In my opin23 See dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICEBLACKMUN, post, at 422.
24 If an unaffiliated bank were able to provide the insurance at
a cheaper rate because no commissions were paid, this would benefit
the customers but would result in no.-taxable income.
25 26 CFR § 1.482-1 (b) (1) (1971).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

405 U. S.

ion, today's decision renders § 482 a less efficacious
weapon against tax avoidance schemes than Congress
intended and provides the respondents with an unwarranted tax advantage. I dissent.
Section 482 provides:
"In any case of two or more organizations, trades,
or businesses (whether or not incorporated, whether
or not organized in ihe United States, and whether
or not affiliated) owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the same interests, the Secretary or his
delegate may distribute: apportion, or allocate gross
income, deductions, credits, or allowances between
or among such organizations, trades, or businesses,
if he determines that such distribution, apportionment, or allocation is necessary in order to prevent
evasion of taxes or clearly to reflect the income of
any of such organizations, trades, or businesses."
First enacted as § 45 of the Revenue Act of 1928, 45
Stat. 806, the statute was intended to prevent the
avoidance of tax liability through fictions and "to deny
the power to shift income . . . arbitrarily among controlled corporations, and to place such corporations
rather on a parity with uncontrolled concerns." Central Cuba Sugar Co. v. Commissioner, 198 F. 2d 214, 216
(CA2 1952). See H. R. Rep. No. 2, 70th Cong., 1st
Sess., 16-17; S. Rep. No. 960, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.,
24-25. It is intended to serve the same purpose in
the present Code.
It is well-established law that in analyzing a transaction under § 482, the test is whether the arrangement
as structured for income tax purposes by interlocking
corporate interests would have been similarly structured
by taxpayers dealing at arm's length. See, e. g., Borge
v. Commissioner, 405 F. 2d 673 (CA2 1968), cert. denied
sub nom. Danica Enterprises v. Commissioner, 395 U. S.

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH
394

MARSHALL,

409

J., dissenting

933 (1969); Eli Lilly & Co. v. United States, 178 Ct.
Cl. 666, 372 F. 2d 990 (1967).
Applying that test to this case, the following facts
are relevant. Before 1954, an independent insurance
company paid respondents commissions ranging from
40% to 45% for their services in offering insurance
to borrowers designed to discharge their debts in the
event that they died or became disabled during the
term of their loans. After 1954, respondents offered
borrowers policies issued by a different insurance company. At this time the holding company that controlled respondents created a new subsidiary to reinsure
the borrowers who purchased policies. By paying off
the independent insurance company with 15% of the
proceeds of the policies, the subsidiary assumed the
insurance risks and garnered the remaining 85% of the
proceeds. No commission was paid to respondents by
either the independent company or the insurance
subsidiary.
The tax advantage of the post-1954 structure derived
from the fact that the Life Insurance Company Tax
Act for 1955, 70 Stat. 36, as amended by the Life Insurance Company Income Tax Act of 1959, 73 Stat. 112, as
amended, 26 U. S. C. § 801 et seq., gives -preferential
tax treatment to life insurance companies. By funneling all proceeds from the sales of the insurance policies
to a subsidiary that qualified for tax treatment as a
life insurance company, the holding company avoided
the heavier tax that would have been imposed on respondents had they been paid commissions.
The Commissioner's analysis of this case is not overly
complex: He saw that respondents performed essentially
the same services and generated the same income after
1954 that they did before, and he concluded that § 482
required that they should be taxed on the premiums
that they were actually earning.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

405 U. S.

Based on respondents' earlier experience dealing at
arm's length with an independent insurance company
and on the well-known fact that insurers pay solicitors
a portion of the premium as a commission for generating
income, see Local Finance Corp. v. Commissioner, 48
T. C. 773, 786 (1967), aff'd, 407 F. 2d 629, 631-632
(CA7 1969), the Commissioner determined that 40%
of the premium income was properly allocated to
respondents.
The respondents make, in essence, two arguments in
their attempt to rebut the Commissioner's position.
First, they urge that they never received any funds
as a result of offering the policies to borrowers, and
that it is therefore unfair to tax them on any portion
of said proceeds. If § 482 is to have any meaning, that
argument must be rejected. It makes absolutely no
sense to examine this case with a technical eye as to
whether respondents actually received or had a "right"
to receive any commissions. This is not a case involving
independent companies or private individuals where we
must scrupulously avoid taxing someone on money he
will never receive regardless of his will in the matter.
See, e. g., Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5 (1937); cf.
Teschner v. Commissioner, 38 T. C. 1003 (1962). This
is a case involving related corporations, and § 482 recognizes that such corporations may be treated differently
from natural persons or unrelated corporations for certain tax purposes.
We need not look far to find that this entire complicated economic structure-established, designed, administered, and amendable by the holding companyhad the right to the proceeds. Pursuant to § 482, the
Commissioner properly attempted to insure that the
proceeds would be equitably allocated.
The Court apparently concedes that if respondents'
only argument against taxation were that they have

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 411
394

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

received no money, that argument would fail. This
concession is, in fact, mandated by various decisions of
this Court, including Harrison v. Schaffner, 312 U. S.
579 (1941); Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112 (1940),
and Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111 (1930).
Having implicitly rejected the argument that mere
nonreceipt of money is sufficient to avoid taxation, the
Court proceeds to accept respondents' second argument
that in this case the taxpayer is legally barred from ever
receiving money, and in this circumstance he cannot be
taxed on it. Respondents find a legal bar to receipt of
the proceeds at issue here in 12 U. S. C. A. § 92, which
provides:
"In addition to the powers now vested by law
in national banking associations organized under
the laws of the United States any such association
located and doing business in any place the population of which does not exceed five thousand inhabitants, as shown by the last preceding decennial
census, may, under such rules and regulations as
may be prescribed by the Comptroller of the Currency, act as the agent for any fire, life, or other
insurance company authorized by the authorities
of the State in which such bank is located to do
business in said State, by soliciting and selling insurance and collecting premiums on policies issued
by such company; and may receive for services
so rendered such fees or commissions as may be
agreed upon between the said association and the
insurance company for which it may act as agent;
and may also act as the broker or agent for others
in making or procuring loans on real estate located
within one hundred miles of the place in which
said bank may be located, receiving for such services.
a reasonable fee or commission: Provided, however,
That no such bank shall in any case guarantee

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

405 U. S.

either the principal or interest of any such loans
or assume or guarantee the payment of any premium on insurance policies issued through its agency
by its principal: And provided further, That the
bank shall not guarantee the truth of any statement made by an assured in filing his application
for insurance."
This statute by inference and the regulations of the
Comptroller of the Currency, 12 CFR §§ 2.1-2.5, by explicit language bar national banks in communities with
more than 5,000 inhabitants from selling, soliciting, or
receiving the proceeds from selling insurance. Respondents are within the legal prohibition and the penalties
provided for a violation are indeed severe. Assuming
that the respondents will not attempt to violate the
law and not wishing to appear to encourage a violation, the Court concludes that respondents will receive
none of the proceeds and that they cannot be taxed on
money they will never receive.
But the crucial fact in this case is that under their own
theory respondents have already violated the federal statute and regulations by soliciting insurance premiums.
Title 12 U. S. C. A. § 92 was added to the federal banking
laws in 1916 at the suggestion of John Skelton Williams,
who was then Comptroller of the Currency. He wrote to
Congress to recommend that national banks in small
communities be permitted to associate with insurance
companies, but that banks in larger communities be prohibited from doing the same:
"It seems desirable from the standpoint of public
policy and banking efficiency that this authority
should be limited to banks in small communities.
This additional income will strengthen them and
increase their ability to make a fair return to their
shareholders, while the new business is not likely to

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH
394

413

MARSHALL, J., dissenting

assume such proportions as to distract the officers
of the bank from the principal business of banking.
Furthermore in many small places ,he amount of
insurance policies written . . . is not sufficient to
take up the entire time of an insurance broker, and
the bank is not therefore likely to trespass upon outside business naturally belonging to others.
"I think it would be unwise and therefore undesirable to confer this privilege generally upon banks
in large cities where the legitimate business of banking affords ample scope for the energies of trained
and expert bankers. I think it would be unfortunate
if any movement should be made in the direction of
placing the banks of the country in the category of
department stores. . . ." Letter of June 8, 1916, to
Senate, 53 Cong. Rec. 11001.
There is nothing in the-history of the provision to
indicate that Congress was more concerned with banks'
actually receiving money than with their performing
the activities that generated the money. In fact, the
history that is available indicates that it is the activities
themselves that Congress wished to stop. Banks in large
communities were simply not permitted to do anything
that insurance agents might do, i. e., they were not permitted to solicit insurance.
Under respondents' theory of the case, the legal violation is thus a fait accompli aid the respondents are taxable as if there had been no illegality.' See, e. g., United
I Neither the statute nor the regulations use the words "originating and referring" insurance. These are the words chosen by the
Court to describe the respondents' activities, ante, ut 405. The
statute and regulations speak of "soliciting and selling." Because
the respondents themselves argue that they would violate § 92 and
the regulations were they to receive the income generated by their
activities, I assume that they, in effect, are admitting that these
activities amounted to "soliciting and selling" insurance. Thus,

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

405 U. S.

States v. Sullivan, 274 U. S. 259 (1927); Rutkin v.
United States, 343 U. S. 130 (1952); James v. United
States, 366 U. S. 213 (1961). See also Tank Truck
Rentals v. Commissioner, 356 U. S. 30 (1958).
the Commissioner could properly determine that the statute was
violated by the acts of solicitation, and, as the Court recognizes,

since "the illegality involved was the act which gave rise to the income," this Court's prior decisions permit the Commissioner to tax
the income of the lawbreakers.
If, however, the Court is attempting to distinguish sub silentio
between "originating and referring" and "soliciting" and is concluding that only the latter is illegal, then there is nothing in the statute
or regulations that would make illegal the receipt of income generated by the former. Hence, the Commissioner could reject the
respondents' second argument that it would violate federal banking
laws to include the proceeds in their income.
Whichever -approach the Court selects, the statute requires
consistency-i. e., the statute requires that the activities that produce income be illegal before the receipt of the income is deemed
to violate the law.
I agree with the Court that deference must be paid to the expertise
of the Comptroller, but in proposing that § 92 be added to the
already existing banking laws, Comptroller Williams himself noted
that "[i]t is certainly clear that the Comptroller of the Currency
has no right to authorize or permit a national bank to exercise powers
not conferred upon it by law." Letter of June 8, 1016, supra.
Senator Owen, who shepherded the 1916 legislation through the
Senate, noted at one point that § 92 is not a very important part
of the statute. 53 Cong. Rec. 11001. Perhaps, it is therefore unimportant whether or not the respondents have technically violated it.
Whether or not the Comptroller has properly permitted such activities to take place may also be of no great moment.
What is critical to a correct disposition of this case, in my view, is
that if respondents' activities are not illegal, there is no reason that
receipt of the income generated from them should be illegal. It
should be pointed out that the theory that receipt of said income
would be illegal was first proffered by respondents' counsel. This
theory is certainly self-serving in the sense that it provides what
the Court regards as the dispositive factor in this case without hindering the activities of the holding company in any way.
The Court suggests that the Commissioner has never relied on the

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 415
394

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

The Court seeks, however, to distinguish all of the
prior cases holding that a taxpayer may be taxed on
income illegally earned on the ground that the issue
was never raised as to whether the taxpayers in those
cases had actually received the income. The distinction is valid but it does not warrant a different result
in this case.
The reasoning of the majority runs along these lines:
if A violates the law-by attempted embezzlement or
by illegally soliciting insurance sales, for example-but
he receives no money and has no "legal right" to receive
any money, then he cannot. be taxed as if the money had
been received; but, if A actually embezzles money or
receives insurance premiums in violation of the law, A
can be taxed even though he may have transferred the
money without any personal gain to a third party from
whom he has no right of recovery.
I would agree with this analysis in most cases. Where
I differ from the Court is in which category to place this
transaction. To -pretend that respondents have not received any money and have no right to any money is to
ignore the thrust of § 482. That section requires that we
treat this case as if the commissions had been paid to
theory of the case expressed in this opinion. On the contrary, the
Commissioner argued in his brief (p. 13) as follows:
"The Commissioner's allocation does not force respondents to violate the federal banking law. It was they, not the Commissioner,
who chose to solicit and sell credit life insurance at a rate set at a
sufficiently high level to permit the payment of commissions. if
their activities did not violate the banking law, the Commissioner's
allocation will not, of itself, constitute a violation on their part.
And, surely, the payment of taxes would not be ap illegal act."
Both sides dealt with this point in oral argument' Tr. of Oral Arg.
14-18, 30, 40.
This is the nub of the case. What is there in the legislative history or the purpose of § 92 that requires that we treat the activities
as legal, but the receipt of the income they generate as illegal?

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

405 U. S.

respondents and had been transferred to the insurance
subsidiary by them. Of course, that did not occur. But,
we know that the whole notion of the section is to look
behind the form in which a transaction is structured tb
its substance. The substance is either that the respondents violated federal law, earned illegal income, attempted
to avoid taxation on the income by channeling it elsewhere, and were caught by the Commissioner; or, that
they did not violate federal law by soliciting sales of
insurance and that there is no legal bar to their receiving
the proceeds from their sales. In either case, the result
is the same, and respondents cannot prevail.
If respondents had actually received the proceeds and
transferred them to the insurance subsidiary, they would
still be free to make essentially the same argument that
they make in this case, i. e., they could argue that federal
law prohibited them from receiving the money; that
they violated federal law, but had no right to keep the
money; and that they should not be taxed on receipt of
funds which they could not legally keep.
To be consistent with the assignment-of-income cases,
Helvering v. Horst, supra, and Lucas v. Earl, supra, and
the line of cases that includes Rutkin v. United States,
supra, and James v. United States, supra, the Court
would have to reject this argument. Yet, I maintain that this is just what the taxpayer is arguing here.
The Commissioner has determined that in reality the
respondents have earned income, and he has taxed it
under § 482. To reject his position is to give undue
weight to the absence of technical temporary possession
of money and some abstract concept of a "right" to receive it. I had thought that this kind of technical reasoning was rejected in James v. United States, supra,
when the Court overruled Commissioner v. Wilcox, 327
U. S. 404 (1946).

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH
394

MARSHALL,

417

J., dissenting

Finally, even if there is some mysterious reason why
the banking laws should be read in the manner suggested
by respondents, there is still another reason why they
should not prevail. The fact would remain that they
consciously chose to perform services in order that their
2
parent holding company would reap financial rewards.
Certainly, there is nothing in the federal banking laws
that required the performance of these services. In
the context of a complex corporate structure ministered
by one large holding company, the purposes of § 482 are
best served by permitting the Commissioner to allocate
income to the company that earns it, rather than to the
company that receives it. Again, we must remember
that this is not a case of unrelated private individuals or
independent corporations where there might be some
danger that in allocating income to the person who generated but did not receive it, the Commissioner would
render that person financially unable to pay his taxes.
This case involves one large interrelated system. It
would be total fiction to assume that the holding company
would leave its subsidiaries in a financial bind. Hence,
there is no good reason to bar the Commissioner from
taxing respondents on the money that they earn.8
In my view, the Commissioner has done exactly what
§ 482 requires him to do in this case. Accordingly, I
2While

the premiums from the insurance policies were not paid
directly to the parent, there can be no doubt that the parent benefited from the financial success of its subsidiaries.
3 We know that nontax statutes do not normally determine the tax
consequences of a particular transaction. There is no inherent inconsistency in reading the banking legislatioi as making the receipt
of insurance premiums illegal, and, at the same time, reading the
Internal Revenue Code as allowing the Commissioner to allocate the
income from the sale of insurance policies to the party actually
earning it, so long as the income is received by the corporation controlling that party.

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
BLACKMUN, J., dissenting

405 U. S.

would reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals and
would remand the case with a direction that judgment
be entered for the petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

WHITE joins, dissenting.

As I read the Court's opinion, I gain the impression
that it chooses to link legality with taxability or, to put
it better oppositely, that it ties illegality to receive with
inability to tax. I find in the Internal Revenue Code
no authority for the concoction of a restrictive connection
of that kind. Because I think that the Comniissioner's
allocation of income here, under the auspices of §482 of
the 1954 Code, and in the light of the established facts,
was proper, I dissent.
1. Section 4821 surely contemplates taxation of income
without formal receipt of that income. That, indeed, is
the scope and purport of the statute. It is directed at
income distortion by a controlling interest among two or
more of the controlled entities. I, therefore, am not convinced that the fact the income in question here did not
flow through the Banks at any time-because it was
deemed proscribed by the 1916 Act (if the pertinent
portion thereof, 39 Stat. 753, is still in effect, a proposition
which may not be free from doubt), and because the
"Section 482 is not new. It appeared as § 45 of the Revenue
Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 806, and has predecessors in § 240 (f) of the
Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 46, and in § 240 (d) of the Revenue
Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 288.
2

The revivers of the United States Code in 1952 omitted the
section because of the possibility of its having been repealed by its
omission from the amendment and re-enactment in 1918 of § 5202
of the Revised Statutes by § 20 of the War Finance Corporation

Act, 40 Stat. 512. Compare administrative ruling No. 7110 of the
Comptroller of the Currency with the Comptroller's current regulations, 12 CFR §§ 2.1-2.5. See Saxon v. Georgia Association of Independent Insurance Agents, Inc., 399 F. 2d 1010 (CA5 1968); Corn-

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 419
394

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

controlling interest routed it elsewhere-serves, in and
of itself, to deny the efficacy of the statute.
2. Section 482 has a double purpose and a double target. It authorizes the Secretary or his delegate, that is,
the Commissioner, to allocate whenever. he determines it
necessary so to do in order (a) "to prevent evasion of
taxes" or (b) "clearly to reflect the income of any" of
the controlled entities. The use of the statute, therefore,
is not restricted to the intentional tax evasion. No evasion of tax, in the criminal sense, by these Banks is
specifically suggested or at issue here. And I do not subscribe to my Brother MARSHALL'S intimation that what
the Banks were doing was otherwise illegal. The second
alternative of the statute, however, is directed at something other than tax evasion or illegality. It is concerned with the proper reflection of income (or deductions, credits, or allowances) so as to place the controlled
taxpayer on a tax parity with the uncontrolled taxpayer.
It is designed to produce for tax purposes, and to recognize, economic realities and to have the tax consequences
follow those realities and not some structured nonreality. This is the aspect of the statute with which
the Commissioner and these respondents are here concerned. Thus, legality and illegality seem to me to be
beside the point.
3. From this it follows that the Court's repetitive
emphasis on the missing § 92 and the inability of these
Banks legally to receive the insurance commissions give
undue emphasis to the first alternative of § 482, and
seem almost wholly to ignore the second.
4. The purpose of the controlling interest in structuring the several entities it controls is apparent and can(CA4 1966); Hackley, Our Baffling Banking System, pt. 2, 52 Va. L. Rev. 771, 777779 (1966). United States Code Annotated carries the provision
as § 92 of its Title 12.
missioner v. Morris Trust, 367 F. 2d 794, 795

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

405 U. S.

not be concealed. The Banks were wholly owned subsidiaries of Holding Company. The Tax Court foundand the respondents concede '-that one of the purposes
of the Banks' arranging for borrowers' credit life insurance 4 was "to provide an additional source of incomepart of the premiums from the insurance-to Holding
Company or its subsidiaries." T. C. Memo 1967-256,
p. 67-1453. For me, that means to provide an additional source of income for the group irrespective of
the particular pocket into which that income might
initially be routed.
5. What, then, happened? The chronology is revealing:
(a) Initially, that is, until 1954, the Banks solicited
the insurance, charged the premium, and forwarded it to
Management Company. The latter in turn sent it on to
the then-favored independent insurance carrier. That
carrier paid the recognized sales commission to Smith,
Management Company's wholly owned insurance agency."
(b) In 1954 the American National-Security Life arrangement appeared on the scene. This was prompted
by the blossoming of the credit insurance business as a
profitable undertaking. Obviously, it was a matter of
concern to established and independent insurance companies when they came to realize that lending institutions
were in a position to form their own insurance affiliates
3Brief for Respondents
4 1 use this and other

2.
terms as they have been defined in the

Court's opinion.
Despite this payment to Smith, it was not Smith, but Management Company, that reported the commissions as taxable income.
This reveals the fluidity of control of the structure. Of course, the
fact that the Commissioner did not allocate the premiums to the
Banks during this period is of small, if any, significance, for, as
the Court points out, ante, at 397-398, n. 2, the then tax rate for
each of the corporate entities was likely the same. The Government thus would lose nothing by not allocating.

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH

394

BLACKMUN,

421

J., dissenting

to tap and drain away profits that the independents
theretofore had received without hindrance. Security
Life was just such an emerging insurance affiliate of
Holding Company and of Management Company. But
American National, by its proposal to Management Company, as well as to other financial institutions, salvaged
15% of the premium dollar in return for actuarial and
accounting services. Security Life never did develop into
a full-line insurance company; it remained essentially a
re-insurer and yet it accomplished the purpose for which
it was given life. Now no sales commissions needed to
be paid. In fact, none were paid; they just disappeared,
afid that erstwhile cost remained as profit in Security
Life. But the Banks, as before, solicited their borrowing customers to purchase credit life insur ance.
(c) The Life Insurance Company Tax Act for 1955
was enacted, 70 Stat. 36, followed by the Life Insurance
Company Income Tax Act of 1959, 73 Stat. 112. These
statutes served to accord preferential tax treatment-as
compared to ordinary corporations-to life insurance
companies. See United States v. Atlas Life Ins. Co.,
381 U. S. 233 (1965). This happily coincided, of course,
with Security Life's development.
6. Only the Banks were the responsible force behind
the premium income. No one else was. Certainly American National was not. Certainly Security Life was not.
Smith was out of the picture. And if it can be said that
Management Company or Holding Company contributed
a part, they did so only secondarily. It was the participating bank that explained to the borrower the function and availability of the insurance; that gave the
customer the application form; that examined the application; that prepared the certificate of insurance;
that collected the premium or added it to the loan; and
that sent the form and the premium to Management
Company. It was the participating bank that th]s

OCTOBER TERM, 1971

BLACKMUN, J., dissenting

405 U. S.

offered and sold on behalf of a life insurance company
under common control with the bank. It was the participating bank, in short, that did what was necessary,
and all that was necessary, to sell the insurance. Clearly,
services were rendered by that bank on behalf of its commonly controlled affiliate. Just as clearly, those services
would have been compensated had the corporations been
dealing with each other at arm's length.
7. It is no answer to say that generation of income
does not necessarily lead to taxation of the generator;
here the earnings themselves stayed within the corporate
structure dominated by Holding Company, and did not
pass elsewhere with consequent tax impact elsewhere.
I do not so easily differentiate, as does the Court, ante,
at 401 n. 11, between referral outside the affiliated structure and referral conveniently within that structure to a
re-insurance company that could be taxed on the premium income (unreduced by commissions) at advantageous tax rates.
8. That the selling effort of the Banks seems comparatively minimal and that the processing cost seems comparatively negligible are, I believe, beside the point and
quite irrelevant. No one else devoted effort or incurred
cost of any significance whatsoever. Taxability has
never depended on approximating expenses to receipts;
in fact, the less the cost, the greater the net income and
the greater the tax burden.
9. Neither is it an answer to say that before the
organization of Security Life the Banks did not receive
income from credit insurance premiums and that, therefore, the emergence of Security Life did not change the
situation so far as the Banks were concerned. For
me, it very much changed the situation, for the controlled structure took over the insurance business and
the premiums thenceforth were nestled within that
structure.

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 423
394

BACKMuN, J., dissenting

10. Taxability, despite nonreceipt, is common in our
tax law. It is present in a variety of contexts. For
example, one has been held taxable, under the applicable statute's general definition of gross income, for
income or earnings assigned to another and never received; I for the income from bond coupons, maturing
in the future, assigned to another and never received;
for dividends paid to the shareholders of a transferor
corporation pursuant to a lease with no defeasance
clause; I for another's income from a short-term trust
(until § 673, with its 10year measure, came into the tax
structure with the 1954 Code); for the employer's paynrent of income taxes on his employees' compensation; 10
and for an irrevocable trust's income used to pay insurance premiums on the settlor's life, 1 or,. in the absence
of particular state law provisions, distributed to a. divorced wife in lieu of alimony 12 (until § 215 came into
the Code with the Revenue Act of 1942, 56 Stat. 817).
11. In the area of federal estate taxation an obvious
parallel is found in the many instances of includability
in the decedent's gross estate of property not owned or
possessed by the decedent at his death. The Code itself
provides for the inclusion of transfers theretofore effec6

Harrison v. Schaffner, 312 U. S. 579 (1941); Helvering v.
Eubank, 311 U. S. 122 (1940); Burnet v. Leininger, 285 U. S. 136
(1932); Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111 (1930). Cf. Hoeper v. Tax
Comm'n, 284 U. S. 206 (1931); Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5
(1937). See Commissioner v. Sunnen, 333 U.S. 591,604-610 (1948);
United States v. Mitchell, 403 U. S. 190 (1971).
7Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112 (1940).
8 United States v. Joliet & Chicago R. Co., 315 U. S. 44 (1942).
9
Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331 (1940).
10 Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716 (1929).
11 Burnet v. Wells, 289 U. S. 670 (1933).
12 Douglas v. Willcuts, 296 U. S. 1 (1935); Helvering v. Fitch,
309 U. S. 149 (1940); see Commissioner V. Lester, 366 U. S. 299
(1961).

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

405 U. S.

tively made, but in contemplation of death, 26 U. S. C.
§ 2035; of a variety of inter vivos irrevocable transfers
in trust, 26 U. S. C. §§ 2036-2038; and of joint interests,
26 U. S. C. § 2040, in all of which situations the ownership interest at death was nonexistent br less than full.
12. This demonstrates for me that there have been
and are many examples of taxation of income without
that "complete dominion" over it that the Court now
finds so necessary. The quotation, cited by the Court,
from Mr. Justice Holmes' opinion in Corliss v. Bowers,
281 U. S. 376, 378 (1930), consists of language used to
support the taxation of income; it is not language, as
the Court would make it out to be, that supported
the nontaxation of income. The Justice's posture-and
the Court's-in that case surely looks as much, and
perhaps more, to includability here than it does to
excludability."8
13. The Court shrinks from extending the possibility
of taxation-without-receipt to the situation where the
taxpayer is "prohibited from receiving" the income by
another statute. It states that no decision of the Court
has as yet gone that far. It is equally true that no
decision of the Court has refrained from. going that far.
But the net income for 1924 was paid over to the
petitioner's wife and the petitioner's argument is that however it
might have been in different circumstances the income never was his
and he cannot be taxed for it. The legal estate was in the trustee
and the equitable interest in the wife.
"But taxation is not so much concerned with the refinements of
title as it is with actual command over the property taxed-the
131"...

actual benefit for which the tax is paid. . .

."

281 U. S., at 377-378.

In another case Mr. Justice Holmes said:
"There is no doubt that the statute could tax salaries to those
who earned them and provide that the tax could not be escaped
by anticipatory arrangements and contracts however skillfully devised to prevent the salary when paid from vesting even for a
second in the man who earned it ...

111, 114-115 (1930).

"

Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S.

COMMISSIONER v. FIRST SECURITY BANK OF UTAH 425
394

BLACKMUN,

J., dissenting

The Seventh Circuit has not been concerned with the
existence of a prohibitory regulating statute, Local Finance Corp. v. Commissioner, 407 F. 2d 629 (1969), cert.
denied, 396 U. S. 956, and this Court should not be. The
Congress, in enacting the Life Insurance Company Tax
Act for 1955, was of the opinion that § 482 was available
to the Commissioner with respect to insurance companies that are captives of "finance companies." H. R.
Rep. No. 1098, 84th Cong., 1st Sess., 7; S. Rep. No.
1571, 84th Cong., 2d Sess., 8.1'
14. The Court's reluctance is reminiscent of the "claim
of right" doctrine, which found expression in the unfortunate and short-lived (15 years) decision in Commissioner v. Wilcox, 327 U. S. 404 (1946), to the effect
that embezzled income was not taxable to the embezzler.
Wilcox, of course, stood in sharp contrast to Rutkin v.
United States, 343 U. S. 130 (1952), where money obtained by extortion was held to be taxable income to
the extortioner; it was overruled, at last, in James v.
United States, 366 U. S. 213 (1961). In Wilcox, as here,
the Court wrestled with the concept and imaginary barrier of illegality, was impressed by it, and, as in this case,
concluded that illegality and taxability did not mix and
could not be linked. That doctrine encountered resistance in Rutkin and in James, and was rightly rendered
an aberration by those later decisions.
1"There
is a potential abuse situation in the case of the so-called
captive insurance companies. It may be possible for a finance
company, for example, to establish a subsidiary life insurance company that will issue life insurance policies in connection with the
business of the parent. If the subsidiary charges excessive premium
on this business, a portion of the income of the parent company
can be diverted to the life insurance company. It is believed that
section 482 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (relating to allocation of income and deductions among related taxpayers) provides
the Secretary of the Treasury ample regulative authority to deal
with this problem."

OCTOBER TERM, 1971
BIACKMUN,

J., dissenting

405 U.S.

15. I doubt if there is much comfort for the Court
in L. E. Shunk Latex Products,Inc., 18 T. C. 940 (1952),
for there. the significant fact was that the taxpayer could
not have raised its price even to a noncontrolled
distributor.
In conclusion, I note that the Court of Appeals remanded Management Company's case to the Tax Court
for consideration of the § 482 allocation, alternatively
proposed, to that corporation. With this I must be content. At least Management Company is .not a national
bank, and the barrier that the Court has found in the
missing § 92 supposedly does not provide a protective
coating for Management Company or, for that matter,
for Holding Company.
And so it is. The result of today's decision may not
be too important, for it affects only a few taxpayers. It
seems to me, however, that it effectively dulls one edge
of what has been a sharp two-edged tool fashioned and
bestowed by the Congress upon the Internal Revenue
Service for the effective enforcement of our federal tax
laws.

