CASES

ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

WHITE-SMITH

MUSIC PUBLISHING
APOLLO COMPANY.

COMPANY

v.

APPEALS FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 110, 11.

Argued January 16, 17, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

While this court is not bound under the doctrine of stare decisis by the decisions of lower Federal courts which have not been reviewed by this
court, as to the construction of a Federal statute, or by the decisions of
the highest courts of foreign countries construing similar statutes of those
countries, where all of such decisions. express the same views on the subject involved, the omission of Congress, when subsequently amending
the statute, to specifically legislate concerning that subject may be regarded by this court as an acquiescence by Congress in the judicial construction so given to the statute.
While the United States is not a party to the Berne Copyright Convention
of 1886, this court will hesitate to construe the copyright act as amended
March 3, 1891, in such manner that foreign authors and composers can
obtain advantages in this country which, according to that convention,
are denied to our citizens abroad.
What is included within the protection of the copyright statute depends
upon the construction of the statute itself, as the protection given to
copyright in this country is wholly statutory.
The amendment of § 4966, Rev. Stat., by the act of January 6,1 897, 29
Stat. 481, providing penalties for infringements of copyrighted dramatic
or musical compositions, did not enlarge the "neaning of previous and
unamended sections.
A "copy" of a musical composition within the meaning of the copyright

VOL. ccrx-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

209 U. S.

statute is a written or printed record of it in intelligible notation and this
does not include perforated rolls which when duly applied and properly
operated in connection with musical instruments to which they are.
adapted produce the same musical tones as are represented by the signs
and figures on the copy in staff notation of the composition filed by the
composer for copyright.
The existing copyright statute has not provided for the intellectual conception, even though meritorious, apart from the thing produced; but
has provided for the making and filing of a tangible thing against the
duplication whereof it has protected the composer.
Considerations of the hardships of those whose published productions are
not protected by the copyright properly address themselves to Congress
and not to the courts.
147 Fed. Rep. 226, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. 'Livingston Gifford for appellant:
Appellant's interpretation is in accord, with the policy of the
law and appellee's interpretation is not. The policy of the law
is to protect the author against every form of piracy without
distinction, and the piracy of a musical composition by reproducing and selling it in the form of perforated music is just as
culpable as in any other form.
The Constitution purports to secure to authors "the exclusive
right to their respective writings," and it is obviously not compatible with this to protect them only against the sale of their
writings in a form which requires no assistance of mechanism
for reading.
As this interpretation is the only one which will carry out its
policy, the statute should certainly be so interpreted, unless
such interpretation is inconsistent with its terms or with the
terms of the Constitution.
Article I, § 8 of the Constitution, as interpreted by the decisions, is broad enough to include perforated music.
See the copyright law. in which Congress has included as
writings (§ 4952), books, maps, charts, dramatic or musical
compositions, engravings, etc. In principle we ask for no
broader interpretation here. And see also Lithograph Co. v.
Sarony, 111 U. S. 53; Holmes v. Hurst, 174 U. S. 86; Bleistein

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v: APOLLO CO.
209 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

v. Donaldson Co., 188 U. S. 239; American Mutoscope Co. v.
Edison Co., 137 Fed. Rep.. 262.
The mutuality of the contract which the Constitution evidently contemplates between the Government, on the one hand,
and the author or inventor on the other, also leads to the same
conclusion.
If an author has among his writings a musical composition,
the only possible way of "securing" to him the "exclusive
right" thereto is by giving him the monopoly of this musical
composition, no matter in what form it may be represented;
otherwise, he gets only a partial exclusive right thereto. No
composer can be truly said to have "the exclusive right" to
his musical composition writings secured to him so long as
others have the right to publish, and sell them without his consent, in the form of perforated music.
"Musical composition," the term of the statute under which
this case comes, is broad enough to include perforated music.
As applicable to this case, the right conferred by the statute
is the "sole liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing, completing, copying, executing, finishing and vending" the "musical composition." The undeniable policy of the law is to cover
all forms of piracy.
This court has substantially decided that the subject of
property in a copyrighted musical composition is the order
of the notes in the author's composition, by adopting in
Holmes v. Hurst, 174 U. S. 86, Mr. Justice Erle's definition of
the subject of property. in a book or literary composition as.
being "the order of the words in the author's composition."
And the same thing must also be true as to the notes of a musical composition. The qnly thing that has to be copied to constitute a copy of the copyright property is the order in which
the notes were set down.
Appellee's witnesses admit that in making the infringing
perforated music they copy the order of the notes.
It is immaterial that in the year 1831, when the term "musical composition" was first placed in the copyright statute the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

209 U. S.

perforated form of musical compositions -was not known. See
Edison v. Lubin, 122 Fed. Rep. 240, holding that while the
advance in the art of photography has resulted in a different
type of photograph, yet it is none the less a photograph.
So, as to music, while the perforated notation is a different
type of notation, yet it is none the less a "musical composition;"
none the less a perfect record, and none the less a "writing."
Where the order of the notes or words is copied, infringement
of literary or musical compositions is not avoided by variations in other respects. Jollie v. Jacques, 1 Blatch. 625; Blume
v. Spear, 30 Fed. Rep. 631; Daly v. Palmer, 6 Blatch. 266;
Nicols v. Pitman, 26 Ch. Div. 374; Edison v. Lubin, 122 Fed.
Rep. 240; Fishel v. Leuckel, 53 Fed. Rep. 499; Falk v. Howell,
37 Fed. Rep. 202; Falk v. Donaldson, 57 Fed. Rep. 32; Turner
v. Robinson, 10 Ir. Ch. 121, 510; Drone on Copyright, 385;
Scrutton on Copyright, ed. 1903, 135, note.
The meaning of "musical composition" in § 4952, must be
read .in the light of its manifest meaning in § 4966 wherein it
is the subject of protection against public performance.
The prohibition of the public performance of a copyrighted
"musical composition" is the prohibition of the public reproduction of that order or succession of notes which constitutes
the composition. It is the musical composition that is publicly
performed, and not a sheet of music.
Public performance is prohibited, whether or not any notation or reccird be used. Aid it cannot be questioned that a performance in public of a musical composition upon an Aeolian
organ or pianola, by means of perforated music, would be as
much a public performance of a musical composition as if it
had been played in public from a printed sheet of music in
staff notation, and as such would be equally within the condemnation of the statute, provided the musical composition had
been copyrighted. One who, like the appellee, sells the musical
composition is a contributory infringer with the infringer Under
§ 4952 who plays it in public.
Readability by the person without mechanical assistance is

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
209 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

not made a test of copyrightability or of infringement by the
statute. So long as it can be read or reproduced in any way, it
makes no difference what assistance the person calls in from
means known in the art.
Whether a musical composition, in addition to the musical
function performed by the order of its notes, does, or does not,
perform also a mechanical function is not made a test of copyrightability or of infringement by the statute.
It is impossible to say that the order of the perforated notes
is the mere adjunct of a valve mechanism, because the valve
mechanism would work with the perforations in -whatever
order. It is not the machine that puts or requires the perforations in this order,, but the appellee.
There is no controlling authority opposed to complainant's
contention. The two decisions in this country relied upon by
the appellee are neither binding upon this court nor apposite
to the facts disclosed by this record. Kennedy v. McTammany, 33 Fed. Rep. 584, and Stern v. Rosey, 17 App. D. C. 562,
discussed and distinguished. The English decision of Boosey
v. Whight, L. R. 1900, 1 Ch. 122, was based upon the narrow
wording of the English statute; and in view of the amendment
of that statute in 1902, can no longer be regarded as authority,
even in England.
Mr. Charles S. Burton and Mr. John J. O'Connell for appellee:
Copyright is strictly statutory in the United States. If a
common law right ever existed it was taken away by the statute
of Anne, and that statute and those amendatory of it are now.
in England the only source of an author's right. There never
existed any common law right of copyright in the United States.
Copyright in this country is the creature of statute pure and
simple. Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591, see p. 664 quotation;
Banks v. Manchester, 128 U. S. 244; Thompson v. Hubbard,
131 U. S. 123.
Existing by virtue of statute only, the limitations of copyright are those which the statute fixes, or, more accurately

OCTOBER TERM. 1907.
Argument for Appellee.

209 U. S.

speaking, its extent is only that which the statute gives. Ewer
v. Coxe, Fed. Cases 4,584; S. C., 4 Wash. C. C. 487; Holmes v.
Hurst, 174 U. S. 82; Perrisv. Hexamer, 99 U. S. 674.
The statutes creating and covering copyright must be strictly
construed in all respects. Banks v. Manchester, 128 U. S.
.244; Bolles v. Outing Co., 175 U. S. 268.
Departure from this rule of strict construction cannot be
justified on the ground of extending the statute by analogy
from things expressed, to things thought to be similar; or from
rights named, and defined in respect to named subjects, to
analogous rights in respect to subjects thought to be analogous.
As the legislature alone created the right and set its bounds
in the first instance, so the legislature may, as civilization
and art develop and the considerations governing legislative
discretion change, extend or contract those bounds from year
to year and from generation to generation, but as the creation
of the right waited, so the extension, as much as its contraction, must wait upon the legislative act.
If the invention of automatic musical instruments and the
graphophone have opened new fields and methods for the exploitation, promulgation, or what may be called "publication"
of musical compositions which did not exist or were not in contemplation of the legislature when the present statutes were
enacted, it is not for the courts to enter the domain of legislation to weigh the considerations either of equity or expediency
which might move for or against such proposed extensions.
All arguments directed to the supposed reasonableness of
treating copyright as covering automatic means of audible
reproduction of speech and music are utterly irrelevant and
beside the question. See Osgood v. Aloe Instrument Co., 69
Fed. Rep. 291; Higgins v. Keuffel, 140 U. S. 428; Werckmeister
v. American Lithograph Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 360; Tompkins v.
Rankin, Fed. Cases, 14,090; Thompson v. Hubbard, 131 U. S.
123; Littleton v. Oliver Ditson Co., 62 Fed. Rep. 597, affirmed,
67 Fed. Rep. 905; Wood v. Abbott, Fed. Cases, 17,938; Hills v.
Austrich, 120 Fed. Rep. 862.

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
209 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

Musical compositions mentioned as the subject of copyright
are tangible and legible embodiments of the intellectual product
of the musician, and not the intangible intellectual product
itself.
"Copies" which infringe a musical copyright must be tangible embodiments of the intellectual product of the composer in
the same sense and for the same purpose as tangible embodiment which constitutes the copyrighted "musical composition."
The primary use and adaptation of the thing determines its
copyrightability or infringement of copyright. Intention as
to use is material and may be controlling.
Things intended for mechanical function-for use in themselves-will not infringe copyright, and are not copyrightable
merely because of incidentally being able to perform some
part of the function of things copyrightable. -Baker v. Selden,
101 U. S. 99; Amberg File Co. v. Shea, 82 Fed. Rep. 314, aff'g
78 Fed. Rep. 429; Rosenbach v. Dreyfuss, 2 Fed. Rep. 217.
The protection designed to be afforded to the composer by
copyright of a musical composition is only the monopoly of the
multiplication and selling of copies, and this applies to musical
compositions as it does to all other subjects of copyright.
As to this definition of the monopoly see Stephens v. Cady, 14
How. 529; Stowe v. Thomas, Fed. Cases, 13,514; Lawrence v.
Dana, Fed. Cases, 8,136; Perris v. Hexamer, 99 U. S. 674.
That perforated sheets and other mechanical means of automatically producing music audibly are not infringements of
copyrights upon the musical compositions which are thus
audibly reproduced, has been the conclusion of every court of
England and America before which this question has ever come
for decision. Stern v. Rosey, 17 App. D. C. 562; Kennedy v.
.McTammany, 33 Fed. Rep. 584; Boosey v. Whight, 15 L. T.
R. 322 (1899); 1 Ch. 836 (1899); 80 L. T. R. (N. S.) 561.
These prior decisions have established a rule of property and
of business, and should be sustained under the doctrine of
stare decisis, unless greater injury would result from sustaining
than from reversing them. Every enactment of Congress is

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

properly interpreted by reference to established public, policy
and then known existing conditions..
The existence at the time of the enactment of the United
States copyright law of 1891, of the Berne convention of 1886
compels the conclusion that said law of 1891 was not intended
by Congress to subject perforated rolls to copyright.
By leave of court, the following briefs were filed in these
cases on behalf Of parties interested in the decision:
By Mr. Nathan Burkan for Victor Herbert sustaining the
contentions of the appellant.
By Mr. Albert H. Walker for the Connorized Music Company; by Mr. George W. Pound for the De Kleist Musical Instrument Manufacturing Company and the Rudolph-Wurlitzer
Company, sustaining the contentions of the appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases may be considered together. They are appeals
from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (147 Fed. Rep. 226), affirming the decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
'New York, rendered August 4, 1905 (139 Fed.. Rep. 427), dismissing the bills of the complainant (now appellant) for Want
of equity. Motions have been made to dismiss the appeals, and
a petition for writ of certiorari has been filed by appellant.
In. view of the nature of the cases the Writ of certiorari is
granted, the record on the appeals to stand as a return to the
writ. Montana Mining Co. v. St. Louis Mining Co., 204 U. S.
204..
The actions were brought to restrain infringement of the
copyrights of two certain musical compositions, published in
the form of sheet music, entitled, respectively, "Little Cotton
Dolly" and "Kentucky Babe." The appellee, defendant below, is engaged in the sale of piano players and player pianos
known as the "Apollo," and of perforated rolls of music used

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in connection therewith. The appellant, as assignee of Adam
Geibel, the composer, alleged compliance with the copyright
act, and that a copyright was duly obtained by it on or about
March 17, 1897. The answer was general in its nature, and
upon the testimony adduced a decree was rendered, as stated,
in favor of the Apollo Company, defendant below, appellee
here.
The action was brought under the provisions of the copyright act, § 4952 (3 U. S. Comp. Stat. Sup. 1907, p. 1021), giving to the author, inventor, designer or proprietor of any book,
map, chart, dramatic or musical composition the sole liberty
of printing, reprinting, publishing, completing, copying, executing, finishing and vending the same. The Circuit Courts of
the United States are given jurisdiction unaer §4970 (3 U. S.
Comp. Stat. 3416) to grant injunctions according to the course
and principles of courts of equity in copyright cases. The
appellee is the manufacturer of certain musical instruments
adapted to be used with perforated rolls. The testimony discloses that certain of these rolls, used in connection with such
instruments, and being connected with the mechanism to which
they apply, reproduce in sound the melody recorded in the two
pieces of music copyrighted by the appellant.
The manufacture of such instruments and the use of such
musical rolls has developed rapidly in recent years in this
country and abroad. The record discloses that in the year
1902 from seventy to seventy-five thousand of such instruments were in use in the United States, and that from one
million to one million and a half of such perforated musical
rolls, to be. more fully described hereafter, were made in this
country in that year.
It is evident that the question involved in the use of such
rolls is one of very considerable importance, involving large
property interests, and closely touching the rights of composers and music publishers. The case was argued with force
and ability, orally and upon elaborate briefs.
Without entering into a detailed discussion of the mechanical

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

construction of such instruments and rolls, it is enough to say
that they are what has become familiar to the public in the
form of mechanical attachments to pianos, such as the pianola,
and the musical rolls consist of perforated sheets, which are
passed over ducts connected with the operating partg of the
mechanism in sueh manner that the same are kept sealed until,
by means of perforations in the rolls, air pressure is admitted
to the ducts which operate the pneumatic devices to sound the
notes. This is done with the aid of an operator, upon whose
skill and experience the success of the rendition largely depends.
As the roll is drawn over the tracker board the notes-are sounded
as the perforations admit the atmospheric pressure, the perforations having been so arranged that the effect is to produce
the melody or tune for which the roll has been cut.
Speaking in a general way, it may be said that these rolls are
made in three ways. First. With the score or staff notation before him the arranger, with the aid of a rule or guide and a
graduated schedule, marks the position and size of the perforations on a sheet of paper to correspond to the order of notes in
the composition. The marked sheet is then passed. into the
hands of an operator who cuts the apertures, by hand, in the
paper. This perforated sheet is inspected and 'corrected, 'and
when corrected is called "the original." This original is used
as a stencil and by passing ink r ollers over it a pattern is prepared. The stenciled perforations are then cut,,producing the
master or templet. The master is placed in the perforating
machine and reproductions thereof obtained, which are the
perforated rolls in question. Expression marks are separately
copied on the perforated music sheets by means of rubber'
stamps. Second. A perforatbd music roll made by another
manufacturer may be used from which to make a new record.
Third. By playing upon a piano to which is attached an automatic recording device producing a perforated matrix from
which a perforated !music roll may be produced.
It is evident, therefore, that persons skilled in the art can.
and by means
take such pieces of sheet music in staff notation,

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the proper instruments make drawings indicating the perforations, which are afterwards outlined and cut upon the rolls
in such wise as to reproduce, with the aid of the other mechanism, the music which is recorded in the copyrighted sheets.
The learned counsel for the parties to this action advance
opposing theories as to the nature and extent of the copyright
,given by statutory laws enacted by Congress for the protection
of copyright, and a determination of which is the true one will
go far to decide the rights of the parties in this case. On behalf of the appellant it is insisted that it is -the intention of the
copyright act to protect the intellectual conception which has
resulted in the compilation of notes which, when properly
played, produces the melody which is the real invention of the
composer. It is insisted that this is the thing which Congress
intended to protect, and that the protection covers all means
of expression of the order of notes which produce the air or
melody which the composer has invented.
Music, it is argued, is intended for the ear as writing is for
the eye, and that it is the intention of the copyright act to prevent the multiplication of every means of reproducing the
music of the composer to the ear.
On the other hand, it is contended that while it is true that
copyright statutes are intended to reward mental creations or
conceptions, that the extent of this protection is a matter of
statutory law, and that it has been extended only to the tangible results of mental conception, and that only the tangible
thing is dealt with by the law, and its multiplication or reproduction is all that is protected by the statute.
Before considering the construction of the statute as an independent question the appellee invokes the doctrine of stare
decisis in its favor, and it is its contention that in all the cases
in which this question has been up for judicial consideration it
has been held that such mechanical producers of musical tones
as are involved in this case have not been considered to be
within the protection of the copyright act; and that, if within
the power of Congress to extend'protection to such subjects,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

the uniform holdings have been that it is not intended to include them in the statutory protection given. While it may
be that the decisions have not been of that binding character
that would enable the appellee to claim the protection of the
doctrine of stare decisis to the extent of precluding further consideration of the question, it must be admitted that the decisions, so far as brought to our attention in the full discussion
had at the bar and upon the briefs, have been uniformly to the
effect that these perforated rolls operated in coniection with
mechanical devices for the production of music are not within
the copyright act. It was so held in Kennedy v. McTammany,
33 Fed. Rep. 584. The decision was written by Judge Colt in
the First Circuit; the case'was subsequently brought to this
court, where it was dismissed for failure to print the record.
145 U. S. 643. In that case the learned judge said:
"I cannot convince myself that these perforated sheets of
paper are copies of sheet music within the meaning of the copyright law. They are not made to be addressed to the eye as
sheet music, but they form a part of a machine. They are not
designed to be used for such purposes as sheet music, nor do
they in any sense occupy the same field as sheet music. They
are a mechanical invention made for the sole purpose of performing tunes mechanically upon a musical instrument."
Again the matter was given careful consideration in the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia in an opinion by Justice
Shepard (Steam v. Rosey, 17 App. D. C. 562), in which that
learned justice, speaking for the court, said:
"We cannot regard the reproduction, through the agency
of a phonograph, of the sounds of musical instruments playing the music composed -and published by the complainants,
as the copy or publication of the same within the meaning of
the act. The ordinary signification of the words 'copying,'
'publishing,' etc., cannot be stretched to include it.
"It is not pretended that the marking upon waxed cylinders
can be made out by the eye or that they can be utilized in any
other way than as parts of the mechanism of the phonograph.

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
209 .U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Conveying no meaning, then, to the eye of even an expert
musician and wholly incapable of use save in and as a part of
a machine specially adapted to make them give up the records
which they contain, these prepared waxed cylinders can neither
substitute the copyrighted sheets of music nor serve any purpose which is within their scope. In these respects there would
seem to be no substantial difference between them and the
metal cylinder of the old and familiar music box, and this,
though in use at and before the passage of the copyright act,
has not been regarded as infringing upon the copyrights of
authors and publishers."
The question came before the English courts in Boosey v.
Whight (1899, 1 Ch. 836; 80 L. T. R. 561), and it was there held
that these perforated rolls did not infringe the English copyright act protecting sheets of music. Upon appeal Lindley,
Master Of the Rolls, used this pertinent language (1900, 1 Ch.
122; 81 L. T. R. 265):
"The plaintiffs'are entitled to copyright in three sheets of
music. What does this mean? It means that they have the
exclusive right of printing or otherwise multiplying copies of
those sheets of music, i. e., of the bars, notes, and other printed
words and signs on these sheets. But the plaintiffs have no
exclusive right to the production of the sounds indicated by
or on those sheets of music; nor to the performance in private
of the music indicated by such sheets; nor to any mechanism
for the production of such sounds or music.
"The plaintiff's rights are not infringed except by an unauthorized copy of their sheets of music. We need not trouble
ourselves about authority; no question turning on the meaning
of that expression has to be considered in this case. The only
question we have to consider is whether the defendants have
copied the plaintiff's sheets of music.
"The defendants have taken those sheets of music and have
prepared from them sheets of paper with perforations in them,
and these perforated sheets, when put into and used with
properly constructed machines or instruments, will produce or

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

enable the machines or instruments to produce the music indicated on the plaintiff's sheets. In this sense the defendant's
perforated rolls have been copies from the plaintiff's sheets.
"But is this the kind of copying which is prohibited by the
copyright act; or rather is the perforated sheet made as above
mentioned a copy of the sheet of music from which it is made?
Is it a copy at all? Is it a copy within the meaning of the copyright act? A sheet of music is treated in the copyright act as
if it were a book or sheet of letter press. Any mode of copying such a thing, whether by printing, writing, photography, or
by some other method not yet invented, would no doubt be
copying. So, perhaps, might a perforated she'et of paper to
be sung or played from in the same way as sheets of mfisic are
sung or played from. But to play.an instrument from a sheet
of music which appears to the eye is one thing; to play an instrument with a perforated sheet which itself* forms part bf
the mechanism which produces the music is quite. another
thing."
Since these cases"were decided Congress.has repeatedly had
occasion to amend the copyright law. The English cases, the
decision of the District Court of Appeals, and Judge Colt's decision musthave been Well known to the members of Congress;
and although the manufacture of mechanical musical instruments had not grown to the-proportions which they have since
attained they were well known, and the omission of Congress
to specifically legislate concerning them might well be taken to.
be an acquiescence in the judicial construction given to the
copyright laws.
This country was not a party to the Berne convention of
1886, concerning international' copyiight,in wh"ich it was specifically provided:
"It is understood that the manufacture and sale of'instrunments serving to reproduce mechanically the airs of music
borrowed from the private domain are not considered as constituting musical infringement."
But the proceedings of this convention .were doubtless well

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
209 U. S.

Opinion'of the Court.

known to Congress. After the Berne convention the act of
March 3, 1891, was passed. Section 13 of that Act provides
(3 U. S. Comp. Stat. 3417):
"SEC. 13. That this act shall only apply to a citizen or subject of a foreign state or nation when such foreign state or nation permits to citizens of the United States of America the
benefits of copyright on substantially the same basis as to its
own citizens; and when such foreign state or nation is a party
to an international agreement which provides for reciprocity
in the granting of copyright, by the terms of which agreement
the United States of America may, at its pleasure, become a
party to such agreement. The existence of either of the conditions aforesaid shall be determined by the President of the
United States by proclamation made from time to time as the
purposes of this act may require."'
By proclamation of the President July 1, 1891, the benefit of
the act was given to the citizens of Belgium, France, British
possessions and Sweden, which countries permitted the citizens of the. United States to have the benefit of copyright, on
the same basis as the citizens of those countries. On April 30,
1892, the German Empire was included. On October 31, 1892,
a similar proclamation was made as to Italy. These countries
were all parties to the Berne convention.
It could not have been the intention of Congress to give to
foreign citizens and coriposers advantages in our country
which according to that convention were to be denied to our
citizens abroad.
In the last analysis this case turns upon the, construction of
a statute, for it is perfectly well settled that the protection
given to copyrights in this country is wholly statutory. Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet. 590; Banks v. Manchester, 128 U. S. 244,
253; Thompson v. Hubbard, 131 U. S. 123, 151; American
Tobacco Company v. Werckmeister, 207 U. S. 284.
Musical compositions have been the subject of copyright protection.since the statute of February 3, 1831, c. , 4 Stat. 436,
and laws have been passed including them since that time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

When we turn to the consideration of the act it seems evident
that Congress has dealt with the tangible. thing, a copy of
which is required to be filed with the Librarian of Congress, and
wherever the words are used (copy or copies) they seem to refer to the term in its ordinary sense.of indicating reproduction
or duplication of the original. Section 4956 (3 U. S. Comp.
Stat. 3407) provides that two copies of a book, map, chart or
musical composition, etc., shall be delivered at the office of the
Librarian of Congress. Notice of copyright must be inserted
in the several copies of every edition published, if a book, or if
a musical composition, etc., upon some visible portion thereof.
Section 4962, Copyright Act, 3 U. S. Comp. Stat.. 3411. Section 4965 (3 U. S. Comp. Stat. 3414) provides in part that
the infringer "shall forfeit every sheet thereof, and one dollar
for every sheet of the same found in his possession," etc., evidently referring to musical compositions in sheets. Throughout the act it is apparent that Congress has dealt with the concrete and not with an abstract right of property in ideas or
mental conceptions.
We cannot perceive that the amendment of § 4966 by the
act of January 6, 1897, c. 4, 29 Stat. 481 (3 U. S. Comp. Stat.
3415), providing a penalty for any person publicly performing
,or representing any dramatic or musical composition for which
a copyright has been obtained, can have the effect of enlarging
the meaning of the previous sections of the act which were
not changed by the amendment. The purpose of the amendment evidently was to put musical compositions on the footing of dramatic compositions so as to prohibit their public
performance. There is no complaint in this case of the public
performance of copyrighted music; nor is the question involved
whether the manufacturers of such perforated music rolls
when sold for use in public performance might be held as contributing infringers. This amendment was evidently passed
for the specific purpose referred to, and is entitled to little
consideratio-i in construing the meaning of the terms of the
act theretofore in force.

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

What is meant by a copy? We have already referred to the
common understanding of it as a reproduction or diiplication
of a thing. A definition vas given by Bailey, J., in West v.
Francis, 5 B. & A. 743, quoted with approval in Boosey v.
Whight, supra. He said: "A copy is that which comes so near
to the original as to give to every person seeing it the idea
created by the original."
Various definitions have been given by the experts called
in the case. The one which most commends itself to our judgment is perhaps as clear as can be made, and defines a copy of
a musical composition to be "a written or printed record of it
in intelligible notation." It may be true that in a broad sense
a mechanical instrument which reproduces a tune copies it;
-but this is a strained and artificial meaning. When the combination of musical sounds is reproduced to the ear it is the
original tune as conceived by the author which is heard. These
musical tones are not a copy which appeals to the eye. In no
sense can musical sounds which reach us through the sense of
hearing be said to be copies as that term is generally understood, and as we believe it was intended to be understood in
the statutes under consideration. A musical composition is
an intellectual creation which first exists in the mind of the
composer; he may play it for the first time upon an instrument. It is not susceptible of being copied until it has been
put in a form which others can see and read. The statute has
not provided for the protection of the intellectual conception
apart from the thing produced, however meritorious such conception may be, but has provided for the making and filing-of
a tangible thing, against the publication and duplication of
which it is the purpose of the statute to protect the composer.
Also it may be noted in this connection that if the broad
construction of publishing and copying contended for by the
appellants is to be given to this statute it would seem equally
applicable to the cylinder of a music box, with its mechanical
arrangement for the reproduction of melodious sounds, or the
record of the graphophone, or to the pipe organ operated by
VOL. ccix -2

18

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HOLMES, J., concurring.

209 U. S.

devices similar to those in use in the pianola. All these instruments were well known when these vaiious copyright acts
were passed. Can it be that it was the intention of Congress
to permit them to be held as infringements and suppressed by
injunctions?
After all, what is the perforated roll? The fact is clearly
eotablished in the testimony in this case that even those skilled
in the making of these rolls are unable to read them as musical
compositions, as those in staff notation are read by the performer. It is true that there is some testimony to the effect
that great skill and patience might enable the operator to read
his record as he could a piece of music written in staff notation.
But the weight of the testimony is eiphatically the other way,
and they are not intended to be read as an ordinary piece of
sheet music, which to those skilled in the art conveys, by read-*
ing, in playing or singing, definite impressions of the melody.
These perforated rolls are parts of a machine whioh, when.
duly applied and properly operated in connection with the
mechanism to which they are adapted, produce musical tones
in harmonious combination. But we cannot think that they
are copies within the meaning of the copyright act.
It may be true that the use of these perforated rolls, in the
absence of statutory protection, enables the manufacturers
thereof to enjoy: the use of musical compositions for which
they pay no value. But such considerations properly address
themselves to the legislative and not to the judicial branch of
the Government. As the act of Congress now stands we believe it does not include these records as copies or publications
of the copyrighted music involved in these cases.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, concurring specially.
In view of the facts and opinions in thii country and abroad
to which my brother Day has called attention I do not feel

WHITE-SMITH MUSIC CO. v. APOLLO CO.
209 U S.

HOLMES, J., concurring.

justified in dissenting from the judgment of the court, but the
result is to give to copyright less scope than its rational significance and the ground on which it is granted seem to me to
demand. Therefore I desire to add a few words to what he
has said.
The notion of property starts, I suppose, from confirmed
possession of a tangible object and consists in the fight to'
exclude others from interference with the more or less free
doing with it as one wills. But in copyright property has
reached a more abstract expression. The right to exclude is
not directed to an object in possession or owned, but is in
vacuo, so to speak. It restrains the spontaneity of men where
but for it there would be nothing of any kind to hinder their
doing as they saw fit. It is a prohibition of conduct remote
from the persons or tangibles of the party having the right.
It may be infringed a thousand miles from the owner and
without his ever becoming aware of the wrong. It is a right
which could not be recognized or endured for more than a
limited time, and therefore, I may remark in passing, it is one
which hardly can be conceived except as a product of statute,
as the authorities now agree.
The ground of this extraordinary right is that the person
to whom it is given has invented some new collocation of
visible or audible points,-of lines, colors, sounds; or words.
The restraint is directed against reproducing this collocation,
although but for the invention and the statute any one would
be free to combine the cohtents of the dictionary,.the elements
of the spectrum, or the notes of the gamut in any way that
he had the wit to devise. The restriction is confined to the
specific form, to the collocation devised, of course, but one
would expect that, if it was to be protected at all, that collocation would be protected according to what was its essence.
One would expect the protection to be coextensive not only
with the invention, .which, though free to all, only one had the
ability to achieve, but with the possibility of reproducing the
result which gives to the invention its meaning and worth. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Parties.

209 U. S.

musical composition is a rational collocation of sounds apart
from concepts, reduced to a tangible expression from which
the collocation can be reproduced either with or without . continuous human intervention. On principle anything that mechanically reproduces that collocation of sounds ought to be
held a copy, or if the statute is too narrow ought to be made
so by a further act, except so far as some extraneous consideration of policy may oppose. What license may be implied from
a sale of the copyrighted article is a different and harder question, but I leave it untouched, as license is not relied upon as
a ground for the judgment of the court.

DUN v. LUMBERMEN'S CREDIT ASSOCIATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No.-138..

Argued January 31, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Findings of fact in a suit in. equity made by both the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals will not be reversed by this court unless shown
to be clearly erroneous.
Where the lower courts have both found that the proportion of copyrighted
matter issued in a later publication, in this case a trade rating journal,
is insignificant compared with the volume of independently acquired information, an injunction should be refused and the owner of-the copyright remitted to a court of law to recover thedamages actually sustained.
144 Fed. Rep. 83, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John O'Connor and Mr. Charles K. Offield, with whom
Mr. Thomas M. Hoyne and Mr. Henry S. Towle were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. Fred H. Atwood and Mr. Charles 0. Loucks, with whom
Mr. Frank B. Pease was on the brief, for appellees.

