CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JERSEY CITY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY v.
JERSEY CITY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 203.

Argued April 15, 16, 1908.-Decided April 27, 1908.

"Jurisdiction"

as generally used in compacts between States has a more
limited sense than "sovereignty."
Under the agreement of 1833 between the States of New York and New
Jersey, 4 Stats. 708, while exclusive jurisdiction is given to New York
over the waters of the Hudson River west of the boundary line fixed by
the agre "'ent, the land under such waters remained subject to the
sovereignty of New Jersey and the jurisdiction given to New York over
the waters does not exclude the sovereign power of Ne* Jersey to tax
such land,-nor does an exercise of that power deprive the owner of the
land of his property without due process of law.
This court in construing a compact between States will hesitate to reach a
conclusion different from that reached by the highest courts of both States.
43 Vroom, 311, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank Bergen and Mr. William D. Edwards, with whom
Mr. George Holmes was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Prior to the execution of the compact New Jersey did not
have jurisdiction for any purpose over the land under the
waters of Hudson River and New York Bay and has no jurisdiction now below low-water mark of the river and bay or
over the property of the plaintiff in error except that conferred
by the compact. Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 371,
cited and approved in State v. Davis, 25 N. J. Law, 387; Handley's Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374; Shively v. Bowlby, 152
U. S. 1, 13; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 345; Henderson Bridge
Co. v. Henderson City, 173 U. S. 592.
By the compact exclusive jurisdiction was granted or conceded to New, York over the land of the plaintiff in error, sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

209 U. S.

ject only to the right of New Jersey to regulate fisheries in
the waters covering the same, provided navigation be not obstructed. It is admitted thatif any docks, wharves or improvements had been made on the property they would be
subject to taxation by New Jersey and (in this instance) as
part of the upland. There are, however, no improvements
on the property. State v. Babcock, 1 Vroom, 29; Kiernanv. The
Norma, 32 Fed. Rep. 411; Ferguson v. Ross, 126 N. Y. 459.
Authority to regulate fisheries in the waters covering the
property of the plaintiff in error does not involve the power
to tax it.
The word "jurisdiction" is used in the compact in its broad
common sense; that is, the power to govern-to exercise
executive, legislative and judicial authority. We think the
word was not used for the limited purpose of conferring merely
judicial authority or the right to exercise partial or indefinite
police power. The term "exclusive jurisdiction" is repeatedly
used, and whenever qualified the exceptions are specified as
definitely as possible. United States v. Cornell, 2 Mason, 60,
64, 91; Loughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317.
Taxation cannot be imposed except by authority of a government having jurisdiction over the property, assessed broad
enough to include the power to tax. Louisville & Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, 396; Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; D., L. & W. R. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Ops. Mass. Justices, 1 Mete.
580; United States v. Ames, 1 Woodbridge & Minot, 76, 80;
Mitchell v.. Tibbets, 17 Pick. 298, and United States v. Rice,
4 Wheat. 246.
New Jersey does not possess the power to tax the property
of the plaintiff in error. That State has no jurisdiction below
the low-water mark on its shore over Hudson River and New
York Bay south of Spuyten Duyvil creek except over wharves,
docks and improvements made and to be made thereon and
over vessels aground thereon or fastened to any dock or wharf
and the right to regulate fisheries; but even this measure of

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JERSEY CITY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

jurisdiction is diminished by the provision that such vessels
shall be subject to the quarantine or health laws and laws in
relation to passengers of the State of New York, and the
right to regulate fisheries cannot be exercised so as to hinder
or obstruct navigation.
Mr. Warren Dixon for defendants in error:
It is the settled law of the State of New Jersey that lands
under water within the state limits originally belonged to
the State, and that title by holders other than the State is
acquired from the State. The title to lands under water
within the present limits of the State were vested in the King
of Great Britain at and before the Revolution of 1776, and
became vested by the law of nations and by the right of conquest in the people of the then Colony and now State of New
Jersey by the War of Independence. Martin v. Waddell, 17
Peters, 367; Arnold v. Munday, 1 Halstead, 1; Stevens v. Railroad Co., 5 Vroom, 540; McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S.391.
The State of New Jersey was seized in fee simple absolute
in the soil covered by the waters of the Hudson River; and the
said lands, being within the boundaries of the said State, were
subject only to the paramount easement of navigation and to
the power of regulating such easement possessed by the United States.
The State of New Jersey has always claimed ownership of
the lands under water out to the middle of the Hudson River
and the Bay of New York.
By the law of nations where an arm of the sea or a river is
the boundary between two uations or states, if the original
right of jurisdiction is in neither, in the absence of any convention respecting it, each holds to the middle of the stream.
Angell on Tide-waters, p. 7; Vattel, B. 1, c. 22, ยง 266; Marten,
B. 4, c. 3, 4, 5.
Article 4 of the compact between the States of New York
and New Jersey, as construed by the courts, gives to New York
merely the power of executing its quarantine law and laws re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

lating to passengers as to vessels passing over the waters of
the Hudson River, and 'by necessary implication reserves to
New Jersey every other political or governmental jurisdiction
and dominion, and all prerogative, proprietary, and sovereign
rights in and over the waters of the Hudson River and the
lands lying thereunder and with the boundary fixed by the
agreement. People v. Central R. R. Co. of N. J., 42 N. Y. 283.
The action of the State of New Jersey in respect to its lands
lying under its navigable waters within its boundaries, through
various statutes passed by the legislAure, constitutes a continued exercise and assertion of its ownership.
(See "An
act for preserving oysters in the Province of New Jersey,"
passed in the fifth year of George I, Nevill's Laws, p. 86;
"An act for the preservation of oysters," passed January 26,
1789; "An act for the preservation of clams and oysters,"
passed June 9, 1820, p. 758; act of April 14, 1846, Rev. of
1847, p. 492, Rev. of 1877, p. 138; the wharf act, passed
March 18, 1851,.Rev. of 1877, p. 1240; the various riparian
statutes, Gcn. Stat. p. 2785.)
Lands under water formerly belonging to the State and
granted by the State to property owners are subject to tax-

ation. Morris Canal Co. v. Jersey City, 6 Vroom, 178; State
v. Pratt, 4 Zab. 108; State v. Sippl, 1 Dutcher, 530; and see
also 14 Vroom, 121; 17 Vroom, 341.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error prosecuted to review a judgment sustaining taxes levied by Jersey City upon lands of the plaintiff
in error lying between the middle of New York Bay and its low
water line on the New Jersey shore. It is argued that this land,
although it belonged to New Jersey until conveyed, is not within
its jurisdiction, and cannot be taxed under the authority of that
State. The Supreme Court upheld the tax, 41 Vroom, 81, and
its judgment was affirmed by the Court of Errors and.Appeals
for the reasons given by the Supreme Court. 43 Vroom, 311.

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JERSEY CITY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff in error contended that, as New Jersey had not
the right'to tax, the attempt was to deprive the prosecutor of
its property contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, and
brought the case here.
The decision depends upon the construction of an agreement
made between New Jersey and New York for the purpose of
settling the territorial limits and jurisdiction of the two States,
which previously had been the subject ofrdispute. This agreement was made by commissioners appointed for the purpose,
was confirmed by New York on February 5, 1834, Laws of
1834, ch. 8, P. 8, and by New Jersey on February 26, 1834,
Laws of 1834, p. 118, and was approved by Congress by act of
June 28, 1834, c. 126. 4 Stat. 708.. By Article I, the boundary
line between the two States from a point above the land in dispute is to be the middle of the Hudson River, of the Bay of
New York, of the water between Staten Island and New Jersey,
etc., "except as hereinafter otherwise particularly mentioned."
By Article II, New York retains its present jurisdiction over
Bedlow's and Ellis Islands, and exclusive jurisdiction over
certain other islands in the waters mentioned. By Article III,
New York is to have "exclusive jurisdiction of and over all
the waters of the Bay of New York, and of and over all the waters of the Hudson River lying west of Manhattan Island and
to the south" of the above mentioned point, "and of and over
the land covered by the said waters to the low water mark on
the westerly or New Jersey side thereof, subject to the following rights of property and jarisdiction of the State of New Jersey, that is to say: 1. The State of New Jersey shall have the
exclusive right of property in and to the land under water
lying west of the middle of the Bay of New York and west of
the middle of that part of the Hudson River which lies between
Manhattan Island and New Jersey." 2. New Jersey is to have
exclusive jurisdiction over wharves, docks and improvements
made or to be made on its shore and over vessels aground or
fastened there, subject to the quarantine and passenger laws
of New York. 3. New Jersey is to have the exclusive right of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

regulating the fisheries on the west of the middle of said waters,
providing that navigation be not obstructed or hindered.
The other articles need but brief mention. Article IV gives
New York "exclusive jurisdiction" over the waters of the Kill
van Kull "in respect to such quarantine laws and laws relating
to passengers &c. and for executing the same," and over
certain other waters. Article V gives New Jersey exclusive
jurisdiction over certain other waters subject to New York's
exclusive property and exclusive jurisdiction over wharves,
docks and improvements within certain limits, and exclusive
right of regulating the fisheries on its side, as above in the case
of New Jersey. Articles VI and VII provide for the service of
criminal and civil process of each State on the waters within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the other. Article VIII and last
calls for the confirmation of the agreement by the two States
and approval by the Congress of the United States.
Thus the land which has been taxed is on the New Jersey
side of the boundary line but under the "exclusive jurisdiction"
of New York, subject to the exclusive right of property in New
Jersey and the limited jurisdiction and authority conferred by
the paragraphs summed up. The question is which of these
provisions governs the right to tax. It appears to us plain
on the face of the agreement that the dominant fact is the establishment of the boundary line. The boundary line is the line
of sovereignty, and the establishment of it is not satisfied but
is contradicted by the suggestion that the agreement simply
gives the ownership of the land under water on the New Jersey
side to that State as a private owner of land lying within the
State of New York. On the contrary, the provision as to exclusive right of. property in the compact between States is to
be taken primarily to refer to ultimate sovereign rights, in
pursuance of the settlement of the territorial limits, which was
declared to be one purpose of the agreement, and is not to be
confined to the assertion and recognition of a private claim,
which, for all that appears, may have been inconsistent with
titles already accrued and which would lose significance the

CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JERSEY CITY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

moment that New Jersey sold the land. We repeat that boundary means sovereignty, since in modern times sovereignty is
mainly territorial, unless a different meaning clearly appears..
It is said that a different meaning does appear in the Article
(III) that gives New York exclusive jurisdiction over this land
as well as the water above it. But we agree with the state
courts that have been called on to construe that part of the
agreement that the purpose was to promote the interests of
commerce and navigation, not to take back the sovereignty
that otherwise was the consequence of Article I. This is the
view of the New York as well as of the New Jersey Court of
Errors and Appeals, and it would be a strange result if this
court should be driven to a different conclusion from that
reached.by both the parties concerned. Ferguson v. Ross, 126
N. Y. 459, 463; People v. Central R. R. Co., 42 N. Y. 283. This
opinion is confirmed -by the judgment delivered by one of the
commissioners in State v. Babcock, 1 Vroom, 29. Again, as was
pointed out by the state court, the often expressed purpose of
the appointment of the commissioner and of the agreement to
settle the territorial limits and jurisdiction must meah by
territorial limits sovereignty, and by jurisdiction something
less. It is suggested that jurisdiction is used in a broader sense
in the second article, and that may be true so far as concerns
Bedlow's and Ellis Islands. But the provision there is that
New York shall retain its "present" jurisdiction over them,
and Would seem on its face simply to be intended to preserve
the status quo ante, whatever it may be.
Throughout nearly all the articles- of the agreement, other
-than those in controversy, the word jurisdiction obviously is
used in a more limited sense. The word has occurred in other
cases where a river was a boundary, and in the Virginia Compact was held to mean, primarily at least, Jurisdictio,authority
to apply the law to the acts of men. Wedding v. Meyler, 192
U. S. 573, 584. Whether in the case at bar some power of
police regulation also was conferred upon New York, as held in
Ferguson v. Ross, need not be decided now. That New Jersey

OCTOBER TERM; 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

retained the sovereignty, however, seems to be assumed in
Article III (2), giving her exclusive jurisdiction over wharves,
docks and improvements, made and "to be made," on the
shore. This does not grant the right to make such improvements, but assumes it to exist. But the right would need the
permission of. New York, except on the hypothesis that New
Jersey had sovereign power over the place.
The conclusion reached has the very powerful sanction of
the conduct of the parties and of the existing condition of
things. See Moore v. McGuire, 205 U. S.214, 220. The decisions of the courts have been referred to. It was admitted at
the bar that the record of transfers of such lands was kept in
New Jersey, not in New York. New York never has attempted
to tax the land, while New Jersey has levied more or less similar
taxes for many years without dispute. See, e. g. State v. Collector of Jersey City, 4 Zabr. 108, 120; State v. Jersey City, 1
Dutcher, 530; State v. Jersey City, 6 Vroom, 178; S. C., 7 Vroom,
471. New Jersey, not New York, regulates the improvements
on the shore. Act of March 18, 1851, P. L. 1851, p. 335; Rev.
1877, p. 1240; Act of April 11, 1864, P. L. 1864, p. 681; March 31,
1869, P. L. 1869, p. 1017; 3 Gen. Stat. 2784, 2786; New York,
Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 46 N. J. 67. Without
going into all the details that have been mentioned in the careful and satisfactory discussion of the question in the state courts
we are of opinion that the land in question is subject to the
sovereignty of the State of New Jersey, and that the exclusive
jurisdiction given to the State of New York does not exclude
the right of the sovereign power to tax.
Judgment affirmed.

