OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

the business thereof, where the party asking for the injunction
has no clear right to it.
This case has nothing in common with American School &c.
v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94. There the Post Office Department was assuming to act under a statute giving it the power
to refuse to deliver mail-matter to an individual guilty of fraud
in his business, and this court held that the case made did not
show that the plaintiff in error had been guilty of any conduct
that could be held to be a fraud under the statute under which
the Post Office Department was acting. The department was,
therefore, without jurisdiction to make the order, which was
rcversed in this court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

ALLEMANNIA FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PITTSBURG v. FIREMEN'S INSUI ANCE COMPANY OF BALTIMORE, TO THE USE OF WOLFE, RECEIVER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 180.

Argued March 17, 18, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

Reinsurance has a well known meaning, and, as the usual compact of reinsurance has been understood in the commercial world for many years,
the liability of the reinsurer is not affected by the insolvency of the reinsured company or by the inability of the latter to fulfill its own contracts with the original insured; and in this case the compact, notwithstanding it refers to losses paid, will be construed to cover losses payable
by the reinsured company; and, in a suit by the receiver of that company

on the compact, the fact of its insolvency and non-payment of the risks
reinsured do~s not constitute a defense.
28 App. D. C. 330, affirmed.

ALLEMANNIA INS. CO. v.FIREMEN'S INS. CO. 327
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THis action was brought by plaintiff, who is the defendant
in error, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for
the purpose of recovering an amount alleged to be due the
plaintiff from the defendant- (plaintiff in error) on a policy of
reinsurance. The plaintiff obtained judgment in the trial
court, which was affirmed in the Court of Appeals of the District.
The plaintiff had originally insured the property which was
destroyed, and had prior to the loss reinsured a proportion of
the original insurance with the defendant company. After
such reinsurance the plaintiff suffered heavy losses by reason
of the great fire in the city of Baltimore in the month of February, 1904, for which losses it became liable, and was rendered
thereby insolvent, and is unable to pay the same, unless the
plaintiff is able to collect the amount due it from the defendant by virtue of its reinsurance policies, and from other corporate fire insurance companies with which plaintiff had contracts of reinsurance. By reason of the insolvency of the
corporation a receiver was appointed, by a decree of the Circuit Court of Baltimore city, prior to the commencement of
this .action.
Upon the trial the plaintiff proved a cause of action against
the defendant, unless the facts, which it also proved, that it
had become insolvent by reason of the losses sustained by it
incident to the Baltimore fire in 1904, and that a receiver had
been appointed for it by the court in Maryland, and that the
receiver had paid to its creditors, after this suit was brought,
but fifty-five per cent of the amount of its liability, amounted
to a defense.
The contract between the plaintiff and defendant was described therein as a "reinsurance compact," and in it the defendant agreed to "reinsure the Firemen's.Insurance Company"
in the amounts and manner therein stated.
There were contained in the compact, and forming part
thereof, the following subdivisions:
"10. Upon receiving notice of any loss or claim under any

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

contract hereunder reinsured the said reinsured company shall
promptly advise the said Allemannia Fire Insurance Company, at Pittsburg, Pa., of the same, and of the date and
probable amount of loss or damage, and after said reinsured
company shall have adjusted, accepted proofs of, or paid such
loss or damage, it shall forward to. the said Allemannia Fire
Insurance Company, at Pittsburg, Pa., a proof of its loss and
claim against this company, upon blanks furnished for that
purpose, by said Firemen's Insurance Company, together with
a copy of the original proofs and claim under its contract reinsured, and a copy of the origihal receipt taken upon the payment of such loss; and upon request, shall exhibit and permit
copies to be made of all other papers connected therewith,
which may be in its possession.
"11. Each entry under this compact, unless otherwise provided in this compact, shall be subject to the same conditions,
stipulations, risks and valuation as may be assumed by the
said reinsured company under its original contracts hereunder
reinsured, and losses; if any, shall be payable pro rata. with,
in the same manner, and upon the same terms and conditions
as paid by the said reinsured company under its contracts
hereunder reinsured, and in no event shall this company be
liable for an amount in excess of a ratable proportion of the
sum actually paid to the assured or reinsured by the said reinsured company under its original contracts hereunder reinsured, after deducting therefrom any and all liability of other
reinsurers of said contracts or any part thereof."
The defendant gave no evidence, but requested the court to
instruct the jury as follows:
"No. 2. The jury are instructed that proof of mere liability on the part of -the plaintiff under the original contracts
or policies, involved in this suit, is not sufficient to entitle it
to a verdict against the defendant; and the jury are therefore further instructed that they must return a verdict in
favor of the defendant, unless they shall find from the evidence that the plaintiff has actually paid the whole or some

ALLEMANNIA INS. CO. v,FIREMEN'S INS. CO. 329
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

part of one or more of the claims against it enumerated in the
schedule annexed to the contract of reinsurance here sued
-upon.
"No. 3. The jury are instructed that if they find for the
plaintiff, their verdict must not be for an amount in excess of
a ratable proportion of the various sums actually paid by it
to its policyholders under the' original contracts or policies
enumerated in the schedule attached to the declaration filed
herein."
These instructions were refused and the refusal duly excepted to. Thereupon the jury, under instructions, returned
a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for $12,613.24, being the
amount which it was conceded was due under the reinsurance
compact, provided the fact of insolvency and non-payment
by the reinsured did not constitute a defense.
Mr. Andrew Y. Bradley and Mr. H. Prescott Gatley, with
whom Mr. Charles H. Bradley was on the brief, for plaintiff
inerror:
Under the contract of reinsurance sued upon the reinsured
must have paid the losses on risks carried by it before it can
recover from the reinsuring company.
The provisions found in §§ 10 and 11 of the contract are absolutely controlling in this case.
There is nothing unreasonable in the provisions nor do they
contravene any rile of public policy. The contract of reinsurance is made not for the benefit of the policyholders under
the reinsured company, but for the protection of the reinsured,
and the language of it clearly demonstrates that it was. intended, not as protection against mere liability to pay, but
against actual payment of losses.
"Contracts of insurance, like other contracts are to be construed according to the sense and meaning of the terms which
the parties have used, and if they are clear and unambiguous,
their terms are to be taken and.understood in their plain, ordinary and popular qense." Imperial Fire Ins. Co. v. Coos

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

209 U. S.

County, 151 U. S. 462, 463; 2 Parsons on Contracts (7th ed.),
626, 632.

The language of paragraph 11 of this contract is neither
technical nor ambiguous nor have any of the terms therein used
"acquired a meaning district from the popular sense of the
same terms." They must, therefore, be taken and understood
in their plain, ordinary and popular sense. The words "and in
no event," in their plain, ordinary and popular sense, include
and refer to insolvency as clearly as though that word were
visibly written in the contract.
This contract provides that "in no event shall this company
be liable for an amount in excess of a ratable proportion of
the sum, actually paid," not a ratable proportion of the loss.
The- liability of the reinsuring company being clearly and expressly fixed by the terms of the contract, the court will not
enlarge it. Kerr on Ins., 729, 735; Imperial Ins. Co. v. Coos
County (supra).
'The moment the reinsured accepted the contract in this
case it assumed and took upon itself the duty of performing
a certain definite act by which, and by which alone, the extent and measure of the liability of the reinsuring company
could be ascertained in the event of a loss. -The reinsured,
by its acceptance of this contract, agreed that "actual payment" by it of its 4osses should be a condition precedent to
its right of recovery against the reinsuring company. Langdell on Contracts, § 33; Ostrander on Insurance, § 334; Kerr
on Insurance, 740; Braunstein v. Ins. Co., 1 Best & S. 728.
The insolvency of the reinsured was an event the happening
of which could have been provided against by the terms of
the contract. There l-eing no such provision in the contract,
it must be conclusively presumed that the parties had that
event; as well as all others, in mind when they agreed that
"in no event" should the reinsuring company be liable for
an amount in excess of ratable proportion of the sum actually
paid, etc.
The fact that performance of this cpndition precedent is

ALLEMANNIA INS. CO. v. EIREMEN'S INS. CO. 331
209 U.S..

Opinion of the Court.

now impossible does not invalidate it, nor is the reinsured relieved or discharged from its obligation.
Mr. William F. Mattingly and Mr. T. Wallis Blakistone for
defendant in error:
The contract did not contemplate insolvency. It was a
contract of indemnity and the legal construction of §-11, in
connection with the entire contract, following the strict intent
of both parties to it, is that in no event should the defendant
be required to pay under its contract more than its ratable
proportion of the actual liability of the plaintiff. May on Ins.,
§§ 11, 11a; 2 Clement on Fire Ins., 551, 557; Consolidated R.
E. & F. Ins. Co. v. Cashow, 41 Maryland, 59, 74, 75; Blackstone,
Rec'r, v. Allemannia Ins., Co., 56 N. Y. 104; In re Insurance
Company's Appeal, 83 Pa. St. 396; Cashauv. Northwestern Nat.
Ins. Co., 5 Fed. Cas. No. 2,499; Ex parte Norwood, 18 Fed. Cas.
No. 10,364; In re Republic Ins. Co., 20 Fed. Cas. No. 11,705.
The construction: of these reinsuring contracts, as shown by
authorities cited, is in conformity with the general principles,
relating not only to indemnity contracts, but all contracts.
The fundamental rule of construction is that the consideration
of the situation of the parties when the contract was made,
its subject matter and the purpose of its execution, are material to determine the intention of the parties and the meaning of the terms they used, and that when these are ascertained
they must prevail over the words of the stipulations. Kauffman v. Rcder, 54 L. R. A. 247, 250; S. C., 47 C. C. A. 278;
Canal Co. v. Hill, 18 Wall. 94; O'Brien v. Miller, 168 U. S. 287;
Insurance Co. v. Duval,.8 S. & R. 147; Illinois Ins. Co. v. Andes
Ins. Co., 67 Illinois, 362; Eagle Ins. Co. v. Lafayette Ins. Co.,
9 Indiana, 443; Gantt v. American Ins. Co., 68 Missouri, 503;
24 A. & E. Enc. (2d ed.), 265/, 267 (2), 270, VIII.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question before the court is as to the construction

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

of the language of the reinsurance compact. The term "reinsurance" has a well-known meaning. That kind of a contract has been in force in the commercial world for a long
number of years, and it is entirely different from what is
termed "double insurance," i..e., an insurance of the same in-

terest. The contract is one of indemnity to the person or corporation reinsured and it binds the reinsurer' to pay to the
reinsured the whole loss sustained in respect to the subject of
the insurance to the extent to which he is reinsured. It is not
necessary that the reinsured should first pay the loss to the
party first insured before proceeding against the reinsurer upon
his contract. The liability of the latter is not affected by the
insolvency of the insured or by its inability to fulfill its own
contract with the original insured. The claim of the reinsured
rests upon its liability to pay its loss to the original insured
and is not based upon the greater or less ability to pay by the
reinsured. If the reinsured commenced his action against the
reinsurer before he had himself paid the loss the reinsured took
upon himself the burden of making out his claim with the
same precision that the first insured would be required to do
in an action against him. But there is no authority for saying
that he must pay the loss before enforcing his claim against
the reinsurer.. These propositions are adverted to and enforced
in Hone &c. v. The Mutual Safety InsuranceCompany, 1 Sandf.
Superior Court Reports, 137, where the authorities upon the
subject are gathered and reviewed at some length. The case
itself was subsequently affirmed in the Court of Appeals in 2
N. Y. 235. See also Blackstone v. Allemannia Fire Insurance
Company, 56 N. Y. 104. The same doctrine is held in Consolidated Real Estate &c. v. Cashow, 41 Maryland, 59.
Counsel for plaintiff in error frankly concedes that the legal
propositions above stated are corzrect, and unless there is
somethin g in the special provisions of this reinsurance contract
which changes the ordinary rule on that subject the judgment
herein must be affirmed. Reference is made to the eleventh
subdivision of the policy in question. Under the language of

ALLEMANNIA INS. CO. v. FIREMEN'S INS. CO. 333
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that clause the plaintiff in error contends that the general rule
is altered, and that unless the reinsured has paid over the
money on account of the loss, to the original insured, the reinsurer, is not bound to pay under this particular contract of
reinsurance. Language somewhat like that used in the eleventh subdivision has been construed in other cases. In Black-.
stone v. Allemannia Fire Insurance Company, supra, the language used was "loss, if any, payable pro rata, and at the samae
time with'the reinsured." The Court-of Appeals of New York
held that the first part of the clause relieved the defendant
from paying the full amount of the loss and made it liable only
for its pro rata share, so that the defendant's reinsurance being
for half the loss, the defendant was only held liable to pay
half the loss. Continuing, the court said (p. 107): "In regard
to the latter branch of the. clause in question, which says that
the loss is payable 'at the same time with the reinsured,' it
is not possible to conclude from it that actual payment by the
reinsured is, in fact, to precede or to accompany payment by
the reinsurer. It looks to the time of payability and not to
the fact of payment. It has its operation in fixing the same
period for the duty of payment by the reinsurer As was fixed
for payment by the reinsured. To give it the construction contended for by the defendant would, in substance, subvert the
whole contract of reinsurance as hitherto understood in this
State."
In.Ex parte Norwood, 3 Biss. 504, a clause in the reinsurance
policy stated that "loss, if any, payable at the same time and
pro rata with the insured," and it was held that such language
simply gives to the company the benefit of any defense, deduction or equity which the first insurer may have, making
the liability of the reinsured the same as the original insured.
It does not limit such liability to what the original insurer may
have paid or be able to pay. Speaking of this clause, Judge
Blodgett said:
"The reinsuring company is to have the benefit of any deduction by reason of other insurance or (salvage, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

original company would have, and also to have the benefit
of any time for delay or examination which the original company might claim, so that the liability of the reinsuring company shall be co-extensive only with the liability and not with
the ability, so to speak, of the original company.
"The original company may have reinsured for the purpose
for which reinsurance is usually, if not universally, accomplished-for the purpose of supplying itself with a fund with
which to meet its obligations. It may have placed its own
funds entirely out of its control; it may have divided its capital among its stockholders, and may depend solely upon the
reinsurance to make good its liability to policyholders.
"The intention of this clause was to make the reinsuring
company's liability co-extensive, and only co-extensive, with
the liability of the original insurance company.
"For instance, suppose an insurance company in the city
of Chicago wishes to go out of business. It has money enough
to reinsure all its risks, and does so, and goes out of the insurance business. That company does not keep a fund on
hand any longer for the purpose of meeting losses as they fall
in, but depends upon its reinsurance.
"Now, it is to my mind absurd to say, if a loss occurs on
one of those reinsured policies, that the company primarily
liable is to have its claim against the reinsuring company
limited by its ability to meet its obligations to its or'iginal
policyholders. The very object of making the policy of reinsurance was to place the company in funds with which to
make its policyholders whole, and that is defeated if the construction which is insisted upon by the assignee is the true one.
"The fair, liberal construction, it seems to me, of this clause,
and the salutory one, is to assume that the true intent of itthe judicial meaning-is that the liability of the reinsurance
company is to be no greater than that of the original company;
that they are not to be compelled to pay any faster than the
original company would be compelled to pay; that they are
to have the benefit of any defense which the original company

ALLEMANNIA INS. CO. v. FIREMEN'S INS. CO. 335
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would have had. Any deduction-any equity-which the
original company would have had against the original insured
is to inure to the benefit of the'reinsuring company.
"I am of opinion that the Republic is liable on these policies
to the extent of the adjusted losses, even if the Lorillard had
not paid a cent."
In Cashau v. The Northwestern &c. Insurance Co., 5 Biss.
476, in the reinsurance policy there was a clause that the reinsurer shall "pay pro rata at and in the time and manner as
the reinsured," It was held that the reinsurer was to have
all the advantages of the time and manner of payment specified
in the policy of the reinsurcd, but that it had no reference to
the insolvency of the reinsured. The court in that case said:
"The insolvency of the original insurer is no defense, in
whole or in part, to a suit against the reinsurer. It is claimed
on the part of the defendant that the condition in its policy
is an exception to this position of the law. . . . The condition in that policy that 'in case of loss the company shall
pay pro rata at and in the same time and manner as the reinsured,' cannot mean that in case of the insolvency of the
Fulton company the defendant shall only be obliged to pay
the pro rata of the dividends of the assets of said company,
upon the claim of the first insured. It cannot have such application. The condition means that the defendant shall pay
at and in the same time and manner as the reinsured company
shall pay or be bound to pay according to its policy, and the
defendant shall have all the advantages of the time and manner
of payment specified in the policy of the Fulton company,
otherwise the defendant's policy would not be the contract of
indemnity intended, and endless litigation might ensue."
Bearing in mind what the contract of reinsurance, pure and
simple, means, and how these contracts have been
enforced
in the past when some special language has been introduced
in regard to the payment under a reinsurance policy, the
question arises whether, by the use of the language of the
eleventh subdivision, the contract of reinsurance, while still

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

bearing that name, has been so changed as to deprive it of
its chief value. As is stated by Judge Johnson, in regard to
the language used in 56 N. Y., supra, to give this language
this constructioA :will, in substance, subvert the whole contract of reinsurance as hitherto understood. We agree with
the court below, that the language .of the eleventh subdivision,
taken in connection with the fact that it is used in a contract
designated by the parties as one of reinsurance, means that
the reinsuring company shall not pay more than its ratable
proportion of the actual liabili.ty payable on the part of the
reinsured, after deducting all liability of other reinsurers.
To hold otherwise is to utterly subvert the original meaning
of the term reinsurance and to deprive the contract of its chief
value. The losses are to be payable pro rata with, in the same
mariner and upot the same terms and conditions as paid by
the reinsured coinpany under its contracts. This means that
such losses, payable pro rata, are to be paid upon the*same
condition as are the losses of the insurer payable under its
contract.. And the liability of the reinsurer shall not be in
excess of the liability of the insurer under its original contracts,
after deducting therefrom any and all liability of other reinsurers of the contract of the insurer or of any part thereof.
It is the ratable proportion for which the other reinsurers are
liable, that provision is made for deducting, and the liability
of the insurer means such liability after that deduction, and
does not mean there must be an actual payment of such liability by the insurer before it can have any benefit of the contract of reinsurance which is made with defendant.
Subdivision 10 of the contract does not result in any different
conclusion.
This subdivision does not and cannot mean that there is
to be no liability unless the reinsured should pay the loss sustained. The reinsured company under its provisions is bound
to forward to the reinsuring company a statement of the date
and the probable amount of loss or damage, and it is provided
that after the reinsured company shall have adjusted, accepted

UNITED STATES v. HERMANOS Y COMPANIA.
209 U. S.

337

Syllabus.

proofs of, or paid such loss or damage, it shall forward the
proof of its loss and claim and a copy of the receipt taken for
payment. It means that if the loss or claim has been in fact
paid, then a copy of the receipt is to be sent, but it does not
mean that there must be payment before any liability on the
part of the reinsuring company exists.
We do not think that the language. of these two subdivisions
was intended to entirely nullify and tear up by the roots the
construction given to the contract of reinsurance for so many
years throughout the civilized world and upon which its chief
value is based. The nature of the contract is accurately described in its commencement. It is described as a "compact
of reinsurance," and there has been no doubt as to the meaning
of such contract for the last two centuries. The judgment of
the Court of Appeals is right, and is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CERECEDO HERMANOS Y
COMPA9IA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.

No. 152. Submitted March 5, 1008.-Decided April 6, 1908.

When the meaning of a statute is doubtful the construction given by the
department charged with its execution should be given great weight.
Robertson v. Downing, 127 U. S. 607; United States v. Healy, 160 U. S.
136.

The reenactment by Congress, without change, of a statute which had
previously received long continued executive construction, is an adoption
by Congress of such construction. United States v. Falk, 204 U. S. 143.
Par. 296 of the Tariff Act of July 11, 1897, construed in accordance with
Treasury decisions.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.
VOL. CCIX-22

