OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. CHICAGO
GREAT WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 73. Argued April 16, 17, 1907.-Decided March 23, 1908.

Railroads are the private property of their owners, and while the public
has the power to prescribe rules for securing faithful and efficient service
and equality between shippers and communities, the public is -in no
preper sense a general. manager. The companies may', subject to change
of rates provided for in the Interstate Commerce Act, contract with shippers for single and successive transportations and in fixing their own
rates may take into account competition, provided it is genuine and not:
a mere pretense.
There is no piesumption of wrong arising from a change of rate made by
a carrier. The presumption of good faith and integrity attends the action
of carriers as it does the 'action of other corporations and individuals
and those presumptions have not been overthrown by any legislation
in respect to carriers.
A rate on the manufactured article resulting from genuine competition
and natural conditions is not necessarily an undue and unreasonable
discrimination against a manufacturing community because it is lower
than the rate on the raw material; and, under the circumstances of this
case, there was no undue and unreasonable discrimination against the
Chicago packing-house industries on the part of the railroads in making,
as the result of actual competition and conditions, a lower rate for manufactured packing-house products than for livestock from Missouri River
points to Chicago.
141 Fed. Rep. 1003, affirmed.
CERTAIN

proceedings were had before the Interstate Corn-.

merce Commission. They were commenced by the filing of a
petition by the Chicago Live Stock Exchange in April, 1902,
*charging the defendants, who are now the appellees, with the
violation of §§ 1 and 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act of
February 4, 1887. The specific offense stated was that the
defendants were charging higher rates of freight upon live
stock shipped from Missouri River points, and other points

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. CHICAGO G. W. RY. 109
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

similarly situated, to Chicago, than upon dressed meats and
the prepared products known as packing-house products. It
was contended that this higher rate of freight was an unlawful
discrimination against shippers of live stock to Chicago, and
gave to shippers of packing-house products an undue and unreasonable preference and advantage over the former; that it
subjected the Chicago Live Stock Exchange and its members,
who were engaged in the business of selling live stock on commission, as well as the owners of live stock and the shippers
thereof, to an unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage. The
several defendants, with one or two exceptions, answered,
denying the allegations of the complaint. After a hearing,
the Interstate Commerce Commission, on January 7, 1905,
filed its report and opinion, including findings of fact, and
made an order, which is the foundation of this suit. The order
is in these words:
"Order of Commission.
"This case being at issue upon complaint and answers on
file, and having been duly heard and submitted by the parties,
and full investigation of the matters and things involved having been had, and the Commission having, on the date hereof,
made and filed a report and opinion containing its findings of
fact and conclusions thereon, which said report and opinion
is hereby referred to and made a part of this order:
"It is ordered, that, in accordance with said report and
opinion, the present relation of rates maintained and enforced
by defendants [naming them all, eighteen in number], whereby
their -rates for transportation are higher upon live cattle and
live hogs than upon the dressed or prepared products of cattle
and hogs on shipments thereof to Chicago, in the State of
Illinois, from points on the Missouri River, Sioux City, in the
State of Iowa, to Kansas City, in the State of Missouri, inelusive, and from South St. Paul, in the State of Minnesota,
or from points in the territory between the Missouri River
or South St. Paul and Chicago, constitutes wrongful prejudice

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

*and discrimination, in violation of the provisions of the act
to regulate commerce; and that said defendants'-be, and each
of them is hereby, notified and required, to cease and desist,
on or before the fifteenth day of February, 1905, from main.taining or enforcing the said unlawful relation of rates, and
from further continuing said unlawful prejudice and discrimination.
"And it is further ordered, that a notice embodying this
order be forthwith sent to each of the defendant corporations,
together with a copy of the report and opinion of the Commission herein, in conformity With the provisions of section 15
of the act to regulate commerce."
The defendants not complying with this order, the Interstate Commerce Commission caused this suit tQ be commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, seeking to compel compliance.
The defendants answered, admitting service of the order and
refusal to comply therewith, denying that it was legal or binding, but on the contrary claiming that it was in violation of
their rights. After the filing of the petition to enforce the
order of the Commission and the answers thereto, and in
August, 1905, the Commission also commenced an original
proceeding under and by virtue of the act of. February 19,
1903 (32 Stat. 847), known as the Elkins Act, charging substantially the same discrimination. These cases were consolidated and heard before the Circuit Court, an enormous
volume of additional testimony being taken, and on,November 20, 1905, that court announeed its opinion, stated its findings of fact and conclusions of law, and ordered that the bill
should be dismissed. A decree accordingly was so entered.
141 Fed. Rep. 1003. The findings of fact were as follows:
"First. That the live stock rates are reasonable in themselves. All live stock from points West, southwest and northwest of the Missouri River and St. Paul are shipped on a proportional rate from the Missouri River or St. Paul to Chicago.
These rates are equal to or less than the rates on dressed meats

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. CHICAGO G. W. RY. 111
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and packing-house products between the same points. There
can be, and is, no complaint as to such traffic. The local rates
from the Missouri River and St. Paul, and from 150 miles east,
to Chicago, are as shown in above schedule. These rates
gradually decrease until the Mississippi River is reached, and
the average Iowa rate is 21 cents. The great weight of evidence indicates that these rates are at least reasonably low.
"Second. That the cost of carrying live stock is greater
than that of carrying dressed meats and packing-house products.
"Third. That the value of the service of carriage is greater
to the packers, because of the higher price of a car of dressed
meats or packing-house products. Dressed meats and packinghouse products are in value worth nearly twice as much as
live stock. This factor is important, in ordinary cases, however, in part, because of the greater risk of carriage of highpriced commodities. In these cases, as to the particular
commodities in question, the evidence shows that the defendant railroad companies pay out a much larger amount in
damages for losses arising from the carriage of live stock than
they do for losses arising from the carriage of dressed meats
and packing-house products, in proportion to the value of the
products carried, and more in damages per car regardless of the
value. This makes the risk of carriage greater for live stock.
The result is that the value of the service is not such an important factor in this kind of a case as it is considered to be in
ordinary cases.
"Fourth. That the rates in question given to the packers at
Missouri River and St. Paul were the result of competition.
The product of the packers at these points was large in quantity, was certain and continuous in amount, was in the hands
of few people, and for years before the Federal injunction of
March, 1902, had been competed for so strenuously by the
railroads reaching and passing through these points, as to
cause the cutting of rates and the giving of secret rebates in
large amounts. Four of the defendant companies, the Chicago,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Can.

209 U. S.

Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad Company, the Chicago &
Northwestern Railway Company, the Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Railway Company, and the Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railroad Company, passed through these points into
the territory west of the Missouri River and St. Paul. Four
other of the defendant companies, the Chicago Great Western
Railway Company, the Chicago & Alton Railway Company,
the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and the Wabash Railroad Company reached the Missouri River points and St. Paul,
competing for this business. Other railroads, running. south
to the Gulf of Mexico, also competed more or less for said business, including the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6 Railway..
After said injunction was granted the defendant railroads
(according to . evidence herein) obeyed it, and until August
of that year the .said traffic was carried under competition
between the defendants at the rate of 23J cents from Missouri
River points to Chicago, and 25 cents from St. Paul to Chicago,
etc., as set out above. As a resilt df such competition, the
Chicago Great Western Railway Company became dissatisfied
with the proportion of the business it received, and, in order
to get what it claimed as its share, cut the rate to 20 cents to
Chicago and 18J cents to the Indiana line for eastern business,
and published the same. This it did under a contract with the
packers running for seven years. The Chicago Great Western
Railway.Company was the longest route from Chicago to the
Missouri River points. The other railroad defendants, to meet
the rate ruade by the Chicago Great Western Railway Company, as a result of competition, met and published the same
rate. These rates were not made voluntarily, but from necessity arising from competition; the necessity being that of
carrying the goods at the lower rate or losing the business to
which the officers of said companies thought they were entitled.
This cutting of the rate by t/e Chicago Great Western Railway Company was not the origin of competition. That. had
existed legally since March, 1902, between defendant railroads
and also between them and the Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. CHICAGO G. W. RY. 113
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Railway Company. There was not competition enough at
said points to lower the rate as to live stock. There was little
and different competition on rates as to live stock at points
betwcci the Missouri River and St. Paul and Chicago. The
only places where the opportunities for competition existed
as to live stock the same as to packing-house products were
immediately at Missouri River points and St. Paul, and there
only as to live stock driven in. on foot from the surrounding
country. There is comparatively a small amount of this stock.
If it was exactly the- same kind of a commodity as that furnished by the packers there. would be an opportunity for
competition in this at these points alone.
"Fifth. That the competition in question did not result
from agreement of the defendants, but was actual, genuine
competition.
"Sixth. That the present rates on live stock have not
materially affected any of the markets, prices, or shipments;
that they are reasonably fair to Chicago and to the shippers;
that the shipments of live stock from points between Chicago
and the Missouri River and St. Paul are as great in proportion
to the volume of business as before the present rates were made;
that the majority of the live stock comes to Chicago from points
as near as 150 miles this side of the Missouri River and St.
Paul, and that the lower rate given to the packers does not
seem to directly influence or injure the shippers of live stock.
"Seventh. That the rates for carrying packers' products
and dressed meats were remunerative. They did not pay any
portion of the fixed charges and interest of the railroad companies, nor its full share of the operating expenses, but they
did pay more than its cost of movement and leave something
to apply upon operating' expenses.
"Eighth. That the welfare of the public, including the shippers, consumers, and all localities and markets, does not seem
to be materially affected by the present rates.
"Ninth. That the usual custom for railroads is to charge
a higher rate for the finished product than for the raw maVOL. ccix-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

terial, and this, as a rule, has been applied to live stock and
its finished products. This is not universal, however. There
are many commodities where the raw material is charged more
for carriage than its finished product, as in the case of the raw
material of cotton and compressed cotton, straw, unbaled and
baled, pig iron and its products, and many other commodities.
It also appears that for sixteen years out of twenty-three,
between Missouri River points and St. Paul and Chicago, the
published rates on live stock were higher than on dressed meats
and packing-house products. Many witnesses testified that
'the ideal rate for the finished product would be higher than the
raw material. This, however, was based on the presumption
that competition or commercial necessity did not interfere,
-and that the cost of service and value of the products would
be greater in case of the finished products than in that of the
raw material."
Section 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act, 24 Stat. 380, so
far as it is material for this case, is as follows:
"It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subjeQt to the
provisions of this act to make or, give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to, any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description of traffic in any respect whatsoever, -or to subject any
particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or
any particular description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
And §3 of the Elkins Act, 32 Stat. 847, provides:
"That whenever the Interstate Commerce Commission shall
have reasonable ground for believing that any common carrier

.

.

is committing any discriminatiQns forbidden by

.

law, a petition may be presented alleging such facts" (such discrimination), "to the Circuit Court of the United States sitting
in equity having jurisdiction

.

.

.

and upon being satis-

fied of the truth of the allegations of said petition said court
shall

.

.

.

require a discontinuance of -such discrimina-

tion by proper orders, writs," etc.

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. CHICAGO G. W. RY. 115
209 U. S

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. L. A. Shaver and Mr. S. H. Cowan for appellant:
A higher rate on live stock than on its products is contrary
to the natural rule or law that the raw-material rate shall not
be higher than that on the manufactured article.
A departure from that rule is contrary to public policy,
because it involves the destruction of large public interests
which have been built up under the rule.
The making of the live-stock rate higher than the product
rate is contrary to the almost universal practice of carriers
throughout the country under which the rate on live stock
is made no higher, but in many instances less, than the rate
on the prepared product.
The higher rate on the live stock than on the product is
violative of the rule that, other things being equal, value
should control or be taken into account in rate making-the
article of higher value taking a higher rate than one of lower
value.
The changed relation :is unlawful because it was made for
an unlawful purpose, namely, the building up of the Missouri
River markets at the expense of the Chicago markets, and its
natural tendency is to that end.
The changed relation is unlawful because it was initiated
by the Chicago Great Western Railway Company solely with
a view of promoting its own interest and without regard to the
public interest involved.
The changed relation is unlawful because there was no legitimate competition in rates necessitating it-the only prior
competition being in the shape of rebates.
The contract of the Chicago Great Western Railway Company with the Missouri River packers is unlawful under the
so-called "anti-trust" act because it gives that company a
"monopoly of a part of the trade or commerce among the
several States," and, also, because it is "a contract in restraint of trade and commerce among the several States."
The contract is unlawful because it was for the reduction
of a rate on the product claimed to be already unreasonably

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellee.

209 U. S.

low and which, that being the case; as reduced, places a burden upon other traffic.
The contract is unlawful because it gives an undue preference to one article of traffic (the product) over another article
of traffic (live stock), both articles being in active competition
with each other in the markets.
Mr. Cordenio A. Severance, with whom Mr. Frank B. Kellogg and Mr. Robert E. Olds were on the brief, for appellee,
Chicago Great Western Railway Company:
Findings of fact by the Circuit Court should be accepted on
appeal as witnesses testified in open court. Halsell v. Renf row,
202 U. S. 291; Shappirio v. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 240; Beyer v.
Le Fevre, 186 U. S. 119; Stuart v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 14; Warren
v. Keep, 155 U. S. 267; Crawford v. Neal, 144 U. S. 596; Evans
v. Bank, 141 U. S.107.
The contract between respondent Chicago Great Western
Railway Company and various packers was proper exercise of
its right to compete for business. Cotting v. Godard, 183 U. S.
79; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 600; Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Ry. Co. v. Kutter, 147 Fed. Rep. 51; Interstate Comm. Comm. v. B. & 0. Ry. Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 37; Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 454.
The rate on live-stock products brought about by the Chicago
Great Western contract did not involve an undue preference
or unjust discrimination within the meaning of the Interstate
Commerce law. Interstate Comm. Comm. v. B. & 0. Ry. Co.,
145 U. S. 276; East Tenn., V. & G.Ry. Co. v. InterstateComm.
Comm., 181 U. S. 1; Texas & Pacific Ry.Co. v. InterstateComm.
Comm., 162 U. S. 197; Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Alabama
Midland Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 144; Louisville & Nashville Ry.
Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648; Interstate Comm. Comm. v.
Louisville & Nashville Ry. Co., 190 U. S. 273; D., L. & W.
Bty. Co. v. Kutter, 147 Fed. Rep. 51; Interstate Comm. Comm.
v.B. & 0. Ry. Co,, 43 Fed. Rep. 37; Platt v. Le Cocq, 150
Fed. Rep., 391; Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Western & Atlantic

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. CHICAGO G. W. RY. 117
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ry. Co., 93 Fed. Rep. 83; Judson on Interstate Commerce,
§ 175-183.
Neither the Commission nor the court had the right to
ignore the relative cost of the service in determining whether
the apparent discrimination was undue or unreasonable.
Squire v. Michigan Central Ry. Co., 3 I. C. C. R. 521.
The Commission, previous to the amendment of the law in
1906, had no power to fix rates, and hence no power to establish the relation between rates. Cincinnati,N. 0. & Tex. Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Interstate Comm. Comm., 162 U. S. 184; Interstate
Comm. Comm. v. C., N. 0. & Tex. Pac. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479;
Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 145; Southern Pacific Co. v. Colorado Fuel & Iron Co.,
101 Fed. Rep. 779._
Findings of fact \of the lower court, from which the conclusion necessarily followed that respondents have W decree
in their favor, was abundantly supported by the testimony
and the law.
Mr. Ed. Baxter for appellees as of record. Mr. Charles A.
Clark for intervenor, T. M. Sinclair & Company, Limited.
Mr. Frank T. Ransom for intervenor, Union Stock Yards
Company of Omaha, Limited. Mr. Stephen S. Brown and
Mr. John E. Dolman filed a brief on behalf of intervenor,
St. Joseph Stock Yards Company of St. Joseph, Missouri.
Mr. S. A. Lynde filed a brief on behalf of appellee, The Chicago & Northwestern Railway Company.
MR. JUSTIcE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to define the full scope and meaning of the
prohibition found in § 3 of the Interstate Commerce At-or
even to determine whether the language is sufficiently definite
to make the duties cast on the Interstate Commerce Commission ministerial, and therefore such as may legally be imposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

upon a ministerial body, or legislative, and. therefore, under
the Federal Constitution, a matter for Congressional actionfor within any fair construction of the terms "undue or unreasonable" the findings of the Circuit Court place the action
of the railroads outside the reach of condemnation.
The complainant, before the Interstate Commerce action,
was an incorportated association. The purposes for which it
was organized were, as stated in its charter, "to establish and
maintain a commercial exchange; to promote uniformity in
the customs and usages of merchants; to provide for the speedy
adjustment of all business disputes between its members; to
facilitate the receiving and distributing of live stock, as well
as to provide for and maintain a rigid inspection thereof,
thereby guarding against the sale or use of unsound or unhealthy meats; and generally to secure to its members the
benefits of cooperation in the furtherance of their legitimate
pursuits." Its members were, as found by the Commerce
Commission, "engaged in the purchase, shipment and sale of
live stock for themselves and upon commission." It was such
an association, with members engaged in the business named,
that initiated these proceedings and in whose behalf they were
primarily prosecuted. While it may be that the proceedings
are not to be narrowly limited to an inquiry whether this particular complainant has been in any way injured by the action
of the railroad companies, yet that question must be regarded
as the one which was the special object of inquiry and consideration. It is true that the Commission subsequently commenced under the Elkins Act an independent suit in its own
name, but it was practically to enforce the award made by the
Commission after its inquiry into the controversy between
the live stock exchange and the railroad companies.
It. must be remembered that railroads are the private property of their owners; that while from the public character of
the work in which they are engaged the public has the power
to prescribe rules for securing faithful and efficient service
and equality between shippers and communities, yet in no

INTERSTATE COMM. OOMM. v. CHICAGO G. W. RY. 119
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proper sense is the public a general manager. As said in Int.
Com. Com. v. Ala. Mid. R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 144, 172, quoting
from the opinion of Circuit Judge Jackson, afterwards Mr. Justice Jackson of this court, in Int. Com. Com. v. B. & 0. R. R.
Co., 43 Fed. Rep. 37, 50:
"Subject to the two leading prohibitions that their charges
shall not be unjust or unreasonable, and that they shall not
unjustly discriminate so as to give undue preference
or disadvantage to persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the act
to regulate commerce leaves common carriers, as they were at
the common law, free to make special rates looking to the increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to adjust and
apportion their rates so as to meet the necessities of commerce
and of their own situation and relation to it, and generally
to manage their important interests upon the same principles
which are regarded as sound and adopted in other trades and
pursuits."
It follows that railroad companies may contract with shippers for a single transportation or for successive transportations, subject though it may be to a change of rates in the
manner provided in the Interstate Commerce Act-Armour
Packing Co. v. The United States, ante, p. 56, and also that
in fixing their own rates they may take into account competition with other carriers, provided only that the competition
is genuine and not a pretense. Int. Com. Com. v. B. & 0. R.
R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; T. & P. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Com., 162
U. S. 197; Int. Com. Com. v. Ala. Mid. Ry. Co., supra; L. &
N. R. R. Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S.648; East Tenn. &c. Ry. Co.
v. Int. Com. Com., 181 U. S. 1; Int. Com. Com. v. L. & N. R. R.
Co., 190 U. S.273.
It must also be remembered that there is no presumption
of wrong arising from a change of rate by a carrier. The presumption of honest intent and right conduct attends the action of carriers as well as it does the action of other corporations or individuals in their transactions in life. Undoubtedly
when rates are changed the carrier making the change must,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

when properly called upon, be able to give a good reason therefor, but the mere fact that a rate has been raised carries with
it no presumption that it was not rightfully done. Those
presumptions of good faith and integrity which have been
recognized for ages as attending human action have not been
overthrown by any legislation in respect to common carriers.
The Commerce Commission did not find whether the rates
were reasonable or unreasonable per se. Its omission may
have been owing, partly at least, to the decision in Interstate
Commerce Commission v. C., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Company, 167
U. S. 506, for this controversy arose before the amendment
of June 29, 1906. 34 Stat. 584. On the other hand, the Circuit Court found specifically that the live-stock rates were
reasonable, and also that the rates for carrying packers'
products and dressed meats were remunerative. See Findings
1 and 7. Obviously shippers had in the rates considered
separately no ground of challenge. But the burden of complaint is not that any rates taken by themselves were too high,
but that the difference between those on live stock and those
on dressed meats and packers' products worked an unjust discrimination.
It is insisted that "the making of the live-stock rate higher
than the product rate is violative of the almost universal rule
that the rates on raw material shall not be higher than on the
manufactured product." This may be conceded, but that the
rule is not universal the proposition itself recognizes, and the
findings of the court give satisfactory reasons for the exception
here shown. See Findings 2, 3 and 9. The cost of carriage,
the risk of injury, the larger amount which the companies are
called upon to pay out in damages make sufficient explanation.
They do away with the idea that in the relation established
between the two kinds of charges any undue or unreasonable
preference was intended or secured.
Finding No. 6 is very persuasive. It reads:
"Sixth. That the present rates on live stock have not materially affected any of the markets, prices, or shipments;

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. CHICAGO G. W. RY. 121
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that they are reasonably fair to Chicago and to the shippers;
that the shipments of live stock from points between Chicago
and the Missouri River and St. Paul are as great in proportion
to the volume of business as before the present rates were made;
that the majority of the live stock comes to Chicago from
points as near as 150 miles this side of the Missouri River and
St. Paul, and that the lower rate given to the packers does
not seem to directly influence or injure the shippers of live
stock."
If the rates complained of have not materially affected any
of the markets, prices, or shipments; if they are reasonably
fair to Chicago and the shippers; if the shipments of live stock
from the west to Chicago are as great in proportion to the bulk
of the business as before the present rates were made, and the
lower rate given to the packers does not directly influence or
injure the shippers of live stock; it is difficult to see what
foundation there can be for the claim of an undue and unreasonable preference. It would seem a fair inference from the
findings that the real complaint was that the railroad companies did not so. fix their rates as to help the Chicago packing
industry; that they recognized the fact that along the Missouri
River.had been put up large packing-houses, and, without any
intent to injure Chicago, had fixed reasonable rates for the
carrying of live stock to such packing-houses and also to Chicago; that those packing-houses being nearer to the cattle
fields were able to engage in the packing industry as conveniently and successfully as the packing-houses in Chicago. If
we were at liberty to consider the mere question of sentiment,
certainly to place' packing-houses close to the cattle fields,
thus avoiding the necessity of long transportation of the living animals-a transportation which cannot be accomplished
without more or less suffering to them-and to induce- transportation to those nearer packing-houses would deserve to be
commended rather than condemned.
With reference to competition we have referred to the, cases
in this court in which that matter has been considered. Ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

cording to the fourth finding the rates in question given to
the packers at the Missouri River and St. Paul were the result of competition. Without recapitulating all the facts disclosed in that finding it is enough to say that the Chicago Great
Western Railway Company, which had the longest line from
Chicago to Missouri River points, made a reduction in the
rates, and did this, as its president testified, "for the purpose
of securing' a greater proportion of the traffic in the products
of live stock than it had been previously able to obtain."
That is one of the facts inducing competition, and one of the
results expected to flow from a reduction of rates. It certainly
of itself deserves no condemnation. In order to secure to themselves what was likely to be transferred to the Great Western
by virtue of its reduction of .rates, the other companies also
made a reduction and, as shown by the fifth finding, the competition was not the result of agreement, but was an "actual,
genuine, competition." It may be true, as contended by counsel for the appellant, that even a genuine competition which
results in a change of rates does not necessarily determine the
question whether the rates as fixed work an undue preference
or create an unlawful discrimination. Those rates fixed may
make a preference or discrimination irrespective of the motives which caused the railway companies to adopt them, and
yet the fact of a genuine competition does make against the
contention that the rates were intended to work injustice.
An honest and fair motive was the cause of the change in rates;
honest and fair on the part of the Great Western in its effort
to secure more business, and equally honest and fair on the
part of the other railway companies in the effort to retain as
much of the business as was possible. In other words, this
competition eliminates from the case an intent to do an unlawful act, and leaves for consideration only the question
whether the rates as established do work an undue preference
or discrimination; and as the findings of the court show that
the result of the new rates has not been to change the volume
of traffic going to Chicago, or materially affect the business

Ex parte YOUNG.
209 U.S.

Syllabus.

of the original complainant, it would seem necessarily to result that the charge of an unlawful discrimination is not proved.
In short, there was no intent on the part of the railway companies to do a wrongful act, and the act itself did not work any
substantial injury to the rights of the complainant.
We have not attempted to review in detail the great mass
of testimony, amounting to two enormous printed volumes.
It is enough to say that an, examination of it clearly shows
sufficient reasons for the findings of fact made by the Circuit
Court.
In short, the findings of the Circuit Court were warranted
by the testimony, and those findings make it clear that there
was no unlawful discrimination.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY did not hear the argument nor take part
in the decision of this case.

Ex parte YOUNG.
PETITION FOR WRITS OF HABEAS. CORPUS AND
No. 10, Original.

CERTIORARI.

Argued December 2, 3, 1907.-Decided March 23, 1908.

While this court will not take jurisdiction if it should not, it must take jurisdiction if it should. It cannot, as the legislature may, avoid meeting a
mcasure because it desires so to do.
In this case a suit by a stockholder against a corporation to enjoin the directors *and officers from complying with the provisions of a state statute,
alleged to be unconstitutional, was properly brought within Equity Rule
94 of this court.
An order of the Circuit Court committing one for contempt for violation of
a decree entered in a suit of which it did not have jurisdiction is unlawful;
and, in such case, upon proper application, this court will discharge the
person so held.

