HUNTER v. WOOD.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

HUNTER, SHERIFF OF BUNCOMBE COUNTY, NORTH
CAROLINA, v. WOOD.
APPEAL FROM .THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 474. Argued December 18, 19, 1907.-Decided March 23, 1908.
Where the Circuit Court of the United States'has, in an action within its
jurisdiction, issued an interlocutory injunction against the enforcement
of a state railroad rate statute, and in such order directed the conditions
under which tickets shall be sold at rates higher than those prescribed
under the state statute, a ticket agent who sells tickets in conformity
with such conditions,, and who is proceeded against, conviqted, and
sentenced therefor by the state authorities, is in custody for an act done
pursuant to an order, prbcess or decree of d court or judge of the United
States within the meaning of § 753, Rev. Stat., and may apply for a
writ of habeas corpus to the United States circuit judge who has the
power and right under such section to discharge him.
Ex parte Young, ante, p. 123, followed as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United- States of such an adtion.

H. Wood, the appellee, being one. of the ticket agents
of the Southern Railway Company, was, on July 17, 1907,
charged in the police jilstice's court of the city of Asheville, in
the county of Buncombe, in the State of North Carolina, with
JAMES

unlawfully and willfully overcharging one T. J. Harmon for

a railroad ticket from. Asheville,. North Carolina, to Canton,
North Carolina, in violation of the state law.. He was arrested
and brought before the court, and -on the trial, July 18, 1907,
was convicted and sentenced by the court to imprisonment in

the county jail of Buncombe county for the term of thirty days,
to be worked out on the public roads of that county for that
time, and to pay all costs.
The appellee applied to the United States circuit judge in the
Western District of North Carolina for a writ of habeas corpus
to be directed to Hunter, appellant, as sheriff of Buncombe

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

county, to inquire into the cause of his detention and to obtain
his discharge. The writ was issued and, after a hearing, thd
Circuit Judge discharged the .appellee from imprisonment, and
directed that a copy of the order of the discharge should be
certified to the police justice's court of the city of Asheville and
to the sheriff of Buncombe county, in whose custody the petitioner then was. Ex parte Wood, 155 Fed. Rep. 190.
It appeared that prior to "the passage, in 1907, of the acts of
,lie North Carolina legislature in relation to passenger and
freight rates on railroads within the State, the Southern, Railway Company were charging the rates then allowed by law.
After the passage of the acts above mentioned, which greatly
rcduced the rates of compensation for the transportation of
both passengers and freight, the Southern Railway Company
commenced a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of North Carolina against the
corporation commission and the attorney general and assistant
attorney general of the State, to enjoin the taking of any proceedings or the commencement of any suits or actions to enforce
the acts in question or to recover penalties for the disobedience
of such acts by the company. The bill alleged that the acts were
unconstitutional, and that if the rates were enforced the result
would be to prevent the company earning anything upon its
investment, and deprive it of its property without due process
of law, and deny it .the equal protection of the laws, contrary
to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States. The bill also av6rred that a duty rested upon
the corporation commission and the attorney general and assistant attorney general to take such proceedings as they might
deem expedient for the enforcement of the acts, and that the
corporation commission would, for the purpose of putting the
acts into effect, do those things which it was provided should
be done, and in case of continuous refusal on the part of the
company to charge only the rate .specified the attorney general
and his assistant would proceed to enforce the same as prescribed in the acts,

HUNTER v. WOOD.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The Circuit Judge upon this bill granted an interlocutory
injunction, until the further order of the court, against the members of the corporation commission and the attorney general
and assistant attorney general, restraining them from taking
any proceedings towards the enforcement of the acts, or putting
the acts in respect to freight charges or passenger rates, or any
part or either of the acts, into effect, and from prosecuting any
suit or action, civil or criminal, against the railway company,
its officers, agents or employ6s. The order also provided for
the execution of a bond on the part of the railway company
in the sum of $325,000, conditioned to pay into the registry of
the court from time to time, as the court might order, such sums
of money as should be equal to the difference between the aggregate freight and passenger rates and excess baggage charges,
charged and received by the company for intrastate service on
its lines in the State of North Carolina, and what would have
been the aggregate amounts for such service at the rates fixed
in or under the acts of the assembly, above mentioned. The
order provided a method of pr'ocedure. by giving to each purchaser of a ticket a coupon for the payment of the difference
stated, on presenting the coupon to the registry clerk, if the act
should be finally held valid
Section 4 of the act of the legislature, prescribing the maximum charges for the transportation of passengers in North
Carolina, enacted that any railroad company violating the provisions of the act should be liable to a penalty of five hundred
dollars for each violation, payable to the person aggrieved,
recoverable in an action in his name in any court of competent
jurisdiction in the State; and any agent, servant or employ6 of
a railroad company violating the act was declared guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, was to be punished by
fine or imprisonment, or both, in the discretion of the court.
The act in relation to freight, -by the second section, provided
that if the company should make charges for the shipment of
freight in violation of the act it should be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, fined not less than one hundred

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

209 U. S.

dollars, and the officer or agent should be fined or imprisoned,
or both, in the discretion of the court.
Upon the hearing of the motion for an injunction, after granting the same, the Circuit Judge wrote an opinion (155 Fed. Rep.
756), in which he reached the conclusion that § 4 of the act in regard to passenger rates was on its face unconstitutional and void.
Notwithstanding the fact that an injunction had been
granted, proceedings were thereafter taken against the appellee,
a ticket agent of the company, to punish him for not complying with the act in relation to the sale of tickets, resulting in his
conviction, as already stated.
The sheriff of Buncombe county, in whose custody the appellee was restrained, duly appealed to this court from the order
discharging the appellee from his custody.
Mr. E. J. Justice, Mr. J. H. Merrimon and Mr. C. B. Aycock
for appellant on the point of whether the remedy of habeas
corpus was proper:
The writ from a Circuit Judge to a sheriff cannot properly
require the production of a prisoner held by the sheriff for
violation of a state law, when the prisoner has had a trial with
right to sue out a writ of error to the United States Supreme
Court, or when he is about to be put upon his trial, if these facts
appear upon the face of the petition, or upon the return of the
sheriff such are found to be the facts; in such case this ousts the
jurisdiction of the Federal judge who issued the writ, and he
should so hold and discharge the writ. Whenever it appears
that the prisoner is held by an officer of the state court for a
violation of the state law, and is not denied a hearing, the jurisdiction of the Federal judge who issued the writ of habeas corpus
is ousted, and the prisoner must make his application for his
writ of habeas corpus to a state court.
This is so even though the guilt ,or innocence of the prisoner
depends upon whether the state law is in conflict with the Federal Constitution, for this can be determined by the state court,
and finally by the Supreme Court of the United States. Ex

HUNTER v. WOOD.
209 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

parte Crouch, 112 U. S. 178; Ex parte Fonda, 117 U. S. 516; Ex
parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241; In re Thomas H. Harding, 120 U. S.
782; Ex parte Ayres, 123 U. S. 443; Stale of New York v. Eno,
155 U. S. 90; Thomas v. Loney, 134 U. S. 372; Pepke v. Cronan,
155 U. S. 98; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 273; Bergemann v.
Backer, 157 U. S. 655; Whitten v. Tomlinson, 160 U. S. 234;
Minnesota v. Brundage, 180 U. S. 499; Storti v. Massachusetts,
183 U. S. 46; Reid v. Jones, 187 U. S. 151; Riggins v.' United
States, 199 U. S. 547; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516.
Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, Mr. Walker D. Hines and Mr. Alexander
P. Humphrey for appellee on the same point:
Wood's release upon writ of habeas corpus was a lawful and
essential step in carrying out the decision of the court and enforcing the jurisdiction of the court.
Revised Statutes, § 753, sanctions the use of the writ of
habeas corpus in the present case, because Wood was in custody
for an act done in pursuance of an order of a court of the United
States.
The right of the court to protect its order and process by
the issue of the writ is unquestioned.
The expediency of the action of the court is manifest.
The court had decided that the passenger-rate statute ought
not to be enforced pending final determination of the question.
This decision would have been absolutely nullified if the agents
of the railway company could have been imprisoned by the
state authorities. This is not a mere surmise as to possible
cohsequenccs, but is simply a statement of what was imminent
at the time of Wood's arrest and subsequent discharge.
Not only was the supremacy of the judicial power of the
United States menaced by the action of which the arrest and
conviction of Wood was a part, but the whole interstate commerce of the Southern Railway Company and its transportation
of the United States mails were vitally involved.
For illustrations of the discharge of persons in custody (under
state authority) upon writs of habea'r corpus by Federal courts
VOL. ccix-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

to effectuate their jurisdiction, see United States v. Spink, 19
Fed. Rep. 631; In re Houston, 94 Fed. Rep. 119; Anderson
v. Elliott, 101 Fed. Rep. 609; State v. Laing, 133 Fed. Rep.
887.
The other questions involved in this case are fully discussed
in Ex part-,Young, ante, p. 123.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
After the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States
had attached by the filing of the bill of complaint in the case
already mentioned, of the Southern Railway Company v.
McNeil and others, members of the Corporation Commission,
and after the issuing and service of the injunction, as above
stated, the defendant Wood, acting under and in obedience to
the provisions of such injunction, sold the railroad tickets at
the usual price and at the same time complied with the conditions contained in the injunction, by giving the coupons for
the difference in price, and while so complying with the terms
of such injunction was arrested and proceeded against criminally for disobedience of the act fixing rates. Being detained
in custody by virtue of this conviction by one of the police
courts of the State, he had the right to apply for a writ of habeas
corpus to the United States Circuit Judge, and that judge had
power to issue the writ and discharge the prisoner under § 753
of the Eevised Statutes of the United States (1 U. S. Comp.
Stat., p. 592), as he was then in custody for an act done pursuant to an order, process or decree of a court or judge of the
United States. See In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1. The writ being
properly issued, the judge had the right, and it was his duty,
to examine into the facts, and he had jurisdiction to discharge
the petitioner under the circumstances stated.
The other questions raised herein have been sufficiently
discussed in Ex parte Young, just decided, and require no further
attention.

GENERAL OIL CO. v. CRAIN.
209 U. S.

Syllabus.

For the reasons given in that opinion, the order appealed
from herein must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN;

dissenting.

In my judgment the appellee should have been put to his
writ of error for the review of the judgment against him in the
highest court of the State, competent tinder the state laws
to reexamine that judgment-thence to this court to inquire
whether any right belonging to him under the Federal Constitution had been violated. He should not have been discharged
on habeas corpus. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241; Minnesota v.
Brundage, 180 U. S. 499; Urquhartv. Brown, 205 U. S. 179, and
authorities cited in each case.
Upon the question as to what is and what is not a suit against
the State within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment,
my views are fully expressed in my dissenting opinion in Ex
parte Young, just decided. For the reasons there stated I
dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this case.

GENERAL OIL COMPANY v. CRAIN, INSPECTOR OF
COAL OIL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME CoURT OF THE ST.%TE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 128.

Argued January 23, 1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.

Where complainant is entitled to equitable relief against the enforcement
by state officers of an unconstitutional state statute, the judgment of the
state court dismissing the bill for lack of jurisdiction on the ground that the
suit is one against the State gives effect to the statute, denies complainant
a constitutional right and is reviewable by this court under § 709, Rev.
Stat.
A suit against state officers to enjoin them from enforcing a state statuta
which violates complainant's constitutional rights either by its terms or by

