OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion.of the Court.

209 U. S.

BATTLE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 438. Submitted January 28, 1908.-Decided March 2, 1908.

Under Article I, § 8, cl. 17, of the Federal Constitution, Congress has
power to purchase land within a State for post offices and courts by consent of the legislature of the State and to exercise exclusive legislation
over the same.
Under §§ 711 and 5339, Rev. Stat., the United States courts have exclusive jurisdiction of all offenses enumerated in § 5339, committed .in a
post office owned by the United States over which the State has ceded
jurisdiction.
The language of the Constitution, being. wide enough to authorize the purchase of land for post offices and the acceptance of a grant of jurisdiction,
the language of the statute based thereon will not be taken in any narrower sense as excluding post offices.
Even if the burden of proof be on the Government to prove the fact of a
prisoner's sanity, until evidence is given on the other side, the burden is
satisfied by the presumption arising from the fact that most men are sane,
and the trial judge is not bound to go further than to instruct the jury
that the Government is bound to prove the fact beyond reasonable doubt,
and that the jury consider all the evidence including the bearing of the
prisoner, and the manner of his own testimony.
An interruption of the court asking defendant's counsel to make a proper
argument held in this case to be justified and not a ground for exception.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Randolph Cooper for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cooley for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes up on a writ of error to the United States
Circuit Court, after a conviction of the plaintiff in error of
murder without capital punishment. The chief error assigned

is that the court proceeded without jurisdiction-an objection

BATTLE v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taken by demurrer and renewed in other forms. The crime was
eommitted upon'land bought by the United States in the city
-of Macon, on which it was building a post office and courthouse, and over which the State of Georgia had ceded jurisdiction; but it is said that murder in a post office of the United
States has not been made an offense against the United States,
whatever might be the power of Congress if it saw fit to put
itforth.
There can be no doubt of the power of Congress to purchase
land within'a State'for post offices or courts, by consent of the
legislature of the State, and to exercise exclusive legislation
over the same. Post offices are among the "other needful
buildings" for the erection of which, as well as of "forts,
magazines, arsenals, dock-yards," it is assumed that land will
be bought, and for which land has been bought by the Government all over the United States. Const., Art, I, §8, cl. 17. Indeed, this is not denied. The power to establish post offices is
given by Art. I, §'8, cl. 7, in terms. See Kohl v. United States,
91 U. S.367, 372; Burt v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 106 Massachusetts, 356; Trombley v. Humphrey, 23 Michigan, 471, 475;
Sinks v. Reese, 19 Ohio St. 306. The exclusive legislative power
and jurisdiction of the United States is equally clear. Fort
Leavenworth R. R. Co. v. Lowe, 114 U. S.525; Benson v. United States, 146 U. S.325. So that the question is only whether
the statutes of the United States extend to this case, which
was the question intended to be raised.
By Rev. Stat. § 5339, "Every person who commits murderFirst. Within any'fort, arsenal, dock-yard, magazine, or in any
other place or district of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States; . . . shall suffer death"; and
by the act of January 15, 1897, c. 29, § 1, 29 Stat. 487, in such
cases "the jury may qualify their verdict by adding thereto
'without capital punishment,' " whereupon the sentence is.: imprisonment at hard labor for life. The jurisdiction of the United States courts under these sections is exclusive. Rev. Stat.
§ 711. If the language of the Constitution is wide enough to

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

authorize the purchase of land for a post office and court-house
and the acceptance of a grant of jurisdiction, there is no reason
for taking the language of the statute in any narrower sense.
The argument, although ostensibly directed against the statute, must embrace the Constitution, and, as we have implied,
such an argument comes many years too late.:
There was an exception to a refusal of the court to instruct
the jury on the law of justifiable homicide. Sufficient instructions were given. The evidence, however, would not have
warranted such a verdict. According to the defendant's own
testimony the death was due to an accident. According to all
the other evidence, even the most favorable, the defendant was
upon a platform above Berry, and Berry either was below
standing on a beam in a very insecure place, or else was climbing up to or upon the platform, when the defendant struck him
over the head, according to several witnesses, with an iron bolt,
until he dropped fifty or sixty feet. So as to involuntary homicide. There was no evidence of such a case, and the jury under
the charge must have found that the defendant made an intentional and unjustified assault of such a kind that the probable
consequences were obvious, an assault with a deadly weapon,
that either directly caused Berry's death or brought it about
by his inevitable fall.
It also is urged that the court erred in declining to give a
somewhat confused instruction concerning sanity, that was
asked. The judge instructed the jury that the burden of proof
was on the Government to prove that fact beyond.a reasonable
doubt, and he was not called upon to go further. Until evidence is given on the other side the burden of proof is satisfied
by a presumption arising from the fact that most men are sane.
In this case there was the merest shadow of evidence that the
defendant was not of sound mind. The jury were told to consider all the evidence, including the bearing of the prisoner
and the manner of his own testimony, and the evidence relied
upon by him was stated. In the circumstances he could ask
no more.

UNITED STATES v. THAYER.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Finally an exception was taken to an interruption of the
judge, asking the defendant's counsel to make an argument
that did not tend to degrade the administration of justice.
The reference was to an appeal to race prejudice and to such
language as this: "You will believe a white man not on his oath
before you will a negro who is sworn. You can swallow those
niggers if you want to, but John Randolph Cooper will never
swallow them." The interruption was fully justified.-The
foregoing are the exceptions argued. In our opinion there is
nothing in them or in any that were taken. The judgment of
the Circuit Court must stand.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. THAYER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 390.

Argued February 25, 1908.-Decided March 9, 1908.

A man may sometimes be punished in person where he has brought consequences to pass, although he was not there in person. In re Palliser, 136
U. S. 257.
A solicitation of funds for campaign purposes made by letter in violation
of § 12 of the Civil Service Act of January 16, 1883,'c. 27, 22 Stat. 403,
is not complete until the letter is delivered to the person from whom the
contribution is solicited, and if the letter is received by one within a
building or room described in § 12 of the act the solicitation is in that
place and the sender of the letter commits the prohibited offense in the
prohibited place.
154 Fed. Rep. 508, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

The Attorney General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Cooley for plaintiff in error:
The act of mailing the letter soliciting a contribution for

