SMITH v. RAINEY.
209 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

with the opinion of the Secretary of War that the plaintiff had
no property that survived the extinction of the sovereignty of
Spain. The emoluments to which she claims a right were merely
the incident of an office, and were left in her hands only until
the proceedings for condemnation of the office should be completed and she should be paid. The right to the office was the
foundation of the right to the emoluments. Whether the office
was or was not extinguished in the sense that it no longer could
be exercised, the right remained so far that it was to be paid
for, and if it had been paid for the right to the emoluments
would have ceased. If the right to the office or to compensation for the loss of it was extinguished, all the plaintiff's rights
were at an end. No ground is disclosed in the bill for treating
the right to slaughter cattle as havihg become a hereditament
independent of its source. But of course the right to the office
or to be paid for it did not exist as against the United States
Government, and unless it did the plaintiff's case is at an end.
Judgment affirmed.

SMITH v. RAINEY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 144.

Argued March 3, 4, 1908.-Decided March 10, 1908.

A partner has a lien on the firm's assets for the repayment of his advances
to the firm, and in this case held, that the articles of copartnership, construed as a whole, provided that the partner in a land venture advancing the amount needed for the venture should have a lien on the land
regarded as assets.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lewis M. Ogden, with whom Air. James G. Flander.
was on the brief, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Mr. Walter Bennett, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment on demurrer dismissing
the appellant's complaint. The prayer of the complaint is to
have declared and foreclosed a mortgage lien on certain land
as against the defendants, who also claim liens upon the same,
and is based upon a written agreement set forth. This instrument recites that the appellant and William J. Rainey have
bought the land for $18,000, in the proportions of two-thirds
and one-third respectively, for the purpose of improving and
selling it; that the whole consideration was paid in cash by
the appellant, and that Rainey has agreed to repay the onethird with interest. It agrees that the improvements as specified shall be carried on with reasonable diligence and dispatch,
and that the appellant will make necessary advances, and
then goes on: "Fourth. That all money advanced by said
Jesse Hoyt Smith in said purchase, as well as all such as shall
be hereafter advanced by him for any of the purposes aforesaid, shall be considered and treated as a loan or loans by him,
and shall be paid to him as rapidly as possible from the receipts from the sale or sales or other income of said property
until the same shall be fully paid at six per cent. per annum*
and before any division of profits shall be made or paid."
The argument for the appellant and the decision below
turned mainly on the sufficiency of this clause to create a lien.
Standing by itself, and still more if taken only in connection
with the next clause, which provides that if all the loans have
not been repaid with interest in five years Rainey shall repay
his one-third on demand,' 'it well might be held not to be
enough. It might be held not to go beyond a personal undertaking, with an indication of a fund as the limit and only
source of repayment until five years should have elapsed.
But it is necessary to consider the whole document.
The sixth clause gives Rainey the general management,

SMITH v. RAINEY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

limiting his contracts "on account of said property" to $5,000
without Smith's written consent, requiring agreement of the
parties as to prices and terms, and providing that Rainey shall
give Smith true accounts "of. all the transactions relating to
the business" and full information, etc. The seventh clause
provides more specifically for Rainey's keeping books of account, to be always open to Smith, and for his sending -to
Smith monthly "an account in full of all transactions during
'the preceding month, including all contracts made and all
disbursements and receipts, and showing all the assets and
liabilities of the partnership." By the eighth clause Rainey
accepts the management without other remuneration than
his one-third of the net profits of the business.
The ninth clause reads as follows: "That after the repayment to the said Jesse Hoyt Smith of the said sum of eighteen
thousand dollars ($18,000) so advanced by him for the purchase of said tract and his repayment of all advances which
shall be hereafter made by him on account of said property
or said business, together with interest on all such sums at
six (6) per cent. per annum, the net profits of said land and
said business shall be divided between the parties hereto as
follows: Said Jesse Hoyt Smith shall be entitled to the twothirds (.)thereof, and said William J. Rainey the one-third (j)
thereof; and the losses if any, shall be shared between the
parties in ratio aforesaid.-It is further agreed and understood between the parties hereto that this Memorandum of
Agreement is made for the purpose of stating explicitly the
terms of copartnership on which the said Jesse Hoyt Smith
and William J. Rainey have joined in the purchase, improvement and sale of said tract."
The result of the whole agreement then is that it forms a
partnership, and that when it comes to the division of assets
the appellant is to be repaid, not merely his share of the capital,
but the whole eighteen thousand dollars and his advances
before any profits are declared. This 'means, of- course, that
he is to be repaid them out of the land or its proceeds. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S

advance of one-third of the purchase price, which appears in
the beginning as a loan to Rainey, is regarded at the end, with
manifest justice, as standing on the same footing as the later
advances made more specifically to the business. The whole
land is treated as firm capital, and the whole sum paid for is
treated as having been contributed, as in fact it was, by Smith,
and as contributed to the firm.
A partner has a lien on the firm's assets for the repayment
of his advances to the firm, and the ninth article, providing
for the repayment of the whole sum advanced by Smith for
the venture, means that he shall be repaid out of the land
regarded as assets. Taking the instrument as a whole, we are
of opinion that it gives the appellant a lien. Whether the defendants nevertheless may not be entitled to priority, is not
before us now. The only ground on which the demurrer was
or could have been sustained was that the plaintiff had no
lien at all.
Judgment reversed.
Demurrer overruled.

ARMOUR PACKING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
SWIFT AND COMPANY v. SAME.
MORRIS AND COMPANY v. SAME.
"TJDAHY PACKING COMPANY v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 467, 468, 469, 470.

Argued January 20, 21, 22, 1908.-Decided March 16, 1908.

A device to obtain rebates to be within the prohibition of the Interstate
Commerce Act of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 857, and the Elkins Act of
February 19, 1903, 32 Stat. 847, need not necessarily be fraudulent. The
term "device" as used in those statutes includes any plan or contrivance
whereby merchandise is transported for less than the ptblished rate, or
any other advantage is given to, or discrimination practiced in favor of,
the shipper.

