OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

ficer are clearly defined in the statutes to which reference is
made.
The intimidating effect of the acts of appellee upon the dealers in the syrups is set out and the detriment resulting therefrom to appellants detailed.
It is manifest from this summary of the allegations of the
bill that this is not a suit against the State. Cunningham v.
M. & B. Rd. Co., 109 U. S. 446; Pratt Food Co. v. Bird, 148
Michigan, 631. It is not a suit, as was Arbuckle v. Blackburn,
supra, to restrain a criminal prosecution. Indeed, the bill
alleges that a criminal prosecution was invited by appellant
and refused by appellee, and refused, it is alleged, to serve
the purpose of what the bill denominates a "crusade" against
the syrups of appellants, and in dereliction of duties enjoined
by the statutes of the State.
Decree reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurb in the decree.

MATTER OF ALBERT N. MOORE, AN INFANT
PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 17, Original.

Argued March 9, 1908.-Decided April 20, 1908.

In either case, the filing by the defendant of a petition for removal, the
filing by the plaintiff after removal of an amended complaint or the
giving of a stipulation for continuance, amounts to the acceptance of
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
A next friend may select one of several tribunals in which the infant's case
shall be tried, and may elect to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal
court to which the case may be removed.
While consent cannot confer on a Federal court jurisdiction of a case of
which no Federal court would have jurisdiction, either party may waive

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

. Statement of the Case.

the objections that the case was not brought in, or removed to, the particular Federal court provided by the statute.
Nothing in Ex parte Wi8ner, 203 U. S. 449, changes the rule that a party
may waive the objection to the jurisdiction in respect to a particular
court where diversity of citizenship actually exists.

THis is an application by petitioner for a writ of mandamus
to compel the Circuit Court of the United States'for the Eastern
Division of the Eastern Judicial District of Missouri to remand
the case of this petitioner. v. The Louisville and Nashville Railroad.Company to the state:court, from whence it came.
The facts are these: On November 16, 1906, Albert Newton Moore, an infant, over the age of fourteen years, presented
his petition to the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis, Missouri, stating that he desired to institute a suit in that court
against the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, and
praying for the appointment of a next friend, whereupon
George Safford, of St. Louis, was duly appointed such next
friend. Thereupon a petition was filed in said state court in
the name of Moore, by his next friend, against the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company; to recover damages for
personal injuries. After service of summons, but before answer
was due, the railroad company filed its application for removal
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern Division of the Eastern Judicial District of Missouri. This application for removal was based on the ground of diverse
citizenship, and. alleged that the plaintiff Moore was a citizen
and resident of the State of Illinois; that Safford, the next
friend, was a resident and citizen of the State of Missouri, and
the defendant, a corporation created and existing under the
laws of the State of Kentucky and a citizen and resident of
that State. The petition and bond were in due form, and the
case was transferred to the United States Circuit Court. Thereafter, and on March 22, 1907, the. plaintiff filed in that court
an amended petition. On March 25, by stipulation of the
parties, the defendant was given time to plead to the plaintiff's amended petition. Three or four times thereafter stipu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioner.

209 U. S.

lations for continuances were entered into by the counsel for
both sides. At the September term, 1907, a motion to remand, made by the plaintiff, was overruled, and a subsequent
application to reconsider this ruling was also overruled. Thereupon this application for mandamus was presented.
Mr. Thomas T. Fauntleroy and lvr. Shepard Barclay, for
petitioner, submitted:
The petition for removal discloses by affirmative facts that
the case was not removable; and hence the jurisdiction of the
state court was not divested, but continues. The Federal law
ordains that where the foundation of jurisdiction in the Federal court rests upon diverse citizenship "suit shall be brought
only in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or
the defendant." 25 Stat. c. 366, p. 434; 4 Fed. Stats. An.,
p. 366.
This is a prohibition as well as an authority. It excludes
(by use of the word "only ") Federal jurisdiction in cases where
suit is brought otherwise than as authorized, in the district
of residence bf either plaintiff or defendant.
When the removal pe'5tition was filed in the state court
this cause was not removable on the facts therein alleged.
Those facts made a clear showing that the cause was not subject to be removed. Hence the jurisdiction of the state court
was not divested. It continues, despite the filing of the insufficient and totally deficient petition for rernbVal. Crehore v.
Ohio &c. Ry., 131 U. S. 244; Ayres v. Wiswall, 112 U. S. 190,
191; Young v. Parker, 132 U. S. 267, 271; La Confiance
Comp'ie v. Hall, 137 U. S. 61; Stevens v. Nichols, 130 U. S.
230; Kellam v. Keith, 144 U. S. 568; Graves v. Corbin, 132'
U. S. 571; Jackson v. Allen, 132 U. S. 34; Mattingly -v. Railroad, 158 U. S. 53.
. A plaintiff, by appearing in the Federal court after the removal of the cause, .and obtaining leave to file an amended
complaint, does not thereby waive his right to move to remand. Endy v. Ins. Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 657; State v. Potter,

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

16 Kansas, 80; Robinson v. Walker, 45 Missouri, 120; Moulder
v. Anderson, 63 Mo. App. 39; Latham v. Edgerton, 9 Cow.
229; Cameron v. Hodges, 127 U. S. 325; Turnbull v. Ross, 141
Fed. Rep. 649; Crane Co. v. Guanica Centrale, 132 Fed. Rep.
713; Cella v. Brown, 144 Fed. Rep. 724; Mitchell Co. v. Worthington, 140 Fed. Rep. 947; Stevens v. Nichols, 130 U. S. 230;
Mattingly v. Railroad, 158 U. S. 53; Graves v. Corbin, 132
U. S. 585; Merchants Co. v. Ins. Co., 151 U. S. 384; Railway
v. Twitchell, 59 Fed. Rep. 727; Crasswell v. Belanger, 56 Fed.
Rep. 529; MacNaughton v. Railway, 19 Fed. Rep. 881; Indiana v. Lake Erie &c. R. Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 2; Frisbie v. Chesapeake &c. R. Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 1; Southworth v. Reid, 36 Fed.
Rep. .451; Bronson v. St. Croix Lumber Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 634;
Indiana v. Tolleston Club, 53 Fed. Rep. 18; Wabash R. Co. v.
Barbour, 73 Fed. Rep. 513; Mexican Nat. R. Co. v. Davidson,
157 U. S. 201; Ayers v. Watson, 113 U. S. 598; Mansfield &c.
R. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379; Martin v. Baltimore &c. R. Co.,
151 U. S. 690; 18 Enc. P1. & Pr. 369.
The right of removal is determined by the facts as disclosed
by the removal petition, and if the latter is defective in substance (and, for stronger reason, if it affirmatively shows, as
in the case at bar, that the cause is not removable), neither
consent nor failure to raise the issue of jurisdiction can impart
life to the attempt at removal. Baxter Co. v. Mg. Co., 154
Fed. Rep. 992; Yellow Aster Co. v. Crane Co., 150 Fed. Rep.
580; Goldberg Co. v. Ins. Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 834; In re Hohorst,
150 U. S. 653; Cochran v. Montgomery County, 199 U. S. 260.
If it were possible for a competent party to "waive the question of jurisdiction," such a rule could not apply to the case
of an infant plaintiff, whose incapacity to waive any substantial right the courts should always protect. Coal Co. v. Hays,
97 Alabama, 201 (12 So. Rep. 98); R. S. Mo., 1899, § 556; 10
Ency. P1. & Pr., p. 613 and cases; Nagel v. Schilling, 14 Mo.
App. 576; Ingerso.llv. Mangam, 84 N. Y. 622; Carver v. Carver,
64 Indiana, 194; Martin v. Starr, 7 Indiana, 224; Gray v.
Palmer, 9 California, 616; Frazier v. Pankey, 1 Swan (Tenn.),

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Respondent.

209 U. S.

75; Clark v. Thompson, 47 Illinois, 25; Bonnell v. Holt, 89 Illinois, 72; Dickison v. Dickison, 124 Illinois, 483; Fitch v. Cor-

nell, 1 Sawy. (U. S.) 157;. Greenman v. Harvey, 53 Illinois, 386.
The riqle in Missouri on this subject is unquestionable. Hendricks v. McLean, 18 Missouri, 32; Gibson v. Chouteau, 39
Missouri, 537; Shaw v. Gregoire, 41 Missouri, 407; Railroad v.
Campbell, Nelson & Co., 62 Missouri, 585; Campbell v. Laclede
Gas Light Co., 84 Missouri, 352; Fischer v. Siekmann, 125
Missouri, 165; Bogart v. Bogart, 138 Missouri, .419; Wright v.
Hink, 193 Missouri, 130; McMurtry v. Fairly, 194 Missouri,
502; S.C., 91 S. W. Rep. 90.
Mr. Harold R. Small, with whom Mr. Harvey L. Christie
and Mr. P. Taylor Bryan were on the brief, for respondent:
Mandamus will not serve as a writ of error to review an
exercise of judicial discretion by the United States Circuit
Court in determining that a cause should not be remanded
to the state court, unless the Circuit Court of the United States
has abused its discretion. In re Pollitz, 206 U. &.323 (1906);
Ex parte Hoard, 105 U. S.578; Taylor's Jurisdiction and Procedure in the U. S. Sup. Ct. § 316.
Where plaintiff and defendant are citizens of
different
States and are non-residents of the State and district in which
a suit is brought in the state court and the amount involed
is over $2,000, the jurisdiction of the United States Circuit
Court attaches on removal thereto by defendant if a voluntary
genral appearance is made therein by plaintiff without objection by him that he is not a resident of the district. Whelan
v. New York &c. R. Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 858; Gordon v. Longest,
16 Pet. 97; Pollard et al. v. Dwight et al., 4 Cranch, 421; Gracie
v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 699; Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300; Ex
parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S.369; Claflin v. Ins. Co., 110 U. S.
81, 88; First Nat. Bank v. Morgan, 132 U. S.141; McCormick
Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S. 41; St. Louis &c. Ry. v. McBride,
141 U. S. 127; Empire Wire Co. v. Empire Mining Co., 150
U. S. 159; Central Trust Co. v. McGeorge, 151 U. S.129; Mar-

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

495..

Opinion of the Court.

tin's Admr. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 673; Mexican Nat.
R. R. Co. v. Davidson, 157 U. S. 201; Interior Construction &c.
Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217; Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449,
discussed and distinguished.
A next friend, a citizen of Missouri, appointed under the
laws of Missouri to prosecute a suit for, an infant of Illinois
against a defendant of Kentucky, can, on removal of the
suit to the Circuit Court of the United States by the nonresident defendant on the ground of diverse citizenship, clecti
to submit to the jurisdiction, of the Circuit Court of the Uni-,
ted -States or to have the cause remanded to the state court
on the ground that the infant is not a resident of the district.
As the plaintiff chose to and did submit to the jurisdiction
of the court, and as the jurisdiction of the court thereby attached, the next friend cannot thereafter-reconsider his choice
and have the court divested of its jurisdiction by his motion
to remand the cause to the state court. IReviscd Statutes of
Missouri, 1899;.§§ 551, 552, 554, 556 and 557; Dillon v. Bowles,
77 Missouri, 603; Moon on Removal of Causes, § 70, p. 118;
Raning v. Metropolitan Street Ry., 157 Missouri, 477, 514;
Kingsbury v. Buckner, 134 U. S. 650.
MR. JUSTIcE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It was held in Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, that:
"Under sections 1, 2, 3 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat.
470, as amended by the act of March 1, 1887, 24 Stat. 552,
corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, an action commenced in a state court, by a citizen of another
State, against a non-resident defendant, who is a citizen of
a State other than that of the plaintiff, cannot be removed by
the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States."
On the authority of this case it is contended by petitioner
that as in this action none of the parties were citizens of the.
State of Missouri, it could not be removed by the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

into the Circuit Court of the United States, and that upon
the failure of the United States Circuit Court to remand the
case to the state court in which it was originally brought
mandamus from this court is an appropriate remedy. But in
that case the plaintiff never consented to accept the jurisdiction of the United States court, while in this case it is contended that both parties did so consent, and that therefore
the Uecision in that case is not controlling.
This brings up two questions, first, whether both parties
did consent to accept the jurisdiction of the United States
court; and, second, if they did, what effect such consent had
upon the jurisdiction of the United States court.
That the defendant consented to accept the jurisdiction of
the United States court is obvious. It filed a petition for removal from the State to the United States court. No clearer
expression of its acceptance of the jurisdiction of the latter
court could be had. After the removal the plaintiff, instead
of challenging the jurisdiction of the United States court by a
motion to remand, filed an amended petition in that court,
signed a stipulation giving time to the defendant to answer;
and then both parties entered into successive stipulations for
a continuance of the trial in that court. Thereby the plaintiff
consented to accept the jurisdiction of the United States court,
and was willing that his controversy with the defendant
should be settled by a trial in that court. The mere filing of
an amended petition was an appeal to that court for a trial
upon the facts av&red by him as they might be controverted
by the defendant. And this, as we have seen, was followed by
repeated recognitions of the juris(dJiction of that.court.
That a next friend may select the tribunal in which the suit
shall be brought is clear. While he may do nothing prejudicial
to the substantial rights of the minor, yet the mere selection
of one out of many tribunals having jurisdiction cannot be
considered as an act to the latter's prejudice. Certainly the
election to accept the jurisdiction of a court of the United
States is not an act prejudicial to substantial rights. In Kings-

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bury v. Buckner, 134 U. S. 650, where the next friend consented
that a case on a writ of error might be heard in some other
grand division of the Supreme Court of Illinois than the one
in which it was decided, and at a term of that court earlier
than such writ of error could ordinarily be heard, and also
waived the execution of an appeal bond by the opposite party,
it was held that the infant was bound by such action, the court
saying
"Now(p.it 680):
is contended that the Supreme Court of the State,
sitting in the Central Grand Division, could not, except by
consent, entertain jurisdiction of those appeals, and that the
next friend and guardian ad litem was incapable, in law, of
giving such consent. It is undoubtedly the rule in Illinois,
as elsewhere, that a next friend or guardian ad litem cannot, by
admissions or stipulations, surrender the rights of the infant.
The court, whose duty it is to protect'the interests of the infant, should see to it that they are not bargained away by those
assuming or appointed to represent him. But this rule does
not prevent a guardian ad litem or prochein amy from assenting
to such arrangements as will facilitate the determination of
the case in which the rights of the infant are involved."
Again, in Thompson v. Maxwell Land Grant Company, 168
U. S. 451, where the question was whether the infant was bound
by a consent decree, it was said (p. 462):
"That infants are bound by a consent decree is affirmed by
the authorities, and this notwithstanding that it does not appear that a prior inquiry was made by the court as to whether
it was for their benefit. In 1 Dan. Ch. P1. & Pr. 163, it issaid:
'Although the court usually will not, where infants are concerned, make a decree by consent, without an inquiry whether
it is for their benefit, yet when once a decree has been pronounced without that previous step, it is considered as of the
same authority as if such an inquiry had been directed, and a
certificate thereupon made that it would be for their benefit.'
"In Walsh v. Walsh, 116 Massachusetts, 377, a decree had
VOL. ccix-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

been entered as follows: 'And the plaintiff and the defendants,

.

.

Thomas Keys,

.

.

.

and also in his ca-

pacity of guardian ad litee of Bridget Walsh and William
Walsh, consenting to the following decree: And this court being
satisfied upon the representations of counsel that the decree is
fit and proper to be made as against the said Bridget and
William; it is thereupon ordered, and adjudged, and decreed,'
etc.
"On a bill of review, filed by-the minors, this decree was
challenged, among other reasons, on the ground that it appeared to have been made by consent of their guardian ad
litem and upon the, representations of counsel without proof.
The court decided against the contention, and speaking in
reference thereto, through Mr. Chief Justice Gray, said:
"'An infant is ordinarily bound by acts done in good faith
by his solicitor or counsel in the course of the suit, to the same
extent as a person of full age. Tillo4on v. Hargrave, 3 Madd.
494; Levy v. Levy, 3 Madd. 245. And a compromise, appearing to the court to be for the benefit of an infant, will be confirmed without a reference to a master; and, if sanctioned by
the court, cannot be afterwards set aside except for fraud.
Lippiat v. Holley, 1 Beav. 423; Brooke v. Mostyn, 33 Beav. 457,
and 2 De C. J. & S. 373.
" 'If the court does pronounce a decree against an infant by
consent, and without inquiry whether it will be for -his benefit,
he is as much bound by the decree as if there had been a reference to a master and a report by him that it was for the
benefit of the infant. Wall v. Bushby, 1 Bro. Ch. 484; 1 Dan.
Ch. Pr. 164. The case falls within the general rule, that a decree made by consent of counsel, without fraud or collusion,
cannot be set aside by- rehearing, appeal or review. Webb v.
Webb, 3 Swanst, 658; Harrison v. Rumsey, 2 Ves. Sen. 488;
Bradish v. Gee, Ambl. 229; S. C., 1 Ieny. 73; Downing v. Cage,
1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 165; Toder v. Sansam, 1 Bro. P. C. (2d ed.) 468;
Frenchv. Shotwell, 5 Johns. Ch. 555.'"

This also seems to be the settled law of Missouri. Raming v.

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Metropolitan Street Railway, 157 Missouri, 477. In that case
it was held that the next friend was the party to make application and affidavit for a change of venue from one state court
to another, and the court said (p. 514)"
"Section 2261, Revised Statutes 1889, requires the application and affidavits to be made by the party, and it has been
held that this means the party in his own person and not by
agent or attorney. Squire v: Chillicothe, 89 Missouri, 226. But
it has never been decided in case of an infant suing by his next
friend that the application cannot be made by the next friend.
I"A next friend is neither the agent nor attorney for his ward.
An agent or attorney derives his authority as such from his
principal, but an infant cannot appoint an agent and empower
him to do an act which in contemplation of law he is himself
incapable of doing. The next friend does not derive his authority from the infant, and his office does not rest on such
authority, either express or implied.
"It is because the law regards an infant incapable of conducting a law suit in his own behalf that it has made provisions
for the appointment of a next friend to act for him. The next
friend derives his authority from the court which appoints
him, and as he is appointed to institute and conduct the suit
it follows that he has authority to do every act which the interest of the infant demands and the law authorizes. If this.
statute is to be considered so strictly as to deny the next
friend the authority to make an application for a change of
venue, then we necessarily deny to infanits who are unable to
act for themselves the equal protection with other litigants
that the statute was designed to afford. Not only would this
be rank injustice to a class for whose interests the law has'
always been watchful, but it would raise a serious question as
to the validity of the statute itself.

.

.

.

It is intended

here to say that in the suit of an infant by his next friend,
the next friend is the proper person to make the application for
a change of venue."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Turning now to the other question, the Constitution, Art. III,
§.2, provides that the judicial power of the United States shall
extend to controversies "between citizens of different States."
Section 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 78) granted to
the Circuit Courts original cognizance "of all suits of a civil.
nature at common law or in equity . . . where the suit
is between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought, and
a citizen of another State," and added: "And no civil suit
shall be brought before either of said courts (Circuit or District) against an inhabitant of the United States, by any
original process in any other district than that whereof he
is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of
serving the writ." Section 12 (p. 79) provided "that if a suit
be commenced in any state court . . . by a citizen of the
State in which the suit is brought against a citizen of another
State," a removal might be had of the case to the next Circuit
Court to be held in the district where the suit is pending.' The
first section of the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433,
like the Judiciary Act, invested the Circuit Courts of the United
States with original cognizance of suits in which there is a controversy between citizens of different States, provided that no
civil suit should be brought before either of said courts (Circuit or District) against any person by any original process or
proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an
inhabitant, and. closed with these words, "but where the
jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only
in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the
defendant." The second sentence of § 2 prescribed, in respect
to removals, tjhat "any other suit of a civil nature, at law or
in equity, of which the Circuit Courts of the United States are
given jurisdiction -by the preceding section, and which are now
pending, or which may hereafter be brought, in any state
court, may be removed into the Circuit Courts of the United
States for the proper district by the defendant or defendants
therein, being non-residents of that State." It will thus be

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

seen that by both the act of 1789 and that of 1888 there is a
general grant to Circuit Courts of jurisdiction over controversies between citizens of different States, and in each of them
there is a limitation as to the district in which the action must
be brought. In the light of this similarity between these two
acts must the second question be cohsidered.
The contention is that as this action could not have been
originally brought in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Missouri by reason of the last provision quoted from
§ 1, it cannot under § 2 be removed to that court, as the authorized removal is only of those cases of which by the prior
section original jurisdiction is given to the United States Circuit Courts. But this ignores the distinction between the general description of the jurisdiction of the United States courts
and the clause naming the particular district in which an action must be brought.
It may be well to examine the authorities touching this
matter. In Gracie v. Palnmer, 8 Wheat. 699, the court, by
Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, held that:
"The exemption from arrest in a district in which the defendant was not an inhabitant, or in which he was not found
at the time of serving the process, was the privilege of the defendant, which he might waive by a voluntary appearance."
In Toland v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 330, Mr. Justice Barbour thus tatod the rule:
"Now, if the case were one of a want of jurisdiction in .the
court, it would not, according to well-established principles,
be competent for the parties, by any act of theirs, to give it.
But that is not the case. The court had jurisdiction over the
parties and the matter in dispute; the objection was, that the
party defendant, not being an inhabitant of Pennsylvania, nor
found therein, personal process could not reach him; and
that the process of attachment could only be properly issued
against a party under circumstances which subjected him to
process in personam. Now this was a personal privilege or
exemption, which it was competent for the party to waive.

OCTOB1LR TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Pollard v. Dwight, 4 Crandh, 421; Barry v. Foyles, 1 Pet.
311."
In Ex parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, 378, Mr. Chief Justice Waite said:
"The act of Congress prescribing the place where a person
may be sued is not one affecting the general jurisdiction of
the courts. It is rather in the nature of a personal exemption
in favor of a defendant, and it is one which he may waive.
If the citizenship of the parties is sufficient, a defendant may
consent to be sued anywhere he pleases, and certainly jurisdiction will not be ousted because he has consented."
In First National Bank of Charlotte v. Morgan, 132 U. S. 141,
145, Mr. Justice Harlan thus referred to'a kindred question:
"This exemption of national banking associations from suits
in state courts, established elsewhere than in the county or
city in which such associations were located, was, we do not
doubt, prescribed for the convenience of those institutions,
and to prevent interruptio'n in their business that might result from their books being sent to distant counties in obedience to process.

.

.

. If it (the exemption) had been

claimed by the defend'ant when appearing in the Superior
Court of Cleveland County, it must have been recognized.
The defendant did not, however, choose to claim immunity
from suit in that court. It made defense upon the merits,
and, having been unsuccessful, prosecuted a writ of error to
the Supreme Court of the State, and in the latter tribunal, for
the first time, claimed the immunity granted to it by Congress.
This was too late..

We are of opinion that its exemp-

tion from suits in other courts of the same State was a personal
privilege that it could waive, and which, in this case, the defendant did waive, by appearing and making defense without
claiming the immunity granted by Congress."
In McCormick Harvesting Machine Company v. Walthers,
134 U. S. 41, 43, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, quoting .the provisions of § 1 of the act of 1888, said:
"The jurisdiction common to all Circuit Courts of the Uni-

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ted States in respect to the subject-matter of the suit and the
.character of the parties who might sustain suits in those courts
is ,described in the section, while the foregoing clause [the last
clause in the section] relates to- the district in which a suit
may be originally brought."
In St. Louis &c. Railway Company v. McBride, 141 U. S.
127, 131, it was said:
"Assume that it is true, as defendant alleges, that this is
not a case'in which jurisdiction is founded only on the fact
that the controversy is between citizens of different States,
but that it comes within the scope of that other clause, which
.provides that 'no civil suit shall be brought before either of
said courts, against any person, by any original process or
proceeding, in any other district than that whereof he is an
inhabitant,' still the right to insist upon suit only in the one
district is a personal privilege which he may waive and he does
waive it by pleading to the merits.
"Without multiplying authorities on this question, it is obvious that the party who in the first instance appears and
pleads to the merits waives any right to challenge thereafter
the jurisdiction of the court on the ground that the suit had
been brought in the wrong district. Charlotte Nat. Bank v.
Morgan, 132 U. S. 141; Fitzgerald Construction Company v.
Fitzgerald, 137 U. S.98."
In Shaw v. Quincy Mining Company, 145 U. S.444, 453, a
case arising after the act of 1888, and in which. the defendant
promptly raised the question of jurisdiction, Mr. Justice Gray
referred to this matter in these words:
"The Quincy Mining Company, a corporation of Michigan,
having appeared specially for the purpose of taking the objection that it could not be sued in the Southern District of
New York, by a citizen of another State, there can be no question of waiver, such as has been recognized where a defendant
has appeared generally in a suit between citizens of different
States, brought in the wrong district. Gracie v. Palmer, 8

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Wheat. 699; St. Louis &c. Ry. v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127,
131, and cases cited.-"
See also Southern Pacific Company v. Denton, 146 U. S.
202.
In Central Trust Co. v. McGeorge, 151 U. S. 129, 132, an action after the act of 1888 was in force, and in which neither
party was a citizen of the State or resided in the district in
which the action was brought, Mr. Justice Shiras used this
language:
"Undoubtedly, if the defendant company which was sued
in another district than that in which it had its domicil, had,
by a proper plea or motion, sought to avail itself of the statutory exemption, the action of the court (in dismissing the complaint) would have been right. But the defendant company
did not choose to plead that provision of the statute, but
entered a general appearance and joined with the complainant in its prayer for the appointment ofa receiver, and thus
was brought within the ruling of this court, so frequently made,
that the exemption from being sued out of the district of its
domicil is a personal privilege which may be waived, and which
is waived by pleading to the merits."
In Martin's Administrator v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Company, 151 U. S. 673, where objection was made to a removal on the ground that the removal petition was filed too
late, Mr. Justice Gray, on page 688, observed:
"The time of filing a petition for the removal of a case from
a state court into the Circuit Court of the United States for
trial is not a fact in its nature essential to the jurisdiction of
the national court under the Constitution of the United States,
like the fundamental condition of a controversy between
citizens of different States. But the direction as to the time
of filing the petition is more analogous to the direction that
a civil suit within the original jurisdiction of the Circuit'Court
of the United States shall be brought in a certain district, a
non-compliance with which is waived by a defendant who
does not seasonably object that the suit is brought in the

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wrong district. Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 699; Taylor v.
Longworth, 14 Pet. 172, 174; St. Louis & San FranciscoRailway v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127; Texas & Pacific Railway v.
Cox, 145 U. S. 593, Central Trust Company v. McGeorge, 151
U. S. 129."
In Mexican National Railroad Company v. Davidson, 157
U. S. 201, 208, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, after stating that the
action could not have been originally brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States because both parties were, in the
eyes of the law, citizens of the same State, .added:
"It is true that by the first section, where the jurisdiction
is founded on diversity of citizenship, suit is to be brought
'only in the district of residence of the plaintiff or the defendant,' and this restriction is a personal privilege of the defendant and may be waived by him. St. Louis & San Francisco
Ry.. v. McBride, 141 U. S.127. Section 2, however, refers to
the first part of section 1, by which jurisdiction is conferred,
and not to the clause relating to the district in which suit may
be brought. McCormick Machine Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S.
41."
,InInterior Construction & Improvement- Company v. Gibney,
160 U. S. 217, 219, Mr. Justice Gray thus stated the law:
. "Diversity of citizenship is a condition of jurisdiction, and,
when that does not appear upon the record, the court, of its
own motion, will order the action to be dismissed. But the
provision as to the particular district in which the action shall
be brought does not touch the general jurisdiction of the court
over sueh a cause between such parties; but affects only the
proceedings taken to bring the defendant within such jurisdiction, and is a matter of personal privilege, which the defendant may insist upon, or may waive, at his election; and
the defendant's right to object that an action, within the
general jurisdiction of the court, is brought in the wrong district, is waived by enftering a general appearance, without
taking the objection."
In Ex parte Wisner, supra, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, referring

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

to St. Louis &c. Railway Company v. McBride, 141 U. S.127,
said:
"As the defendant appeared and pleaded to the merits, he
thereby waived his right to challenge thereafter the jurisdiction of the court over him on the ground that the suit had
been brought in the wrong district. And there are many
other cases to the same effect."
Several other cases in this court, as well as many in the Circuit Courts and Circuit Courts of Appeal, might be noticed,
in which a similar, ruling as to the effect of a waiver was announced. It is true that in most of the cases the waiver was
by the defendant, but the. reasoning by which a defendant is
precluded by a waiver from insisting upon any objection to
the particular United States court in which the action was
brought compels the same conclusion as to the effect of a
waiver by the plaintiff of his right to challenge that jurisdiction in case of a removal. As held in Kinney v. Columbia
Saving & Loan Association, 191 U. S.78, a petition and bond
for removal are in the nature of process. They constitute
the process by which the case is transferred from the state to
the Federal court, and if when the defendant is brought into
a Federal court by the service of original process he can waive
the objection to the particular court in which the suit is brought,
clearly the plaintiff, when brought into the Federal court by
the process of removal, may in like manner waive his objection to that court. So long as diverse citizenship exists the
Circuit Courts of the United States have a general jurisdiction. That jurisdiction may be invoked in an action originally
brought in a Circuit Court or one subsequently removed from
a state court, and if any objection arises to the particular
court which does not run to the Circuit Courts as a class that
objection may be waived by the party entitled to make it. As
owe have seen in this case, the defendant applied for a removal
of the case to the Federal court. Thereby he is foreclosed
from objecting to its jurisdiction. In like manner, after the
removal had been ordered, the plaintiff elected to remain in

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that court, and he is, equally with the defendant, precluded
from making objection to its jurisdiction.
Special reliance is placed by petitioner upon this statement
in the Wisner case (p. 460):
"But it is contended that Beardsley was entitled to remove the case to the Circuit Court, and as by his petition for
removal he waived the objection so far as he was personally
concerned that he was not sued in his district, hence that the
Circuit Court obtained jurisdiction over the suit. This does
not follow, inasmuch as in view of the intefdtion of Congress
by the act of 1887 to contract the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts, and of the limitations imposed thereby, jurisdiction
of the suit could not have obtained, even with the consent of
both parties."
It is said that here is a distinct declaration that "jurisdiction of the suit could not have obtained, even with the consent
of both parties." There was no pretense of any consent on
the part of the plaintiff in that case, and therefore this statement was unnecessary. In order, however, to prevent future
misconception we add that nothing in the opinion in the
Wisner case is to be regarded as changing the rule as to the
effect of a waiver in respect to a particular court.
It may not be amiss to note that in several of the Circuit
Courts and Courts of Appeal the Wisner case has been considered, and in all held that no change was intended by it.
Corwin M. Company v. Henrici Washer Company, opinion by
Lowell, Circuit Judge, 151 Fed. Rep. 938; Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. Fisher, 155 Fed. Rep. 68, Circuit
Court of Appeals (Sixth Circuit), opinion by Lurton, Circuit
Judge; Shanburg v. F. & C. Co., Circuit Court of Appeals
(Eighth Circuit), opinion by Riner, District Judge; McPhee &
McGinnity Company v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., Circuit Court
of Appeals (Eighth Circuit), opinion by Sanborn, Circuit Judge.
These two opinions are not yet published.
We might also refer to the several text books in which is
affirmed the general doctrine of the effect of the waiver of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE dissenting.

209 U. S.

objection to a particular court in which the suit has been
brought or to which it has been removed. We have made
these many quotations and references, not simply to establish
the doctrine itself, but to emphasize the widespread injurious
results which may be expected to follow from now enforcing
a different rule; for, if in a case between citizens of different
States, of which the Circuit Courts of the United States are
given general jurisdiction, an objection to the jurisdiction of
a particular one of those courts cannot be waived and no consent can give jurisdiction, it is clear that many judgments
have- been rendered by those courts in reliance upon such a
waiver, which will necessarily be held to be absolutely void,
and the litigation must be had over again in some other courts,
resulting, possibly, in different decisions t .'ough the disappearance of witnesses, the loss of testimony, or the running of
the statute of limitations.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern Division of the Eastern District of Missouri
was settled by the proceedings had by the two parties, and the
application for a writ of mandamus is
Denied.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissenting.

The right of action was not vested in the next friend and
the citizenship of the infant controls. The case is one, therefore, in which the plaintiff was a citizen and resident of the
State of Illinois and the defendant a corporation created and
existing under the laws of the State of Kentucky, and a citizen and resident of that State. The action was l)rought in
the Circuit Court of the city of St. Louis, Missouri, of which
State neither of the parties was a citizen. The fact that th.
next friend, who also acted as attorney-at-law for the ininor,
was a citizen of Missouri, is immaterial.
The question is whether, where neither of the parties is a
citizen of the State in which the action is brought, the juris-

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

TnE

CHIEF JusTicE. dissenting.

diction of the Circuit Court can be maintained if both parties
consent to it. Jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts depends upon
some act of Congress, Stevenson v. Fain, 195 U. S. 165, 167;
Turner v. Bank, 4 Dall. 8, 10; McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch,
504, 506; and I quote at length from the opinion of Mr. Justice
Gray in Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444, because he
therein examines the statutory provisions bearing on the question before us, saying (p. 446):
"In carrying out the provision of the Constitution which
declares that the judicial power of the United States shall extend to controversies 'between citizens of different States,'
Congress, by the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20,
§ 11, conferred jurisdiction on the Circuit Court of suits of a
civil nature, at common law or in equity, 'between a citizen
of the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another
State,' and provided that 'no civil suit shall be brought'
'against an inhabitant of the United States,' 'in any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he
shall be found at the time of serving the writ.' 1 Stat. 78, 79.
"The word 'inhabitant,' in that act, was apparently used,
not in any larger meaning than 'citizen,' but to, avoid the
incongruity of speaking of a citizen of anything less than a
State, when the intention was to. cover not only a district which
included a whole State, but also two districts in the State,
like the districts of Maine and Massachusetts in the State of
Massachusetts, and the districts of Virginia and Kentucky in
the State of Virginia, established by § 2 of the same act. 1
Stat. 73. It was held by this court from the beginning that an
averment that a party resided within the State or the district
in which the suit was brought was not sufficient to support the
jurisdiction, because in the common use of words a resident
might be a citizen, and therefore it was not stated expressly
and beyond ambiguity that he was a citizen of the State, which
was the fact on which the jurisdiction depended under the
provisions of the Constitution and of the Judiciary Act. . .
"By the act of May 4, 1858, c. 27, § 1, it was enacted that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
'THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissenting.

209 U. S.

in a State containing more than one district, actions not local
should 'be brought in the district in which the defendant resides,' or 'if there be two or more defendants residing in different districts in the same State,' then in either district. 11
Stat. 272. The whole purport and effect of that act was not
to enlarge, but to restrict and distribute jurisdiction. It applied only to a State containing two or more districts; and
directed suits against citizens of such a State to be brought
in that district thereof in which they or either of them resided.
It did not subject defendants to any new liability to be sued
out of the State of which they were citizens, but simply prescribed in which district of that State they might be sued.
"These provisions of the acts of 1789 and 1858 were substantially reenacted in sections 739 and 740 of the Revised
Statutes.
"The act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 1, after giving the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of suits 'in which .there shall be a controversy between citizens of different States,' and enlarging
their jurisdiction in other respects, substantially re~nactcd the
corresponding provision of the act of 1789 by providing that
no civil suit should be brought 'against any person,' 'in any
other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant or in which
he shall be found' at the time of service, with certain exceptions not affecting the matter now under consideration. 18
Stat. 470.
"The act of 1887, both in its original form and as corrected
in 1888, reenacts the rule that no civil suit slall be brought
against any person in any other district than that whereof
he is an inhabitant, but omits the clause allowing a defendant
to be sued in the district where he is found, and adds this
clause: 'But where the jurisdiction is founded only on the
fact that the, action is between citizens of different States, suit
shall be brought only in the district of the residence of either
the plaintiff or the defendant.' 24 Stat. 552; 25 Stat. 434.
As has been adjudged by this court, the last clause is by way

of proviso to the next preceding clause, which forbids any suit

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

THE

CHIEF JUSTICE dissenting.

to be brought in any other district than that whereof the defendant is an inhabitant; and the effect is that 'where the jurisdiction is founded upon. any of the causes mentioned in this
section, except the citizenship of the parties, it must be brought
in the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant; but
where the jurisdiction is founded solely upon the fact that the
parties are citizens of different States, the suit may be brought
in the district in which either the plaintiff or the defendant
resides.' McCormick Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S. 41, 43. And
the general object of this act, as appears upon its face, and ha,
been often declared by this court, is to contract, not to enlarge,
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts of the United States.
Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, 320; In re Pennsylvania Co.,
137 U. S. 451, 454; Fisk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459, 467.
"As to natural persons, therefore, it cannot be doubted
that the effect of this act, read in the light of earlier acts upon
the same subject, and of the- judicial construction thereof, is
that the phrase 'district of the residence of' a person is equivalent to 'district whereof he is an inhabitant,' and cannot be
construed as giving jurisdiction, by reason of citizenship, to
a Circuit Court held in a State of which neither party is a
citizen, but, on the contrary, restricts the jurisdiction to the
district in which one of the parties resides within the State of
which he is a citizen; and that this act, therefore, having
taken away the alternative, permitted in the earlier acts, of
suing a person in the district 'in which he shall be found,' requires any suit, the jurisdiction of which is founded only on
its being between citizens of different States, to be brought
in the State of which one is a citizen, and in the district therein
of which he is an inhabitant and resident."
Treating the clause that "where the jurisdiction is founded
only on the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the residence
of either the plaintiff or the defendant" as by way of proviso,
that proviso must be regarded as excluding from the enacting
clause "some possible ground of misinterpretation of it, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE dissenting.

209 U. S.

extending to cases not intended by the legislature to be brought
within its purview." Minas v. United States, 15 Pet. 445;
Austin v. United States, 155 U. S. 417, 431.

Jurisdiction of the subject-matter is given only by law and
cannot be conferred by consent, and, therefore, the objection
that a court is not given such jurisdiction: by law, if well
founded, cannot, of course, be waived by the parties.
In my judgment, § 1, in cases where litigants are citizens of
different States, confers jurisdiction only on the Circuit Court
of the district of the plaintiff's residence and the Circuit Court
of the district of the defendant's residence. And it is not conferred on the Circuit Court of the district of neither of them,
and cannot be even by consent. If this were not so, as Mr. Justice Harlan said in Bors v. Preston, 111 U. S. 255, "it would be
in the power of the parties by negligence or design to invest
those courts with a jurisdiction expressly denied to them;"
or where it may also be said, such jurisdiction was not expressly conferred. This view was expressed in Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, and although it is true that the proposition
need not have been there announced, because in that case it
was correctly decided that there was not a consent to the
jurisdiction by both parties, yet the rule was so laid down,
and the result of the opinion in this case is to disapprove of
and overrule In re Wisner, so far as that propdsition is concerned. And as I adhere to that view I dissent.
But it should be added that this case was brought in a state
court and removed by the defendant into the Federal court
under the second section of the act of August 13, 1888, which
provided "any other suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity,
of which the Circuit Courts of the United States are given
jurisdiction by the preceding section, which are now pefiding,
or which may hereafter be brought in any state court, may be
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district by the defendant or defendants therein being
non-residents of that State." And it is settled that in order to
make a suit removable under this part of the act it-must be one,

In re MOORE.
209 U. S.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE dissenting.

which the plaintiff could have brought originally in the United States Circuit Court. The right of removal given to the
non-resident defendant or defendants by the second clause of
§ 2, removing the cause from the state court to the United
States Circuit Court, is subject to the limitations of that clause
that it must, be a suit within the jurisdiction of such Circuit
Court, and that it must be removed to the proper district, and
therefore the act does not authorize him or them to remove
it to the United States Circuit Court held in a district wherein
that court was not given jurisdiction of the suit removed, or
to any other judicial district in which the suit is not pending,
as provided in § 3. Plaintiff brought his suit in a district
wherein the defendant could not be sued in the Federal court
within the meaning of the act. Hill v. Woodland Amusement
Company, 158 Fed. Rep. 530.
The proper district within the meaning of the second clause
of the second section means either of the districts made "proper
districts" by the first section of the act, and when the third
section requires the petition to be "for the removal of such
suit into a Circuit Court to be held in the district.where such
suit is .pending," it must have been contemplated that the suit
would be pending in a "proper district." It is plain that the
entire act is not to be construed as giving jurisdiction by reason
of citizenship to a Circuit Court held in a State of which neither
party is a citizen, but, on the contrary, that it restricts the
jurisdiction to the district in which one of the parties resides
within the State of which he is a citizen.
VOL. ccix-33

