LANG v. NEW JERSEY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma. 17
Oklahoma, 40.
Neither argument nor citation of authorities is necessary
to establish the correctness of the decree below, and it is
Affirmed.

L4NG v. NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 649.

Argued April 6, 1908.-Decided April 27, 1908.

It is within the power of the State to divide accused persons into two classes,
those who are, and those who may be, accused, and, if there is no discrimination within the classes,-a person in one of the classes is not denied
the equal protection of the laws because he does not have the same right
of challenge of a grand juror as persons in the other class.
As construed by the highest court of that State, the statute of New Jersey
providing that challenges to grand jurors cannot be made after the juror
has been sworn does not deprive a person accused after the grand jury
has been impanelled and sworn of the equal protection of the law because
one accused prior thereto would have the right of challenge.
68 Atl. Rep. 210, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alan H. Strong for plaintiff in error:
To challenge a grand juror for any ground of disqualification is the right at common law of any one who is under prosecution for any crime whatever. 2 Hawkins P. C., c. 25, § 16;
1 Bishop Crim. Pro. (3d ed.), § 676; 4 Crim. Law Magazine
(March, 1883), 171 &c.
If any one of the jurors of the grand jury which finds an
indictment is disqualified, he vitiates the whole, though all
the other jurors should be unexceptionable. 2 Hawkins, P. C,
c. 25, § 28; 1 Bishop Crim. Pro., §749, § 3884 (3d ed.); 1
Chitty Crim. Law, 307; State v. Rockafellow, 1 Halstead, 332;

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

209 U. S.

State v. Hoffman, 42 Vroom, 285; Crowley v. United States,
194 U. S. 461; United States v. Gale, 109 U. S. 65.
Equal protection of the laws requires that no person shall
be indicted without having had an opportunity to challenge
members 'of the grand jury who are disqualified. Gulf &c.
R. R. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe
Co., 184 U. S. 540, 560; Ohio ex rel. Lloyd v. Dollison, 194
U. S. 445, 447; 1 Bishop Crim. Pro. (3d ed.), §§ 877-879;
United States v. Gale, 109 UT S. 65, 67; Carter v. Texas, 177
U. S. 442, 447.
The construction of the law in question, as expounded by
the Court of Errors and Appeals,. imposes upon this defendant
a constructive waiver of this feature of the protection of the
laws, in advance of the exigency which renders the protection
desirable. But it is not in the power of the State to do this.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Rogers v. Alabama, 192
U. S.226; Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S.461, 474; Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635; Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S.
442; State v. Rocka/ellow, 1 Halstead, 343; Gibbs v. State, 16
Vroom, 379; State v. Hoffman, 42 Vroom, 285.
Mr. George Berdine for defendant in error:
The statute of New Jersey herein in question does not deprive the defendant of any fundamental or all-important
right. See Brown v. State, 33 Vroom, 666; Gibbs v. State, 16
Vroom, 382; State v. Hoffman, 42 Vroom, 285.
The forty-seventh section of the jury act does not in the
case sub judice violate the Fourteenth Amendment. A state
law is not within the amendment if it does not infringe "fundamental and all-important rights," or if it be based on "municipal considerations" alone, if the class upon whom the law
operates is not made by an arbitrary and unreasonable classification. First, the right to principal challenge is not a fundamental and all-important right. Hayes v. Missouri, 120
U. S. 68; Proff. Jury Trial, § 106; 12 Ency. Pl. & Prac., 475;
1 Bishop Crim. Pr., 941; Howard v. Kentucky, 200 U. S. 173.

LANG v. NEW JERSEY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Second, the statute is based on "municipal consideration"
alone. Lewis v. Missouri, 101 U. S. 22; McQuellin v. State,
8 S. & M. 587, 597; Kane v. State, 86 Mississippi, 505. Third,
if there be a class favored by the statute, it is not an arbitrarily made class. Bachiel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 41; Lewis v.
Missouri, 101 U. S. 22; Brown v. State, 175 U. S. 175; West v.
Louisiana, 194 U. S. 263.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error was convicted in the Court of Oyer and
Terminer of Middlesex County, N. J., of the crime of murder.
His conviction was successively affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State and the Court of Errors and Appeals. 68
Atl. Rep. 210. He attacks the judgment on the ground that
he has been deprived of the equal protection of the laws, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States, in that his motion to quash the indictment was denied, a plea in abatement overruled, and that he
was required to answer the indictment.
The crime for which plaintiff in error was indicted was committed after the grand jury was impanelled, and two of its
members were over the age of sixty-five years. The object
of his motion and plea was to avail himself of the limitation
of age of grand jurors prescribed by the statutes of the State
and avoid that part of the section which provides that the
exception on that ground must be taken before the jury is
1
sworn.
1 That every person summoned as a grand juror in any court of this State,
and every petit juror returned for thr trial of any action or suit of a civil
or criminal nature, shall be a citizen of this State and resident within the
county from which he shall be taken, and above the age of twenty-one and
under the age of sixty-five years; and if any person, who is not so qualified,
shall be summoned as a grand juror, or as a juror on the trial of any such
action in any of the courts of this State, or if any person shall be summoned
as a petit juror at any stated term of any court of this State, who has served
as such at any of the three stated terms next preceding that to which he

OCTOBER. TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

This provision, plaintiff in error contends, as applied by
the courts of the State, separates criminal defendants into
classes, to wit, those who are accused before the finding of the
indictment and those who are accused afterwards,, giving to
the first a privilege of challenge which is denied to the second.
And, it is contended, that there is no substantial reason for
the classification, and, therefore,, the provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, which secures to all persons the equal
protection of the laws, is violated.The Court of Errors and Appeals met this contention by
denying that the statute made the classification asserted.
The court observed that the contention rested "fundamentally
upon the proposition that the right to have the grand jury
discharged upon the statutory grounds stated in section 6 of
the jury act is for the benefit or protection of a particular class
of persons," whom, the court said, "to avoid constant paraphase," it would "call putative criminals." And "putative
criminals," the court defined, to be all who actually committed crime before the grgnd jury had been sworn, or who
were charged or suspected, or, being wholly innocent, were
ignorant of the fact that they were suspected, as well as those
who were charged with the crime during the sitting of the
grand jury. But to none of these, the court said, was the protection of the statute addressed; that its purpose was the
"furtherance of the due and efficient administration of justice for the protection of those against whom crimes might be
committed as well as those who might be charged with the
commission of such crimes." The object sought to be attained, it was further said, by the disabilities expressed in
the statute, "was to. secure an efficient and representative
may be summoned, it shall be good cause of challenge to any such juror,
who shall be discharged upon such challenge being verified according to
law, or on his own oath or affirmation in support thereof; provided, that no
exception to any such juror on account of his citizenship or age, or any
other legal disability, shall be allowed after he has been sworn or affirmed.
Act of April 21, 1876, P. L. 360; 2 General Statutes of New Jersey, 1896, p.
1853, § 47.

LANG v. NEW JERSEY.
209 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

body of citizens to take part in the due administration of the
law for the benefit of all who were entitled to its protection,
and not specially or even primarily for the benefit of those
charged with its violation."
This we accept as the proper construction of the statute,
and see no unconstitutional discrimination in it. It is to the
effect that certain qualifications have been deemed advisable
in order to make the grand jury a more efficient instrument
of justice-qualifications which have no relation to any particular defendant or class of defendants. And the practical is
regarded. Objection may be taken before a jury is sworn,
but not afterwards, and the statute uses for its purpose the
Prosecutor of Pleas, those who stand accused of crime and
even, the court says, an amicus curie. A grand jury thus secured will have all the statutory qualifications in most cases
for 'all defendants; and besides the discrimination is very unsubstantial, as was pointed out in Gibbs et al. v. State, 16 Vroom,
382.
Counsel has not been able to point out what prejudice results to defendants from the enforcement of the statute. He
urges a verbal discrimination, and invokes the Fourteenth
Amendment against it. The statute, he in effect says, fixes
the limit of service at twenty-one and sixty-five years, and
confesses the latter is "somewhat early," but seeks to sustain
his contention as follows: "And though it may not be possible
in any case to show that the fact of the juror being above the
lawful age has worked injustice to the defendant, he is not
required to show it. It is enough that a statute has been
transgressed which was enacted, in some measure at least,
for his benefit. The due observance of that statute is part of
the protection of the laws, to which, equally with all others
in like circumstnces, he is
entitled under the guaranty of the
'
Fourteenth Amendment.
But this proceeds upon a misconception of the purpose of
the statute, as was pointed out by the Court of Errors and
Appeals, and of the power of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Let it be granted, in deference to the argument of counsel,
that the statute makes two classes-those who are accused of
crime and those that may be accused-there is certainly no
discrimination within the classes, and the only question can
be whether, in view of the purpose of the statute, is the classification justified? In other words, whether the persons constituting the classes are in different relations to the purpose of
the law. That they are we think is obvious; and, as we have
said, the law neither offers or withholds substantial rights.
It constitutes one of its instrumentalities of persons having
certain qualifications which cannot affect essentially the charge
against or the defense of any defendant. It is the conception
of the State that a grand jury so constituted would be more
efficient in the administration of justice than one not so constituted, but that there would be counteracting disadvantages
if the right of challenge should be extended beyond the date
of the empanelment of the jury. We think it is competent
for the State to have so provided.
It will be observed that the provision of the statute is that
no exception to a juror "on account of his citizenship or age
or any other legal disability [italics ours] shall be allowed after
he has been sworn." It is hence contended that "the principle of the decision" under review is not limited to the ".statutory disqualifications." The court said, however, "whether
the words of the statute, 'any other disability,' include the
common law grounds of prejudice, malice and the like, and,
if so, what would be the rights and remedies of an indicted
person who had had no opportunity to challenge a given juror
upon these personal grounds is not involved in the facts of
the present case or in the line of reasoning upon which, in our
judgment, its decision should be placed." In connection with
this comment see Lee v. State of New Jersey, 207 U. S. 67.
Judgment affirmed.

