WARE & LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

had become dormant, while both parties were recognizing
their binding oblgation and doing all that the law permitted,
to effect their satisfaction, and had entered into a contract
which prevented the judgment creditors from taking steps
to avail themselves of their right to collect their judgments by
execution or by writ of mandamus.
For these reasons the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma Territory is
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Supreme Court of the
State of Ok'ahoma for further proceedings in accordance
with this opinion.

WARE AND LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
WARE AND LELAND v. STATE OF ALABAMA'.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
Nos. 173, 174.

Submitted March 10, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.

Contracts for sales of cotton for future delivery, w'hich do not oblige interstate shipments, are not subjects of interstate commerce, nor does the
fact that a delivery may be made by means of interstate carriage make
them so; and a state tax on persons engaged in buying and selling cotton
for future delivery held in this case not to be a regulation of interstate
commerce and as such beyond the power of the State. Paul v. Virginia
(insurance policy case), 8 Wall. 168, followed; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321;
Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507, distinguished.
146 Alabama, 163, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Burwell Boykin Boone for pla'ntiffs in error:
The license tax in question, sought to be collected from the
plaintiffs in error, is a burden upon and a regulation of interstate commerce, and in conflict with Artic'e I, Section 8, para-

OCTOBER TERM, 19I.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

graph 3, of the Constitution of the United States. Championv.
Ames, 188 U. S.351; Hanley v. Kansas City Southern R. R.
Co., 187 U. S. 619; Stradford v. City Council of Montgomery,
110 Alabama, 619; Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27; Brenian
v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187
U. S. 622.
No counsel appeared for defendants in error.
MR.JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were submitted together and are in all. respects
similar, and involve the constitutional validity of subdivision 40
of an. act of the legislature of Alabama imposing license taxs,
"to better provide for the revenue of the State," General
Acts, 1903, p. 207, which reads as follows:
"For each person engaged in the business of buying and
selling futures for speculation or on commission, either for
themselves or for other persons, and each place of business
commonly known as cotton exchanges, or stook exchanges,
and sometimes qalled 'bucket shops,' in towns and cities of
twenty thousand inhabitants or more, five hundred dollars;
in all other towns .and cities, two hundred and fifty dollari;
but this shall not be held to legalize any contract which would
otherwise be, invalid."
In case No. 173 the action was brought by Mobile County
for 'the recovery of the defendants' license tax for the year
1903, for engaging in the business of buying and selling futures
on commission for other persons in the city of Mobile. The
other case (No. 174) was an action by the State. Plaintiffs recovered in the Circuit Court and both judgments were affirmed
by the Suprefne Court. 146 Alabama, 163.
The cases were submitted upon an agreed statement of the
facts as follows:
"During' the whole of the year 1903 defendants had ah
office in the city of Mobile, in the county of Mobile and State

WARE & LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
209 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Alabama: they also had offices in the city of New York in
the State of New York; and in the city of New Orleans in the
State of Louisiana, and in the city of Chicago in the State of
Illinois, each of which offices was connected by private telegraph wires with said Mobile office. Said Mobile, Alabama,
office was in the charge of their agent, one Robbins, and was
engaged in the business of buying and selling cotton for future
'delivery, on commission, for the public generally and for
special customers, said business being conducted in the following way and in no other way: They would undertake,
through their agent, to buy or sell a cotton future contract
for a customer in the Cotton Exchange in New York or in
New Orleans, as he might select, he making at the time a deposit of money with them as a margin to protect them against

loss in making such transaction for him. When the customer
gave the order to Ware and Leland, either for a sale or a purchase of a future contract, it was not usual for anything to
be said between them about an actual delivery of the cotton,
but when the transaction was commenced by a purchase or
sale of the cotton Ware and Leland would immediately furnish to the customer a memorandum thereof, partly written
arid partly printed, upon which the following stipulations were
printed: 'On all marginal business, we reserve the right to
close transactions without further notice when margins are
about exhausted, and to settle contracts in accordance with
the rules and customs of the exchange on which the order is
placed, it being understood and agreed in all trades that actual
delivery is contemplated,' and 'All purchases and sales made
by us for you are made in accordance with and subject to the
rules, regulations and customs of the exchange on which the
order is placed, and the rules, regulations and requirements
of the board of managers of said exchange, and all amendments that may be made thereto.' Such agent would thereupon transmit such order by their private telegraph line to
the defendants' office in the city without the State of Alabama
selected for such transaction; that such order would be there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

upon executed by defendants by the purchase or sale, as directed, of a future cotton contract for such customer in the
cotton exchange of the city to which such order was sent, and
subject to the rules and regulations of such cotton exchange,
which rules and regulations may be introduced in evidence by
defendants in this cause; that said contract would be held by
defendants for such customer until he ordered the same closed
out, when they would sell or buy another cotton contract
against it as might be necessary to cover the same or close it
out, or receive or deliver the cotton on said contract. If a
profit was made on the transaction defendants remitted the
same to its agent in Mobile, who paid it over to the customer;
if a loss was made, it was taken by the agent out of the customers' margin, or, if that was insufficient therefor, the customer was called on for the balance. Said business was done
on a commission paid defendants by the customers.
"No actual delivery of cotton or grain was ever made on
any such contracts, except in a few instances, when such deliveries were made where the contracts were executed, to wit:
in New York, New York, or in New Orleans, Louisiana, or
Chicago, Illinois. When any such delivery of cotton was made
to defendants for the customer on a purchase by him, it was
held by the defendants for account of the customer at the place
of delivery, either in New York, New York, or in New Orleans,
Louisiana, until ordered sold by the customer, and was then
sold by them there for the account of the customer, and the
proceeds accounted for by them to such customer. When
they made delivery of cotton on a sale of futures made by them
for a customer, the cotton was shipped by the customer for
whom such sale was made from Alabama to the place of sale
and there delivered through defendants to the buyer.
"A similar future grain business was done by defendants
at their said office in Mobile, Alabama, for customers through
their office in Chicago, in the State of Illinois-said orders
being executed on the Chicago, Illinois, Board of Trade, and
subject to its rules and regulations, which contemplated and

WARE & LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provided for the actual receipt or delivery of grain bought or
sold therein-such delivery to be made in Chicago, Illinois.
"During the whole of the year 1903 said city of Mobile,
Alabama, was a city of more than twenty thousand inhabitants.
"Defendant paid to plaintiff a license tax of one hundred
dollars for doing such business in said city for the year 1903,
which payment was made prior to the fourth day of March,
1903; they have not paid any further license tax to plaintiff
for doing such business in said year."
Upon the trial of the action, in addition to the foregoing
agreed facts, the counsel for the plaintiff admitted that the
rules and regulations of the New York Cotton Exchange,
New Orleans Cotton Exchange and Chicago Board of Trade,
respectively, provided "that contracts executed therein should
be in writing; and also provided that in every cotton or grain
contract for future delivery executed and entered into in said
exchange or board of trade, it should be stipulated, agreed and
understood that an actual receipt and delivery of the cotton
or grain was to be had, and that said contracts were transferable and assignable."
The sole question here presented is, whether the statute in
question is an attempt to regulate interstate commerce, for
if the plaintiffs in error are shown by the foregoing agreed
facts to be engaged in interstate commerce then the statute
is void, as an attempt by a State to regulate the commerce
which the Constitution of the United States places within the
exclusive control of Federal authority.
Interstate commerce must be such as takes place between
States as differentiated from commerce wholly within a State.
It must have reference to interstate trade or dealing, and if
the regulation is not such, and comprehends only commerce
which is internal, the State may legislate concerning it. In
each case the recurring question is, on which side of the line
does the commerce under investigation fall?
It is unnecessary to review the former decis;.ons of this court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

as that has been done in very recent cases such as the Lottery
case, 188 U. S.321, where it was he:d that the transportation
of lottery tickets was interstate commerce, and as such subject to regulation by act of Congress. In that case the Federal
act, prohibiting the transmission of lottery tickets, was sustained, because of the actual carriage in interstate traffic of
the tickets themselves, and in concluding the opinion of the
majority of the court Mr. Justice Harlan said (p. 363):
"The whole subject is too important, and the questions suggested by its consideration are too difficult of solution, to
justify any attempt to lay down a rule for determining in advance the validity of every statute that may be enacted under
the commerce clause. We decide nothing more in the present
case than that lottery tickets are subjects of traffic among
those who choose to sell or buy them; that the carriage of such
tickets by independent carriers from one State to another is
therefore interstate commerce; that under its power to regulate commerce Among the several States Congress-subject
to the limitations imposed by the Constitution upon the ex-.
ercise of the powers granted-has plenary authority over such
commerce and may prohibit the carriage of such tickets from
State to State; and that legislation to that end, and of that
character, is not inconsistent with any limitation or restriction
imposed.upon the exercise of the powers granted to Congress."
And in Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S.640, it was held that a
telegraph company, whose business is the transmission of
messages from one State to another, invested with the powers
and privileges conferred by Congress, could not be compelled
to pay a license tax by the State. And in PensacolaTelegraph
Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., it was held that interstate 'telegraphic communications, conducted by companies
organized for that purpose, was commerce within the regulating power of Congress. The Pensacola case was affirmed in
Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460, in which case Mr. Chief
Justice Waite, speaking for the court, said, p. 464: "A telegraph company occupies the same relation to commerce as

WARE & LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
209 U. S.

411 '

Opinion of the Court.

a carrier of messages that a railroad company does as a carrier
of goods."
While the general principles applied in these cases are not to
be denied, there is a class of cases which hold that contracts
between citizens of different States are not the subjects of
interstate commerce, simply because they are negotiated between citizens of different States, or by the agent of a company
in another State, where the contract itself is to be completed
and carried out wholly within the borders of a State, although
such contracts incidentally affect interstate trade.
As in the cases involving insurance policies, it has been held
'that issuing them in one State and sending them to another,
to be there delivered to the insured upon payment of premium,
is not a transaction of interstate commerce. Paul v. Virginia,
8 Wall. 168; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; New York
Life Insurance Co. v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389.
In Paul v. Virginia, Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion
of the court, said (p. 183):
"Issuing a policy of insurance is not a transaction of commerce. The policies are simple contracts of indemnity against
loss by fire, entered into between the corporations and the
assured, for a, consideration paid by the latter. These contracts are not articles of commerce in any proper meaning of
the word. They arc not subjects of trade and barter offered
in the market as something having an existence and value independent to the parties to them. They are not commodities
to be shipped or forwarded from one State to another, and
then put up for sale. They are like other personal contracts
between parties which are completed by their signature and
the transfer of the consideration. Such contracts are not interstate transactions, though the parties may be domiciled in
different States. The policies do not take effect-are not
executed contracts-until delivered by the agent in Virginia.
They are, then, local transactions, and arc governed by the
local law. They do not constitute a part of the commerce
between the States any more than a contract for the purchase

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

and sale of goods in Virginia, by a citizen of New York whilst
in Virginia, would constitute a portion of such commerce."
In Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648, it was said:
"If the power to regulate interstate commerce applied to
all the incidents to which said commerce might give rise and
to all contracts which might be made in the course of its
transaction, that power would embrace the entire sphere of
mercantile activity in any way connected with trade between
the States; and would exclude State control over many contracts purely domestic in their nature. The business of insurance is not commerce. The contract of insurance is not an
instrumentality of commerce. The making of such a contract
is a mere incident of commercial intercourse, and in this respect there is no difference whatever between insurance against
fire and insurance against 'the perils of the sea.'
These cases are not in conflict with those in which it is held
that the negotiation of sales of goods in a State by a person
employed to solicit for them in another State, the goods to
be shipped from the one State to the other, is interstate commerce. Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120 U. S.
489; similar cases are Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507,
and Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622. In these cases
goods in a foreign State are sold upon orders for the purpose
of bringing them to the State-which undertakes to tax them,
and the transactions are held to be interstate commerce, because the subject-matter of the dealing is goods to be shipped
in interstate commerce; to be carried between States and delivered from vendor to purchaser b means of interstate carriage.
But how stands the present case upon the facts stipulated?
The appellants are brokers who take orders and transmit
them to other States for the purchase and sale of grain or cotton
upon speculation. They are, in no just sense, common carriers
of messages, as are the telegraph companies. For that part of
the transactions, inerely speculative and followed by no actual
delivery, it cannot be fairly contended that such contracts are

WARE & LELAND v. MOBILE COUNTY.
209 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the subject of interstate commerce; and concerning such of
the contracts for purchases for future delivery, as result in
actual delivery of the grain or cotton, the stipulated facts
show that when the orders transmitted are received in the
foreign State the property is bought in that State and there
held for the purchaser. The transaction was thus closed by a
contract completed and executed in the foreign State, although
the orders were received from another State. When the delivery was upon a contract of sale made by the broker, the
seller was at liberty to acquire the cotton in the market where
the delivery was required or elsewhere. He did not contract
to ship it from one State to the place of delivery in another
State. And though it is stipulated that shipments were made
from Alabama to the foreign State in some instances, that was
not because of any contractual obligation so to do. In neither
class of contracts, for sale or purchase, was there necessarily
any movement of commodities in interstate traffic, because
of the contracts made by the brokers.
These contracts are not, therefore, the subjects of interstate
commerce, any more than in the insurance cases, where the
policies are ordered and delivered in another State than that
of the residence and office of the company. The delivery,
when one was made, was not because of any contract obliging
an interstate shipment, and the fact that the purchaser might
thereafter transmit the subject-matter of purchase by means
of interstate carriage did not make the contracts as made and
executed the subjects of interstate commerce.
We are of the opinion that the Supreme Court of Alabama
correctly held that the transactions of the plaintiffs in error
were not interstate commerce, and the judgments in both
cases are
Affirmed.

