BOSQUE v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

BOSQUE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 147.

Submitted January 29, 1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.

Under the Treaty of Paris of 1898, between the United States and Spain,
a Spanish resident of the Philippine Islands, who left there in May,
1899, without making any declaration of intention to preserve his allegiance to Spain and remained away until after the expiration of eighteen
months after the ratification of the treaty continued to be a Spaniard,
and did not, even though he intended to return, become a citizen of the
islands under the new sovereignty, and therefore is not eligible to admission to practice at the bar under the rules established by the military
and civil authorities of the Philippine Islands.
The laws applicable to other foreigners referred to in Article XIX of the
treaty referred not to Spanish laws but to the laws to be enacted by the
new sovereignty. Spaniards only became foreigners after the cession.
The right to practice law is not property within the protection of Article VII
of the treaty.
1 Philippine Rep. 88, affirmed.

PLAINTIFF in error applied to the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands in February, 1901, to be admitted to practice law in the Philippine courts. His petition was supported
by various certificates as to professional qualifications and
good character, and set forth that petitioner was a graduate
of the University of Manila; and practiced law in the Philippine Islands from 1892 until the cessation of the Spanish courts;
"that he is of good character, and has not been inscribed in
the record of Spanish nationality, in consequence whereof I
have lost this, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty
of Paris, and therefore I am neither a subject nor citizen of
any foreign government, and consequently, in my opinion,
have the condition required by General Order No. 29, July 19.
1899, of the United States Military Government in these islands for continuing the practice of my profession."
July 27, 1901, the petition was denied by the Supreme Court,
without opinion, on the ground that the applicant "does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

209 U. S.

possess the political qualifications required by law for the practice of his profession in the Philippine Archipelago."
Plaintiff subsequently filed a petition for rehearing, accompanied by additional certificates and affidavits as to his professional and personal reputation. In this petition he claimed
to be entitled to practice his profession under Article IX of the
Treaty of Paris and under § 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
which had been enacted since the date of his first petition.
The petition for rehearing was denied by the court in an opinion rendered by the Chief Justice, 1 Philippine Rep. 88, which
held that petitioner had not lost his Spanish nationality, but
was a Spanish subject upon an equal footing with other foreign
residents who were not entitled to practice the legal profession
under the law, either prior or subsequent to the Treaty of
Paris.
In January, 1906, plaintiff in error presented to the court
the following motion:
"Appears Juan Garcia Bosque and asks that the Honorable
Supreme Court be pleased to declare that the petitioner has
a right to practice as an attorney at law in the Philippines before all courts. This motion is founded upon the accompanying
affidavit."
The affidavit referred to stated that the afflant, on April 10,
1899, and for eight years immediately prior thereto, had practiced law continuously before the courts of the islands. The
Supreme Court overruled the motion, and thereupon plaintiff
sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Edgar W. Camp for plaintiff in error:
The qualifying clause, in the Treaty of Paris, "being subject in respect thereof to such laws as are applicable to other
foreigners," is not conclusive against the right to continue the
practice of his profession as claimed by plaintiff in error, because, first, there is nothing in the context of the article
quoted nor elsewhere in the treaty to warrant such a construction; secondly, because no such intention is to be imputed to

BOSQUE v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the framers of the treaty; for it were wholly unnecessary to
specify rights which any and all foreigners enjoy, and wholly
unjust to reduce to naught by the mere stroke of a pen all the
rights incident to citizenship created under the flag of the former sovereign; and, lastly, even though such a construction
be admissible there existed at the time of the ratification of
the treaty no law disqualifying foreigners from becoming
members of the bar in the Philippine Islands. Plan of Studies
(Plan de Estudios) of 1836; Royal Decree of July 26, 1853;
Vol. 5, Diccionario de Alcubilla, p. 423; Same, Vol. 6, p. 798;
Vol. 1, Diccionario de Berriz (1888), p. 1341; Diccionario de
Alcubilla, p. 873, (Vol. 6); Vol. 3, p. 348; Vol. 5, p. 428; Vol. 3,
p. 357; Vol. 2,'p. 566.
. The Supreme Court of the Philippines has neither power,
jurisdiction nor authority to render in any proceeding had in
this matter, a decision the effect of which would be to deprive
plaintiff in error of the right -to practice his profession. Sections 21 to 25 of the Code specify the only grounds upon and
the only manner in which a lawyer may be deprived of the
right to practice his profession.- As well might the Philippine
Supreme Court have declared that plaintiff in error was disqualified to practice because he professed a certain religiou'
belief as to have assigned the reasons-it did for such alleged
disqualification. There can, therefore, be no ,question of res
adjudicata herein.
The right of plaintiff in error to practice his profession is a
vested right of which he may be deprived only by due process
of law. For the proper exercise and enjoyment of ,this right
the recognition by the Insular Supreme-Court, in the manner
and form herein prayed, is essential. Cummings v. State of
Missouri, 4 Wall. 356; Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 366; Ely's Administrator v. United States, 171 U. S. 220-223; Smith v. United States, 10 Peters, 330; Soulard v. United States, 4 Peters,
511; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 411; Bryan v. Mennett. 112
U. S. 179.
And in Article VIII (2nd par.) of the Treaty of Paris is

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for United States.

209 U. S.

found an express declaration that the relinquishment or cession of sovereignty "cannot in any respect impair the property or rights which by laws belong to the peaceful possession
of property of all kinds

.

.

.

of private

individuals of

whatsoever nationality such individuals may be."
The Solicitor General for United States:
Plaintiff in error did not become a citizen of the Philippine
Islands under the new sovereignty, but continued to remain a
Spaniard. His Spanish nationality could only be lost by
continuous residence in the islands and failure to declare his
intention of retaining it within the time specified (Art. IX,
Treaty of Paris, 30 Stat. 1754). He was absent from the
islands during the whole of the period allowed for making such
declarations, and remained away for more than a year and a
half. It makes no difference that he intended to return; it
was not necessary in order to retain his Spanish nationality
that he should remain away permanently.
As a Spaniard, he is not entitled to practice law in the Philippines. Under the Spanish law foreigners were not allowed
to practice the legal profession in Spain and her colonies.
' oyal Order of July 26, 1853; Diccionario de Alcubilla, Vol. 5,
P. 423; Law of Public Instruction, Art. 96, id., Vol. 6, p. 798;
decree of February 6, 1869, Alcubilla, Vol. 6, p. 873; Art. 25,
Constitution of 1869; Art. 27, Civil Code of Spain; Royal Orders of October 10, 11, 1879, Alcubilla, Vol. 6, pp. 1135-1136.
That point is immaterial, however, because the provision in
Article IX of the Treaty of Paris that Spanish subjects in the
Philippines shall have the right to carry on their professions,
etc., subject to "such laws as are applicable to other foreigners" refers to the laws enacted by the new sovereignty.
Spaniards were not "foreigners" at the time of the treaty,
but only became so after the cession of the islands, and it is
evident that the words meant such laws as shall be applicable
to other foreigners.
Under the laws and regulations on the subject, put in force

BOSQUE v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the Philippines first by the military and then by the civil
authorities, plaintiff is not entitled to the privilege which he
seeks. General Orders, No. 29, series of 1899, §§ 2-6; Philippine Code of Civ. Pro., §§ 13, 15, 19; 1 Pub. Laws, p. 378.
The explicit reservation as to aliens runs through all the laws
and regulations, making it clear that the intention was and
had been from the first to require all members of the bar to
be either citizens of the United States or those enjoying the
status of natives of the Philippines, and to exclude all foreigners
from the legal profession in the islands.
The effect of the decision of the Philippine court was not to
deprive plaintiff of the right to practice his profession. The
privilege ceased by virtue of the stipulations of the treaty of
Paris and the subsequent laws and regulations of the new
sovereignty. Those sections of the Code which prescribe the
grounds upon which'a lawyer may be deprived of the right to
practice relate to the removal or suspension from the bar of
attorneys already practicing, and have no application to the
case of one who has been denied admission to practice at all
The right claimed by plaintiff is not a vested or property
right. Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333; Bradwell v. United
States, 16 Wall. 130; Languille v. State, 4 Tex. App. 312;
State v. Gazley, 5 Ohio, 14; Cohen v. Wright, 22 California, 293;
Sprayberry v. Atlanta, 13 S.E. Rep. 197. The property rights
intended to be protected by the stipulation in the eighth article of the Treaty of Paris do not relate to the rights connected
with trades and professions. As to definition of propiedad,
used in the Spanish text of the treaty; see 4 Escriche, 736.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error contends: (1) That his right to practice
law in the Philippine Islands was expressly guaranteed by
Article IX of the Treaty of Paris and recognized by § 13

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of theCourt.

209 U. S.

of the Philippine Code of Civil Procedure; (2) That the Supreme
Court of the Philippine Islands had no power, jurisdiction or
authority to deny or deprive a lawyer of his right to practice
his profession, except for the reasons and in the manner provided in the Civil Code; (3) That plaintiff in error's right so
to practice was a vested right, of which he could be deprived
only by due process of law.
Article IX of the Treaty of Paris, 30 Stat. 1754, provided:
"Spanish subjects, natives of the peninsula, residing in the
territory over which Spain by the present treaty relinquishes
or cedes her sovereignty, may remain in such territory or may
remove therefrom, retaining in either event all their rights
of property, including the right to sell or dispose of such property or of its proceeds; and they shall also have the right to
carry on their industry, commerce and professions, being subject in respect thereof to such laws as are applicable to other
foreigners. In case they remain in the territory they may
preserve their allegiance to the crown of Spain by making,
before a court of record, within a year from the date of the
exchange of ratifications of this treaty, a dechination of their
decision to -preserve such allegiance; in default of which declaration they shall be held to have renounced it and to have
adopted.' the nationality of the territory in which they may
reside.
"The civil rights and political status of the- native inhabitants of the territories hereby ceded to the United States shall
be determined by the Congress."
The record shows that plaintiff in error left the Philippines
for Europe on May 30, 1899, and remained away, until January 11, 1901. In the affidavit accompanying his petition for
rehearing he states that the reasons for his departure from .the
islands were the unsettled conditions prevailing there and the
state of his health; that,*hile abroad he lived in France and
Spain, residing for the most part in Barcelona; that he did not
return sooner to the Philippines because of newspaper reports
as to personal unsafety in Manilla. In his first petition he

BOSQUE v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claims to have lost his Spanish nationality because he had not
made the necessary declaration of intention to preserve his
allegiance to Spain, but that requirement was meant only for
those who remained in the territory, and was not necessary
in his case, since he removed from the islands.
In the opinion of the Philippine Supreme Court he carried
his Spanish nationality with him on his departure, and it
could only be lost by continuous residence in the islands and
failure to declare his intention of retaining it within the time
specified. But plaintiff was absent from the Philippines during
the whole of the period allowed for making such declaration, and
remained away several months after its expiration. It follows
that he did not become a citizen of the islands under the new
sovereignty, but that he. continued to remain a Spaniard.
The fact that he intended to return does not affect this conclusion. It was not necessary in order to retain his Spanish
nationality that he should remain away permanently, and he
was absent for more than a year and a half.
The question whether aliens were permitted to practice law
in Spain and her colonies is elaborately argued, but it is quite
unnecessary to pass upon it, since it is manifest that the words
in Article IX of the treaty, "such laws as are applicable to
other foreigners," referred not to the Spanish law, but to the
laws enacted by the new sovereignty. Spaniards only became
"foreigners" after the cession of the islands, and it is obvious
that the words meant such laws as shall be applicable to other
foreigners.
We think it evident that plaintiff under the laws and regulations on the subject put in force in the Philippines, first by
the military and then by the civil authorities, was not entitled
to the privilege which he sought.
On July 19, 1899, the military governor promulgated, in
respect to the admission of lawyers, certain regulations, known
as "General Orders, No. 29, Series of 1899," § 2 of which provides as follows:
"Any resident of the Philippine Islands, not a subject or
VOL. ccix-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

citizen of any foreign government, of the age of 23 years, of good
moral character, and who possesses the necessary qualifications
of learning and ability, is entitled to admission as attorney
and counselor in all of the courts of these islands."
By § 3 every applicant is required to produce satisfactory testimonials of good moral character and to undergo
a strict examination in open court by the justices of the Supreme Court. If upon examination he is found qualified he
shall be admitted to practice in all the courts of the Philippine
Islands, and a certificate of the record of the court's order to
that effect shall be given him, which certificate shall be his
license. (Sec. 4.) Section 5 is as follows:
"Every resident of these islands, not a citizen or subject of
any foreign government, who has been admitted to practice
law in the Supreme Court of the United States, or in any Circuit Court of Appeals, Circuit Court or District Court thereof,
or in the highest court of any State or Territory of the United States, may be admitted to practice in the courts of these
islands upon the production of his license. Likewise all persons
duly accredited as lawyers in the Philippine Islands on the
31st day of January, 1899, who are residents of said islands,
and not subjects or citizens of another government, may be admitted as attorneys and counselors in all the courts of the
islands: Provided, that all applicants under this section shallfurnish satisfactory evidence of good moral character and professional standing and take the prescribed oath: And rovided
further, That the court may, if it deems advisable, examine
the applicant as to his qualifications.".
Every person upon admission must _take an oath of allegiance to the United States. (See. 6.)
It is conceded that plaintiff did not become a member of
the bar under the provisions of. this law.
General Orders, No. 29, was followed by Act No. 190 of the
Philippine Commission, being the Code of Civil Procedure for
the Philippine Islands (1 Pub. Laws, p. 378), § 13 of which is
as follows:

BOSQUE v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The following persons, if not specially declared ineligible,
are entitled to practice law in the courts of the Philippine
Islands:
"1. Those who have been duly licensed under the laws and
orders of the islands under the sovereignty of Spain or of the
United States and are in good and regular standing as members of the bar of the Philippine Islands at the time of the adoption of this code.
"2. Those who are hereafter licensed in the manner herein
prescribed."
It will be perceived that the applicants must be "in good
and regular standing as members of the bar of the Philippine
Islands at the time of the adoption of this code." This description does not apply to plaintiff in error. The Civil Code was
enacted August 7, 1901, to take effect September 1, 1901. He
had been denied permission to practice law by the Supreme
Court of the Philippines on July 27, 1901, upon the ground
.that he did not possess the political qualifications required
by law. He was not, therefore, at the date of the adoption of
the code in good and regular standing as a member of the bar.
It is true § 13 declares "those who have been duly licensed
under the laws and orders of the islands, under the sovereignty
of Spain," etc., are entitled to practice law, but that applies.
only to persons "not specially declared ineligible," and plaintiff in error Was declared ineligible because a citizen or subject of a foreign government.
Reference may well be made in this connection to § 14 of
the act, which reads:
"Any resident of the Philippine Islands, not a subject or citizen of any foreign government, of the age of twenty-three years,
of good moral character, and who possesses the necessary
qualifications of learning and ability, is entitled to admission
as a member of the bar of the islands and to practice as such
in all their courts."
Section 19 provides for the admission without examination
of any resident, not a citizen or subject of any foreign government,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

who has been admitted to practice in any of the courts of the
United States.
It seems clear from the provisions of General Orders, No. 29,
and of the code, that the intention was, and has been from the
first, to require all members of the bar to be either citizens
of the United States or those enjoying the status of natives
of the Philippines, and to exclude all foreigners from the legal
profession in the islands.
If it be conceded that plaintiff in error possessed the privilege
of practicing his profession in the islands at the time Spain
surrendered her sovereignty over them, the enjoyment of that
privilege ceased by virtue of the stipulations of the Treaty of
Paris and the subsequent laws and regulations of the new
sovereignty inconsistent therewith; and the effect of *the decision in the present instance was not to deprive plaintiff in
error of that privilege. Counsel for plaintiff in error cite various sections of the code which prescribe the grounds upon
which a lawyer may be deprived of the right to practice, but
they relate to the removal or suspension from the bar of attorneys already practicing, and have no application to the case
of one who has been denied admission to practice at all.
The eighth article of the Treaty of Paris declares that the
cession of sovereignty "cannot in any respect impair the property rights which by law belong to the peaceful possession of
property of all kinds," etc., but that stipulation does not relate to the rights connected with trades and professions. The
word "propiedad" used in the Spanish text is defined by
Escriche as the right to enjoy and dispose freely of one's things
in so far as the laws do not prohibit it. 4 Escriche, 736. The
same word appears in Article IX, providing that Spanish subjects may retain, whether they remain or remove from the
territory, "all their rights of property, including the right to
sell or dispose of such property or of its proceeds." Clearly the
right to practice law was not referred to as "property" there,
and they are followed by the words "and they shall also have
the right to carry on their industry, commerce and professions,

HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

being subject in respect thereof to such laws as are applicable
to other foreigners."
We concur with the conclusions of the Supreme Court of
the Philippines, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

HALLOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 175.

Argued March 12, 1908.-Decided March 23, 1908.

The authority given by § 6 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat.
826, to the Circuit Court of Appeals, to certify propositions of law to
this court, cannot be used. for the purpose of sending to this court the
whole case for its consideration and decision. A certificate which does
not set forth the propositions of law, clearly stated, which may be answered without reference to all the facts, but which sets forth mixed
questions of law and fact requiring this court to construe acts of Congress, and, in the light of all the testimony, to determine what should
be the judgment of the lower court, is defective and must be dismissed.
C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Williams, 205 U. S. 444, 454.

case is here upon certified questions by the judges of
the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The certified questions and the statement of the case which
precedes them are as follows:
"The indictment was returned November 16, 1905, and
charged that the defendant, on August 1, 1905, in the District
of Nebraska, introduced whiskey and. other intoxicating liquors
into the Indian country, 'to wit, into and upon the Omaha
Indian. Reservation, a reservation set apart for the exclusive
useand benefit of certain tribes of the Omaha Indians.' The
defendant entered -a plea of not guilty and the case was submitted to. a jury upon the following agreed statement:
THIS

