OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

THOMPSON v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 160. Argued March 9,1908.-Decided April 6,1908.
Due process of law does not assure to taxpayers that the court will sustain
the interpretation given to a statute by executive officers or relief from
the consequences of misinterpretation by either such officers or the court;
one acting under a statute must take his chances that such action will be
in accord with the final decision as to its proper interpretation; this is a
hazard under every law from which there is no security.
It is within the power of the State to tax spirits in bonded warehouses and
require the warehouseman to pay the same with interest after the taxes
due to the United States Government have been paid; and if the warehouseman is given a lien on the spirits for the taxes and interest.paid by
him he is not deprived of his property without due process of law.
The fact that a warehouseman paid taxes without interest on spirits in bond
under a mistaken interpretation of the statute by the state officers and
subsequently permitted the spirits to be withdrawn does not estop the
State to recover from the warehouseman interest due on such. taxes under the statute, and a judgment therefor does not deprive the warehouseman of his property without due process of law within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and so held as to the tax statutes of Kentucky.
A classification of distilled spirits in bond, as distinct from other property
in regard to payment of interest on taxes does not constitute a discrimination amounting to a denial of equal protection of the laws within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment.
94 S.W. Rep. 654, affirmed.

THIS is an action to collect interest on deferred taxes assessed
for the years 1898 to 1902, both inclusive, on distilled spirits,
which were stored in the warehouse of plaintiff in error.
The petition of the Commonwealth contains a cause of action
for each year, and it is alleged in each that plaintiff in error
was the owner or proprietor of a bonded warehouse in which
distilled spirits were stored, and, as required by law, reported
the quantity of spirits on which the Government tax had been
paid or was then due, and the amount of spirits theretofore
removed since the preceding report, showing the years in which

THOMPSON v. KENTUCKY.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

such spirits were assessed for taxation and the number of
packages and their value as assessed. And it is alleged that
by such reports, which were verified as the law directs, there
was shown to be due the Commonwealth of Kentucky, "as
taxes, exclusive of any interest, the sum of -dollars"
for the particular year. It is further alleged that "the sum
reported as taxes due was incorrect, in that there was not included accumulated interest on the taxes due while the spirits
remained in the bonded warehouse." The amount for each
year is alleged. The petition was amended by order of the
court and made specific as to the tax rate assessed by the
Commonwealth for the period of years covered by the petition.
The amendment also' stated the valuation fixed by the state
board of valuation on distilled spirits and the time when the
spirits were placed in bond, when withdrawn, and the amount
of taxes paid thereon by plaintiff in error.
The answer of the defendant, plaintiff in error here, is very
voluminous. It denies that plaintiff in error was indebted to
the Commonwealth for taxes and interest for any of the years
mentioned in the petition, beyond that which was duly paid
to the Commonwealth and duly credited by it, "as set out in
the petition," denies that there is due any interest "from any
date whatever," or any penalty or penalties. It is alleged
with much circumstantiality that plaintiff in error made reports required of him by the law of the State upon blank forms
furnished by the auditor of public accounts, who was charged
with the duty of supervising the collection of all taxes on distilled spirits, and -adjusting and settling the claims and accounts therefor, and that that officer verified and approved
.the reports and accepted the amounts of taxes paid, with the
reports and issued receipts for and on behalf of the Commonwealth. And it is alleged that the auditor and treasurer having accepted the principal sum of taxes without any interest
or penalty, in full satisfaction of the Commonwealth's claim,
to permit it to recover any other or further sum "would be
inequitable, unconscionable and unjust," and that any re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

covery would be a total loss to plaintiff in error. That the law
was construed by all the officers of the state government since
its enactment in 1892 to only require the payment of the principal sum of the taxes. And that such officers have so construed the law and the subsequent act, known as the revenue
law, which was enacted March 29, 1902, in such manner that
no interest or penalties were exacted of plaintiff in error, or any
other owner or proprietor of a bonded warehouse. It is also
alleged that plaintiff in error was not the owner of said spirits,
but that they were owned by non-residents of the State; that
under the law the person who paid the taxes thereon was entitled to a lien to secure the amount so paid, and would have
been entitled to a lien for the payment of interest and penalties if any had been exacted, and to enforce the same possession
could have been taken, but relying upon the construction
placed upon the law as aforesaid, and believing that all claims
of the State had been fully satisfied, plaintiff in error permitted
the owner thereof to withdraw the same and ship it out of the
State of Kentucky without the payment of any interest or
penalties; that such spirits have long since been consumed
and the lien thereon lost. And it is alleged that some of the
owners are insolvent and others dead, and hence any recovery
against plaintiff in error will be a total loss to him.
There are a number of argumentative allegations that the
spirits while in the bonded warehouse were in the possession
of the United States, and not therefore in the possession of
plaintiff in error or within the jurisdiction of the State of
Kentucky, or subject to taxation by that State or any of the
municipalities, or subject to any process of the courts of the
State. And it is further alleged or argued that if the law be
construed, as the State in this action seeks to construe it, such
law would be an "unwarranted interference with the scheme
and plan of the United States Government, which has been
in force for forty years," and would deprive plaintiff in error
and all owners of distilled spirits "of the rights and privileges
secured and guaranteed by-the Constitution of the United

THOMPSON v. KENTUCKY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States," and rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment,
"which provides that no State shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States, nor deprive any
person of life, liberty or property without due process of law,
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
Mr. J. B. Thompson, with whom Mr. Phil B. Thompson,
Junior, was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John W. Ray, with whom Mr. N. B. Hays was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

MCKENNA, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky opened its opinion in
this case by saying that the whole question presented was
whether the statute of the State, "imposing a tax on distilled
spirits in bonded warehouses," violated the Federal Constitution, and particularly the Fourteenth Amendment thereof.
It was also said that the validity of the statutes under the constitution of the State had been construed and decided in Commonwealth v. E. H. Taylor, Jr., Co., 101 Kentucky, 325; Commonwealth v. Walker, 25 Ky. Law Rep. 2122; Commonwealth v.
Rosenfield Bros., 118 Kentucky, 374. And the court quoted
from appellant's brief (plaintiff in error here) as follows:
"It is not necessary on this appeal that the court shall
either overrule, modify or change in any manner its opinion
rendered in the case of Commonwealth v. Rosenfield. In accordance with the previous opinion of the court in the case
of Commonwealth v. E. H. Taylor, Jr., 101 Kentucky, 325,

it was held in the Rosenfield case that the law which imposed
the tax and interest-the matter in controversy in this action
-is not in conflict with the constitution of the State of Kentucky. It has never been held that this law is not in conflict

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

with the Constitution and laws of the United States, and this
is the question we now present.'Plaintiff in error, however, seems to broaden his contentions here, and attacks the construction of the state statutes
made in Commonwealth v. Rosenfield Brothers, and urges either
a different construction than there made, or a disregard of
that construction, as constituting extortion against him, or
as depriving him of his property without due process of law.
The basis of the contention is that he had paid taxes demanded
of him under a different construction and received the receipt
therefor, and that the State is estopped to make further demands upon him. The hardship .of his situation is strongly
presented. He was required, he urges, to report for assessment and pay taxes on property belonging to another. He
made the report and paid all the taxes demanded of him. Having completely discharged his legal obligations, as he. supposed, he delivered the property to its owner and lost the lien
which the statute gave him, and which constituted the legal
justification, as he contends, of the charge upon him, and he
is now subjected to liability for interest and penalties for which
he has no security or power to enforce reimbursement: A
new demand is made upon him, he says, "special in its character and retroactive in its effect, in violation of the constitution of the State of Kentucky and of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States." But these
contentions, so far as they rest upon a supposed change in
the law, wvere rejected in Commonwealth v. Rosenfield Brothers,
supra, the court deciding that interest was due under the law
of 1892, under which the taxes were demanded and paid, and
as well as under the law of 1902.
A summary of thie statutory provisions will make clear the decision. ยง 4105 of the Compiled Statutes of 1894 requires "every
owner or proprietor of a bonded warehouse" to make a report
between certain dates to the auditor of public accounts of the
kind and quantity of spirits in such warehouse on the fifteenth
day of September. The auditor of public accounts is required

THOMPSON v. KENTUCKY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to submit the same to the board of valuation and assessment,
which board is to fix the value of the spirits for the purpose of
taxation under the act and to assess the same accordingly.
Notice is required to be given to the owner or proprietor of
the warehouse of the amount so fixed, and certify the value
of the spirits assessed for said taxes to the auditor of public
accounts, and that officer certifies to the county clerks of the
respective counties the amount liable for county, city, town
or district taxation, and the date when the bonded period will
expire. The report is filed in the office of the county clerk and
certified to the prbper collecting officer. The person or corporation having custody of the spirits on the fifteenth of September in the year the assessment is made is made liable for
the taxes "due thereon, together with all interest and-penalties
which may accrue; and any warehouseman or custodian of
such spirits, who shall pay the taxes, interest or penalties on
such spirits, shall have a lien thereon for the amount so paid,
with legal interest from date of payment." ยง 1, Art. V, ch.
103, p. 310, Acts 1892. ยง4110, ยง 6, Art. V, provides as follows:
"Taxes on distilled spirits which may be assessed while in
a bonded warehouse, and on which the United States Government tax has not been paid or will not become due before
the first day of March after assessment, shall be due on the
first day of January, May and September next after the 'said
Government tax becomes due or be paid, or when the spirits
are removed from the warehouse; and the taxes on each year's
assessment shall bear legal interest as other taxes."
The statute of 1902 strikes out the words "as other taxes"
and inserts the words "until paid." Upon this change the
controversy turns. The Court of Appeals in Commonwealth v.
Rosenfield Brothers, supra, said there was a change in words
only, not one in substance or meaning, and unless this be so,
it was said, the legislature had taken "great pains to insert
into every section relating to the subject-matter words which
meant nothing." And again: "We do not know how the legislature .could have made it plainer that state taxes on whiskey

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

in bond should bear interest than by the language used in the
section aforesaid." The section -had been quoted. This was
the court's conclusion "as an original proposition.."

But it

cited as "direct authority" Commonwealth v. Taylor, 101
Kentucky, 327, where the "very question arose." To the contention that the warehouseman has lost his lien through he
construction put upon the act by the State's fiscal officers,
land that the State was therefore estopped from collecting the
interest, the court replied: "It may be true that this will work
a hardship upon the distiller, but it was his duty,. under the
law, to pay the taxes and the accrued interest, and we cannot,
in his behalf, waive the time-honored and conclusive presumption that he knew the law; and especially is this true since 1897,
when the case of Commonwealth v. Taylor was decided, thus
establishing beyond all question that taxes on whiskey in bond
bore interest on the assessments made during the bonded
period. Saying this, however, it is elementary that the State
is not estopped by the laches of its officers."
But from this situation this court cannot give relief. Due
process of law does not assure to a taxpayer the interpretation of laws by the executive officers of a State as against their
interpretation by the courts of the State or relief from the
consequences of a misinterpretation by either. We do not
mean to indicate that the decision of the court was wrong. It
would, indeed, be difficult to resist the force of its reasoning.
At any rate, it is the province* of the courts to interpret the
laws of the State, and he who acts under them must take his
chance of being in accord with the final decision. And this is
a hazard under every law and from which or the consequences
of which we know of no security.
The assignments of error repeat frequently and dwell upon
the fact of the power of the Federal Government over the
spirits and the distillery and its custody of them, and, it is
urged, that such power is exclusive of the exercise of any other
power whatever, and such custody has the effect to withdraw
in legal contemplation the property from the jurisdiction of

THOMPSON v. KENTUCKY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the State, though it is actually present in the State, making
it, indeed, as though it were outside of the territorial limits
of the State. And it is hence concluded that plaintiff in error
by the law of Kentucky is made to pay taxes on property belonging to another person outside of the jurisdiction of the
State, and, it is contended, the decision of the court giving
the laws these effects denies plaintiff in error the equal protectibn of the laws and deprives him of his property without due
process of law.
There are many elements involved in the contention, and
it is not easy, without extending this opinion to a great length,
to give them separate and individual discussion. We will
therefore consider only the main one, to wit, the power of the
Federal Government over the spirits and the warehouse and
the absolute want of power in the State to tax them or subject
them to its process. This is the basic principle of the contentions of plaintiff in error, "for," he says, "the warehouseman
cannot be made liable for the tax on the property if the property itself is not liable for the tax." There is further argument,
to the.effect that by reason of the control of the Federal Government the State cannot give, in all events and against all
possibilty of the exercise of that control, 'to the warehouseman
the means to enforce the lien conferred by the statute to reimburse himself, and he should therefore "be by that fact discharged from all liability on account of such assessment."
But these contentions rest upon an exaggerated view of the
control of the Federal Government and the effect of the Kentucky statute. The scheme of the statute is simple, and it is
an exercise of the power which, we said in Carstairsv. Cochrdn,
193 U. S.. 10, 16, the State undoubtedly possessed "to tax
private property having a situs within its territorial limits."
And this was said in response to contentions having the same
ultimate foundation as those urged in the case at bar. The
proposition was indeed considered as elemental, and as requiring nothing more than the illustration of cases. There may
be instances where property, though within the territorial

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

limits of a State, is not subject completely to the jurisdiction
of the State, and counsel has cited a number of such instances.
Where their example applies they will be followed. It does not
apply in the present case. There is no conflict between the
state and Federal purpose. There is no question of the supremacy of the latter and its complete fulfillment. "The State
does not propose," the Court of Appeals said, "to collect the
taxes so long as the spirits are in the custody or under the lien
of the Federal Government." There is actual accommodation,
therefore, of the power of the State to the rights of the Federal
Government, and a harmonious exercise of the respective
sovereignties of each, preserving to each necessary power.
This is what Carstairsv. Cochran decides. See also Baltimore
Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375.
A word more may be necessary as to the contention that
the statutes in controversy, as interpreted by the Court of
Appeals of the State, deny to plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws. The ground of this contention is not explicitly distinguished in the assignments of errors from the
grounds of the other contentions, and in the brief of counsel
the contention is made to depend upon the view, rejected by
the Court of Appeals of the State, that the act of 1902 made
a change in the law, and that only the owners of distilled
spirits in bond are required to pay interest "upon taxes settled
at the time they were due." The effect of the act of 1902 has
been considered and it is only necessary to add that the distinction made by the taxing statutes of the State between
distilled spirits in bond and other property does not constitute
a discrimination condemned by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The power of the State to classify persons and property in its
legislation is well established, and the power is not transcended
by the statutes under review. Billings v. Illinois, 188 U.S.97.
Judgment affirmed.

