SCULLY v. BIRD.
209 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

SCULLY v. BIRD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 353. Submitted April 20, 1908.-Decided May 4, 1908.

This court will not assume an inconsistency to exist between the opinion of
the Circuit Court and its certificate.
On certificate that the bill was dismissed solely because the suit was against
the State within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment and therefore
not within the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such, this court cannot
determine whether the bill should have been dismissed because not presenting a case for equitable relief.
A suit by a citizen of another State to restrain a state officer from improperly
enforcing a state statute, where no criminal prosecution has been commenced, held, in this case, not to be an action against the State within the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. E. T. Fenwick, for appellants:
The prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment does not apply
where a suit is brought against defendants who, claiming to
act as officers of the State, and under color of a statute which
is valid and constitutional, but wrongfully administered by
them, commit, or threaten to commit, acts of wrong or injury
to the rights and property of the plaintiff, or make such administration of the statute an illegal burden and exaction upon
the plaintiff. Bates Fed. Eq. Pro. (1901 ed.), §560, Subd. 4;
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 388.
Nor where an individual is sued in tort for some act injurious
to another in regard to person or property, to which his defense
is that he has acted under the orders of the government. In
this class of cases, the defendant is not sued as, or because he
is, the officer of the government, but as an individual, and the
court is not ousted of jurisdiction because he asserts authority
as such officer. To make out his defense, he must show that
voL. ccix-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellee.

209 U. S.

his authority in law was sufficient to protect him. Cunningham
v. Macon & Brunswick R. Co., 109 U. S. 451.
The State is a political corporate body, can act only through
its agents, and can command ofily by laws. It is necessary,
therefore, for a defendant who seeks to substitute the State in
his place, to produce a law of the State which constitutes his
commission as its agent, and a warrant for his act. Bates,
§ 560, Subd. 8; Poindexterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 288.
Whenever a citizen of a State can go into the courts of a State
to defend his property against the illegal acts of its oficers, a
citizen of another State may invoke the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts to maintain a like defense. Bates, §560, Subd.
9; Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 391.
The suit at bar might have been maintained in the state
courts of Michigan against said defendant. Pratt Food Co. v.
Bird, 148 Michigan, 631.
The statutes of Michigan confer no authority upon the defendant to do the acts of which complaint is made against him
in this case. Comp. Laws Michigan, § 4978.
The suit at bar should not have been dismissed under § 5 of
the act of 1875. U. S. Comp. Stat., § 639; Farmingtonv. Pillsbury, 114 U. S. 138; Williams v. Mattawa, 104 U. S. 212; Mattocks v. Baker, 2 Fed. Rep. 457.
The question whether th .uit at bar is, in. legal effect, a
suit against the State is one on the merits of the case, and it
was error for the trial court to hold that it was a question of
jurisdiction, and to dismiss the bill on that account for want of
jurisdiction. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28.
Mr. John E. Bird, Attorney General of the State of Michigan,
and Mr. George S. Law, for appellee:
A decree denying the temporary injunction and dismissing
the bill of complaint, was the only decree that could have bten
rendered by the Circuit Court. Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 113 Fed.
Rep. 616; S. C., 191 U. S. 405..
Pratt Food Co. v. Bird, 148 Michigan, 641, relied upon by

SCULLY v. BIRD.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

complainants, is rather an authority for the contention of defendant. It gives complainants ample remedy by proceedings
in the state courts. Freeney v. First National Bank, 16 Fed.
Rep. 433.
Whether or not this proceeding is a suit against the State,
the decision of the Circuit Court was correct. Penna. Ry. Co.
v. Wabash Ry. Co., 157 U. S. 225; Moffatt v. Smith, 101 Fed.
Rep. 771; 3 Cyc. 221, and cases cited.
The Circuit Court had the right at any stage of the proceedings, and upon its own motion, to dismiss the bill for want of
jurisdiction. 11 Cyc., p. 701, and cases cited; Heriot v. Davis,
Fed. Cases, No. 6,404 (2 Woodb. & M. 229).
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal directly from the Circuit Court from a decree dismissing the bill of appellants for want of jurisdiction.
The bill sought an injunction against certain acts of the appellee, who is the dairy and food commissioner of the State of
Michigan, and who, it is alleged, under cover of his office is
injuriously affecting the reputation and sale of certain products
manufactured by appellants. The acts complained of will be
detailed more fully hereafter. It is enough to say preliminarily
that appellants alleged in their bill that their business is the
manufacturing, refining and selling of various food products,
and more particularly thd manufacturing, blending and selling
of syrups used for food products; that their principal place of
business is in Chicago, and that their business is "commonly
recognized and known as an honorable and legitimate commercial industry and a legal and necessary adjunct to organized
society;" and that they have large quantities of their products
in Michigan "which prior to the acts complained of, found a
ready sale in that State, which sales resulted in fair and continuous profit" to them.
The court dismissed the bill, and recites in its certificate that
the decree "was made and entered by the court on its own motion and without notice to any of the parties to this suit or

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

their attorneys, except that the question of jurisdiction was
argued on the motion for preliminary injunction, it appearing
to the court from the face of the bill that this suit is, in effect,
a suit against the State of Michigan within the meaning of the
Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
and that, therefore, this suit does not really and substantially
involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of a Federal court."
The court expressed its reason for its action in an opinion as
follows:
"Upon examination of the authorities cited upon the arguments had in this cause upon the matters above related, it is
clear that the case of Arbuckle v. Blackburn, Dairy and Food
Commissionerof Ohio, 113 Fed. Rep. 616 (C.C. A.), is conclusive
against the jurisdiction of a court of equity over the matters
set forth in the bill. It is argued in behalf of complainants that
the case at bar is differentiated from that decision of the Court
of Appeals in the case just cited. It is not perceived that there
is any substantial difference in the facts of the two cases which
would exclude the application of Arbuckle v. Blackburn. That
case is conclusive that this court has no jurisdiction to entertain a suit of this nature, and the only order which can be made
in this case, notwithstanding the entry of the order pro conlesso,
is one for a dismissal of the bill for want of jurisdiction."
Arbuckle v. Blackburn was appealed to thi& court, but the
appeal was dismissed, on the ground that the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court was " 'dependent entirely upon the opposite
parties to the suit or controversy being ....
citizens of
different States,' and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was final." The questions passed on by the latter court were
not considered or decided. 191 U. S. 405.
The Attorney General of the State, who appears as counsel
for the appellee, does not contend that this is a suit against the
State. He says: "Counsel for defendant did not claim in the
Circuit Court, and do not now claim, that this proceeding is a
suit against the State. It is our contention that under the de-

SCULLY v. BIRD.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

cision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the case of Arbuckle v.
Blackburn, supra, a Federal court of equity has .no jurisdiction
of the subject-matter of the bill of complaint, viz., that it has
no jurisdiction to restrain the dairy and food commissioner of
a State from issuing bulletins or circulars claiming that an article of food is in violation of the criminal laws of a State."
And it is urged that such was the reason given by the court
in its opinion and order dismissing the bill, and that as the decision of the court was right it should not be reversed, because
the reason given for it in the certificate was not the correct
reason. But we cannot assume that there is inconsistency between the opinion and order of the court and its certificate.
We, therefore, accept the latter as expressing the ground of
the court's action. We would have no jurisdiction on this
appeal unless the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was in question as a Federal court; and whether the bill presented a case
for equitable relief does not present a question of the jurisdiction of the court as a court of the United States. Blythe v.
Hinckley, 173 U. S.501; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams,
180 U. S.28, 35. Indeed, it is urged by appellant that whether
a suit is one against a State is not a question of jurisdictioti,
but a question on the merits, and Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
Adams, supra, is cited.
That suit was brought by the railroad company against
Adams, who was a revenue agent of the State of Mississippi, and
the railroad commission of the State, to enjoin the latter from
certifying an assessment for taxes on a railroad in which the
Illinois Central had an interest and to enjoin the revenue agent
from beginning any suit or advising any of the municipalities
along the line of the road to bring suit for the recovery of such
taxes. The bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction and thecase was appealed to this court. One of the grounds for the
dismissal was, as certified, "that there was no jurisdiction in
this matter because the bill was a suit against the State of
Mississippi and in violation of the Eleventh Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States." We said, by Mr. Jus-

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

tice Brown, that such a question is "one which we think belongs to the merits rather than to the jurisdiction." And
further: "If it were a suit directly against the State by name,
it would be so palpably in violation of that Amendment that
the court would probably be justified in dismissing it upon
motion; but the suit is not against the State, but against Adams
individually, and if the requisite diversity of citizenship exist,
or if the case arise under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, the question whether he is so identified with the State
that he is exempt from prosecution, on account of the matters
set up in the particular bill, are more properly the subject of
demurrer or plea than of motion to dismiss. This seems to
have been the opinion of Chief Justice Marshall in Osborn v.
Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 858, wherein he makes
the following observation: 'The State not being a party on the
record, and the court having jurisdiction over those who are
parties on the record, the true question is not one of jurisdiction,
but whether, in the exercise of its jurisdiction, the court ought
to make a decree against the defendant; whether they are to
be considered as having a real interest, or as being only nominal
parties.' " Again, 180 U. S. 38: "But where the §uit is against
an individual by name, and he desires to plead an exemption by
reason of his representative character, he does not raise a question of jurisdiction in its proper sense. . . . But whether
this is a question of jurisdiction or not, we think it should be
raised either by demurrer to the bill or by other pleadings-in the
regular progress of the cause.. Motions are generally. appropriate
only in the absence of remedies by regular pleadings and cannot
be made available to settle important questions of law." Cases
were cited, and it was further observed that in Fitts v. McGhee,
172 U. S. 516, the question whether the officers proceeded
against "were representatives of the State was disposed of upon
answers filed."
The suit at bar has not the "palpable" evidence of being a
suit against the State by being against the State by name.
Do the allegations of the bill make it such?

SCULLY v. BIRD.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The suit is brought against appellee, described as a citizen
of Michigan, by appellants, described as citizens of Illinois.
It is true it is alleged that appellee is the state dairy an4l food
commissioner of Michigan, and that by an act of the 'general
assembly of the State, passed the second of June, 1893,, the
office of dairy and food commissioner was created, and that it
was by such act and amendatory acts made the duty of appellee as commissioner "to, attend to the enforcement of all the
laws of the State of Michigan against the unlawful labeling,
fraud, adulteration or impurity of foods, sold, offered for sale,
exposed for sale or had in possession with intent to sell in the
State of Michigan," and that it is the duty of the commissioner
is clearly set forth in the acts.
It is alleged that it is his duiy to prosecute violators of the
act. That it came to the notice of the appellants that the appellee questioned the legality of some of the food products
manufactured by them and sold in Michigan, and that they
represented, through their attorney, that they were manufacturers of certain brands of maple and cane syrups which they
were desirous of having properly labeled, that appellee refused
to accept the statement of the attorney as being made in good
faith, and stated that none of the syrups manufactured by
appellants contained any maple syrup whatever, but were
mixtures of inferior syrups containing substances which produced "imitation maple flavors," and accused appellants of
not being desirous of "obtaining a wise and just interpretation
of the food'laws of the State of Michigan," and refused to give
appellants' attorney "any information as to how a brand of
maple syrup and cane syrup should be properly and legally
labeled under said food laws," and refused to consider how such
syrups should be labeled, and insisted that he would only permit appellants' syrups "to be sold simply as 'syrup,' without
any qualifying words whatever to inform purchasers of the same
of the nature of such syrups." The bill sets forth efforts made
by appellants to have the question of the legal labeling of their
products decided by the Assistant Attorney General of the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

and asked the latter officer to bring a test case in the courts of
Michigan or "arbitrate the question at issue." To which the
Assistant Attorney General replied "that they did not arbitrate
matters in Michigan, but that they were 'fighters.' "
It is alleged that appellants were advised by their attorney
that the proper course for them to pursue would be to label
their "Westmoreland" and "Triumph" brands of syrups as
nearly as possible in accordance with the laws of Michigan, and
in compliance with that opinion they devised labels which described the "Westmoreland" as a brand of pure maple syrup
and pure rock candy syrup, and the "Triumph" as a "delicious
brand" of the same syrups. And it is alleged that both brands
are composed of maple syrup and cane syrup, "and no other
ingredients whatever," and that rock candy syrup is the purest
kind of cane syrup, and is the only cane syrup used by appellants.
It is alleged that appellants have shipped into the State of
Michigan said brands of syrups labeled and branded as aforesaid
and that shortly after such shipment the appellee "assumed
a hostile attitude towards all of said syrups and contended and
persists in contending that the labeling upon said syrups does
not comply with the laws of the State, and that he and his
inspectors "at once commenced a systematic crusade" against
the sale of the syrups, and appellant is informed that appellee
contends that "'the words 'maple syrup' should not appear on
any of the said labels in any manner or form whatever, even
though said syrups actually contained a representative proportion of pure maple syrup." The bill contains the following
paragraph:
"Your orators further represent that they are informed and
believe that the said crusade, waged against their said brands
of syrup by the said Arthur C. Bird and his inspectors, is not
in good faith, but that the same is actuated by malice and ill
will on the part of said Arthur C. Bird towards your orator,
growing out of the conference between your orators' said attorney and the said Arthur C. Bird hereinbefore referred to,

SCULLY v. BIRD.
209 U. S.

.489

Opinion of the Court.

and that the activity of said Arthur C. Bird to prevent the
sale of said brands of syrups is caused by the malicious desire on the part of Arthur C. Bird to ruin your orators' business
in the State of Michigan."
It is further alleged that "the crusade against said brands
of syrups" is conducted by appellee and his food inspectors,
acting under his direction, by visiting all grocers, merchants
and dealers in the' syrups, and informing them that by selling
said syrups they would subject themselves to criminal prosecution. And that it has been the custom and practice of appellees
since the shipment of the syrups to the State to write numerous
letters to dealers in the State, warning them that the syrups
were illegally labeled, and directing them to return all such
syrups to appellants, and directing such dealers to make prompt
.reply "as to what course they had pursued in relation to said
syrups," and what action they had taken to return the same.
It is also alleged that the food inspectors, under the direction
of appellee, forcibly removed appellants' brands of syrups
from the shelves of dealers, against the consent of said dealers.
And "that in no case, so far as your orators are informed and
believe, was any sample taken of such syrups so taken from
the shelves as aforesaid, nor were the said syrups sealed as
required by the statutes of the State of Michigan, nor were
any prosecutions ever commenced against said grocers or dealers, although ample time has elapsed since the acts complained
of as aforesaid."
The bill sets forth the efforts of appellants to have appellee
commence prosecution against their agents and jobbers and
against grocers and dealers handling their syrups, so that they
might have an opportunity of defending the legality of their
syrups "in the proper courts of the State of Michigan, and in a
proper manner." These efforts, it is alleged, have failed; and
it is further alleged that in all the acts and doings of the appellee complained of he was and is acting as a private citizen
of the State, but "under cover of his said office of dairy and
food commissioner." That his powers and duties as such of-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

ficer are clearly defined in the statutes to which reference is
made.
The intimidating effect of the acts of appellee upon the dealers in the syrups is set out and the detriment resulting therefrom to appellants detailed.
It is manifest from this summary of the allegations of the
bill that this is not a suit against the State. Cunningham v.
M. & B. Rd. Co., 109 U. S. 446; Pratt Food Co. v. Bird, 148
Michigan, 631. It is not a suit, as was Arbuckle v. Blackburn,
supra, to restrain a criminal prosecution. Indeed, the bill
alleges that a criminal prosecution was invited by appellant
and refused by appellee, and refused, it is alleged, to serve
the purpose of what the bill denominates a "crusade" against
the syrups of appellants, and in dereliction of duties enjoined
by the statutes of the State.
Decree reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurb in the decree.

MATTER OF ALBERT N. MOORE, AN INFANT
PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 17, Original.

Argued March 9, 1908.-Decided April 20, 1908.

In either case, the filing by the defendant of a petition for removal, the
filing by the plaintiff after removal of an amended complaint or the
giving of a stipulation for continuance, amounts to the acceptance of
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
A next friend may select one of several tribunals in which the infant's case
shall be tried, and may elect to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal
court to which the case may be removed.
While consent cannot confer on a Federal court jurisdiction of a case of
which no Federal court would have jurisdiction, either party may waive

