McCABE & STEEN CO. v. WILSON.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

McCABE: & STEEN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v.
WILSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 155, Argued March 5, 6, 1908.-Decided April 6, 1908.
Defendant who introduces testimony after the demurrer to plaintiff's evidence has been overruled waives any error to the ruling.
Where the cause of action is against the members of a copartnership who
afterwards incorporate their business, themselves taking practically all
the stock and cbntinuing without changing their relations with employds,
the fact that the suit is commenced against the corporation was held under
the circumstances of this case, and in view-of the fact that no testimony
was offered, to be within the provisions of the Oklahoma statute, 146, art.
8, c. 66, Wilson's Ann. Stat., requiring the court to disregard, and not
reverse for, defects of pleading or proceedings not affecting the substantial rights of the parties.
Where several instructions are asked and refused, exceptions must be taken
separately and not as an entirety.
One employed as a fireman on an engine of a construction train held, under
the circumstances of this case, not to be the fellow-servant of the foreman
of the gang constructing the bridge which fell and caused the accident.
It is the duty of the employer to provide a suitable and safe place for the
employds to work and they are not charged with any responsibility in
regard thereto, and while the employer is relieved if he does everything
that prudence requires in that respect, it is largely a question o0.fact and
this court will not, in the absence of convincing testimony, set aside the
verdict of a jury approved as was the verdict in this case by the trial and:
Supreme courts of the Territory, especially where the accident was the
result of recurring conditions.
A fireman, who, under the circumstances of this case, remains at his regular
post where his ordinary duty calls him, is not guilty of contributory negligence because he does not avail himself of permission to occupy a different
and, perhaps, safer place.
17 Oklahoma, 355, affirmed.

ON June 9, 1902, Wilson, the defendant in error, was injured by the giving way of a railroad bridge across the Canadian River in the Territory of Oklahoma. The bridge was on

a new line of railroad, which was being constructed from Ok-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

lahoma City to Quanah, Texas. The petition, filed October 18,
1902, in the District Court of the Third Judicial District, sitting in and for the county of Oklahoma, charged that the
defendant, now plaintiff in error, was a subcontractor and
constructing a portion of the railroad, including therein the
crossing of the Canadian River; that Wilson was a locomotive
fireman employed by the defendant. The circumstances of the
injury were stated in the petition and negligence on the part
of the defendant was averred. A trial resulted in a verdict
and judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $5,500. This judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory
(17 Oklahoma, 355), and thence brought here by writ of error.
Mr. Arthur G. Moseley, with whom Mr. Louis B. Eppstein
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James R. Keaton, with whom Mr. John W. Shartel,
Mr. Frank Wells and Mr. John H. Wright were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE BREWER, after 'making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

When the plaintiff rested the court overruled a demurrer
to the evidence. This ruling, however, cannot avail the defendant, whatever the defects then in the case, for thereafter
it proceeded to introduce testimony in its own behalf, and
this waived any supposed error. Accident Insurance Company
v. Crandal, 120 U. S. 529, 530; Robertson v. Perkins, 129 U. S.
233, 236; Bogk v. Gassert, 149 U. S. 17, 23; Campbell v. Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610.
The petition averred that one Pratt was defendant's superintendent of construction and one Fallahey foreman of the
gang engaged in work on the bridge, and that the plaintiff was
employed by the defendant through its general superintendent. The answer, in addition to certain special defenses, was

McCABE & STEEN CO. v. WILSON.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

an unverified general denial, and the court held that under
the pleadings the defendant was estopped from showing that
the foreman of the bridge gang and the superintendent of
construction were not in its employ. This ruling was based
upon par. 3086 of the Oklahoma General Statutes of 1893, c. 66,
ยง 108, which provides that "in all actions allegations
of any appointment or authority

.

.

.

shall be taken as

true unless the denial of the same be verified by the affidavit
of the party, his agent or attorney." Defendant also sought
to prove that plaintiff was not in its employ; that it in fact
did not exist at the time of the accident; that the contract for
the constructiowwork was taken by a partnership, McCabe &
Steen. The answer of defendant alleged that the injury to
plaintiff "was due to one of the risks assumed by the plaintiff
in his contract of employment with this defendant."
* The general denial in the answer as originally filed was in
terms of "the allegations contained in the petition in manner
and form as therein set forth." During the progress of the
trial the defendant asked leave to amend by striking out the
words "in manner and form as therein set forth," to which
application the plaintiff objected, saying:
"As far as the general deiial being sufficient to permit the
defendant, admitting that it is the proper defendant, to raise
further issues as far as it not being guilty of any negligence,
admitting that it was the defendant and was doing the contracting work there, why we don't care anything about it;
but we do object to their being permitted to amend their
answer in any way so as to raise the issue that this defendant
is not the defendant with whom the plaintiff contracted and
who was doing this work."
The court thereupon announced its decision to neither permit nor deny the defendant leave to amend at that time,
saying:
"The COURT: We will go ahead now and treat this answer
as a general denial at this time, and will reserve my ruling on
your motion until I see further; I will fix the terms later."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

Thereafter the question came up again, and the record
shows these facts:
"The COURT: The defendant will be permitted to amend
the general denial by striking out those words (the words heretofore referred to) by the payment of half of the costs of court
to this date, except the witnesses of the plaintiff-the. fees;
that is, provided, however, that if a continuance by reason
of this amendment is taken by the plaintiff, the defendant shall
be taxed with all the costs, unless the court should continue
it on account of some showing made by the plaintiff, then of
course the costs occasioned by the amendment would follow.
"Mr. KEATON: Coursel for plaintiff here states that if it is
permitted to show by testimony that the McCabe & Steen
Construction Company were not building this road and not
building the bridge, then the plaintiff will have to make a
showing and ask for a continuance of the case in order to reform the pleadings.
"Mr.
yet.

MOSELEY:

Well, we have not offered that testimony

"The COURT: You gentlemen have heard my statement that
if a continuance should be made necessary, then all the costs
will follow.
"Whereupon the defendant amends its answer by striking
out certain words, the same being 'in manner and form as
therein set forth,' which appeared between the word 'petition'
and the word 'and' in the third line of first paragraph of said
answer."
It will be observed that counsel for the plaintiff stated that
he had not yet offered testimony to show that the McCabe &
Steen Construction Company was not building the road and
the bridge, and the record shows that thereafter there was no
testimony in any form offered to establish that fact. Now
whatever might have been competent testimony under the
answer as amended, it appears by the statement of counsel
that no testimony respecting the matter had been offered, and
the record shows that none was thereafter offered. It must

McCABE & STEEN CO. v. WILSON.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be stated, however, that prior to the ruling just quoted it had
been shown that within six weeks after the injury, and while
the work of construction was still in progress, the partnership
conveyed all its interest to the corporation, the two members
of the partnership of McCabe & Steen taking 96 per cent of
the corporate stock. This transfer was of so little significance
that it was unknown to its counsel at the time he filed the
answer, and from his statement he evidently did not care to
press any defense on that ground. The Oklahoma statute
provides: "The court, in every stage of action, must disregard
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which
does noi affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and
no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such
error or defect." Section 146, art. 8, c. 66, Wilson's Ann. Stat.
With reference to these several matters thus grouped together we are of opinion that the Oklahoma statute we have
just quoted sufficiently answers any claim of error. The litigation proceeded upon the theory that the corporation was
the real party in interest, and while the partnership and the
corporation were not identical, yet the partners were substantially the corporation, and the change in organization did not
materially affect the rights of the plaintiff. Evidently, for
business convenience, the partners concluded to organize as a
corporation, and yet they took the bulk of the stock in their
own names. They were practically the owners, and it does
not appear that there was any change in the manner of doing
business or in the relations of the employer to the employ~s.
To hold, especially after this admission of counsel and his
failure to offer any further testimony on. the subject, that the
substantial rights of the plaintiff were affected by any of these
matters would be sacrificing substance to form. The objections were properly disregarded by the Oklahoma courts, both
trial and supreme.
While the defendant asked several instructions the exception taken was not to the ruling on each instruction separately,
but to them as an entirety.

This plainly was insufficient.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U; S.

Fullenwider v. Ewing, 25 Kansas, 69; Bailey v. Dodge, 28
Kansas, 72; Fleming v. Latham, 48 Kansas, 773.
There remain for consideration these matters: one, the contention that the plaintiff was a fellow-servant with the foreman
of the gang at work on the bridge and the superintendent of
construction; another, the question of negligence on the part
of the defendant; and a third, contributory negligence. With
reference to the first, it must be borne in mind that the plaintiff was a fireman employed on a locomotive, and his work
was in a separate department from that Df the employ6s engaged in the construction of the bridge. This is not a case for
the application of the doctrine of fellow-servant. It would be
carrying that doctrine too far to hold that one employed as a
fireman and engaged in the movement of a train was a fellowservant with the superintendent of construction and the foreman of a bridge gang, both of whom were present and engaged
in supervising and directing the work on the bridge. These
'latter employ6s represented the principal in an entirely different line of employment from that in which the plaintiff
was engaged, were discharging a positive duty of the master
to provide a safe and suitable place and structures in and
upon which its employ6s were to do their work-Union Pacific
Railway Co. v. O'Brien, 161 U. S. 451, and cases cited in the
opinion-and in discharging that positive duty. they and not
he were the representatives of the defendant. Their action,
so far as that work was concerned, was the action of the- defendant.
With reference to the second question, that of negligence on
the part of the defendant, it must be premised that this is
largely a question of fact, and a question of fact is submitted
to the decision of a jury. Notwithstanding the able argument
of counsel for defendant in endeavoring to show that the defendant (lid everything that prudence required for the purpose
of making the bridge safe, we are not satisfied that the testimony is so convincing in this respect as to justify us in setting
aside the verdict of the jury, approved as it was by the trial

McCABE & STEEN CO. v. WILSON.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and Supreme Courts of Oklahoma. There is, of course, resting
upon the employer the duty of providing a suitable and safe
place and structures in and upon which its employ6s are called
to do their work, and this plaintiff was charged with no duty
inrespect thereto.
A full statement of the testimony would unnecessarily prolong this opinion, and a brief outline must suffice. The bridge
was a pile bridge, the piles having been, as claimed, driven
down to solid rock. This rock substratum sloped from the
north to the south side of the river, the first bent striking the
rock at eight or ten feet. At the place where the bridge sank
the depth to the rock was eighteen feet. Above the rock was
quicksand, and the piles were driven through it. The bridge
was originally constructed some weeks before, but during high
water a portion of it had washed out. It was rebuilt upon the
same plan and with apparently no further protection than
when originally constructed. At the time of the injury there
was again high water, and that high water made a roaring
torrent of the flowing stream. When the train upon which
the plaintiff was fireman came to the river it was found that
upon the bridge there had been placed a loaded flat car. Disengaging itself from the balance of the train, the locomotive
moved on to the bridge and pulled that car off. As it did so
there was a slight subsidence at the place where the bridge
finally gave way. So the engine returned to the north bank
of the river, while the gang of employs, under the direction
of the foreman and the superintendent of construction, proceeded to place a false span underneath the bridge at the point
of subsidence, and after awhile notified the train eraploy~s that
the bridge was safe. Thereupon the engine moved slowly on
to the bridge, and when it got to the place where there had
been a prior subsidence the bridge sank so as to drop the engine into the river, and in that way the plaintiff was injured.
Now it appears that by actual experience the bridge as
originally constructed gave way in time of high water, and
yet was rebuilt, without change of plan and without adding

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U, S.

further protection. When the high water returned, as it did
at the time of the injury, there was again a giving way of the
bridge. From this general outline of the case (filled, of course,
more in detail by the testimony as to the circumstances of the
work and the injury) it is apparent that there was a question
whether the defendant had made suitable provision for securing a safe structure upon which the trains should pass; and
upon a review of all the testimony we do not feel that we are
justified in disturbing the verdict, approved as it was by the
Oklahoma courts.
Thirdly, it is insisted that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence, in that when the engine moved on to
the bridge, at the time of the injury, tfie engineer said to him
that he need not stay on the engine, but might go back on the
train. But his place of work was in the engine, the same as
that of the engineer, and because he did not avail himself of
the suggestion and leave that place it can hardly be said that
he was guilty of contributory negligence. He' stayed at his
regular place of work and where his ordinary duty called him
to be, and it would be a harsh rule to hold that a man so doing
was guilty of contributory negligence, because he did not avail
himself of a permission to occupy a different and perhaps a
safer place; especially as both the engineer and himself were
advised by the construction force that the bridge was safe.
These are all the matters that call for notice. We find no
error in the rulings of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, and
its judgment is
.A/firmed.

