OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Complainant.

209 U. S.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF WEST
YIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 4, Original: Forms of decree appointing special master, submitted April 7,1908.Form of decree announced May 4, 1908.
Order referring cause to master and directing conditions under which testi. mony shall be taken and master shall report to this court.
Defendant's demurrer having been overruled, 206 U. S. 290, 322, and defendant having answered, both complainant and defendant submitted
and1 sustained by argument forms of decree referring the cause to a master.

Mr. William A. Anderson, Attorney General of the State of
Virginia, and Mr. Randolph Harrison, for complainant:
The differences go rather to matters of procedure than to
1 Complainant's draft of decree referring the cause to a master.

This cause coming on this day to be heard upon the complainant's bill
and the exhibits filed therewith, the answer of the defendant, with the exhibits filed therewith, and the general replication filed by the complainant
thereto, was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is adjudged,
ordered, and decreed that this cause be referred to
1 who is hereby
appointed a special master herein, who, after giving not less than ten days'
notice to the parties of the times and places fixed by him, from time to time,
for executing this decree,will without delay ascertain and report to the court:
I.
The amount of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia as of the
first day of January, 1861, stating specifically, how and in what form the
same was evidenced, by what authority of law and for what purposes the
same was created, and the dates and nature of the bonds or other evidences
of said indebtedness.
II.
What amount and proportion of said indebtedness and of the interest
accrued thereon should in equity be apportioned to and be now paid by the
State of West Virginia.
(Complainant subsequently suggested the following substitute for parsgraph II.)
II.
What is the just amount and proportion of said debt, including the interest thereon, which should now be apportioned to, and paid by, the State

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

any question of principle, as between pars. III and IV, complainant's draft, and par. VII, defendant's draft.
Complainant asks that the provisions expressed in pars. III,
of West Virginia? Such amount and proportion of said debt the master
will ascertain by charging against West Virginia:
(1) All expenditures made by the State of Virginia within the territory
which now constitutes the State of West Virginia since any part of said debt
was contracted.
(2) Such proportion of the ordinary expenses of the government of Virginia since any part of said debt was contracted as was fairly assignable to
the counties which were erected into the State of West Virginia.
In ascertaining this, the master will take as the basis or criterion upon
which the apportionment of said expenses shall be made the average total
population of Virginia, excluding slaves, as nearly as the same can be determined from the United States Census for each of the decades in which
such expenses were incurred and paid.
(3) The amount and value of all money, property, stocks, and credits
which West Virginia received from the Commonwealth of Virginia, not
embraced in any of the preceding items and not including any property,
stocks, or credits which were obtained or acquired by said Commonwealth
after the 19th day of June, 1861, the date of the organization of the restored
government of Virginia.
(5) From the aggregate of the amounts thus ascertained, the master
will deduct all moneys paid-into the treasury of said Commonwealth from
the counties included within the State of West Virginia during said period.
(6) The balance thus ascertained, with interest thereon from the 1st day
of January, 1861, until the same shall be paid, will be the amount and proportion of the debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia existing before that
date, assignable to West Virginia and which that State should pay.
III.
He will make and return with his report any special or alternative statements of the accounts between the complainant and the defendant in the
premises which either may desire him to state or which he may deem to be
desirable to present to the court.
It is further adjudged, ordered, and decreed as follows:
(1) To the end that full and complete information may be afforded the
master as to all matters involved in the inquiries with which he is charged
by this decree, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of West Virginia shall each of them respectively produce before the master, or give him
access to, all such records, books, papers, and public documents as may be
in their possession or under their control and which may, in his judgment,
be pertinent to the said inquiries and accounts or any of them.
And the master is authorized to visit the capitals of Virginia and West
Virginia, and to make or cause to be made such examinations as he may

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Complainant.

209 U. S.

IV and V, its draft, be embodied in the decree for reasons
which will be apparent on reading those paragraphs.
The serious objections to the defendant's draft' of decree
deem desirable of the books of account, documents, and public records of
either State relating to the inquiries he is directed to make, and to cause
copies thereof or extracts therefrom to be made for use in making up his
report.
All published records published by authority of the Commonwealth of
Virginia prior to the creation of the State of West Virginia and all papers
and documents and other matter constituting parts of the public files and
records of Virginia prior to the partition of her territory which, in the judgment of the master, may be relevant and pertinent to any of said inquiries,
or copies thereof, if duly authenticated, may be used in evidence and considered by the master. The public acts and records of the two States since
the creation of the State of West Virginia shall be evidence if pertinent and
duly authenticated; but all such testimony tendered by either party shall
be subject to proper legal exception as to its competency.
The master is empowered to summon any persons whose testimony he
or either party may deem to be material, and to cause their depositions to
be taken before him or by a notary public or other officer authorized to take
the same, after reasonable notice to the adverse party.
(2) The master is authorized and empowered to employ such accountants,
stenographers, or other clerical assistance as he may find it desirable to employ, and to secure such rooms or offices as he may require, in order to the
prompt and efficient execution of this order of reference, and to agree with
such accountants and stenographers, typewriters, and the owner of such
room or rooms for such compensation to be made to them as the master
may consider reasonable and just. He is authorized to direct their compensation to be paid out of the funds to be deposited to the credit of this cause.
(3) The complainant will cause the sum of three thousand dollars to be
deposited with the marshal of this court to .the credit of this cause, on account of the costs and expenses of executing this decree and of this suit, and
the complainant will cause such further sums as may be necessary to defray
the costs and expenses of executing this decree to be from time to time in
like manner deposited with said marshal. In the event that the defendant
shall desire any special statement or accounts to be made, she shall in like
manner, before the taking of any such account or the making of such special
statement, cause the sum of dollars to be deposited with the marshal.
And the master is authorized from time to time to draw upon the funds
so deposited by Virginia for the compensation of the accountants and other
clerical assistants whom he may employ, and for any other costs or expenses,
including stationery, printing, and room rent, which it may in his judgment
be necessary to be incurred in promptly and efficiently executing this order
of reference or making up any special statement or accounts asked for by
the plaintiff, and the same will be charged up as part of the complainant's

-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

are particularly to par. II. but also to pars. III, IV and V
thereof.
Complainant's draft directs the master to take an account
ascertaining:
costs; and he will draw upon the fund deposited by the defendant for any
costs which may be incurred in making up any special statement or accounts
which may be desired by the defendant to be specially stated, .which drafts,
accompanied by proper vouchers, the marshal of this court will pay, and the
same will be charged up as part of the defendant's costs in the cause.
And the said marshal is allowed to have and retain a commission of five
per centum for his services in receiving and disbursing the funds so deposited
with him, and he will make a report of his transactions, receipts, and di4bursements in the premises to the court.
IV.
The first notice of the time and place fixed by the master for beginning
the taking of the accounts directed by this decree shall be given at least
thirty days before the date fixed by him therefor, provided that the date
so fixed by the master for beginning the taking of said accounts shall not be
a day earlier than February 20, 1907. The master may adjourn his sittings
from time to time and place to place without notice to the parties. He will
cause to be kept, in a minute book to be provided for the purpose, a journal
or minutes of his sittings in the execution of this decree, showing the counsel present, if any, any adjournments which may be taken by him from
time to time or place to place, and any other matters which the master may
deem it proper to mention therein, which minute book or journal he will
return with his report.
V.

Any notices to be given in connection with the execution of this decree
may be given to the Attorneys-General of the respective States.
Defendant's. draft of decree referring the cause to a master.
This cause came on this day to be heard upon the complainant's bill and
the exhibits filed therewith; the answer of the defendant, with the exhibits
filed therewith; the general replication thereto by the complainant, and was
argued by counsel, and on consideration of which it is adjudged, ordered,
and decreed that this cause be, and the same is hereby, referred to 9
who is appointed a special master herein, who, after giving - days' notice
to the parties of the times and places fixed by him, from time to time, for
executing this decree, will ascertain and report to the court:
I.
The amount of the public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia on the
first day of January, 1861, stating specifically how and in what form the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Complainant.

209 U. S.

"The amount of the public debt of the Commonwealth of
Virginia as of the first day of January, 1861, stating specifically, how and in what form the same was evidenced, by what
same was evidenced, by what authority of law and for what purposes the
same was created, and the dates and nature of the bonds or other evidences
of said indebtedness.
II.
(a) The amount of state expenditures made by the Commonwealth of
Virginia prior to the first day of January, 1861, within the territory now included within the State of West Virginia since any part of said indebtedness
was contracted, as provided by the ordinance adopted by the Commonwealth
of Virginia at Wheeling, August 20, 1861.
(b) The aggregate ordinary expenses of the state government of the
Commonwealth of Virginia prior to January 1, 1861, and since any part of
said indebtedness was contracted.
(c) All moneys paid into the treasury of the Commonwealth of Virginia
from the counties included within the State of West Virginia during said
period.
III.
Whether any agreements, contracts, or arrangements, other than those
appearing from the exhibits filed with the bill herein, have been made by
the Commonwealth of Virginia with her creditors since January 1, 1861, with
reference to said public debt created prior to said date, or to the satisfaction or discharge of said indebtedness or any part thereof.
IV.
The amount of certificates relating to said indebtedness issued by the
Commonwealth of Virginia under the acts of her General Assembly, approved March 30, 1871, March 28, 1879, February 14, 1882, and February 20,
1892; and what amount, if any, of said certificates have been deposited since
January 4, 1906, with the commission appointed under the joint resolution
of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia approved March 6,
1894; and he will also ascertain and report what amount of said certificates
so deposited since said date were issued under the act of March 30, 1871;
what amount were issued under the act of March 28, 1879; what amount
were issued under the act of February 14, 1882, and what amount were issued under the act of February 20, 1892.
V.
The master will ascertain and report to what extent said certificates issued
by the Commonwealth of Virginia represented the principal of one-third of
said public debt and to what extent they represented the interest thereon,
and the rate at.which the interest was reckoned; and he will also ascertain

VIRGINIA v..WEST VIRGINI ..
209 U.TS,-

519

Argument for Complainant.

authority of .law and for what purposes the same- was createdi
and the dates and nature of the bonds or other- evidences.: of,
said indebtedness."
and report whether there is included in said certificates,. or in any of them,
the interest, or any part of the interest, which had accrued on the.portion,
of said public debt refunded by the Commonwealth of Virginia, and if so,
what was the total amount of such interest and at what rate it.was reckoned.
VI.
It is further ordered and decreed that the master shall ascertain and report what amount, if any, of the bonds or other evidences of debt issued by
the Commonwealth of Virginia under the act of March 30, 1871, was subsequently surrendered by the holders thereof and exchanged for other bonds.
or evidences of debt issued under the acts of 1879, 1882, and 1892, and if
such exchanges were made, the master will ascertain and report what rate
of interest was agreed to be paid upon such new bonds or evidences of debt.
VII.
It is further ordered and decreed that the Commonwealth of Virginia and
the State of West Virginia shall each produce before the master all such
records, books, papers, and public documents as may be in their possession
or under their control, and which may, in his judgment, be pertinent to the
said inquiries and accounts or any of them.
And the master is authorized to make or cause to be made such examination as he may deem desirable of the books of account, vouchers, documents,
and public records of either State relating to the inquiries he is herein directed to make, and to cause copies thereof or extracts therefrom to be made
for use in making up his report.
All public records published by authority of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the seventeenth day of April, 1861, and all papers and documents and other matter constituting parts of the public files and records of
Virginia-prior to the date aforesaid which in the judgment of the master
may be relevant and pertinent to any of said inquiries, or copies thereof, if
duly authenticated, may be used in evidence and considered by the master,
but all such evidence shall be subject to*exceptions to its competency. The
public acts and records of the two States since the admission of West Virginia into the Union shall be evidence, if pertinent and duly authenticated,
but all such evidence tendered by either party shall be subject to proper
legal exceptions to its competency.
The master is empowered to summon any persons whose testimony he
or either party may deem to be material, and to cause their depositions to
be taken before him, or by a notary public or other officer authorized to
take the same, after reasonable notice to the adverse party.
The master is authorized and empowered to employ such stenographers
and other clerical assistants as he may find it desirable to employ in order

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Complainant.

209 U.S.

The defendant's draft adopts this paragraph.
Par. II, plaintiff's draft, directs the master to take the following accounts:
"What amount and proportion of said indebtedness and of.
the interest accrued thereon, should in equity be apportioned
to and be now paid by the State of West Virginia."
Par. II, defendant's draft, directs the master to take the
following accounts:
(a) "The amount of state expenditures made by the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the first day of January, 1861,
within the territory now included within the State of West
Virginia since any part of said indebtedness was contracted,
as provided by the ordinance adopted by the Commonwealth
of Virginia at Wheeling, August 20th, 1861.
(b) "The aggregate ordinary expenses of the state government of the Commonwealth of Virginia, prior to January 1st,
1861, and since any part of said indebtedness was contracted.
(c) "All moneys paid into the treasury of the Commonwealth
of Virginia from the counties included within the State of
,West Virginia during said period."
to the prompt and efficient execution of this order of reference, and to agree
with such stenographers and typewriters and clerical assistants upon such
compensation to be made to them as the master may consider reasonable
and just. He is authorized to direct their compensation to be paid out of
the funds to be deposited to the credit of this cause.
The complainant shall cause the sum of three thousand dollars to be deposited with the marshal of this court to the credit of this cause, and such
further sums as from time to time' may be required, on account of the costs
and expenses of executing this decree; and the master is authorized from
time to time to draw upon the fund so deposited by Virginia for the compensation of the stenographers, typewriters, and other clerical assistantswhom he mnay employ, and for any other costs and expenses, including
stationery and printing, which may in his judgment be necessary to be incurred in executing this order of reference.
The said marshal is allowed to have and retain a commission of 5 per
centum for his services in receiving and disbursing the funds so deposited
with him, and he will make a report of his transactions, receipts, and disbursements in the premises to the court.
Any noties to be given in connection with the execution of this decree
.may be given to the Attorneys General of the respective States.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

Par. IIl, plaintiff's draft, directs that the master "will
make ,and return with his report any special or alternative
statements of the accounts between the complainant and the
defendant in the premises which either may desire him to
state or which he may deem to be desirable to present to the
court."
Complainant, objects to par. II, defendant's draft, on the
ground that it seems to lend the sanction of the court in advance to a basis or scheme for the statement of the account,
which is not shown by anything as yet in the cause to be either
equitable or just.
Before any such question can be fairly adjudicated, it is
necessary that the evidence in the case be taken and have
the aid of its master in collating and thoroughly digesting it.
There is not enough in the record to enable the court to
come to any just or definite conclusion as to the precise scheme
which it would be equitable to adopt in stating the account.
To do so at this stage of the litigation, would be to decide an
important question in the case before the evidence is taken.
The effect of par. II would be to have the court prejudge the
case as to the basis on which the account shall be stated.
The case is now only submitted for a decree referring 'it to
a master, to state and report to the court the data necessary
to enable the court to justly decide it upon its merits.
If it should then appear that the basis prescribed by the
Wheeling ordinance is binding upon the parties, and must be
followed as the basis upon which the account shall be made
up, that basis would be adopted. But if it should be then
manifest that that arbitrary basis of settlement is not the one
-on which the account should be stated, because it would, if
applied to the facts of the case as they shall appear in the
evidence, lead to absolutely unconscionable results and operate
to impair the obligation of the contracts by which. th6 common
debt was created, contracts which were and are alike-ebligatory upon Virginia and upon West Virginia, or for any bther
valid reason, then the scheme of settlement, indicated in the

OCTOBER TERM 1907.
Argument for Complainant.

209 U. S.

Wheeling ordinance would have to be discarded, and an equitable basis and scheme of settlement adopted.
Complainant contends that, while the Wheeling ordinance
upon its face, prescribes an absolutely arbitrary basis of settlement, the representatives of Virginia are satisfied that upon a
fair, reasonable and just construction of the language of that
ordinance, and of the subsequent supplemental enactments,
the scheme of settlement therein defined will, when applied
to the facts as stated in the bill, and as. it is believed they can
be established by proofs, result in fixing the proportion of
the debt of Virginia which West Virginia should assume and
pay, inclusive of interest, at a very large sum, though not so
large a sum as it would be equitable for West Virginia to
pay.
The debt, a portion of which she was to pay, was an interestbearing debt. It would be manifestly "just" and "equitable"
that West Virginia should be required to pay interest as well
as principal. Indeed, any settlement which does not require
that State to pay interest during the long period of her default and refusal to pay anything, would be not only unjust,
and inequitable, but iniquitous.
West Virginia came into the Union upon the distinct condition expressed in her constitution, that she would assume
an equitable proportion of the common debt of the undivided
State, as it existed prior to January 1, 1861, and would provide for the payment of the accruing interest .and the redemption of the principal thereof.
While it is believed that, upon the facts stated in the bill
and accompanying exhibits, and upon the proofs hereafter to
be adduced in support thereof, West Virginia will owe a very
large sum, even under the arbitrary scheme of the Wheeling
ordinance, we submit that we should not, in the present status
of the litigation, be tied down to the terms of that ordinance.
Another palpable objection to the defendant's draft is, that
it excludes from the account the value of the property, assets,
and money which West Virginia has received from the Coin-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

1523

Argument for Complainant.

monwealth. Upon any basis of just accounting, these items
should be brought into the account.
If the account should be stated on the Dasis of the Wheeling ordinance, these items would manifestly be proper charges
against West Virginia. By the terms of that ordinance, Virginia's title to, and ownership of, all of the property and assets
theretofore belonging to the Commonwealth remain intact.
By it, West Virginia would acquire no title to any of those
assets or of that property. Framed as that ordinance was,
by Western Virginians, and arbitrary, and on its face unjust,
as were the criteria by which it undertook to provide that
West Virginia's proportion of the common debt should be
computed, its authors were not so conscienceless as to also
propose that the new State, after making such an inadequate
contribution to its share of a debt which had been chiefly
contracted by the votes of the representatives of its people
and for their benefit, should also have a share of the property
and' assets of the' Commonwealth, free of charge.
'All that was, by the terms of that ordinance, to be ceded
by the Commonwealth to the new State, was political dominion, and jurisdiction over the people and territory embraced
in the new State.
The meaning and effect of the ordinance was to leave the
title to, and.ownership of, the assets and property of the Commonwealth in the Commonwealth.
Another objection to the account called for by defendant's
draft,, is that it does not direct any account to be taken ascertaining the amount and proportion of the debt of Virginia on
and prior to January 1, 1861, which West Virginia should
assume and pay, but contents itself with merely directing the
arbitrary and inconsequential accounts defined in par. II, defendant's draft.
Complainant's principal insistance is that defendant's draft
of a decree prejudges the case in advance of a hearing upon the
merits, while that tendered for the plaintiff cannot operate to
the prejudice of either party, upon any material question in

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for CompWnant.

209 U. B.

the cause; by this draft the adjudication of these questions
being left to await a hearing after the master's report shall be
filed, upon the evidence then fully in the cause.
The precise accounts called for by par. II, defendant's draft,
will be taken by the master if he shall find it necessary and
proper -to take them in order to ascertain the amountand proportion of the Virginia debt which West Virginia should pay;
and if the master shall for any reason deem it unnecessary to
take those accounts, the defendant cani, under par. III, complainant's draft, have them stated as special accounts, if. she
shall be so advised.
Par. III of complainant's drfat is designed to enable each
party, or the master, to have alternative, or special stements
of the accounts made up on. any basis on which either party or
the master may deem it proper or desirable that the same shall
be stated.
By having the respective views and, contentions of the complainant and the defendant thus presented in contrast in such
concrete form, the court, with the assistance of the findings
of the master, will be enabled more readily and intelligently
to reach ajust conclusion.
If the inquiries defined in pars. III, IV, V and VI, defendant's draft, have any pertinency to any question in the case,
it must be because of something not yet in the record.
Complainant objects to them as being unnecessary and irrelevant.
There is nothing in the cause, or so far as we know out of
it, to show that there is, any foundation in fact for the inquiry mentioned in par. III, -defendant's draft, as to whether
Virginia has made any other cohtracts or arrangements. with
the public creditors, since January 1, 1861, in reference to
the public debt. That inquiry, though harmless, is useless.
The accounts provided for in pars. IV and V, defendant's
draft, are not pertinent to any issue in the cause.
Both relate to the certificates or receipts given by Virginia
to the holders of the bonds issued by the Commonwealth be-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
20 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

fore her dismemberment, who have deposited these bonds
with her.
Those certificates are in the nature of a declaration of trust
by Virginia, that she holds said bonds (so far as they have not
been funded in the new securities which the Commonwealth
has given for about two-thirds of the aggregate amount thereof,
principal and interest), for the benefit of the owners of the
bonds deposited with her.
Those transactions cannot in any way affect any question
in the cause.
The only function of those certificates is to show who are
now entitled to the bonds which were so deposited with Virginia, and which she holds in her treasury for the benefit of
these certificate holders, awaiting a settlement with West Virginia. These inquiries are unnecessary and useless.
The same objection applies to par. VI, defendant's draft.
That relates to the obligations which were issued by Virginia,
as now constituted, in settlement of the two-thirds of the old
bonds funded, and payment of which was assumed by her.
That is a matter with which West Virginia has nothing to
do, and which does not affect the rights or obligations of either
party in respect to the claims asserted in complainant's bill.
Those new bonds given by Virginia for the two-thirds of
the old bonds assumed by her, and accepted by the owners of
the old bonds so deposited with Virginia, operated as a payment and discharge of the old bonds to the extent of the twothirds thereof so funded.
West Virginia is not sued here to pay any part of that twothirds so settled by Virginia. She is sued to have her assume
and pay so much of the remaining unfunded third of the common debt of' the undivided State, as may be West Virginia's
equitable portion of the whole of the debt represented by the
bonds of the original State. It has never been claimed or suggested that there was any liability on West Virginia beyond
Said unfunded third of the bonds of the original State which
have been funded; or that West Virginia should pay more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant.

. 209 U. S.

one-third of th, bonds issued by Virginia prior to the formation of West Virginia, which have not been funded.
The liability of West Virginia on account of the common
public debt, has sometimes been estimated by Virginia or her
representatives at one-third thereof, but never at more than
one-third, and Virginia has undertaken to take care of the
other tw"thirds with which West Virginia has nothing to Ao.
It is true, that there are some millions of the debt of the
undivided State, which Virginia has paid in full, and holds the
obligations so taken up by her as a claim against the new State,
to the extent of West Virginia's equitable liability for contribution therefor; and the extent of that liability can be ascertained and stated in the account directed by par. II, complainant's draft.
There is no occasion for any of the accounts directed by
pars. III, IV, V and VI, defendant's draft. If West Virginia
wants any of them to be stated, she can have that done as a
special statement under par. III of complainant's draft.
Mr. John G. Carlisle and Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom
Mr. C. W. May, Attorney General of the State of West Virginia, Mr. Charles E. Hogg, Mr. W.-Mollohan, Mr. George W.
McClintic and Mr. W. G. Matthews were on the brief, for defendant:
The difference between the two proposed decrees is radical, and presents to the court a question which in our view
is fundamental and 'which West Virginia contends,- respectfully and very earnestly, should be decided before any reference
to a master to state the account between the parties.
The jurisdiction of the court over this case is settled by the
decision overruling the demurrer. We are quite aware that
the court has recognized a distinction between suits by private
parties in respect of the application of the rules of pleading
and of practice, and suits between States. Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts, 13Peters, 23; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,
14 Peters, 256.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

West Virginia does not and could not successfully here contest the principles thus laid down, but the principles of equity
and the rules of 'hancery procedure so far as essential to protect the rights of parties litigating in this tribunal will, of course,
be substantially enforced. The application of some of the
rules of procedure are certainly essential to substantial justice.
2 Bates, Fed. Eq. Pro. 802, § 753.
Thus it stands alleged in the bill and admitted by the answer,
and if it were not admitted by the answer, it is conclusively established by the bill and its exhibits, that there was a solemn
agreement entered into in 1861 between the State of Virginia
and the new State of West Virginia, with the consent of the
Congress, by which the latter State assumed (as one of the
conditions of the assent of Virginia to her becoming a .State)
a just proportion of the indebtedness of that Commonwealth as
it existed prior to January 1, '1861, the manner of ascertaining
which proportion was defined by the ordinance itself.
The ordinance was, as treated by this court in the case .of
Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wallace, 39, a proposition by
the Commonwealth of Virginia to the people of the proposed
new State. It was accepted by the constitutional convention
of the proposed new State, carried into its constitution and
adopted by the people; and when the State was admitted into
the Union by the Congress, with the assent of Virginia.:,itbecame a completed compact between competent parties,,upor
adequate consideration, protected by the Constitution of 'the
United States from impairment by either party.-,.
The ordinance defines what would be a just proportion.jor
it provides not only for the assumption of a just proportion, but
specifically in what manner that proportion shall be ascertained.
-The obligation of a lawful compact between two States,
justiciable in its nature, certainly is as binding in law upon
both until abrogated by both in a constitutional way, as a
contract between a State and an individual, or betwedrne two
individuals, and a disregard or violation of it by one, certainly
cannot thereby release it from its obligation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant.

209 U. S.

From the averments of the bill and the admissions in the
answer, and the argument at the bar, it cannot be an open
question in this case that the only liability of West Virginia
for an equitable proportion of the ante-belum debt of Virginia
is upon the basis of the ordinance.
The general rule stated in Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S.
672, to the effect that where a State is divided into two or
more States, in the adjustment of liabilities between each
other, the debts of the parent State should be ratably apportioned among them, is essentially qualified by the authorities
there quoted, in this, that a special agreement between the
two States in respect of the assumption of a proportion of the
debt as it existed before the separation, takes the case out of
the general rule; so that the second ground alleged in the bill
which specifically avers a special agreement, destroys the applicability of the rule to this case. This special agreement
cannot be dismissed from this case as the decree proposed on
behalf of Virginia would do. This court has sustained'the
validity of this ordinance in Virginia v. West Virginia, 11
Wallace, 39, in respect of the provision contained in it for
the incorporation of the counties of Berkeley and Jefferson
in the latter State conditioned upon a popular vote therefor.
If the ordinance was valid then in respect of the incorporation of these counties, it cannot be held to be invalid as to the
specific provision contained in 1 9 for the assumption by the
new State of a just proportion of the indebtedness to be ascertained in the manner defined, clearly carried into the constitution of the new State and assented to by Congress by the admission of West Virginia into the Union.
Whether it was or was not the lawful government of Virginia
was a political question. When the House of Representatives
admitted the members of Congress from that State and the
Senate admitted the senators elected by the legislature of the
"Restored State," and the President recognized that government as the true government of Virginia, that forever settled

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

Argument for Defendant.

its legality and regularity beyond the power, of judicial review
and made valid its acts ab initio. But for that "Restored
State of Virginia," and- its recognition by the political departments of the Federal Government, there would have -been no
government of Virginia under the Constitution of the United
States from April, 1861, to the close of the war. The ordinance
of the Wheeling convention of 1861, which was the genesis of'
the State of West Virginia, and the adoption of its constitution,
are, from the standpoint of law, as clearly acts of the Commonwealth of Virginia as. if they had taken place in 1851 instead
of in 1861.
An agreement between States, such as this special agreement in respect to the proportion of the debt of Virginia which
was to be assumed by the State of West Virginia, when consented to by Congress, binds the citizens of both States, and
is irrevocable by either party. Where the legislation of either
has attempted to impair the obligation of a compact, it has
been held void under the Constitution of the United States.
Greene v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts,
12 Peters, 748, and cases cited.
The Wheeling ordinance was carried into the constitution
of West Virginia as follows:
"ARTICLE VIII. Section 8. An .equitable proportion of the
public debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the
1st day of January, 1861, shall be assumed by this State, and
the Legislature shall ascertain the same as soon as may be
practicable, and provide for the liquidation thereof by a sinking fund sufficient to pay the accruing interest and to redeem
the principal within thirty-four years."
The convention \assembled within ninety days after the
adoption of the ordinance.. Its sole warrant for assembling was
the ordinance. Its authority to frame the constitution was
derived from the ordinance. The ordinance as a whole was a
proposition to that convention and, as a whole, was accepted
by the convention. The convention complied with all the
provisions of the ordinance. The constitution was framed to
voL. ccix-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant.

209 U. S.

meet all the requirements of the ordinance. It was tne oasis
of the constitution.
The inconsistent attempt to eliminate the ordinance from the
case-the present posture of counsel for Virginia-is in order
that the ordinance may be eliminated, and § 8 of the first
constitution is to be construed as the assumption by the new
State of an equitable proportion of the public indebtedness of
Virginia prior to January 1, 1861, upon the basis of population
and territory. Such cannot be the law of this case. The
assembling of the convention was an acceptance of § 9 of the
ordinance. The ordinance embodied the conditions, and § 9
by no.omeans the least important of them, of Virginia's consent
to thererection of the new State out of her territory.
The suggestion that § 8 of Article 8 of the constitution
had no reference to § 9 of the ordinance, assumes that the new
State was taking upon herself an equitable proportion of the
public debt of. the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the first
day of January, 1861, without definition or understanding
as to the basis upon which it was to be ascertained, therefore
leaving open the vital question as to what would constitute
ari'eIuiitable proportion, for future adjustment between the
two States. This is not to be believed.
The debt of Virginia on January 1, 1861, was doubtless well
known throughout the State of Virginia. It is alleged in the
bill' that about $33,000,000 of it were incurred in connection
with the construction of works of internal improvement. If
it had been the purpose of Virginia, in requiring as a condition
of her assent, the assumption by the proposed new State of
an equitable proportion of the public debt without specification as to the manner in which, and the basis upon which that
proportion should be ascertained, it is inconceivable that thelanguage of § 9 of the ordinance would have been what it was,
and that the language of §8 of Article 8 of the constitution
would have been what it was. It was entirely for Virginia to
dictate the terms, and if it had been her purpose to require an
assumption of the debt upon the basis of territory and popu-

VIRGINIA v. WEST' VIRGINIA..
209.: S'..

Argument for.Defbndant.,

latibn; West. Virgihia wouldU have been required'to; assume
"one-third of.'the debt as it. existed prior to the first day of
January, 1861'," or "an equitable proportion to be ascertained
upon the.-basis of territory and population."
If' the. ordihance be valid and binding, it cannot be disregardbd, by- the. court. While West Virginia could not by any
suit prevent- Virginia from disregarding it in the adjustment
with hen' creditors of her debt, or any portion of it, when Vir&inia-invokes the original jurisdiction of this court in a suit
against Wbst'
,
Virginia to compel her to account for an equitable
proportionk of her debt prior to January 1, 1861, upon the basis
of, the, ordfnance and upon other and different bases, she may
plead, the' ordinance as the only basis upon which the court
can decree, an accounting by her. 'The court will not make
a. new contract for the parties. They were competent to make
one for themselves, and they did make one for themselves.
It is unfortunate that the two States were unable many years
ago to adjust the matter in accordance with the agreement
which they had entered into and which subsists between them.
West Virginia is entitled to have the question whether or
not the special agreement as to what shall constitute a just
proportion of the debt solemnly entered into between the two
States is binding, determined at this juncture by the court and,
if it be held to be a binding agreement, Virginia is entitled to
no accounting with West Virginia in this suit for her equitable
proportion of the debt of the Commonwealth prior to January 1,
1861, except under the terms of that ordinance, carried into the
constitution.
Complainant's draft directs that the master-" III. Make
and return with .his report any special or alternative statements of the account between the plaintiff and the defendant in the premises which either may desire him to state or
which he may deem to be desirable to present to the court."
This asks the court to leave the determination of the pivotal
point in the case, which defendant contends should be decided
by it in'advance of an accounting, to a master, albeit only in

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant.

209 U. S.

an advisory.way, and it gives West Virginia permission to
have an accounting made, if she desires it, on the basis of the
ordinance at her own expense. She is defendant here. In
that event we would have two lines of investigation proceeding -before the master at the same time, each entirely distinct
in basic principle from the other, each burdensome in labor,
expense and the consumption of time. Neither would throw
any light upon the other. An exhaustive accounting under
the ordinance would not aid the court in determining Whether
it is binding and the only legal basis of settlement or 'not. An
exhaustive investigation upon the international law basis
would no more aid the court in determining whether the ordinance is binding and therefore the sole ground upon which
the liability of West Virginia to an-accounting at all can be
based. If the compact is in force, any accounting save under
that will.be not only burdensome" but superfluous.
Defendant's draft is in literal execution of the contract of
the parties, as evidenced by the ordinance and §8 of the' first
constitution.
It directs the master to ascertain and report:
(a) The amount of state expenditures made by the Commonwealth -of Virginia' prior to the first day of January, 1861,
within the territory now included within the State of West
Virginia, since , any part -of said indebtedness- was contracted,
as provided by the. ordinance adopted by the Commonwealth
of' August 20, 1861.
Defendant agrees that the last clause need not be inserted.
(b)- To ascertain the aggregate ordinary expenses of the state
government of the Commonwealth prior to January 1, 1861,
and since any part of said indebtedness was contracted.
(c) All moneys paid into the treasury 'of the Commonwealth
of Virginia from the counties included within the State. of
West Virginia during the said period.
The items, (a) and (b) are. under the ordinance, to be charged
to West Virginia.
The item' (c) is under the qrdinance to be credited to the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

533,

Argument for Defendant.

State of West Virginia, and when these three steps shall have
been taken, and the two items charged, and the one item credited, the sum which it was agreed between the two States.
should constitute a just proportion, of the debt of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to January 1, 1861, which West
Virginia assumed, will have been ascertained. These provisions are not "arbitrary and inconsequential items."
They are the items which Virginia herself framed and required to be accepted by the proposed new State as a condition
of assent to her separation and admission into the Union.
There is but one item in § 9--defining the manner in which
the account should be taken in order to ascertain the proportion of the debt to be taken upon herself by the proposed new
State-left at all indefinite, and that is item (b), "'a just
proportion' of the ordinary expenses of the state government,.
since any part of said debt was contracted." This involves a
determination of the basis upon which a "just proportion"
of the aggregate ordinary expenses of the state government
during the said period is to be ascertained. Shall it be population or territory, or both, or taxable values? Defendant contends that it should be based upon population, since "government "-including the administration of justice, the making
and administering of the laws, the education of the children
through a system of common schools, academies and a state
university, the maintenance of state institutions, the support
of prisoners, the care of the insane and paupers, and the likeis for people, not acres. Defendant suggests there should be
added to defendant's draft, in respect of an ascertainment of
the aggregate ordinary expenses of the State, a direction to
the, master to find alternatively certain facts substantially as
follows: "For the purpose of enabling the court to determine
the just proportion of the aggregate of the ordinary expenses
of the state government of the Commonwealth of Virginia
prior to January 1, 1861, and since any part of said indebtedness was contracted, said master shall ascertain and report the
population during the said -period of the counties now con-

,0C.1T03ER TERM, :1907.
Decree.

209',U. S.

stituting the Commonwealth of Virgiriia, and separately the
population of the counties now constituting the State of West
Virginia, as shown by the decennial censuses taken during -the
said period by the United 'States, and also -.he :average population of Virginia during each of said periods iof ten years."
The aggregate ordinary expenses. being ifoud, and the items
suggested as. to population, it will be easy to .determine the
"just proportion" if that is the proper basis.
This case should not be cast at 'large, wit'h no definition of
the principles to govern his action, into the hands ,of a master:;
that at least it should be settled before a referdnce for the purpose of taking an account, whether, the lability ,of West Yirginia to Virginia is upon the special agreement which preceded
and accompanied her admission into the Union, or, because of
the absence of a special agreement, upon the basis of population and territory.
It will be observed that .in par. II, complainant's draft, the
master is not only directed to ascertain tie amount and proportion of said indebtedness, but "of the interest accrued thereon."
Defendant objects to this paragraph because there is no legal ground for directing the ascertainment of interest. West
Virginia has not obligated herself in any manner for the 'payment of interest. A State is not liable to pay interest unless
it has expressly contracted to do so. See United States v.
North Carolina, 136 U. S.211.
See also, following this prit.oiple, Sawyer v. Colgan, 102 California, 293; Hawkins v. Mitchell, 34 Florida, 421, 422; Molineux v. State, 109 California, 380; Flint &c. R. R. v. Board
oi Auditors, 102 Michigan, 502; Carr v. State, 127 Indiana, 204.
See also note, 22 American State Reports, 448.
By leave of court, Mr. Holmes Conrad made an argument
herein as amicus curi.
On May 4, 1908,
ing decree:

THE CHJEF JUSTICE

announced the follow-

.

This cause having been heard upon the pleadings and accom-

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209 U. S.

Decree.

panying exhibits, it 'is, on consideration, ordered that it be
referred to a special master, to be hereinafter designated, 1 to
ascertain. and report to the court:
1. The ,amount of the public debt of the Commonwealth of
Virginia on the first day of January, 1861, stating specifically

how and in what form the same was evidenced, by what authority of law and for what purposes the same was created,
,and .the dates:and nature of the bonds or other evidence of said
indebtedness.
2. The extentand .vdlue"of -the -territory of Virginia and of
West Vigiifa June 20, 1863, and the population thereof, with
,andWitho.ut slav,es,:separately.
,3.All Cexpenditures .made .bythe Commonwealth of Virginia
within the ,terntory now constituting the State of,- West Virginia isince :any part tof the debt was ,contracted.
4. Such proportion of the (ordinary expenses of the govern-ment,of Virginia since any (of,said debt was contracted, as was
properly assignable to the counties which were created into
the.State of West Virginia on the basis of the average total population of Virginia, With and -without slaves, as shown by the
census of the United States.
5. And also on the basis of the fair estimated valuation of the
property, real and personal, by counties, of the State of Virginia.
6. All- moneys paid into the treasury of the Commonwealth
from the counties included within the State of West Virginia
during the period prior to the admission of the latter State into
the Union.
7. The amount and value of all money, property, stocks an'!
credits which West Virginia received from the Commonwealil
of Virginia, not embraced in any of the preceding items and
1 On June 1, THE CHIEF JusTIcE announced the appointment of
Mr. Charles E. Littlefield, a member of the bar of this court as special
master.
2 A motion having been made to modify the decree this paragraph was
amended by the court of'June 1 so as to read "The extent and assessed valuation &c." and in all other respects the motion was overruled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Decree.

209 U.S.

not including any property, stocks or credits which were obtained or acquired by the Commonwealth after the date of
the organization of the restored government of Virginia, together with the nature and description thereof.
The answers to these inquiries .to be without prejudice to
any question in the cause.
It is further ordered that the Commonwealth of Virginia and
the State of West Virginia shall each, when required, produce
before the master, upon oath, all such records- books, papers
and public documents as may be in their possession or under
their control,, and which may, in his judgment, be pertinent to
the said inquiries and accounts, or any of them.
And, the. master'is authorized to make, or cause to be made,
such exkimition as he may deem desirable of the books of
account, vouchers, documents and public records of either
State, relating to the inquiries he'is herein directed to make,
and. to cause copies thereof or extracts therefrom to be made

for use in making up his report.
All public records published by authority of the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to the seventeenth day of April, 1861,
and all papers and documents and other matter constituting
parts of the public files and records of Virginia prior to the date
aforesaid, which in the judgment of the master may be relevant
and pertinent to any of said inquiries, or copies thereof, if duly
authenticated, may be used in evidence and considered by the
master, but all such evidence shall be subject to exceptions to
its competency. The public acts and records of the two States
sinfe the admission of West Virginia into the Union shall be
evidenbe,'if pertinent and duly authenticated, but all such evidence tendered by either party'shall be subject to proper legal
exceptions to its competency.
The master is empowered to summon any persons whose
testimony he or either party may deem to be material, and to
cause their depositions to be taken before him, or by a notary
public or other officer authorized to take the same, after reasonable notice to the adverse party.

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
209U. S.

Decre

,

The master is authorized and empowered, subject to the approval of the Chief Justice, to employ such stenographers and
other clerical assistants as he may find it desirable to employ in
order to the prompt and efficient execution of this order of
reference, and to agree with such stenographers and typewriters
and clerical assistants upon such compensation to be made to
them as the master may consider reasonable and just. He is
authorized to direct their compensation to be paid out of the
funds to be deposited to the credit of this cause.
The complainant shall cause the sum of five thousand dollars
to be deposited with the marshal of this court to the credit of
*this cause, and such further sums as from time to time may be
required, onaccount of the costs and expenses of executing this
decree; and the master is authorized from time to time to draw
upon the fund so deposited by Virginia for the compensation of
the stenographers, typewriters and other clerical assistants
whom he may employ, and for any other costs and expenses,
including stationery and printing, which may in his judgment
be necessary to- be incurred in executing this order of reference.
The said marshal shall receive such commission for his services in receiving and disbursing the funds so deposited with
him as may be allowed by the court, and he will make a report
of his transactions, receipts and disbursements in the premises.
Any notices to be given in connection with the execution of
this decree may be given by and to the Attorneys General of the
respective States.
The master will make his report with all convenient speed
and transmit therewith the evidence on which he proceeds, and
is to be at liberty to state any special circumstances he considers of importance, and t6 state such alternative accounts as
may be desired by either of the parties, subject to the direction
of the court.
And the court reserves the consideration of the allowance of
interest; of the costs of this suit, and all further directions until
after the master has made his report; either of the parties to be
at liberty to apply to the court as they shall be advised.

