OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the C6urt.

209 U. S.

BOGARD v. SWEET.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF *THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 156.

Submitted March 6, 1908.-Decided April 27, 1908.

A .decree of Supreme Court .of Oklahoma cancelling a deed given to defendant below in furtherance 6f a scheme of development of property
which had,.been abandoned, affirmed on the facts.
17 Oklahoma, 40, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John W. Shartel, Mr. James R. Keaton and Mr. Frank
Wells for appellants.
Mr. Charles M. Thacker for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

There can be no doubt upon this record, confused though
it be, as to the real nature of the present case.
The substantial facts are these: In December, 1890, one
Sweet, claiming to, be owner of certain town lots covered by a
patent to him from the State of Texas, of date December 10,
1885, conveyed the same by deed (his wife uniting with him)
to J. G. Bogard and other named persons. The lots were in
the town of Mangum, which was in what is now Gr.eer County,
Oklahoma. The deed, which was recorded, was with warranty and absolute upon its face. On the same day, at the
same time, a written agreement was entered into between,
substantially, the same parties. That agreement referred in
terms to the deed and bound the grantees therein to sell the
lots, collect the proceeds of sale, and out of the gross receipts
in cash received and collected on such sales, as soon as collected, pay over two-thirds to Sweet and his wife. The agree-

-

BOGARD v. SWEET.

209 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment recites that Sweet had transferred to .the other parties
a large number of promissory notes, which Sweet had taken
for purchase money due on certain town lots previously sold
by him. Bogard and his associates by the agreement bound
themselves to use due diligence to collect the notes, handing
over to Sweet two-thirds of the amount collected on them.
The parties with whom Sweet made this arrangement were
members of the Mangum Star Printing and Publishing Association, a partnership located at Mangum. The arrangement,
evidenced by the deed and the agreement, had for its object
the building up of that town, the parties, as stated, with whom
Sweet contracted receiving, as compensation for their services, one-third on the sales of lots and a like proportion of the
proceeds of any notes collected by them. There was no other
consideration for the arrangement. The absolute title to the
lots was put in Bogard and his associates for purposes of convenience, namely, that they might the more easily effect sales
of the property. The situation was accurately described by
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma when it said:
"The record discloses that at a (late when Greer County was
claimed to be a part of and under the jurisdiction of the State
of Texas, H. C. Sweet purchased the land in controversy from
that State, and while claiming the same under such title,
platte(l it into town lots which became, and were at the time
of the action, a part of the townsite of the city of Mangum.
H. C. Sweet, desiring to aid in the uphuilding of a newspaper
and the town generally, entered. into a contract with the dcfendants in error, and others, to allow the plaintiffs in error
to sell his townsite property, and to collect certain notes which
he then had, for property by him theretofore sold, the understanding and agreement being that, in order to facilitate
the business, the plaintiffs in error were to form a corporation for the purpose of running the newspaper and selling the
real estate, it being agreed that the corporation should sell
the property and collect the notes and pay to Sweet two-thirds
of the amount of the sales and retain one-third thereof as their
voL. ccx-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

commission. As a matter of convenience, in the carrying out
of the contract, a deed was made by Sweet and wife to all of
the property. Afterwards an attempt was made to form the
corporation. There being no law in Texas under which such
a corporation could be formed, that portion of the scheme
failed, and, as shown by the record, the project was dropped
by almost all, if not entirely all, of the parties connected therewith, and the deed, although recorded, was returned to Sweet,
together with thd notes."
As already indicated, at the time the above arrangement
was made it was supposed by some that Greer County was part
of the State of Texas. For many years, indeed, from the time
of its admission into the Union, Texas asserted that Greer
County was within its recognized limits. But subsequently,
in a suit brought in this court by the United States against the
State, it was adjudged that Greer County constituted no part
of the State of Texas, but was under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the United States. United States v. Texas, 162 U. S.(1895),
1, 90.
At a later date, January 18, 1897 (29 Stat. 490), Congress
passed an act whereby grants of lands in Greer County could
be obtained under the homestead law of the United States as
modified by that act. Under that legislation Sweet, on October 13, 1898, obtained a patent from the United States and
holds title under it.
The original scheme for the upbuilding of Mangum as outlined in the deed and agreement of 1890 failed and was wholly
abandoned by the parties to those instruments, and the present suit was brought by Sweet and wife for the cancellation
of the deed made to Bogard, and for a decree removing the
cloud created by it upon the title to the property in question.
The plaintiffs having died, after the institution of the suit,
there was a revivor of the suit in the name of their children and
heirs. Notwithstanding some of the parties to the origihal
scheme defended the suit, a decree was rendered in accordance
with the prayer of the plaintiffs, and that decree was affirmed

LANG v. NEW JERSEY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma. 17
Oklahoma, 40.
Neither argument nor citation of authorities is necessary
to establish the correctness of the decree below, and it is
Affirmed.

L4NG v. NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 649.

Argued April 6, 1908.-Decided April 27, 1908.

It is within the power of the State to divide accused persons into two classes,
those who are, and those who may be, accused, and, if there is no discrimination within the classes,-a person in one of the classes is not denied
the equal protection of the laws because he does not have the same right
of challenge of a grand juror as persons in the other class.
As construed by the highest court of that State, the statute of New Jersey
providing that challenges to grand jurors cannot be made after the juror
has been sworn does not deprive a person accused after the grand jury
has been impanelled and sworn of the equal protection of the law because
one accused prior thereto would have the right of challenge.
68 Atl. Rep. 210, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alan H. Strong for plaintiff in error:
To challenge a grand juror for any ground of disqualification is the right at common law of any one who is under prosecution for any crime whatever. 2 Hawkins P. C., c. 25, § 16;
1 Bishop Crim. Pro. (3d ed.), § 676; 4 Crim. Law Magazine
(March, 1883), 171 &c.
If any one of the jurors of the grand jury which finds an
indictment is disqualified, he vitiates the whole, though all
the other jurors should be unexceptionable. 2 Hawkins, P. C,
c. 25, § 28; 1 Bishop Crim. Pro., §749, § 3884 (3d ed.); 1
Chitty Crim. Law, 307; State v. Rockafellow, 1 Halstead, 332;

