OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Parties.

209 U. S.

musical composition is a rational collocation of sounds apart
from concepts, reduced to a tangible expression from which
the collocation can be reproduced either with or without . continuous human intervention. On principle anything that mechanically reproduces that collocation of sounds ought to be
held a copy, or if the statute is too narrow ought to be made
so by a further act, except so far as some extraneous consideration of policy may oppose. What license may be implied from
a sale of the copyrighted article is a different and harder question, but I leave it untouched, as license is not relied upon as
a ground for the judgment of the court.

DUN v. LUMBERMEN'S CREDIT ASSOCIATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No.-138..

Argued January 31, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Findings of fact in a suit in. equity made by both the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals will not be reversed by this court unless shown
to be clearly erroneous.
Where the lower courts have both found that the proportion of copyrighted
matter issued in a later publication, in this case a trade rating journal,
is insignificant compared with the volume of independently acquired information, an injunction should be refused and the owner of-the copyright remitted to a court of law to recover thedamages actually sustained.
144 Fed. Rep. 83, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John O'Connor and Mr. Charles K. Offield, with whom
Mr. Thomas M. Hoyne and Mr. Henry S. Towle were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. Fred H. Atwood and Mr. Charles 0. Loucks, with whom
Mr. Frank B. Pease was on the brief, for appellees.

DUN v. 'LUMBERMEN'S CREDIT ASS'N.
209 U. S.
MR. JUSTICE MOoDY'

Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants are the proprietors of a mercantile agency
which publishes at intervals a copyrighted book of reference
containing lists of merchants, manufacturers and traders in
the United States and the North American British possessions.
The book contains information as to the business, capital and
credit rating of those who are enumerated in it. The information is obtained at large expense and is useful to those who are
engaged ,in trade and commerce, who in large number subscribe to the privilege of consulting copies of it, which are
furnished but not sold to them. The appellee is a corporation
engaged in preparing and publishing a similar book, limited,
however, to those engaged in the lumber and kindred trades.
The book is called the Reference Book of the Lumbermen's
Credit Association. The appellants brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States a suit in equity, alleging an infringement of their copyright by the appellee, and praying for an
injunction, for an account, and for general relief. After hearing evidence, the Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the
bill for want of equity, which, with an immaterial modification, was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. An appeal
to this court was then taken..
Both the courts below made findings of fact, which are in
substantial agreement. Those findings best appear by quotations from the opinions which follow. The judge of the Circuit
Court said:
"From the evidence it appears that defendant admits using
complainants' book, but insists that it did so merely for the
purpose of comparison and for information as to names, but
that in every case it, at great cost, procured original and independent information as to the rating and other facts contained in defendants' book. There are in respondents' reference book more than 60,000 names. The evidence shows that
there are on hand more than 1,000,000 reports, replies to inquiries, etc. 'It further appears that defendants receive large

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S

numbers of newspapers, magazines, trade journals and bulletins;
that they use traveling men, lumber dealers, agents, lawyers,
justices of the peace, mercantile associations, railroad companies and the clippings sent out by a number of clipping
bureaus. At times defendants' mail reaches approximately
2,000 pieces of mail per day. A large force of employ6s and
large offices are required in the management of the business.
"On the other hand, a number of instances are disclosed
in the evidence which have strong tendency to. establish the
charge that defendants have used some of complainants' copyright material in making their book. The same mistakes occur
in each. In one case complainants' witness swears to an entirely fictitious item placed in complainants' book as a test,
which was duly appropriated by defendants. In regard to a
number of items said to be duplicated, defendants show original
investigation. Still, when all the explanations are considered,
it seems to be fairly established that defendants did take some
of the items complained of. Generally such indicia is held to
indicate a substantial theft of copyright property, but taking
all the evidence together I am satisfied that the items selected
as tests constitute the bulk of all the items taken, and that
they are of small moment in comparison with the whole.
"Defendants' book gives information on 113 subjects, complainants on 19. When we Consider that the matter consists
of names and other data, which, when true, must be the same
in any report, and that in many cases the source of information must often be the same with both the parties thereto, it
would seem to be just to lay down a different rule from that
which obtains in cases where syllabi and summaries of law
and fact are appropriated. Here seems to be no attempt to
coin money out of another's labor. It is clearly a case in which
the matter taken must be substantial and such as to really
work-injury to complainants.
"When we take note of the character of the items alleged
to bd' appiopriated on the one hand and the consequences of

DUN v. LUMBERMEN'S CREDIT ASS'N.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

granting the injunction prayed for, it would be an unwarrantable use of the power of the court to do so."
The Circuit Court of Appeals said:
"The question is one of fact, to be solved by a study of the
evidence. From our examination we concur in the conclusion
of the Circuit Court. 'The large features are that appellees'
book of about 60,000 names contain over 16,000 (and over
400 towns) that are not in Dun's; that of the names in common only about fifteen per cent have similar capital ratings,
that of the names with similar capital ratings a large proportion are classified differently respecting the particular businesses; and that six times as many different classes of information are given in appellees' book as in Dun's. On every
page of appellees' book the names that are not given in Dun's
and the names regarding which the information does not exceed or substantially vary from that given in Dun's bear the
relation of three to one. These features are ocular confirmation of appellees' testimony regarding the long-continued,
elaborate and comprehensive system of obtaining independent
information. It is futile to claim that such a system, producing twenty-five per cent more names than Dun, and six times
as many subjects of information concerning the persons named,
is kept up at great expense merely as a cloak. It may be that
the evidence would require a finding that with respect to a
few names an improper use of Dun's book was made by an
agent or correspondent of appellees. But the proportion is so
insignificant compared with the injury from stopping appellees' use of their enormous volume of independently acquired
information, that an injunction would be unconscionable. In
such cases the copyright owner should be remitted to his
remedy at law. Drone on Copyright, 413; Mead v. West Pub.
Co., 80 Fed. Rep. 380."
We cannot, as we are asked to do by the appellants, reverse
the findings of fact made by the Circuit Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. Successively considering t e same eviderice,
the two courts agree in the findings. In such a case in a suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S.

in equity the findings will not be disturbed by this court,
unless they are shown to be clearly erroneous. Towson v.
Moore, 173 U. S. 17; Brainardv.Buck, 184 U. S. 99; Shappirio
v. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 232. An examination of the voluminous
testimony shows that it. tended to sustain the findings, and
that, to say the least, there is no ground for saying that the
conclusions drawn from the evidence were clearly erroneous.
Accepting as true the facts found, we think the discretion
of the court was wisely exercised in refusing an injunction and
remitting the appellants to a court of law to recover such damage as they might there prove that they had sustained. The
reasous for this conclusion are tersely stated in the opinion of
the Court of Appeals, which we have quoted, and we approv&
them.
Judgment affirmed.

VENNER v. GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 485.

Submitted January 20, 1908.-Decided February 24, 1908.

Where the question of jurisdiction is certified to this court under ยง 5 of the
judiciary act of 1891, nothing but that question can be considered here.
In this case the question is considered both as to parties and subject-mat-

ter.
A cause is removable to the Circuit Court if it is one of which the court
is given jurisdiction.
While the court, in determining whether diverse citizenship exists, may
disregard the pleader's arrangement of parties and align them according
to actual interest, if the plaintiff's controversy is actually with all the
parties named as defendants, all of whom are necessary parties, none of
them can for jurisdictional purposes be regarded otherwise than as defendants; and so held, in an action against a corporation and others by
one of the stockholders, that where the complaint alleges joint fraudulent
conduct on the part of the corporation and the other defendants with
whom it jointly resists that uharge, the corporation cannot be realigned
as a party plaintiff even if it might be to its financial interest to have the
plaintiff prevail. Doctor v. Harrington,196 U. S.579.

