OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

209 U. S

advance of one-third of the purchase price, which appears in
the beginning as a loan to Rainey, is regarded at the end, with
manifest justice, as standing on the same footing as the later
advances made more specifically to the business. The whole
land is treated as firm capital, and the whole sum paid for is
treated as having been contributed, as in fact it was, by Smith,
and as contributed to the firm.
A partner has a lien on the firm's assets for the repayment
of his advances to the firm, and the ninth article, providing
for the repayment of the whole sum advanced by Smith for
the venture, means that he shall be repaid out of the land
regarded as assets. Taking the instrument as a whole, we are
of opinion that it gives the appellant a lien. Whether the defendants nevertheless may not be entitled to priority, is not
before us now. The only ground on which the demurrer was
or could have been sustained was that the plaintiff had no
lien at all.
Judgment reversed.
Demurrer overruled.

ARMOUR PACKING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
SWIFT AND COMPANY v. SAME.
MORRIS AND COMPANY v. SAME.
"TJDAHY PACKING COMPANY v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 467, 468, 469, 470.

Argued January 20, 21, 22, 1908.-Decided March 16, 1908.

A device to obtain rebates to be within the prohibition of the Interstate
Commerce Act of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 857, and the Elkins Act of
February 19, 1903, 32 Stat. 847, need not necessarily be fraudulent. The
term "device" as used in those statutes includes any plan or contrivance
whereby merchandise is transported for less than the ptblished rate, or
any other advantage is given to, or discrimination practiced in favor of,
the shipper.

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 1 S.

57

Syllabus.

In con truing the Elkins Act it will be read not only in the light of the previous legislation on the same subject, but also of the purpose which Congress had in mind in enacting it-to require all shippers to be treated
alike and to pay one rate as established, published and posted. New
Haven Railroad Co. v. InterstateCommerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361, 391.
The requirements of § 2 of Art. III of, and of the Sixth Amendment to, the
Federal Constitution relate to the locality of the offense and not to the
personal presence of the offender.
Transportation of merchandise by a carrier for less than the published rate
is, under the Elkins Act, a single continuing offense, continuously committed in each district through Which the transportation is conducted at
the prohibited rate, and is not a series of separate offenses, and the provision in the law making such an offense triable in any of those districts,
confers jurisdiction on the court therein, and does not violate § 2 of
Art. III of, or the Sixth Amendment to, the Federal Constitution, providing that the accused shall be tried in the State and district where the
crime was committed.
The Interstate Commerce Act embraces the whole field of interstate commerce; it does not exempt such foreign commerce as is carried on a through
bill of lading, but in terms applies to the transportation of property
shipped from any place in the United States to a foreign country and carried from such place to a port of transhipment.
The export and preference clause of the Constitution prohibits burdens only
by way of actual taxation and duty, or legislation intending to give, and
actually giving, the prohibited preference, and does not prohibit the
merely incidental effect of regulations of interstate commerce wholly
within the power of Congress; and the fact that such regulations in the
Interstate Commerce Act may affect the ports of one State having natural
advantages more than those of another State not possessing such advantages does not render the act unconstitutional as violating that provision.
There is no provision in the Elkins Act exempting special contracts from its
operation, nor is there any provision for filing and publishing such contracts, and the fact that a contract was at the published rate when made
does not legalize it after the carrier has advanced the published rate. The
provisions as to rates, being in force in a constitutional act of Congress
when the contract is made, are read into the contract and become a
part thereof, and the shipper, who is a party to such a contract, takes
it subject to any change thereafter made in the rate to which lie must
conform or suffer the penalty fixed by law.
An indictment which clearly and distinctly charges each and every element
of the offense intended to be charged, and which distinctly advises the
defendant of what he is to meet at the trial is sufficient; and so hcld in
this case as to an indictment for accepting rebates prohibited by the
Elkins Act, although the details of the device by which the rebates were
received were not set out.
While intent is to some extent essentinl n the commission of crime, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioners.

209 U. S.

without determining whether a shipper honestly paying a reduced rate
in the belief that ,itis the published rate .is liable under the statute,
held that shippers who pay such a rate with full knowledge of the published rates, and contend that they have a right so to do, commit the
offense prohibited by the Elkins Act, and are subject to the penalties
provided therein, even though their contention be a mistake of law.
153 Fed. Rep. 1, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank Hagerman and Mr. J. C. Cowin, with whom Mr.
A. R. Urion, Mr. Henry Veeder and Mr. M. W. Borders were
on the brief, for petitioners:
A shipper can be guilty of an offense under the Elkins Act
only if and when he is guilty of some bad faith or fraudulent
conduct in using some kind of device intentionally dishonest
or some underhand method of obtaining a rebate, concession
or discrimination. It was never intended that he should be
held guilty if he honestly believed he was entitled to the rate
at which he openly shipped.
The purpose of the' Elkins Act was to enlarge the character
of devices specified in the act of 1889, and it should have read
into it the language of the act of 1889 by making willfulness
and knowledge essential elements. Otherwise the statute is
incomplete and to be sustained at all must be read in the
light of the common law, leaving the court to infer that the
legislative intent was only to create guilt on the part of the
shipper if he knew of the published tariff and then by some
device obtained a concession thereunder. See United States v.
Carll, 105 U. S. 611; United States v. Milwaukee Refrigerator
Transit Co., 142 Fed. Rep. 247, 251, 252.
The word "device" cannot be taken from the statute, for
it is a word of well-defined legal meaning, the trial judge having
adopted that given by Webster. See A. & E. Enc. I aw (2d ed.),
448; 1 Bouvier's Law Dictionary (Rawle's Revision); Black's
Law Dictionary; Potter v. State, 27 Arkansas, 362; State v.
Blackstone, '115 Missouri, 427.
Not only was it necessary for the shipper to use some device,

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S

59

Argument for Petitioners.

but he must have known what the tariff was and used the device
to evade it. An innocent shipper paying a rate called for is
guiltless, even though the tariff is not charged. Pond-Decker
Lumber Co. v. Spencer, 30 C. C. A. 430; S. C., 86 Fed. Rep. 846,
848; United States v. Milwaukee Ref. Transit Co., 142 Fed. Rep.
247, 252.
There was no jurisdiction, because the alleged crime was
not committed within the district, nor any concession made
as to any portion of the route therein.
The indictment only charged, and the proof conclusively
showed, that the alleged concession was obtained in Kansas
upon that portion of the transportation which was conducted
east of the Mississippi River. So far as concerned the Western
District of Missouri, the shipment was merely carried through
it by the railway company.
If the Elkins Act is to be construed to authorize a prosecution of the shipper outside of the district in which the concession was obtained, it is unconstitutional under § 2, Art. III and
the Sixth Amendment of the Federal Constitution. Tinsley v.
Treat, 205 U. S. 20. So it was decided as to the act of 1889,
32 Stat. 847, prohibiting shippers from obtaining concessions,
In re Belknap, 96 Fed. Rep. 614, 616; Davis v. United States,
104 Fed. Rep. 136, 138; as to the act of 1887, 24 Stat. 379, 382,
prohibiting the giving of rebates, United States v. Fowkes, 53
Fed. Rep. 13, 16; and as to the anti-lottery act, § 3894, Rev.
Stat., as amended, 26 Stat. 465, in so far as it attempted to
authorize a prosecution in a district to which the matter was
mailed, where the offense charged was depositing the matter
in the mail, see United States v. Conrad, 59 Fed. Rep. 458, 465.
The Elkins Act, so far as it attempts to authorize a prosecution in any district through which the transportation is conducted, should not in any event be held to apply, as against a
shipper who committed no act within the district, especially
when the alleged concession was not upon any part of the route
therein.
The offense, if any was committed by the shipper, was com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioners.

209 U. S.

plete in Kansas. See Dealy v. United States, 152 U. S. 539;
In re Belknap, 96 Fed. Rep. 614, 616, 617; Davis v. United
States, 43 C.C. A. 448; S.C., 104 Fed. Rep. 136, 138, 139; United
States v. Fowkes, 3 C. C. A. 394; S. C., 53 Fed. Rep. 13, 16, 17.
The purpose of § 2, Art. III, of the Constitution, and the
Sixth Amendment, was to give to defendant the benefit of an
indictment by, and a trial before, a jury of his neighbors, or of
the community in which the offense was committed, and to protect him against a trial "as a stranger in a strange land" where
he had never been and in which he had committe4 no act.
Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20; Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S.
73, 83; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343, 349, 350; West
v. Gammon, 39 C. C. A. 271; Burton v. United States, 196 U. S.
283, 304.
The shipment being a through export shipment, was not
within the Elkins Act, which is limited to "the interstate or
foreign commerce" provided for in the original Inter§tate
Commerce Act, 24 Stat: 379, and amendments thereto, 25 Stat.
855. Its terms have no application to a through export shipment and as such shipments are excluded from the scope of
the act, § 6, requiring the publication of schedules, can have
no application thereto.
The act covers only rail carriers, or those with a combined
rail and water (inland) riute. Independent inland water
carriers are not included, nor water carriers under a common
arrangement with each other for continuous shipment. With
broadest interpretation of phrase, "common control," etc., it
is only water (inland) carriers that make joint rates with a
rail carrier that come within the act. All other carriers are
excluded, wagon, express, telegraph, etc. Ocean carriers,
whether acting independently or making common arrangement
with rail carriers, are outside the act; because they do not carry
the kind of commerce that is regulated by the act, that is, foreign commerce while it is outside port of transhipment or
entry; nor do they come under description of carriers regulated.
The act as construed by the Circuit Court of Appeals is in

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

61

Argument for Petitioners.

conflict with Art. I, § 9, par. 5 of the Constitution, which probibits the laying of any tax or duty on articles exported from
any State or the giving of any preference by any regulation of
commerce or revenue to the ports of one State over those of
another. This prohibition upon exported articles is a guaranty
against any form of legislation which burdens exportation.
Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S. 283.
The act as construed also violates that portion of the section
which prohibits any preference to the ports of one State over
those of another, as it gives a distinct preference to those ports
which are reached by water as against those which are reached
only by land. See Passenger Cases, 7 How. 284, 420; Ward v.
Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S.
283, 294.
The contract of the shippers with the Burlington Company
was a valid one. A carrier can make a contract to carry for a
fixed period at the then published rates, and such a contract
is not subject to the right of -the carrier, voluntarily and without the shipper's consent, to change it at any time, upon giving
the statutory notice, by an amendment of the tariff. The right
to make a change in the tariff is a privilege given to the carrier
which it can waive. While it can make no contract that is not
subject to a change in the rate by Congress or by finding of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, it can for itself agree to
carry for a given time at an existing published rate. See packing house contract case (Interstate Commerce Commission v.
C. G. W. Ry. Co., 141 Fed. Rep. 1003); special milk shipper's
contract (D., L. & W. R. Co., 147 Fed. Rep. 51, 61; certiorari
denied, 203 U. S. 588). The statute does not in terms interfere
with the contractual right of the carrier.
Without prohibition by a statute, such a contract is undoubtedly valid. Cin. &c. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Com. Commission,
162 U. S. 184; Pond-Decker Lumber Co. v. Spencer, 30 C. C. A.
430; S. C., 86 Fed. Rep. 846, 848; 4 Elliott on Railroads,
§ 1560; Memphis & C. Packet Co. v. Abell, 17 Ky. Law Rep. 191;
S. C., 30 S. W. Rep. 658, 659; Baldwin v. Liverpool & G. W.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Petitioners.

209 U. S.

Ry. Co., 48 Hun, 496, 500; Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Chicago &c.
Coal Co., 79 Illinois, 121, 126; Atlanta, K. & N. R. Co. v.
Home, 106 Tennessee, 73; S. C.1 59 S. W. Rep. 134, 135.
Having made the contract in accordance with the schedule,
it was the duty of the carrier to keep such schedule in force and
to carry for all others at the same rate. Hence, there was no
right to change the tariff during the life of the contract. Such
was the effect of the contract. Laurel Cotton Mills v. Gulf &c.
R. Cb., 84 Mississippi, 339.
The indictment was insufficient. The indictment omitted
the statutory words, "whereby . . . property
by any device . . . be transported at a less rate. . ."
Not only this, but it wholly failed to state how, in what manner,
or by what means the concession was obtained, or of what it
consisted. In a statutory offense, there cannot be any omission of any element of the offense as defined; and, the indictment must show the means by or the manner in which the
offense was committed. Even in statutory offenses of the
character in question, there is an exception to the general rule
that it is sufficient to charge the offense in the language of the
statute. United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168; United States v.
Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; United States v. Mann, 95 U. S. 583;
United States v. Hess, 124 U. S. 483; Evans v. United States,
153 U. S. 584; United States v. Brazean, 78 Fed. Rep. 464, 465,
and cases cited; Evans v. United States, 153 U. S. 584; Keck v_.
United States, 172 U. S. 434; United States v. Britton, 107 U. S.
655, 669.
The facts did not warrant a finding of any criminal guilt.
Nothing in the record warrants any imputation of bad faith.
It can well be contended that the element of willfulness in
the former law must be extended to the Elkins Act. Another
principle leads to exactly the same result. In the Federal
courts even if a statute does not use the words "willfully or
intentionally" or make scienter necessary, still the statute
will be construed to mean that there must have been knowledge of wrongdoing and actual guilty intent, unless, possibly,

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

63

Argument for the United States.

in cases where a specific act is unconditionally made an offense.
So where the offense is uttering forged paper, United States v.
Carll, 105 U. S. 611; obstructing justice, Pcttibone v. United
States, 148 U. S. 197; mailing obscene matter, United States
v. Slenker, 32 Fed. Rep. 691, 694; obstructing Federal election
officers, United States v. Taylor, 57 Fed. Rep. 391; adopting
device prohibited by the Elkins Act, United States v. Milwaukee Transit Co., 142 Fed. Rep. 247, 252. This is a recognition of the general rule that criminality will not be imputed
unless an act is done in bad faith, or with an intention of violating the law.
The Attorney General, Mr. Milton D. Purdy, Assistant to
the Attorney General, and Mr. A. S. Van Valkenburgh, United
States Attorney, for the United States:
The acts of the shippers in these cases in accepting and receiving a special rate or discrimination, whereby their goods
were carried at a less rate than that charged others for the same
service, 'constitutes a crime under the Elkins Act without regard to whether there was any secret device employed by them
to obtain from the railroad company the concession of such.
rebate, special rate or discrimination. The history of the prior
acts in pari materia, as well as of the Elkins Act itself, shows
this to be so. United States v. Tozer, 37 Fed. Rep. 635; United
States v. StandardOil Co., 148 Fed. Rep. 719; New York, New
Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
200 U. S.361; Harris v. Rosenberger, 145 Fed. Rep. 449; Durland v. United States, 161 U. S. 306.
The court had jurisdiction of the alleged crime for the reason
that the transportation was conducted through the district,
and the transportation of the property is an essential element
of the offense. The offense of giving or receiving rebates is
susceptible of prosecution whenever the transportation has
started by the delivery of the property to the carrier, and continues and is ever present until that transportation is completed. Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Heyman v. Southern

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for the United States.

209 U. S.

Ry. Co., 203 U. S. 270; United States v. Fowkes, 53 Fed. Rep.
13; In re Belknap, 96 Fed. Rep. 614; State v. Smith, 66 Missouri,
61; State v. McGraw, 87 Missouri,. 161; State v. Hatch, 91 Missouri, 568; Commonwealth v. Parker, 165 Massachusetts, 526;
State v. Bailey, 50 Ohio St. 636; Commonwealth v. Macloon, 101
Massachusetts, 1, 6.
In export shipments, the Elkins Act applies to interstate
inland carriage from the point of origin within the United States
to the port of transhipment. The Interstate Commerce Act
(§ 1) plainly applies to commerce with a country not adjacent.
It places that commerce entirely within the operation of the
act, whether the same is between the point of origin and the
port of transhipment or between the port of entry and the
point of destination. Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197.
This act was designed primarily in the case of export shipments for the protection of the shipper; no one shipper, but
s hippers in the aggregate. Take away the necessity of published
rates and of adherence to published rates, and there is little
to prevent the carrier, by a complex and devious system of
rate-making, from discriminating between various shippers
similarly situated from the point of origin to the port of transhipment, and of so skillfully concealing or excusing the same
that punishment in any given case would be well-nigh impossible. This, Congress foresaw, and in order to prevent this
greater evil it passed a law, which may possibly, as is the case
with all laws conferring general benefits, work some temporary
inconvenience in isolated cases.
In any event, the discretion was with Congress, and with
Congress alone, and the courts cannot do otherwise than enforce the plain provisions of the legislative act. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 477 et seq.; Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Baltimore &c. R. Co., 145 U. S. .63.
The act in question here is not unconstitutional as burdening
export traffic nor as giving preference to the ports of one State
over those of another. If it at all affects the traffic of any port

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

65

Argument for the United States.

injuriously it is purely incidental and does not' come within
the constitutional prohibition. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling &
Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 421, 434; South Carolinav. Georgia,
93 U. S. 13; Cooley v. Board of Port Wardens, 12 How. 299;
Norris v. Boston, 7 How. 414; United States v. Wood, 145 Fed.
Rep. 412;
The contract between the Burlington company and the packers, even if valid as between carrier and shipper after August 7,
1905, cannot avail either carrier or shipper as a defense to a
departure from the filed and published rate in force after that
date.
Since the passage of the Elkins amendment the shipper is
liable equally with the carrier for a departure from the filed and
published rate, and the mere soliciting, accepting, or receiving
of a concession or rebate is an offense. No intent is necessary
to the completion of that offense. Where the intent is not essential, a mistake or ignorance of fact is quite as immaterial as
mistake or ignorance of law. United States v. Leathers, 6
Sawyer, 17; State v. Griffith, 67 Missouri, 287; Beckham v.
Nacke, 56 Missouri, 546; People v. Roby, 52 Michigan, 577;
Church v. Minneapolis & St. L. Ry. Co., 14 S. Dak. 443.
The law stood upon the statute books when this contract
was made. Both parties contracted with reference to it, and
what subsequently might be done under it, even to the extent,
as has been held, that the law itself might be changed, because
the power to regulate and legislate respecting such commerce
is reserved in Congress. Fitzgerald v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co.,
63 Vermon.t, 173; McGowan v. Wilmington, 95 N. Car. 417;
Clarendon v. Rutland &c. Ry. Co., 75 Vermont, 6; St. -Anthony
v. St. PaulWater Co., 168 U. S. 372.
The indictments in these cases are sufficient. The employment of a dev'ice is not an essential element of the offense, and
with respect to the concession charged, the indictment fully
and sufficiently described it, what it was and of what it consisted. United States v. Britton, 1Q7 U. S. 655 (cited by petitioners), discussed. and distinguished. The charge in the inVoL. ccIx-5.

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209, U. S.

dictment fully meets all legal requirements. United States v.
Simmons, 96 U. S. 360, 362. And see Connors v. United States,
158 U. S.408, 411; Ledbetter v. United States, 170 U. S. 606, 611.
The facts fully warrant the finding of criminal*guilt. The
packers are conclusively presumed to have intended to do
what they did and are bound by the legal consequences of their
acts. New Haven R. R. Co. v. InterstateCommerce Commission,
200 U. S. 361, 396-398.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases are here upon writs of certiorari to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. By
stipulation there was a single petition for certiorari and the
cases in the Circuit Court of Appeals were considered together
on the record in the Armour Packing Company case, and, as
it is conceded in the brief of the learned counsel for the petitioners that the differences in the cases are unsubstantial, the
same course may be followed here.
Each of the petitioners was convicted in the District Court
of the United States, Western District of Missouri, for violation of the so-called Elkins Act of February 19, 1903, chap. 708,
32 Stat. 847, in obtaining from the Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railway Company an unlawful concession of 12 cents
per 100 pounds from the published and filed rate on that portion of the route between the Mississippi River and New York
for transportation upon.a shipment made August 17, 1905,
for carriage by rail of certain packing house products from
Kansas City, Kansas, to New York for export. 'Upon writs
of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit the sentences of conviction were affirmed. 153 Fed. lnep. 1.
The facts in the Armour case are briefly these: From May 9
to August 6, 1905, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company, with its connecting railroads east of the Mississippi River, under joint traffic arrangements, had filed, published and posted in accordance with the acts of Congress the

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

67

Opinion of the Court.

rates of shipment of the character in question, and showing
that the proportionate part thereof from points on the Mississippi River to New York was 23 cents per 100 pounds. Upon
June 16, 1905, the packing company contracted with the
Wilson Steamship line for space upon boats sailing in August
for certain shipments, and notified the Burlington Company
thereof, giving it a copy of the contract. On.June 17, 1905,
the Burlington Company contracted with the packing company to carry export shipments from Kansas City, Kansas,
of products named, until December 31, 1905, at a rate the
proportionate part of which from the Mississippi River to
New York city was 23 cents per 100 pounds as aforesaid.
Upon August 6, 1905, the tariff was amended and duly published and filed, showing that the proportionate part from
the Mississippi River to New York city was 35 cents instead
of 23 cents per 100 pounds. One of the connecting railroads
then objected to the carrying of the freight at the contract
rate hereinbefore stated, and a controversy arose between it
and the Burlington Company as to whether such contract
should apply, the Burlington Company claiming that it should,
the connecting carrier denying this contention. Upon August 17, 1905, the packing company delivered at Kansas City,
Kansas, to the Burlington Company sixty-seven tierces of
oleo oil, property of the character covered by the contract,
for export to Christiania, Norway, and upon receipt thereof at
Kansas City, Kansas, the Burlington Company issued and
delivered a bill of lading agreeing to carry the same to the
point of destination for a through rate, which included the
carriage by, and the rate of the steamship line, which bill of
lading was, according to the ordinary course of business, delivered to the Traders Despatch, one of the connecting carriers,
which took the same up and issued a through bill of lading
for the goods at the through rate. The bill was in triplicate,
one copy thereof being delivered to and accepted by the steamship company. The packing company paid to the Burlington
Company, as the initial carrier, the full through rate for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

carriage over the line of the Burlington Company and its connecting carriers and that of the steamship line, and from the
time of the delivery of the freight to the railway company at
Kansas City, Kansas, until it was delivered at the export
destination, it was exclusively handled by the carriers, rail
and steamship, the shipper having nothing to do with it.
The Burlington Company did, with connecting lines, transport
the property from Kansas City, Kansas, through the Western
District of Missouri and other States and districts to New York
city, where the Same was delivered to the steamship line.
The full rate for the through carriage thus paid was made up
so that the proportional part of the railroad carriage east of
the Mississippi River was 23 cents per 100 pounds, instead of
35 cents per 100 pounds, fixed by the amended and published
rate. The packing company at the time of making the shipment and paying the freight knew of the filing and publishing
of the amended tariff of August '5, 1905, but did not know
how the rate was apportioned or divided, or made up among
the respective carriers or points, except that it knew the steamship rate as named in the contract with the steamship owners.
At the time aforesaid the Burlington Company was a common carrier, engaged in the transportation of property byrailway under contract agreements and traffic arrangements
with certain other lines, extending from Kansas City, Kansas,
east to the city of New York and other seaboard points. There
were no fixed contract, agreements or traffi,€ arrangements with
the steamship lines, which were conducted as hereinafter set
forth. The ocean rate is variable, depending upon the season,
weather and other matters. The steamship must sail at a
given date and has a certain amount of space to be filled, so
that space may be at one time quoted to one person at one
price and 'at another time to another person at a different
price. The question of such rates vary from hour to hour, as
well as from day to day. For these, among other reasons, there
was no contract agreement or traffic arrangements between
the railroads and export steamship lines. The reservation of

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

space upon an ocean steamer inadvance is an important thing,
so that the packing company can be certain that its shipment
can go on the boats sailing at specified times. The packing
company has houses in different parts of the United States;
so that it cannot always at. the time of the contract for space
know from what particular point and over what road the
shipments will go.
Before August 6, 1905, shipments were made according to
the terms of the contract aforesaid, which were carried under
the terms thereof. The Armour Company contended and
insisted that the amendment increasing the tariff rate did
not and could not abrogate or impair the term of its contract.
These prosecutions were under the Elkins Act (32 Stat. 847),
and the first question argued concerns the construction of
that act, as to what. constitutes a crime on the part of the
shippers so far as obtaining a shipment by some manner of
device is concerned, it being the contention of the petitioners
that in order to work conviction the shipper must be guilty
of some bad faith or fraudulent conduct in the use of the device
or obtain. the rebate by some intentionally dishonest or underhanded method, concession or discrimination denounced by the
act. The history of the act in this feature may be of service in interpreting the meaning of Congress. The act of February 4, 1887, made no provision for criminal offenses against
the shippers, but it was provided (§ 2, ch. 104, 24 Stat. 379)
that if the common carrier should directly or indirectly, by
any special rate; rebate, or other device, demand, collect or
receive, through any person or persons, a greater or less compensation for any service rendered or to be rendered in the
transportation of property subject to the provisions of the
act, than it charges, demands, collects or receives, etc., from
any other person or persons for doing for him or them a like
service in the transportation of a like kind of traffic under
substantially the same circumstances, such common carrier
shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination, which by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

act was prohibited and made unlawful. And it was made unlawful for a common carrier to deviate from the published
schedule of rates, fares and charges. 24 Stat, § 6, p. 381,
ch. 104, February 4, 1887.
By the act of March 2, 1889 (25 Stat. 857, § 10), the shipper
was brought within certain criminal provisions of the law,
and one who should knowingly and willfully, by false billing,
false classifying, false weighing, false representation of the
contents of the package, or false report of weight, or by any
other device or means, with or without the consent or connivance of the carrier, obtain or dispose of property at less
than the regular rate established and in force, should be deemed
guilty of fraud.
It will be noticed that in these statutes the term device is
associated with other words indicative of its meaning, and in
the act of March 2, 1889, the shipper, for falsely acting as to
weighing, billing, classifying or obtaining the transportation
of property at less than the regular rate, or by any other device, was deemed guilty of fraud. In this act the term device,
as one of the means of consummating a fraud, shows the sense
in which the term is used by Congress. It was only fraudulent
conduct in obtaining transportation at less rates than others,
which was denounced by the act, and the imposition aimed
at was principally such as might be practiced by the shippers
upon the carriers in order to procure the preference.
I When we come to the Elkins Act we find the following provisions (32 Stat. 847):
"The willful failure upon the part of any carrier subject to
said acts to file and publish- the tariffs or rates and charges as
required by said acts or strictly to observe such tariffs until
changed according to law, shall be a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof the corporation offending shall be subject
to a fine not less than one thousand dollars nor more than
twenty thousand dollars for each offense; and it shall be unlawful for any person, persons or corporation to offer, grant or
give or to solicit, accept or receive any rebate, concession or

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

71

Opinion of the Court.

discrimination in respect of the transportation of any property
in interstate or foreign commerce by any common carrier
subject to said act to regulate commerce and the acts amendatory thereto whereby any such property shall by any device
whatever be transported at a less rate than that named in the
tariffs published and filed by such carrier, as is required by
said act to regulate commerce and the acts amendatory thereto,
or whereby any other advantage is given or discrimination
is practiced. Every person or corporation who shall offer,
grant, or give or solicit, accept or receive any such rebates,
concessions, or discriminations shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by
a fine of not less than one thousand dollars nor more than
twenty thousand dollars."
In this act we find punishment by imprisonment abolished,
and the shipper and carrier are placed upon the like footing,
and it is made unlawful for any person or corporation to offer,
grant, solicit, give, or to accept or receive, any rebate, concession or discrimination in respect to transportation of property in interstate or foreign commerce, whereby any such
property shall, by any device whatever, be transported for a
less rate than that published and filed by such carriers, or,
whereby any other advantage is given or discrimination
practiced. And we find the word device disassociated from
any such words as fraudulent conduct, scheme or contrivance,
but the act seeks to reach all means and methods by which
the unlawful preference of rebate, concession or discrimination
is offered, granted, given or received. Had it been the intention of Congress to limit the obtaining of such preferences to
fraudulent schemes or devices, or to those operating only by
dishonest, underhanded methods, it would have been easy to
have so provided in words that would be unmistakable in their
meaning. A device need not be necessarily fraudulent; the
term includes anything which is a plan or contrivance. Webster
defines it to be "that which is devised or formed by design; a
contrivance; an invention; a project," etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

This act is not only to be read in the light of the previous
legislation, but the purpose which Congress evidently had in
mind in the passage of the law is also to be considered.
The views of this court, speaking through Mr. Justice White,
in N. Y., New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. Interstate Cornnerce Comniission, 200 U. S. 361, 391, are apposite here:
"It cannot be challenged that the great purpose of the act
to regulate commerce, .whilst seeking to prevent unjust and
.unreasonable rates, was to secure equality of rates as to all
and to destroy. favoritism, these last being accomplished by
requiring the publication of tariffs and by prohibiting secret
departures from such tariffs, and forbidding rebates, preferences, and all other forms of undue discrimination. To this
extent and for these purposes the statute was remedial and
is, therefore, entitled to receive that interpretation which reasonably accomplishes the great public purpose which it was
enacted to subserve.

.

.

. The' all-embracing prohibition

against either directly or indirectly charging less than the
pulished rates shows that the purpose of the statute was to
make the prohibition applicable to every method of dealing
by a carrier by which the forbidden result could be brought
about. If the public purpose which the statute was intended
to accomplish be borne in mind, its meaning becomes, if possible, clearer."
The Elkins Act proceeded upon broad lines and was evidently intended to effectuate the purpose of Congress to require that all shippers should be treated alike, and that the
only rate charged to any shipper for the same ,service under
the same conditions should be the one established, published
and posted as required by law. It is not so much the particular form by which or the motive for which this purpose was
accomplished, but the intention was to prohibit any and all
means that might be resorted to to obtain or receive concessions and rebates from the fixed rates, duly posted and published.
It is next contended that there is no jurisdiction to prosecute

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the offense named, because the alleged offense, if any, was not
committed in the Western District of Missouri, where the
prosecution was had, but the same was complete in Kansas
City in the State of Kansas; and it is contended in this connection that if the act can be construed to include prosecutions in other districts it is unconstitutional within the provisions of the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, which provides that the accused shall have
the right to be tried by an impartial jury of the State and
district wherein the crime shall have been committed. Art. III,
§ 2, and Amendment VI.
As to :the construction of the act, in addition to the section
of the act above quoted, it is further provided in the Elkins
law (32 Stat. 847) as to jurisdiction:
(Prosecution-Jurisdiction) "Every violation of this section
shall be prosecuted in any court of the United States having
jurisdiction of crimes within the district in which such violation was committed or through which the transportation may
have been conducted; and whenever the offense is begun in
one jurisdiction and completed in another it may be dealt
with, inquired of, tried, determined, and punished in either
jurisdiction in the same manner as if the offense had been
actually and wholly committed therein."
In this case the indictment charges the actual transportation
of the property from Kansas City, Kansas, to New York city,
the course of transportation being through the Western District of Missouri, in which the prosecution was had.
We are not now concerned with the construction of the act
in making provision for punishing the carrier or shipper for
offering, granting or giving, or soliciting, accepting or receiving, rebates, concessions, or discriminations, irrespective of
actual transportation, for it is specifically made an offense to
receive any rebate or concession whereby any such property is
by any device whatever transported at a less rate than that
named, published and filed by the carrier; and jurisdiction is
given to prosecute in any criminal court of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

in the district through which the transportationmay have been
conducted.
Having in view the offense charged in this case, we think
it is clearly within; the terms of the act making it penal to
procure the actual transportation, by any of the means denounced in the act, of goods at a less rate than that named
in the tariffs. It is the purpose of the act to punish those who
give or receive transportation, in the sense of actual carriage,
at a concession from the published rates. Wherever such
transportation is received, there the offense is to be deemed
to have been committed. Why may this not be so? In this
feature of the statute, the transportation being of the essence
of the offense, when it takes place, whether in one district or
another, whether at the beginning, at the end, or in the middle of the journey, it is equally and at all times committed.
Congress also embraced in § 1 of the Elkins Act offenses not
depending upon actual transportation through districts; and
as to the trial of such, it also made provisions in the venue
section.
For the penal Section is not only aimed at offenses whereby
property is transported in interstate commerce at less than
published rates, but in terms covers the offering, granting,
giving, soliciting, accepting or receiving of rebates, concessions or discriminations, "whereby any other advantage is
given or discrimination is practiced" in respect of interstate
transportation.
Congress doubtless had in mind that some of these offenses
might be complete in a single district; some might be begun
in one and completed in another; and those wherein transportation-actual carriage-was made an essential element might
continue through several districts, and hence undertook to
provide places for trial of any offense which might be committed against the provisions of the act. It is at least certain
that these sections, construed together, make an offense of
obtaining transportation at a concession from the published
rate, which shall be triable in any district through which it

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is had. That is the offense of which the accused is charged
in this. case, and such is the district in which it was tried.
It is contended that the contrary was held in the case of
Davis v. United States, 104 Fed. Rep. 136, decided in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. In that case the
prosecution was for false billing by the shipper, under § 10
of the act of 1889, wherein the statute provided punishment
for the offense in a single district, and it was there held that
the crime was complete in the district in which the false billing was made and the goods delivered to the carrier for transportation, and that its actual carriage was not an essential
element of the offense; and that a prosecution in Texas for
goods falsely billed and delivered to the carrier in Ohio could
not be maintained.
Under the amended act, transportation, with a rebate, or
at a concession from the established rates, is made an offense
as to the shipper as well as the carrier, thereby differentiating
the Elkins Act from § 10 of the act of 1889 as construed in
the Davis case. In the Davis case it was specifically'said:
"Such transportation. may be through a number of districts, but Congress has given jurisdiction for punishment of
the crime in the district in which the offense is committed.
It must have been in the contemplation of Congress that the
fraudulent representations may be made in one place, and the
transportation, in the sense of actual 'carriage, obtained as a
result thereof, may be to a State or district remote from the
place of delivery, and through a number of districts of the
United States. If it was contemplated that the crime could
only be committed when he carriage contracted for was concluded, quite a different provision would have been inserted
than the one requiring punishment in the district where committed. Congress, in passing this act, and providing for the
place of trial and punishment in a single district, evidently.
contemplated the consummation of the offense at the place
where the goods are billed by the shipper and the delivery
for transportation takes place."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

But it is said this construction of the act is in violation of
the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
which requires crimes to be prosecuted and punished in the
State or district where the same are committed, and that as
the transportation was had, at least, in part in Kansas, the
offense was there completed and could not be prosecuted elsewhere. But the constitutional provision does not require the
prosecution of the defendant in the district wherein he may
reside at the time of the commission of the offense, or where
he may happen to be at that time, provided he is prosecuted
where the offense is committed. The constitutional requirement is as to the locality of the offense and not the personal
presence of the offender. In re Palliser, 136 U. S. 257, 265;
Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 387. This doctrine
finds illustration in Palliser'scase, supra, in which a person
was prosecuted in Connecticut for mailing a letter in New
York, addressed to the postmaster in the former State, to
induce him to violate his official duty, and it was therein.
argued that the offense was complete in New York when the
letter was mailed, and that only in the New York district
could the prosecution be constitutionally had; but this court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Gray, said: "There can be no
doubt at all, if any offense was committed in New York, the
offense was continuing to be committed when the letter reached
the postmaster in Connecticut."
In that case the offender had done no act out of New York
and the acts performed by him were complete when the letter
was delivered at the post office in that State, but this court
held the crime to be a continuing one. We think the doctrine
for stronger reason applies in the present case, for transportation is an essential element of the offense, and, as we have
said, transportation equally takes place over any and all of
the traveled route, and during transportation the crime is
being constantly committed. It ,does not follow from this
view of the character of the offense that a single transportation of goods can be made the basis of repeated separate

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U..S.

Opinion of the Court.

criminal charges in each of the districts through which the
transportation at an illegal rate is had. Take the present case..
The charge is of a single, continuous carriage from Kansas
City to New York at a concession- from the legal rate for the
part of the carriage between the Mississippi River and New
York of 12 cents for each 100 pounds so transported. This
is a single, continuing offense, not a series of offenses, although
it is continuously committed in each district through which
the transportation is received at the prohibited rate.
To say that this construction may work serious hardship
in permitting prosecutions in places distant from the home
and remote from the vicinage of the accused is to state an
objection to the policy of the law, not to the power of Congress to pass it. Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 78. But this is
-a large country, and the offense under consideration is one
which may be constantly committed through its length and
breadth. This situation arises from modern facilities for transportation and intercommunication in interstate transportation,
and considerations of convenience and hardship, while they
may appeal to the legislative branch of the Government, will
not prevent Congress from exercising its constitutional power
in the management and control of interstate commerce. We
think there was jurisdiction to prosecute for the offense charged
within the Western District of Missouri.
It is turther contended by petitioners that the statutes have
no application to a shipment on a through bill of lading from
an interior point in the United States to a foreign port. It is
alleged that the Elkins law refers to the original Interstate
Commeice Act, and that its terms do not include such shipments. Analyzing the first section of the act (24 Stat. 379),
it is said that it applies to the following kinds of commerce:
(a) interstate commerce; (b) commerce between the United
States and an adjacent foreign country; (c) commerce between
places in the United States passing through a foreign country;
(d) commerce from the United States to a foreign country,
only while being transported to a point of transhipment;

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

(e) commerce from a foreign country to points in the United
States, but only while being carried from port of entry either
in the United States or an adjacent foreign country. And, it
is contended, that § 6, as amended (25 Stat. 855), does not
require the filing of through export tariffs.
The purpose of Congress to embrace the whole field of interstate commerce is made apparent by the exclusion only of
wholly domestic commerce in the last clause of section one of
the original act of 1887, and in the'declaration of the scope and
purpose of the act declared in its title. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 211.
There is no attempt in the language of the act to exempt such
foreign commerce as is carried on a through bill of lading;
on, the contrary, the act in terms applies to the transportation
of property shipped from any place in the United States to a
foreign country and carried from such place to a port of transhipment.
What reasonable ground is there for supposing that Congress intended to exercise no control over such commerce if
it happens to be billed through to the foreign port? Such
construction would place such important commerce shipped
in the United States to a port for transhipment abroad wholly
outside the restrictions of the law, and enable shippers to
withdraw such commerce from the regulations enforced against
other interstate commerce by the expedient of a through bill
of lading.. Take the present case. The through rate is obtained by adding the ocean rate to the inland rate. There is
no contractual relation between the railroad carrier and the
ocean carrier. The ocean rate is uncertain and variable, depending upon time of sailing and available space. The accommodation for ocean shipment was obtained by the shipper
and by it made known to the inland carrier. We think the
language of the statute, read in the light of the manifest purpose of its passage, shows the intent of Congress to bring
interstate commerce within the control of the provisions of
*the law up to the time .of ocean shipment. This construction

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is reinforced by the broad provisions of § 6 of the act as to
publishing schedules, showing rates, fares and charges, and
filing the same with the Interstate Commerce Commission.
That such rates, notwithstanding through bills of lading, were
subject to the provisions of the act, was held, upon full consideration,. and rightfully, as we think, by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Re Tariffs v. Export and Import Traffic,
10 I. C. C. Rep. 55.
It is contended that the act, as construed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, makes it conflict with Art. I, § 9, par. 5,
of the Constitution, which provides: "No tax or duty shall
be laid on articles exported from any State. No preference
shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to
the ports of one State over those of another; nor shall vessels
bound to or from one State be obliged to enter, clear or pay
duties in another."
The petitioner contends that to permit a statute to have
such application to articles intended for foreign export is to
place a burden on the exercise of this right, because before the
shipper can lawfully send his goods abroad and before the
carrier can lawfully accept them there must be a compliance
with the established rate on file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission. This rate is subject only to be changed as provided by law; and this* can be done without notice to the
exporter and regardless of his power to comply with the legal
rate and meet the competition at the seaport and 'the conditions of foreign markets. These things, it is said place a distinct burden upon export trade, and therefore come within
the constitutional prohibition. But it is to be observed that
the Constitution provides for a burden only by the way of'
taxation or duty, and unless the alleged interference amounts
to such taxation or duty it does not come within the constitutional prohibition. Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418.
The regulations of interstate commerce provided by the
statute now under consideration are within the acknowledged
power of Congress under the interstate commerce clause of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

the Constitution. There is no attempt to levy duties on goods
to be exported, and the mere incidental effect-In the legal
regulation of interstate commerce upon such exportations
does not come within this constitutional prohibition.
Nor do we think there is any more force in the contention
that this legislation amounts to a preference of ports of one
State over those of another within the meaning of the constitutional -provision under consideration. This provision was
intended to prevent legislation intended to give and having
the effect of giving preference to the ports of one State over
those of another State. It may be true that the regulation
of interstate commerce by rail has the effect to give an advantage to commerce wholly by water and to ports which can
be reached by means of inland navigation, but these are natural
advantages and are not created by statutory law. The fact
that regulation, within the acknowledged power of Congress.
to enact, may affect the ports of one State more than those of
another cannot be 'construed as a violation of this constitutional provision. South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, 13;
Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge Company, 18 How.
421, 433.
It is strongly urged that there is nothing in the acts of
Congress regulating interstate commerce which can render
illegal the contract between the shipper and the railroad company covering the period from June to December, 1905. The
contract, it is insisted, was at the legal, published and filed
rate, and there is nothing in the law destroying the right of
contract so essential to carrying on business such as thQ petitioner was engaged in. But this contention loses sight of the
central and controlling purpose of thelaw, which is to require
all shippers to be treated alike, and but one rate, to be charged
for similar carriage of freight, and that the filed and published
rate, equally known by and available to every shipper.
In the Elkins Act, Congress has made it a penal offense to
give or receive transportation at less than the published rate.
This rate can only be raised' by ten days' or lowered by three

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

81

Opinion of the Court.

days' notice. See. 6, 25 Stat. 855. There is no provision excepting special contracts from the operation of the law. One
rate is to be charged and that the one fixed and published in
the manner pointed out in the statute, and subject to change
in the only way open by the statute. There is no provision
for the filing of contracts with shippers and no method of
making them public defined in the statute. If the rates are
subject to secret alteration by special agreement then the
statute will fail of ts purpose to establish a rate. duly published, known to all, and from which neither shipper nor
carrier may depart.
It is said that if the carrier saw fit to change the published
rate by contract the effect will be to make the rate available
to all other shippers. But the law is not limited to giving
equal rates by indirect and uncertain methods. It has provided for the establishing of one rate, to be filed as provided,
subject to change as provided, and that rate to be while in
force the only legal rate. Any other constructi6n of the statute opens the door to the possibility of the very abuses of
unequal rates which it was the design of the statute to prohibit and punish.
Nor do we find anything in the provisions of the statute
inconsistent with this conclusion in the fact that the statute
makes the rate as published or filed conclusive on the carrier.'
The carrier files and publishes the rate. It may well be concluded by its own action. But neither shipper nor carrier may
vary from the duly filed and published rate without incurring
the penalty of the law.
It may be, as urged by petitioner, that this construction
renders impossible the making of contracts for the future
delivery of such merchandise as the petitioner deals in, and
that the instability of the rate introduces a factor of uncertainty, destructive of contract rights heretofore enjoyed in
such property. This feature of the law, it is insisted, puts the
shipper in many kinds of trade at the mercy of the carrier,
who may arbitrarily change a rate, upon the faith of which
VOL. ccix-6

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

contracts have been entered into. But -the right to make such
regulations is inherent in the power of Congress to legislate
respecting interstate commerce, and such considerations of
inconvenience or hardship address themselves to the lawmaking branch of the Government. New Haven. Railroad
Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 399.
It may be that such contracts should be recognized, giving
stability to rates for limited periods; that the contracts being
filed and published, and the rate stipulated known and open
to all, no injustice would be done. But, as we have said, such
considerations address themselves to Congress, not to the
courts. It is the province of the judiciary to enforce laws
constitutionally enacted, not to make them to suit their own
views of propriety or justice.
The statute being within the constitutional power of Congress, and being in force when the contract was made, is read
into the contract and becomes a part of it.
If the shipper sees fit to make a contract covering a definite
period for a rate in force at the time he must be taken to have
done so subject to the possible change of the published rate
in the manner fixed by statute, to which he must conform
or suffer the penalty fixed by law.
The right to .charge other than the published rate because
of a contract alleged to have provided for the rate in force at
the time, but, owing to changed conditions, subsequently
becoming inadequate to provide for the payment of the published rate, was dealt with by this court in New Haven Railroad Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 361,
where a contract for the purchase and carriage of coal at its
inception produced the established rate to the carrier, which
it subsequently failed to do. This court, speaking through
Mr. Justice White, said:
"Further, as the prohibition of the interstate commerce
act is ever operative, even if the facts established that at the
particular time the contract was made, considering the then
cost of coal and other proper items, the net published tariff

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

rates would have been realized by the Chesapeake and Ohio
from the contract, which is not the case, it is apparent that
the deliveries under the contract came under the prohibition
of the statute whenever for any cause, such as the enhanced
cost of coal at the mines, an increase in the cost of the ocean
carriage, etc., the gross sum realized was not sufficient to net
the Chesapeake and Ohio its published tariff of rates. This
must be the case in order to give vitality to the prohibitions
of the interstate commerce act against the acceptance at any
time by a carrier of less than its published rates. We say this
because we think it obvious that such prohibitions would be
rendered wholly ineffective by deciding that a carrier may
avoid those prohibitions by making a contract for the sale of
a commodity stipulating for the payment of a fixed price in the
future and thereby acquiring the power during the life of the
contract to continue to execute it, although a violation of the
act to regulate commerce might arise from doing so."
It is alleged that the indictment is insufficient, in that it fails
to set out the kind of device by which traffic was obtained, and
of what the concession consisted, and how it was granted.
Authorities are cited to the proposition that in statutory
offenses every element must be distinctly charged and alleged.
This court has frequently had occasion to hold that the accused
is entitled to know the nature and cause of the accusation
against him, and that a charge must be sufficiently definite
to enable him to make his defense and avail himself of the
record of conviction or acquittal for his protection against
further prosecutions and to inform the court of the facts
charged, so that it may decide as to their sufficiency in law
to support a conviction, if one be had, and the elements of the
offense must be set forth in the indictment with reasonable
particularity of time, place and circumstances. And it is true
it is not always sufficient to charge statutory offenses in the
language of the statutes, and where the offense includes generic
terms it is not sufficient that the indictment charge the offense
in the same generic terms, but it must state the particulars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

United States v. Hess, 124 U. S. 483; Evans v. United States,
153 U. S. 584. But an indictment which distinctly and clearly
charges each and every element of the offense intended to be
charged, and distinctly advises the defendant of what he is
to meet at the trial, is sufficient.
And in Ledbetter v. United States, 170 U. S. 606, 612, Mr.
Justice Brown, speaking for the court, said:
"Notwithstanding the cases above cited from our reports,
the general rule still holds good that upon an indictment for
a statutory offense the offense may be decribed in the *.ords
of the statute, and it is for the defendant to show that greater
particularity is required by reason of the omission from the
statute'of some element of the offense."
In the present case no objection was made to the indictment
until after verdict by motion in arrest of judgment.
Had it been made by demurrer or motion and overruled it
would not aviil the defendant, in error proceedings, unless it
appeared that the substantial rights of the accused were prejudiced by the refusal to require a more specific statement of the
particular mode in which the offense charged was committed.
See Rev. Stat. U. S. § 1025; Connors v. United States, 158 U. S.
408, 411.
There can be no doubt that the accused was fully advised
of and understood the precise facts which were alleged to be a
violation of the statute.
As we interpret this law, it is intended, among other things,
to prohibit and punish the receiving of a concession for the
transportation of goods from the duly filed and published rate.
Each and all of the elements of the offense, with allegations of
time, place, kind of goods and name of carrier, are distinctly
charged in the indictment, and include the fixing of the published rate at 23 cents per 100 pounds; the changing of the rate
and the new publication at 35 cents per 100 pounds; the knowledge of this change on the part of the shipper, and the carriage
of the goods over a described route at a concession of the difference between the published and the contract rate-all these

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

facts being stated, the indictment is clearly sufficient. Whether
it was necessary to charge actual knowledge of the change of
rate on the shipper's part is a question not involved in this case,
as the indictment charges such knowledge, and the facts stipulated show that the shipper knew of the establishing of the new
rate when the goods descrioed in the indictment were shipped.
It is again contended that the submission in the trial court
of the question of whether there was a device to avoid the operation of the act and to obtain the fransportation at the less rate,
was prejudicial to the petitioners, as such issue was not within
the agreed facts upon which the case was tried.
It is true, as we have held in another part of this opinion,
that no device or contrivance, secret or fraudulent in its nature,
is requisite to the commission of the offense outlined in the
statute, and that any means by which transportation by a concession from the established rate was had is sufficient to work
a conviction. Hence this charge was not prejudicial to the petitioner.
It is contended by the petitioner that there is nothing in the
facts found in this case to show any intentional violation of
the law; that on the contrary the' petitioner belic~e l itself. to
be within its legal rights -ininsisting upon the performance of
its contract, and maintained in good faith that the Interstate
Commerce Act did not and could not interfere with it, and that
the statute had no application to a shipment of goods for exportation in the manner shown in this case. While intent is in
a certain sense essential to the commission of a crime, and in
some classes of cases it is necessary to show moral turpitude
in order to make out a crime, there is a class of cases-within
whiph we think the one under consideration falls, where purposely doing a thing prohibited by statute may amount to an
offense, although the act does not involve turpitude or moral
wrong. In this case the statutes provide it shall be penal to
receive transportation of goods at less than the published rate.
Whether shippers who pay a rate under the honest belief that
it is the lawfully established rate, when in fact it is not, are

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
BRuwER, J., dissenting.

20

U. S.

liable under the statute because of a duty resting on them to
inform themselves as to the existence of the elements essential
to establish a rate.as required by law, is a question not decided
because not arising on this record. The stipulated facts show
that the shippers had knowledge of the rates published and
shipped the goods under a contention of their legal right so to
do. This was all the knowledge or guilty intent that the act
required. ' 1 Bish. Cr. Law (5th ed.), § 343. . A mistake of law as
to the right to ship under the contract after the change of rate
is unavailing upon well-settled principles. Reynolds v. United
States, 98 U. S.; 145.
Finding no error in the judgments of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the same are
Affirmd.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the disposition of this

case.
MR. JUSTICE BIREWER dissenting: I dissent from the opinion
and judgment in this case, and, without noticing other objections, I rest that dissent upon this single ground: On June 17,
1905, the Burlington Railway Company made a contract with
the petitioner, the Armour Packing Company, for the transportation of certain products from Kansas City, Kansas, to New
York, this contract to remain in force until December 31, 1905.
No objection is made to the reasonableness of this contract or
the rates named. The time during which it was to run was
brief, less than seven months, and but for the legislation of
Congress there would be no question of its validity, or that it
could be enforced without subjecting either party thereto to
any liability, civil or criminal. On August 6 the Burlington
Company and its connecting carriers filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission an amendment to their tariffs, which
was duly posted and published, and by which the rate from
Kansas City, Kansas, to New York was increased.
On August 17, 1905, the Armour Packing Company delivered

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U S.

87

BREwER, J., dissenting.

to the Burlington Company, under its contract, sixty-seven
tierces of oleo oil for transportation to New York. The railway
company accepted the shipment, issued a through bill of lading
and received pay upon the basis of the rates fixed by the contract of June 17. Now, because the packing company insisted
upon compliance by the railway company with its contract of
transportation-andy the railway company (recognizing the
binding force of the contract) accepted the transportation and
received payment at the rates named therein-the packing
company is adjudged a criminal and fined the sum of $15,000.
I want to emphasize this matter. The railway company and
the packing company entered into a fair and reasonable contract for transportation. Independently of the statute, it was
valid in all respects, and could have been enforced by the packing company against the railway company, but according to
the ruling of the court the railway company was authorized
arbitrarily to break the contract, raise the amount to be paid
for transportation-thus unsettling the business of the shipper,
even it may be to the extent of wholly destroying it. Sustaining under those circumstances the power of the carrier and
punishing the shipper shocks my sense of justice, and I cannot
impute to Congress an intent by its legislation to make possible
such a result.
It has been one of the boasts of our jurisprudence that it
upholds the sacredness of contracts. By constitutional provision a State is estopped from passing a law impairing the
obligation of a contract, and again and again has this court
stricken down legislation having such effect. While there is
no such restriction upon the power of Congress, yet Congress
has in this case broken no contract. It has simply, as held by
the court, given permission to a carrier, arbitrarily and without
inquiry or decision by any tribunal, to repudiate its contract.
Again, we have held that in "enacting the statutes establishing the Interstate Commerce Commission the purpose of
Congress was to facilitate and promote commerce." Texas &
Pacific Railway v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
BREWER,

J., dissenting.

209 U. S.

197, 198. But to deny to parties the power of agreeing upon
rates of transportation for a reasonable time tends to destroy
and not promote commerce. One of the conditions of successful business-one of the things which induces new industriesis the ability to provide in advance for certainty of expenditures, including among them the cost of transportation. Who
will engage in any new enterprise or invest money in a manufacturing industry when he knows that he cannot make a definite contract for rates of transportation to and from his factory,
but is advised that whatever contract he makes may, at the
whim of the carrier, upon ten days' notice, be set aside and a
higher rate imposed?
Further, it seems to be implied that Congress has given express authority to the carrier to raise its rates, but this is not
so. The single provision is that it shall not raise its rates without giving ten days' notice. It is a limitation upon power
instead of a grant of authority.
It may be said that the remedy of the shipper is to pay the
increased rhtes and then sue the carrier for the excess. But
upon what ground can such an action be maintained? If the
contract is no longer valid, if it has been destroyed by the mere
action of the carrier inpublishing a new tariff, and the rates
of the latter are in themselves reasonable, although in excess
of the contract provisions, how can a shipper recover damages?
The contract is gone, has ceased to be valid, the new rates are
reasonable, and the shipper must abide by the consequences
of the arbitrary act of the carrier.
But, it may be said, that prescribing the limitation of ten
days' notice of an increase in rates is an implied authority to
the carrier to make such a raise, providing the new rates are
reasonable. To my mind it seems more in accordance with the
spirit and purpose of the Interstate Commerce Act to hold that,
there being no express authority given to raise rates, the-fact
that the railway company has made a contract to operate for
a reasonable time should be construed as an inhibition upon its
right to make such a raise, and that the rates as fixed by its

ARMOUR PACKING CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209 U. S.

BRIZWxR,

89

J., dissenting.

contract should continue for all shippers until the termination
of the period named therein.
Obviously, from the tone of the opinion of the court the wrong
done to the shipper is recognized, and the argument is only
that the responsibility for the wrong rests upon Congress. In
other words, the court has unloaded upon Congress the injustice
which the construction placed by it upon the statute accomplishes. To my mind a better way would be to enforce the contract and thus secure justice in this case, leaving to Congress
the enactment of additional legislation, if deemed necessary,
to prevent the possibilities of secret arrangements between
carrier and shipper.
I am authorized to say that the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice Peckham concur in this dissent. They are also of the
opinion that the trial court, the District Court of the Western
District of Missouri, had no jurisdiction of the alleged offense,
but that such jurisdiction was vested in the District Court of
Kansas, holding that when goods are delivered to the carrier,
and the shipper has solicited, accepted or received any rebate,
concession or discrimination from such carrier, "in respect
to the transportation" of the goods, the crime is then complete,
at least so far as regards the shipper, and it cannot be made
a continuing crime in each district through which the goods
pass in their transportation. The Constitution has made provision for the venue of criminal actions or prosecutions, and
their nature cannot be altered by legislative enactment, so as
to embrace the whole country in one vast district. A provision
in a statute of this nature by which it is possible to find an
indictment and to have a trial at the most remote point from
the actual commission of the offense, ought not to be approved
as a compliance with the Constitution.

