OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

LIPPHARD v. HUMPHREY.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 188.

Argued March 20, 1908.-Decided April 6,1908.

Inability to read does not create a presumption that a testator does not
know the contents of a paper declared by him to be his last will and duly
executed as such.
There is a presumption that the testator does know the contents of a will
properly executed, which, while not conclusive, must prevail in the absence
of proof of fraud, undue influence or want of testamentary capacity, even
where testator's inability to read is proved.
In the absence of proof of want of testamentary capacity at the date of the
will, declarations of the testator as to the contents thereof are inadmissible

to prove lack of knowledge of such contents.
28 App. D. C.355, affirmed.
LORAINE LIPPHARD, of the District of Columbia, died December 9, 1903, leaving a paper writing purporting to be her last
will and testament, bearing date April 27, 1898, duly attested
by -three witnesses, and naming Rev. Mr. Meador as executor.
Decedent left surviving her as her next of kin and sole heirs
at law her husband, Adolph F. Lipphard, Sr.; three sons, named
John, William A. and Adolph F. Lipphard, Jr.; two daughters,
named Sophia L. Hellen, born Lipphard, and Capitola L. Anderson, born Lipphard; sixteen grandchildren, four of whom
were infants under the age of 21 years. All the other of her
heirs and next of.kin were of lawful age.
Decedent's property consisted of a small quantity of personal
property valued at $350 and some real estate valued at $10,000.
The husband, Adolph F. Lipphard, Sr., and two of the sons,
William A. and Adolph F. Lipphard, Jr., filed a caveat to the
probate of the will. All of the other next of, kin and heirs at
law became parties in one way or another. Before the issues
were framed on the caveat the Rev. Mr. Meador departed this
fife. Thereupon decedent's daughters, Capitola L. Anderson

LIPPHARD v. HUMPHREY.
209 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and Sophia L. Hellen, beneficiaries under the writing, petitioned the court for leave to propound said paper writing as
and for the last will of decedent, and an order was passed by
the court below authorizing this to be done. Thereafter a decree was passed framing issues upon the caveat to be tried by
a jury. The issues were five in number and were as follows:
"1. Was the paper writing dated April 27, 1898, the last will
and testament of said Loraine Lipphard?
"2. Was the said writing executed and attested in due form,
as required by law?
"3. At the time of the execution of said paper writing, was
the said Loraine Lipphard of sound and disposing mind and
capable of making a valid deed or contract?
"4. Was said writing procured by fraud or undue influence,
practiced upon her by any person or persons?
"5. Was the signature of tl~e said Loraine Lipphard procured
by force exercised upon her by any person or persons?"
Barnard, J., presiding.at the trial of the issues, directed the
jury to find the third, fourth and fifth issues in favor of the caveatees, on the ground that the evidence was insufficient to
warrant the jury in finding a verdict thereon in favor of the
caveators. The first and second issues were submitted to the
jury with instructions by the court to the. effect that unless
the jury believed that the contents of the paper were known
to testatrix at the time of execution, they should find for the
caveators. If, however, they should find from the evidence
that testatrix did know the contents of the paper and did sign
the same by her mark in the presence of witnesses, who signed
the same as witnesses in her presence, the verdict should be in
favor of the caveatees. The jury found the issues in favor of
the caveatees, and the will was accordingly admitted to probate
and record May 3, 1906.
From this decree the -caveators appealed to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, which affirmed the decree
of the Supreme Court of the District (28 App. D. C. 355), and
thereupon the case was brought to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

209 U. S.

The paper writing in controversy was witnessed by three
credible witnesses, all of whom testified as witnesses for the
caveatees. From their testimony it appeared that on the
twenty-seventh day of April, 1898, Mrs. Loraine Lipphard
brought the writing to the office of Miss Parker, one of the attesting witnesses, with whom she had long been acquainted,
and told her that it was her last will and testament, and that
she wanted it attested by three witnesses., Two other witnesses
with whom she was also acquainted, one of them for forty
years, were procured, and all three being present, testatrix
declared the paper writing to be her will and signed it by her
mark thereto in the presence of all, the witnesses, and they
signed their names thereto as attesting witnesses in her presence. The testatrix was at the time of sound mind and capable
of making a valid deed or will. The will was not read in the
presence of the witnesses, and After the testatrix had subscribed her "mark" and the will had been witnessed, it was
handed to her and she took it away with her. After Mrs.
Lipphard's death the will was produced by Rev. Mr. Meador
and given by him to jn attorney, who lodged it in the office of
the register of wills.
Evidence was adduced on the trial on behalf of the caveators
that Mrs. Lipphard could not read or write; that she was a
licensed midwife and had a great number of cases; that the
title to the real estate devised by the will was originally in her
husband; that in March, 1857, he put a trust on the property,
and it was subsequently sold thereunder; that he afterward
took title to the property and again it was sold, and then the
title was taken in the wife's name. The husband's testimony
tended to show that he was improvident. Testatrix was an
energetic woman and a good wife. Part of the property when
purchased was vacant land. In 1894 this land was improved
by two. houses. Testatrix made the contract for the erection
of these houses and attended to the building of the.same. The
husband and wife had lived happily together for sixty-five
years.

LIPPHARD v. HUMPHREY.
209 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error and Appellawits.

The will devised and bequeathed the entire estate of the
testatrix to the Rev. Chastain C Meador in trust: (1) To pay
all funeral expenses and debts; (2) Por the use of her husband,
Adolph F. Lipphard, during his life; (3) To pay the expenses of
said husband's last illness and funeral; (4) Upon the. death of
the-husband to divide the same among children named, according to the directions therein contained; the trustee also being
appointed executor. The real estate consisted of three lots,
two of which were specifically devised to the two daughters.
I

Mr. Chapin Brown, with whom Mr. Charles H. Bauman and
Mr. J. P. Earnest were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error and
appellants:
When once the foundation has been laid by proving that the
alleged testator was illiterate, and could not read or write or sign
his name, or that it was doubtful from any other cause whether
he knew the contents of the will, the declarations of the alleged
testator are admissible in evidence to show whether he knew or
did not know, the contents and provisions of the alleged will.
Harleston v. Corbett, 12 Rich. (S. C.) 604; Watterson v. Watterson, 38 Tennessee (1 Head), 1; Cox v. Cox, 4 Sneed (Tenn.), 81;
Rollwagen v. Rollwagen, 63 N. Y. 504; Selden v. Myers, 20 HOW.
506; Adams v. Norris, 23 How. 353; Jarman on Wills, 6th ed.,
Vol. 1, p. 47; Underhill on the Law of Wills, Vol. 1, p. 201.
The evidence which the caveators offered. to produce tending to show that the alleged testatrix did not know the contents of the*instrument alleged to be her will, is competent and
should have been admitted. Waterman v. Whitney, 11 N. Y.
157; Barbour v. Moore, 4 App. D. C. 535; Olmstead v. Webb,
5 App. D. C. 30; Adams v. Norris, 23 How. 353; Thompson v.
Updegraf/, 3 W. Va. 629 (cited in the Holt case); Couch v.
Eastman*27 W. Va. 796 (cited in the Holt case); Cranmer v.
Anderson, 11 W. Va. 582; Jarretts v. Jarretts, 11 W. Va. 584;
Mathews v. Warner, 4 Ves. 186; Pemberton v. Pemberton, 13
Ves. 290; Norris v. Sheppard, 20 Pa. St. 275; Neel v. Potter,
40 Pa. St. 283; Storrett v. Douglass, 2 Yeates, 46; Trumbull v.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion or the Court.

209 U. S.

Gibbons, 2 Zab. 140; Crispell v. Dubois, 4 Barb. 399; Stewart's
Exr's v. Lispenard, 26 Wend. 261; Throckmorion v. Holt, 180
U. S. 552, discussed and distinguished from the case at bar.
Mr. B. F. Leighton and Mr. C. Clinton James for defendants
in error and appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention of appellant is that as testatrix could not
read, and as the will was not read to her at the time of its
execution, it was therefore to be presumed that she did not
know the contents of the will when she executed it, or that
the jury ought not to have been allowed to presume from the
evidence produced before them that the testatrix had knowledge of the contents of the will.
Mrs. Lipphard brought the will with her to the office of one
of the attesting witnesses for the purpose of execution, and
after its execution took it away with her, and at her death it
appeared in. the possession of the Rev. Mr. Meador, the executor named therein, and by whom it was propounded for probate and record. She declared to the witnesses that it was her
will, and requested them to attest it as such; and its provisions
were reasonable and natural. She was shown to be a woman
of intelligence and business capacity; she was in bodily and
mental health and vigor when the instrument was executed;
and there was no suggestion of fraud or undue influence in
the case.
In these circumstances the jury properly, concluded that
the testatrix knew the contents of the will at the time of its
execution, and the court might well have directed such finding, unless the bare fact of the inability of testatrix to read
raised a legal, presumption that she did not possess that knowledge, and the absence of the reading of the will to her at that
time was fatal. But we know of no such presumption as mat-

LIPPHARD v. HUMPHREY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ter of law, and on the contrary, the presumption where a will
is properly signed and executed is that the testator knows
the oontents. Where there is evidence of the practice of fraud
or of undue influence, affirmative proof of knowledge of the
contents may be necessary, but not so in any other case,
simply because of a presumption arising from inability to read.
Taylor v. Creswell, 45 Maryland, 422, 431; Vernon v. Kirk,
30 Pa. St. 224; King v. Kinsey, 74 N. C. 261; Hoshauer v.
Hoshauer, 26 Pa. St. 404; Clifton v. Murray, 7 Georgia, 565;
Doran v. Mullen, 78 Illinois, 342; Walton v. Kendick, 122
MissQuri, 504; Nickerson v. Buck, 12 Cush. 341; Guthrie v.
Price, 23 Arkansas, 407.
In the latter case testatrix's name was subscribed to the
will, and between her Christian and surname was her mark
in the form of a cross. The attesting witnesses signed the will
at her request, in her presence, and in the presence of each
other. She produced the paper writing for them to attest and
declared that it was her will, and that she desired them to
witness it as such. She did not write her name, but made her
mark to the paper. It was not shown who did write her name
to the will. It was not written by either of the witnesses, nor
in their presence. Testatrix could not read, and the will was
not read to her in the presence of or to the knowledge of the
witnesses. The trial court instructed the jury, in effect, that
notwithstanding the will was executed in accordance with the
formalities prescribed by the statute, yet it being shown that
the testatrix could not read, the will was invalid, unless it was
-proved that it was read to her and that she was informed as
to its contents. After a review of the authorities, the Supreme
Court of Arkansas held such instruction to be erroneous, and
Chief Justice English, in the concluding part of his opinion,
said:
"It was proven that she could not read, and it was not
shown that the will was read to her at the time it was executed,
but it may have been before. She produced the will herself,
declared it to be her will, asked the witnesses to attest it as

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

such, signed it by making her mark. She was a woman of
good sense, particular about her business transactions, and
manifested her usual soundness of mind at the time. It is
not shown that she was laboring under any feebleness of mind
from disease, or approaching dissolution. The provisions of
her will appear to be reasonable. It is not shown that any
imposition was practiced upon her, or that her sons, had any
agency in the preparation of the will. It was erroneous for
the court to tell the jury as a matter of law that it being shown
that she could not read, it was necessary to prove that the
will was read to her. They had the right to infer, from all of
the circumstances, that she knew the contents of the will,
though, as shown by the authorities above quoted, in determining whether there was fraud or imposition in the execution
of the will, the fact that she could not read, and that the will
was not read to her, at the time she signed it, were circumstances to be considered by the jury."
True, the presumption that a party signing a will by mark,
or otherwise, knows its contents, is not a conclusive presumption, but it must prevail in the absence of proof of fraud, undue influence, or want of testamentary capacity attending the
execution of the will. In the present case there was no attempt to show that the testatrix was not capable of making a
valid deed or contract at the date of making the will; on the
contrary, the evidence showed that she was a Woman of energy,
capacity and intelligence. Nor was any proof offered of fraud
or undue influence in the production of the will. Mrs. Lipphard brought the will, as we have said, to Miss Parker's office
for the purpose of having it executed; she declared to the attesting witnesses the paper to which she made her mark to be
her last will and testament. She was a person of sound mind
at the date of the will, and it was executed and attested in
the manner required by statute.
It is obvious that the verdict of the jury ought not to be
disturbed and a new trial allowed, unless some reversible error
was committed in the course of the trial, and appellants insist

LIPPHARD v. HUMPHREY.
209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that such error existed in the exclusion of evidence of declarations alleged to have been made by the testatrix prior and
subsequent to the date of her will as to how she intended to
dispose, or had disposed, of her property.
Decedent's husband testified that his wife talked to him
often, prior.to theodate of the will, as to what she intended to
do with her property after her death, and that they talked
the matter over after the date of the will. He was asked what
she said, but objection to the question was sustained. Appellants did not state what they expected to prove by the husband.
Albert R. Humphrey, another witness, testified that he had
a conversation with Mrs. Lipphard about two years before
she died. He was asked the following questions:
"Did she tell you how she had left her property, or how she
was goihg to leave it? A. Yes, sir.
"What did she say to you in reference to that matter?"
To which caveatees objected, and the court sustained the
objection. Counsel for appellants stated that he desired to
show by this witness that testatrix denied leaving the property as mentioned in the will, this being more than three years
after the will was executed.
William A. Lpphard, one of the caveatees, was asked a
similar question, and, upon objection, the court made a like
ruling, excluding the evidence. He said that he had a conversation with her in reference to her will just before her death;
that she told him how she had left her property.
Mrs. Sarah Lipphard, the wife of one of the caveatees, testified that eight or ten weeks before decedent died she asked her
if she had made a will, and then she was asked the following
question:
"What did she say in reference to what was in her will and
what she had done with her property, if anything?"
On objection by the caveatees the evidence was 'excluded.
Counsel for caveators stated to the court that he desired to
show by this witness that testatrix had denied to the witness

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

that she had left her property as and in the manner stated in
the will.
. Appellants' brief asserts that the offer was made in support
of the issue of want of mental capacity in the testatrix at the
time she made her will.
In Stevens v. Vancleve, 4 Wash. C- C.262, 265; S. C., 23 Fed.
Cases, 35, Mr. Justice Washington said that declarations of a
deceased, prior or subsequent to the execution of a will, were
nothing more than hearsay, and that there was nothing more
dangerous than their admission, either to control the construction of the instrument or to support or destroy its validity.
. In Throckmorton v. Holt, 180 U. S. 573, Mr. Justice Peckham,
speaking for the court, expressed the opinion, after much
consideration, that the principles upon which our law of evidence is founded necessitated the exclusion of such evidence,
both before and after the execution, saying:
"The declarations are purely hearsay, being merely unsworn declarations, and when no part.of the res gestox are not
within any of the recognized exceptions admitting evidence
of that kind.
"Although in some of the cases the remark is made that
declarations are admissible which tend to show the state of
the affections of the deceased as a mental condition, yet they
are generally stated in cases where the mental capacity of the
deceased is the subject of the inquiry, and in those cases his
declarations on that subject are just as likely to aid in answering the question as to mental capacity as those upon any other
subject. But if the matter in issue be not the mental capacity
of the deceased, then such unsworn declarations, as indicative
of the state of his affections, are no more admissible than
would be his unsworn declarations as to any other fact.
"When such an issue (one of mental capacity) is made it
is one which relates to a state of mind which was involuntary,
and over which the deceased had not the control of the sane
individual, and his declarations are admitted, not as any evi-

LIPPHARD v. HUMPHREY.
.209 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dence of their truth, but only because he made them, and that
is an original fact from which, among others, light is sought
to be reflected dpon the main issue of testamentary'capacity.
"It is quite apparent, therefore, that declarations of the
deceased are properly received upon the question of a state
of mind, whether mentally strong and capable, or weak and
incapable, and that from all the testimony, including his declarations, his mental capacity can probably be determined
with considerable accuracy."
And see In re Kennedy, 167 N. Y. 163, 176. In Shailer v.
Bumstead, 99 Massachusetts, 123, it was ruled:
"Where a foundation is laid by evidence tending to show a
previous state of mind, and its continued existence past the,
time of the execution of the will is attempted to be proved by
subsequent conduct and declarations, such declarations are
admissible, provided they are significant of a condition sufficiently permanent, and are made so near the time as to afford
a reasonable inference that such was the state at the time in
question."
In the present case no foundation was laid for the admission
of this evidence. Not a syllable of testimony was adduced
by appellants to'-show want of testamentary capacity at the
date of the will. For aught the record shows, she retained
her mental powers up to the time of her death, which took
place five years and eight months after making her will.
As we have said, appellants did not state what they.. expected to prove by decedent's husband, nor what they expected to prove by the evidence of William A. Lipphard. This
witness testified on cross-examination that he did not know
his mother had made a will until after her death. In his direct examination he stated that she told him, in a conversation had with her a week before she died, how she had disposed
of her property by her will.
And so the offer to prove by Albert R. Humphrey, that
the testatrix two years prior to hcr death, and more than
VOL. ccIx-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

209 U. S.

three years after the execution of the will, denied giving her
property, as provided by her will, or the-similar offer made
with respect to the witness Mrs. Sarah Lipphard, wife of Adolph
Lipphard, as to alleged conversations with decedent eight or
ten weeks before her death, were at a period too remote to
throw any light upon the mental condition of the testatrix
at the time the will was made.
There was no evidence whatever of mental incapacity and
this particular evidence was too remote to justify any reasonable inference to that effect, and if there was no lack of mental
capacity, then this evidence would have no tendency to show
that she did not have knowledge of the contents of the will
when she executed it and declared it to be her last will and
testament. Because she may have resisted importunity for
information in respect to what she had done, three years after
she had made het will, it does not follow that she did not know
the contents of the will when she made it. There must be
some other proof, some suspicious circumstances, some evidence of fraud or undue influence before evidence of conversations years after the execution of the will should be admitted
to show that she did not know what she was doing when she
made it.
Decree affirmed.

