OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

the process for service has done his duty and has made the reasonable and diligent search for the defendant that is required.
Such presumption is not alone sufficient in the absence of all
proof of other facts, but when such other facts as appear in this
case are sworn to, it may add some weight to them as a presumption in favor of the performance of official duty.
Within this rule the proof in this case was enough to give
jurisdiction to the judge who granted the order to decide the
question.
We have not overlooked the other objections made by the
appellant relating to the invalidity of the decree, but we do not
regard it necessary to notice them further than to say that we
think they are not well founded.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

NEW ORLEANS DEBENTURE REDEMPTION COMPANY v. LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 129.

Argued December 13, 14, 1900. -Decided

February 25, 1901.

For the purpose of procuring a decree enjoining a corporation from acting
as such on the ground of the nullity of its organization, it is not necessary that the individual corporators or officers of the company be made
defendants, and process be served upon them as such; but the State by
which the corporate authority was granted is the proper party to bring
such an action through its proper officer, and it is well brought when
brought against the corporation alone.

The State has the right to determine, through its courts, whether the conditions upon which a charter was granted to a corporation have been
complied with.

THis is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana, brought for the purpose of reviewing a judgment of
that court affirming a judgment of the Civil District Court for
the parish of Orleans, decreeing the charter of the corporation
plaintiff in error, under color of which it claimed corporate

NEW ORLEANS DEBENTURE &c. CO. v. LOUISIANA. 321
Statement of the Case.

existence, to be null, void and of no effect. The suit was in
the nature of a quo warranto. The attorney general of Louisiana, pursuant to statute, filed a petition in the trial court against
the New Orleans Debenture Redemption Company of Louisiana, Limited, as sole defendant, and in that petition alleged
that the defendant was not organized for any purpose for which
the law authorized the formation of corporations in the State
of Louisiana; that it was a debenture company formed for the
sole purpose of selling or borrowing money upon its own obligations or debentures, to be paid for in monthly instalments, the
company binding itself to pay the holders of debentures a profit
of fifty per cent upon the amount invested. A description of
the manner in which the business was to be conducted was
given in the petition, and it was alleged that the whole system
amounted to a mere gambling venture, demoralizing as such,
and was unlawful. It is also alleged that the company in its
modes of organization had not complied with the requirements
prescribed for corporations of any of the classes authorized by
law, and that the act (No. 36 of the Laws of 1888), under which
it claimed to have been incorporated did not authorize the business which the company was doing. It was also alleged that the
company and its officers, agents, managers, directors and stockholders were unlawfully exercising a corporate franchise, and
were acting as a corporation in the State without having been
legally incorporated, and in violation of law, and that the public interest and common justice required that the company be
enjoined from declaring forfeited or lapsed the rights of any
debenture holder who did not continue paying his monthly instalments during the pendency of the suit, and the prayer was
that the affairs of the company be liquidated according to law
under the direction of the court for the common benefit of all
creditors and other persons interested according to their respective rights. The attorney general further prayed that if it
should be held that the organization of the company was authorized by law, that then the charter be forfeited on account
of the subsequent violation of law by the company in not
insisting upon cash in payment for its shares of stock. A
preliminary injunction was asked and granted, enjoining the
VOL. CLXXX-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

defendant from forfeiting or declaring lapsed the rights of any
debenture holder during the pendency of the suit. This preliminary injunction was, upon an order to show cause, subsequently dissolved.
Process was served upon the president of the company in accordance with its charter. The defendant appeared and filed
"peremptory exceptions to the petition, founded on law," which
were overruled by the court. The defendant thereupon answered denying the material allegations in the complaint, and
alleging that it was a duly and legally constituted private corporation, organized in conformity with the laws of the State,
and expressly authorized by act No. 36 of the Laws of the year
1888, for the pursuit of the private enterprise and purposes set
forth in its charter, and that stock had been issued to the extent
of $50,000 and paid for to it, and that in doing business it had
made many legal contracts which were outstanding, and that
its debenture holders wished the company to keep on doing
business, and it denied any gambling or wagering feature in
connection with its contracts.
By supplemental answer it alleged that the purpose of the
suit was to deprive the defendant, a duly and legally organized
corporation under the laws of the State, of the legal right to
engage in or pursue its business in any manner, and that the suit
as instituted and prosecuted had for its object one which was
in violation of the constitution of the State of Louisiana and of
the Constitution and laws of the United States, in that it deprived the defendant of its property without due process of law,
and denied to it the equal protection of the laws of the State of
Louisiana and of the United States, and that it violated the laws
of the United States in that the purpose of the suit was to deprive the defendant of its lawful right to pursue a lawful business, and was an unlawful discrimination against the defendant
and a denial to it of the equal protection of the laws in the pursuit of its business.
The parties went to trial and evidence was given in support
of the petition as to the character of the business, and also that
the stock which had been issued by the defendant to shareholders had not in fact been paid for in cash as required by the

NEW ORLEANS DEBENTURE &c. CO. v. LOUISIANA. 323
Statement of the Case.

statute. The charter was put in evidence, from which, together
with testimony taken in the case, it appeared that in all probability the company would be unable to perform its contracts
with those who remained debenture holders until the maturity of
their debentures, without the benefit which the company was
to receive from lapses and forfeitures on the part of other debenture holders, resulting in a forfeiture to the company of all
prior payments made by such holders. Ability to pay was even
then claimed to be a matter of great doubt. It was stated by
the trial court that with fair management and in the five years
of its existence the company had more liabilities than assets.
Much evidence was given on the trial of the case for the purpose
of showing the general character of the business transacted by
the company, and that it was, as alleged in the petition, of a
gambling nature, and hence against the public policy of the
State, and illegal.
There was no contradictory evidence on the trial regarding
the facts as to the manner and plan of conducting the business
of the defendant. Whether that business as thus conducted by
it as a corporation and under its charter was or was not illegal,
became a simple question of law. The trial judge held in favor
of the State, deciding that the business done by the defendant
was an unlawful business, not permitted to be pursued by any
corporation, and that defendant was illegally doing business as
a corporation, and decreed that the pretended charter under
color of which the defendant claimed corporate existence was
null and of no effect. A decree was thereupon entered adjudging that the president, secretary and general manager, as also
the agents, directors, stockholders and members of the so-called
corporation, were and had ever been without legal authority to
act in a corporate capacity in the name of the defendant or
under color of its pretended charter. It was also decreed that
the injunction theretofore issued prohibiting and restraining the
company, its officers, directors, agents and representatives, from
removing the assets and funds of the company from the State
or beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and from receiving any
money or instalments from its debenture holders, and from paying out any money on surrenders or withdrawals, or in redemp-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

tion of debentures, and from making loans on and from forfeiting any of said debentures, or the rights of any of the holders
thereof, should be and was thereby confirmed and made absolute, and the company and its officers, representatives and
members wereperpetually enjoined and restrained from acting
in a corporate capacity.
A motion for a new trial was made and the constitutional objections again advanced, but the motion was denied.
After the entry of the final decree and the denial of the motion for a new trial, one August M. Benedict, a resident of the
parish of Orleans, presented his petition to the trial court, in
which he alleged that he had been appointed by the Governor
of the State the liquidator of the defendant, after the Governor
had been officially informed of the judgment rendered by the
court, and lie asked to be recognized as such liquidator. The
trial court upon the presentation of the petition, with the annexed commission of the Governor, made an order recognizing
Benedict as liquidator upon his taking oath and furnishing bond
in the sum of $ 10,000 ; the court further ordered that the officers
of the defendant transfer and turn over to the liquidator all
the assets, books and other property of whatever nature or kind
belonging to the defendant corporation. The liquidator duly
filed his bond, which was approved, and letters were granted
him by the judge of the trial court. Thereupon the defendant
corporation prayed for a suspensive and devolutive appeal to
the Supreme Court, which was granted. Upon the same day
a petition under the Louisiana practice was duly presented by
the individual stockholders and the board of directors of the
company to the court for leave to intervene in the suit, and in
the petition they alleged the giving of judgment in the case
against the company, which was the sole defendant therein, and
that none of the individual incorporators or other persons interested were ever in any manner made parties to the suit, and
that the sole issue in the suit was in regard to the legality of
the business done by the company and the legality and validity
of the charter adopted and executed by the corporators, and
they represented that the right to be a corporation or the right
to legal existence as such was not a franchise of the corpora-

NEW ORLEANS DEBENTURE &c. CO. v. LOUISIANA. 325
Counsel for Parties.
tion itself, but belonged to the corporators solely and exclusively. The petitioners further represented that they and each
of them felt aggrieved by the judgment and by the injunction
which had been issued and by the order for the appointment
of a liquidator, and the order for the transfer of the property to
his possession, all of which they alleged had been highly prejudicial to their legal rights, and they therefore asked to intervene
in the cause for the purpose of taking and prosecuting an appeal,
devolutive and suspensive, from the final judgment, and from
all orders, decrees or proceedings had in the cause, including the
order and proceedings under the writ of injunction therein ordered or issued, and including all orders, decrees and proceedings made or had therein for the appointment of a receiver or
liquidator for said company, to the end that on said appeal they
might be enabled to be heard and to obtain a reversal of all
such proceedings.
Service of the petition was made on the attorney general,
who accepted the same, waived citation, and acquiesced in the
order granting the petitioners leave as asked for. Thereupon
the directors and stockholders duly appealed to the Supreme
Court from the final judgment and also from the various orders
in regard to the liquidator. All of these appeals were heard
in the Supreme Court and the decree of the court below was
affirmed, but the separate appeal taken by the shareholders
from the order recognizing Benedict as liquidator under the
Governor's appointment was sustained, reserving to the State
of Louisiana and all other parties in interest the question
whether the appointment of a liquidator lies with the Governor,
or of a receiver with the court, or with the parties in interest;
such question to be thereafter determined by the court below
as an open question. The company and the stockholders sued
out writs of error to bring up the final decree of the state court
for review.
ir. J. F. Pierson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank E ]?ainold for defendant in error. Mr. Walter
Guon and Mir. iXilton J. Cunningham were on his brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PrEcKHAM, after stating the foregoing facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought against the defendant corporation
alone, to obtain, among other things, a decree enjoining the
company and its officers from acting as a corporation on the
ground that its alleged charter was a nullity. It was also
brought to forfeit the charter in case it should be held that it
had been legally organized, and such forfeiture was prayed on
the ground that the company had violated the law by not receiving cash on payment of its shares.
It is now claimed that the company defendant could not properly have been made a sole defendant in an action to declare
null its charter to be a corporation, and that therefore a decree
in such suit declaring the company not to be a corporation
(while making no decree upon the question of a violation of
the charter by not taking payment for its stock in cash) condemns the corporators and takes away their property without
a hearing from them and is not due process of law, they claiming that the franchise to be a corporation was their property
exclusively and did not belong to the corporation as such.
It is also asserted that the State was not rightfully or properly a plaintiff in the suit, and that the institution of the suit
in the name of the State was without authority of law and was
therefore null and void, and did not constitute due process of
law. What is meant by this latter claim is stated by the plaintiff in error as follows:
"We do not wish to be understood as dissenting from the
doctrine of the plenary power of the State over the subjectmatter of creating or authorizing such corporations, and we
concede that her power to grant or withhold charters, as well
as to grant or withhold authority to others, to constitute such
corporations is unlimited. What we here insist is, that where
the State has acted through her legislature and authorized the
organization of the corporation, and such corporation has been
constituted under her authority, that, in common with other
persons, it cannot, after its creation, be denied the common
right to pursue any lawful business or enterprise not inconsist-

NEW ORLEANS DEBENTURE &c. CO. v. LOUISIANA. 327
Opinion of the Court.

ent with the objects and purposes of its creation; and that is
precisely what the State is attempting by this suit to do in relation to the company, plaintiff in error, in this cause."
The first inquiry which presents itself is as to whether it was
proper and legal to make the company alone a defendant, and
as to the sufficiency of the means by which it was brought into
court in an action where the relief sought was to declare the
pretended charter of the company a nullity from the beginning,
and where an injunction was sought to prevent the further
action of the defendant corporation.
The company claimed as a fact to be organized under the act
No. 36 of the Laws of Louisiana of 1888. The first and third
sections of the act read as follows:
"SEc. 1. That it shall be lawful for any number of persons,
not less than three, upon complying with the provisions of the
laws of this State governing corporations in general, to form
themselves into and constitute a corporation for the purpose of
carrying on any lawful business or enterprise, not otherwise
specially provided for, and not inconsistent with the constitution
and laws of this State,

.

.

.

provided, no such corporation

shall engage in stock jobbing of any kind."
"SEc. 3. That no stockholder of such corporation shall ever
be held liable or responsible for the contracts or defaults of such
corporations in any further sum than the unpaid balance due to
the company on the shares owned by him."
In the answer of the company it is alleged that it was organized by the authority of this statute and that it duly filed its
articles of association, stating therein at large the character of
its business. It was provided in that charter that all legal process should be served upon the president of the company. The
evidence showed that the company in fact did business under
its charter and amendments for several years as a corporation,
and claimed to be legally organized as such. It also appeared
from the evidence that its stock was subscribed for by various
individuals, and was issued to such subscribers or their assigns.
It also issued its debentures and did business in accordance with
the charter, and, as claimed, under and by the authority of the
act of the legislature above mentioned. It made contracts and

OCTOBER TRiRVM,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

it elected officers who thereafter acted as such and assumed to
represent the company as a corporation doing business under
the laws of the State. It was thus a de facto corporation, and
those who contracted with it as such could not set up as a defence, when sued by it upon those contracts, that it was not a
corporation or that its organization was a nullity. None but
the State could call its existence in question. Chubb v. Upton,
95 U. S. 665 ; Baltimore & Potomac RailroadCompany v. Fifth
Baptist Church, 137 U. S. 568, 571. The Supreme Court of
Louisiana, in this case, holds that by the laws of that State the
defendant as a de facto corporation was properly brought into
court by the service of process on its acting president. The
State can therefore treat this de facto corporation as such, for
the purpose of calling it into court and asking for a decree
enjoining it from acting as a corporation, on the ground of the
nullity of the organization; in other words, on the ground that
it has no right to be a corporation, and that it is not a corporation de jure. For that purpose it is not necessary that the individuals who were corporators or officers of the company be
made defendants and service of process be made upon them.
The company itself may be brought into court by service upon
its officer appointed pursuant to the charter under which it
assumed to act, and in which it is provided that the president
shall be served with process against the corporation.
Section 2593, Revised Statutes of Louisiana, provides:
"An action by petition may be brought before the proper
district court or parish court by the district attorney or district
attorney pro tempore, and for the parish of Orleans by the attorney general, or any other person interested, in the name of
the State upon his own information, or upon the information
of any private party, against the party or parties offending in
the following cases:
"First, when any person shall usurp, intrude into or unlawfully hold or exercise any public office or franchise within this
State; or . . . Third, when any association or number of
persons shall act within this State as a corporation without being duly incorporated."

NEW ORLEANS DEiBENTURE &c. CO. v. LOUISIANA. 329
Opinion of the Court.

"Sic. 2595. Service shall be made in such cases . . . the
same as in other civil suits.
" SEc. 2602. When defendant, whether a person or corporation against whom such action shall have been brought, shall
be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into or unlawfully
holding or exercising any office, franchise or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from
such office, franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintiff recover costs against such defendant and such damages as are
proven to have been sustained."
The state court has held that under these provisions, in such
a case as this, the service of process upon the defendant company is sufficient to bring that company into court as a defacto
corporation, even though not legally organized. If the company actually appear pursuant to such service, it surely must
be enough so far as the corporation is concerned.
Pursuant to the service of process upon its president the company appeared in court, put in pleadings, set up as a defence
that it was a legal and valid corporation under the act already
cited, and claimed judgment in its favor. All this gave jurisdiction to the court to proceed with the case and try the issues,
whether the defendant were or were not a valid corporation.
But it is said that in such suit even that question cannot be
decided, and that the presence of the individual corporators is
indispensable because, as is stated, the franchise, to be a corporation, belongs to them and not to the corporation itself, and
the case of Memphis & Little Rock Railroad Company v. Railroad Comm issioners, 112 U. S. 609, 619, is cited as authority
for the purpose of showing that such franchise cannot be taken
away without making the corporators parties.
In a certain sense the franchise to be a corporation does belong to the corporators in so far as that it does not pass by a
mortgage by the company of its charter and franchises, and a
sale under the foreclosure of the mortgage does not confer on
the purchaser the right to be a corporation. This was held in
above case. The right to be a corporation was conferred upon
certain individuals, and the court held could not by the language
used pass to purchasers on a foreclosure, the franchise not in

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

fact having been mortgaged, and the law not providing for such
a mortgage. But a proceeding by the State against a de facto
corporation to forbid its acting any longer as such on the ground
that no legal right exists for it to be a corporation, we have no
doubt is well brought against the company alone, treating it as
such defacto corporation, and serving process upon its officers
in accordance with the charter or law under which it assumes
to be acting as such corporation. And as we remark, in another
connection below, the shareholders or corporators by their action in making themselves parties to the suit, appealing from
the decree and arguing their objections before the Supreme
Court, have cured any possible defect which might otherwise
have existed, founded upon an alleged defect of parties.
The injunction which was issued as part of the judgment was
simply a means of carrying out what the court decreed, and
whether an injunction prior thereto and preliminary in its nature had been granted ex _parte or not was immaterial. The
final injunction was part of the relief sought by the action, and
when the court decided such action in favor of the plaintiff the
injunction was to follow as matter of course. We are of opinion that for the purpose of obtaining a decree declaring the charter void and restraining the officers from acting as a corporation,
the State through its attorney general was a proper party to
bring the action, and for the reasons stated it was well brought
against the corporation alone and the final injunction was properly issued.
Nor do the facts in this case furnish any foundation for the
claim on the part of the plaintiffs in error that the State
after having granted the right to be a corporation could not,
after the corporation was created, deny to it the common right
to pursue any lawful business or enterprise not inconsistent with
the object and purposes of its creation. The claim rests upon
the proposition that the State cannot deny to the company the
common right to pursue any lawful business or enterprise. If
the business or enterprise be not lawful, the whole argument
fails. If not created for a lawful purpose the company was not
created at all. It is not a question of the right to do certain
business after it was authorized by the State to organize as such

NEW ORLEANS DEBENTURE &c. CO. v. LOUISIANA. 331
Opinion of the Court.

corporation. Its legal creation depended upon the lawful character of the work it was organized to do. Whether the business be lawful is, in a case like this, a question of local law, and
a decision by the state court upon that question is not reviewable here. The right to be a corporation was given by the State
upon the terms that the business transacted should be lawful,
and it certainly must rest with the State to determine whether
the business thus transacted by a corporation is or is not lawful. Whether such business could be done by individuals without the intervention of a corporation is not to the point. The
State having the right to say upon what terms and upon what
conditions it will grant the right of incorporation, it must have
the right to determine through its courts whether those conditions have been complied with. It granted the right by the
act of 1888 to transact any lawful business, as a corporation,
upon filing articles, etc. It rests with its own courts to say
whether the business transacted by such assumed corporation,
by virtue of that act, is or is not lawful. Having decided that
it was unlawful, the court had the right, under the state law,
to declare the charter null.
Then as to the rights of the individual corporators. Has
their property been in any way taken without due process of
law by this decree ? Clearly it has not. Nor have they been
denied the equal protection of the laws. As already stated,
the decree adjudges the charter, under color of which the defendant company claimed corporate existence, to be null and
void, and it enjoins the officers and stockholders from acting as
a corporation, in the terms already set forth. This simply holds
the property until it can be properly disposed of according to
law.
The original decree was entered after a trial upon the merits,
and the record shows that the officers and many of the stockholders were present at the trial, and were witnesses and examined by the counsel for the company, and that in truth they
made the whole defence. There was no dispute in regard to
the facts, and the whole question was resolved into one of law,
whether the business which was confessedly conducted by the
corporation was or was not a lawful one under the laws of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Louisiana. The court refused to hear evidence that the defendant's officers acted in good faith, believing they were acting
lawfully. That also was a question of local law, whether such
facts constituted any defence, and the decision of the court on
that subject is not reviewable here. As a result of all the
evidence, the trial court held the business transacted by the
company was unlawful for a corporation under the laws of
Louisiana, and decreed accordingly. The shareholders then,
pursuant to the law of Louisiana, petitioned the court to permit
them to intervene in the case and to appeal from the decree,
because they were interested therein ; and leave being given,
they appealed to and were heard in the Supreme Court, and
that court, while affirming the final decree, at the same time
reversed the order appointing a liquidator, and left the whole
question open in regard to such appointment. The corporators
have not in any manner been impeded or embarrassed in the
presentation of their defence by not being formal parties to the
record at the trial in the court of first instance. Many were
present, as a matter of fact, and the defence which they interpose is one of law upon undisputed facts. There has been no
taking of any property belonging to shareholders, and whatever
may be (lone hereafter, whether by liquidator or receiver, can
only be done upon notice to them, as parties to the action and
after full hearing of their claims.
It is certain, therefore, that their rights have not been imiproperly interfered with or their property taken under or pursuant to the decree of the trial court. We are of opinion that
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana must be
Affhned.

