OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

there was any evidence upon which such findings could be
made. Hathaway v. National Bank, 134 U. S. 498; St. Louis
v. Petz, 138 U. S. 241; Runkle v. Burnhiam, 153 U. S. 225.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals in its statement
that "the facts stated in the findings were evidentiary only,
and instead of being conclusive of publicity, tended rather to
show intentional concealment; that they were certainly sufficient, even if we were required to look into the evidence, to
support the finding of the ultimate fact." 60 U. S. App. 248.
Applying, then, the settled law of Illinois to the facts as
found, the conclusion reached by the Circuit Court, and affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the sale was void as
against the attaching creditors, must be accepted by this court.
This conclusion disposes of the case, and renders a consideration of the other questions presented by the findings unnecessary.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Ajflrmed.

LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AND GLOBE INSURANCE
COMPANY v. KEARNEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIR cUIT.

No. 85.

Submitted November 7, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

The plaintiff in error insured the defendants in error against loss by fire by
two policies, one dated in June, 1894, the other in February, 1895, each
of which contained the following provision: " The assured under this
policy hereby covenants and agrees to keep a set of books showing a complete record of business transacted, including all purchases and sales,
both for cash and credit, together with the last inventory of said business; and further covenants and agroes to keep such books and inventory
securely locked in a fireproof safe at night, and at all times when the
store mentioned in the within policy is not actually open for business, or
in some secure place not exposed to a fire which would destroy the house

where such business is carried on; and, in case of loss, the assured agrees
and covenants to produce such books and inventdry, and in the event 0f

LIVERPOOL &c. INSURANCE CO. v. KEARNEY.

133

Counsel for Parties.
the failure to produce the same, this policy shall be deemed null and void,
and no suit or action at law shall be maintained thereon for any such loss."
On the night of April 18, 1895, between the hours of one and three A. M.,
fire accidentally broke out in a livery stable in the town of Ardmore,
which was about three hundred yards distant from the plaintiffs' place
of business. Efforts to arrest the progress of tie conflagration failed,
and when it had approached so near to the plaintiffs' place of business
that the windows of their store were cracking from the heat and the building was about to take fire, one of the plaintiffs ettered the buildiug for
the purpose of removing the books of the firm to a safer place, thinking
that it would be better to remove them than to take the chances of their
being destroyed by fire. He opened an iron safe in the store in which
they had been deposited for the night, which was called a fireproof safe,
and took them therefrom and to his residence some distance away. The
books consisted of a ledger, a cash book, a day book or blotter, and a
small paper-covered book containing an inventory that the finr had taken
of their stock on or about January 1, 1895. In the hurry and confusion
incident to the removal of the books, the inventory was either left in the
safe and was destroyed, or was otherwise lost, and could not be produced
after the fire. The other books, however, were saved, and were exhibited
to the insurer after the fire and were subsequently produced as exhibits
on the trial. There was neither plea nor proof that the loss of the inventory was due to fraud or bad faith on the part of the plaintiffs or either
of them. An action for the amount of the loss was brought by the insured against the insurance company, on the trial of which the jury gave
a verdict in the plaintiffs' favor, on which judgment was entered, which
judgment was sustained by the Circuit Court of Appeals. fHeld:
(1) That it was not intended by the parties that the policy should become void unless the fireproof safe was one that was absolutely
sufficient against every fire that might occur; but that it was sufficient if the safe was such as was commonly used, and such as, in
the judgment of prudent men in the locality of the property insured, was sufficient:
(2) That if the plaintiffs had the right, under the terms of the policy,
as undoubtedly they had, to remove their books and inventory from
the safe to some secure place, not exposed to a fire which might
destroy the building in which they carried on business, it was
never contemplated that they should lose the benefit of the policies if, in so removing their books and inventory, the same were
lost or destroyed, they using such care on the occasion, as a prudent man, acting in good faith, would exercise.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

JJr.E. S. Quiton for plaintiff in error.
Xr.A. C. Cruce and M21.

W. 1 Cruce for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought to recover the amount alleged to be
due on two policies of fire insurance issued by the Liverpool and
London and Globe Insurance Company-one dated June 15,
1894, for $2500 and the other dated February 11, 1895, for $1000
-each policy covering such losses as might be sustained by the
insured, Kearney & Wyse, in consequence of the destruction by
fire of their stock of hardware in the town of Ardmore, Indian
Territory.
Each policy contained the following clause, called the ironsafe clause: "The assured under this policy hereby covenants
and agrees to keep a set of books, showing a complete record of
business transacted, including all purchases and sales, both for
cash and credit, together with the last inventory of said business; and further covenants and agrees to keep such books and
inventory securely locked in a fireproof safe at night, and at all
times when the store mentioned in the within policy is not
actually open for business, or in some secure place not exposed
to a fire which would destroy the house where such business is
carried on; and, in case of loss, the assured agrees and covenants to produce such books and inventory, and in the event of
the failure to produce the same, this policy shall be deemed
null and void, and no suit or action at law shall be maintained
thereon for any such loss."
The insurance company insisted in its defence that the terms
and conditions contained in this clause of the policies had not
been kept and performed by the insured.
There was a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiffs
in the United States Court for the Southern District of the
Indian Territory, and that judgment was affirmed in the United
States Court of Appeals for that Territory.
The insurance company sued out a writ of error to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and that
court affirmed the judgment. 94 Fed. Rep. 314.
The controlling facts are thus (and we think correctly) stated
in the opinion of Judge Thayer, speaking for the court below:
"On the night of April 18, 1895, between the hours of one and

LIVERPOOL &c. INSURANCE CO. v. KEARNEY.

135

Opinion of the Court.

three A. M., a fire accidentally broke out in a livery stable in the
town of Ardmore, which was about three hundred yards distant from the plaintiffs' place of business. Efforts to arrest the
progress of the conflagration failed, and when it had approached
so near to the plaintiffs' place of business that the windows of
their store were cracking from the heat and the building was
about to take fire, one of the plaintiffs entered the building for
the purpose of removing the books of the firm to a safer place,
thinking that it would be better to remove them than to take
the chances of their being destroyed by fire. He opened an
iron safe in the store, in which they had been deposited for the
night, which was called a fireproof safe, and took them therefrom, and to his residence, some distance away. The books
consisted of a ledger, a cash book, a day book or blotter, and a
small paper-covered book containing an inventory that the firm
had taken of their stock on or about January 1, 1895. In the
hurry and confusion incident to the removal of the books, the
inventory was either left in the safe and was destroyed, or was
otherwise lost, and could not be produced after the fire. The
other books, however, were saved, and were exhibited to the
insurer after the fire, and were subsequently produced as exhibits
on the trial. There was neither plea nor proof that the loss of
the inventory was due to fraud or bad faith on the part of plaintiffs, or either of them. The trial judge charged the jury that
the set of books which bad been kept and which were produced
on the trial ' were substantially in compliance with the terms
of the policy upon that subject,' and no exception was taken by
the defendant to this part of the charge."
It was also said in the same opinion: "The books, though
used at the trial as exhibits, do not form a part of the record.
For these reasons no question arises as to the sufficiency of the
set of books that was kept which we are called upon to consider.
It must be taken for granted that it was a proper set of books,
as the trial court held. The only substantial ground for complaint seems to be that the inventory was not produced."
The argument in behalf of the defendant assumes that the
insurance company is entitled to a literal interpretation of the
words of the policies. But the rules established for the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

struction of written instruments apply to contracts of insurance
equally with other contracts. It was well said by Nelson, C. J.,
in Tarley v. Nort. American FireInsurance Co., 25 Wend. 374,
377, referring to a condition of a policy of insurance requiring
the insured, if damage by fire was sustained, to produce a certificate under the hand and seal of the magistrate or notary
public most contiguous to the place of the fire setting forth
certain facts in regard to the fire and the insured, that "this
clause of the contract of insurance is to receive a reasonable
interpretation; its intent and substance, as derived from the
language used, should be regarded. There is no more reason
for claiming a strict literal compliance with its terms than in
ordinary contracts. Full legal effect should always be given
to it for the purpose of guarding the company against fraud or
imposition. Beyond this, we would be sacrificing substance to
form-following words rather than ideas."
To the general rule there is an apparent exception in the case
of contracts of insurance, namely, that where a policy of insurance is so framed as to leave room for two constructions, the
words used should be interpreted most strongly against the
insurer. This exception rests upon the ground that the company's attorneys, officers or agents prepared the policy, and it
is its language that must be interpreted. National Bank v.
Insurance Co., 95 IT. S. 673, 678-9; JXoulor v. American Life
Ins. Co., 111 U. S. 335, 341.
Turning now to the words of the policies in suit, what is the
better and more reasonable interpretation of those provisions
so far as they relate to the issues in this case? The covenant
and agreement "to keep a set of books, showing a complete
record of business transacted, including all purchases and sales,
both for cash and credit, together with the last inventory of
said business," should not be interpreted to mean such books as
would be kept by an expert bookkeeper or accountant in a large
business house in a great city. That provision is satisfied if the
books kept were such as would fairly show, to a man of ordinary intelligence, "all purchases and sales, both for cash and
credit." There is no reason to suppose that the books of the
plaintiff did not meet such a requirement.

LIVERPOOL &c. INSURANCE CO. v. KEARNEY.

137

Opinion of the Court.

That of which the company most complains is that the insured did not produce the last inventory of their business, and
removed the books and inventory from the fireproof safe in
which they had been placed the night of the fire. It will be
observed that the insured had the right to keep the books and
inventory either in a fireproof safe or in some secure place not
exposed to a fire that would destroy the house in which their
business was conducted. But was it intended by the parties
that the policy should become void unless the fireproof safe
was one that was absolutely sufficient against every fire that
might occur? We think not. If the safe was such as was commonly used, and such as, in the judgment of prudent men in
the locality of the property insured, was sufficient, that was
enough within the fair meaning of the words of the policy. It
cannot be supposed that more was intended. If the company
contemplated the use of a safe perfect in all respects and capable of withstanding any fire however extensive and fierce, it
should have used words expressing that thought.
Nor do the words "or in some secure place not exposed to a
fire which would destroy the house where such business is carried on" necessarily mean that the place must be absolutely
secure against any fire that would destroy such house. If, in
selecting a place in which to keep their books and last inventory, the insured acted in good faith and with such care as
prudent men ought to exercise under like circumstances, it
could not be reasonably said that the terms of the policy relating to that matter were violated. Indeed, upon the facts stated,
the plaintiffs were under a duty to the insurance company to
remove their books and inventory from the iron safe, and
thereby avoid the possibility of their being destroyed in the
fire that was sweeping towards their store, provided the circumstances reasonably indicated that such a course on their
part would more certainly protect the books and inventory
from destruction than to allow them to remain in the safe. If
they believed, from the circumstances, that the books and inventory would be destroyed by the fire if left in the safe, and,
if, under such circumstances, they had not removed them to
some other place and the books or inventory had been burned

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

while in the safe, the company might well have claimed that
the inability of the insured to produce the books and inventory
was the result of design or negligence, and precluded any recovery upon the policies. We are of opinion that the failure
to produce the books and inventory, referred to in the policy,
means a failure to produce them if they are in existence when
called for, or if they have been lost or destroyed by the fault,
negligence or design of the insured. Under any other interpretation of the policies, the insured could not recover if the books
and inventory had been stolen, or had been destroyed in some
other manner than by fire, although they had been placed "in
some secure place not exposed to a fire" that would reach the
store. If the plaintiffs had the right, under the terms of the
policy, as undoubtedly they had, to remove their books and
inventory from the safe to some secure place not exposed to a
fire which might destroy the building in which they carried on
business, surely it was never contemplated that they should
lose the benefit of the policies if, in so removing their books
and inventory, they were lost or destroyed, they using such
care on the occasion as a prudent man, acting in good faith,
would exercise. A literal interpretation of the contracts of
insurance might sustain a contrary view, but the law does not
require such an interpretation. In so holding the court does
not make for the parties a contract which they did not make
for themselves. It only interprets the contract so as to do no
violence to the words used and yet to meet the ends of justice.
We perceive no error in the view taken by the court below;
and having noticed the only questions that need to be examined, its judgment is
Affirmed.

