POWERS v. SLAGHT.
Statement of the Case.

POWERS v. SLAGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 47. Argued and submitted October 15, 16,

is9e.-

Decided January 7, 1901.

For reasons stated in Hewitt v. Schultz, ante 139, the court holds, in conformity with the long established practice in the Land Department, that
the order of withdrawal of lands within the indemnity limits of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company is inconsistent with the true construction
of the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217.

THIS action was commenced in one of the courts of the State
of Washington by the present plaintiffs in error. They alleged
in their second amended complaint that on or about Deceinber 15, 1883, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, under
and by virtue of the act of Congress approved July 2, 1864, 13
Stat. 365, c. 217, granting lands to aid in the construction of a
railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound
on the Pacific coast, and the various acts and joint resolutions
of Congress supplemental thereto and amendatory thereof, applied at the United States district land office in the district in
which the lands were situated to select and selected lots 10, 11,
14 and 15 in section 1, township 16 north of range 45 east, Willamette meridian, Washington, with other lands, as indemnity
in lieu of lands within the place limits of the grant to the company and which had been reserved, sold, granted or otherwise
appropriated, or to which preemption or other claims or rights
had attached at the date when the line of the company coterminous therewith was definitely fixed by filing a plat thereof
in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Officea list of the lancis selected, prepared in the manner and form
prescribed by the rules and regulations of the Interior Department, being filed by the company in the district land office, and
tender and payment made to the receiver thereof of the fees
required by law to be paid upon the selection of lands. The
list was allowed and approved by the register and receiver on
December 17, 1883, the fees accepted, and thereafter the list

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

was transmitted to the Commissioner of the General Land Office for approval. These lands were selected as public land
to which the United States had full title, not reserved, sold,
granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from pre~mption
or other claims or rights, except such reservation, appropriation, claim and rights as had attached thereto in favor of the
railroad company.
On October 26, 1887, the railroad company, in compliance
with other and additional instructions of the officers of the Interior Department issued and given after the above selection
had, as stated, been accepted, allowed and approved, filed a list
designating the losses in lieu of which the lands described in
the selection list were selected; and thereafter, in the years 1892
and 1893, the company, in compliance with instructions issued
by the officers of the Interior Department subsequently to the
acceptance, allowance and approval of the selection, re-arranged
the list of losses and the selection list so that the losses for which
each tract of land selected by the company had been taken
should be specifically designated. It appeared from the re-arranged list that the lands in question were selected in lieu of
certain lands included in section 7, township 9 north of range 15
east, Willamette meridian, Washington, which last-described
land was located coterminous with and within forty miles of
the line of the company as definitely fixed, and was at the date
of the grant to the company, and at the date when its line
coterminous therewith was definitely fixed, included in a reservation of the land set apart for the Yakima Indians.
On or about December 24, 1885, after the selection of the
above-described land, the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
entered into a contract in writing with the plaintiff William L.
Powers to convey to him lots 3, 6, 11 and 14 in section 1, township 16 north of range 45 east, upon the payment by him to
the company of the sum of $822; and on August 4, 1887, payment having been made, the company conveyed the lots to him.
On July 30, 1887, the company conveyed to Powers lots 2, 7,
10 and 15 in that section.
In the year 1877 A. M. Dufflield settled upon lots 2, 3, 6, 7,
10, 11, 14 and 15 in the section in question. Shortly thereafter

POWERS v. SLAGHT.
Statement of the Case.

he sold and assigned his possessory rights and improvements to
L.M. Rhodes, and thereafter, Rhodes having failed to make
payment therefor, the property was assigned to the plaintiff
Powers, who settled thereon in 1881 with the expectation and
intention of purchasing the lands or a portion thereof from the
railroad company. Soon after such settlement Powers offered
to purchase lots 2, 7, 10 and 15 from the company, and at the
same time John G. Powers, a brother of the plaintiff, offered
to purchase lots 3, 6, 11 and 14 from the company. Thereafter,
as above stated, the plaintiff William L. Powers purchased the
lands from the railroad company, having prior thereto taken a
relinquishment from his brother of all interest in and to lots 2,
7,10 and 15.
On or about March 1, 1883, the defendant Slaght rented and
leased lot 10 of the plaintiff Powers, and received and took
possession of the same. Ile paid rental therefor, as agreed,
from the date upon which he took possession of the premises
until the 31st day of October, 1887.
On the last-named day Slaght presented an application at the
United States district land office for the district in which the
land was situated, to enter lots 10, 11, 14 and 15 as public lands

of the United States, under the act of Congress approved May 20,
1862, 12 Stat. 392, c. 75, entitled "An act to secure homesteads
to actual settlers on the public domain," alleging in his application that he had settled and established his actual residence
upon those lands March 4, 1883, that such residence had been
thereafter continuous, and that he had built a house on the
land and improved the same. In the complaint in this case
the plaintiffs averred that the settlement, occupation and improvement by Slaght were under and in pursuance of the renting and leasing of and from Powers, as above set forth, and not
otherwise.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company having been notified
of the application of Slaght to enter the land, filed its objections against the allowance thereof on or about December 2,
1887. A hearing was ordered by the United States district
land officers for the district in which the land was situate to
determine the rights thereto of the railroad company and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Slaght, and such proceedings were had in the contest that the
district land officers, in July, 1889, held the land to be excepted
from the operation of the selection of the railroad company by
reason of the settlement of the plaintiff Powers, and that the
defendant Slaght had settled upon the land as the tenant of
Powers.
The railroad company appealed from the decision of the district land officers to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office. On April 13, 1895, the Commissioner rendered the following decision, directed to the register and receiver of the district land office at Walla Walla: "I have considered the contest
of Jacob Slaght v. orXwhern Pacific RailroadCompany and William I. Powers, Intervenor, involving lots 10, 11, 14, 15, sec. 1,
T. 16 iN., R. 45 east, the record in which was transmitted with
your letter of July 10, 1889, on appeal by Jacob Slaght and
said railroad company from your decision in favor of William
L. Powers, intervenor. The land is within the limits of the
withdrawal upon the line of the amended general route of said
road, the map showing which was filed February 21, 1872, and
upon the definite location of the road it fell within the indemnity limits, the order for the withdrawal of which was received
at the local office November 30, 1880. These withdrawals have
been held by the department to be without authority of law and
of no effect. 17 L. D. 8, and 18 L. D. 87. On December 17,
1883, the company selected the land in question under the act
of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, per list No. 1, and on the same
day said company selected the land under acts of July 2, 1864,
13 Stat. 365, and May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 376 for indemnity purposes per amendatory list No. 2. On October 31, 1887, Jacob
Slaght presented an application to make homestead entry for
this land and alleged that he settled and established his actual
residence thereon March 4, 1883, and the sare has been continuous; that he built a house 12X 14 feet, a kitchen 1×OX 12 feet,
a stable, dug a cellar and broke a garden spot, and built a half
mile of fence, and that his improvements are worth about $275.
The company was duly notified of said application and filed its
objections against the acceptance of the same December 2, 1887.
Upon the issuance of notice to the parties in interest a hearing

POWERS v. SLAGHT.
Statement of the Case.

in the case was had and concluded April 4, 1889, at which all
parties were represented. The testimony adduced at the hearing on behalf of Slaght shows that he established his actual
residence on the land in March, 1883 ; that he broke and planted
a garden; that within a few days after moving in the log house
on the land he built an addition thereto; that in September,
1883, he built a house 12X 14 feet, a kitchen, a stable, a chicken
house, dug a cellar, and fenced about eighty acres; that his residence on the above-described tracts of land has been continuous
since March 1, 1883, and that his improvements are worth $400,
and that he is a qualified settler."
After stating the substance of the evidence adduced, the Commissioner proceeded: "Therefore, in view of this showing, your
decision in favor of William L. Powers is hereby reversed, likewise your decision adverse to Jacob Slaght. Your opinion
that said company's selection as to this land was improperly
allowed, and that the company had no right to the land prior
to its selection, and as the same was occupied and improved as
the home of a settler, Slaght's, at the date of selection, that
such selection as to the land in question should be cancelled,
was in accordance with the uniform practice of the department, and I concur therein. Accordingly, said amendatory
list No. 2 of selections of Dec. 17th, 1883, by said company
is hereby held for cancellation as to said lots 10, 11, 14 and 15,
sec. 1, twp. 16 N., R. 45 E. The usual time, sixty days after
notice, will be allowed the railroad company and William L.
Powers within which to appeal to the honorable Secretary of
the Interior. Should this decision become final, Slaght will be
permitted to make homestead entry for this land. You will
advise him of this action."
From the decision of the Commissioner the Northern Pacific
IRailroad Company appealed to the Secretary of the Interior,
who, in 1896, affirmed the action of the Commissioner.
In 1897 Slaght received from the Interior Department letters
patent of the United States conveying to him lots 10, 11, 14
and 15.
The plaintiffs averred that the letters patent were issued to
Slaght under a misconstruction and misinterpretation of the
VOL. CLXXX-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

law; that long prior to the settlement upon the land by Slaght
the lands and each and all of them had been reserved for the
use and benefit of the railroad company; that the plaintiff
Powers had settled upon the lands with the intention of purchasing them from the company; that the lands were subject
to selection by the company, and by its selection thereof it acquired the title in and to the same; that at the time Slaght
applied to enter the land, and at the date of the hearings in
the contest above referred to, and at the date of the issuing of
the letters patent to him, the land was not, nor was it at any
of those times, public land subject to settlement or entry under
the land laws of the United States other than the act of Congress approved July 2, 1864, above referred to, granting lands
to the railroad company; and that the officers of the Interior
Department were without authority to issue letters patent purporting to convey the land to Slaght, because the United States
had long prior to the issuing of those letters parted with the
title to the railroad company.
The complaint stated that the other of the above named plaintiffs in this cause asserted and claimed title to certain portions
of the lands in dispute under and by virtue of conveyances from
Powers and his grantees.
It was also averred that the plaintiff Powers had conveyed
to various parties, with warranty to defend the title thereof,
certain other portions of the land; that the questions involved
and to be determined in this action were of common and general interest to many persons, who were so numerous that it
was impracticable to bring them into court; that the plaintiffs
and such other persons were the owners in fee-simple and had
an indefeasible title and were in possession of the lots named,
and the defendant claimed an interest or estate therein adverse
to the plaintiffs, but that defendant had no estate, right, title
or interest whatever in the same or to any part thereof; that
the defendant was threatening to commence divers suits in
ejectment, and without suit forcibly to dispossess and eject
plaintiffs and the other numerous parties of and from the premises or a portion thereof, and unless restrained by an order of
court would bring such suits, and would also without suit forci-

POWERS v. SLAGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

bly enter the premises and without any right whatever eject
and dispossess them; and that thereby a multiplicity of suits
would be caused and great costs and injuries inflicted upon
them, the courts of the State greatly and unnecessarily burdened,
and great and irreparable injury wrought to the other parties
having common and general interest in the question involved
in the cause.
The plaintiff therefore prayed (among other things) that the
letters patent issued to Slaght be declared to have been issued
under a misconstruction of the law and to be void and to constitute clouds upon the titles of the plaintiffs and of the various
persons to whom the plaintiff Powers had conveyed any portion of the land in dispute; that Slaght be decreed to be a trustee
holding such right, title and interest in and to those lands as
he acquired under and by virtue of such letters patent, if any,
for the benefit of the plaintiff Powers and his grantees, both
direct and through mesne conveyances, and that Slaght be required to convey such right, title and interest, if any, to the
plaintiff Powers and his grantees. The plaintiffs also prayed
for such other and further relief as was equitable and just.
A demurrer to the amended complaint was sustained and the
plaintiffs electing not to plead further, the action was dismissed.
The judgment of dismissal was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State of Washington upon the authority of the decision
of that court in Moore v. Cormode, 20 Wash. 305, 712, just decided upon appeal to this court.
.Mr. C. W. Bunn and Mr. James
error.

. Kerr for plaintiffs in

Mr. U. I. E tenger, Mr. Charles 1. Wyman and Mr. Thomas
Neill, for defendant in error, submitted on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The issue as to the validity of the order of withdrawal made
by direction of the Secretary of the Interior of lands within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

indemnity limits of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, as
indicated by the company's accepted map of definite location,
presents the controlling question in this case. Unless such order
be sustained as a valid exercise of power by that officer, there
is no ground upon which a decree could be rendered against
Slaght.
For the reasons stated in Hewitt v. Schultz, just decided, we
hold, in conformity with the long-established practice in the
Land Department, that that order of withdrawal must be regarded as inconsistent with the true construction of the act of
Congress of July 2, 1864. The judgment of the Supreme Court
of Washington is, accordingly,
Ajfirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE concurred in the result.
MR. JUSTI E BREWER and

MR. JUSTIcE SHIRAS dissented.

MOORE v. STONE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No 48. Argued October 15, 16, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

Hewitt v. Schultz, ante, 139, again followed.

ON the 12th day of December, 1883, the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company selected the northeast quarter of section 3,
in township 13 north of range 42 east, Willamette meridian, in
Garfield County, Washington, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, as indemnity in lieu of other lands. In
making the selection it filed in the district land office at Walla
Walla a list showing the tract selected, at the same time tendering to the officers of the district land office the fees required
by law. The tract was selected as public land, to which the
United States had full title, not reserved, sold, granted or other-

