YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI RD CO. v. ADAMS.
Syllabus.

constituent companies. The same questions are presented by
the record and the same result must follow.
Still another case (No. 79) is brought by the Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railway Company, consolidated October 21,
1892, with the Louisville, New Orleans and Texas Company,
whereby all the property and franchises formerly belonging to
the Natchez, Jackson and Columbus Company were transferred
to and became the property of the plaintiff, including which were
the contract rights of the Natchez Company under section 21
of the Mobile and Northwestern charter. This suit was brought
to enjoin the collection of taxes for the year 1898 upon the property originally belonging to the Natchez and Louisville Companies. As the plaintiff was a citizen of Mississippi no question
of the diversity of citizenship arose, and jurisdiction was not
claimed upon that ground. The questions are otherwise identical with those presented in the former cases, and a similar result must follow.
The decrees of the Circuit Court dismissing the bills in these
cases for the want ofjurisdictwon must therefore be reversed,
and the cases remanded to that courtfo forrtherproceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMPANY v.
ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 80. Submitted October 22, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

A writ of error to the Supreme Court of a State cannot be sustained when
the only question involved is the construction of a charter or contract,
although it appear that there were statutes subsequent to such charter
which might have been, but were not, relied upon as raising a Federal
question concerning the construction of the contract. If the sole question be whether the Supreme Court has properly intcrpreted the contract,
and there be no question of subsequent legislative impairment, there is
no Federal question to be answered. The court is not bound to search

the statutes to find one which can be construed as impairing the obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
tion of the charter, when no such statute is set up in the pleadings or in
the opinion of the court.
Such omission cannot be supplied by the certificate of the Chief Justice
that, upon the argument of the case, the validity of the subsequent legislation was drawn in question, upon the ground of its repugnancy to the
Constitution of the United States.

THIs was an action begun in the circuit court of Hinds
County, Mississippi, by Adams, as state revenue agent, suing for
the use and benefit of certain cities and towns through which
the defendant railway runs, to recover municipal taxes upon its
property for the years 1893 to 1896, inclusive.
A demurrer to the declaration having been sustained upon
the ground that the exemption claimed by defendant in its
charter was perpetual and unconditional as to the municipal
taxes, an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court which reversed
the action of the circuit court, and remanded the case for a new
trial. 75 Mississippi, 275. An amended declaration having been
filed claiming taxes from 1886 to 1897 inclusive, defendant interposed pleas (1) of the general issue; (2) that defendant was
organized under an act of February 17, 1882, containing the
following provision in section 8 : "That in order to encourage
the investment of capital in the works which said company is
hereby authorized to construct and maintain, and to make certain in advance of such investment, and as an inducement and
consideration therefor, the taxes and burdens which this State
will and will not impose thereon, it is hereby declared that said
company, its stock, its railroads and appurtenances, and all its
property in this State, necessary or incident to the full exercise
of all the powers herein granted-not to include compresses and
oil mills-shall be exempt from taxation for a term of twenty
years from the completion of said railroad to the Mississippi
PRiver, but not to extend beyond 25 years from the date of the
approval of this act; and when the period of exemption herein
prescribed shall have expired, the property of said railroad may
be taxed at the same rate as other property in this State. All
of said taxes to which the property of said company may be
subject in this State, whether for county or State, shall be collected by the treasurer of this State and paid into the state

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI R'D CO. v. ADAMS.
Counsel for Appellant.

treasury, to be dealt with as the legislature may direct; but said
company shall be exempt from taxation by cities and towns -"
that the railroad was completed to the Mississippi River, October 25, 1892, by a consolidation with the Louisville, New Orleans
and Texas Railway Company, which had constructed and was
then the owner of certain branches which reached the Mississippi River at several different points; (3) that after the company was organized, but before its line was finally located and
constructed, the municipal authorities of the city of Jackson
adopted an ordinance releasing the road from all city taxation
for twenty years from date, provided it selected Jackson for its
southeastern terminus, and provided further that the work on
said road be commenced within one year and be completed
within three years to Yazoo City; and that such ordinance was
accepted and complied with by the defendant; (4) that, prior
to the assessment of these taxes, defendant leased its road to the
Illinois Central for a term of fifty years, which, until the bringing of this suit held and operated such road under such lease;
that by its terms the Illinois Central agreed to pay and discharge all taxes assessed upon the defendant company; that
under defendant's charter it was exempted from all municipal
taxation; that the right of the legislature to make such exemption had been judicially recognized in the case of Mississippi
Jills v. Cook, 56 Mississippi, 40, and that such exemption entered
into and constituted a part of the aforesaid lease, and of the
charter contract between the defendant and the State; and that
" the said exemption,-by said charter conferred, has never been
repealed by the legislature of said State," but that during the four
years named the legislature refused to pass bills introduced to
repeal such exemption.
A new trial resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court. 76 Mississippi, 545. Hence
this writ of error.
Xr. Willian A. Guthrie and Xr. Edward X-ayes for appellants. Mr.Noel Gale, fr. James Fentress and 5Xr. J. X.
-Dickinsonwere on their brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. F. A. Critz and Ar. Marcellus Green for appellees.
Mr. R. C. Beckett was on their brief.
MR. JUSTIcF, BuowN, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

Motion was made to dismiss for the want of a Federal question. The ground of the motion is that, while the second and
fourth pleas set up the exemption contained in the charter from
all municipal taxation, and the third pleads the exemption from
city taxation by the ordinance of the mayor and aldermen of
the city of Jackson, and inferentially at least, that these constitute a contract under which the road was built, there is not
only no averment that this contract had been impaired by subsequent legislation, but no discussion of the case in that aspect
by the Supreme Court, which held that under a proper construction of the charter the railroad company is not entitled to
an exemption from municipal taxation, because the road had
never been completed to the Mississippi River. There was undoubtedly legislation both before and subsequent to the charter
of this company, February 17, 1882, authorizing municipalities
to impose taxes, but no allusion to them is made either in the
pleadings, proofs or in the opinion of the Supreme Court.
The case then resolves itself into this: whether jurisdiction
can be sustained when the only question involved is the construction of a charter or contract, althougk it appear that there
were statutes subsequent thereto which might have been, but
were not, relied upon as raising a Federal question concerning
the construction of the contract. There is no doubt of the
general proposition that, where a contract is alleged to have

been impaired by subsequent legislation, this court will put its
own construction upon the contract, though it may differ from
that of the Supreme Court of the State. The authorities upon
this point are very numerous, but they all belong to a class of
cases in which it was averred that, properly construed, the contract was impaired by subsequent legislation; but, if the sole
question be whether the Supreme Court has properly interpreted the contract, and there be no question of subsequent

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI R'D CO. v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

legislative impairment, there is no Federal question to be answered. Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388.
To sustain our jurisdiction under the second clause of Rev.
Stat. see. 709, relied upon here, there must be drawn in question
the validity of a state statute upon the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the United States; but
of what state statute is the validity attacked in this case?
None is pointed out in the record; none set up in the pleas;
none mentioned in the opinion of the court. In fact, in the
fourth plea it is expressly averred that "the exemption by said
charter conferred has never been repealed by the legislature of
the State;" and we are only asked to infer that certain statutes describing in detail methods of municipal taxation did in
fact impair the obligation of the chartered contract. But are
we bound to search the statutes of Mississippi to find one
which can be construed as impairing the obligation of the charter? It is true that, in the first assignment of error in this
court, it is averred that the Supreme Court of the State erred
in rendering its judgment, whereby the tax provisions of the
Annotated Code of 1892, providing for the office of revenue
agent, and chapter 34 of the Laws of 1894, defining the powers
of that office, " were given effect against the contract rights of
the plaintiffs in error," contrary to the contract clause of the
Constitution; but no mention is made of this in the assignments
of error filed in the Supreme Court of the State, which were
of the most general description, and no allusion is made to the
Code of 1892 or of the act of 1894 in the opinion of the court.
There is a laxity of pleading, in failing to set up the subsequent law impairing the obligation of the contract, which ought
not be encouraged. Granting that, as the case arose under the
second clause of Rev. Stat. see. 709, the invalidity of the statute need not be "specially set up and claimed," it must appear
under the most liberal construction of that section that it was
necessarily involved, and must indirectly, at least, have been
passed upon in the opinion of the Supreme Court; but, for
aught that appears, the very statutes under which this road
was taxed were in existence before the road was chartered,
although others, prescribing a different method of assessing

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and collecting such taxes, may have been passed subsequent
thereto. This subsequent legislation, however, may have had,
and apparently did have, nothing to do with the disposition of
the case.
Three recent cases in this court are pertinent in this connection. In Central Land Co. v. laidley, 159 U. S. 103, an action
of ejectment was brought by Laidley against the land company
in a court of West Virginia. The case turned upon the defectiveness of a wife's acknowledgment to a deed of land. The
Court of Appeals of Virginia, prior to the organization of the
State of West Virginia, had in several cases held that acknowledgments in this form were sufficient; but the Court of Appeals of West Virginia in this case held it to be insufficient, and
the change of the settled construction of the statute was charged
as an impairment of the contract. This court held that under
the contract clause of the Constitution, not only must the obligation of the contract be impaired, but it must have been impaired
by some act of the legislative power of the State and not by
decisions of the judicial department only. "The appellate jurisdiction of this court," said Mr. Justice Gray, "upon writ of
error to a state court, on the ground that the obligation of a
contract has been impaired, can be invoked only when an act
of the legislature alleged to be repugnant to the Constitution of
the United States has been decided by the state court to be
valid, and not when an act admitted to be valid has been misconstrued by the court. The statute of West Virginia is admitted to have been valid, . . . and it necessarily follows
that the question submitted to and decided by the state court
was one of construction only, and not of validity." It was said
by Mr. Justice Miller in Knox v. Ekekange Bank, 12 Wall. 379,
383: "We are not authorized by the judiciary act to review the
judgments of the state courts because their judgments refuse to
give effect to valid contracts, or because those judgments, in
their effect, impair the obligation of contracts. If we did, every
case decided in a state court could be brought here, where the
party setting up a contract alleged that the court had taken a
different view of its obligation to that which he held."
So also in Turner v. Wilkes County Commisaioners, 173 U. S.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI R'D CO. v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

461, it was said that "this being a writ of error to a state court,
we cannot take jurisdiction under the allegation that a contract
has been impaired by a decision of that court, when it appears
that the state court has done nothing more than construe its
own constitution and statutes existing at the time when the
bonds were issued, there being no subsequent legislation touching the subject." In this case, too, the plaintiff in error sought
to take advantage of a change of judicial construction by the
Supreme Court of the State, which had held that the bonds
were void, because the acts under which they were issued were
not valid laws, not having been passed in the manner directed
by the constitution.
The case of the Yazoo i Mississippi -Valley Railroad Co.
v. Thomas, 132 U. S. 174, is much relied upon by the plaintiff
in error, and is claimed to be full authority for the maintenance
of the writ in this case. This was a bill by the plaintiff in
error in the case under consideration to enjoin a collection of
taxes upon its property. "The illegality complained of was
that the tax was in violation of the company's charter, by
which it was insisted the property of the company incident to
its railroad operations was exempted from taxation; and it was
averred that the charter, as respects the exemption claimed,
was a contract irrevocable, and protected by the contract clause
of the Constitution of the United States; that the unwarranted
application of the general laws subsequently passed, as well as
the application of the general laws in force at the time, is
equivalent to a direct repeal of the charter exemption; that it
is an effectual abrogation of its privilege of exemption by means
of authority exercised under the State." Not only does it
appear from the opinion that the taxes in question were assessed
under an act passed in 1888, subsequent to the charter, but on
reference to the original bill, which we have consulted for that
purpose, we find that this act of April 3, 1888, was specially
set up and pleaded in the bill, and was charged to be a violation of the charter contract, which exempted the orator's road
from taxation, and that such application of said act was the
same as a repeal or revocation of the granted exemption, and
therefore in violation of the Constitution of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

forbidding such violation. In other words, the bill in that case
not only pointed out the exemptions contained in the plaintiff's
charter, but also set up the subsequent statute, which it was
contended impaired the obligation of that contract. The bill
thus contained the allegation which is wanting in this case, and
put it in the power of this court to say whether the contract
set up in the bill had been properly construed by the state
court. This was also the case in Columbia Water Power Co.
v. Columbia Electric Street Railway Co., 172 U. S. 475, and
]McCulloch v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102.
If jurisdiction in this case be sustained, it results that whenever a state court gives a certain construction to a contract, it
is our duty to search the subsequent statutes and to find out
whether there be one which, under a different construction of
the contract, may be held to impair it. We must decline the
obligation. As was said by the Chief Justice in Powell v.
Brunswick County, 150 U. S.433, 440: "If it appear from the
record by clear and necessary intendment that the Federal
question must have been directly involved, so that the state
court could not have given judgment without deciding it, that
will be sufficient; but resort cannot be had to the expedient of
importing into the record the legislation of the State as judicially known to its courts, and holding the validity of such
legislation to have been drawn in question, and a decision
necessarily rendered thereon in arriving at conclusions upon
the matters actually presented and considered." See also Louisville & Naskville Railroad Co. v. Louisville, 166 U. S.709, 715.
It is true that the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court certifies that upon the argument of this case the validity of legislation of the State of Mississippi subsequent to the statute of
February 17, 1882, was drawn in question by the company
upon the ground of its repugnacy to the Constitution of the
United States; but we have repeatedly held that such certificate is insufficient to give us jurisdiction where it does not
appear in the record, and that its office is to make more certain
and specific what is too general and indefinite in the record.
Lawler v. Walker, 14 How. 149; Gross v. United States )Jlortgage Co., 108 U. S.477, It is said in Lawler's case that "the

QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
Statement of the Case.

statutes complained of in this case should have been stated.
Without that the court cannot apply them to the subject-matter
of litigation to determine whether or not they have violated
the Constitution or laws of the United States." See also Railroad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall. 1 7 7 ; Parmeleev. Lawrence, 1t Wall.
36; Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433, and cases
cited.
The writ of error is therefore
Dismis ed.

QUEEN OF THE PACIFIC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 130.

Argued and submitted December 14, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

A stipulation in a bill of lading that all claims against a steamship company, or any of the stockholders of the company, for damage to merchandise, must be presented to the company within thirty days from the date
of the bill of lading, applies, though the suit be in rem, against the steamship carrying the property covered by the bill of lading.
In the view of the facts that the loss occurred the day after the bill of lading was signed, and the shippers were notified of such loss within three
days thereafter, the stipulation was a reasonable one, and a failure to present the claim within the time limited was held a bar to recovery against
the company in personam or against the ship in rem.
The reasonableness of such notice depends upon the length of the voyage,
the time at which the loss occurred, and all the other circumstances of
the case.

THis was a joint libel by the Bancroft-Whitney Company, a
California corporation, and the firm of Hellman, Iaas & Company against the steamship, Queen of the Pacific, owned by
the Pacific Coast Steamship Company, to recover damages to
certain miscellaneous merchandise shipped April 29, 1888, at
San Francisco, to consignees at San Pedro in the State of California.
VOL. CLXXX-4

