OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 21. Argued December 7, 10, 1900.-Decided March 25, 1901.
At the trial of this case before the jury, the main issue was upon the validity of the will of Adjutant General Holt. Tecumseh Sherman, a son of
General Sherman, was called to prove that the signature of his mother as
a witness was genuine. He was not inquired of as to the genuineness of
the signature of his father, because his uncle, Senator Sherman, had testified that that signature was genuine. Subsequently Mr. Randolph testified that he was familiar with the signature of General Sherman, giving
his sources of knowledge, and that he was of opinion, (giving his reasons for it,) that it was not his signature. Tecumseh Sherman was
recalled to prove that the objection found to the signature of his father
was not an unusual feature in his signature, but the court, on objection,
excluded the evidence. Held, that the evidence was competent as rebuttal, and should have been received.
It is the general rule that if evidence which may have been taken in the
course of a trial be withdrawn from the consideration of the jury by the
direction of the presiding judge, such direction cures any error which
may have been committed by its introduction; but there may be instances, (and the present case is one,) where such a strong impression has
been made upon the minds of the jury by illegal and improper testimony,
that its subsequent withdrawal will not remove the effect caused by its
admission, and in that case the general objection may avail on appeal or
writ of error. There may also be a defect in the language of the attempted withdrawal. In such a case, and under the particular facts in
this case, the names of the witnesses should have been given, and the
specific evidence which was given by them, and which was to be withdrawn should have been pointed out.
The opinion of a witness as to the genuineness of the handwriting found
in a paper, based in part upon his knowledge of the character and style
of the composition and the legal and literary attainments of the individual whose handwriting it purports to be, are not competent to go to the
jury upon the question raised in this case.
Declarations, either oral or written, made by a testator, either before or
after the date of an alleged will, unless made near enough to the time of
its execution to become part of the res gestw , are not admissible as evidence in favor of or against the validity of the will.
If not admissible generally, they are inadmissible even as merely corroborative of evidence denying the genuine character of the handwriting.
No presumption of revocation of the will by the testator, or under his di-

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Statement of the Case.
rection, arises from the appearance of this will when first received by
the register of wills. There must be some evidence of an act by the
deceased, or under his direction, sufficient to show the fact, or the instrument must have been found among the papers of the deceased, muti-

lated, torn or defaced, under such circumstances that the revocation
might, be presumed.
As the production of the will in this case created no presumption of revocation, it was necessary to prove that the act of mutilation was performed by him or by his direction, with an intention to revoke, and his

declarations, not being part of the res gestte, cannot be used for that
purpose.

THis was a proceeding in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for the purpose of proving an alleged will of the
late Joseph Holt, a distinguished lawyer and for many years
Judge Advocate General of the United States Army, who died
at the age of eighty-seven, in Washington on August 1, 1894,
after a residence of many years in that city. The proceeding
resulted in the rejection of the paper on the ground that it was
not the will of Judge Holt but was a forged document, and
judgment refusing probate was entered upon the verdict of the
jury. The proponents of the will appealed to the Court of Appeals of the District, but before the appeal was brought on for
argument Miss Hynes, one of the legatees named in the will,
withdrew her appeal. The judgment of the Supreme Court
upon the appeal of the other proponents was subsequently affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and the proponents of the paper,
excepting Miss Hynes, have brought the case here by writ of
error.
The record shows that Judge Holt died leaving no relatives
nearer than nieces and nephews, residents of the States of Indiana, Mississippi and Kentucky, and of the city of Washington,
D. C., all being respondents in this appeal. ie had been twice
married and both wives had died long prior to his own demise.
He had no children by either wife. Immediately upon his death
his nephews, Washington D. Holt and William G. Sterrett, came
to his late residence in Washington, and the keys being delivered to them by one of the servants, a strict search was made
for a will but none was found. While the nephews were in
possession of the house and the search was going on for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

will, papers were burned and destroyed, all of which the nephews
testified were wholly unimportant, and consisted of letters from
relatives of Judge Holt to him, and that no papers destroyed
were of a testamentary character. No will having been found,
the nephews above named, and another, named John W. Holt,
filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, holding a special term for orphans' court business, in which
the fact of intestacy was stated and the appointment of an administrator was asked. Pursuant to the petition and on September 28, 1894, the National Safe Deposit, Savings and Trust
Company of the District was appointed administrator of the
estate, and has continued so to act since that time.
Up to August 26, 1895, nothing out of the ordinary occurred
in the administration of the estate, but on the last mentioned
date a sealed envelope, addressed to the register of wills in Washington was received by that officer, which envelope was postmarked "Washington, D. C., August 24, 6 r. m. 1895, L." The
envelope was opened by the register who found therein a paper
purporting to be a will signed by "J. Iolt," dated February 7,
1873, and on the paper appeared what purported to be the
signatures of Ellen B. E. Sherman, U. S. Grant and W. T. Sherman as witnesses. By this paper Judge Holt gave one half of
his estate to Lizzie Hynes, her real name being Elizabeth Hynes,
and the other half to Josephine Holt Throekmorton.
Lizzie Iynes had been left an orphan in infancy and had been
committed to the care of her uncle, Dr. Harrison, and his daughter, the first Mrs. Holt, and she had taken special charge of
the child up to the time of her own marriage to Judge Holt,
who had promised his wife at the time of their marriage to care
for the child, and Mrs. Holt upon her deathbed asked and received a promise from Judge Holt that he would always take
care of Lizzie, and treat her as if she were his own daughter.
From that time until his death, Judge Holt fully and in all tlings
kept his promise and always supported her, she living most of
the time in Kentucky, though frequently visiting and traveling
with him.
The other beneficiary, Miss Throckmorton, was Judge Iolt's
goddaughter, her mother being the cousin of his second wife, and

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Statement of the Case.

while her father was a young man Judge Holt treated him with
great kindness, and always so treated Miss Throckmorton.
The following is the text in full of the alleged will, with punctuation as in the original:
"In the name of God Amen
"J, Holt, of the City of Washington D. C. being of sound
mind declare this to be my last will & Testament
"I do hereby give devise & bequeathe all of my propertyboth personal & real to Lizzie IHynes-cousin of my first wife & to
Josephine, Holt, Throckmorton-who is my God-child & to their
heirs & assigns forever-I do hereby direct that at my death
all of my property be divided equally between them."Lizzie Hynes is to inherit hers at my death Josephine at
the age of 21, her father Maj. Charles B. Throckmorton will hold
her share in trust"I appoint Mr Luke Devlin of the city of Washington D. C.
whose character I believe to be of the highest standard & who
will I am certain carry out my wishes my executor
" Signed & sealed by me in the presence of these witnesses in
the City of Washington, D. C.
"Feby 7th 1873-J

J.

boLT

"ELLEN B. E. SHERMAN

"U. S. GRANT
"W. T. SHFRMAN"
There was nothing in the envelope addressed to the register
of wills other than this paper. The postmarks on the package
indicated that it had been deposited in one of the many local
mail boxes to be found in the northwest quarter of the city of
Washington, which is quite a large district, running from North
Capitol street on the east to Georgetown on the west, and
bounded on the south by the Mall and north by the boundaries
of the city. When the paper was taken from the envelope it
bore evident signs of mutilation by burning and tearing, and
although the paper recited that it was signed and sealed, there
was no seal on it, and if it ever bad been affixed it had been
torn away. At the time the paper bears date, February 7,
1873, Ellen B. E. Sherman was the wife of W. T. Sherman, who

OCTOBER TER-1M, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

was then the general commanding the army of the United
States, and U. S. Grant was then President. The paper was
torn nearly in two across the page between the signatures of
the testator and that of the first witness. Some of the evidence
tended to show that the tearing was complete, but, as stated
by the court below, the weight of the evidence was that it was
not entirely separated at one end. The burning appeared on
the edges of the paper and at the top, but the body of the instrument was so far intact as to be plainly legible.
Upon the receipt of this paper by the register of wills he communicated with Mr. Luke Devlin, the person named therein as
executor, and after the latter had seen it he communicated with
the parties interested, and on September 20, 1895, filed his petition in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, held
for orphans' court business, for the probate of the paper as the
last will and testament of Joseph Holt, deceased.
The contestants, as next of kin, filed their caveat October 18,
1895, opposing the probate of the paper, to which answer was
made and filed December 2, 1895, by Luke Devlin, the executor,
and by the Misses Hynes and- Throckmorton, the two legatees
named in the paper.
Issues were duly made up in the orphans' court and transferred to the Circuit Court for trial by jury. They are as follows:
"1. Was the paper writing bearing date the seventh day of
February, A. D. 1873, which was filed in this court on the 26th
day of August, A. D. 1895, executed by the said Joseph Holt
as his last will and testament?
"2. Was the execution of said paper writing procured by
fraud exercised and practised upon said Joseph Holt by any
person or persons?
"3. Was the execution of said paper writing procured by the
undue influence of any person or persons?
"14. If the said paper writing was executed by the said Joseph
Holt as his last will and testament, has the same been revoked
by said testator? "
Upon the trial of these issues the proponents of the paper
proved the death of the subscribing witnesses, and gave evi-

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Statement of the Case,

dence in regard to the genuineness of their signatures as well
as of Judge Holt's. Senator John Sherman testified to the
genuineness of the signature of his brother, General Sherman;
Colonel Frederick D. Grant to that of his father, President
Grant, and P. Tecumseh Sherman to that of his mother, Mrs.
Ellen B. E. Sherman. Mr. Henry B. Burnett testified that in
his opinion the body of the will and the signature of the testator were written by Judge Holt; that he became acquainted
with him in 1863; had frequently seen him write and had had
considerable correspondence with him which continued up to
1889, and that he was familiar with his handwriting. After this
evidence was given counsel for proponents offered the paper in
evidence, which was objected to by counsel for the contestants
on the ground that the paper was evidently separated into two
parts ; that it purported to be under seal, and the seal, if it ever
bore one, had been torn away; that it appeared to have been
burned and mutilated, and had been sent to the register of wills
anonymously, and that it was incumbent upon proponents to
explain these circumstances before the will could be read to the
jury. The objection was overruled and the paper read in evidence.
Elizabeth Hynes, one of the legatees and proponents, was
called and testified that the paper writing was never i~n her possession, and she never saw it until it was shown her on the witness stand at the trial.
Miss Throckmorton also testified that she had never had the
paper in her custody and had never seen it until it was shown
her by the register of wills in the latter part of October, 1895,
and that the first she knew of its existence was through a telegram from Mr. Devlin, which she received in New York city,
August 26, 1895; that she had known Luke Devlin when she
was a child but had not seen him since until after the paper was
filed.
Mr. Devlin, the person named as executor in the paper writing, also testified that it was never in his possession, and that
he first saw it in the office of the register of wills on the day it
had been received there. On cross-examination Devlin testified
that he knew Joseph Holt well since 1862, having been a copyist

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and messenger at that time in the office of the Judge Advocate
General when Judge Holt succeeded to that office; that he continued to be employed in that office until 1876, when Judge Holt
retired therefrom; that he had little communication with him
in relation to office matters; that he visited Judge Holt once or
twice at his house; that he was in the habit of meetingr him
socially at the residence of Mrs. Throckmorton, Sr., the grandmother of Miss Josephine H. Throckmorton, from 1865 to 1878;
that he had not seen Mrs. Throckmorton, Sr., more than four
or five times during a period of ten years preceding the receipt
of the will at the register's office, and on learning of the existence of the will he had to consult the city directory to ascertain
where she then lived; that on the day the will reached the
register of wills he received a telephone message from the register, went to his office, and saw the will for the first time. He
called on Mrs. Throckmorton, Sr., and on the same day telegraphed Miss Josephine IT. Throckmorton of the finding of the
will, having first learned her address from her father upon inquiry at the War Department; that he called on several occasions in later years at Judge Iolt's house, and was informed by
the colored servant that he was out or that he was engaged, and
asked witness to call again, the last of these visits being about
April 9, 1894, shortly before his death; that he had met Judge
bolt outside on several occasions, the last of which was about
two years before his death, and conversed with him.
At this point the proponents announced their primafacie
case closed, but opposing counsel objected that it was incumbent upon the proponents to put in all their testimony essential
to the establishment of the alleged will before contestants were
called upon to offer any; whereupon the court ruled that because of the fact that there was no attesting clause to the will,
it was proper and necessary for the proponents to offer all the
evidence they proposed to offer upon the subject of the genuineness of the signature of Joseph Holt to the will, and counsel
for the proponents accepted the ruling as being a matter within
the discretion of the court.
Testimony was then given by Elizabeth Iynes, who stated
that she had corresponded with Judge Holt for forty years,

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Statement of the Case.

and that in her opinion both the body of the will and the signature were in his handwriting. Mr. Devlin testified that he had
had daily opportunity for thirteen years of becoming familiar
with Judge Ifolt's handwriting, and that the signature to the
instrument was undoubtedly in testator's handwriting.
Miss Throckmorton testified that she bad corresponded with
him, and was familiar with his handwriting and knew his signa.
ture, and that both the will and the signature were in the handwriting of Joseph Rolt.
Other witnesses were called, who testified that they were
acquainted with the handwriting of Judge Iolt, and that in
their opinion the body of the paper and the signature were in
his handwriting; after which the proponents rested.
Counsel for the contestants then offered in evidence the deposition of John Judson Barclay, in which the deponent testified
that he knew the testator intimately from 1857 to 1866, and at
intervals thereafter until the time of his death, and that he had
last seen him in November, 1893, when he was in impaired
health and in a darkened room, at which last stated time he
had a conversation with Judge Holt in regard to the disposition
by him of his property and estate. Evidence in regard to this
conversation was duly and fully objected to, and the objection
overruled and an exception taken by the proponents. The
witness then stated the conversation as follows:
"In our conversation he referred most touchingly to my deceased sister, Mrs. Sarah Barclay Johnson, and made many
kind inquiries in regard to my aged mother, who had also been
his warm personal friend for many years. In this connection
he remarked, 'I have made my will and have made provision
for her to receive some pictures,' etc., which my sister had
painted for him, as well as an ambrotype or photograph of
herself, which he highly prized and wished my mother to
possess."
Another witness, Mrs. Briggs, testified under proper objection and exception that she had had a conversation with Judge
Holt relating to wills some time between 1888 and 1891, in
which he told the witness that if she were going to make a
disposition of any piece of her property to do it before she

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

passed away; then she would be sure that it would be done and
be permanent; but, he continued, "in my own case my nephew,
my brother's son, will attend to my affairs, and I know it will
be done all right." Before the conversation ended Judge Holt
had stated that it was his nephew, Washington iolt, and that
he would attend to his affairs, and he knew it would be all
right.
The objection to this testimony was on the ground that, if it
tended to prove anything, it could only mean that there was a
will existing in which Washington Holt was named as executor,
and that if offered for the purpose of proving the contents of
such will its execution could not be proved by mere declarations
of the testator, and also that the legal presumption was that as
the will was not produced or found it had been revoked. If
not revoked it must be produced, and that parol declarations
of this character are inadmissible as a basis for proving revocation. Counsel for the contestants admitted that their claim was
that there was a will existing in which Washington Holt was
executor, but at the same time counsel stated that they wished
it understood that the evidence was also offered both on the
question of forgery and on the question of revocation of the alleged will of 1873. The objections were overruled and the testimony admitted and exceptions duly taken.
Subject to the same objections and exceptions, counsel for the
contestants further gave evidence to the jury tending to prove
that between the years 1884 and 1893 Judge Iolt, on several
occasions, told Washington ID. Holt that he had made him
(Washington Holt) his executor, and on several occasions Judge
Holt informed Mary Iolt and her mother Vanda Holt that they
would be much better off after his death; that they would then
go to Europe, and Mary must become proficient in French so
that while in Europe she could act as their interpreter. Evidence was also given that during the same period Judge Iolt
told the servants of his house on two occasions that Washington
D. Holt would have charge of his affairs after his death.
It was also proved that Judge Htolt was born in or about the
year 1807, in the State of Kentucky, and that until 1856 he
lived there, excepting a few years when he practiced law in

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Statement of the Case.

Mississippi; that he died in the city of Washington in August,
1894, leaving an estate of about $180,000, about $40,000 of
which consisted of real estate in the city of Washington; his
mother died in 1871, previous to the date of the alleged will,
February 7, 1873.
During the war it would appear that there was some bitterness of feeling engendered in Judge Holt's mind by the part
taken by his relatives, most of whom favored the South, and
some of whom entered its military service. Evidence was also
given on the part of contestants tending to prove that Judge
Holt, prior to February 7, 1873, had on several occasions received visits at his house in Washington from some of his nieces
and nephews, and had kindly received them and spoken kindly
of them to others after they had gone.
Letters of his were received in evidence, without objection,
dated prior to February 7, 1873, directed to different relatives
in Kentucky, and tending to show pleasant relations between
them, while letters of a similar nature from him to those relatives, dated subsequently to February 7, 1873, and up to within
a few years prior to his death in 1894, were admitted, but under
an objection and exception as to their competency. Evidence
was also given, subject to similar objections and exceptions, of
declarations of an unfriendly character on the part of Judge
Holt towards the father of Miss Throckmorton, and also towards her grandmother, the evidence tending to show that he
had said some time after the date of February, 1873, that the
Throckmortons were his enemies, and that at a reception given
by President Arthur, Judge Holt had refused to shake hands
with Major Throckmorton, the father of Miss Josephine; also
declarations of his to his servants that he would not see the
Throckmortons, these declarations having been made many
years subsequently to February, 1873.
All of this class of evidence was offered by the contestants
in support of their allegation that the paper was a forgery as
well as upon the issue of revocation.
There was also evidence given on the part of the proponents
tending to show that Miss Throckmorton was a great favorite
of Judge Holt's, and that his feelings of affection for her had
VOL. OLXXX-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

never changed, notwithstanding he may have felt differently
towards her father and grandmother. She was his goddaughter, and she testified (after the evidence above referred to
on the part of contestants) that she frequently visited and
stayed at Judge Holt's house, and in 1892 he told her that he
was an old man, on the brink of his grave, but that he had provided for her, and that she would be perfectly independent, and
that was the last time she ever saw him; that he never spoke
to her at any time otherwise than kindly and with affection.
Letters indicative of interest and affection for the mother of
Miss Throckmorton were put in evidence by proponents, after
evidence of that character had been given by contestants, in
relation to the relatives of Judge IJolt.
Other evidence was given upon the trial not necessary now
to be referred to.
To the question whether the paper filed in court on August 26, 1895, was executed by Joseph Holt as his last will and
testament, the jury answered " No."
To the fourth question, whether, if the paper had been executed by Joseph Holt as his last will and testement, the same
had been revoked by him, the jury answered "No; because it
was not executed."
No evidence having been given in relation to matters referred
to in the second and third questions, the jury by direction of
the court returned a negative answer.
Mr. William G. Joh4nson and Mlr. Calderon Carlisle for
plaintiffs in error. Mr. J. J. Darlington and _Mr. George C.
Fraserwere on their brief.
.Mr.A. S. Worth ington and Mr. . X. Wilson for defendants
in error.
MIR. Jusuicjn PECKIAM, after making the above statement of
facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
Before proceeding to a discussion of the more important questions involved in this case we will refer to two decisions of the

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

trial court upon questions of evidence, in which we think there
was error.
The witness, P. Teeumseh Sherman, had been called by the
proponents of the will for the purpose of proving the signature
of his mother, Mrs. Ellen B. E. Sherman, and had stated that
in his opinion the signature on the paper was genuine. He did
not testify as to the genuineness of the signature of his father,
as Senator John Sherman, the brother of the General, had testified that in his opinion the signature was genuine. Subsequently, when the case was with them, the contestants called
as a witness John B. Randolph, who, after testifying that he
had been employed for more than thirty years in the office of
the Secretary of War, and that he was so employed while General
Sherman had acted as Secretary and also when he had been
General of the Army, testified that he was familiar with the
signature of General Sherman, and had recently rexamined
the signature on the paper in question, and that in his opinion
the signature was not that of General Sherman. Upon crossexamination he was asked his reason for that opinion, and
among others stated that in the genuine signature of General
Sherman in the long quirl on the capital T the upper and lower
lines meet; that he never saw one in which they did not meet,
and he had seen thousands of them. In response to a further
question on cross-examination he said that the upper and lower
lines met at least in four out of five signatures. He also stated
that another reason for his belief that the signature was not
that of the General's was that the S in Sherman differed from
the genuine S in the little stroke at the lower part of that letter where the upward stroke crosses the staff; that it should
not make so much of a loop or so pronounced a loop as in the
paper.
The proponents in rebuttal called as a witness P. Tecumseh
Sherman, who had already been sworn in relation to the handwriting of his mother, and by him they offered to prove that
this failure of the lines to meet in the letter T was by no means
an unusual feature in the signature of his father, General Sherman, and that it was frequently, if not habitually, found therein,
and also that the loops at the bottom of the S,as large as that

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

in the signature to the paper, were also usually found. The
court excluded this evidence on the objection of contestants
that it was not competent as rebuttal.
We think this evidence was competent in that character, and
should have been received. The case in regard to the genuineness of the paper was very closely contested, and was one of
the vital points in the trial. Evidence had been given on both
sides and witnesses of the highest character and respectability
had differed in regard to the genuineness of the signatures. Although the court, when the case was first with the proponents,
had notified counsel that they must offer all the evidence they
proposed to offer upon the subject before they first rested their
case, and in accordance with such decision they had proceeded
to give further evidence, we are not able to see how that fact
is material at this point. Counsel for the proponents could not
anticipate what evidence would be given by their opponents,
nor what reasons might be offered by a witness as the ground
for an opinion against the genuineness of any signature on the
paper. When Mr. Randolph therefore was examined, and
stated his opinion that the signature on the paper was not that
of General Sherman, he was naturally asked on cross-examination if there were any particular reason why he had come to
that conclusion, and in giving that reason he stated the failure
of the lines to meet in the letter T, and the peculiarity of the
loop in the letter S. The proponents could surely not be expected to anticipate that the letter T or the letter S would be
the particular subject of criticism by any witness on the other
side, nor what the character of the criticism might be. There
was nothing to call their attention to the question, and in the
nature of things it is plain the alleged peculiarities suggested
by Mr. Randolph could not have been anticipated before they
were spoken of by the witness. Under these circumstances it
seems to us it was proper evidence in rebuttal, and that it was
most important and material to show by a perfectly competent
and absolutely disinterested witness, the son of General Sherman himself, that the peculiarities testified to by Mr. Randolph
were in fact no peculiarities, and were frequently if not habitually present in the genuine signature. The fact that after the

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

witness Randolph had testified that he never saw one signature
of General Sherman's in which the lines in the capital T did not
meet, he subsequently stated that they met certainly as often
as four out of five times, did not render the proposed evidence
of Mr. Sherman immaterial when it was offered to be shown by
him that these lines not only frequently but habitually met. It
is possible to imagine that the signatures of General Sherman
which Mr. Randolph had examined in the War Department
would bear out his statement that the meeting of these lines
occurred at least as often as in four out of five of the signatures,
while in those examined by the son of the General, and with
which he was familiar, a failure to meet might be frequent, if
not habitual, and thus there might be no contradiction between
the two witnesses; but such a case would be highly improbable
to say the least, and we think that if Mr. Sherman had been
permitted to testify upon the subject, and had in fact testified
in accordance with the offer, such testimony would have been
most material as affecting the reasons given by Mr. Randolph
for his belief that the signature was not that of General Sherman. This might be true without impeaching in any degree
the integrity of Mr. Randolph or his intention to testify what
he believed to be the truth. As neither witness saw the signature made, it was a matter of opinion with each, and while either
might have been mistaken, such mistake would not necessarily
affect the character of the witness. It was not a case where
the discretion of the judge was appealed to. It was a case of
strict right, and we are of opinion that the court below erred
in refusing to admit the evidence. In such a case as this, where
there was no evidence by an eyewitness as to the signatures of
the parties, it became of the greatest importance that no admissible evidence should be excluded when offered upon the
question of their genuineness. For this error we think a new
trial will have to be granted.
Again, in the course of the trial the contestants called a Mrs.
Briggs as a witness, and proved by her that she was a journalist
by profession and had made literature her business in life, and
that she had received instruction from Judge iolt in the line of
composition in the English language; that she had gone to him

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and asked his advice about a series of articles written by her,
because she bad been informed that he was a master of the
English language; that he was her master and teacher in such
matters. She was also somewhat familiar with his handwriting,
and stated that in her opinion the signature "J. Holt" to the
paper in question was not the signature of Judge TIolt. She
was then asked: "Have you formed that opinion in any respect
upon any matter except the mere handwriting ?" This was
objected to and admitted under an exception. The witness
answered that she had, that it was from the composition: "More
the composition, as well as the writing."
Other witnesses were called who were permitted to prove
that they formed their opinions in regard to the paper from its
composition and style, and their knowledge of Judge Holt's
legal and literary attainments, as well as from their familiarity
with his handwriting. One witness was asked this question:
" Let me call your attention to the use of the word ' inherit' in
that paper, in the middle paragraph. From your knowledge of
General Holt's characteristics and his way of expressing himself, what do you think as to that being his expression? " This
question was duly objected to and the grounds fully stated, but
the court overruled the objection and permitted the witness to
answer, which he did by saying that he did not think the testator
would use that expression.
The counsel for the contestants say that these rulings were
right, but that if there were any error, it was cured by the subsequent charge of the court to the jury, given upon the request
of counsel for the contestants, in which the jury were instructed
"to disregard any opinion as to whether Joseph Holt wrote the
paper in controversy that may have been expressed by any of
the witnesses for the caveators in this case so far as such opinion
was based upon anything but the handwriting of the paper.
In so far as any such opinion may have been based in whole or
in part upon the composition of the paper or the expressions contained in it, or the legal or literary attainments of said Joseph
Holt, they are withdrawn from the consideration of the jury.
But all other evidence which has been admitted in this case
bearing upon the legal attainments and literary style of said

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

Joseph Holt remains as competent evidence for the consideration of the jury, along with the other evidence in the case bearing upon the question of the genuineness of said paper."
The general rule is that if evidence which may have been
taken in the course of a trial, be withdrawn from the consideration of the jury by the direction of the presiding judge, that
such direction cures any error which may have been committed
by its introduction. Pennsylvania Coal Company v. Roy, 102
U. S. 452 ; H1opt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430, 438. But yet there may

be instances where such a strong impression has been made upon
the minds of the jury by illegal and improper testimony, that
its subsequent withdrawal will not remove the effect caused by
its admission, and in that case the general objection may avail
on appeal or writ of error. This was stated by Mr. Justice
Field in Hfopt v. Utah, supra. And see Waldron v. Waldron,

156 U. S. 361, 383.
There may also be a defect in the language of the attempted
withdrawal, whether it was sufficiently definite to clearly identify the portion to be withdrawn. This evidence was regarded
upon the trial as of considerable importance. The question of
its admissibility was raised in the early stages of the trial, and
the evidence was excluded. It was again raised while the case
was with the contestants and the evidence admitted at their
instance, and several witnesses sworn in regard to it. After
that an effort was made on the part of the proponents to give
testimony in their favor on this question, and it was refused as
not rebutting in its character. It is not a case therefore of the
introduction of merely irrelevant evidence, such as was s.tated
in PennsylvaniaCoal Company v. Roy, aq2ra; nor like the case

of Ifopt v. Utah, supra, where the testimony of a single witness, a physician, as to the direction from which the blow was
delivered, had been admitted, and where it was held that if it
had been erroneously admitted, its subsequent withdrawal from
the case with the accompanying instructions cured the error.
That was a plain question of evidence on a single point, and on
the part of one witness only.
Here was a case where several witnesses gave opinions in
regard to the handwriting in the disputed paper, based upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

their knowledge of the handwriting of Judge Holt, and also
based upon their familiarity with his legal attainments and with
his characteristics of style and composition, while others based
their opinions upon handwriting only. Which were the witnesses that based their opinions partly upon both foundations,
the jury could not be expected to accurately recall after a long
trial lasting several weeks. Nevertheless it was called upon
to separate and cast aside that portion of the evidence which
had been based upon such facts, and after excluding that evidence, determine as to the value of the remaining opinions based
upon knowledge of handwriting only. It is at least questionable whether the case does not come within the exception to
the rule by reason of the possible impression produced upon the
jury during the long trial, in which the evidence of several witnesses upon this point was given after much opposition and long
argument as to its admissibility.
The witnesses who testified upon both knowledge of handwriting and familiarity with the style and legal attainments of
Judge Holt may have made the deeper impression upon the
jury, and they may have failed to realize that it was those particular witnesses whose evidence on the subject was to be withdrawn. And while the opinions of these witnesses as to the
handwriting of the deceased were withdrawn, yet their evidence
as to the legal attainments and composition and style of Judge
Holt was to remain as competent evidence in the case. All
this was called for by the directions, and without naming a
single witness or recalling to the jury the fact that it was his
particular opinion regarding the handwriting which was withdrawn. This was a somewhat difficult task for any mind, and
there was no certainty under such general directions that it
was properly understood, or that with the best intentions it was
fully performed. In such a case as this and under the particular facts herein we think the names of the witnesses should
have been given and the specific evidence which was given by
them and which was to be withdrawn should have been pointed
out.
. The court, be it remembered, was not responsible for the character of the directions. It simply gave them as asked for by

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

the contestants and in the language prepared by their counsel,
and whatever they lacked in the way of precision and certainty
is not the fault of the court.
It would appear that the counsel felt the doubt as to the admissibility of the evidence, and after striving so hard to get it
in, when they desired it to be withdrawn they were under an
obligation to have it done plainly and certainly. Upon the particular facts of this case, while not impairing the force of the
general rule, we are of opinion that the withdrawal was far too
uncertain to be of any avail.
We are thus brought to a consideration of the merits of the
question decided by the court below. Is the opinion of a witness as to the genuineness of the handwriting found in the paper,
based in part upon the knowledge of the witness, of the character and style of composition and the legal and literary attainments of the individual whose handwriting it purports to be,
competent to go to the jury upon that question? If he is able
to give an opinion without such evidence, and from his familiarity alone with the handwriting, can the attempt be permitted
to corroborate or strengthen such an opinion by this kind of
evidence? We think not. An expert in regard to handwriting
is one who has become familiar with the handwriting of the
individual in regard to whom the question is raised. Handwriting is a physical matter and does not in itself represent any
characteristics of the writer as to composition or general style,
or as to his literary or legal attainments. It is to be seen and
the characters recognized by the eye. But the process of his
mind and the language or style in which in the opinion of a
witness the person habitually clothes his thoughts, are not matter of expert evidence, proper to be presented to a jury, for the
purpose of determining whether the paper presented is or is not
in the handwriting of the particular individual, in regard to
whom the inquiry is made. The fact may of course be proved
that the person was a man of intelligence, education, high legal
attainments, refinement, and not addicted to coarseness in speech
or writing, and the inference may be sought to be drawn from
the facts that the paper in question is or is not his composition
and is or is not his handwriting; but where it is material the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

inference is for the jury, and taking the opinion of the witness
in that regard is to take his opinion upon the very subject to
be decided by the jury, and is not at all a proper case for opinion evidence.
We think the court, therefore, erred in permitting witnesses
to give an opinion as to the genuineness of handwriting founded
partly upon knowledge and familiarity with the legal attainments, the style and composition of the individual whose handwriting was in controversy, and as corroborative of their opinion
from knowledge of handwriting alone.
The two points above indicated in which we think the trial
court fell into error require the reversal of this judgment, and
the granting of a new trial, but there are other questions in the
case which are fully presented by the record, and which have
been most ably and exhaustively argued by counsel on both
sides. These questions will necessarily arise at the very threshold of the case when it comes on for trial again, and we think
it is our duty to express our views in relation to them. They
relate to certain evidence upon the issues of forgery and revocation.
And first, as to forgery. The paper in question was propounded as the will of Joseph Iolt.
The facts set forth in the statement prefixed to this opinion
show the case to be one of an extraordinary nature. There being no proof in regard to the history or whereabouts of the
paper before it was received by the register of wills, and the
evidence pro and con as to its genuineness having been received
upon the trial, the question arises as to the admissibility of the
various declarations of the deceased, and also of his letters to
different relatives living in Kentucky and other States, which
it is claimed tend to show the improbability of the deceased
making such a disposition of his property as is made in the
paper in controversy. (They are referred to in the statement
of facts above given.) The question is, in other words, can the
contestants prove by unsworn oral declarations and by letters
of the deceased facts from which an inference is sought to be
drawn that the disposition of the property as made in the paper
is improbable, and that the paper was therefore a forgery?

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

The decisions of the state courts as to the admissibility of this
kind of evidence are not in accord. Many of them are cited in
the margin.' Those included in class A favor the exclusion of
such evidence, while those in class B favor its admission. The
principle of exclusion was favored by Chancellor Kent, and
also by Justices Washington, Story, Livingston and Thompson,
all of whom once occupied seats upon the bench of this court.
The cases cited in the two classes do not all, or even a majority of them, deal with the question of forgery, but many of
them treat the subject of declarations of a deceased person upon
a principle which would admit or exclude them in a case where
forgery was the issue. It is not possible to comment upon each
of the cases cited in these lists, without unduly extending this
opinion. We can only refer to the two classes generally, and
state what we think are the questions decided by them.
'Class A. Boylan ads. Meeker, 28 N. J. Law, 274; Rusling v. Rusling,
36 N. J. Eq. 603; Gordon's Case, 50 N. J. Eq. 397, 424; Hayes v. West,
37 Ind. 21; Kennedy v. Upshaw, 64 Texas, 411; Mooney v. Olsen, 22
Kan. 69; Thompson v. Updegralf, 3 W. Va. 629; Couch v. Eastham, 27
W. Va. 796; Dinges v. Branson, 14 W. Va. 100; Gibson v. Gibson, 24 Mo.
227; Cawthorn v. Haynes, Id. 236; Walton v. Kendrick, 122 Mo. 504;
Comstock v. Hadlyme, 8 Conn. 254, 263; Shailer v. Bumstead, 99 Mass.
112; Lane v. Moore, 151 Mass. 87; Robinson v. Hutchinson, 27 Vt. 38,
where the evidence was received, but the inquiry was as to mental capacity,
the testatrix being greatly broken and enfeebled in mind and capacity and
of advanced age; Jackson v. Kniffen, 2 Johns. 31; Jackson v. Betts, 6
Cow. 377; Waterman v. Whitney, 11 N. Y. (1 Kernan) 157, citing many
cases; Johnson v. Hicks, 1 Lansing (N. Y.), 150; Marxr v. McGlynn, 88
N. Y. 357; Leslie v. McMurtry, 60 Ark. 301; Stevens v. Vancleve, 4 Wash.
C. C. 262; Provis v. Reed, 5 Bing. 435; 1 Redfield on Wills (4th ed.), pp.
556, 557; Gillett on Ev. see. 281; Schouler on Wills (3d ed.), sec. 317a.
Class B. Turner v. Hand, 3 Wall. Jr. 88, 92, 107; Warren v. Brown,
51 Tex. 65; Swope v. Donnelly, 190 Pa. St. 417; Taylor Will Case, decided by Surrogate of New York County, 10 Abb. Pr. N. S. 300, 306. This
case was reversed sub nom. Hlowland v. Taylor, in the Court of Appeals on
a question of fact, but no opinion is reported: 53 N. Y. 627; Davis v. Elliott, 55 N. J. Eq. 473; claimed by respondents to be adverse to Boylan
ads. Meeker, which is not referred to neither is the question itself discussed, although evidence of this nature seems to have been received,
without objection; loppe v. Byers, 60 Md. 381; Burge v. Hamilton, 72
Ga. 568, 624; Sngden v. Lord St. Leonards, L. R. 1 P. D. 154; Collaganv.
Harrison,57 Me. 449, by an equally divided court; 1 Phillim. Rep. 447-460.

OCTOBER TERMi,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

In the cases contained in class A, it is held that declarations,
either oral or written, made by a testator, either before or after
the date of the alleged will, unless made near enough to the
time of its execution to become a part of the res gestce, are not
admissible as evidence in favor of or against the validity of the
will. The exception to the rule as admitted by these eases is
that where the issue involves the testamentary capacity of the
testator and also when questions of undue influence over a weakened mind are the subject of inquiry, declarations of the testator made before or after, and yet so near to the time of the
execution of the will as to permit of the inference that the same
state of mind existed when the will was made, are admissible
for the purpose of supporting or disproving the mental capacity
of the testator to make a will at the time of the execution of
the instrument propounded as such. These declarations are to
be admitted, not in any manner as proof of the truth of the
statements declared, but only for the purpose of showing thereby
what in fact was the mental condition, or, in other words, the
mental capacity, of the testator at the time when the instrument in question was executed.
The cases contained in class B favor generally the admission
of declarations of the deceased, made under similar conditions
in which declarations are excluded by the eases in class A.
If declarations of the character now under consideration are
admissible when made prior to the execution of the alleged will,
although not after it, then a large part of the evidence in this
case as to the oral and written declarations of the deceased was
properly admitted upon the issue of forgery, because such declarations may have all been made before the forgery was executed, the date of the paper not furnishing any evidence of the
time when it was in fact prepared. The forger could not be
permitted, by giving a date to the instrument, to fix the time
subsequent to which the declarations should be excluded.
But we see no good ground for the distinction. The reasons
for excluding them after the date of the will are just as potent
when they were made prior thereto. When made prior to the
will, it is said they indicate an intention as to a testamentary
disposition of property thereafter to be made, and that such

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

declarations may be corroborative of the other testimony as to
what is contained in the will, as is said by Mellish, L. J., in Sugden v. Lord St. Leonards, L. R. 1 P. D. 154, 251, (a case of a
lost will,) or else they indicate the feeling of the deceased
towards his relatives, from which an inference is sought that a
testamentary provision not in accordance with such declarations would be forged. The declarations are, however, unsworn
in either case, and if they are inadmissible on that ground when
made subsequent to the execution of the will, they would be
also inadmissible when made prior to its execution. In Stevens
v. Vancleve, 4 Washington C. C. 262, 265, 8supra, Mr. Justice
Washington said that declarations of the deceased, prior or subsequent to the execution of the will, were nothing more than
hearsay, and there was nothing more dangerous than their admission, either to control the construction of the instrument or
to support or destroy its validity. Judge Pennington concurred
in those views.
After much reflection upon the subject, we are inclined to
the opinion that not only is the weight of authority with the
cases which exclude the evidence both before and after the execution, but the principles upon which our law of evidence is
founded necessitate that exclusion. The declarations are purely
hearsay, being merely unsworn declarations, and when no part
of the res geslce are not within any of the recognized exceptions
admitting evidence of that kind. Although in some of the cases
the remark is made that declarations are admissible which tend
to show the state of the affections of the deceased as a mental
condition, yet they are generally stated in cases where the mental capacity of the deceased is the subject of the inquiry, and
in those cases his declarations on that subject are just as likely
to aid in answering the question as to mental capacity as those
upon any other subject. But if the matter in issue be not the
mental capacity of the deceased, then such unsworn declarations,
as indicative of the state of his affections, are no more admissible than would be his unsworn declarations as to any other fact.
When they are not a part of the res gestce, declarations of this
nature are excluded because they are unsworn, being hearsay
only, and where they are claimed to be admissible on the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

that they are said to indicate the condition of mind of the deceased with regard to his affections, they are still unsworn declarations, and they cannot be admitted if other unsworn declarations are excluded. In other words, there is no ground for an
exception in favor of the admissibility of declarations of a deceased person as to the state of his affections, when the mental
or testamentary capacity of the deceased is not in issue. When
such an issue is made, it is one which relates to a state of mind
which was involuntary and over which the deceased had not
the control of the sane individual, and his declarations are admitted, not as any evidence of their truth, but only because he
made them, and that is an original fact from which, among
others, light is sought to be reflected upon the main issue of testamentary capacity. The truth or falsity of such declarations
is not important upon such an issue, (unless that for the purpose
of showing delusion it may be necessary to give evidence of
their falsity,) but the mere fact that they were uttered may be
most material evidence upon that issue. The declarations of
the sane man are under his control, and they may or may not
reflect his true feelings, while the utterances of the man whose
mind is impaired from disease or old age are not the result of
reflection and judgment, but spontaneous outpourings arising
from mental weakness or derangement. The difference between
the two, both as to the manner and subject of the declarations,
might be obvious. It is quite apparent therefore that declarations of the deceased are properly received upon the question of
his state of mind, whether mentally strong and capable or weak
and incapable, and that from all the testimony, including his
declarations, his mental capacity can probably be determined
with considerable accuracy. Whether the utterances are true
or false cannot be determined from their mere statement, and
they are without value as proof of their truth, whether made
by the sane or insane, because they are in either case unsworn
declarations.
Thus it is said in S/ia ler v. Bumstead, 99 Mass. 112, which
is one of the cases cited in the margin in class A: "Intention,
purpose, mental peculiarity and condition are mainly ascertainable through the medium afforded by the power of language.

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

Statements and declarations, when the state of the mind is the
fact to be shown, are therefore received as mental acts or conduct. The truth orfalsity of the statement is of no consequence."
The testatrix in the above case died in 1865, at the age of
ninety-one, having executed a will in 1851, another in 1853, and
a codicil thereto in 1857, and among other issues raised was
one of testamentary capacity. The declarations that were held
admissible were only for the purpose of showing " what manner
of person she was," who uttered them. They were used to
throw light upon an alleged state of mind which was involuntary and the result of disease and old age. If used for any
other purpose they were not admissible, said the court, because
they were mere hearsay and could never be explained or contradicted by the person who uttered them.
And so in Gibson v. Gibson, 24 Missouri, 227, the court said
such declarations were admitted when it was proposed to show
the condition of the testator's mind or to show the state of his
affections, but never as a mere narrative of facts. The latter
remark is explained in the next case in the same volume,
(p. 236,) the opinion in which was delivered by the same judge,
by which it is seen that such evidence was admissible only on
the issue of insanity. See pages 238 and 239, where the point
is plainly made that there must be a foundation of that kind in
order to let in the proof of declarations as to his affections,
which could only be admitted on such an issue.
And it was also said in Waterman v. Whitney, 11 N. Y.
supra, that to receive declarations when no such issue was involved would be attended "with all the dangers which could
grow out of a change of purpose, or of external motives operating upon an intelligent mind. No such dangers would attend the evidence upon inquiries in relation to the sanity or
capacity of the testator." To the same effect is Boylan ads.
Jeeker, 28 N. J. L. cited in class A. It is therefore clear
that as their truth in such an issue is not of importance, and
their materiality lies only in the fact that they were made, the
principle of rejecting unsworn declarations has no application.
But when it is sought to prove them as coming from one about
whose perfect mental capacity there is no dispute, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

they relate to the alleged state of his affections when made, the
only possible importance of such declarations rests in the claim
that they are true, and an inference is sought to be drawn which
is founded wholly upon the assumption of their truth. Now if
their only value rest upon that assumption, then the fact that
they are unsworn declarations brings them at once within the
bar of the general rule of evidence that unsworn declarations
are not admissible. As indicative of mental capacity they are
original evidence, sworn to by the witness, but as evidence of
the truth of the statement declared they are simply unsworn
declarations, and should be excluded accordingly.
The cases mentioned in class B proceed upon a totally different theory, viz., that the declarations may be true and are made
by a person who knows all about the subject, and they are
therefore proper to be submitted to the jury for what that body
may regard their worth, although it is admitted that it is a
very dangerous kind of evidence. We are familiar with the
case of Sugden v. Lord St. Ieonards, sutpra, L. R. 1 P. D. 154.
Cockburn, Chief Justice, in that case favored the admission of
declarations of the testator as secondary evidence of the contents of the lost will, on the ground that such declarations
were usually honestly made, and that the evidence might be
put on the same footing with declarations of a family in matters
of pedigree, evidence not always to be relied on, yet sufficiently
so to make it worth admitting, leaving its effect to he judged
of by those who have to decide the case. pp. 224, 225. It
seems to us that the admission of the evidence substantially enlarged the exception to the rule as to hearsay. Jessel, M. R.,
(at p. 240), undertook to give the exceptions to the general rule
as to hearsay, (which exceptions do not include this case,) but
he thought upon the principles upon which some of the exceptions were founded, the declarations had been properly admitted, the case being one of a lost will, known to have existed
but which at the death of the testator was not forthcoming.
N[ellish, L. J., thought the declarations of testator made after
the will were inadmissible, while James, L. J., and Baggallay,
J. A., concurred with the Chief Justice.
The remarks of the Master of the Rolls were adverted to in

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court,

the subsequent case of Woodward v. Goulstone, in the House of
Lords, L. R. 11 App. C. 469, by Herschell, L. C., and by Lords
Blackburn and Fitzgerald, all of whom stated (pp. 478, 484, 486)
that they did not wish in deciding the case to be regarded as
approving the views in the Sugden case upon the admissibility
of the declarations of the deceased testator made subsequently
to the execution of the will, even in the case of a lost will;
that the question was not necessary to the decision of the case
then before them, and that they wished to reserve their opinion
until it was necessary to decide it. Considerable doubt is thus
thrown by the highest legal tribunal in England upon the correctness of the decision of the lower court. In New York and
probably in most of the other States the character and sufficiency of the evidence to establish a lost will are provided for
by statute. Schultz v. Schultz, 35 N. Y. 653.
The decision in the Suycle case also overrules that of Quick
v. Quick, 3 Sw. & Tr. 442, where Lord Penzance refused probate of the alleged will, there being no other evidence of its contents than the declarations of the testator made after its execution, and it also runs counter to the opinion of Lord Campbell
in Doe v. Palmer,16 Q. B. 747.
The law cannot therefore be regarded as settled in England
that, even in the case of a lost will, declarations of the testator
made after its execution are to be admitted as evidence of its
contents. It is also proper to call attention to the fact that all
the judges participating in the decision of Sugden's case were
entirely satisfied with the proof of the contents of the lost will,
wholly aside from evidence of these declarations.
While the case is not like the one before us, inasmuch as the
inquiry here is not in regard to the contents of a lost will, yet
it might perhaps be urged with some force that if declarations
of that kind were admissible, the evidence now before us is competent, and was properly admitted.
We are, however, convinced that the true rule excludes evidence of the kind we are considering. We remain of the opinion that the declarations come within no exception to the law
excluding hearsay evidence upon the trial of an action, and we
think the exceptions should not be enlarged to admit the eviVOL. cLxxx-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

dence. Where the issue is not one in regard to the mental
capacity of the alleged testator to make a will, his declarations
upon the subject cannot be said to be declarations made against
interest, such as declarations made by an individual while in
possession of property, in disparagement of his absolute ownership. Such evidence has been admitted as declarations against
interest or as characterizing possession, but the same declarations made after a conveyance of the land would be inadmissible, as mere hearsay and in no degree as declarations against
interest. Declarations made by an alleged testator before or
after the date of the paper are not declarations against interest,
because they can have no effect upon his interest. The will
would not take effect until after his death, and before that time
he could revoke it or make another, and it would still be immaterial evidence even if he did neither.
There is another reason why no exception should be made in
favor of such evidence upon which to build a presumption or
inference of forgery, and that is the inherent weakness and danger of the evidence itself. No inference is generally more uncertain or unreliable than that which is sought to be drawn upon
the question of the genuineness of a will from the alleged condition or a testator's inind towards ielatives or others, as evidenced by his declarations. It is every day experience that declarations of that nature are to the last degree unreliable as a
basis for an inference as to probable testamentary disposition of
property. Those who thought by reason of such declarations
that they would certainly be remembered in the will of the testator are so frequently disappointed, and that too in cases where
there is not the remotest suspicion of forgery, that it would
seem exceedingly unsafe to permit a jury to draw an inference
based upon such evidence, relative to the genuine character of
the instrumnent propounded as a will. Although admitting the
evidence, yet Sir John Nicholl, in Jolston v. Johnston, 1
Phillim. Rep. 447, 460, said : "1P arol declarations ought to be
received with great caution; in general, they are the lowest
species of evidence. . . . They may on the part of the testator be insincere, or at best the mere passing thought of the
moment, and are liable on the part of witnesses to be misappre-

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

hended and misrepresented. But confidential communications
with his wife upon her serious representations to him respecting
so important a subject are deserving of rather more weight as
evidence of the deceased's mind and intentions."
The common-law rules of evidence do not obtain in the ecclesiastical courts of England in regard to the proof of wills relating to personalty. "On the contrary, the evidence bearing on
these points is generally mixed up with declarations of the party,
and frequently consists of such declarations alone." Per Tindal,
Ch. J., in Exchequer Chamber, 1838, in
arston v. Fox, 8 Ad.
& El. 14, 56. The unreliable character of the evidence is acknowledged, but it is taken in connection with almost any other
evidence, for what it is worth. In our judgment its value is
entirely too problematical at its best to cause us to make an
exception to the well considered rule of evidence prohibiting
hearsay.
The motives underlying and causing the particular provisions
of a will may be so various and so hidden from observation that
it is in the highest degree unsafe to draw an inference of forgery
based upon declarations as to testamentary intentions which are
so subject to change and which declarations may or may not represent the true feelings of the testator or even his actual testamentary intention at the time when spoken. The result is very
apt to be a breaking down of the safeguards provided by statute for the proof of the due execution of a will, and to provide
in place of that proof evidence which is in itself of the most
unsatisfactory nature, and from such evidence permit a jury to
draw a still more uncertain inference of forgery.
We are not aware of any well founded rule permitting such
evidence on the mere ground that it is probable the declarations were true, and therefore, though unsworn, should be received. On this ground it might equally be maintained that
evidence of the declarations of a person, since deceased, in a
matter regarding which he had been familiar, who had been a
man of undoubted character and probity, and who had had no
interest in the subject, ought to be received though not sworn
to. But in such case the probability of their truth has not
been regarded as sufficient to admit the declarations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

In matters of pedigree, declarations by members of the family are admitted, because the question in such cases is generally
one concerning the parentage or descent of the individual, and
in order to ascertain that fact it is material to know how he was
acknowledged and treated by those who were interested in him
or sustained towards him any relations of blood or affinity.
1 Greenleaf's Ev. sees. 103, 104. Evidence showing how he
was acknowledged and treated is frequently only to be shown
by declarations made at the time, and though unsworn are received as the best that the nature of the case permits. The
analogy between such evidence and evidence of the nature
under discussion is somewhat formal and far-fetched.
Undoubtedly cases may arise from the enforcement of this
rule where injustice may be the result. It is possible that a
forged instrument may in a particular case be declared a true
one, where if evidence of this nature had been admitted the
decision might have been the other way. An extreme case
may be assumed, such as was put by Mr. Justice Grier in Turner v. ITand, 3 Wall. Jr. 88, 107, supra, by way of illustration
in charging the jury, and although he held in the case he was
trying that the evidence was admissible, he at the sametime said
it must be regarded with very great caution as a dangerous kind
of evidence. Turner v. H1-and was one of the many phases in
which the controversy over the alleged will of Meeker was conducted in the courts of New Jersey and in the Federal court,
while Boylan ads. Jeeker, 28 N. J. Law, above cited, was another.
The difficulty in regard to a rule of evidence is that it cannot
be the subject of enforcement or non-enforcement according to
the exigencies of the particular case. The rule must be general in its application. It cannot depend upon the opinion of
the judge in each case whether the declarations are or are not
to be relied upon. The rule must either permit or refuse to
permit the evidence. We think that more injustice is possible
as a result of admitting the evidence than from its exclusion.
The statutes of all the States have very careful and stringent
provisions in relation to the making of wills, and the due proof
of their execution. The wills must be in writing, (with the

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

exception of certain nuncupative wills,) signed by the testator
and witnessed by others; and to permit evidence of the nature
given in this case tends, as we think, most strongly to break
down the efficiency of the statutory provisions, and to render
proof of the execution of wills much less certain than was contemplated by the statutes. If declarations of the deceased were
admissible to attack, they would then of course be admissible
to sustain the will, and there would be apt to arise a contest in
regard to the number and character of conflicting declarations
of the deceased which he could neither deny nor explain, and
in the course of which contest great opportunities for fraud and
perjury would exist. The statutes as to wills were passed, as
we believe, for the very purpose of shutting out all contests of
such a character.
If not admissible generally, it is as we" think inadmissible
even as merely corroborative of the evidence denying the genuine character of the handwriting. It is open to the same
objection in either case as merely unsworn declarations or hearsay.
We are therefore of opinion that the court below erred in
admitting this evidence upon the issue of forgery, and that the
error was of a most important and material nature.
The last question is whether this evidence, even though not
admissible on the issue of forgery, was admissible upon that of
revocation, as it was offered on both, and if admissible upon
either, the general objection to its admission would be unavailing, and there was no request to charge the jury to confine it
to the issue of revocation alone. This question remains therefore, although the jury found there was no revocation because
the will was never executed.
It is manifest that upon the issue of revocation the fact of the
execution of the will is to be assumed, for in the nature of
things one cannot revoke a will which he never made. It is
conceded on the part of proponents that the will appeared, when
it came to the hands of the register of wills, to have been mutilated, torn and burned around its edges, and counsel concede
that its appearance is such that if it bad been found among the
papers or repositories of the deceased, a presumption would have

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

arisen in favor of its revocation. The question is whether any
presumption of cancellation or revocation by the deceased, or
under his direction, is created in this case by the condition in
which the paper was when received by the register of wills
through the mail on August 26, 1895. If not, then these declarations subsequent to 1873 are not admissible on the theory that
they are in aid or corroborative of a presumption that does not
exist.
After proof that a will had been duly executed and was in
the possession of the testator, the failure to find it after his
death would be presumptive evidence that the testator had destroyed with an intention to revoke it. The presumption could,
of course, be overcome by proper evidence leading to a contrary
conclusion. This is conceded.
But here the will is found, not among the papers of the deceased at his former residence, but it comes through the mail
to the register of wills more than a year after the decease of
Judge Holt. The presumption of revocation cannot therefore
attach from the failure to find a will once shown to have existed,
for here the will is found and produced. We are left absolutely
without evidence as to its whereabouts from the time of its execution in 1873 down to the time when the register of wills received the envelope enclosing it in August, 1895.
It is in evidence that immediately after the death of Judge
Holt two of his nephews came to the house, and during the next
few days papers were burned under their direction by one of
the servants in the house. The evidence of these nephews given
on the trial was absolute and distinct to the point that no paper
of any consequence or in the nature of a testamentary disposition of property was found or destroyed, and there is no one to
contradict or dispute such evidence; but the fact exists that
there was a burning of papers.
Some evidence was given upon the subject of a similarity of
form between the half printed and half written characters on
the envelope directed to the register of wills and those found
upon a sign put upon the stable of the deceased by the servant
who had destroyed papers under the direction of the nephews,
but we think such evidence was of no importance, and it must

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore be admitted that there is no evidence that the address
on the envelope was in the handwriting of any particular person.
We think no presumption of revocation by the testator, or
under his direction, arises from the appearance of this will
when first received by the register of wills.
In fTite-ings v. Wood and others, decided by the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council in 1841, (2 Moore's P. C. C.
355, 447,) Lord Lyndhurst, Langdale, TV[.R., Shadwe]l, V. C.
Baron Parke and Mr. Justice Littledale being in the court, the
holograph instrument purporting to be a codicil to the will of
James Wood, sent anonymously by the post to one of the legatees named therein, though partly burned and torn, was (reversing the court below) admitted to probate, the handwriting
being satisfactorily proved; and it was held that under the circumstances of the case the onus of proving that the cancellation was the act of the testator, and with what intention it was
done, lay on the parties opposing the proof. In the course of
his opinion, Lord Lyndhurst said:
"Then, as to the alleged cancellation, we think, if this be a genuine instrument, that the onus to make out the fact of the cancellation is on those who oppose the codicil. It seems that a
corner had been burnt, the paper torn through, and in one place
across the signature; but by whom, and under what circumnstances, does not appear. There is nothing whatever to show
that it was done by the testator, or if so, with what intention
it was done. If it be a genuine instrument it proves that there
was also another codicil, and which is not forthcoming. It is
obvious, we think, that it must have been improperly dealt with,
for if it was defaced by the testator he would either have entirely destroyed it or it would have been found in this state
among his papers. The circumstance of its being in other
hbands shows that a fraud had been practised, and that no safe
conclusion can be drawn from its appearance that it was burnt
or torn by the testator. But even if it had been found among
the testator's papers at the time of his death, we incline to think
some further evidence beyond its present appearance would be
necessary to show that he intended to cancel it. Our opinion,
therefore, is that the codicil ought to be approved."

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

This case establishes the point that no presumption of revocation arose upon the facts herein by reason of the appearance
of the paper, and after execution is proved by evidence of the
handwriting the onus rests upon the individual claiming that
the paper was revoked by the testator, to prove the fact. There
must be some evidence of an act by the deceased, or under his
direction, which would be sufficient to show the fact, or the instrument must have been found among the papers of the deceased, mutilated and torn or otherwise defaced, and under
such circumstances that the fact of revocation might be presumed. It was observed in Johnston v. Johnston, 1 Phillimore
Rep. 447, 497, that a will once regularly made, the presumption of law is strong in its favor; the intention to revoke must
be plain and without doubt.
There being no presumption of revocation from the appearance of the paper, and the onus being on those who assert its
revocation, can the written or oral declarations of the testator,
made subsequently to the execution of the will, and tending to
show the existence of another will, not otherwise proved, or
tending to show the state of his affections for his relatives and
an alleged change in his feelings towards the relatives of one of
the legatees, though not toward the legatee herself, be admitted for the purpose of asking the jury to infer either that the
testator himself mutilated and burned with the intention to revoke the will, or directed the acts of mutilation and burning,
in order to accomplish such revocation? Can such evidence
take the place of proof of an act on the part of the deceased
(or directed by him) sufficient to revoke a will, and from which
an intention to revoke might be presumed? Here is simply a
case of an inference sought to be drawn that the testator did
the act and with the intent to revoke the will, because of his
making certain declarations as to a will and also because he
had expressed friendly feelings towards some of his relatives,
and feelings the reverse of friendly towards the father of one
of the legatees.
The will having been executed by the testator, it is said that
it must be assumed to have been in his possession or under his
control up to the time of his decease, and it is urged that proof

THROCKMORTON v. HOLT.
Opinion of the Court.

of the state of mind of the testator during more than twenty
years subsequent to the execution of the will is proper to be
considered by the jury, in order that it may from that proof
infer that the acts of mutilation were performed by the testator
or under his direction, and also that they were performed or
directed with the purpose of revocation. A double inference is
thus based upon a most insecure and dangerous foundation.
The evidence is of the same nature that we have just said was
inadmissible upon the issue of forgery; only here the inference
sought is a revocation instead of the forgery of the will. We
think the declarations are no more admissible for the purpose
of inferring a revocation than for the purpose of inferring the
forgery of the will.
There is in the first place no evidence that the testator either
himself performed or that he authorized the acts of mutilation,
and we think no presumption that he did can arise from the
fact that the will was not found among his papers. And the
appearance of the will when received by the register furnished
no such presumption.
Counsel for the contestants have cited a number of cases which
they claim show the admissibility of this class of evidence, in
addition to those cited in the foregoing discussion, upon the
issue of forgery. They are placed in the margin.'
The evidence is claimed to be admissible for the purpose of
authorizing an inference therefrom that the testator himself
mutilated or directed the mutilation of the will for the purpose
of thereby revoking it. Declarations made by a testator at the
time of mutilation or cancellation, going to show the intent
with which the act is done, are of course admissible, being part of
the res gestov. But as the production of the will under the circumstances proved in this case created no presumption of revocation, it was necessary to prove that the act of mutilation
I.Lawyer v. Smith, 8 Mich. 411, 423; Pattersonv. Iickey,
Harringv. Allen, 25 Mich. 505; Burge v. Hamilton, 72 Ga.
gan v. Burns, 57 Me. 449; Collyer v. Collyer, 110 N. Y. 481,
v. McDonald, 142 Ind. 55, 81; Miller v. Phillips, 9 R. I. 141,
entine's Will, 93 Wis. 45, 55; Pickens v. Davis, 134 Mass. 252;
L. R. 6 P. D. 1, 5.

32 Ga. 156, 164;
568, 625; Colla484; McDonald
144; In re ValGould v. Lakes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

was performed by the testator or by his direction, and with an
intention to revoke, and we think that his declarations, not being part of the res gestce, cannot be permitted for the purpose
of asking the jury to infer therefrom that the testator not only
performed or directed the act of mutilation but did so with the
intent to revoke the instrument. This kind of evidence is of a
most dangerous character. It is hearsay, and nothing more.
Some of the cases cited above admitted proof of declarations
in aid of the presumption of revocation arising from the finding
of the mutilated will among the effects of the deceased. Lawyer v. Smith, 8 Mich. 411; Patterson v. iliekey, 32 Georgia,
156. Another case, Burge v. Ijamilton, 72 Georgia, 568, admitted declarations of a testator made to his attorney at the
time of the execution of a codicil to his will, in relation to the
number of pages to his will, then present and exhibited to the
attorney, the question arising from some mistake in the numbering of the pages, and the testator declaring to his attorney
that the will which was then read over to him was all right
and the numbering of the pages a mistake. The court held the
paper presented an ambiguity, and a question of the identity of
the paper produced with the will as executed. The declarations
were in reality part of the res gestcB.
In another case the evidence went to prove that two sheets
stitched together and found in an envelope were parts of the
will. Gould v. Lakes, L. R. 6 P. D. 1. In some of the other
cases declarations were admitted on the same theory as stated
above in the discussion as to forgery.
There must be an act and an intention in order to revoke.
Neither can be inferred from evidence of declarations of a testator apart from the act and with no proof that the testator
ever performed an act of a revocatory nature. Unless a part
of the res gestcc we see no reason for the admission of these declarations any more than upon the issue of forgery.
As is stated by James, Lord Justice, in Clieese v. Lovejoy,
L. R. 2 P. D. 251, in speaking of the evidence of revocation:
"It is quite clear that a symbolical burning will not do, a
symbolical tearing will not do, nor will a symbolical destruction.
There must be the act as well as the intention. As it was put

FREEPORT WATER COMPANY v.FREEPORT CITY. 587
Syllabus.

by Dr. Deane in the court below, 'all the destroying in the
world without intention will not revoke a will, nor all the intention in the world without destroying; there must be the
two.' "
We cannot overcome the feeling that to admit evidence of
this nature is in the highest degree dangerous, and that its admission would tend very strongly to impair the efficacy of the
statutes relating to the proof and revocation of wills.
Ti judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia is reversed and the cause remanded to that court with
directions to reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District and to remand the cause to that court with instructionsto grant a new trial.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, MR.JUSTICE WHITE and MR.JUSTICE

agreed with the opinion only upon the first and second
grounds discussed, and dissented from the others.
MR.JUSTICE BROWN concurred in the result.
MOKENNA

FREEPORT WATER COMPANY v. FREEPORT CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 348. Submitted October 31, 1900.-Decided March 25, 1901.

The water company was a corporation organized under general statutes
of Illinois, as was also the city. In June, 1882, the government of the
city gave the water company an exclusive right to supply the city with
water for thirty years, reserving the right of purchasing the works erected
for that purpose, and if this right were not exercised, the rights of the
company were to be extended for a further term. Provision was made
for the erection of hydrants by the company for which fixed rentals
were to be charged, and the city was given rights in a part of them.
Further provisions were made for the payment of water rates by consumers. In 1896 an ordinance was passed by the city reducing the rentals
of the hydrants and rates to consumers to take effect from the date of
its passage. At the time when the grant of 1882 was made, a statute
passed in 1872 was in force in Illinois, authorizing cities and villages to

