NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Statement of the Case.

to amend its decree in the _articulars above specified, it being acflrmed a8 so modified.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM and MR. JUSTICE OCKENNA took no
part in the consideration and disposition of the case.

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 281.

Argued December 11, 13,900.-Decided January 28, 1901.

The decree heretofore entered upon the mandate of this court, 175 U. S.
120, permitted of no distinction being made between drainage warrants
issued for the purchase of the dredging plant of the Mexican Gulf Ship
Canal Company, and such as were issued in the purchase of the franchises,
and in settlement of the claim for damages urged by the Canal Company
and Van Norden against the city of New Orleans.
There was no error in permitting all parties holding drainage warrants of
the same class, to come in and prove their claims without formal intervention or special leave, though the validity of such warrants in the hands
of their holders might be examined, except so far as such validity had
been already settled by the decree.
Warrants to the amount of twenty thousand dollars issued for drainage
funds collected by the city and misapplied and appropriated to the general funds of the city were also properly allowed.

TIls was a writ of certiorari to review a decree of the Court of
Appeals, rendered May 1, 1900, affirming a decree of the Circuit
Court for the-Eastern District of Louisiana, rendered March 26,
1900, which overruled certain exceptions of the defendant, the
city of New Orleans, to a master's report upon the amounts due
under a decree rendered by the Court of Appeals, May 7, 1898,
and affirmed by this court January 15, 1900. 175 U. S. 120.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirmed by this
court, contained the following paragraphs:
1. That the city of New Orleans was indebted to John G.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Warner in the sum of $6000 with interest, and that he was entitled to be paid such sum out of the drainage assessments set
forth in the bill.
2. That such drainage assessments constituted a trust fund in
the hands of the city for the purpose of paying the claims of
the complainant and holders of the same class of warrants issued under the act of sale from Warner Van Norden, transferee,
to said city under authority of act No. 16 of the legislature of
Louisiana, approved February 24, 1876.
3. That it be referred to a master to take and state an account of all said drainage assessments; that warrant holders
be entitled to establish their claims before the master without
formal interventions or special leave of the court, and that,
upon the coming in of his report, complainant and other claimants would be entitled to an absolute decree for the amounts
due them, if the fund established by the accounting be sufficient,
but if not sufficient to pay such claims in full, then for the proper
.proract thereof, etc. The other provisions of the decree are
immaterial.
Upon this reference warrants to the amount of $316,000, of
a total of $320,000, ($4000 having been paid,) were presented
by different parties, including Warner, and the master found,
(1) that all these warrants were "issued to Warner Van Norden,
transferee of the Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company, by the defendant, the city of New Orleans, in payment of the consideration
of the agreement and contract of sale between himself and said
city, by act (of sale) . . . dated June 7, 1876, as in said act
specified, pursuant to the authority of the act of the legislature
of Louisiana, No. 16, dated February 24, 1876, as set forth in
the complainant's bill, etc. ; . . . that each of said warrants
was indorsed in blank by Warner Van Norden, transferee, to
whose order they were made payable, and delivered to said
claimants, or other parties through whom they have acquired
title; and that the said Van Norden has since . . . formally
transferred to the complainant, and to all holders of warrants
who might intervene in this cause, any and all interest he ever
had in said warrants, and subrogated them to all his rights of
actions and remedies against the defendant appertaining to the
same."

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

Exceptions were filed to this report upon the ground (1) that
the advantages of the decree extended only to such warrants as
were issued in payment of the property purchased by the act of
sale, which said property as shown by the inventory and appraisement of T. S. Hardee, city surveyor, amounted to $153,750;
"that the balance of drainage warrants issued under said act
were not in payment of the price of the property thereby sold,
and hence were not purchase warrants in the sense of the opinions and decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the Supreme Court herein; that such balance of said warrants were
issued in settlement of a claim for damages urged by the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company, and Warner
Van Norden, against the city of New Orleans." (2) "That of
said warrants the sum of $20,000 were issued, as will appear by
the express terms of the act, in payment of work which had
been done by said Van Norden, that is, digging canals and building levees, which, at the time of the passage of said act, had not
been surveyed or measured by the city surveyor; and hence,
that as to these warrants there could be no recovery or allowance made."
In a supplemental report upon these exceptions the master
found that the city issued warrants Nos. 313 to 392, inclusive, in
discharge of the consideration of the agreement of sale passed
before Le Gardeur, notary public, amounting to $300,000, and
also issued warrants, Nos. 393 to 402, inclusive, aggregating
$20,000, not for work, but as a compromise for drainage taxes
collected and misappropriated, as stated in the said act of sale.
PT.
Mr. Branch K. Miller for the city of New Orleans.
Samuel L. Gilmore and AJlr. Frank B. Thomas were on his
brief.
Ar. Wheeler I. Peckham for Warner and others. Mr. Richard Do Gray filed a brief for same. 211. J D. Rouse and Mr.
William Grant filed a brief for same.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

1. The second assignment of error filed in the Circuit Court,
adopting the substance of the exceptions to the master's report,
raises a distinction between the drainage warrants issued for the
purchase of the dredge boats, derricks and other tangible property of the ship canal company, appraised at $153,750, and such
as were issued in the purchase of the franchise and in settlement of the claim for damages urged by the canal company
and Van Norden against the city of New Orleans. No such
distinction, however, appears in the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, affirmed by this court in 175 U. S. 120, which declared that the drainage assessments set forth in the bill should
constitute a trust fund in the hands of the city for the purpose
of paying the claims of complainant and oth4er holders of the
same class of warrants issued under the act of sale from Van
Norden to the city, and referred the case to a master to state an
account of all the drainage assessments, before whom all warrant
holders were to be notified to appear and establish their claims,
without being required to file intervention or to obtain special
leave of the court. Pursuant to this notice the warrant holders
did appear and presented their warrants, which were allowed.
The decree did not permit of any distinction being made and
none was made between warrants issued for the purchase of the
property and such as were issued in purchase of the franchise or
in settlement of damages, and it is difficult to see in what respect the master or the court departed from the decree of this
court.
As the bill was brought by Warner on his own behalf, as well
as on behalf of all other parties holding obligations of the same
nature and kind, there was no error in permitting all such parties to come in and prove their claims without formal interventions or special leave. All the warrants allowed belonged to
the same class as Warner's and were issued upon the same consideration. This is the method commonly resorted to in bills
for the foreclosure of railway mortgages, or other securities,
under which bonds have been issued and are widely scattered
in the hands of holders, many of whom are unknown and impossible to ascertain except by advertisement. In cases of this
character decrees are treated as decrees in favor of all in like

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

situation as the plaintiff who come in and claim the benefit of
them. Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S. 27; Brooks v. Gibbons,
4 Paige, 374; Thompson v. Brown, 4 Johns. (Ch. 619; R1ammond v. 11-ammond, 2 Bland, 306.
Doubtless the validity of these claims in the hands of holders may be examined, except so far as such validity has been
already settled by the decree; but where the master upon the
reference has followed the decree and enforced its directions,
no objection can be taken upon appeal as to what he has done,
when the appeal arises upon exceptions to his report. _NYew
Orleans v. Gaines, 15 Wall. 624. The master was powerless to
entertain any objection to the decree or any proposal for its
modification. His duty was simply to carry it out according
to its terms.
It should be stated in this connection that no such distinction
between the different classes of warrants as is now made was
called to the attention of this court when the case was here
upon questions certified, 167 U. S. 467, or upon the merits, 175
U. S. 120. In fact, the present exceptions to the master's report obviously involve an attempt to set up a new defence as
to a part of these warrants, after the merits of the case have
been fully considered and disposed of. This is impossible.
Yazoo &e. R. R. Co. v. Adams, ante, 1; Supervisors v. Kennicott, 91 U. S. 498.
But considering the question to be still an open one, and that
we are at liberty to inquire whether the court exceeded its
authority in decreeing the payment of these warrants, without
reference to whether they were given for the purchase of the
property or franchises, or the settlement of damages, the result
would not be different. It was evident there had been a claim
for damages pending a long time against the city. By the act
of February 24, 1871, No. 30, "to provide for the drainage of
New Orleans," the former boards of drainage commissioners
were abolished, and their assets transferred to a board of administrators, who were "subrogated to all the rights, powers
and facilities" possessed by the commissioners. The ship canal
company was authorized to undertake the work of draining the
city, and by section 6, it was made the duty of the board of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

administrators "to locate the lines of the canals and protection
levees, specified in the various sections of this act, in time to
prevent delay in the prosecution of the work of the said company. . * . And should the city council fail to locate the
lines of said canal and protection levees above specified, the
city of New Orleans is hereby made liable to the said company
for the dagnages resulting from such delay."
By the act of February 24, 1876, No. 16, authorizing the city
to control its own drainage and to purchase the property of the
ship canal company, the common council was empowered "to
transact and contract" with the ship canal company, and its
transferee, "for the purchase and settlement of all or any
rights, franchises and privileges created, authorized or arising
in favor of said company or said transferee under and by virtue
of act No. 30, of acts of 1871; also, for the purchase and
transfer to the city of New Orleans of all tools, implements,
machines, boats and apparatus belonging to said company or
its transferee," etc. It will be observed that the city is invested
with a double power: First, to transact and contract for the
purchase and settlenent of any rights, franchises, privileges,
etc., and the other for the purchase and transfer of the dredging plant. The word "transact," which seems ambiguous here,
is explained by article No. 3071 of the Civil Code of Louisiana,
which defines "a transaction or compromise" to be "an agreement between two or more persons, who, for the purpose of
preventing or putting an end to a lawsuit, adjust their differences by mutual consent." By the second clause of the section
the purchase and transfer of the dredging plant was authorized.
Pursuant to this act the city surveyor was authorized by ordinance of April 26, 1876, to examine the condition and value of the
dredging plant, making a report to the committee of the whole,
"together with a statement of all information in the possession
of his office concerning damages claimed by said . . . canal
company, or transferee thereof." In compliance with this ordinance he appraised the value of the dredging plant at $153,750,
and stated that the damages claimed by the transferee were for
delays at various times and places, and further stated that he
was unable to arrive at a conclusion as to their amount, and

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

did not feel called upon to express an opinion; but that he had
no doubt the committee, from the facts stated, would be able
to arrive at a just and satisfactory conclusion. This left the
common council free to settle for the damages without an appraisement. Under these circumstances the failure to appraise
the damages would not vitiate their settlement.
By a further ordinance, adopted May 26, 1876, the mayor
was authorized to enter into an agreement with the canal company for the purchase of its plant, and "also for the full settlement of all claims for damages, and to secure the absolute sale,
relinquishment and transfer to the city of New Orleans of all
rights, privileges and franchises," etc., and upon the execution
of the agreement to draw upon the administrator of finance
for the sum of $300,000 in drainage warrants, in full settlement,
as above provided.
Conceding that the power given by the act of 1.876 to transact and contract with the canal company for the purchase and
settlement of all or any righl, franchises and privileges, is somewhat ambiguous as the source of a power to compromise for
dcmnages, the practical construction put upon that act by the
ordinances of April 26 and May 26, 1876, as including claims
for damages, is entitled to great weight, particularly in view
of the long subsequent acquiescence of the city in that construction.
By the act of sale executed June 7, 1876, the canal company
transferred its dredging plant to the city, as well as its franchises, privileges, contracts and advantages, and subrogated the
city to all its rights, actions and remedies, in consideration of
the sum of $300,000; and the president and secretary of the
canal company, and Van Norden, their transferee, also agreed
that the above amount should be in full settlement of " all existing claims for damages" which either of them "ever had,
or have now, or may have against the said city of New Orleans."
It is difficult to see how the intention of the city to settle
all these claims could be made clearer, or the terms of the actual settlement more sweeping than they were by these proceedings. What the items of damages were does not appear,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

As to what influences were brought to bear upon the common
council to induce it to pay so large a sum as $146,250 for these
damages, we are equally in the dark. Certainly we are not at
liberty to impute corrupt motives to the council. The arrangement may have been an unfortunate one, but the arrangement
as made is beyond doubt.
It is obviously impossible to distinguish as between these warrants, and to say that such were issued in payment of the plant,
and such others for the purchase of franchises and in settlement
of the damages. Granting the position taken by the city to be
correct, it would result that all the warrants must be scaled
down -Prorata in the proportion of about fifty per cent, which
would obviously be unfair to those who received purchase warrants, or there must be some attempt to classify these warrants.
But as the warrants were all alike in form, no such classification
is possible. It is suggested by the city that it must be considered that the warrants were issued and applied in the numerical order of their execution: First, for the payment of the
price of the property purchased; next, for the claim for the settlement of damages; and lastly, for the payment of work mentioned in the said notarial act. But this would result in the
rejection of the Warner warrants, which were expressly allowed
by the decree of this court to the amount of $6000, since it appears by the report of the master that the warrants issued to
Warner and allowed by such decree were Nos. 379, 380 and
381, and did not fall among the first $153,750 issued, but were
payable long after this amount, appraised as the value of the
plant, had been exhausted. It would also result in the disallowance of certain warrants to Wilder & Company, upon which a
judgment at law was recovered on May 24, 1898, after the case
had been remanded from the Circuit Court of Appeals. Obviously the position of the city in respect to these warrants is
untenable.
2. The only other item to which exception is taken is one of
$20,000, for which warrants Nos. 392 to 402, inclusive, were
issued as a compromise of drainage taxes collected by the city
and misappropriated. These were in excess of the $300,000
allowed in payment of the plant and various claims of the canal

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

company, and were especially provided for in the act of sale as
follows: "That inasmuch as it has been claimed that certain
collections of drainage funds have been applied by the previous
administrators to general fund purposes, the said city of New
Orleans will issue to the said W. Van Norden the sum of $20,000
in drainage warrants in full satisfaction of the same."
The authority to include this in the act of sale is questioned
by the city, but we think it comes within the first section of
the act of 1876, which provides for "the purchase and settlearising in favor of said ship
ment of all or any rig/ts . .
canal company, or said transferee," under the act of 1871,
and within the ordinance of May 26, to which allusion has already been made, which provides for "the full settlement of all
claims for damages and to secure the absolute sale, relinquishment and transfer to the city of New Orleans of all rights
in favor of the canal company." Money col. .arising
S
lected by the city, applicable to the drainage funds, and appropriated to the general funds of the city, manifestly creates a right
in favor of the canal company to a restoration of the amount.
If there were doubt of the proper construction of these words
the long acquiescence of the city and the failure to raise an objection to this claim until after final decree is sufficient to put
the matter at rest.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Afirmed.
Mi.

'JusTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM took no part

in this case.

