ANSLEY v. AINSWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

rather upon a decision of the Supreme Court, pronounced in
another case since the judgment in this was rendered."
We concur in this view. It seems to us clear that the relief
contemplated by section 1088 was in respect of matters of fact
whereby some fraud, wrong or injustice had been done to defendants. Indeed the section provides that such new trials
shall be granted " upon such evidence, cumulative or otherwise, as shall satisfy the court that any fraud, wrong or injustice in the premises had been done." Ew varte Russell, 13
Wall. 664; Beclknap v. United Slales, 150 U. S. 588, 591. This
being so, it is unnecessary to consider whether the twenty-day
limitation of the act of 1880 operated in amendment of section 1088, for that section does not authorize motions for new
trial on the grounds upon which those in question rested.
As the Court of Claims 'was right in denying the motions, the
rules liereinbefore granted must be dischargedand the petitions dismissed, and it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurred in the result.

ANSLEY v. AINSWORTH.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COURT IN THE INDIAN TERRITORY.
No. 136. Submitted December 20, 1900.-Decided February 11, 1901.

The legislation in respect of the United States court in the Indian Territory
considered: it is held that an appeal does not lie directly to this court
from a decree of the trial court in the Indian Territory, although the suit
in which the decree is rendered may have involved the constitutionality
of an act of Congress. Whether an appeal lies to this court from the Court

of Appeals of the Indian Territory in such cases is a question which does
not arise on this record.

THIS was a bill filed in the United States Court in and for
the Central District of the Indian Territory by W. H. Ansley,
M. H. Gleason and R. 0. Edmonds against N. B. Ainsworth

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

. C. Burriss, 0. E.Woods, James Elliott and the Ola Coal and
Mining Company, alleging: That Ansley was by blood a member and citizen of the Choctaw Nation of Indians; that Gleason
and Edmonds were citizens of the United States by birth, who
by intermarriage with members of the Choctaw Nation had
become citizens of that nation; that Ainsworth was a citizen of
the Choctaw Nation and Burriss a citizen of the Chickasaw
iNation; that Woods and Elliott were citizens of the United
States; and that the mining company was a corporation organized under the laws of Kansas, engaged in operating a mine in
the Choctaw Nation, Elliott being president, and Woods general
manager, thereof.
The bill averred that in November, 1890, Gleason and Edmonds and one Riddle, a citizen by blood of the Choctaw Nation,
discovered coal, and acquired an exclusive and perpetual right
to a coal claim to themselves and their assigns under section
eighteen of article seven of the Choctaw constitution; the laws,
usages and customs of that nation; and acts of the Choctaw
Council; and that in February, 1898, Riddle conveyed his undivided one-third interest in the coal claim to Ansley.
That Gleason, Edmonds and Riddle, in 1896, contracted with
Woods to work the mine, and that Woods contracted with the
mining company for the working of the same, and that under
the agreements Gleason, Edmonds and Riddle were to receive a
royalty.
That Ainsworth and Burriss were coal trustees designated by
the governors of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, respectively, and appointed by the President, under the act of Congress of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495, 510, c. 517, which act ratified
an agreement with the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations, known
as the "Atoka Agreement," also afterwards ratified by the
people of said nations, and operated to annul all individual leases
and to prohibit the payment to or receipt by individuals of any
royalty on coal, and provided that all royalties should be paid
into the Treasury of the United States for the benefit of the
tribes, to be drawn therefrom under such rules and regulations
as should. be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, and
that all leases for the working of coal lands entered into by and

ANSLEY v. AINSWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

between persons or corporations desiring to mine coal and the
mining trustees of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations should
be approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
The bill was filed to enjoin Woods, Elliott and the mining
company from entering into a lease with Ainsworth and Burriss, mining trustees of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations,
and denied on various grounds the constitutionality and validity
of the provisions of the act of Congress.
The United States Court for the Central District of the Indian
Territory, Clayton, J., presiding, held that there was no equity
in the bill, and sustained a demurrer thereto, and, complainants
declining to plead further, dismissed the bill with costs, whereupon an appeal was allowed to this court.

lr. Yancey Lewis and 2r. J. I. Gordon for appellants.
.Wr. J. W. JLcoud for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The objection of want of jurisdiction over this appeal meets
us on the threshold.
By the act of March 1, 1889, entitled "An act to establish a
United States Court in the Indian Territory, and for other purposes," 25 Stat. 783, c. 333, a court was established with a single
judge, whose jurisdiction extended over the Indian Territory,
and it was provided that two terms of said court should be held
each year at Muscogee in that Territory, and such special sessions as might be necessary for the dispatch of business in said
court at such time as the judge might deem expedient.
May 2, 1890, an act was passed "To provide a temporary
government for the Territory of Oldahoma, to enlarge the jurisdiction of the United States Court in the Indian Territory, and
for other purposes," 26 Stat. 81, 93, 94, c. 182, §§ 29, 30 and 31,
which defined the Indian Territory; gave additional jurisdiction to the court in that Territory as therein set forth; and,
for the purpose of holding terms of the court, divided the Territory into three specified divisions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

By section five of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, as amended, appeals or writs of error might be
taken from the District and Circuit Courts directly to this court
in cases in which the jurisdiction of the court was in issue; of
conviction of a capital crime; involving the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States; and in
which the constitutionality of any law of the United States, or
the validity or construction of any treaty made under its authority, was drawn in question.
By section six, the Circuit Courts of Appeals established by
the act were invested with appellate jurisdiction in all other
cases.
The thirteenth section read: "Appeals and writs of error
may be taken and prosecuted from the decisions of the United
States Court in the Indian Territory to the Supreme Court of
the United States, or to the Circuit Court of Appeals in the
Eighth Circuit, in the same manner and under the same regulations as from the Circuit or District Courts of the United States,
under this act."
March 1, 1895, an act was approved entitled "An act to provide for the appointment of additional judges of the United
States Court in the Indian Territory." 28 Stat. 693, c. 145.
This act divided the Indian Territory into three jadicial districts,
to be known as the Northern, Central and Southern Districts,
and provided for two additional judges for the court, one of
whom should be judge of the -Northern District, and the other
judge of the Southern District, and that the judge then in office
should be judge of the Central District. The judges were clothed
with all the authority, both in term time and in vacation, as to
all matters and causes, both criminal and civil, that might be
brought in said districts, and the same superintending control
over commissioners' courts therein, the same authority in the
judicial districts to issue writs of habeas corpus, etc., as by law
vested in the judge of the United States Court in the Indian
Territory, or in the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States. The judge of each district was authorized and empowered to hold court in any other district, for the trial of any
case which the judge of such other district was disqualified from

ANSLEY v. AINSWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

trying, and whenever on account of sickness, or for any other
reason, the judge of any district was unable to perform the
duties of his office, it was provided that either of the other
judges might act in his stead in term time or vacation. All
laws theretofore enacted conferring jurisdiction upon the United
States courts held in Arkansas, Kansas and Texas, outside of the
limits of the Indian Territory, as defined by law, as to offences
committed within the Territory, were repealed, and their jurisdiction conferred after September 1, 1896, on the "United States
Court in the Indian Territory."
Section eleven of this act read as follows:
"SEC.

11. That the judges of said court shall constitute a

court of appeals, to be presided over by the judge oldest in commission as chief justice of said court; and said court shall have
such jurisdiction and powers in said Indian Territory and such
general superintending control over the courts thereof as is conferred upon the Supreme Court of Arkansas over the courts
thereof by the laws of said State, as provided by chapter forty
of Mansfield's Digest of the Laws of Arkansas, and the provisions of said chapter, so far as they relate to the jurisdiction and
powers of said Supreme Court of Arkansas as to appeals and
writs of error, and as to the trial and decision of causes, so far
as they are applicable, shall be, and they are hereby, extended
over and put in force in the Indian Territory; and appeals and
writs of error from said court in said districts to said appellate
court, in criminal cases, shall be prosecuted under the provisions
of chapter forty-six of said Mansfield's Digest, by this act put
in force in the Indian Territory. But no one of said judges
shall sit in said appellate court in the determination of any cause
in which an appeal is prosecuted from the decision of any court
over which he presided. In case of said presiding judge being
absent, the judge next oldest in commission shall preside over
said appellate court, and in such case two of said judges shall
constitute a quorum. In all cases where the court is equally
divided in opinion, the judgment of the court below shall stand
affirmed.
"Writs of error and appeals from the final decisions of said
appellate court shall be allowed, and may be taken to the CirVOL. CLXXX-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

cuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Judicial Circuit in the
same manner and under the same regulations as appeals are
taken from the Circuit Courts of the United States. Said appellate court shall appoint its own clerk, who shall hold his office
at the pleasure of said court, and who shall receive a salary of
one thousand two hundred dollars per annum. The marshal of
the district wherein such appellate court shall be held shall be
marshal of such court. Said appellate court shall be held at
South McAlester, in the Choctaw Nation, and it shall hold two
terms in each year, at such times and for such periods as may be
fixed by the court."
The Indian Appropriation Act of June 10, 1896, 29 Stat.
321, 339, c. 398, in respect of the proceedings therein referred to,
provided that "if the tribe, or any person, be aggrieved with
the decision of the tribal authorities or the commission provided
for in this act, it or he may appeal from said decision to the
United States District Court : Provided, however, that the appeal shall be taken within sixty days, and the judgment of the
court shall be final."
It has been ruled that the court thus described as the "United
States District Court" was the United States Court in the Indian Territory. Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S.477.
By the Indian Appropriation Act of June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30
Stat. 84, provision was made for the appointment of an additional judge for the United States Court in the Indian Territory,
who was to hold court at such places in the several judicial districts therein, and at such times, as the appellate court of the
Territory might designate. This judge was to be a member of
the appellate court and have all the authority, exercise all the
powers, and perform the like duties as the other judges of the
court, and it was "Provided, That no one of said judges shall
sit in the hearing of any case in said appellate court which was
decided by him."
By this act it was also provided:
"That on and after January first, eighteen hundred and
ninety-eight, the United States courts in said Territory shall
have original and exclusive jurisdiction and authority to try and
determine all civil causes in law and equity thereafter instituted,

ANSLEY v. AINSWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

and all criminal causes for the punishment of any offence committed after January first, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,
by any person in said Territory, and the United States commissioners in said Territory shall have and exercise the powers and
jurisdiction already conferred upon them by existing laws of the
United States as respects all persons and property in said Territory; and the laws of the United States and the State of Arkansas in force in the Territory shall apply to all persons
therein, irrespective of race, said courts exercising jurisdiction
thereof as now conferred upon them in the trial of like causes;
and any citizen of any one of said tribes otherwise qualified who
can speak and understand the English language may serve as a
juror in any of said courts."
The Indian Appropriation Act of July 1, 1898, 30 Stat. 591,
c. 545, contained the following:
"Appeals shall be allowed from the United States courts in
the Indian Territory direct to the Supreme Court of the United
States to either party, in all citizenship cases, and in all cases
between either of the Five Civilized Tribes and the United
States involving the constitutionality or validity of any legislation affecting citizenship, or the allotment of lands, in the Indian
Territory, under the rules and regulations governing appeals to
said court in other cases: Provided, That appeals in cases decided prior to this act must be perfected in one hundred and
twenty days from its passage; and in cases decided subsequent
thereto, within sixty days from final judgment but in no such
case shall the work of the commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes be enjoined or suspended by any proceeding in, or order
of, any court, or of any judge, until after final judgment in the
Supreme Court of the United States. In case of appeals, as
aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the Supreme Court to advance
such cases on the docket and dispose of the same as early as
possible."
In Stephens v. Clerokee Nation., 174 U. S.445, it was held
that the appeal thus granted was intended to extend only to
the constitutionality or validity of the legislation affecting citizenship or allotment of land in the Indian Territory.
Thus it is seen that the act of March 12 1895, created a Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of Appeals in the Indian Territory, with such superintending
control over the courts in that Territory as the Supreme Court
of Arkansas possessed over the courts of that State by the laws
thereof; and the act also provided that "writs of error and
appeals from the final decisions of said appellate court shall be
allowed, and may be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Judicial Circuit in the same manner and under the
same regulations as appeals are taken from the Circuit Courts
of the United States," which necessarily deprived that court of
jurisdiction of appeals from the Indian Territory trial court under section 13 of the act of 1891.
Prior to the act of 1895, the United States Court in the Indian Territory had no jurisdiction over capital cases, but by
that act its jurisdiction was extended to embrace them, and we
held in Brown v. United States, 171 U. S.631, that this court
had no jurisdiction over capital cases in that court, the appellate jurisdiction in such cases being vested in the appellate
court of the Indian Territory.
In StepJhens v. Cherokee -Nation,we thought it unnecessary
to determine whether the effect of the act of 1895 was to render the thirteenth section of the act of 1891 wholly inapplicable, as the judgments of the United States courts in the Indian
Territory in the cases there considered were made final below
by the act of 1896, and the appeals were regarded as having
been in terms granted from those judgments by the act of 1898.
But this case is not affected by the act of 1898, and we are
of opinion that it does not come within the thirteenth section
of the act of 1891. In accordance with the legislation subsequent to 1891, the appeal shduld have been prosecuted to the
Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory. The question
whether or not an appeal would lie to this court from that
court does not arise on this record.
Appeal dismissed.

