MOUNTA1N VIEW MIN. & MILL. CO. v. McFADDEN. 533
Counsel for Parties.

court should, under the questions certified, consider and determine the entire merits of the case.
We answer the certified questions to this extent:
1. That the Circuit Court of the United States should have
regarded the decisions of the Supreme Court of North Carolina
in Banc v. Commissioners, Commtissioners v. Snuggs, Rodman
v. Washington, Commissioners of Wilkes County v. Call, and
Comissioners v. Payne, above cited, as controlling upon the
inquiry whether the legislative enactments of 1868, 1879 and
1881 were passed in such manner as to become, under the constitution, laws of the State.
2. That the rights of the parties in this case are determinable
by the law of the State as it was declared by the state court to
be at the time the bonds here involved were made in the name
of the county and put upon the market.
Tlese answers will be certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

MOUNTAIN

APPEAL

FROM

VIEW MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v. McFADDEN.
THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 162. Submitted March 5, 1901. -Decided March 25, 1901.
Blackburn v. Portland Gold Mining Company, 175 U. S. 571, and Shoshone

Mining Company v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505, affirmed and applied.
Resort cannot be had to judicial knowledge to raise controversies not presented by the pleadings.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
fr. W. B. Heyburn and Xr. I. A. Doherty for appellant.
iXfr. A. B. Browne, ir. Alexander Britton and Mr. TV. T1.
Stoll for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ME.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Mountain View Mining and Milling Company had made
application for a patent on a certain lode mining claim in the
land office at Spokane, Washington, against which McFadden
and others duly filed their protest and adverse claim, and thereupon brought this action "in aid of their said adverse claim,
and to determine the right of possession," in the Superior Court
of Stevens County, Washington, which was removed on the
mining company's petition into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Washington, but not on the ground
of diverse citizenship. Plaintiffs moved to remand the cause,
and the motion was denied.
The petition for removal set up "that the controversy herein
is a suit of a civil nature arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, brought in pursuance of the provisions of section 2326 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, providing for the filing of adverse claims against the
application for patent for mining claims, and the bringing of
suits in support of said adverse claims."
The petition also set forth that the construction of two acts
of Congress was involved, namely, an act approved July 1,
1892, 27 Stat. 62, entitled "An act to provide for the opening of a part of the Colville Reservation, in the State of Washington, and for other purposes," and an act of February 20,
1896, 29 Stat. 9, entitled "An act to extend the mineral land
laws of the United States to the lands embraced in the north
half of the Colville Indian Reservation." But the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court on removal depended on plaintiffs' statement of their own claim, and that only disclosed an action
brought in support of an adverse mining claim.
In Blackburn v. Portland Gold Xining Company, 175 U. S.
571, and Shoshone Xining Conany v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505,
we held that a suit brought in support of an adverse claim under the Revised Statutes, sections 2325, 2326, was not a suit
arising under the laws of the United States in such a sense as to
confer jurisdiction on the Federal court regardless of the citizenship of the parties.

MOUNTAIN VIEW MIN. & MILL. CO. v. McFADDEN. 535
Opinion of the Court.

It is conceded by counsel on both sides that those decisions are
controlling, unless the Circuit Court was entitled to maintain
jurisdiction by taking judicial notice of the fact "that the
Mountain View lode claim was located upon what had been
or was an Indian reservation," and "of the act of Congress
declaring the north half of the reservation, upon which the
claim was located, to have been restored to the public domain ;"
notwithstanding no claim based on these facts was stated in the
complaint. But the Circuit Court could not make plaintiffs' case
other than they made it by taking judicial notice of facts which
they did not choose to rely on in their pleading. The averments
brought no controversy in this regard into court, in respect of
which resort might be had to judicial knowledge. Thayer,
Treatise on Evidence, ch. VII; Oregon &c. Railway v. Skottowe, 162 U. S. 490.
In 8pokane Falls &c. Railway Company v. Ziegler, 167 U. S.
65, plaintiff alleged in his complaint that he was in possession,
as a preimptor, of a tract of land, and entitled to a patent for
the same from the United States; that the defendant company,
being a corporation of the Territory of Washington, had seized
a strip of his land and appropriated it for railroad purposes
without his consent and without having compensated him therefor; but that the entry on and seizure of the land was under
and pursuant to the laws of the Territory of Washington authorizing railroad companies to appropriate land for right of
way for railroad tracks. As we had judicial knowledge that
the authority of the territory to legislate in respect of the
right of a territorial railroad corporation to enter upon the
public lands of the United States was derived from the act of
Congress of March 3, 1875, we held that the plaintiff's complaint disclosed the case of a contest between a settler claiming title under the laws of the United States and a railroad
company claiming a right under an act of Congress. The case
before us affords no such basis for sustaining the jurisdiction.
In Powill v. Brunswice County, 150 U. S. 433, 440, we said:
"If it appear from the record by clear and necessary intendment that the Federal question must have been directly involved so that the state court could not have given judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Syllabus.

without deciding it, that will be sufficient; but resort cannot
be had to the expedient of importing into the record the legislation of the State as judicially known to its courts, and
holding the validity of such legislation to have been drawn in
question, and a decision necessarily rendered thereon, in arriving at conclusions upon the matters actually presented and considered." And see Yazoo & Mississippi Railroad v. Adams,
180 U. S. 41.
The result is that
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed; the judgment of the Circuit Court must be also
reversed, and the cause be remanded to that court with a
direction to remand it to the state court, the costs of this
court and of the other courts to be paid by the Mountain
View .Miningand JIilling Company. So ordered.

In re ALEXANDER McKENZIE, PETITIONER.
ORIGINAL.
No.

. Original.

Submitted February 26, 1001.-Decided March 25,1901.

The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made use of as a writ of error, and
when applied for to relieve from restraint in punishment for contempt
in the violation of orders of court, will not be issued unless the orders
violated are absolutely void.
Orders of the District Court of Alaska, second division, appointing a receiver and granting an injunction, are appealable to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and on refusal of the District Court to do
so, the Court of Appeals may allow such appeals with supersedeas, and
grant writs of supersedeas, if considered necessary.
If a judge of the Court of Appeals allows such appeals and supersedeas,
and directs the issue of writs of supersedeas, ordering among other things
the restoration of the property taken possession of by the receiver, orders
of the Court of Appeals approving of his action in doing so, and of the
writs so issued, are not void.
Where appeals are granted and the original citation and writ of supersedeas
together with certified copies of the assignments of error and of the super-

