OCTOBER TERMB,

1900.

Syllabus.

it necessary to do more than announce the rule, that to render
a Federal question available on writ of error from a state court
it must have been raised in the case before judgment, and cannot be claimed for the first time in a petition for rehearing.
feyer v. Jaichmond, 172 U. S. 82, 92 and cases cited.
As there is no error in the record, judgment is
Afirmed.
MRt.

JUSTICE

BROWN took no part in this decision.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 86. Argued November 7, 8, 190.-Decided January 7, 1901.

The testator of the defendants in error commenced in his lifetime an action
against the District of Columbia for trespasses on land of his in the District. The alleged trespasses consisted in entering on the land and digging up and removing, under claim of right, a quantity of gravel to be
used for repairing and constructing public highways. The testator died
before the action was brought to trial. His executors brought it to trial
and secured a verdict and judgment in their behalf, which was sustained by
the Court of Appeals of the District. The issues involved are stated fully
by the court in its opinion here, on which statement it is held:
(1) That as there was no evidence of a formal grant, and as the District
relied upon an alleged dedication of the trust to the uses to which
the District put it, the issue was properly submitted to the jury;
(2) That the Court did not err in holding and instructing the jury that
the use of the tract by the public must have been adverse to the
owner of the fee;
(3) That there was no error in holding and instructing the jury that the
prescriptive right of highway was confined to the width as actually
and without any intermission used for the period of twenty years;
(4) That there was no error in so instructing the jury as to deprive the
District of a legal presumption that the public acts required to be
performed by it in order to give the right claimed had been performed;
(5) That there was no error in leaving to the jury the question whether

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

(6)

(7)

(8)
(9)

the District of Columbia had done the acts constituting the trespass, without the execution of its lawful powers according to law;
That there was no error in submitting to the jury the question whether
the gravel was obtained incident to the lawful exercise of the power
to grade;
That there was no error in sustaining the twelfth prayer of the defendants in error, and thereby submitting to the jury to find and
determine both the law and facts of the case; and also thereby holding that if the jury found any one of the facts enumerated in said
prayer without regard to its probative force, it would tend to prove
that Harewood road was not a public way, and rebut any presumption that it was a public highway;
That there was no error in refusing the twenty-third prayer of the
District;
That the Court properly instructed the jury that they might enhance
the damages that would make the claimants whole, by any sum not
greater than the interest on such account from the time of the filing of the original declaration.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Andrew B. Duvall for plaintiff in error.
A. Brandenburgwas on his brief.

Mr. Clarence

Xr. Conway Robinson and Wr. Walter D. Davidge for defendants in error. ilfr. Leigh Robinson and ir. Conway Robinson, Jr., were on their brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

MoKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for damages which was brought by Conway
Robinson against the District of Columbia, for certain alleged
trespasses on his land called the "Vineyard." The trespasses
consisted in breaking and entering his close and digging a trench
386 feet long, 33 feet wide and 14 feet deep, and carrying away
4683 cubic yards of gravel. The grounds of action were presented in several counts. The District pleaded the general issue and the statute of limitations. The plaintiff joined issue
on the first plea, and demurred to the second. No disposition
was made of the demurrer until February 18, 1884, when the
death of the plaintiff was suggested.
On the 29th of October, 1886, the defendants in error, execu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tors of Conway Robinson, filed an amended declaration, presenting the cause of action in three counts. The first alleged
the taking of the gravel from Ilarewood road; the second, its
taking and using upon other roads; the third, the breaking and
entering the close; the fourth, the breaking and entering the
close, and the excavation of a trench, thereby separating parts
of the close from other parts and impairing its value as suburban property.
On December 30, 1896, the District pleaded the general issue
to the amended declaration. Issue was joined on the plea.
Subsequently, by leave of the court, the District filed additional
pleas. First, the statute of limitations of three years; second,
liberum ienementutm; third, that the trespasses complained of
consisted in the excavation and removal of gravel and soil from
within the lines of a public highway known as Harewood road.
Upon motion the first plea was stricken out and a demurrer was
sustained to the second. The case was tried on the general issue and the third plea.
A verdict was rendered for the plaintiffs (defendants in error) in the sum of $8000, and a judgment was duly entered
thereon. It was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 14 D. C.
App. 512, and the case was then brought here.
The errors assigned are on exceptions taken to the giving,
refusing and modifying instructions. It is not necessary to
detail the testimony. It is enough to say that it tended to
support the issues made by the parties respectively, and to support the claim that Harewood road was a public highway. For
the latter the District relied upon prescription and dedication
arising from twenty years' use by the public, and also upon the
action of the levy court in relation to the road.
For the statutes in regard to the levy court and its functions
we may quote from the opinion of the Court of Appeals as follows:
"The law of Maryland in force at the time of the cession of
the District declared that the county courts 'shall set down
and ascertain in their records, once every year, what are the
public roads of their respective counties.' Act 1704, oh. 21,

sec. 3,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

"The act of Congress, July 1, 1812, empowered the levy court
to lay out public roads, condemn lands therefor, and so forth,
and provided that when a road shall have been so established,
marked and opened they shall return the courses, bounds and
plat thereof to the clerk of the county to be by him recorded,
and it shall thereafter be taken, held and adjudged to be a public road. 2 Stat. 771.
"Section 2 of the act of May 3, 1862, declares that all roads
which have been used by the public for a period of twenty-five
years or more as a highway, and have been recognized by the
levy court as public county roads, and for the repairs of which
the levy court has appropriated and expended money, shall be
public highways whether they have been recorded or not. Section 3 provides that within one year from its passage, the levy
court shall cause the county surveyor to survey and plat all
such roads and have the same recorded. In making the survey
he was required to follow as near as possible the boundaries
heretofore used and known for the highway and to mark the
same at all angles with stones or posts. 12 Stat. 383. This
time for surveying, platting and recording was extended three
years by act of February 21, 1863, 12 Stat 658, and again for
three years from July 1,.1865, by act of June 25, 1864. 13
Stat. 193. The Revised Statutes of the District (A. D. 1874)
also provide that all public roads which have been duly laid
out, or declared and recorded as such, are public highways, Rev.
Stat. D. C. see. 246; and that every public highway shall be
surveyed and platted and that a certificate of the survey and
plat shall be recorded in the records kept for that purpose.
Rev. Stat. D. C. see. 248.
"The penalty provided for the obstruction of public roads, as
renacted in the Revised Statutes of June 22, 1874, is limited
to such as have been used and recognized for twenty-five years
prior to May 1, 1862, and which ' were thereafter duly surveyed,
recorded and declared public highways according to law.' Rev.
Stat. D. C. see. 269."
Whatever evidence is necessary to illustrate the instructions
will be stated hereafter.
There is an assignment of error which in effect, though in

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

form an attack on instructions, questions the sufficiency of the
evidence to justify any recovery, and which asserts that it was
the duty of the court to have taken the case from the jury. In
other words, it is claimed that the trial court should have decided, and not left to the jury to decide, that the road was a
public highway. It is not clear upon what the contention is
rested. Whether it is rested on the ground that the road was
established by the levy court, or that evidence showed beyond
reasonable dispute that the road had been acquired by adverse
use, or had been dedicated by plaintiff's predecessors in the
title. But the evidence did not establish either conclusion beyond reasonable dispute. Both conclusions were disputable
and disputed, and whether they were or were not justifiable
inferences from the evidence, which was conflicting, was for
the jury to determine, not for the court, and the court properly
declined to do so. What were within the functions of the court
and what were within the functions of the jury are questions
entirely aside from the distinction between public and private
ways and the manner of acquiring either-whether by grants
or by acts i, pais establishing title by dedication or prescription, the propositions which counsel have learnedly argued.
There is no evidence of a formal, grant. The dedication of
the road or the prescriptive right of the public to it was sought
to be proved by the acts of the owners of the land and certain
uses by the public. There was opposing evidence or rather
evidence of opposing tendency which could be claimed to show
that the use by the public was in subordination to the titlewas permissive, not adverse. The issue hence arising was
properly submitted to the jury.
The other assignments of error are more specific and exhibit
for review the legal propositions which were involved in the
issues. These are that the court erred in the following particulars:
(1) In holding and so instructing the jury that the use of the
road by the public must have been adverse to the owner of
the fee.
(2) In holding and instructing the jury "that the prescriptive

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

right of highway is confined to the width as actually and without any intermission used for the period of twenty years."
(3) By depriving the District of the presumption that the
public acts required to be performed were performed.
(4) By leaving to the jury a pure question of law, to wit,
"whether the District of Columbia had done the acts constituting the trespass ' without the execution of its lawful powers
according to law.'"
(5) By submitting to the jury a question of law, to wit,
"whether the gravel was obtained incident to the lawful exercise of the power to grade."
(6) By "sustaining the granting of the twelfth prayer of the
defendants in error and thereby submitting to the jury to find
and determine both the law and the facts of the case; and also
thereby holding that if the jury found any one of the facts
enumerated in said prayer without regard to its probative force,
it would tend to prove Harewood road was not a public way
and rebut any presumption that it was a public highway."
(7) By refusing the twenty-third prayer of the District, "and
thereby holding that the defendants in error were not bound
by the answer of the Commissioners to the bill of discovery
filed by the testator of the defendants in error respecting the
bonafides of the action of said Commissioners in respect of the
alteration of Harewood road and the purpose of such alteration."
(8) By instructing the jury that they "might enhance the
damages that would make them whole by any sum not greater
than the interest on such amount from the time of the filing
of the original declaration."
1. The first proposition was presented by the following prayers
requested by the District and modified by the court. The
words in brackets were struck out by the court, those in italics
were added:
"II. If the jury believe from the evidence that the place
where the alleged trespasses were committed is part of the road
called the ' Harewood road,' in the District of Columbia, and
that the said road had been used and recognized as a public
county road for a period of twenty-five years prior to May 3,
VOL. cLXXX-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

1862, adverse to the plaintifT's testator and those under whom
he claimed, and that said road was, after said last-mentioned
date and prior to the 1st day of July, 1868, surveyed and recorded in the records of the levy court as a public highway,
then the [plaintiffs are not entitled to recover in this action,
and the verdict should be for the defendant] the jury should
find that the said roadway is a public highway of the width
that it had actually been used prior to May 3, 1862.
" The maps introduced by the defendants are not such surveys
and records as the act of 1862 contemplated, but may be considered, together with all the ot/her evidence in the case bearing upon
that point, in determining whether such survey and record was
made.
"III. If the jury believe from the evidence that the place
where the alleged trespasses were committed is part of the road
called the 'Ilarewood road,' in the District of Columbia, and
that said road was a public county road, generally used and
recognized as such by the public for an uninterrupted period
of more than twenty years prior to 1880, and adversely to the
plaintiff's testator and those under whom he claimed, under the
control of and kept up and repaired by the public authorities,
and used by it publicly, openly and notoriously for all the purposes of a public highway, under a claim of right, then the
jury may and ought to presume a grant of a right of way to
the public over said road [and the plaintiffs are not entitled to
recover in this action and the verdict should be for the defendant] to the width it had been so used."
"V. [The rule of presumption is one of policy as well as of
convenience, and is necessary for the peace and security of society and] if the jury believe from the evidence that the public
used 'IlHarewood road' as a public highway, whenever it saw fit,
without [asking] leave of the owner and without objection from
him, this is adverse, and uninterrupted adverse enjoyment for
twenty years constitutes a title which cannot afterwards be disputed. Such enjoyment, without evidence to explain how it
began, is presumed to be in pursuance of a full and unqualified
grant."
"XX. If the jury believe from the evidence that I-arewood

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

road was on May 3, 1862, a road within the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia, which had been used by
the public adverse to the plaintiffs' testator and those under
whom he claimed for a period of twenty-five years or more as
a highway, and had been recognized by the levy court of said
county prior to that date as a public county road, and the said
levy court had appropriated and expended money for the repairs of said Harewood road, then they are instructed that the
said I-arewood road was at the time of the alleged trespasses
complained of a public highway, of the width it had been used,
although the same may not have been recorded."
But for the criticism of counsel the modifications and additions made by the court might be considered as having done
no more than to bring out more clearly the meaning of the
prayers. The recognition and control of the road by the District and its use by the public under "a claim of right" (third
prayer) or "without asking leave of the owner and without
objection from him" (fifth prayer), seem equivalent to a declaration of adverse use. Counsel, however, now contend for a different meaning and a different principle of law. They contend
first, as we understand, that use alone without regard to the consent of the owner of the fee or his attitude to the use constituted
the road a highway (prayer 2), and required a grant of it to be
presumed (prayers 3 and 5).
The contention is not justified. The use must be adverse to
the owner of the fee. The rule is correctly stated in 2 Greenleaf on Evidence. The learned author, after defining prescription and the period of possession which constituted it, and
explaining the modern practice which has introduced "a new
kind of title, namely, the presumption of a grant, made and
lost in modern times; which the jury are advised or directed
to find, upon evidence of enjoyment for sufficient length of
time," says, "in the United States grants have been very freely
presumed, upon proof of an adverse, exclusive andd uninterrupted
enjoyment for twenty years." And after stating the quality of
presumption which arises, he continues: "In order, however,
that the enjoyment of an easement in another's land may be
conclusive of the right, it must have been adverse, that is, un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

der a claim of title, with the knowledge and acquiesence of the
owner of the land, and uninterrupted; and the burden of proving this is on the party claiming the easement. If he leaves it
doubtful, whether the enjoyment was adverse, known to the
owner, and uninterrupted, it is not conclusive in his favor."
Sees. 538 and 539. Under a different rule licenses would grow
into grants of the fee and permissive occupations of land become conveyances of it. "It would shock that sense of right,"
Chief Justice Marshall said in AHirk v. Smith, 9 Wheat. 286,
"which must be felt equally by legislators and judges, if a possession which was permissive, and entirely consistent with the
title of another, should silently bar that title."
2. This proposition arises on the following prayer given at
the request of the plaintiff:
"The jury are instructed that the right to an easement of
common and public highway acquired by a prescriptive use or
long use of the road is confined to the lines and width of the
road as actually used for and at the end of the period of twenty
years, and does not extend to a greater width beyond the width
of the road so actually used, and in this connection the jury are
further instructed that the planting or placing of the boundary
stones mentioned in the evidence, if the same occurred within
twenty years before the acts complained of, which are in evidence, -would not extend such easement by yrescription beyond
the lines and width of such actual use."
The same reason and principle applies to this as to the preceding proposition. Relying for right of way on use, the right
could not extend beyond the use. Or, as it has been expressed,
"if the right to the way depends solely upon user, then the
width of the way and the extent of the servitude is measured
by the character of the user, the easement cannot be broader
than the user." 1 Elliott on Roads, page 136, and cases cited.
3. This proposition is based upon the modifications by the
court of the twelfth prayer requested by the District. It was
as follows:
" [The levy court of the District of Columbia was a corporation. Its duty, among other things, was to supervise and

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

keep in repair the public roads of the county of Washington,
and to plat, record and mark with boundary stones such roads.]
"If the jury find from the evidence that boundary stones
were placed along Harewood road and at the point of the alleged trespass by the surveyor of the levy court in 1865 or
thereabouts, and that thereafter said levy court worked and
kept said road in repair, then [in the absence of evidence to the
contrary the presumnption is that] it is a question for tbejury
to determine whether said levy court caused said road to be surveyed, platted and recorded as a public highway in accordance
with the act of Congress [requiring the same to be done, and
such presumption is not overcome by the fact that the record
of the survey and plat of said road is lost or cannot be found],
and it will be competent for them to so find if all the evidence
establishes the fact to their satisfaction, although no record of a
survey and plat of said road has been given in evidence."
The objection to the action of the court is that the District
was thereby deprived of the presumptions which attend and
support the acts of public officers.
One of the defences made by the District was that the road
had become a highway under and by virtue of the acts of Congress heretofore referred to. As a condition of this defence it
was necessary to establish that the road had been surveyed,
platted and recorded by the levy court, and it was the effect
of the prayer which was requested that the performance of
that duty would be presumed by the law from the fact that the
road had been worked and kept in repair by the levy court.
In other words, such surveying, platting and recording would
be presumed because it was the duty of the levy court to have
done them under the acts of Congress. Undoubtedly the law
indulges presumptions of the performance of their duty by
public officers and presumptions of the existence of circumstances which generally precede or accompany acts testified to
and which are necessary to their validity, but such presumptions
are in aid of the evidence. They are not independent of the evidence nor raised against it. The record shows that the plaintiffs' testimony tended to establish "that the road was never
surveyed, platted or recorded as a public road, as required by

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

law." The testimony on the part of the District was that the
secretary to the governor of the District in 1871 obtained from
the former secretary of the levy court what were supposed to
be all of the records of the court, and turned them over to the
treasurer of the board of public works, and that those records
may be among the old records of the District, but witness did
not know; nor did he know what was among them, and had
no distinct recollection of any map of the road. Another witness, who was road supervisor from 1869 to 1871, testified that
he saw the map of Harewood road and other roads among the
records of the old levy court of the District in its room in the
city. He did not know, however, when the map was prepared
or by whom ; that it embraced several roads, it was a map of
the District of Columbia and the roads in it. Another witness
(William T. Richardson), a civil engineer, testified that under
the direction of the Commissioners of the District he found records and maps of the levy court relating to Harewood road;
that he found some maps, one made in 1 873, in Governor Shepherd's time, and also a copy of the levy court map; that the
maps and records were found in the vault of the old District
building on First street; that he found no other maps or records relating to the levy court or Harewood road; that the
map found was a copy of the original map showing the roads of
the District signed by a president of the levy court and clerk;
that the first map was in pen work, and was an original made
in 1873 under authority of an act of the late legislative assembly of the District. There was another map professing to
have been made in 1857 by Mr. Boscke, while he was an employ6 of the District. The accuracy of the Boscke map was
testified to, and it and the other maps were put in evidence.
The evidence therefore showed what the levy court did as to
surveying, platting and recording the road, and the effect of it
could not be taken from the jury and a presumption substituted
for it. Such presumption might have been given to the jury
as an eleiment of decision in connection with the evidence, and
might have been so given by the court if asked.
The prayer was objectionable for another reason. It assumed that a record of the survey and plat of the road was

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

made and lost. This was a fact in issue, and could not be
assumed. The court left the fact to be deduced from the evidence, telling the jury, however, that they could infer it, although there was no direct evidence of it.
4. The eighth prayer given at the request of the plaintiff was
as follows:
"If the jury believe from the evidence that at the time of
doing the acts complained, which are in evidence, there was a
right of common and public highway in the defendant to a road
of only about twenty-five feet or less in width over the land of
the plaintiffs' testator, and that an excavation in excess of the
defendant's right of highway and of about thirty-three feet in
width was made by the defendant upon the land of plaintiffs'
testator, and believe from the evidence that the defendant so
exceeded its right of highway and excavated gravel on the land
of the plaintiffs' testator, and removed and used the same beyond the limits of said land to repair or improve other public
highways in the District of Columbia without making just
compensation to the owner of the soil or having any condemnation proceedings or exercising its lawful powers aecorlin/ o
law, then the jury are instructed that the defendant would be
liable as a trespasser for so doing, and that the jury must find
for the plaintiff and assess such damages as the evidence shows
would make them whole."
The italics are ours, and they indicate the words upon which
the District especially bases its objection. That objection is
that a pure question of law was submitted to the jury. The
objection is very general, and hardly attains to such specification of an error as can be noticed. However, we have examined the charge of the court, and think what was meant by the
words objected to was sufficiently explained.
5. The eleventh prayer asked by the plaintiff was as follows:
"The burden of proof is upon the defendant to satisfy the
jury that the gravel was obtained incident to the legal exercise
of the power to grade. Such power to be lawful must have
been exercised by the Commissioners jointly. It could not be
exercised by any one of the said Commissioners, as the power
could not in law be delegated. If the gravel obtained and used

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

was not the incident to the exercise of the power to grade, but
was obtained without the lawful exercise of the power to grade,
then the use of the said gravel, as well as the said excavation,
was unlawful, and the defendant has not maintained its plea of
justification.
" tf t1e ev dence shows to the satisfaction of the jury that said
gradingor the removal of said gravel was done under the supervision of the officers and by the employ6s of said defendant, it
will be competent for the jury to presumefrom this fact that it
was authorized and directed by the joint action of the Conmissioners of the defendant, unless there be evidence that satisfies
them that the contrary is the fact."
It is objected that the prayer submitted to the jury a pure
question of law, to wit, whether the gravel was taken as an
incident to the legal exercise of the power to grade. But a
definition accompanied the question. The jury was told that
what was meant by the legal power to grade was a power exercised by the Commissioners jointly, and the court carefully
added that such legal power could be presumed from the supervision of the grading by the officers and employ~s of the District. The prayer is not amenable to the objection made.
6. The twelfth prayer requested by defendants in error, and
given by the trial court with the modifications expressed in
italics, was as follows:
"If the jury believe from the evidence that there was a lane
or road over the land of the plaintiffs' testator, yet if from the
evidence the jury believe that travel over said lane or road
originated for the accommodation of some prior owner or owners
of that tract and the adjoining tract, or either of said tracts,
and of those deriving title from or under such owner or owners
of either or both of said tracts, and believe that said lane or
road was never surveyed, platted or recorded as a public road
or highway, as required by law, and believe that the various
owners of said tract of land by mesne conveyances conveyed
the same from one to the other, with covenants of warranty,
without showing, mentioning or excepting any lane or road
over the same, either in the body of any of these deeds or in
plats annexed to any of them, and believe that the location of

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

said ladne or road or part thereof over the land of the plaintiffs'
testator was changed by Mr. John Agg, a prior owner of said
land, for the reason that he wished it further from his house,
and that he employed and paid the hands who made this change,
and believe that from about 1843 to about the time of the conveyance of May 15, 1857, to the plaintiffs' testator gates were
maintained across said lane or road by the owner or owners of
said tract or their tenants, and that the gate posts of such gates
continued to stand for some time after the gates themselves
wore out or disappeared, and stood there until some time in
1861, after the late war had commenced, and believe that taxes
were assessed by the public authorities upon and paid by the
owners of said land or their tenants upon said tract of land, as
a whole, including land within the limits of said lane or road,
and believe that acts of ownership over the land within the
limits of said lane or road were exercised by the plaintiffs' testator, and believe that said lane or road was not repaired by
the public authorities until after the late civil war, or recognized
by the public authorities as a public road until after the late
civil war, or if the jury believe any of these facts, then the
jury are instructed that these facts or any of them which the
jury may believe would tend to prove that said lane or road
was not a common or public highway, and would tend to rebut
any presumption of its being a comnmnon or public highway, and
any and all such facts, if believed by the jury, are to be considered in connection with the other evidence in the case, and
if the jury upon the whole evidence believe that said lane or
road was not such a highway at the time of the acts complained
of which have been given in evidence, and was not a highway
by dedication, then they should find the issue joined upon the
defendant's third additional plea of highway in favor of the
plaintiffs."
The objection that this prayer left to the jury to decide the
law and the facts of the case is not justified, nor, that it was
held, that if any one of the enumerated facts was proved, the
llarewood road was not a public way. The prayer sunmmarized
the facts in evidence but did not express an opinion as to their
probative force, whether collectively or separately considered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Each fact had some probative quality and value, and it was
proper for the court to say so, "and that any and all such facts,"
as the court remarked, " if believed by the jury, were to be considered in connection with the other evidence in the case."
And the court further said: "If the jury upon the whole evidence believe" [not upon any one fact believe] "that the said
lane or road was not such highway at the time of the facts complained of and was not a highway by dedication," then they
should find that the gravel was not removed from a public
highway, which was the defence made in the third additional
plea of the District.
7. The testator of defendants in error filed a bill for discovery in 1882 on the equity side of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia against the District, its Commissioners,
and two assistants of the Engineer Commissioner. The bill
alleged that he intended to bring an action against the defendants in said bill for the trespasses which constitute the
matter of the present controversy, and after stating with particularity the grounds of discovery submitted interrogatories
to be answered by the defendants, as to the time the acts
were done which were complained of as trespasses, by whom
done, under whose superintendency, by whom paid and out of
what fund the work was paid for, the amount of gravel or
earth dug and where taken, if taken from the limits where
dug, and if any books, accounts, documents or papers were kept
recording or evidencing the facts. Certain of the defendants
made answer under oath to the interrogatories. As to the probative force of the answers the District at the trial of the case
at bar asked the court to instruct the jury as follows :
"The jury are instructed that the plaintiffs are bound by the
answer of the Commissioners and the District of Columbia to
the bill of complaint of their testator [No..7959, equity, Supreme
Court, District of Columbia] offered in evidence by them, and
so far as said answer is responsive to the allegations of said bill
it is the evidence of the plaintiffs themselves, and the jury are
not at liberty to ignore it or find the facts otherwise than in
said answer set forth."
The prayer was refused. Upon what ground, however, does

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. ROBINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

not appear. It might have been refused and could have been,
even if it contained a correct declaration of law, on account of
its general character. It is attempted here to be particularized.
The specification of error is that the court, by refusing the
prayer, held "that the defendants in error were not bound by
the answer of the Commissioners to the bill of discovery filed
by the testator of the defendants in error respecting the bona
fijes of the action of said Commissioners in respect of the alteration of Harewood road and the purpose of such alteration."
Whether the trial court would have given the prayer if it had
been limited to the good faith of the District Commissioners
we cannot know. Presumably not, if it made their answer in
the discovery suit conclusive proof, as claimed in the prayer
which was refused. The greatest strength of proof attributable to an answer under oath in a suit in equity is that it cannot
be overcome by a single witness unaccompanied by some corroborating circumstance. That it has even that strength in a
common-law court we are not called upon to decide. It certainly has not conclusive strength. Lyon v. Miller, 6 Grattan,
427, 438, 439; 1 Pomeroy's Equity Jur. ยง 208. The prayer
requested was therefore properly refused.
8. At the request of the plaintiff the court instructed the
jury as follows:
"If the issues joined upon both of the defendant's pleas,
which issues are submitted to the jury, are found by them in
favor of the plaintiffs, then they are instructed that they may
assess such damages in favor of the plaintiffs as they believe
from the evidence would make the plaintiffs whole, and may
[include] enhance the damages by any sum not greater than the
interest on the amount from August 28, 1882, when this action
was brought, to the time of this trial [as part of the plaintiffs'
damages], if the jury [see fit to include such interest as damages, and may consider the time during which the plaintiffs
and their testator were kept out of their money between those
dates] shallfind from the evidence that such allowance would be
reasonable and just."
The objection is to the interest. It is not claimed that in
cases of tort interest may not be allowed in the discretion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury. It is asserted that under the circumstances of the
case the court should not have submitted the claim of interest
to the jury. But it was the plaintiffs' right to have invoked
the exercise of the discretion of the jury, and the circumstances
of the case were to be considered by it in exercising such discretion, and presumably were considered.
9. One of the issues in the case was whether the gravel was
taken as an incident to grading the road or for use on certain
streets in the District. There was also an issue as to the width
of the road and the right to take gravel outside of that width.
Prayers were asked on those issues. The ninth prayer of the
District was modified by the court and given as modified as
follows (the additions of the court are in italics):
"[Unless] If the jury shall believe from the evidence that
Harewood road at the point of the alleged trespass was a public highway, and that the gravel was taken in pursuance of the
power to grade and not for the sole purpose of obtaining gravel

for use elsewhere, then if they find for the plaintiffs in this case
they are instructed that the measure of damages is the value
to the plaintiff's testator of such gravel as is shown by the evidence to have been taken by the defendant from the plaintiffs'
testator's land exterior to the lines of Harewood road, and such
damages, if any, to the residue of the land as was occasioned by
the removal of the gravel exterior to the boundaries of the road."
The criticism of the court's action is that it allowed the jury

to consider the motive of the District in grading the road. We
think counsel misapprehended the purpose of the modifications
of the prayer. It did not question the motives of the District
authorities nor did it assume anything that was not within the
issues of the case. The right to take gravel within the limits
of the road which might be established by the evidence and in
the exercise of grading was conceded. The right to take gravel
outside the limits of the road or not for the purpose of grading
it, was denied, and properly denied. It was an easement in
the land, not the fee to the land, which the public acquired by
the road and the measure of the easement was the width of
the road. The right to grade and improve was incident to
the easement, but the easement gave no other right in the soil

NEELY v. HENKEL (NO. 1).
Syllabus.

or to the soil. The right to remove soil from one part of a
road to another part may be conceded. And it has been decided such right extends to other streets forming parts of the
same system. Of this, however, we are not required to express
an opinion, as it is not involved in the prayer.
Finding no error in the record,
The judgment is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in the decision.

INEELY v. HENKEL (No. 1).
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 387. Argued December 10, 11, 1900.-Decided January 14, 1901.
There is no merit in the contention that Article 401 of the Penal Code of
Cuba, which provides that the public employ6, who, by reason of his
office, has in his charge public funds or property, and takes or consents
that others should take any part therefrom, shall be punished, applies
only to persons in the public employ of Spain. Spain, having withdrawn
from the island, its successor has become "the public," to which the
code, remaining unrepealed, now refers.
Within the meaning of the act of June 6, 1900, c. 793, 31 Stat. 656, providing for the surrender of persons committing defined crimes within a
foreign country occupied by or under the control of the United States,
and fleeing to the United States, or any Territory thereof, or the District
of Columbia, Cuba is foreign territory which cannot be regarded in any
constitutional, legal or international sense, as a part of the territory of
the United States; and this is not affected by the fact that it is under a
Military Governor, appointed by and representing the President in the
work of assisting the inhabitants of the island in establishing a government of their own.
As between the United States and Cuba that island is territory held in
trust for its inhabitants, to whom it rightfully belongs, and to whose
exclusive control it will be surrendered when a stable government shall
have been established by their voluntary action.
The act of June 6, 1900, is not unconstitutional in that it does not secure to
the accused when surrendered to a foreign country for trial all the rights,

