DANVILLE WATER COMPANY v. DANVILLE CITY. 619
Opinion of the Court.

DANVILLE WATER COMPANY v. DANVILLE CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 373. Submitted November 12, 1900.-Decided March 25, 1901.

The judgment below is affirmed on the authority of Freeport Water Co. v.
Fr-eeport City, ante, 587.

THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey and Mr. W. W. Davie8 for
plaintiff in error.
.1r. John H. Lewman and 2r. George F. Rearic for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

The parties to this action were respectively plaintiff and defendant in the courts of the State, and we will so denominate
them. The plaintiff is a private corporation, and the defendant
is a municipal corporation organized and existing under the
general laws of the State. The action was brought by the
plaintiff to recover the sum of $5000 alleged to be due for the
rental of certain fire hydrants.
The cause of action relied on is based on an ordinance passed
on the 9th of November, 1882, by the defendant, granting the
plaintiff the privilege of constructing and maintaining waterworks for supplying the city of Danville, Illinois, with water.
The ordinance provided in detail for the character of the works
and the supply, the rates to consumers, whether furnished by
meter or otherwise, and the purchase by defendant of the works
at the expiration of five, ten and twenty years, and at the expiration of thirty years of any renewed term.
Section 8 and section 14 are respectively as follows:
"In consideration of the benefits which will be derived by

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the said city and its inhabitants from the construction and operation of the said waterworks, and in further consideration of
the water supply hereby secured for public uses, and as the
inducement to said water company to accept the provisions of
this ordinance and contract, and to enter upon the construction
of said waterworks, the rights and privileges hereby granted
to and vested in said water company shall remain in force and
effect for thirty years from the passage of this ordinance; and
for the same consideration and as the same inducement, the
city of Danville hereby rents of the Danville Water Company,
for the uses hereinafter stated, one hundred fire hydrants of
the character hereinafter described, and for and during the term
of thirty years from passage of this ordinance, and agrees to
locate them promptly along the line of the street mains, on
demand of said water company, and on submission by it to said
city of a plan of the location of said street mains, and agrees
to use the said hydrants carefully and to pay said water company for any injury which may happen to any of them when
used by any officer, servant or member of the fire department
of said city, and agrees to pay rent for said one hundred hydrants at the rate of seventy-five dollars each per year, and
agrees to pay during the unexpired term of said ordinance and
privilege, for any additional fire hydrants which city may hereafter locate at the rate of sixty-two and fifty one hundredths
dollars each, per year, for the next forty additional hydrants,
and for all fire hydrants in excess of one hundred and forty at
the rate of fifty dollars each, per year; all of which sum shall
be paid by said city to said water company, beginning from
the dates when each of such hydrants shall be put into successful operation, in quarter-yearly instalments on the first days
of February, May, August and November of each year, and
terminating upon the expiration of said term of thirty years, or
upon the purchase of said works and their privileges and property by the said city.
"This ordinance shall become binding as a contract on the
said city of Danville in the event that the said Danville Water
Company shall, within ten days from the passage and publication of this ordinance, file with the city clerk of said city its

DANVILLE WATER COMPANY v. DANVILLE CITY. 621
Opinion of the Court.

written acceptance of the terms, obligations and conditions of
this ordinance, and upon such acceptance this ordinance shall
constitute the contract, and shall be the measure of the rights
and liabilities of the said city and the said water company."
The acceptance was duly filed by plaintiff. On the first of
May, 1883, another ordinance was passed amending the first
ordinance, for the construction of the works, the streets where
the mains should be laid, and the place where the fire hydrants
should be put, and how constructed.
Section 2 provided as follows:
"This ordinance shall become binding as a part of the contract existing between the city of Danville and the Danville
Water Company in the event that said water company, shall,
within ten days from the passage and publication of this ordinance, file with the city clerk of said city its written acceptance
of it."
Between the 8th of June, 1893, and the 18th of October, 1894,
twelve other ordinances were passed, requiring the extension of
the mains of the water system to other streets and the erection
of fifty-seven additional fire hydrants; all of the ordinances
were declared binding as contracts upon acceptance of the plaintiff, and all were accepted. The rental of the hydrants was
fixed, as to some of them, at $62.50 per annum, and others at
$50 and $40 per annum. In the ordinance fixing the latter sums
it was provided that nothing therein should "operate to affect
in any way any of the provisions of the ordinance heretofore
passed by said city relative to the Danville Water Company except to the extent of the reduction of the rental of the additional hydrants therein provided and hydrants thereafter to be
provided."
There was an allegation that plaintiff did all things required
of it in the construction of the system, and put in all mains and
hydrants and kept them supplied with water.
The pleas of the defendant admitted that the sum of $1930
was due, but denied liability for anything over that sum, because the rental for the hydrants had been reduced by an ordinance passed by the city January 17, 1895, which was entitled
"An ordinance prescribing the maximum rates and charges for

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the supply of water furnished by the Danville Water Company
of the city of Danville." The ordinance recited that after a
careful comparison of water rates and charges in other cities it
was found that those of the Danville company were "unjust,
excessive and unreasonable." And that whereas under the act
of the State approved June 6, 1891, in force July 1, 1891, and
under "other fully competent and complete legal authority,"
the city was empowered to prescribe by ordinance maximum
rates for water furnished by the Danville company; and whereas,
after full investigation the members of the council believed the
rates prescribed were just and reasonable, a schedule or scale of
rates was ordained to take effect on the first of May, 1895. The
rental of fire hydrants was reduced for the first one hundred
and forty to a uniform rate of $50 per annum; for all others
then rented and others which should be rented, $40 per annum.
For certain uses of water which had been theretofore furnished
free by the plaintiff a rate was fixed, to be paid by the city.
Provision was made for the appearance by the city attorney if
the plaintiff should desire to apply to the circuit court of the
county for a review of the rates.
There was an allegation of notice of the passage of the ordinance to the plaintiff, and the prior ordinances under which plaintiff claimed an irrevocable contract were at the time of the passage
of said ordinances in excess of a reasonable compensation for the
water supplied, and were at the time of suit "unjust, unreasonable and excessive."
The plaintiff demurred to each of the defendant's pleas, and
the demurrer was sustained. The defendant asked that the demurrer be carried back to the declaration, and elected to stand
by its pleas. Judgment was entered for the plaintiff in the
sum of $2701, motion to arrest, which was denied, and the case
was then taken to the Supreme Court of the State, by which
court the judgment was reversed, and the cause was remanded
for further proceedings in accordance with the views expressed
in the opinion filed in the cause.
On the return of the case to the circuit court the defendant
by leave of the court filed additional pleas, to which a demurrer
was sustained. With this action of the court we have no concern.

DANVILLE WATER COMPANY v. DANVILLE CITY. 623
Opinion of the Court.

In accordance with the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
State the demurrer of the plaintiff was overruled as to the first
and second pleas of the defendant, and sustained as to the third.
The plaintiff elected to stand by its demurrer, and judgment
was entered for the sum of $1930 and all costs of suit. On appeal to the Supreme Court it was sustained, the court expressing
the following opinion, (186 Illinois, 326):
"This case has practically been before us on two former occasions, the parties then being reversed.
"Counsel for appellant concede the judgment from which this
appeal is taken is in exact conformity with the judgments and
opinions in the former cases, and that no new question or matter has intervened since the former bearings here. Manifestly
the only purpose of this appeal is to obtain a final judgment in
this court to enable appellant to take a further appeal, if it should
desire to do so.
"Adhering as we do to the reasoning and conclusions announced in Danville Water Co. v. Danville City, 78 Illinois, 229,
and Same v. Same, 180 Illinois, 235, on the authority of these
cases this judgment will be affirmed."
The chief justice of the State allowed this writ of error.
The questions presented by this record are the same passed
on in Fi'reeport Water Co. v. Freeport City, ante, 587, and depends upon the same statutes. Upon the authority of that case
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
.Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom concurred MR. JUSTmCE
BREWER, MR. JUSTICE BROWN and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, dis-

senting.
It will be seen from the opinion of the court that this case
differs in no material particular from that of the Freeport Water
Co. v. Freeport City, just decided. Under the sanction of the
same statutes considered in the Freeport case, the defendant in
error, the city of Danville, contracted with the plaintiff in
error, the water company, for the period authorized by the
statute, and stipulated as to the rates to be paid for a public

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

water supply. These rates were adhered to until, under the authority of the statute of the State of Illinois passed in 1891, referred to in the opinion in the Freeport case, the defendant in
error reduced the rates below the contract price. It now asserts in this record that it possessed the power to do so.
For the reasons stated by me for dissenting from the opinion
and decree in the Freeport case, I dissent from the opinion and
decree in the present case.

ROGERS PARK WATER COMPANY v. FERGUS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 56. Argued and submitted October 31, 1900.-Decided March 25, 1901.

So far as the contentions in this case are the same as those passed upon in
FreeportWater Company v. Freeport City, ante, 587, and in Danville Water
Company v. Danville City, ante, 619, they are governed by those cases.
A governmental function in a statute granting powers to a municipal corporation cannot be held to have been granted away by statutory provisions
which are doubtful or ambiguous.
There is no complaint in this case that the rates fixed by the ordinance of
1897, passed by the city council of Chicago, were unreasonable; and as
the plaintiff in error relies strictly on a contractual right, and as it has
no such right, the judgment below is affirmed.

Tuis is a petition for a writ of mandamus which was brought
by the defendant in error on the 13th of December, 1897, in
the circuit court of Cook County, State of Illinois, against the
plaintiff in error, to compel it to furnish him water at rates fixed
by an ordinance enacted by the city of Chicago.
The defence is that such ordinance impairs the obligation of
the contract which plaintiff in error claims to have with the
village of Rogers Park before its annexation to the city of
Chicago, as hereinafter mentioned.
The village of Rogers Park was from November 12, 1888,
and until April 4, 1893, a municipal corporation organized un-

