RICE v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.

RICE v. AMES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 420. Submitted December 17, 1900.-Decided February 25, 1901.

An appeal lies directly to this court from a judgment of the District Court
in a habeas corpus case, where the constitutionality of a law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of a treaty is drawn in
question.
A complaint before a commissioner in a foreign extradition case, if made
solely upon information and belief, is bad; but it need not be made upon
the personal knowledge of the complainant, if he annex to such complaint
a copy of the indictment found in the foreign country, or the deposition
of a witness having personal knowledge of the facts, taken under the
statute.
Where the first count of a complaint charged the offence solely upon information and belief, and the subsequent counts purported on their face
to aver offences within the personal knowledge of complainant, it was held
that the insufficiency of the first count did not impair the sufficiency of
the others, and that the complaint vested jurisdiction in the commissioner to issue his warrant.
Continuances of the examination may be granted in the discretion of the
commissioner, and, in this particular, he is not controlled by a state
statute limiting such continuances to ten days.
The act of Congress authorizing Circuit Courts to appoint commissioners
is constitutional.

TIs was an appeal by Fred Lee Rice, Frank Rutledge and
Thomas ,Jones from an order of the District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois, denying their application for a
discharge upon a writ of habeas coi,:pus, the object of which
writ was to test the validity of certain proceedings against the
appellants, taken before a commissioner for that district, specially authorized to take jurisdiction of proceedings for the
extradition of persons charged with crimes, under treaties with
foreign governments.
The proceedings before the commissioner are set forth in a
bill of exceptions, signed by the district judge.

OCTOBER TERM. 1900.
Statement of the Case.

The first warrant for the arrest of the appellants was issued
June 2, 1900, upon complaint made upon information and belief, by "a police officer of the city of Chicago," and an affidavit of a police detective of the city of Toronto, Canada, also
upon information and belief, charging defendants with sundry
crimes committed both at Aurora and at Toronto, in the Province of Ontario. Pursuant to this warrant appellants were taken
by the respondent, Ames, as United States marshal, out of the
custody of the city police, by whom they had been arrested the
day before, and brought before the commissioner. Proceedings were adjourned until June 4, when the case was dismissed,
and a new warrant issued upon the complaint of Albert Cuddy,
police detective of the city of Toronto, also upon information
and belief. Defendants moved to quash this complaint and
warrant by reason of the fact that the complaint was made
upon information and belief, which was denied, and the proceedings adjourned until June 14. Defendants were committed
for further hearing. Upon that day, it appearing that the proceedings had been taken only for the purpose of provisional
apprehension and detention, the case was dismissed, and a new
and final complaint made by William Greer, a government
detective for the Province of Ontario, duly authorized by the
Attorney General of the province to act as the agent of the
government in the prosecution of extradition proceedings.
This complaint contained four counts, the first of which
charged the defendants, upon information and belief, with stealing from the post office building, in the town of Aurora, a
quantity of Canadian postage stamps, $55 in money and certain
certificates in mining stock. The other three counts, in which
the charge was made absolutely and not upon information and
belief, charged the defendants first, with stealing a horse, cart
and harness; second, with breaking and entering a private bank
in the town of Aurora with intent to steal, and also with the
larceny of certain money in the bank; and third, with breaking
into a shop on Queen street in the city of Toronto. A new
warrant was issued upon this complaint, and the examination
adjourned until June 25, at which time defendants were brought
before the commissioner and motion made for their discharge

RICE v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

for want of jurisdiction, and for insufficiency of the complaint.
This motion being denied, the case went to a hearing upon
certain documents certified by the American consul, and a large
number of depositions of witnesses which were not sent up with
the record. The examination was continued for several days,
and finally upon July 10 the commissioner found there was
probable cause to believe the defendants guilty, and ordered
them to stand committed to await the action of the proper
authorities.
Whereupon, and upon the same day, petitioners sued out this
writ of habeas corpus from the District Court, and from the
order of that court, denying their discharge, they took an appeal directly to this court.
3r. S. 11 Trude for appellants.
3r.Lynden Evans for appellee.
MR. JUsTICE BRowN, after making the above statement of the
case, delivered the opinion of the court.
1. Motion is made to dismiss the appeal upon the ground that
there is no provision of law allowing an appeal in this class of
cases. Prior to the Court of Appeals act of 1891, provision was
made for an appeal to the Circuit Court in habeas corpus cases
"from the final decision of any court, justice or judge inferior to
the Circuit Court." Rev. Stat. sec. 763; and from the final decision of such Circuit Court an appeal might be taken to this court.
Rev. Stat. ยง 764, as amended March 3, 1885, c. 353, 23 Stat. 437.
The law remained in this condition until the Court of Appeals act of March, 1891, was passed, the fifth section of which
permits an appeal directly from the District Court to this court
"in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty made
under its authority, is drawn in question." In this connection
the appellee insists that an appeal will not lie, but that a writ
of error is the proper remedy. In support of this we are cited
to the case of Buceklin v. United States, 159 U. S. 680, in which

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the appellant was convicted of the crime of perjury, and sought
a review of the judgment against him by an appeal, which we
held must be dismissed, upon the ground that criminal cases
were reviewable here only by writ of error. Obviously that
case has no application to this, since under the prior sections of
the Revised Statutes, above cited, which are taken from the act
of 1842, an appeal was allowed in habeas eopus cases. The
observation made in the Bueklin case that "there was no purpose by that act to abolish the general distinction, at common
law, between an appeal and a writ of error," may be supplemented by saying that it was no purpose of the act of 1891 to
change the forms of remedies theretofore pursued. In re Lennon, 150 U. S. 393 ; Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651 ; Gonzales v. Cunningham, 164 U. S. 612. As a construction of the
extradition treaty with Great Britain is involved, the appeal
was properly taken to this court.
2. The first assignment of error is to the effect that the commissioner issuing the warrant had no jurisdiction, because the
complaint of Greer was upon information and belief, and not
such as was required by the treaty, or by section 5270 of the
Revised Statutes. The first two complaints, which were dismissed, as well as the first count of the complaint under which
the proceedings were finally had, were obviously insufficient,
since the charges were made solely upon information and belief,
and no attempt was made even to set forth the sources of information or the grounds of affiant's belief. This is bad, even in
extradition proceedings, which are entitled to as much liberality
of construction in furtherance of the objects of the treaty as is
possible in cases of a criminal nature. Nor is it saved by the
fact that Greer described himself as government detective for
the Province of Ontario, and duly authorized by the Attorney
General to act as the agent of the government to prosecute extradition proceedings. Ex parte Smith, 3 McLean, 121, 135;
Exparte Lane, 6 Fed. Rep. 34; In re Young ffg. Co. (1900),
2 Ch. 753.
A citizen ought not to be deprived of his personal liberty
upon an allegation which, upon being sifted, may amount to
nothing more than a suspicion. While authorities upon this

RICE v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

subject are singularly few, it is clear that a person ought not
to be arrested upon a criminal charge upon less direct allegations than are necessary to authorize the arrest of a fraudulent
or absconding debtor. &nith v. -Luce,14 Wend. 237; Z[aller
qf Blis, 7 Hill, 187; Proctorv. Proat, 17 Mich. 473. So, too,
in applications for injunctions, the rule is that the material facts
must be directly averred under oath by a person having knowledge of such facts. Waddell v. Bruen, 4 Ed. Chan. 671; Armstrong v. Sanford, 7 Minnesota, 49.
We do not wish, however, to be understood as holding that,
in extradition proceedings, the complaint must be sworn to by
persons having actual knowledge of the offence charged. This
would defeat the whole object of the treaty, as we are bound
to assume that no foreign government possesses greater power
than our own to order its citizens to go to another country to
institute legal proceedings. This is obviously impossible. The
ordinary course is to send an officer or agent of the government
for that purpose, and Rev. Stat. sec. 5271, makes special provision that "in every case of complaint and of a hearing upon
the return of the warrant of arrest, any depositions, warrants,
or other papers offered in evidence, shall be admitted and received for the purpose of such hearing if they shall be properly
and legally authenticated so as to entitle themn to be received
as evidence of the criminality of the person so apprehended, by
the tribunals of the foreign country from which the accused
party shall have escaped, and copies of any such depositions,
warrants or other papers, shall, if authenticated according to
the law of such foreign country, be in like manner received as
evidence," of which authentication the certificate of the diplomatic or consular officer of the United States shall be sufficient.
This obviates the necessity which might otherwise exist of confronting the accused with the witnesses against him. Now, it
would obviously be inconsistent to hold that depositions, which
are admissible upon the hearing, should not also be admitted
for the purpose of vesting jurisdiction in the commissioner to
issue the warrant. Indeed, the words of the statute, "in every
case of complaint," seem to contemplate this very use of them.
If the officer of the foreign government has no personal knowl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

edge of the facts, he may with entire propriety make the complaint upon information and belief, stating the sources of his
information and the grounds of his belief, and annexing to the
complaint a properly certified copy of any indictment or equivalent proceeding, which may have been found in the foreign
country, or a copy of the depositions of witnesses having actual
knowledge of the facts, taken under the treaty and act of Congress. This will afford ample authority to the commissioner
for issuing the warrant.
But while, as already observed, the first count is bad, by reason of its unsupported allegations upon information and belief,
the second count contains a wholly different charge of larceny
of a horse, cart and harness; the third, of breaking and entering a private bank in Aurora; and the fourth, of breaking and
entering a building in Toronto. Each of these counts charges
a distinct offence, and each purports on its face to be made upon
the personal knowledge of the complainant. While it is possible that he may have intended to make all these charges upon
information and belief, the natural intendment of the last three
counts is that the affiant swore to facts within his personal
knowledge. If it be true, as stated by writers upon criminal
procedure, (Bishop, Crim. Proced. ยง 429,) that each count must
be sufficient in itself, and averments in one cannot aid defects
in another, it would seem to follow by parity of reasoning that
defects in one ought not to impair the sufficiency of another.
Upon the whole we think the complaint is sufficient.
3. By the second assignment, petitioners insist that the commissioner lost jurisdiction in the premises by continuing the proceedings from June 14 to June 25, a period of eleven days, in supposed violation of section 67, article 7 of chapter 79 of the Revised Statutes, of Illinois, governing continuances by justices of
the peace and examining magistrates, which enacts that " the
justice before the commencement of the trial may continue
the case not ewceedinr ten days at any one time on consent of
the parties or on any good cause shown." It is insisted that
this statute controls proceedings before commissioners of the
United States in extradition cases, by virtue of the treaty and
of the several acts of Congress prescribing the duties of corn

RICE v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

missioners. The treaty only provides in article 6, (26 Stat. 1508,
1510,) that "the extradition of fugitives under the provisions
of this convention and of the said Tenth Article" (of the treaty
of August 9, 1842) "shall be carried out in the United States
and in Her Majesty's dominions respectively, in conformity
with the laws regulating extradition for the time being in force
in the surrendering States." This evidently contemplates the
laws of the United States regulating extradition, and has no
reference whatever to the laws of the particular State within
which the proceedings are taken.
Provision is made by Rev. Stat. see. 627 for the appointment
of commissioners of the Circuit Court, now called United States
Commissioners, act May 28, 1896, c. 252, see. 19, 29 Stat. 140,
184, who shall exercise such powers as may be conferred upon
them. By Rev. Stat. see. 727, they are vested with such authority
"to hold to security of the peace and for good behavior in cases
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
as may be lawfully exercised by any judge or justice of the
peace of the respective States, in cases cognizable before them."
This evidently defines the extent of their powers and not the
mode in which such powers are to be exercised. By section
1014, they are vested with the power to arrest, imprison or bail
offenders "for any crime or offence against the United States"
"agreeable to the usual mode of process against offenders in
such State," that is, the State wherein the offender "may be
found." That this has no application to continuances before
commissioners in extradition proceedings is evident, first, by
the fact that the section is confined to crimes or offences against
the United States, and, second, because it refers only to the
usual mode of process against offenders in such State, and not
to the incidents of the examination. To hold that the commissioner is confined in the matter of continuances to the methods
prescribed for justices of the peace and other magistrates of
the particular State would be utterly destructive of his power
in cases arising beyond the seas, where weeks might be required
to obtain the attendance of witnesses, or the procurement of
properly authenticated depositions for use upon the examination. Clearly there is nothing either in the treaty or the stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

utes requiring commissioners to conform to the state practice
in that regard. The only requirement seems to be that arising
from the tenth section of the Ashburton Treaty, that the fugitive shall only be surrendered "upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive
or person so charged, shall be found, would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial, if the crime or offence had
there been committed."
4. The fifth assignment questions the constitutionality of
Rev. Stat. sec. 5270, first, because it does not provide for any
mode of procedure relating to continuances, change of venue,
bail, etc., before commissioners appointed in extradition matters; second, because Congress had no power to confer upon a
District Judge of the United States authority to create such inferior courts; third, because Congress has not created such court
and established its jurisdiction. We are unable to appreciate
the force of this objection. Congress having provided for commissioners, who are not judges in the constitutional sense, had
a perfect right under article 2, section 2, paragraph 2 of the Constitution, to invest the District or Circuit Courts with the power
of appointment. The only qualification required of a commissioner to act in extradition cases is that suggested by Rev. Stat.
section 5270, that he shall be "authorized so to do by any of
the courts of the United States." We know of no authority
holding that Congress may not vest the courts with this power,
and we are reluctant to create one.
The other assignments question the power of the commissioner to deny bail, which becomes immaterial here, as well as
the finding of the District Judge upon the facts, which is not
examinable upon a writ of habeas corpus. There is nothing,
too, in the additional assignment that the commissioner took
the matter under advisement and abused his discretion in the
matter of continuance, of which we see no evidence.
There are also noticed in appellants' brief certain objections
to the complaint, which might have been successfully urged
aoainst a formal indictment for the same offence, but which do
not constitute "a plain error not assigned or specified," of which,
under rule 21 of this court, subdivision 4, we may take notice

WHELESS v. ST. LOUIS et al.
Statement of the Case.

at our option in the absence of a special assignment. The technicalities of an indictment are not requisite in a complaint.
State v. tlolmes, 28 Connecticut, 230; Commonwealth v. -Keenan, 139 Mass. 193; ]?awson v. State, 19 Connecticut 292;
KAeeler v. Xilledge, 24 N. J. Law, 142; Williams v. State, 88
Ala. 80; State v. Xc'Laughlin, 35 Kan. 650.
Petitioners have no just reason to complain of the action of
the District Court in remanding them to the custody of the
marshal, and its judgment is therefore

Affirmed.

WHELESS v. ST. LOUIS et at.
APPEAL FROM THE OIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 161. Argued and submitted January 31, February 1,1901.-Decided February 25, 1901.
When owners of lots in a city file a bill to restrain the assessment against
them of the costs and expenses of improving a public street, on which
the lots abut, the matter in dispute is the amount of the assessment
levied, or which may be levied, against the lot or lots of each of the
complainants respectively.
And in such circumstances no distinction can be recognized between a case
where the assessment has not in fact been made, and a case where it has
already been made.
As neither one of these complainants will be required to pay two thousand
dollars in respect of lots involved, the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction is affirmed.

this case the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was in issue,
question of jurisdiction was certified.
the
and
The question was whether the matter in dispute exceeded,
exclusive of interest and costs, the sum of two thousand dollars.
The Circuit Court held that jurisdiction did not exist, and dismissed the bill. 96 Fed. Rep. 865.
The suit was brought by Joseph Wheless and others against
the city of St. Louis, the president of the Board of Public ImIN

