CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILWAY CO.
v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 35.

Argued October 22, 23, 1900.-Decided January 7, 1901.

An action was begun in a state court for taxes. Defendants pleaded in bar,
but did not set up a Federal question. The case resulted in a judgment
for a part of the taxes; was carried to the Supreme Court which passed
upon all the issues, reversed the judgment, and practically held that defendants were liable for all the taxes, and remanded the case for a new
trial. Defendants then set up a Federal question, which the court upon
the new trial refused to consider, and the Supreme Court affirmed its
action. Held that the Federal question was " specially setup and claimed"
too late to be available as a defence.
As it appeared from the record in this case and the opinion of the court,
that the defendants relied upon certain charter rights, which they insisted had been impaired by subsequent legislative action; and the Supreme Court held that no such rights existed, it was held that it sufficiently appeared that there was a Federal question necessarily involved
in the case, and not only must have been, but actually was, passed upon
by the Supreme Court.
It is only cases arising under the third clause of Rev. Stat. see. 709, where
a Federal right, title, privilege or immunity is claimed, that the question
must be specially set up. Under the second clause it is sufficient, if the
validity of a state statute or authority is necessarily involved in the disposition of the case.
Vo1. CLXxX-1
(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
The Mississippi constitution of 1890 provided that every new "1grant of
corporate franchises" should be subject to the provisions of the constitution. Where several railroads were consolidated, subsequent to the
adoption of this constitution, by a contract, under which the constituent
companies were to go out of existence, their officers to resign their trusts
in favor of officers of the new company, their boards of directors supplanted by another board, the stock of the constituent companies to be
surrendered and new stock taken therefor, or, in lieu of that, that the
old stock should be recognized as the stock of the new company, and that
the road should be operated by men holding their commissions from the
new company, it was held that a new grant of corporate franchises had
been made, and the consolidated company was subject to the new constitution.
Where two companies agree together to consolidate their stock, issue new
certificates, take a new name, elect a new board of directors, and the
constituent companies are to cease their functions, a new corporation is
thereby formed subject to existing laws.

THis case originated in an action at law begun December 7,
1893, in the circuit court for the first district of Mississippi,
by Wirt Adams, revenue agent, suing for the use of the State
and of the counties through which the defendant railways pass,
against the Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company,
incorporated under an act of the legislature of Mississippi of
February 17, 1882, and also against the Illinois Central Railroad Company, as successors in interest by consolidation, of a
number of other railways, to recover taxes assessed by the railroad commission of that State for the year 1892.
Exhibits annexed to the declaration showed that the Yazoo
and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company, as now constituted,
was the result of a consolidation made October 24, 1892, between a company of the same name, chartered as above stated,
February 17, 1882, and the Louisville, New Orleans and Texas
Railway Company, which latter company was itself formed by
a consolidation made August 12, 1884, of the Tennessee Southern Railroad Company, the Memphis and Vicksburg Railroad
Company, the New Orleans, Baton Rouge, Vicksburg and Memphis Railroad Company, and the New Orleans and Mississippi
Valley Railroad Company.
On December 27, 1893, a plea was filed by the Illinois Central Railroad Company, denying certain of the allegations in

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

3

Statement of the Case.

the declaration; and a separate plea was filed by the Yazoo and
Mississippi Valley Railroad Company, claiming in its own favor
the benefit of the charter of the Louisville, New Orleans and
Texas Railroad Company exempting such company from the
assessment of these taxes by reason of the payment of the same
in the construction of its road, and also denying material allegations of the declaration. No Federal question appeared in
either of these pleas. A demurrer to these pleas having been
overruled, replications were filed.
On December 18, 1894, another action was begun against the
same defendants for the taxes of 1893 and 1894, and on January 1, 1896, another for the taxes of 1895. An order was
made consolidating these actions.
The three cases thus consolidated came on for trial before a
jury and resulted in a verdict and judgment, July 25, 1896, in
favor of the plaintiff for the taxes of 1895, and in favor of the
defendants for the taxes of 1892, 1893 and 1894. Both parties
moved for a new trial, which was denied. Both parties appealed
to the Supreme Court, but neither assigned a ruling upon a
Federal question as error. The Supreme Court reversed the
judgment of the court below and remanded the case for a new
trial. 77 Mississippi, 194. The court, June 20, 1898, filed a
summary of its holdings to the effect, first, that the case of the
Natchez, Jackson &c. Riailroad Comnpany v. Lambert, 70 Mississippi, 779, which apparently had been set up as res judicata,
was an estoppel only as to taxes for the year 1892, on property
originally belonging to the Natchez, Jackson and Columbus
Railroad Company in Adams County, but not upon other property, or as to the taxes for other years; second, that the Yazoo
and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company was a new corporation taking its life from the date of the consolidation, and
overruling the Lambert case to the contrary; third, that the
twenty-first section of the Mobile and Northwestern Railroad
Company's charter was an effort to secure an irrepealable grant
of exemption, was in violation of the constitution of 1869, and
that it would have been a violation even if it had not been
irrepealable; and the case of .Mississippi .p ills v. Cook, 56 Mississippi, 40, to the contrary was overruled. 77 Mississippi, 305.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

A motion to strike out this "summary of holdings" was denied
November 28, 1898. 77 Mississippi, 302.
Meantime two new actions bad been begun in the circuit
court for the taxes of 1896 and 1897, which were also consolidated with the others.
On July 4, 1898, the mandate of the Supreme Court reversing the judgment of the court below was filed in the circuit
court. Meantime, however, and on June 27, 1898, defendants
filed a petition and bond for a removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States upon the ground that the case
arose under the Constitution and laws of the United States.
This petition was also denied July 4, upon the day the mandate
was filed.
Thereupon each of the defendants, July 6, 1898, filed special
pleas to the declaration, setting forth at great length the exemption claimed under the charters of their constituent companies, and alleging that such exemption constituted a contract
which had been impaired by the action of the State. Motion
was made by the plaintiff to strike out certain of these pleas,
viz., the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh, as constituting
no defence to the action, which was granted by the court, and
all of such pleas, except the seventh, which was withdrawn,
were stricken from the files. Whereupon the defendants, "to
meet the new aspect put upon the case by the decision of the
Supreme Court herein rendered on June 20, 1898," withdrew
"their joint plea filed by them prior to such decision, and all
other pleas filed before that decision," and also withdrew the
two pleas filed by them respectively at this term, (No. 2,) and
declined to plead further herein. They did not, however, withdraw the pleas which had been stricken out by the court. A
judgment was entered the same day nil dicit against the defendants for the amount sued for in said consolidated case,
amounting in all to $548,676.99. The case was again appealed
to the Supreme Court and a new opinion rendered February 20,
1899, reiterating its former views and affirming the judgment
of the court below. 77 Mississippi, 315. Whereupon defendants sued out this writ of error.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

5

Opinion of the Court.

Ar. William D. Guthrie and .Mr.Edward Mayes for plaintiffs in error. Mr. James Fentress, iXr. Noel Gale and Mr.
J. M. Dickinson were on their brief.
XP. R. C. Beokett for defendant in error. Mr. Frank A.
Critz and Mr. J. A. P. Campbell were on his brief.
JUSTICE BROWN, after making the above statement of the
nIR.
case, delivered the opinion of the court.

Motion was made to dismiss this writ of error upon the
grounds: First, that the Federal question was not raised until
after the decision of the Supreme Court on June 20, 1898.
Second, that the action of the defendants in withdrawing their
pleas and permitting a judgment nil dicit to go against them,
because the circuit court had struck from the files their additional pleas attempting to set up a Federal question, was an
admission that they had no defence upon the facts of the case,
and deprived them of any right to insist upon a Federal question. Third, that the petition for removal was not made until
after the case bad been tried in the state Supreme Court, and
reversed and remanded. No claim of error in the action of
the state court in this last particular was made in this court.
Indeed, the point seems to have been abandoned. Fourth, that
the decision of the state Supreme Court on the first appeal,
that the alleged exemption, if it existed at all, was lost by the
consolidation of October 24, 1892, raised no Federal question.
Several other reasons are assigned for the motion, but they are
either addressed to the merits of the case, or become immaterial in the view we have taken of those herein specified.
1. Was the Federal question raised too late? The special
pleas setting up distinctly the Federal question were filed after
the case had been decided by the Supreme Court, its mandate
had gone down to the circuit court, and the case was ready
for a new trial. As already stated, certain of these pleas were
stricken out upon motion of the plaintiff as constituting no defence to the action, and all the pleas, except such as had been
stricken out by the court, were then withdrawn, and a judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ment nil d;cit entered. On the case being again carried to
the Supreme Court, that court held that the action of the court
below "in striking out the special pleas was correct, for the
obvious reasons that they presented no defence to the action,
in whole or in part. The former opinion of the court in this
case settled definitely and conclusively all the issues involved,
and the special pleas are in effect nothing else than an effort
to have the circuit court disregard that opinion. The futility
of that sort of pleading needs no sort of comment. These matters of practice and procedure, and all the other assignments of
error touching matters of practice and procedure, were correctly
settled by the court. The former opinion of the court in this
cause, and its opinion on the motion to strike that opinion from
the files, disposed effectively of such of these matters as are not
here specifically adverted to." 77 Mississippi, 315.
It is very evident that the circuit court, in striking out these
pleas, took the view that the Supreme Court had, upon the first
hearing, settled the law to be that no valid contract of exemption existed, and that if such contract existed in favor of the
Louisville, New Orleans and Texas Railway Company (hereinafter styled the Louisville Company) it had been lost by the
consolidation of October 24, 1892, and that the only effect of
the special pleas was to inject a claim under the Federal Constitution as an argument for reversing its ruling. These pleas
evidently raised precisely the same questions that had been settled in a slightly different form. The circuit court treated
this as an attempt to induce it to overrule the action of the Supreme Court, which of course was impossible. The Supreme
Court not only held that the circuit court was correct in this
view, but that the issues having already been settled, it would
itself treat them as resjudicaia. This accords with what seems
to be the uniform practice of the Mississippi courts. Thus, in
Smith v. Elder, 14 S. & M. 100, it was held that where a demurrer to a plea, which had been sustained in the court below,
was overruled by the Supreme Court, all the legal questions
raised by the demurrer would be considered as having been
settled by the decision overruling it; and that such decision
would not only be binding upon the inferior but also upon the

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

7

Opinion of the Court.

appellate court. So also in Bridgeforth v. Gray, 39 Mliss. 136,
it was held that, where the construction of a will had been settled
upon demurrer to a bill in chancery, the court would not permit
that question to be reopened upon a hearing upon the merits, notwithstanding the chancery court of Tennessee in the mean time
had placed a different construction upon the will. This is also
the rule in this court. Supervisors v. Jfennicott, 94 U. S.498;
The Lady Pike, 96 U. S. 461 ; Thompson v. 3faxwell Land Grant
& Railway Co., 168 U. S.451. See also Hook v. Ricieson, 115
Illinois, 431; Brooklyn v. Orthwein, 140 Illinois, 620; ]crinney v. State, 117 Indiana, 26.
In this aspect the case is much like that of The Xtual Life
lInsurance Co. v. JKirchoff, 169 U. S. 103. In that case the insurance company had loaned money to Kirchoff and had filed
a bill to foreclose the trust deed. Pending this bill an agreement was entered into for the release to Kirchoff of two of the
lots embraced in the foreclosure proceedings, but it was agreed
that these proceedings should be prosecuted, and as soon as the
company obtained a deed from the master, it would convey to
Kirchoff. No defence was made to the foreclosure, and the case
went to a decree and the property was sold. The case went to
the Supreme Court of Illinois, which found the agreement between Mrs. Kirchoff and the insurance company as claimed by
her; determined that she was entitled to the release sought, and
remanded the case for the purpose of an accounting. As stated
by the Chief Justice: "The record does not disclose that any
right or title was specially set up or claimed under any statute
of, or authority exercised under, the United States in the courts
below, or in the Supreme Court of Illinois prior to the decision
of the latter court on the first appeal. . . . The errors there
assigned nowhere in terms raised a Federal question. And in
affirming the judgment of the appellate court the Supreme
Court did not consider or discuss any Federal question as such
in its opinion." It appears to have turned upon questions of
fact. "It is now contended that it then appeared that defendant claimed to hold an absolute title to the lots in question by
virtue of the foreclosure proceedings and of the master's deed
obtained thereunder, and hence that the title was claimed un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

der an authority exercised under the United States; that a
Federal question was thereby raised on the record; and that
the decision of the case necessarily involved passing on the claim
of title." Upon the second appeal, it was assigned as a Federal
question that the circuit court erred in entering a decree which
would in effect nullify the decree of foreclosure of the Circuit
Court of the United States, and in refusing to the defendant
leave to file the proposed amendment to its answer. "The appellate court on the second appeal held itself bound by the previous decision, and declined to enter on matters of defence which
might have been availed of. The Supreme Court was of the
same opinion, for it ruled that where a case which once had
been reviewed by the court, and remanded with directions as
to the decree to be entered, error could not be assigned on a
subsequent appeal for any cause existing at the time of the prior
judgment." This court dismissed the writ of error, holding
that, as the Supreme Court did not reopen the case as to matters
previously adjudicated, and as the Federal question was not
set up upon the first appeal, there was no action of that court
in relation to it which we were called upon to revise. See also
Nortliern Pacific Railroad v. Ellis, 144 U. S. 458; Great IVestern Tel. Co. v. Burniaq, 162 U. S. 339.
It is true that in the suit under consideration the case was
not formally sent back for an accounting, but it was practically
so, since all the questions of law had been settled upon the first
appeal beyond the power of the circuit court to reopen, and
upon the remand that court could do nothing else than enter
judgment for the taxes of 1892, 1893 and 1894, as well as for
the taxes of 1895. The Supreme Court, in deciding that it
would not reopen the question involved upon the first hearing,
to let in the Federal defence presented by the new pleas, merely
settled a question of practice which we cannot review.
By another process of reasoning we are led to the same conclusion. No leave was applied for or granted to file these additional pleas after the issues had been made up, as seems to
be required by the practice in Mississippi, where it is said that
all such pleas must be presented, with the application to file
them to the court, that it may judge of the propriety of the pro-

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

9

Opinion of the Court.

posed action, Hunt v. Walker, 40 Mississippi, 590; Pool v. Hill,
44 Mississippi, 306; Pfcifer v. Chamberlain,52 Mississippi, 89,
90; and even if leave bad been asked to file them, it was a
matter of discretion with the trial court to permit it, and a
matter of state practice which cannot be inquired into here.
Stevens v. Nichols, 157 U. S. 370; Mexican Central Railway
Co. v. Pinckney, 149 U. S. 194, 199; Long Island lWater Co.
v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 688. We are therefore of opinion that
the Federal question was "specially set up and claimed" too
late to be of any avail to the plaintiffs in error.
2. But the very arguments urged upon us by the defendant
in error for holding that the Federal question was set up too
late, as well as the reasons given for affirming the decree of
the court in striking out the additional pleas, furnish a strong
argument in favor of the position assumed by the railroad companies, that the Federal question was necessarily involved and
must have been passed upon at the first hearing. This argument is in substance that the pleas were properly stricken out,
because they presented no defence as the case then stood, by
reason of the decision of the Supreme Court on the first appeal.
77 Mississippi, 194, 237.
In order to ascertain exactly what was in issue and what
was decided by the Supreme Court, it is necessary to set forth
the facts at some length. The original declaration averred the
several consolidations by which the defendant companies were
formed; the assessment of the same for taxation by the railroad commission; a copy of the assessment by counties; and
the refusal to pay. Annexed thereto as exhibits were copies
of the various charters and contracts of consolidations.
Underlying all the questions in the case are the following
provisions of the constitution of 1869 :
"Article 12, section 13. The property of all corporations for
pecuniary profits shall be subject to taxation the same as that
of individuals."
"Section 20. Taxation shall be equal and uniform throughout the State. All property shall be taxed in proportion to its
value, to be ascertained as directed by law."
By the twenty-first section of an act to incorporate the Mobile

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and Northwestern Railroad Company, approved July 20, 1870,
the State "hereby agrees with said company (and which agreement is irrepealable) that all taxes to which said company shall
be subject for the period of thirty years, are hereby appropriated and set apart, and shall be applied to the debts and
liabilities which the said company may have incurred in the
construction of said road, or for money borrowed by said company, upon lands or otherwise, to be used in constructing said
road, or paying debts incurred by said company, in constructing the same. . . . Provided, however, That whenever the
profits of said company shall enable it to declare and pay to
the stockholders an annual dividend of eight per cent upon its
capital stock over and above the payment of its debts and liabilities, then the appropriation of the taxes aforesaid shall cease,
and said taxes shall be paid by said company to the tax collector, to be by him paid over as required by law."
By an act of August 8, 1870, the provisions of this section
were extended to the Memphis and Vicksburg Railroad, the
Natchez and Jackson Railroad, and a number of others not
necessary here to be mentioned.
The Memphis and Vicksburg Railroad Company was incorporated the same day, August 8, 1870. The sixteenth section
of this act enacted "that said company shall have the right and
power to consolidate the stock, property and franchises of the
road with any other road or roads, in or out of this State, at
any time the president and directors of the road may deem
proper, and upon such terms as may be consistent with the
powers conferred upon said company."
By an act to incorporate the New Orleans, Baton Rouge,
Vicksburg and Memphis Short Line Railroad Company, (hereinafter called the Baton Rouge Company,) approved March 9,
1882, it was enacted, sec. 25: "That the company shall have
power and authority to purchase and hold any connecting railroad, and to operate the same or to consolidate the company
with any other company under the name of one or both; but
when such purchase is made, or consolidation is effected, the
said company shall be entitled to all the benefits, rights, fran-

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

11

Opinion of the Court.

chises, lands and property of every description belonging to
said road or roads so sold or consolidated."
Both these two last-mentioned companies were consolidated
by an agreement made August 12, 1S84, into the Louisville,
New Orleans and Texas Railway Company.
By an act approved March 3, 1882, and an act amendatory
thereto of March 15, 1884, the Memphis and Vicksburg Road
was authorized to consolidate with any other company or companies, " whether such company or companies have been incorporated under the laws of this State or of any other State, so
that all of the companies so consolidating shall be merged into
and become one company; and the company so formed by such
consolidation shall be deemed and held to be a corporation
created by the laws of this State, and shall have, enjoy and
possess all the rights, ways, privileges, franchises, property,
grants and immunities, which are now possessed by the companies which may enter into such consolidation, as fully as
though the same were conferred specially in this act." Another section (5) applied the twenty-first section of the Mobile and Northwestern charter to the company so consolidated.
By a further act of February 17, 1882, the Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railway Company (hereinafter called the Yazoo
Company) was authorized " to consolidate with any other railroad company in or out of Mississippi upon such terms as the
consolidating companies might agree upon, .
.
and upon
any such consolidation the said consolidated company shall have
and enjoy all the property, rights, privileges, powers, liberties,
immunities and franchises herein granted; but such consolidation shall not have the effect of exempting from taxation the
railroad or property owned by such other consolidating company prior to its consolidation with the company hereby chartered; nor of exempting from taxation any property which
the consolidated company may, after such consolidation, acquire under the provisions of the charter of such other consolidated company." Finally by the act of February 19, 1890, the
Louisville, New Orleans and Texas Company, and the Natchez,
Jackson and Columbus Company were authorized to consolidate with each other under the name of the Louisville, New

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Orleans and Texas Company, and upon such terms as might be
agreed upon by the companies.
In 1890 the State adopted a new constitution, the following
clauses of which only are pertinent:
"SEC. 180. All existing charters or grants of corporate franchises under which organizations have not in good faith taken
place at the adoption of this constitution, shall be subject to
the provisions of this article," etc.
"SEC. 181. The property of all private corporations for pecu-

niary gain shall be taxed in the same way and to the same extent,
as property of individuals, etc. Exemptions from taxation, to
which corporations are legally entitled at the adoption of this
constitution, shall remain in full force and effect for the time
of such exemptions as expressed in their respective charters,
or by general laws, unless sooner repealed by the legislature."
On October 24, 1892, articles of consolidation were entered
into between the Louisville Company and the Yazoo Company,
the effect of which will hereafter be considered.
By the Code of Mississippi of 1892, section 3875, a system of
taxing the property of railroad companies by the railroad commission was put in force. This article provided for a complete
schedule of the property of the company, the total amount of
its capital stock, its par value and the value of its franchise;
and, by a law subsequently enacted, February 7, 1894, a state
revenue agent was provided for, whose duty it was to enforce
the payment of taxes by all classes of property owners. It was
under the provisions of the laws of 1892 that this action was
begun.
The railroad companies went to a trial of these cases in an
obvious reliance upon two previous decisions of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi. In the first one, (Jissisppi Mills v.
Cook, 56 Miss. 40,) that court held the constitutional provision,
that "the property of all corporations for pecuniary profits
shall be subject to taxation," did not require that such corporations must always be subjected to taxation, but that their property could not be placed beyond the reach of the taxing power;
and that the legislature might exempt property of a particular
class, whether the owners were corporations or natural persons

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

13

Opinion of the Court.

-in other words, that the provision was mandatory as to the
liability of such property to be taxed, but permissive to the
legislature to tax it or exempt it, as might seem proper. It
further held that the provision of section 20, that "all property
shall be taxed in proportion to its value," did not require that
all property should be taxed, or deny to the legislature the right
to exempt any; that the legislature might exempt property of
a certain class, or property used for a certain purpose; that it
had the power to select such objects of taxation as it might
deem appropriate; but when any article of property was selected
for taxation, it must be taxed in proportion to its value, and not
specifically.
In the second case, Railroad Company v. -ambert, 70 Mississippi, 779, that court held the exemption in the twenty-first
section of the charter of the Mobile and Northwestern Railroad
was one which the legislature had power to confer, but not to
make irrepealable; that under the acts of August 8, 1870, and
March 5, 1878, this immunity from taxation was extended and
confirmed to the Natchez, Jackson and Columbus Railroad Coinpany, and by the act of February 19, 1890, authorizing a consolidation with the New Orleans, Louisville and Texas Company,
the latter company by its consolidation acquired the immunities
of the former company, and was entitled to the same exemption
from taxation ; also, that after the consolidation of the Louisville Company with the Yazoo Company, the latter succeeded
to the same immunity from taxation on that part of its lines
which formerly comprised. the Natchez, Jackson and Columbus
Railroad. In short, these cases cover practically every point
involved in the case under consideration, and counsel evidently
acted upon the theory that it was unnecessary to specifically
set up and claim that there was a contract for exemption which
the legislature had subsequently impaired.
But upon the hearing of the case under consideration the
court (now differently constituted) overruled both of these cases,
and held, first, that the legislature could not grant an exemption to a railway company under the constitution of 1869;
second, that it could not grant an irrepealable exemption under
that constitution; third, that a new company was formed.by

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the consolidation of October 24, 1892, and no exemption passed
into it; fourth, that if the consolidation were a technical merger,
still section 180 of the constitution of 1890 prevented any exemption from passing into it; fifth, that any such exemption
was repealed by the acts of 1884, 1886 and 1890. Manifestly,
that court could not have held the railways liable for the taxes
in suit without deciding either that the provision of section 21
did not constitute a legal contract in view of the constitution of
1869, or that no such contract existed in favor of the plaintiffs
in error in view of the consolidations, or that the subsequent
tax legislation of the State of 1892 and 1894 did not impair
the obligation of that contract. All these were Federal questions, the vital one being whether the acts of 1892 and 1894
impaired the obligation of the contract, if any existed.
In short, the case is one of those frequently arising under the
second clause of Rev. Stat. section 709, in which the validity of
a state statute under the Constitution of the United States is
necessarily drawn in question, and the decision of the state court
being in favor of its validity, this court will take jurisdiction,
though the Federal question be not specially set up or claimed.
As we have repeatedly had occasion to hold, it is only in cases
arising under the third clause of the section where a right, title,
privilege or immunity is claimed, that the Federal question must
be specially set up. The cases are collected in Columbia Water
Power Company v. ColumbiaElectric Street Railway Company,
172 U. S.475, 488. Thus, in Willson v. Blackbird Creek Jlfarsl
Co., 2 Pet. 245, the record did not show that the constitutionality of an act of a state legislature was drawn in question;
"but," said the Chief Justice, "we think it impossible to doubt
that the constitutionality of the act was the question, and the
only question, which could have been discussed in the state
court." So, inSalterlee v.Matltewson, 2 Pet. 380, it was said
that if it sufficiently appear from the record itself that the repugnancy of the statute of a State to the Constitution of the
United States was drawn in question, this court has jurisdiction,
though the record does not in terms declare that this question
was raised. See also Crowell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368; Furman
v. Nicehol, 8 Wall. 44; Chicago ]Life Ins. Co. v. Needle, 113

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

15

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 574; Eureka.Lake &c.Co. v. Yuba County, 116 U. S. 410;
Kaukauna Co. v. Green Bay & Migsissippi Canal, 142 U. S.
254. And the fact that the Supreme Court of the State did not
expressly refer to the contract clause of the Constitution does
not prevent our taking jurisdiction, if the applicability of such
clause were necessarily involved in its decision. As was said by
Chief Justice Waite in Cliapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540,
548: "If a Federal question is fairly presented by the record,
and its decision is actually necessary to the determination of
the case, a judgment which rejects the claim, but avoids all
reference to it, is as much against the right, within the meaning of section 709 of the Revised Statutes, as if it had been specifically referred to and the right directly refused."
The decision of the Supreme Court that the exemption in
the Mobile and Northwestern Railroad Company's charter of
1870 was void under the constitution of 1869 was practically a
decision that the contract of the State was beyond the power
of the legislature and void, and hence there was no contract to
be impaired. But conceding this contract to have been valid,
another distinct question arose, whether that contract enured
to the benefit of the plaintiffs in error by the successive consoli4ations-in other words, whether, as to the plaintiffs in error,
there was any contract ever existing which the taxing logislation
of Mississippi could impair. Both these questions were ruled
against the railroads; and while the contract clause of the
Federal Constitution was not discussed, the case turned upon
the existence of such a contract, and no question seems to have
been made that, if there had been a contract, it was impaired
by the taxing legislation of 1892. As we have often held, that
where an impairment of a contract by state legislation is charged,
the existence or non-existence of the contract is a Federal question, it is impossible to escape the conclusion that the foundation of the whole case was, whether there was really a contract
which had been impaired, and that this was necessary to the
determination of the case. As already stated, this was a Federal question, and the fact that the Supreme Court did not in
terms discuss the contract clause of the Constitution does not
oust our jurisdiction. In view of this record and the opinions

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Supreme Court, the certificate of the Chief Justice, that
the validity of the state statutes was actually drawn in question under the contract clause of the Constitution, was but a
further assurance of a fact already appearing. The motion to
dismiss must therefore be denied.
3. At the foundation of the right to a reversal of this case is
the question whether, conceding the validity of the exemption
or commutation provision contained in the twenty-first section
of the Mobile Company's charter of July 21, 1870, such exemption enured to the plaintiffs in error under their successive consolidations. It will be borne in mind that the existing constitution of Mississippi was adopted November 1, 1890; that the
present Yazoo Company was formed October 24, 1892, (nearly
two years after the adoption of the constitution,) by the consolidation of the original Yazoo Company with the Louisville
Company. By the act of .August 8, 1870, the exemption contained in the twenty-first section of the Mobile charter was
extended to the Memphis and Vicksburg Railroad, which was
chartered the same day. This charter gave it power to consolidate its stock, property and franchises with any other road
upon such terms as might be consistent with the powers conferred upon the company. Twelve years thereafter, March 9,
1882, the Baton Rouge Company was incorporated with power
to consolidate with any other company, and on March 3, 1882,
the Memphis and Vicksburg Company was also authorized to
consolidate. The same power had already been extended February 17, 1882, to the Yazoo Company.
It is unnecessary to discuss the terms of the first consolidation
of August 12, 1884, between the Tennessee Southern, the Memphis Company, the Baton Rouge Company, and the New Orleans Company, forming the Louisville, New Orleans and Texas
Company, since this was made prior to the adoption of the new
constitution of 1890. We are specially concerned with the articles of consolidation between the Louisville Company, so organized, and the Yazoo Company, which were adopted October 24, 1892, and subsequent to the new constitution. The
question in that connection is whether such consolidation created
a now corporation, or, in the language of section 180 of the con-

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

17

Opinion of the Court.

stitution of 1890, whether it was a "grant of corporate franchises," in which case, by the express language of that section,
such new corporation became subject to the provision of the
new constitution. In their articles of consolidation these companies agreed "to and with each other, to unite, merge and
consolidate their several capital stocks, corporate rights, franchises, immunities and privileges, and properties of every kind,
The first article provided that
real, personal and mixed."
"such consolidation shall be effected by uniting or merging the
stock, property and franchises of the party of the first part, (the
Louisville Company,) with and into the stock, property and
franchises of the said the Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railroad
Company, without disturbing the corporate existence of the lastnamed company, or the formation of any new, distinct corporation, unless such result shall be necessary to give legal effect
to this agreement; but whatever maybe the legal consequence
of the consolidation herein provided for, this agreement is to
stand and be effective." This article was evidently drawn in
view of the decisions of this court upon the subject of merger
and consolidation, and evinces a desire to avoid the legal results
following from a consolidation of the two constituent companies
into a new corporation, but, at the same time, expresses a doubt
whether the agreement would not after all be construed to create
a new corporation. These doubts were unquestionably well
founded, and if the effect of the agreement be in law the creation of a new corporation, the expression of a wish that it should
not be so construed, is of course entitled to no weight. The
final clause, that in any event the agreement shall stand and be
effective, shows that effect should be given to all its stipulations,
whatever be its legal consequences.
Subsequent articles provided that the eorporate name should
be the Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company ; that
the capital stock should be fifteen million dollars ; that the stockholders of either of the constitutent companies should "have all
the rights of a stockholder of the consolidated company, as fully
as if new shares of the consolidated company had been issued and
exchanged therefor; and in case the consolidated company shall
determine to issue new shares, such shares shall be exchangeable
VOL. CLXXX-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

at par for the now outstanding shares of each of the constituent
companies;" that all the rights, powers, privileges, immunities
and franchises of the constituent companies should pass to the
consolidated company, which should be managed by a board of
directors, whose names, for the purpose of the organization, were
given.
Reading this agreement in connection with the charters of
the several companies, and especially with that of the Memphis
and Vicksburg Railroad Company of March 3, 1882, providing
that "all of the companies so consolidating shall be merged into
and become one company, and the company so formed by such
consolidation shall be deemed and held to be a corporation
created by the laws of this State," it is impossible to escape the
conclusion that a new corporation was created with a capital
stock of fifteen million dollars, and that the stockholders of the
constituent companies were to become stockholders of the new
company, share for share, "as fully as if new shares of the consolidated company had been issued and exchanged therefor."
Some question was made in the state courts whether the shares
were actually issued in the new company. But the Supreme
Court having found that they were, we accept that finding as
conclusive. Power was expressly given to issue new shares, and
the usual course of business would justify us in inferring that
that was the method adopted. A new name was taken, which
was none the less a new one by reason of the fact that it was
the name of one of the constituent companies.
It cannot be doubted that under this agreement it was contemplated that the constituent companies should go out of existence, and that their officers should resign their trusts in favor
of the officers of the new company; that their boards of directors should be supplanted by another board, the names of whose
members were contained in the agreement; that the stock of
the constituent companies should be surrendered and new stock
taken therefor, or, in lieu of that, that the old stock should be
recognized as the stock of the new company; that the road
should be operated by men holding their commissions from the
new company, and that the entire administration of the functions of the constituent companies should be surrendered to the

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

19

Opinion of the Court.

new corporation. In short, nothing was left of the constituent
companies but the memory of their existence-the mere shadow
of a name. But the new company which took their place suddenly sprang into life with a new corps of officers and a full
equipment for the successful operation of the road.
While as stated in Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, the
presumption is that when two railroads are consolidated each of
the united lines will be respectively held with the privileges and
burdens originally attaching thereto, subsequent cases have settled the law that where two companies agree together to consolidate their stock, issue new certificates, take a new name, elect
a new board of directors, and the constituent companies are to
cease their functions, a new corporation is thereby formed subject to existing laws. But if, as was the case in Tomlinson v.
Branch, one road loses its identity and is merged in another,
the latter preserving its identity, and issuing new stock in favor
of the stockholders of the former, it is not the creation of a new
corporation but an enlargement of the old one. In such case
it was held that where the company which had preserved its
identity held as to its own property a perpetual exemption from
taxation, it would not be extended to the property of the merged
company without express words to that effect.
In the earliest of these cases, Philadelphia, Wilmington &c.
Railroad v. Maryland, 10 How. 376, it was held that a Maryland railroad, whose charter contained no exemption from taxation, did not acquire such exemption by consolidation with
the Delaware and Maryland Railroad Company, whose charter
exempted the road from taxation, except upon that portion of
the permanent and fixed works which might be in the State of
Maryland.
In Central Railroad & Banking Company v. Georgia, 92
U. S. 665, 670, an act of the legislature authorized the Central
Railroad and the Macon Railroad to unite and consolidate their
stock, and all their rights, privileges, immunities and franchises,
under the name and charter of the Central Railroad, in such
manner that each owner of shares of stock of the Macon Road
should be entitled to receive an equal number of shares of the
stock of the consolidated companies. "Whether," said Mr,Jus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tice Strong, "such be the effect [consolidation or amalgamation]
or not, must depend upon the statute under which the consolidation takes place, and of the intention therein manifested. If, in
the statute, there be no words of grant of corporate powers, it
is difficult to see how a new corporation is created." It was
held that the act did not work a dissolution of the existing
corporations and the creation of a new company, since there
was no provision for a surrender of the stock of the shareholders
of the Central, and none for the issue of other certificates to
them. In that case, the road, whose charter contained the
exemption from taxation, was preserved intact by the consolidation, and it was held that its exemption continued, while the
other road was to go out of existence. As already stated, in
the act authorizing the consolidation in this case of the Memphis
and Vicksburg Railroad Company, there is an express provision
that all the companies so consolidated shall be merged into and
become one company, and held to be a corporation created by
the laws of the State.
Other cases to the same effect, holding that the consolidation
did not operate as a dissolution of the constituent companies,
are Chesay)eake & Oido Railroad v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 718;
Greene Coufny v. Oonness, 109 U. S. 104, and Tennessee v.
Whitworth, 117 U. S. 139.
It may be observed that all these cases turn upon the question whether the new company inherited by consolidation certain privileges and immunities belonging to the constituent
companies, or one of thetn, and that no question arose as to the
applicability of a new constitutional inhibition intervening before the consolidation took place. This question, however, did
arise in Shdelds v. Ohio, 95 U. S.319, where it was held that a
consolidation under a statute of Ohio of two or more railroad
companies worked their dissolution, and that the powers and
franchises of the new company thereby formed were subject to
"be altered, revoked or repealed by the General Assembly"
under a constitutional provision which took effect prior to the
consolidation. The statute in that case expressly provided that
the consolidated company should be a new corporation and
subject to the constitutional provision. A like ruling was made

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

21

Opinion of the Court.

under a similar statute of Maine in Railroad Com)any v.
Maive, 96 U. S. 499. In Railroad Company v. Georgia, 98
U. S. 359, two railroad companies were consolidated by an act
of the legislature, which authorized the consolidation of their
stocks, conferred upon the consolidated company full corporate
powers, and continued to it the franchises, privileges and iunmunities which the companies had held by their original charters. We held in that case that a new corporation was created,
which became subject to the provisions of a statutory code,
adopted January 1, 1863, permitting the charters of private
corporations to be changed, modified or destroyed at the will
of the legislature. The case was distinguished from Railroad
Conpany v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665, as being a consolidation instead of a merger. "Nor was it," said Mr. Justice Strong, "a
mere alliance or confederation of the two. If it had been, each
would have preserved its separate existence as well as its corporate name; but the act authorized the consolidation of the
stocks of the two companies, thus making them one company
in place of two. It contemplated, therefore, that the separate
capital of each company should go out of existence as the capital of that company." To the same effect is Si. Louis, 1ron
fountain &c. Railway v. Berry, 113 U. S. 465.
The latest declaration of this court upon the subject is found
in Heokuk & Western Railroad v. _lHisouri, 152 U. S. 301. In
that case, a railroad corporation chartered in Mlissouri in 1857,
with a provision that its property should be exempt from taxation for a period of twenty years after its completion, which
took place in 1872, was consolidated with an Iowa corporation
in 1870, under a general law of Missouri; and in 1886 the consolidated road was sold under a deed. of foreclosure to purchasers, who conveyed it to an Iowa corporation. It was held that
the act of the legislature of Missouri authorizing the consolidation, making one company of the two, whose stock should be
consolidated upon such terms as might be mutually agreed upon,
authorizing the adoption of a new corporate name and the exchange of the stock of the constituent companies for stock in
the new company, and providing for the filing with the secretary of state of a copy of the consolidation agreement, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

should be conclusive evidence of the consolidation and of the
corporate name of the new company, was in effect the extinguishment of the prior companies and the formation of a new
one; and that an intervening constitutional provision, adopted
in 1865, prohibiting exemptions from taxation, was thereby let
in and to be read as a part of the charter of the new company.
In view of the terms of the consolidating agreement, to
which reference has already been made, and of the several acts
of the Legislature of Mississippi authorizing these consolidations, we are of opinion that a new corporation was contem.
plated, and that, taken together, these several documents should
be read as if they bad expressly provided, with legislative sanction, for the formation of a new association. Exemptions from
taxation are not favored 'by law, and will not be sustained unless such clearly appears to have been the intent of the legislature. Public policy in all the States has almost necessarily
exempted from the scope of the taxing power large amounts of
property used for religious, educational and municipal purposes; but this list ought not to be extended except for very
substantial reasons; and while, as we have held in many cases,
legislatures may in the interest of the public contract for the
exemption of other property, such contract should receive a
strict interpretation, and every reasonable doubt be resolved in
favor of the taxing power. Indeed, it is not too much to say
that courts are astute to seize upon evidence tending to show
either that such exemptions were not originally intended, or
that they have become inoperative by changes in the original
constitution of the companies. In cases arising under the Mississippi constitution of 1869, the method adopted in the charter
of the Mobile and Northwestern Company of commuting the
taxes was originally sustained under the theory that the provision of that constitution declaring "the property of all corporations for pecuniary profits shall be subject to taxation, the
same as that of individuals," did not mean that it should be
necessarily subjected to taxation, but that it might be exempted
altogether by the legislature. iississippi Mills v. Cook, 56
Mississippi, 40. But by the constitution of 1890, "all existing
charters or grants of corporatefranchisesunder which organi-

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v.ADAMS.

23

Opinion of the Court.

zations have not in good faith taken place at the adoption of
this constitution, shall be subject to the provisions of the article," one of which was (section 181) that "the property of all
private corporations for pecuniary gain shall be taxed in the
same way and to the same extent as property of individuals."
It is true that in the act of March 9, 1882, authorizing the
Baton Rouge Company to consolidate, in the act of March 3,
1882, authorizing the Memphis and Vicksburg Company to consolidate, and in the act of February 17, 1882, authorizing consolidations by the Yazoo Company, there were provisions that
the consolidated companies should be entitled to the rights,
privileges, franchises, property, grants and immunities belonging to constituent companies, among which, under the name of
immunities, might pass an exemption from taxation, as has been
sometimes held by this court; and had not the constitutional
provision of 1890 taken effect before the final consolidation of
1892, we might have been obliged to hold that the consolidated
company was entitled to the commutation of taxes provided for
in the twenty-first section of the charter of the Mobile and
Northwestern Company. But it is scarcely necessary to say
that, if the consolidation of 1892 resulted in a new corporation,
it would come into existence under the constitution of 1890,
with the disabilities attaching thereto, among which is the provision that "the property of all private corporations for pecuniary gain shall be taxed in the same way and to the same extent
as the property of individuals." Even if the legislature, in these
several acts of consolidation, had expressly provided that the
new corporation thereby formed should be exempted from taxation, the higher law of the constitution would be interpreted
as nullifying it to that extent.
A similar remark may be made with regard to the provision
that these companies might consolidate upon such terms as they
should agree upon. Obviously such terms must be consistent
with the law existing at the time of the consolidation. It
could never have been the intention of the legislature, and if
it were it would be vain, to permit these companies to adopt
such terms as they chose, if such terms were inconsistent with
existing laws. The language indicated evidently refers to the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

method adopted for the consolidation, whether it was to be anything more than a simple merger, or whether it was to provide
for a surrender of the stock of the constituent companies, the
issue of new stock, the adoption of a new name and the choice
of a new board of directors. Under no circumstances would
they be interpreted as conveying rights to the new corporation
which the legislature was incompetent to confer.
Great stress is laid by the railroad companies upon the fact
that at the time these companies were incorporated the State
was without credit, the treasury without money, the issue of
state bonds in aid of public improvements forbidden by the
constitution, the levy of general taxes to assist in the building of the roads fruitless, the resources of the State having
been exhausted by the civil war, which had left the commu
nity so poor that it was with difficulty the inhabitants could
raise the taxes necessary for carrying on the government;
that millions of acres of land were being abandoned and forfeited to the State for non-payment of taxes and subsequently
sold at incredibly low figures; that the paramount necessity
was clearly the building of railroads to develop the resources
of the State, and yet that the topography of the country was
such that both the construction and the maintenance of the
roads was difficult and expensive, and railroad enterprises
promised very doubtful profits; that the lands along the river
bottoms were waste and swamp, uncultivated and unexplored,
and subject to annual inundations from the Mississippi; that
the levees had been swept away again and again, and Congress
asked for aid to rebuild them upon the ground of the impossibility of the State to do the work; that in this condition of
affairs the best that could be done was to offer as a remuneration to vote taxes as a consideration for building the road; that
these proposals were accepted and carried out in good faith;
that the result has been to increase the value of property in
portions of the State fully one hundred fold, and to immensely
increase the revenues of the State and counties, and that under
these circumstances the present repudiation of these contracts
by the State, by pleading a technical incapacity to contract, is
a gross breach of public faith, and should be discountenanced
by the courts.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI V. R'Y CO. v. ADAMS.

25

Opinion of the Court.

Potent as these considerations are, they address themselves
to the legislative rather than to the judicial department of the
government. The legislature is the proper guardian of the
public faith, and in its action with respect to its own obligations, we are bound to assume that it will be guided, not only
by its present necessity for revenue, but by consideration of
its possible future needs. But whatever policy the State may
choose to adopt with respect to encouraging or discouraging
the investment of capital from abroad, the duty of the courts
is to declare the law as they find it, and avoid the discussion of
questions of policy, which are clearly beyond their province.
Certainly this court is not the keeper of the State's conscience.
We have not thought it proper to inquire what were the answers
to these charges. Doubtless they are sufficient, or at least are
such as the legislature deemed to be sufficient, or it would not
have passed the taxing acts of 1892 and 1894. While we have
never hesitated to vindicate the right of individuals or corporations to enforce the performance of lawful contracts as against
subsequent legislation designed to impair them, we have always
exacted as a condition that the contract was one which the legislature, or opposite party, had power to make under the Constitution, and that the other party was chargeable with knowledge
of all its provisions in that connection. To enforce a performance, the plaintiff must also bring himself within the letter and
spirit of the contract, and thus provide against any change in
public sentiment which may render its performance obnoxious
or unpopular.
Being of opinion that the consolidation in question, which
took place nearly two years subsequent to the adoption of this
constitution, was a new grant of corporate franchises within
the meaning of section 180, it follows that it became subject
to the provisions of section 181.
The question how far the case of Railroad Co. v. lambert,
70 Mississippi, 779, is applicable as res adjudicata upon the
taxes involved in this case, is a local question, upon which we
are not called upon to express an opinion. We do not understand it to be pressed as ground for reversal.
The judgment of the Supreme Court is therefore
Aftinred.

