NEW ORLEANS v FISHER.
Statement of the Case.

upon that ground the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State of Washington must be and is
Afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

concurred in the result.

M i. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE SHIRAS

dissented.

NEW ORLEANS v. FISHER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 46. Argued October 12, 1900.-Decided January 28, 1901.

The city of New Orleans having collected school taxes and penalties thereon,
and not having paid over these collections, judgment creditors of the school
board of the city, whose claims were payable out of these taxes, were entitled, if the school board failed to require it, to file a creditor's bill
against the city for an accounting.
The city was bound to account not only for school taxes but also for the
interest thereon collected by way of penalty for delay in payment.
As the collections were held in trust, the statute of limitations constituted
no defence.
Jurisdiction of the actions in which the judgments were recovered against
the school board could not be attacked on the creditor's bill.
No demand for an accounting as of a particular date being alleged or proved,
interest on the amount found due prior to the filing of the creditor's bill
is allowed only from the latter date.

THIS was a bill filed by Mrs. M. M. Fisher, joined and authorized by her husband, John Fisher, citizens of the Kingdom of

Spain, May 11, 1896, against the city of New Orleans, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, which alleged"That she recovered a judgment in this hon. court against
the board of school directors, a corporation created by the laws
of the State of Louisiana, and a citizen thereof, in the sum of
more than ten thousand dollars, as more fully appears by the
record of said suit;
"That your oratrix obtained two other judgments against

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

the same school board, before the civil district court for the parish
of Orleans, amounting in the aggregate to many thousand
dollars;
"That all of said judgments are now final; that they are
made payable out of the school taxes levied by the city of New
Orleans, prior to 1879.
"Your oratrix avers that the school taxes out of which said
judgments have been made payable, is a trust fund levied by the
city of New Orleans, for the purpose of paying the expenses of
the public schools of the city of New Orleans.
"1st. That the city of New Orleans has failed to collect the
said taxes punctually and that it was through her fault and
negligence that the same remain uncollected, and by reason of
her neglect she has become liable for the amount of taxes yet
remaining uncollected.
"2d. Your oratrix further complains and says that said taxes,
under the law, carried interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum and that the city of New Orleans has never paid to the
school board any of the interest due on said taxes, but she has
misapplied and diverted the same to other unlawful uses.
"3d. Your oratrix further avers that the school board created
the obligation against said school taxes, by virtue of contracts
which were legally entered into and your oratrix was protected
by the Constitution of the United States from any impairment
of her contract.
"That in violation of this constitutional right, the State of
Louisiana passed act 82 of 1884, which directed that the property of delinquent taxpayers should be sold for what it would
bring and that all taxes due thereon should by virtue of said
sale be cancelled.
"That by reason of said law, the city of New Orleans allowed
the property on which the school taxes were due to be sold for
state taxes, and she caused the city taxes, including the school
taxes, to be cancelled; that she was thus guilty, 1st, as a delinquent trustee for not having enforced the collection of the said
tax; and 2d, for having failed to protect the interest of your
oratrix at said state tax sale; that the cancellations thus made
amount to many thousands of dollars.

NEW ORLEANS v. FISHER.
Statement of the Case.

"4th. That the said city of New Orleans at various times
passed ordinances cancelling and annulling the said taxes and
remitting the interest thereon:
"That your oratrix is unable to give the exact amount of
each kind of violations of her obligations by the trustee, and it
is absolutely necessary to make the city of New Orleans account
for the various amounts which have been lost to your oratrix
through the unfaithfulness of said trustee.
"That the board of school directors to whom the city of New
Orleans should account have refused to demand such an account
and will continue so to do and your oratrix would be left without a remedy.
"That the fund which the city of New Orleans administers
seems now to be sufficient to satisfy the demands of all the
creditors who are entitled to be paid out of the same.
" Your oratrix further avers that her judgments are made
directly payable out of the school taxes levied prior to 1879
and she has an equitable lien thereagainst enforceable before a
court of equity.
"She further avers that under the law her certificates which
are merged in her judgments have been under the law, received
by the city of New Orleans, directly in payment of the school
taxes without the intervention of the board of school directors.
"That for those reasons your oratrix brings her bill against
the city of New Orleans and the board of directors of the city
schools of New Orleans for an account.
"Your oratrix brings this bill for herself and all parties similarly situated who are willing to appear and contribute to the
costs thereof, they being too numerous to be made parties
hereto."
The prayer was that the city school board and the city answer, and "give a full, fair and perfect account of all the school
taxes collected by the city of New Orleans for the years 1873,
1874, 1875, 1876, 1877 and 1878; of all the interest received
thereon by said city and never accounted for; of all the taxes
which were not collected for want of proper enforcement, and
which have since been cancelled both by sales made by the
state tax collectors and by ordinance adopted by the city council;" and for general relief.

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Subsequently a supplemental bill was filed in respect of property alleged to have been acquired by the city through seizures
for taxes.
The bill was taken as confessed as against the school board,
and general demurrers were filed by the city, and overruled.
The city thereupon, March 12, 1897, answered, admitting
"that oratrix recovered judgments against the board of school
directors, a corporation of the State of Louisiana, and a citizen
thereof, both in this honorable court and in the civil district
court for the parish of Orleans as is set forth in oratrix's bill of
complaint and records annexed thereto and referred to therein ;"
"that all of said judgments are now final and are payable as
decreed and provided for in the said judgments;" but denying
"that the school taxes out of which said judgments have been
made payable is a trust fund levied by the city of New Orleans
for the purpose of paying the expenses of the public schools of
said city;" and "that it has ever failed to collect said taxes
punctually, and denies that any of the same remain uncollected,
and denies that if any of the same remain uncollected, they so
remain by reason of any negligence on the part of this defendant, and denies that defendant is liable at all for the amount
of any such taxes yet remaining uncollected, if any such there
be."
Also admitting "that the city of New Orleans had never paid
to the school board any interest which she may have cQllected
on any back taxes, and defendant denies that any such interest,
if same has ever been collected, was due to the school board,
and defendant denies that she has ever misapplied or diverted
to unlawful uses any interest that she may have collected from
delinquent taxpayers or back taxes, and defendant avers and
shows that by express provision of law all interest which she
may collect on any back taxes is especially set aside for certain
purposes and cannot by her be used for school purposes or for
any other purpose than that commanded by law;" and denying
"that the school board created the obligations against the school
taxes, set forth in oratrix's bill of complaint, by virtue of any contracts legally entered into, and denies that the oratrix has any
right to invoke the protection of the Constitution of the United

NEW ORLEANS v. FISHER.
Statement of the Case.

States herein, and denies that the provisions of the same regarding impairment of contract have been in any manner violated
by this defendant;" "that act No. 82 of 1884 was passed in violation of any constitutional rights of oratrix in the premises, and
defendant declares that whatever was done by the State of Louisiana in passing the said act, if it was done, was within the legislative authority, and the said taxes and legislative provisions were
subject to change, amendment and repeal by the same authority
which created them, and defendant shows and avers that the
city of New Orleans had no authority or control over the action
of the legislature in the premises;" "that the city of New
Orleans allowed any property on which school taxes were due,
to be sold for said taxes, and denies that she caused the city
taxes, including the school taxes, to be cancelled;" "that she
has been or is guilty as a delinquent trustee for not having
enforced the collection of said taxes, denies that she ever was a
trustee in the matter, denies that she ever failed to enforce the
collection of any taxes which it was her duty to enforce, denies
that it ever was her duty to protect the interests, if any she had,
of oratrix, at said tax sales, denies that oratrix had any such
interest and denies that there were any such tax sales;" "that
any cancellations amounting to many thousands of dollars, or to
any amount, were made by reason of said sales as set forth in
oratrix's bill of complaint;" "that the city of New Orleans
passed ordinances cancelling and annulling any taxes, or remitting any interest thereon, but if any taxes were so cancelled
or remitted, defendant avers the same was done by authority of
law or by judgment of a competent court. Defendant denies
that there was or is any obligation on the part of the city to
account either to the school board or to the oratrix for any
taxes, moneys or appropriations such as are set forth in oratrix's
bill of complaint."
The answer further denied "that it was the duty of the school
board to call this defendant to account, and denies that the
school board or the oratrix herein has any cause of action
against this defendant for such an account. Defendant denies
that there was any privity between the school board and this
defendant, or between Mrs. Fisher and this defendant. And

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

further answering defendant says, that if any such cause of
action for an accounting ever did exist in favor of said school
board or of said oratrix, the same was effective and executory
in the year 1880, and became actionable and exigent in the
year 1880, and in the years following the year 1873 up to 1879
inclusive; that said action of accounting was personal to said
school board and could only be exercised and availed of by the
said school board, which action is prescribed by the lapse of ten
years from and after each of the said years, and that oratrix has
no right or cause of action in the premises;" and "that there is
any fund now administered, or which ever was administered
by the city of New Orleans, derived either from appropriations,
taxes or money said to be due said school board, and denies
that if there is or was any such fund, that the said school board
or oratrix has any rights in the premises."
It was admitted "that the judgments of oratrix are payable
as stipulated in said judgments," but denied "that oratrix has
any equitable lien enforceable against the city of New Orleans
before a court of equity by reason thereof;" and also "that
under the law were the services which she alleges have been
merged in her judgments ever received by the city of New Orleans directly in payment of the school taxes without the intervention of the board of school directors."
The city further denied the purchase of property "for the
taxes due for the years during which oratrix's claim is alleged
to have arisen;" any resulting trust if purchases bad been
made; any statutory lien; and "that the oratrix has any right
or reason to invoke the equitable jurisdiction of this honorable
court."
Replication was filed, and the cause referred to a master "to
take a full, true, fair and perfect account of all the funds, principal and interest, received by the city of -New Orleans from
the school taxes levied in 1871, 1873, 1874, 1875, 1876, 1877
and 1878, and of all interest remitted illegally, and of all properties purchased for said taxes as more fully prayed in the bill
and supplemental bill filed herein, and to that effect the parties
shall produce before said master all books, papers, documents
to be examined and which may be necessary or proper in the
premises,"

NEW ORLEANS v. FISHER.
Statement of the Case.

Numerous persons claiming to have judgments against the
School Board, similar to the judgments of Mrs. Fisher, intervened and asked to share in the proceeds of any amount found
to be due by the city of New Orleans on the accounting.
May 22, 1897, the master reported:
"1st. The city of New Orleans owes the school board for
the principal of school taxes collected and not paid over from
the years 1871 to 1878, both inclusive, the amount of $23,180.03.
"2d. The proportion of the interest actually collected by the
city of New Orleans on the taxes of the years 1871 to 1878,
both inclusive, up to January 1st, 1897, to which the school board
will be entitled, if it is entitled to the same proportion of the
interest as of the principal of said taxes, is $48,758.75.
"It is a question of law whether the school board is entitled
to any part of the interest. I think it is-the interest as a
mere accessory of the principal belongs in my opinion to the
same person to whom the principal belongs. Accordingly in
my opinion the amount the city of INew Orleans now owes to
the school board for taxes collected, and for interest on the
taxes collected, is as above stated, $71,938.78."
That complainant had abandoned the attempt to show that
the city owed anything on account of properties purchased for
taxes. That the city was not chargeable "with the calculated
amount of interest not collected." And "that the following
parties have proved their claims against the fund herein, by
judgments rendered in their favor against the school board, in
the civil district court for the parish of Orleans, namely:
"M. M. Fisher .......................... $11,094
..
8,802
.................. 5,864
T. J. Gasquet
............ 57,059
Jose V enta ............................... 21,297

87
39
64
69
72"

Complainants with several intervenors filed exceptions to the
master's report, and on June 7, 1897, the city of New Orleans
filed exceptions as follows:
"Defendant excepts to that part of the report of the master
wherein he expresses his opinion that the interest on taxes is a

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

mere accessory of the principal, and belongs to the person to
whom the principal belongs, and that, therefore, in his opinion,
the city of New Orleans owes the school board for taxes collected and interest collected. Exceptor excepts to this on the
ground that:
"1st. It was no part of the master's duty, under his reference, to decide this question or to express any opinion upon the
question of law involved therein, but in the event that the court
overrules this exception and holds that such was his duty, then
and in that case the city of New Orleans excepts to his conclusions of law, and asserts that, on the contrary, his conclusion is
erroneous; that the interest does not follow the taxes, and does
not belong to the party to whom the taxes belong.
"Defendant excepts to the statement of the master that the
amount reported as collected out of the school taxes from 1871
to 1878, inclusive, is due by the city to the school board or to
the board of liquidation at any time since its collection."
June 29, 1897, the city filed an exception to the jurisdiction
of the court ratione 7naterice et permonw, averring "that plaintiff's petition contains no averment that the suit could have been
maintained by the assignors of the claim sued upon by Mrs. M.
M. Fisher in the suit which forms the basis of this action;" and
on July 1, a plea in abatement "that plaintiff, Mrs. M. M. Fisher,
and defendant are both citizens of the State of Louisiana, and
that by reason thereof this court is without jurisdiction ratione
persontv." This exception and plea were afterwards stricken
from the files as irregular and not filed in accordance with the
rules. The city then offered in open court to file a motion and
a plea further attacking the jurisdiction of the court, but leave
was refused ; and thereafter the case came on for final hearing
on the bill, answer, replication, exhibits, proofs and testimony,
and master's report.
Included in the evidence offered on behalf of complainant
were the pleadings and judgment in the cause of Mrs. Fisher
against the School Board, in which judgment was rendered in
the Circuit Court, May 19, 1892. The petition in that case alleged that Mrs. Fisher and her husband were "both citizens of
the Kingdom of Spain residing in the island of Cuba;" counted

NEW ORLEANS v. FISHER.
Statement of the Case.

upon a judgment against the School Board rendered by the civil
district court of the parish of Orleans; and stated that the claim
which formed the basis of the judgment was for salary due petitioner as a school teacher of the public schools of the city, and
for the salary of other teachers, whose claims had been transferred to petitioner. The defendant filed an exception to the
effect that the court was without jurisdiction as the rights, credits
and school warrants proceeded on were held by petitioner under
assignments, and that the assignors were all citizens of the State
of Louisiana and without right to sue defendant in the Circuit
Court. This exception was tried before a jury and a verdict
rendered in favor of petitioner, whereupon the exception was
overruled, and judgment was thereupon rendered in favor of
petitioner for $8097.17, the amount of the judgment rendered
in the state court. It appeared that on this judgment garnishee
process had been served on the city treasurer and ex oficio treasurer of the School Board and the sums of $1893.09 and of
$312.56, less costs, realized in 1894, and in' 1895.
On February 21, 1898, the court gave judgment in favor of
plaintiffs and intervenors, and, among other things, decreed:
"That the city of New Orleans, trustee of the special school
taxes levied and collected for the years 1871 to 1878, inclusive,
be condemned to pay plaintiffs and intervenors the said taxes,
received and collected by her, as follows: $71,938.78 with five
per cent interest per annum on $71,139.60 from January 24,
1881, and on $799.18 from May 11, 1896, until paid. And itis
further ordered that this bill be retained for a further accounting and such orders and decrees as may be necessary."
Mrs. Fisher died February 25, 1898, and on April 22, 1898,
John Fisher was made party complainant as natural tutor of
his minor children. April 23, 1898, the city filed a petition for
rehearing which was denied, but the court directed the final decree to be amended so as to only allow interest on the amount
recovered, to wit: $71,139.60 from February 21, 1898, the date
of said decree, instead of from January 24, 1881, as theretofore
allowed. On the same day, April 23, and prior to the decision
on the rehearing, a plea in abatement was put in by the city to
the effect that John Fisher, being a citizen of Spain, was unable
VOL. CLxxx-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to prosecute the suit, and that it should be abated because a state
of war existed between Spain and the United States, and the
subjects and citizens thereof. On the proofs the court was satisfied that complainant was a citizen of Great Britain, whereupon the plea was overruled. From the decree of the Circuit
Court both parties appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit, which modified the decree so as to allow five
per cent interest on the sum of $71,139.60 from January 24,
1881, and on the sum of $799.18 from May 8, 1897, and as so
modified the decree was affirmed with costs. 91 Fed. Rep. 574.
. The city applied to this court for the writ of certiorari, which
was granted.
Mr'. J J. MLoughlim and J1r. Branch K. Miller for the
city of New Orleans.
Mr. Charles Lougue for Fisher and others.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Fourteen errors were assigned in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which were considered and disposed of seriatim. Many of these
alleged errors raised questions not within the exceptions to the
master's report, and, in any view, we think the case may be determined without minutely retraversing the ground.
Mrs. Fisher and her husband recovered judgment against the
board of school directors in the state District Court, May 22,
1890, which, on appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
-Fisherand hfusband v. School Directors,44 La. Ann. 184.
February 23, 1892, Mrs. Fisher and husband brought an action against the school board on the judgment so recovered, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisiana. The petition set forth that Mr. and Mrs. Fisher
were citizens of the Kingdom of Spain, and that the judgment
sued on was recovered on certain claims for school teachers'
salaries, including Mrs. Fisher herself. An exception was filed
to the jurisdiction of the court on the ground that the assignors

NEW ORLEANS v. FISHER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the school warrants held by Mrs. Fisher as assignee could
not have sued in that court. The matter was submitted to a
jury, and a verdict returned in plaintiffs' favor, whereupon the
exception was overruled, and afterwards the case went to judgment payable out of the school taxes levied prior to 1879. This
judgment was rendered May 19, 1892, and on May 11, 1896, the
present bill, in the nature of a creditor's bill, was filed on behalf
of Mrs. Fisher, joined and authorized by her husband, (setting
up that judgment and others,) and of all others similarly situated, to compel an accounting for their benefit by the city in
respect of the school taxes levied prior to 1879, and the interest thereon, collected and not paid over to the school board, as
a trust fund for the payment of the expenses of the public
schools, it being averred that the school board had refused to
require such accounting.
After demurrer filed and overruled, the city answered, admitting the recovery of the judgments as alleged; that they had
become final; and that they were payable as provided therein;
and denying that the school taxes collected constituted a trust
fund; any liability for interest collected; any privity between
Mrs. Fisher and the city; and pleading prescription by the
lapse of ten years.
The cause was referred to a master, who reported certain
amounts of school taxes, and of interest on school taxes, collected by the city. The city filed exceptions to the conclusions
of the master that the city was indebted to the school board for
interest collected; and that the amount reported as collected
out of the school taxes from 1871 to 1878, inclusive, was due by
the city to the school board "at any time since its collection."
The facts are not in controversy, and the questions raised, or
attempted to be raised, are questions of law.
The bill invoked the ordinary exercise of equity jurisdiction
in this class of cases. The school taxes collected were held in
trust by the city, and, as the school board declined to require
an accounting, these creditors, whose claims were payable out
of the taxes, were entitled to the interposition of a court of
equity to reach the fund. The suggestion of want of privity
between complainants and the city, as defeating the jurisdiction,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

is without merit. Nor is the defence of the statute of limitations well founded.
The judgments were rendered since 1890, and were made
payable out of these taxes; the school certificates were merged
in these judgments ; and this bill was filed within ten years.
As between the city and the school board, the city did not
hold these collections in her own right. The possession of
the one was the possession of the other; the possession of the
city was precarious, and not animo dorini ; and being trustee
she could not acquire the trust fund by lapse of time. There
was no adverse possession in repudiation of the fiduciary relation. Oliver v. Piatt,3 How. 333, 411 ; New Orleans v. Warner, 175 U. S. 120, 130.
After the master's report and the exceptions thereto had been
filed, the city undertook to raise the question of the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court on the ground of the want of competency
in the assignors of Mrs. Fisher to sue in that court, and of want
of diversity of citizenship between Mrs. Fisher and the city.
The first of these objections had been made and after trial overruled in the proceedings which resulted in the judgment of
May 19, 1892. The petition in that case also alleged that Mrs.
Fisher and her husband were citizens of Spain. The judgment
was conclusive on both points, and not open to impeachment
as to either collaterally or on a creditor's bill. .IVatingly v. Nye,
8 Wall. 370, 373; Evers v. -Watson,156 U. S. 527, 533; Laing
v. figney, 160 U. S. 531, 539.
On July 1, 1897, a plea to the jurisdiction of the court in this
case because Mrs. Fisher was a citizen of Louisiana was put upon
the files without leave of court, and was stricken off as irregular
on December 20. This action of the court is not open to review, and as this bill was merely ancillary the plea was immaterial. Root v. Woolworth, 150 U. S. 401, 413.
The city on the same day, December 20, applied for leave to
file a plea alleging that Mrs. Fisher was a citizen of Louisiana
at the time the original action was brought in the Circuit Court,
and had so continued down to the filing of the bill; that she
had fraudulently otherwise represented; and that the city had
no information of the facts until after the exceptions to the mas-

NEW ORLEANS v. FISHER.
Opinion of the Court.

ter's report were filed, which was on the seventh of June. This
application was denied by the Circuit Court, and it is impossible for us to say that in this ruling the court abused its discretion.
This was not the proper way to attack the original judgment
on the ground of fraud; nothing was said in the proposed plea
as to the citizenship of Mr. Fisher, who was a party plaintiff,
and a necessary or at least proper party, if the ehoses in action
sued on were community property, and even if paraphernal,
La. Civ. Code, §§ 2385, 2402, 2404 ; and the record, so far from
indicating fraud, showed that Mr. Fisher was an alien, being a
subject of the British crown residing at Cuba, which had led to
a mistake of counsel in framing the pleadings.
It may be added that there was nothing in the case bringing
it within the exceptional rule applied in Lawpeqwe Zan. Co. v.
Janesville Cotton Mills, 138 UT.S. 552, relied on by counsel.
The city excepted to the inclusion of the interest on school
taxes collected by the city with the school taxes collected, as
part of the amount for which the city was liable.
The Circuit Court of Appeals disposed of this point in these
words:
"Under the law, the school taxes carried ton per cent interest per annum from the day they became delinquent. It was
a penalty for non-payment of the taxes. This interest, or penalty, for delayed payment of school taxes, formed no part of
the city's proper revenues. The city in collecting the same was
acting as a trustee for the school board. Delay in payment of
taxes operated to the prejudice, not of the city, but of the school
fund and its creditors. We are unable to find any authority in
law or morals for the city to appropriate to itself this interest.
To allow such an appropriation would be to reward the city for its
own negligence in the collection of the taxes due the school fund.
We fully agree with the master that 'the interest, as a mere
accessory of the principal, belongs to the same person to whom
the principal belongs.'" 91 Fed. Rep. 583.
We concur in this view, and are moreover of opinion that the
city, having made such collections, cannot now be permitted to
escape liability therefor on the suggestion that school taxes are

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not within the terms of the statute inflicting the penalty on
"all taxes imposed by the city of iNew Orleans." Acts La.
1871, No. 48, see. 9.
The only other matter necessary to be referred to is the allowance of interest. The Circuit Court by its amended decree
gave interest on the larger sum found due from the date of the
decree. The Circuit Court of Appeals modified that decree so
as to award interest on the sum of $71,139.60, collected prior
to January 24, 1881, from the latter date, and on the item of
$799.18, reported by the master May 8, 1897, as having been
collected after January 2-1, 1881, from the date of the report.
The bill did not charge the city with any wilful default, nor
did it appear therefrom when the school board was requested
to demand an accounting. The bringing of the bill amounted
to such demand, and it was filed May 11, 1896, and the appearance of the city entered June 1.
The city occupied the position of agent of the school board
to collect and pay over school taxes, as held in Labatt v. New
Orleans, 38 La. Ann. 283, yet it may fairly be said that, under
the legislation upon the subject, it was not the duty of the city
to pay the money over immediately, but only as occasion might
arise, and that, as no charge of fraudulent conversion was made,
interest would not commence to run until after failure to pay
when required to do so, or failure to account on demand.
Where interest is sought by way of damages for delay, courts
of equity exercise a certain discretion as to its allowance.
In view of the acquiescence of the school board in the retention by the city of the interest collected on school taxes, an acquiescence in good faith so far as appears; the attitude of the
city as a public corporation ; and the lack of averment or evidence of demand prior to the filing of the bill, or of effort to
compel an accounting, we think that interest should not be allowed in this case prior to May 11, 1896.
Te decree qf the Circuit Cow't of -Appeals is modified so as
to Provideforfive per cent interest on the suln of $71,139.60
from May 11, 1896, anzd on the sum of p799.18 from
May 8, 1897, avd as so modfledl is affirmed with costs; and
the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court witl a direction

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Statement of the Case.

to amend its decree in the _articulars above specified, it being acflrmed a8 so modified.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM and MR. JUSTICE OCKENNA took no
part in the consideration and disposition of the case.

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 281.

Argued December 11, 13,900.-Decided January 28, 1901.

The decree heretofore entered upon the mandate of this court, 175 U. S.
120, permitted of no distinction being made between drainage warrants
issued for the purchase of the dredging plant of the Mexican Gulf Ship
Canal Company, and such as were issued in the purchase of the franchises,
and in settlement of the claim for damages urged by the Canal Company
and Van Norden against the city of New Orleans.
There was no error in permitting all parties holding drainage warrants of
the same class, to come in and prove their claims without formal intervention or special leave, though the validity of such warrants in the hands
of their holders might be examined, except so far as such validity had
been already settled by the decree.
Warrants to the amount of twenty thousand dollars issued for drainage
funds collected by the city and misapplied and appropriated to the general funds of the city were also properly allowed.

TIls was a writ of certiorari to review a decree of the Court of
Appeals, rendered May 1, 1900, affirming a decree of the Circuit
Court for the-Eastern District of Louisiana, rendered March 26,
1900, which overruled certain exceptions of the defendant, the
city of New Orleans, to a master's report upon the amounts due
under a decree rendered by the Court of Appeals, May 7, 1898,
and affirmed by this court January 15, 1900. 175 U. S. 120.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirmed by this
court, contained the following paragraphs:
1. That the city of New Orleans was indebted to John G.

