OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

and because the claim was barred by the statutes to which we
have referred.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with a direction to dismiss the bill.
MR. JUSTICE SHIR s and MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

JOHNS v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 67. Submitted November 11, 1900.-Decided March 1, 1901.

Under the practice in Arizona the grantee of a mortgagor, who has agreed
to pay the notes secured by the mortgage, may be held liable for a deficiency upon the sale of the mortgaged premises, in a direct action by the
mortgagee.
In such action the grantee of the original mortgagor is the party primarily
liable to the mortgagee for the debt, the relation of the grantee and mortgagor toward the mortgagee, as well as between themselves, being that
of principal and surety.
Where a decree of foreclosure and sale against the original mortgagor and
his immediate grantee is ineffectual, by reason of the fact that, a few
days before the filing of the bill, the grantee conveyed the premises to a
second grantee by a deed which was withheld from the record until after
the foreclosure proceedings had been begun, a bill will lie to set aside the
sale, to annul the deed upon the ground of fraud, and to decree a new
foreclosure and sale of the same premises.
While it is possible that the mortgagee might have been able to obtain relief by an amended bill in the original suit, a new action is the proper
remedy, where he has been mistaken in his facts, especially if such mistake has been brought about by the contrivance of the legal owners.

THIS was a complaint, in the nature of a bill in equity, under
the Arizona code, filed in the district court of Maricopa County,
by the appellee, Wilson, (who had already, in a prior suit, foreclosed a mortgage upon certain real estate against John M.
Armstrong, mortgagor, and Robert E. Daggs, purchaser of the
premises,) against Alvin L. Johns, subsequent purchaser pen-

JOHNS v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

dente lite of the same premises, and also against William A.
Daggs, tenant in possession, Robert E. Daggs, his landlord,
and A. Jackson Daggs, agent of Robert E., to charge Johns,
and Robert E. Daggs with the payment of the mortgage debt,
for a foreclosure of the mortgage against all the defendants,
for a receiver and for a judgment against all for damages.
The complaint, which was filed June 22, 1895, alleged that
when the former bill foreclosing the mortgage was filed,
April 26, 1894, John M. Armstrong, the mortgagor, and Robert E. Daggs, who purchased the premises December 18, 1893,
were the only parties known to the plaintiff to be liable upon
the notes, or to have any interest whatever in the mortgaged
property; but that the defendants Robert E. Daggs and A. Jackson Daggs, conspiring together to hinder and obstruct the plaintiff in the collection of his mortgage debt, procured a deed of
conveyance of the property from Robert E. Daggs to Johns
for the sole purpose of hindering, delaying and obstructing
him in the collection of his mortgage debt; that the deed,
though dated March 17, 1894, before the proceedings for a foreclosure were beoun, was withheld from record until April 28,
1894, after the summons in the foreclosure action had been
served, and after the lis pendens had been filed; that in this
deed Johns expressly agreed and bound himself to pay the
plaintiff's mortgage debt; that William A. Daggs, who was at
the time of the foreclosure in possession as tenant of Robert E. Daggs, did not advise plaintiff of his surrender of the
premises as tenant of Robert E. Daggs, or of his having
taken possession as the tenant of Johns; and that such
abandonment and release of the property, and the taking possession thereof as tenant of Johns, were done secretly, without any notice to the plaintiff, with intent to deceive him into
the belief that he (William A.) was still holding possession as
tenant of Robert E. Daggs, and that the plaintiff, on account
of such secret transfer of possession, if any was made, was deceived, as the defendant intended him to be, and that the foreclosure action therefore proceeded to judgment without his
joining or making the said Johns and William A. Daggs defendants therein; that plaintiff had no knowledge or informa-

OCTOBER TERI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

tion, when he began his action and filed his lis yendens, that
any other persons than Robert E. Daggs had any claim to the
premises. Wherefore plaintiff prayed for a judgment against
Robert E. Daggs and Alvin L. Johns, who had assumed and
agreed to pay the mortgage debt, for the amount of such debt,
and for the sum of one thousand dollars as damages; that his
mortgage be adjudged unpaid and unsatisfied, and that the same
be foreclosed against all the defendants and all persons holding
under them, and for such further relief as the circumstances of
the case required.
On a hearing upon pleadings and proof a judgment was rendered setting aside the sale had in the foreclosure suit of Wlson v. Armstrong and Daggs, and the satisfaction of the judginent made upon such sale; that the plaintiff Wilson recover of
Robert E. Daggs and Alvin L. Johns, who had assumed and
agreed to pay the mortgage debt, the amount of such debt, declaring such amount, $8541.13, to be a lien upon the property,
which was also foreclosed ; ordering a sale of the premises as
against Robert E. Daggs and Johns, and also finding that appellants had fraudulently conspired together to cheat, wrong and
defraud the appellee, and declaring the deed of Daggs to Johns
to be fraudulent and void. It was further ordered that the
former judgment stand and be carried into effect by a resale of
the property, and in case the proceeds be insufficient to pay the
judgment, that the sheriff make the deficiency out of the other
property of Robert E. Daggs and Johns. The property was
subsequently sold and bid in by the appellee for $2000, leaving
a deficiency of $6861.26. There was no decree for damages.
An appeal whs taken to the Supreme Court of Arizona, which
modified the action of the lower court by omitting therefrom
the personal judgment against Johns for the deficiency, but
otherwise affirming it, 53 Pac. Rep. 583, and, upon an appeal
being taken to this court, made the finding of facts set forth in
the margin.'
1 Finding of Facts.
1. That on the 24th day of April, 1893, one John S. Armstrong executed
a mortgage on certain real estate, described in the complaint herein, to one

JOHNS v. WILSON.

443

Opinion of the Court.

.36. A. J. Daggs for appellants.
3r. D. I. Pinney and
MR. JUSTICE BROWN,

lr. Louis T. Orr for appellee.

after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the right of a mortgagee to relief against
James Wilson, to secure the payment of two certain promissory notes in
said complaint set forth, each being for the sum of $3250.00 and interest,
and dated on said 24th day of April, 1893.
2. That afterwards and on the 18th day of December, 1893, said Armstrong
sold said premises thus mortgaged to defendant (appellant here) R. E. Daggs,
and conveyed the same by certain deed of conveyance, in which said defendant 11. E. Daggs agreed and bound himself, his heirs, executors and assigns, to pay or cause to be paid to the said Wilson the aforesaid notes and
mortgage, under which sale and transfer the said R. E. Daggs entered into
the possession of the said premises by one W. A. Daggs as his tenant.
3. That on the 26th day of April, 1894, default having been made in the
payment of the said notes secured by said mortgage, the said Wilson commenced an action in the district court of Maricopa County against the said
Armstrong and said R. E. Daggs for the recovery of the amount due npon
said notes and for the foreclosure of the mortgage upon the premises aforesaid, and on the same date filed a lis pendens in the office of the recorder of
said county.
4. That at the time of the beginning of said suit the defendant W. A.
Daggs was in the possession of the said premises, and the title to said premises, so far as disclosed by the record, then appeared to be in said R. E.
Daggs.
5. That after personal service upon the defendants R. E. Daggs and J. S.
Armstrong, and default made and entered therein, said action proceeded to
judgment in the said district court on the 8th day of May, 1894, against the
said defendants J. S. Armstrong and R. E. Daggs, for the full amount due,
with costs, and for the foreclosure of the mortgage.
6. That thereafter and on the 6th day of June, 1894, the said premises
were sold by the sheriff of Maricopa County under execution and order of
sale issued upon the said judgment, and were bid in by the plaintiff for the
full amount of his judgment.
That thereafter and on the 12th day of December, 1894, tie said sheriff,
there having been no redemption; executed a deed conveying or purporting
to convey the premises aforesaid to the plaintiff by virtue of said foreclosure sale; and thereafter, upon a demand for possession of the premises by
the said purchaser under said sheriff's deed, the aforesaid W. A. Daggs,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

one who secretly purchased the premises just prior to a bill being filed for the foreclosure of the mortgage, and who withheld
his deed from record until after the summons in the foreclosure
suit had been served, and a listpendens had been filed.
At the time the original foreclosure suit was begun, the dethen being found in possession, refused to surrender the same and claimed
to hold possession thereof as the tenant of one A. L. Johns, and has from
that time to the present continued to hold and occupy said premises and
property as such tenant of A. L. Johns, to the total exclusion of plaintiff
James Wilson.
7. That on the 28th day of April, 1894, after the service of summons
upon said R. E. Daggs in said action and the filing of the lis pendens aforesaid, a deed was placed on record in the office of the county recorder of
said county, which said deed purported to convey the property in question
from said R. E. Daggs to said A. L. Johns, of Chicago, Illinois.
That at the time the demand for possession, as aforesaid, was made by
said Wilson upon the defendant W. A. Daggs, said W. A. Daggs claimed
and asserted that on the first day of April, 1894, he ceased to be the tenant
of R. E. Daggs and thereupon became the tenant of said A. L. Johns,
and took possession of said property for said Jols at said time, and from
that time forward held possession of said premises as the tenant of said
A. L. Johns and not as the tenant of said R. E. Daggs.
8. That at the time of the commencement of said action to foreclose said
mortgage the said plaintiff in said action, James Wilson, had no knowledge
or information whatsoever that any other person than the said R. E. Daggs
and J. S. Armstrong had any claim to said premises.
9. That said defendants R. E. Daggs and A. J. Daggs did conspire together to hinder and obstruct the said James Wilson in the collection of
his said mortgage debt, and to that end did procure the said deed of conveyance from the said R. E. Daggs to said A. L. Johns, and to said end and
for the said purpose did withhold the said deed of conveyance from the
record until after the said foreclosure suit had been begun by the service
of summons upon the defendants therein.
That the said deed from the said P3.E. Daggs to said A. L. Johns was
fraudulent and void as against said James Wilson and as against aforesaid
mortgage, and was made and executed by the said l)aggs and was recorded
by him, the said Daggs, for the purpose of hindering and delaying the
plaintiff in the securing the title and possession to the aforesaid mortgaged
premises and for the purpose of hindering and obstructing and delaying
plaintiff in said foreclosure suit, James Wilson, in the prosecution of said
suit against said John S. Armstrong and R. E. Daggs and for the purpose
of hindering, delaying and obstructing said Wilson in the sale of said
premises and in obtaining satisfaction of his said judgment by process of
law.

JOHNS v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant William A. Daggs was in possession of the premises,
and the title, so far as disclosed by the record, then appeared
to be in Robert E. Daggs. But after it had culminated in a sale
of the premises, June 6, 1894, and the sheriff had executed his
deed December 12, 1894, William A. refused to surrender possession, and claimed to hold as the tenant of Johns, and from
that time continued to hold as such tenant, to the exclusion of
plaintiff.
The Supreme Court found as a fact that the defendants Robert E. and A. Jackson Daggs had conspired together to hinder
and obstruct Wilson in the collection of his mortgage debt, and
to that end procured the deed from Robert E. Daggs to Johns,
and withheld it from record until after the foreclosure suit had
been begun; that such deed was fraudulent and void as against
Wilson, and was executed and recorded by Robert E. Daggs for
the purpose of hindering and delaying the plaintiff in securing
possession of the mortgaged premises, and of obtaining satisfaction of his judgment by process of law.
A large number or errors are separately assigned by the different defendants, but we shall notice only such as were passed
upon by the Supreme Court or pressed upon our attention in
the briefs.
1. The most important is that Robert E. Daggs, the grantee
of the original mortgagor, was not liable in a direct action by
the mortgagee, because no privity of contract was shown between such grantee and the plaintiff mortgagee; and the action
was not brought in the name of, or for the benefit of, the mortgagor Armstrong.
This assignment should be read in connection with the second
finding, which is in substance that, in December, 1893, Armstrong sold to the defendant Robert E. Daggs the premises
previously mortgaged to Wilson, the appellee, and conveyed
the same to him by deed, in which Daggs agreed and bound
himsel f to pay the two notes executed by Armstrong and secured by the mortgage. Under this sale and transfer Daggs
entered into possession of the premises by William A. Daggs,
his tenant. There was also in the deed of March 17, 1894, from
Robert E. Daggs to Alvin L. Johns, as appears from a copy of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the deed sent up with the record, a similar agreement by Johns
to assume and pay the Wilson mortgage; but as the Supreme
Court held this deed to be fraudulent and void, and that there
could be no recovery upon the agreement against Johns, this
deed becomes immaterial. The question is, whether there can
be a personal judgment against Daggs upon the agreement in
Uis deed from Armstrong to pay this mortgage. In the first
decree rendered in the suit of Wilson v. Armstrong and Robert
E. Daggs, there was a personal judgment against Armstrong
upon the notes, which the mortgage was given to secure, and
an order for a foreclosure and sale of the premises; and in case
the proceeds of the sale were insufficient to satisfy the judgment, the sheriff should make the balance out of any other
property of the defendant Armstrong; but there was no personal judgment against Robert E. Daggs. Such judgment was
prayed for and granted in this case.
The question whether a mortgagee can recover against the
grantee of the mortgagor upon a stipulation in his deed from
the mortgagor to assume and pay off the mortgage, as well as
the more general question how far a third party may avail himself of a promise made by the defendant to another party, has
been the subject of much discussion and difference of opinion
in the courts of the several States, but we think the decisions
of this court have practically removed it from the domain of
controversy.
In National Bank v. Grand Lodge, 98 U. S. 123, 124, the Masonic Hall Association, a Missouri corporation, had issued a large
number of bonds which the Grand Lodge had assumed by resolution to pay. The bank brought an action at law against the
Grand Lodge to compel the payment of certain coupons attached
to these bonds, of which it was the holder, and this court held
that it was not entitled to recover, upon the ground that the
holders of the bonds were no parties to the resolution, and there
was no privity of contract between them and the Lodge. In
delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Strong observed:
"We do not propose to enter at large upon a consideration of
the inquiry how far privity of contract between a plaintiff and
defendant is necessary to the maintenance of an action of as-

JOHNS v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

sumpsit. The subject has been much debated, and the decisions
are not all reconcilable. No doubt the general rule is that such
a privity must exist. But there are confessedly many exceptions to it. One of them, and by far the most frequent one, is
the case where, under a contract between two persons, assets
have come to the promiser's hands or under his control which
in equity belong to a third person. In such a case it is held
that the third person may sue in his own name. But then the
suit is founded rather on the implied undertaking the law raises
from the possession of the assets, than on the express promise."
Kelr v. Ashfbrd, 133 U. S. 610, was a bill in equity by Keller, the mortgagee, against Ashford, the grantee of the land
subject to this mortgage, which lie had agreed to pay. It was
held after full examination of the authorities, first, that the
mortgagee could not sue at law, citing National Bank v. Grand
Lodge, 98 U. S. 123, and Crayin v. 1ovel, 109 U. S. 194; second, that in equity, as at law, the contract of the purchaser to
pay the mortgage, being made with the mortgagor and for his
benefit only, creates no direct obligation of the purchaser to
the mortgagee; but, third, that under the equitable doctrine
that a creditor shall have the benefit of any obligation or security given by the principal to the surety for the payment of the
debt, the mortgagee was entitled to avail him self of an agreement in a deed of conveyance from the mortgagor, by which
the grantee promised to pay the mortgage. This is upon the
theory that the purchaser of land subject to the mortgage becomes the principal debtor, and the liability of the vendor, as
between the parties, is that of surety.
In Willard v. Wood, 135 U. S. 309, in error to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, it was held that the question
whether the remedy of the mortgagee against the grantee of
the mortgagor to enforce an agreement contained in the deed
to him to pay the mortgage debt, be at law or in equity, was
governed by the lexfori, and that in the District of Columbia
such remedy was by bill in equity only.
In Union Jutual Life _,s. 0o. v. ffavford, 143 U. S. 187,
it was said to be "the settled law of this court, that the grantee
is not directly liable to the mortgagee, at law or in equity; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the only remedy of the mortgagee against the grantee is by a
bill in equity in the right of the mortgagor and grantor, by
virtue of the right in equity of a creditor to avail himself of
any security which his debtor holds from a third person for the
p)ayment of the debt." The court restated the rule laid down
in Villard v. lfood, 135 U. S. 309, that the question of the
remedy of the mortgagee, whether at law or in equity, was to
be decided by the law of the place where the suit was brought.
The material question in that case was whether the giving of
time to the grantee, without the assent of the grantor, discharged
the latter from personal liability. It was held that it did, citing
Shepherd v. iay, 115 U. S. 505.
As, however, under the Arizona code, there is no distinction
between suits at law and in equity, we see no reason to doubt
that this action will lie. Indeed, in Ililliams v. aftgzyer, 103
California, 438, the Supreme Court of California, whose code
was practically adopted by the legislature of Arizona, thought
an agreement on the part of the grantee to pay and discharge
a mortgage debt upon the granted premises, for which his
grantor was liable, renders the grantee liable therefor to the
mortgagee; and in an action for a foreclosure of the mortgage,
if the mortgaged premises are insufficient to satisfy the mortgage debt, judgment may be rendered against him as well as
against the mortgagor for the amount of such deficiency, citing
Keller v. Ashford, 133 U. S. 610, 622.
2. Further objection is made to this proceeding upon the
ground that it is not shown that the mortgagor "had been exhausted," or that he is insolvent. If by this is meant that, after
the sale of the property, the mortgagee is bound primarily to
proceed against the mortgagor personally for any deficiency,
the position is inconsistent with the doctrine of the cases above
cited, in which it is assumed that the purchaser, who has agreed
to pay the mortgage, is the principal debtor, and the mortgagor
is surety. This view is thus concisely stated by Mr. Justice
Gray in Union Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Ianford,143 U. S. 187,
190: "The grantee, as soon as the mortgagee knows of the
arrangement, becomes directly and primarily liable to the mortgagee for the debt for which the mortgagor was already liable

JOHNS v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

to the latter, and the relation of the grantee and grantor toward
the mortgagee, as well as between themselves, is thenceforth
that of principal and surety for the payment of the mortgage
debt." Undoubtedly the mortgaged property must first be applied to the payment of the debt. This was done. The judgment, though nominally against Daggs for the amount of the
mortgage debt, contemplated in subsequent paragraphs that the
sheriff should only make the balance out of the property of
the defendant Daggs, in case the proceeds of the sale were insufficient to pay the judgment. This, too, was the language of
the order of sale.
In the case of Biddel v. Brizzolara, 64 California, 354, relied
upon by the appellants, the general principle was recognized
that, where a purchaser of real estate from the mortgagor assumes payment of the mortgage debt, a cause of action arises,
upon the principle of subrogation, in favor of the mortgagee,
which he may enforce at any time within the life of his mortgage by a suit against the purchaser. In that case, however,
it was held there could be no recovery, because the statute
of limitations had run against the mortgage debt, and because
the purchaser had reconveyed the mortgaged property to the
mortgagor prior to the commencement of the action. As Armstrong could have recovered against Robert E. Daggs any deficiency he had been obliged to pay, the plaintiff could proceed
against Daggs directly for such deficiency.
It is true that William A. Daggs was not made a party to the
prior foreclosure bill, but his only claim to the property was
that of tenant, either of Robert E. Daggs or of Johns. Robert
E. Daggs was made a party to that bill, and Johns is made a
party to this. We fail to see how either of them is prejudiced
by William A. Daggs not being made a party to the former
bill.
3. The seventh assignment, that no reason is shown for not
applying for relief in the former foreclosure suit, appears to be
based upon the theory that the former judgment is conclusive
against the parties to the action, and that the plaintiff has no
legal right to a second foreclosure. While it is true that, if the
plaintiff had sought to foreclose the right of William A. Daggs
VOL. CLXXX-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to this property, he should have been made a party to the former foreclosure, it is difficult to see how Johns would have been
affected by a decree against Daggs, unless he also had been made
a party. That he was not made such party is explained by the
fact that his deed had not been put upon record, and that it was
impossible for the plaintiff to have known, from aught that
appeared to him, that Johns was the owner of the property.
Where the mortgagee has no knowledge and no means of knowing that the mortgaged property has been sold by the person in
whose name it stands of record, especially where such sale is
brought about by a fraudulent conspiracy between the vendor
and vendee, and the conveyance is withheld from record for
the purpose of misleading the mortgagee, we know of no objection to a second foreclosure for the purpose of terminating
the rights of the vendee. As stated in Jones on Mortgages,
section 1679 : " If the owner of the equity has, through mistake, not been made a party, the mortgagee who has purchased
at the sale may maintain a second action to foreclose the equity
of such owner, and for a new sale, but he cannot recover the
cost of the previous sale." Bank v. Abbott, 20 Wisconsin, 570;
Stacepole v. Robbins, 47 Barb. 212; Shirk v. Andrews, 92 Indiana, 509; Brackett v. Ban egas, 116 California, 278; i[orey
v. City of Duluth, 69 Minnesota, 5; Benedict v. Gilman, 4
Paige, 58; Georgia Pacifc Railroad v. Walker, 61 Mississippi, 481.
While it is possible that the mortgagee might have been able
to obtain relief by an amended bill in the original suit, a new
action is a proper remedy where he has been mistaken in his
facts, especially if such mistake has been brought about by the
contrivance of the legal owners. Appellants apparently proceed upon the assumption that the possession of William A.
Daggs was not only notice of his own rights to the property,
and of his tenancy under Robert E. Daggs, the record owner,
but also of the ownership of Johns, whose title did not appear
of record, and of which the mortgagee had no actual notice.
We cannot acquiesce in this assumption. It is true that plaintiff asserts in his complaint that, two days after his original
bill of foreclosure was filed, William A. Daggs "claimed and

JOHNS v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

asserted" (to whom is not stated) that he had abandoned the
premises as tenant of Robert E. Daggs to become the tenant
of Johns. Under such circumstances, the plaintiff, if he knew
of it, should have at once filed an amended bill; but his failure to do so does not seem to have resulted to the prejudice
of any of the defendants, nor can it be said that plaintiff has
lost his rights, except to the costs of the first suit, by failing
to do so. An amended or supplemental bill is rather an alternative than an only remedy, and a failure to pursue this course
ought not to debar him from resorting to another bill. White
v. Secor, 58 Iowa, 533; Bottneau v. --Etna Iife Ins. Co., 31
Minnesota, 125; Rogers v. Benton, 39 Minnesota, 39; Foster
v. Johnson, 44 Minnesota, 290; Stackpole v. Robbins, 48 N. Y.
665; .Xoulton v. Cornish, 138 N. Y. 133; Dodge v. Omaha
Southwestern Railroad Co., 20 Nebraska, 276.
Defendants also claim a misjoinder of causes of action, in
that the plaintiff sues Daggs not only for a breach of his contract of assumption of the notes set out in the complaint, and
to foreclose the mortgage lien, but upon an alleged conspiracy,
wherein he charges him with colluding with A. Jackson Daggs
to withhold the deed to Johns from record, and prays damages
in the sum of one thousand dollars for a refusal to surrender
possession. As there was no recovery, however, upon this
claim, we think it has become immaterial to consider whether
there was a misjoinder. The same comment may be made upon
the alleged misjoinder of parties.
We have examined the remaining assignments of error, of
which there are a large number, contained in appellants' brief,
and find them to turn upon questions of facts or as to the admission or rejection of testimony, which are foreclosed by the
findings of the Supreme Court, or upon the alleged defects in
procedure, which were not deemed to be of sufficient importance to be noticed in the opinion of that court. We find in
none of them any sound reason for disturbing this judgment,
and it is therefore
Afflrmed.

