OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 167. Argued October 19,22, 1900.-Decided March 18, 1901.
The decisions of the highest court of a State upon the question whether a
particular act was passed in such manner as to become, under the state
constitution, a law, should be accepted and followed by the Federal
courts.
The principle reaffirmed that the recital in municipal bonds of a wrong act
as authority for their being issued does not preclude a holder of such
bond from showing that independently of such act there was power to
issue the bonds.
The rule reaffirmed that the question arising in a suit in a Federal court
of the power of a municipal corporation under existing laws to make negotiable securities is to be determined by the law as judicially declared
by the highest court of the State at the time the securities were issued,
and that the rights and obligations of parties accruing under such a state
of the law would not be affected by a different course of judicial decisions
subsequently rendered any more than by subsequent legislation.
THE ultimate question in this case is whether the county of
Wilkes, North Carolina, is liable upon certain bonds issued in
1889 in payment of a subscription in its name to the capital
stock of the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company.
Each bond was in the usual form of such instruments, was
made payable October 1, 1913, and recited that it was "one
of a series of one hundred bonds of the denomination of one
thousand dollars each, issued by authority of an act of the
General Assembly of North Carolina, ratified the 20th day of
February, A. D. 1879, entitled 'An act to amend the charter of
the North Western North Carolina Railroad for the construction of a second division from the towns of Winston and Salem,
in Forsyth County, up the Yadkin Valley, by Wilkesboro, to
Patterson's Factory, Caldwell County,' and authorized by a
vote of a majority of the qualified voters of Wilkes County, by
an election regularly held for that purpose on the 6th day of

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Statement of the Case.

November, A. D. 1888, and by an order of the Board of Commissioners of Wilkes County made on the first day of April,
A. D. 1889. This series of bonds is issued to pay the subscription of one hundred thousand dollars made to the capital stock
of the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company by
said county of Wilkes."
The question of a subscription by Wilkes County to the extent of $100,000 to the stock of that company, to be paid in
bonds, was submitted to a popular vote and a majority of the
qualified voters approved of the proposition. Taxes were imposed and collected for eight years to pay the interest on the
bonds and the amounts collected were so applied; but the
county officers refused to pay the interest due and payable
April 1, 1896, April 1, 1898, and October 1, 1898, although they
had in their hands moneys collected from taxpayers for that
purpose. The object of the present suit was to compel those
officers to apply the moneys so collected in payment of such
interest.
Was the act of 1879-which was recited in the bonds as authority for their being issued-passed by the legislature in such
manner as to become a law of North Carolina? Was there
power to issue the bonds without the aid of that enactment?
These are the principal matters involved in or depending upon
our answer to the certified questions.
The material facts upon which the decision of the case depends are as follows:
The Convention that assembled at Raleigh, North Carolina,
on January 14, 1868, for the purpose of framing a constitution
for that State concluded its labors on March 16, of the same
year. The constitution adopted by that body was ratified
April 24, 1868, and was approved by Congress, June 25, 1868.
15 Stat. 73, c. 70.
A few days prior to its final adjournment, namely, on the 9th
day of March, 1868, the Convention passed an ordinance (which,
by its terms, was to take effect from its passage) that constituted
the charter of the North Western North Carolina Railroad
Company. The company was incorporated by the ordinance
for the purpose of constructing a railroad of one or more tracks

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

from some point on the North Carolina Railroad between the
town of Greensboro in Guilford County and the town of Lexing-.
ton in Davidson County, running by way of Salem and Winston
in Forsyth County "to some point in the northwestern boundary
line of the State to be hereafter determined."
By the 5th section of the ordinance it was provided that
after the organization of the company its officers should proceed "to locate the eastern terminus of the North Western
North Carolina Railroad, and shall proceed to construct said
road, with one or more tracks, as speedily as practicable, in
sections of five miles each, to the towns of Winston and Salem,
in Forsyth County, which portion of said railroad, when completed, shall constitute its first division."
By the 12th section it was declared that "all counties or towns
subscribing stock to said company shall do so in the same manner and under the same rules, regulations and restrictionsas are
set forth and prescribed in the act incorporating the North
Carolina and Atlantic Railroad Company, for the government
of such towns and counties as are now allowed to subscribe to
the capital stock of said company;" and by section 13, that
"the company shall have power to construct branches of said
road, one of which shall run from the towns of Winston and
Salem by way of Mount Airy, in Surry County, to the line of
the State of Virginia."
The North Carolina and Atlantic Railroad Company referred
to in the 12th section was the Atlantic and North Carolina
Railroad Company incorporated by an act of assembly approved December 27, 1852. By the 33d section of the charter
of that company it was declared to "be lawful for any incorporated town or county near or through which said railroad
may pass to subscribe for such an amount of stock in said company as they shall be authorized to do by the inhabitants of said
town or the citizens of said county, in manner and form as
hereinafter provided." Provision was made (§ 34) in the same
act to take the sense of the qualified voters of any town or
county upon the question of a subscription by it to the stock
of the company, and it was declared (§ 35) that if a majority
of the qualified voters of any county or town voting upon

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Statement of the Case.

the question were in favor of the subscription, the corporate
authorities of the town and the justices of the county should
appoint an agent to make the subscription in behalf of such
town and county, to "be paid for in the bonds of such town and
county, and on such time as shall be agreed on by said town
officers and the justices of such county." Laws North Carolina, 1852, pp. 484, 499.
By an act of assembly of August 11, 1868, the ordinance of
March 9, 1868, was reenacted, ratified and confirmed. By the
same act also the commissioners of Forsyth County were invested with authority to levy from time to time such tax as was
sufficient to pay the subscriptions made to the capital stock of
the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company, and any
interest due thereon, or to liquidate any debt created in borrowing money to pay the subscription of stock. At the end of that
act as published are the words, "Ratified the 11th day of August, A. D. 1868."
By the first section of the above act of February 20, 1879, it
was declared that "section 13 of chapter 17 of the ordinance of
the Convention of 1868, ratified the 9th day of March, 1868, be
amended by adding the words - ' and one of which shall be constructed from the town of Winston and Salem, up the valley of
the Yadkin by the way of Jonesville and Wilkesboro, in the
county of Wilkes, to Patterson's Factory, in the county of Caldwell, which branch shall be known as the second division.'"
By the first and second sections the ordinance of 1868 was further amended in particulars that need not be mentioned. By
the fourth section it was provided: "That any township or city,
town, county or other municipal corporation of this State shall
have power and authority to subscribe for and take any number
of shares of capital stock of said company that a majority of
the voters of such township or city, town, county or other municipal corporation may elect to take therein." After prescribing the mode in which the will of the people as to a subscription of stock should be ascertained, that section proceeded: "If
the result of any such election shall show that a majority of the
qualified voters of any township or city, town, county or other
municipal corporation, favor the taking of the amount of stock

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

so voted for in such election, then the authorities who, by this
act, are empowered to determine what amount of stock shall be
taken, shall subscribe the amount of stock so voted for in said
company, and shall have power to levy and collect taxes for that
special purpose to pay for the said stock in installments as the
same may become due, or, in case it shall not be deemed best to
collect taxes to pay by taxation such subscription for stock, then
such township or city, town, county or other municipal corporation shall have power to issue bonds for the purpose of raising
money to pay for such subscription, and shall provide for the
payment of interest upon such bonds, and also for the payment
of said bonds when they become due: . . . " At the close
of that act, as published, are these words: " Read three times
in the General Assembly and ratified the 20th day of February,
A. D. 1879."
Another act was passed March 2, 1881. By that act the
North Western North Carolina Railroad Company was authorized to extend and construct its line of road, or a branch thereof,
to commence at or near Winston, in the county of Forsyth,
through the counties of Forsyth, Davidson, Yadkin, Davie,
Rowan and Iredell, or any or either of them, to Statesville, or
some other point on the Western North Carolina Railroad, and
to build and operate additional branches thereto, or from its
present main line, to any important mines or manufactories in
any of said counties, or counties adjacent to them; and any
corporation, county, city, town or township interested therein
was empowered to subscribe to stock for those purposes, or otherwise contribute to the work in such manner and amount as should
be determined by the proper authorities of such corporation,
county, city, town or township, and agreed on with the said
North Western North Carolina Railroad Company. At the close
of that act, as published, are the words: "In the General Assembly, read three times and ratified this the 2d day of March,
A. D. 1881."
The validity under the constitution of the State of each of
the above acts of March 11, 1868, February 20, 1879, and
March 2, 1881, was questioned upon grounds presently to be
stated.

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Counsel for Parties.

In the Circuit Court judgment was rendered in favor of the
plaintiffs, Coler & Co., who were found to be bonafide holders
for value of some of the bonds. The case was carried to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and is now here upon questions certified under the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
The certified questions are as follows:
"1. Whether, upon the averments of the bill of complaint,
answers, replications, orders, exhibits, and other evidence, and
matters and things recited herein, the Circuit Court of the United States was bound in passing upon this case by the decisions
of the Supreme Court of North Carolina in the following cases:
Commissioners of Wilkes Coun.y v. Clarence Call et al., 123
N. C. 308; Bank v. Commissioners, 119 N. C. 214; Commissioners v. Snuggs, 121 IN. C. 394; Rodrnan v. IVashinyton, 122
N. C. 39 ; Commissioners v. Payne, 123 N. C. 432, considered
in connection with prior decisions of said court and the following provisions of the constitution of said State: Article 2, sections 14 and 16, and Article 5, sections 1, 4, 6, and 7, and Article 7, section 7.
"2. Whether, if the bonds and coupons in question were
issued, put in circulation, and came to the hands of complainants, appellees, in due course of trade, for valuable consideration and without notice, and if there were at that time no
decision of the Supreme Court of North Carolina adverse to
these bonds or identical bonds issued under similar statutes,
the bonds held by complainants are valid bonds.
"3. Whether there was any decision adverse to the validity
of these bonds or identical bonds or any construction of the
constitution or law of North Carolina which affected the question of their validity when they came in due course of trade
and for valuable consideration and without notice other than
such notice as the parties are assumed to have of existing provisions in the constitution and statutes of the State of their
invalidity."
Ar. A. C. Avery for the Board of Commissioners of Wilkes
County.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xr. John ly. Dillon and _1r. Charles Price for Coler & Co.
Mr. -Harry ffubbard and _fr. John I1f. Dillon were on Mr.
Dillon's brief.
21r. R. O. Burton on behalf of the Commissioners of Oxford, and Jfr. James E Shepherd on behalf of the Commissioners of Stanly County, each filed a brief by leave of court.
M . JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts as above stated,
delivered the opinion of the court.

This being the case disclosed by the record, we proceed in
our examination of such matters involved in the certified questions as are presented with sufficient distinctness to require notice at our hands.
The county insists that the bonds in question were issued in
violation of the 14th section of Article 2 of the constitution of
the State, which is in these words: "No law shall be passed to
raise money on the credit of the State or to pledge the faith of
the State, directly or indirectly, for the payment of any debt,
or to impose any tax upon the people of the State, or to allow
the counties, cities or towns to do so, unless the bill for the
purpose shall have been read three several times in each house
of the General Assembly, and passed three several readings,
which readings shall have been on three different days, and
agreed to by each house respectively, and unless the yeas and
nays on the second and third reading of the bill shall have been
entered on the journal."
In support of the above proposition reliance is placed upon
the cases named in the first of the certified questions.
We are asked whether the Circuit Court was bound to follow
those decisions when considered in connection with prior decisions of the Supreme Court of North Carolina and with the
above and other provisions of the state Constitution, by one
of which it is declared that "each house shall keep a journal of
its proceedings, which shall be printed and made public inmediately after the adjournment of the General Assembly."
Art. 2, § 16.

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

Premising that the journals of the two houses were put in
evidence and that it did not appear therefrom that the yeas
and nays, on the second and third readings of the acts of 1868,
1879 and 1881, respectively, were entered on the legislative
journals, let us inquire as to the scope of the decisions in the
above cases.
In Bank v. Commissioners, 119 N. C. 214, 220 (1896), which
involved the validity under the 14th section of the state constitution of an act passed in 1891 authorizing a municipal subscription to the stock of a railroad company and the issuing of
bonds in payment thereof, it was said: "This section of the
constitution is imperative and not recommendatory, and must
be observed; otherwise this wise and necessary precaution inserted in the organic law would be converted into a nullity by
judicial construction. . . . The point is one of transcendent importance, and is simply whether the people, in their organic law, can safeguard the taxpayers against the creation of
state, county and town indebtedness by formalities not required
for ordinary legislation, and must the courts and the legislature
respect those provisions ? This safeguard is section 14 of Article 2 of the constitution. . . . The journals offered in evidence show affirmatively that ' the yeas and nays on the second
and third reading of the bill' were not 'entered on the journal.'
And the constitution, the supreme law, says that, unless so
entered, no law authorizing State, counties, cities or towns to
pledge the faith of the State or to impose any tax upon the
people, etc., shall be valid. .
.
The people had the power
to protect themselves by requiring in the organic law something
further as to acts authorizing the creation of bonded indebtedness by the State and its counties, cities and towns than the
fact certified to by the speakers of three readings in each house,
and ratification. This organic provision plainly requires, for
the validity of this class of legislation, in addition to the certificates of the speakers, which is sufficient for ordinary legislation, the entry, of the yeas and nays on the journals on the
second and third reading in each house. It is provided that
such laws are ' no laws,' i. e., are void unless the bill for the
purpose shall have been read three several times in each house
VOL. CLXXX-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the General Assembly and passed three several readings,
which readings shall have been on three different days, and
agreed to by each house respectively, and unless the yeas and
nays on the second and third reading qf the bill shall have been
entered on the journal. This is a clear declaration of the nullity of such legislation unless this is done, and every holder of
a state or municipal bond is conclusively fixed with notice of
this requirement as an essential to the validity of his bond. If
he buys without ascertaining that constitutional authority to
issue the bond has thus been given, he has only himself to blame.
I Dill. Mun. Corp. 545, and cases cited. It is certainly in the
power of the sovereign people in framing their constitution to
require as a prerequisite for the validity of this class of legislation these precautions and the additional evidence in the journals that they have been complied with, over and above the
mere certificate of the speakers which is sufficient for other
legislation. That the organic law does require the additional
forms and the added evidence of the journals is plain beyond
power of controversy. . . . The certificate of the speakers is not good for more than it certified, i. e., that the bill
has been read three times in each house and ratified. And
ordinarily that makes the bill a law. But for this class of legislation the constitution provides that the facts thus certified
by the speakers will make no law unless it further appears that
the yeas and nays have been recorded on the journals on the
second and third reading in each house. The constitution
makes the entry on the journals essential to the validity of the
act."
These principles were again announced in Commissioners v.
Snuggs, 121 N. C. 394, 398 (1897), which also involved the
validity of county bonds issued in payment of a subscription
to the capital stock of a railroad corporation. It appeared
that the act relied on as authority for issuing them passed its
third reading in the House of Representatives without any entry on the journal of the yeas and nays. The court said : "We
are of opinion that it was competent to introduce the House
journal as proof that the acts referred to were not passed according to the requirements of the constitution, and they estab-

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

lished that fact. That provision of the constitution (section 14
of Article 2) is mandatory, as we have decided in Bank v. Commi8sioner8, 119 N. C. 214. It is the protection which the people, in convention, have thrown around themselves for the benefit
of the minority as well as the majority. . . . The bill may,
in point of fact, have been read three several times on three different days, and the yeas and nays have been actually called on
the second and third readings and the presiding officers may have
certified thereto, and yet, if the entry of the yeas and nays is
not actually made on the journal, the constitution speaking
with absolute clearness says that the failure of such entry is
absolutely fatal to the validity of the act. The entry, showing
who voted on the bill and how they voted, must be made before
the bill can ever become a law. The constitution does not allow
the certificate of the presiding officers or any other power to
cure such an omission. The certificate of these officers will be
taken as conclusive of the several readings in ordinary legislation, even if it could be made to appear that the journals were
silent in reference thereto, because, in ordinary legislation, the
directions of the constitution are not a condition precedent to
the validity of the act. But, in that class of legislation, the
purpose of which is to legislate under section 14 of Article 2
of the constitution, a literal compliance with the language of
that section is a condition precedent and one which must be
performed in its entirety before the bill can ever become a
law."
These two decisions were followed in Rodman v. Washington, 122 N. C. 39, 41 (1898), and Commissioners v. Payne, 123
N. C. 432, 487 (1898).
The same question arose in Commissioners of Wilkes County
v. Call, 123 N. C. 308, 310 (1898). That case involved the validity of the identical issue of bonds that are here in suit.
Referring to its former decisions, above cited, the court said:
"Under the authority of those decisions we are compelled to
hold that the entire issue of these bonds is null and void for
want of legislative authority. An act of the legislature passed
in violation of the constitution of the State, or in disregard to
its mandatory provisions, is to the extent of such repugnance

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

absolutely void; and all bonds issued thereunder bear the brand
of illegality stamped upon their face by the hand of the law.
The act under which these bonds profess to have been issued
[the above act of February 20, 1879] was never legally passed
and never became a law."
To the above cases we may add that of State v. Patterson,
98 N. C. 660, 662, 664, determined in 1887 before the bonds in
question were issued. That was an indictment for selling spirituous liquors in a certain county wherein sales were prohibited
by a supposed statute. Priv. Acts, N. C. 1887, c. 113, § 8.
The defendant, under the plea of not guilty, claimed that the
statute cited was void, because it had no enacting clause, that
is the words, " The General Assembly of North Carolina do
enact." The court, referring in its opinion to the constitutional
provision that "the style of the acts shall be, 'The General
Assembly of North Carolina do enact,'" Art. 2, § 21, and to
the provision "that all bills and resolutions of a legislative
nature shall be read three times in each house, before they pass
into laws, and shall be signed by the presiding officers of both
houses," Art. 2, § 23, held that the statute under which the
prosecution was inaugurated was not a law. The court, among
other things, said: "It thus appears that its framers, and the
people who ratified it, deemed such provisions wise and important, the purpose being to require every legislative act of the
legislature to purport and import upon its face to have been
enacted by the General Assembly, and to be further authenticated by the signatures of the presiding officers of the two
houses comprising that body. The purpose of thus prescribing
an enacting clause-' the style of the acts '-is to establish the
act-to give it permanence, uniformity and certainty-to identify the act of legislation as of the General Assembly-to afford
evidence of its legislative, statutory nature, and to secure uniformity of identification, and thus prevent inadvertence, possible mistake and fraud. Such purpose is important of itself, and
as it is of the constitution, a due observance of it is essential.
The manner of the enactment of a statute is of its substance.
This is so in the nature of the matter, as well as because the
constitution makes it so."

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

After the decision in State v. Patterson,rendered as above
stated before the bonds in suit were issued, it might have been
anticipated that the same court would hold as they did in the
subsequent cases above cited that the entering of the yea and
nay vote on the second and third readings of an act of the class
mentioned in section 14 of Article 2 of the state constitution
was a condition precedent that could not be dispensed with
under any circumstances.
The defendants however contend that by the decisions of the
Supreme Court of North Carolina, as those decisions stood at
the time the bonds were issued, a person consulting the laws of
the State was not bound to examine the journals of the legislature and ascertain at his peril whether such acts had been passed
in the particular manner prescribed by the constitution; that
every one could properly assume that the act of February 20,
1879, signed by the proper officers, and enrolled and published
as one of the statutes of the State, was passed in conformity
with the constitutional provision as to the entry on the journal
of the yea and nay vote on the second and third readings of a
bill.
The North Carolina cases cited by the defendants in support
of this proposition are Brodnax v. Groom, 64 N. C. 244 (1870),
Gatlin v. Town of Tarboro, 78 N. C. 119 (1878), and Searborough v. Robinson, 81 N. C. 409 (1879). Let us see what was
involved in those cases.
In Brodnax v. Groom it was held that the courts could not
go behind an enrolled act, duly certified by the presiding officers
of the two houses of assembly, to ascertain whether there had
been a compliance with the 12th section of Article 2 of the
state constitution providing that the "General Assembly shall
not pass any private law unless it shall be made to appear thirty
days' notice of application to pass such a law shall have been
given, under such direction and in such manner as shall be provided by law."
In Gatlin v. Town of Tarboro, the question was as to the
validity of a tax levied by a town, which was resisted on the
ground that the act was private and had been passed without
any notice of the application as required by the constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

(Art. 2, § 12), and was therefore void-the parties admitting
that no such notice was given. The court said: "As to the second point: If it appeared from the act itself, or affirmatively
appeared by the journals of the legislature, which would have
been competent evidence, that the notice of the intended application for the act, which the constitution requires, had not
been given, we should probably hold the act void. We have
not consulted the journals. That was evidence to be offered in
the court below. Probably they are silent as to the fact whether
it appeared that the required notice had been given or not. In
that case we think the presumption would be that the legislature had obeyed the constitution, and that it appeared that notice
had been given. 'Omnia preesumunturrite esse acta.' We cannot
accept the agreement of the parties that no notice was in fact
given, as proof that it did not appear to the legislature that the
required notice had been given. In such a case the best and
only proof is by the record. Our opinion on this point is supported by a recent decision in Illinois. Ilrappel v. Brethan r,
70 Ill. 166. If any weight were allowed to admissions of this
sort, the law might change as each case was presented. Our
opinion on this point renders it unnecessary to determine whether
the act was technically a public or private one."
In Scarborough v. Robinson, the issue presented was as to the
power of the court to compel the presiding officers of the two
houses to sign an act to the end that it might be authenticated
-it being alleged that the bill had been duly ratified by the
two houses as shown by their respective journals. That case
arose under section 23 of Article 2 of the state constitution
providing that all bills and resolutions of a legislative nature
should be read three times in each house, before they pass into
laws, "and shall be signed by the presiding officers of both
houses." Preliminary to the decision of the question really
involved in that case the court made some general observations
upon the question whether the existence and validity of a statute
should depend "upon the uncertain results of an inquiry made
in each particular case, whether the provisions of the constitution directing the mode of legislative proceedings have been
followed in the action of the two houses in passing a bill through

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

its different stages of progress." But it was added that the
determination of that question was not necessary to a decision
of the application before the court. It was then decided, and
nothing more was decided than, that "the signatures of the
presiding officers of the two houses, under and by force of the
words used in our constitution, are an essential prerequisite
to the existence of the statute-the finishing and perfecting act
of legislation-and must be affixed during the session of the
General Assembly." Upon that ground only the application
for a mandamus was denied.
It thus appears that no one of the cases cited by defendants
involved a construction of section 14 of Article 2 of the state
constitution. Those cases arose under other provisions of the
constitution. It is true that in Scarborough v. Robinson, there
are general expressions touching questions adverted to but
not decided, that lend apparent support to the contention that
the North Carolina decisions rendered after the issuing of the
bonds in suit were not, in all particulars, in harmony with what
was said by the state court in prior cases. But such general
expressions as to matters expressly excluded from decision are
not authority and reference must be had to the points in judgment.
In view of the cases determined by the highest court of North
Carolina involving the precise point now under consideration,
was the Circuit Court of the United States justified in holding
the acts of 1868, 1879 and 1881 to be laws of the State? Observe that the issue is not as to the construction, meaning or
scope of a statute, but whether that which purports to be a
legislative enactment ever became a law for any purpose.
May a Federal court disregard the decisions of the highest
court of the State holding that such enactment, in the form of
a statute, was never passed so as to become, under the state
constitution, a law?
These questions have been so distinctly answered by this court
in cases heretofore decided that a discussion of them upon principle is unnecessary.
In Town of South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260, 267, 268,
which was an action upon municipal bonds, the question was

OCTO13ER TERiM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

whether any such statute ever existed as that under the authority of which the bonds there in suit purported to have been
issued. It was contended that as the bonds were held by a
bonafide purchaser for value, and as the town sued had paid
the first instalment of interest, it was estopped from offering
any evidence that the act under the authority of which the bonds
purported to have been issued was not legally passed, the same
having been duly published among the printed statutes as a law,
and being therefore prima facie a valid law; in other words,
that althoug h the act might not have been duly passed, the town,
under the circumstances of the case, was estopped from denying
its passage. This court said: "We cannot assent to this view.
There can be no estoppel in the way of ascertaining the existence of a law. That which purports to be a law of a State is
a law, or it is not a law, according as the truth of the fact may
be, and not according to the shifting circumstances of parties.
It would be an intolerable state of things if a document purporting to be an act of the legislature could thus be a law in
one case and for one party, and not a law in another case for
another party; a law to-day, and not a law to-morrow; a law
in one place, and not a law in another in the same State. And
whether it be a law, or not a law, is a judicial question, to be
settled and determined by the courts and judges. The doctrine
of estoppel is totally inadmissible in the case. It would be a very
unseemly state of things, after the courts of Illinois have determined that a pretended statute of that State is not such, having
never been constitutionally passed, for the courts of the United
States, with the same evidence before them, to hold otherwise."
"As a matter of propriety and right, the decisions of the state
courts on the question as to what are the laws of the State is
binding upon those of the United States. But the law under
consideration has been passed upon by the. Supreme Court of
Illinois, and held to be invalid. This ought to have been sufficient to govern the action of the court below. In our judgment, it was not necessary to have raised an issue on the subject,
except by demurrer to the declaration. The court is bound to
know the law without asking the advice of a jury on the subject. When once it became the settled construction of the con-

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution of Illinois that no act can be deemed a valid law unless,
by the journals of the legislature, it appears to have been regularly passed by both houses, it became the duty of the courts to
take judicial notice of the journal entries in that regard. The
courts of Illinois may decline to take that trouble, unless parties
bring the matter to their attention; but, on general principles,
the question as to the existence of a law is a judicial one, and
must be so regarded by the courts of the United States."
These principles were reaffirmed in Post v. Supervisors (Amoskeag Bank v. Ottawa), 105 U. S. 667.
It is said, however, that the Circuit Court of the United States
could not have followed the cases referred to in the certified
questions without departing from the principles announced by
this court in Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 671, 672. This point
deserves examination.
In the present case, the express mandate of the constitution
of North Carolina is that " no law shall be passed . . . to
impose any tax upon the people of the State or to allow the
counties, cities or towns to do so . . . unless the bill for
that purpose shall have been read three several times in each
house of the General Assembly, and passed three several readings, which readings shall have been on three different days,
and agreed to by each house respectively, and unless the yeas
and nays on the second and third reading of the bill shall have
been entered on the journal." Whether the absence from the
journal of entries showing the required number of readingsof a
bill, on three different days, will be notice to all that the legislature has not conformed to the requirements of the constitution in respect of such readings, is a question that need not be
decided in this case. As the state constitution does not expressly require those facts to be entered on the journal of legislative proceedings, it may be that when an enrolled bill, certified
and duly authenticated by the presiding officers of the two
houses, is approved by the Governor, it is to be conclusively
presumed that the constitution was complied with as to the
mere readings of the bill. Without however expressing any
opinion on that question, we remark that no such conclusive
presumption can arise to defeat the express constitutional in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

hibition upon the passage of an act authorizing a county, city
or town to impose taxes upon its people unless " the yeas and
nays on the second and third reading of the bill shall have been
entered on the journal." The object of that provision was to
make such an entry on the journal a condition precedent to any
legislation imposing taxes on the people. Every one who took
municipal bonds to be paid by means of taxation authorized by
the legislature was bound to know, from the face of the constitution, that there was a want of power to issue such bonds and
to impose such taxation, if the yeas and nays on the second and
third readings of the bill were not entered on the journal. The
constitutional requirement in that matter could not be dispensed
with by the act of the presiding officers of the two houses of the
General Assembly in certifying a bill as passed when the journal
did not contain entries showing that to have been (lone which
was necessary to be done before there was power to enact the
bill into a law. These are the grounds upon which the Supreme
Court of North Carolina have rested their decisions in the cases
referred to in the first of the certified questions.
The case of Fieldv. Clarl was altogether different. In that
case it was contended that a certain enrolled act of Congress in
the custody of the Secretary of State and appearing upon its
face to have become a law in the mode prescribed by the Constitution of the United States, was to be deemned a nullity in all
its parts because it was shown by the congressional record of
proceedings, reports of committees of each house and other papers
printed by authority of Congress that a section of the bill as it
finally passed was not in the bill authenticated by the signatures
of the presiding officers of the respective houses of Congress and
approved by the President. The clause of the Constitution upon
which that contention was based declares that "each house
shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and from time to time
publish the same, except such parts as may in their judgmient
require secrecy; and the yeas and nays of the members of either
house on any question shall, at the desire of one fifth of those
present, be entered on the journal." Art. 1, § 5. It was not
claimed in that case that a yea and nay vote was demanded by
one fifth of the members of either house on the passage of the

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

section alleged to have been omitted, or on the passage of the
bill as approved by the two houses of Congress. This court
said : "In regard to certain matters, the constitution expressly
requires that they shall be entered on the journal. To what
extent the validity of legislative action may be affected by the
failure to have those matters entered on the journal, we need
not inquire. No such question is presented for determination.
But it is clear that, in respect to the particular mode in which,
or with what fullness, shall be kept the proceedings of either
house relating to matters not expressly required to be entered
on the journals; whether bills, orders, resolutions, reports and
amendments shall be entered at large on the journal, or only
referred to and designated by their titles or by numbers; these
and like matters were left to the discretion of the respective
houses of Congress. Nor does any clause of that instrument,
either expressly or by necessary implication, prescribe the mode
in which the fact of the original passage of a bill by the House
of Representatives and the Senate shall be authenticated, or preclude Congress from adopting any mode to that end which its
wisdom suggests. Although the constitution does not expressly
require bills that have passed Congress to be attested by the
signature of the presiding officers of the two houses, usage, the
orderly conduct of legislative proceedings, and the rules under
which the two bodies have acted since the organization of the
Government, require that mode of authentication." It was
then said: "The signing by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and by the President of the Senate, in open session, of an enrolled bill, is an official attestation by the two
houses of such bill as one that has passed Congress. It is a declaration by the two houses through their presiding officers, to
the President, that a bill, thus attested, has received, in due
form, the sanction of the legislative branch of the Government,
and that it is delivered to him in obedience to the constitutional requirement that all bills which pass Congress shall be
presented to him. And when a bill, thus attested, receives his
approval, and is deposited in the public archives, its authentication as a bill that has passed Congress should be deemed complete and unimpeachable. As the President has no authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to approve a bill not passed by Congress, an enrolled act in the
custody of the Secretary of State, and having the official attestations of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, of the
President of the Senate, and of the President of the United
States, carries on its face a solemn assurance by the legislative
and executive departments of the Government, charged, respectively with the duty of enacting and executing the laws,
that it was passed by Congress. The respect due to coequal
and independent departments requires the judicial department
to act upon that assurance, and to accept as having passed Congress all bills authenticated in the manner stated; leaving the
courts to determine, when the question properly arises, whether
the act, so authenticated, is in conformity with the Constitution."
So that in Fieldv. Clark the question substantially as now
presented - namely, as to the effect upon legislation of the failure to enter upon the journals that which is expressly required
by the state constitution to be entered on them before an act
can become a law - was not decided, but was in terms reserved
from decision. Nothing said in that case conflicts with the
judgments of the Supreme Court of North Carolina in the cases
cited.
To avoid misapprehension it may be well to add that even if
the decisions in North Carolina rested upon grounds inconsistent with the principles announced in Field v. Clark as applicable to the constitutional provisions relating to acts passed by
Congress, it would be the duty of a Federal court to follow the
rulings of the highest court of a State on the question whether
a particular enactment found in the printed statutes had been
passed in such a manner as to become, under its constitution,
a law of the State. Whether a different principle would apply
in cases where rights had accrued under a statute previously
adjudged by the state court to have been so passed as to become a law, we need not now inquire.
It is, however, earnestly contended that the county cannot
escape liability even if the acts of 1868, 1879 and 1881 are
disregarded as not having been passed so as to become laws;
that the recital in each bond that it was issued under the au-

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

thority of the act of 1879 does not estop the holders of bonds
from showing that there was in fact ample authority to issue
them, although such authority was not recited in the bonds.
This contention rests mainly upon Anderson County v. Beal,
113 U. S. 227, 236, 237, 238 (1885). In that case it was said:
"It is not disputed that the recital in the bond that it was
issued under the act of February 26, 1866, Sess. Laws of Kansas, 1866, c. 24, p. 72, was an error. . . . It is very clear
that there was legislative authority, under the act of 1869, for
the issuing of the bonds in question. There was an election,
and the requisite majority of those who voted assented to the
proposition for the subscription to the stock and the issue of
the bonds, and the subscription was made by the proper officers,
and they issued the bonds. . . . The bond recites the wrong
act, but if that part of the recital be rejected, there remains
the statement that the bond 'is executed and issued ' 'in pursuance to the vote of the electors of Anderson County of September 13, 1869.' The act of 1869 provides that when the
assent of a majority of those voting at the election is given to
the subscription to the stock, the county commissioners shall
make the subscription, and shall pay for it, and for the stock
thereby agreed to be taken, by issuing to the company the bonds
of the county." To the same effect is Knox County v. Ninth
National Bank, 147 IT. S. 91.
The point here made is not specifically embraced in either of
the certified questions, but it is so closely connected with the
question whether the Circuit Court should have followed the
decisions of the Supreme Court of North Carolina in Bank v.
Comnmnissioners, Conmmiss loners v. Snuggs, Rodman v. Washington, Commissioners of W-ilkes County v. Call, and Commissioners v. P~ayne, above cited, that it ought to be examined.
Of course, if there was an absolute want of power to issue
the bonds in question, every purchaser of them would be
charged with notice of that fact, and could not look to the
county in whose name they were issued. So that the inquiry
must be whether the county had power to issue the bonds without the aid of any act passed after the constitution of 1868
went into operation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs insist that requisite authority was given by the
Convention ordinance of March 9, 1868, and that it had been
in effect so decided by the Supreme Court of the State before
the bonds were issued in [fill v. Commis8ioner8, 67 N. C. 367
(1870) and Belo v. (ommissioners, 76 N. C. 489 (1877).
In H1il v. Commissioner8 the relief sought was an injunction
to restrain the Commissioners of Forsyth County-into which
the first division of the railroad was to be constructed-from
imposing and collecting taxes to be applied in paying instalments due upon a subscription made by that county to the stock
of the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company.
The general question presented in that case, and the only one
decided, was whether the legislature could constitutionally
authorize a county to take stock in a railroad company under
the sanction of a popular vote, and impose a tax to pay for
such subscription. The Supreme Court of the State adjudged
that such legislation would be legal. No reference was made
to the ordinance of 1868 or to the ratifying act of August 11,
1868. Nor does it appear from the report of that case that any
question was raised as to the validity of that act under the 14th
section of Article 2 of the constitution of the State, nor that
evidence was offered to show whether the journals of the legislature contained any entry of the yea and nay vote on the see-.
ond and third readings of the bill. Still, it must be taken that
the ordinance of 1868 was assumed by the court in that case to
be in force so far as Forsyth County, named in it, was concerned. The decision cannot however be regarded as authoritative upon the question whether Wilkes County had power,
under that ordinance alone, to issue the bonds here involved.
In Belo v. Commissioners the relief sought was a judgment
compelling the Commissioners of Forsyth County to provide
for the payment of the bonds issued by them in payment of its
subscription of stock to the North Western North Carolina
Railroad Company. The Supreme Court of the State said:
"The North Western North Carolina Railroad Company was
incorporated by an ordinance of the Convention of 1868, and,
by section 12 of the charter, the same power to subscribe to
the capital stock of the company and subject to the like regu-

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

lations and restrictions is given to counties and towns as was
conferred by an act incorporating the Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad Company, passed by the legislature of 1852.
By section 34 of the latter act the justices of the county through
or near which the road was located, 'a majority concurring,'
are authorized to fix upon a subscription suni and submit it to
the voters of the county. If the majority favored subscription,
the justices were to choose an agent to subscribe the stock voted
and to prepare and issue county bonds, as the justices should
direct. The minutes of the special term of the county court of
Forsyth County, which ordered the proposition to be submitted
to the popular vote, recite that a majority of the justices were
present, concurring in the order. The vote resulted in favor
of subscription, and was so certified to the succeeding court,
held in June, 1868. The minutes of that term recite that thirtyfive justices were present, which number is admitted to be a
majority of the whole number. At this latter term of the
court the justices ordered the subscription to be made to the
capital stock of the company, and the bonds to be prepared
and issued and sold by the agent then chosen. The bonds were
accordingly put upon the market, and among them the identical bonds now sued on were by the agent sold to one Lemly,
at his banking house in Salem, on the 5th of March, 1869.
These bonds recite that they were ' authorized by an ordinance
of 1868, by an order of the Court of Pleas and Quarter Sessions
of Forsyth County at June term, 1868, and re~nacted and ratified and confirmed by an act of the General Assembly, ratified
the 11th of August, 1868.' At the same term at which the
subscription was made the justices assessed a special tax upon
the county to meet the semi-annual interest on the bonds. This
special railroad tax was annually assessed, levied and collected
and applied in the discharge of the accruing interest upon the
bonds from that time until 1872. A certificate for the stock
subscribed was issued by the railroad company to the county,
which it yet holds; an agent was annually chosen to represent
and did represent the county stock in all the meetings of the
company. Under the new state constitution of 1868 a Board
of County Commissioners succeeded to all the powers and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

duties of the justices, and up to 1872 this board unanimously
caused the levy and collection of the railroad tax and its application to the discharge of the coupons due upon the bonds.
But the board elected in 1872 refused to assess any further
tax and to pay any further interest upon the bonds, alleging as
the reason therefor that the subscription of stock so made by
the county was illegal and void."
Again: "For whether conditions precedent have been complied with is a matter of fact to be determined by some tribunal
invested with the power and authority to decide it, and the
decision when made should be final. It is not disputed that
the power to make the subscription of stock and issue the bonds
was conferred upon the county of Forsyth by the ordinance of
the Convention. It is equally clear that the tribunal which was
authorized to issue the bonds only on compliance with conditions precedent was the sole tribunal to determine the fact
whether the conditions had been fulfilled. In our case the justices of the county, a majority concurring, was the court or
tribunal designated to carry the law into effect, and was the
tribunal to decide whether the conditions had been complied
with, and their decision is final in a suit by a bona fide holder
of the bonds against the municipality."
After considering the rights of the parties under the Convention ordinance of 1868, the court proceeded: "So far, as to
the rights of the parties under the original act of the railroad
corporation, granted by the Convention of 1868. But the plaintiff further relies upon a subsequent act of the legislature, ratified the 11th of August, 1868, which confirms the original
charter [ordinance] of March, 1868. This act in express terms
'ratifies all acts and things heretofore done under the provisions of said ordinance,' and con fers upon the ' Board of Commissioners of the county full power and authority to levy from
time to time such tax as may be sufficient to pay the subscription made by said county to the capital stock of the North
Western North Carolina Railroad Company and any interest
due thereon, or to liquidate any debt created by the county in
borrowing money to pay such stock subscription.' The competency of the legislature to enact retrospective statutes to

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

validate an irregular or defective execution of power by a
county corporation is well settled." The court then declared
that the ratifying act of August 11, 1868, was a curative act
and validated both the county subscription and the issue of
the bonds, if any defects existed therein.
What was said in the Belo case about the validity of the act
of August 11, 1868, as a curative statute, within the power of
the legislature to pass, cannot be deemed as an adjudication
upon the question whether that act was void upon the ground
that the yeas and nays on the second and third readings of the
bill were not entered on the journal. It does not appear that
any such question was presented or considered, or that the journals of the legislature were in evidence or proved so that the
question could have been decided.
But the Belo case involved other considerations. Forsyth
County-whose liability on the bonds in suit in that case was
directly involved-made the point that it had no authority to
issue such bonds. The court however held that such authority
was conferred by the Convention ordinance of March 9, 1868,
and the subscription and bonds made in the name of that county
to the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company were
upheld as valid under that ordinance, which was recognized as
part of the law of the State and as conferring authority on the
county of Forsyth to do what it did.
It results that when the bonds here in question were issued
in 1889, it was the law of North Carolina that the ordinance of
1868, constituting the charter of the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company, was not superseded by the constitution of 1868, but was in force and therefore gave power to
counties embraced by its provisions to take stock in that company and pay for it in county bonds just as Forsyth County
had done.
Whether Wilkes County was so situated with reference to
the contemplated road that it could be said to have had the
same authority as was given to Forsyth County is a question
not now decided.
In this connection we must allude to what was said in Commissioners of Wilkes County v. Call, 123 N. C. 308, 317 (1898).
VOL. CLXXX-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

That was a suit brought by the Commissioners of Wilkes County
against the County Treasurer to test the validity of the bonds
issued in the name of that county to pay its subscription to the
stock of the North Western North Carolina Railroad Company.
No holder of bonds was made party to the original suit. In
the progress of the case however two persons who became
owners of one bond after the institution of the action were permitted to intervene. The Supreme Court of the State said:
"We have not overlooked the fact that in Belo v. Commissioners, 76 N. C. 489, this court strongly intimates that section 12
of the charter did confer the authority given in section 33 of
the act of 1852 [incorporating the Atlantic and North Carolina
Railroad Company] ; but it does so incidentally and with little
discussion, because it was not denied in the pleadings. This
was not the determining point in the case, which turned chiefly
upon the recitals in the bonds and the ratifying act of 1868.
This is clearly shown in the opinion itself, which devotes four
pages to the discussion of equitable estoppel arising on the recitals, and about half a page to the possible binding effect of the
ordinance, winding up with the significant sentence on page 497
that ' as the case is presented to us, that question does not arise
and we do not decide it.'" There is some ground for holding
that the question which the court said was neither presented
nor decided was whether the "justices could have been compelled by process of law to make the subscription, unless in defence they could have shown that the election was not fairly
conducted, but was influenced by the fraud of the railroad company." Whether this be a correct interpretation of the opinion
in the Belo case or not is immaterial ; for that the ordinance of
1868 gave power to Forsyth County to make the subscription
and issue bonds in payment of it was expressly affirmed in that
case-indeed, it was not there disputed. So far from the Belo
case turning, in part, upon the ratifying act of 1868, the court
distinctly adjudged that the bonds were valid in the hands of
bona fide holders under the ordinance of 1868 without the aid
of the act of August 11, 1868.
A further reference must be made to the Call case. It was
there said (p. 320) that "the ratification of the constitution on

WILKES COUNTY v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

the 24th day of April, 1868, when it went into effect for all
domestic purposes, annulled all special powers remaining unexecuted and not granted in strict accordance with its requirements." This view was again expressed in Commissioners v.
Payne, 123 N. C. 432, 486-7. By Article 7, section 7, of the
state constitution, it was provided that "no county, city, town
or municipal corporation shall contract any debt, pledge its faith,
or loan its credit, nor shall any tax be levied or collected by any
officers of the same, except for the necessary expenses thereof,
unless by a vote qf a majority of the qualified voters therein."
If the state court intended to adjudge in the Call and Payne
cases that no municipal subscription to the stock of a railroad
company could be made after the constitution of 1868 took effect,
except in conformity to section 7, of Article 7, we perceive no
reason to doubt the correctness of such interpretation of that
instrument; for it could not be that any unexecuted provision
of the ordinance of 1868 inconsistent with the state constitution could be executed. Asp'inwall v. Commissioners, 22 How.
364; Wadsworth v. Supervisors, 102 U. S. 534, 537; Norton v.
Brownsville, 129 U. S. 479, 490. But if it was intended to say
that the state constitution abrogated all authority previously
given to make such municipal subscriptions, and that no such
subscriptions could be made except pursuant to a new statute
passed in conformity with the requirements of section 14 of
Article 2, we are constrained to say that such a rule could not
be applied in this case so as to violate any rights which the
plaintiff had under the law of North Carolina as declared by the
highest court of the State before the bonds here involved were
issued. It is the settled doctrine of this court "that the question arising in a suit in a Federal court of the power of a municipal corporation to make negotiable securities is to be determined
by the law as judicially declared by the highest court of the
State when the securities were issued, and that the rights and
obligations of parties accruing under such a state of the law
would not be affected by a different course of judicial decisions
subsequently rendered any more than by subsequent legislation."
-Loeb v. Trustees of Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472, 492, and
authorities there cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

We have referred fully to the 1ill and Belo cases because of the
earnest contention of learned counsel that under the law of North
Carolina, as declared in those cases before the bonds in question
were made, the ordinance of 1868, without the aid of subsequent
legislation, gave full power to Wilkes County to issue such bonds.
This view suggests various questions as to the scope and effect
of that ordinance. Assuming, as we must, that the Belo and
ilil cases bold that the ordinance of 1868 remained in force
after the adoption of the constitution, did the general power
given by that ordinance to the North Western Railroad Company to construct a railroad from its eastern terminus, "running by way of Salem and Winston, in Forsyth County, to some
point in the northwestern boundary line of the State, to be hereafter determined," invest Wilkes County with authority to subscribe to the stock of the company and to issue bonds in payment of such subscription? Was Wilkes County in the same
category with Forsyth County ? Was the route of the road
northwest of Salem and Winston to some point in the northwestern boundary line of the State to be determined by the legislature or by the company ? If by the legislature, was that
route ever determined otherwise than by the act of 1879, which
has been adjudged never to have become a law of the State?
Did Wilkes County have authority, under the ordinance of 1868
alone, to aid, by a subscription of stock and bonds, the construction of the second division of the road referred to in the act of
1879, extending from the towns of Winston and Salem, up the
valley of the Yadkin by way of Jonesville and Wilkesboro, in
the county of Wilkes, to Patterson's Factory, in the county of
Caldwell ?
These are matters about which we do not feel disposed to express an opinion under the very general and indefinite questions
certified from the Circuit Court of Appeals. Nor do we deem
it proper to express any opinion as to the scope and the effect
upon the rights of the parties of sections 1996, 1997, 1998 and
1999 of the Code of North Carolina. The certified questions
do not directly or explicitly relate to any question arising under
those sections of the Code; and it is not appropriate that this

MOUNTA1N VIEW MIN. & MILL. CO. v. McFADDEN. 533
Counsel for Parties.

court should, under the questions certified, consider and determine the entire merits of the case.
We answer the certified questions to this extent:
1. That the Circuit Court of the United States should have
regarded the decisions of the Supreme Court of North Carolina
in Banc v. Commissioners, Commtissioners v. Snuggs, Rodman
v. Washington, Commissioners of Wilkes County v. Call, and
Comissioners v. Payne, above cited, as controlling upon the
inquiry whether the legislative enactments of 1868, 1879 and
1881 were passed in such manner as to become, under the constitution, laws of the State.
2. That the rights of the parties in this case are determinable
by the law of the State as it was declared by the state court to
be at the time the bonds here involved were made in the name
of the county and put upon the market.
Tlese answers will be certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

MOUNTAIN

APPEAL

FROM

VIEW MINING AND MILLING COMPANY v. McFADDEN.
THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 162. Submitted March 5, 1901. -Decided March 25, 1901.
Blackburn v. Portland Gold Mining Company, 175 U. S. 571, and Shoshone

Mining Company v. Rutter, 177 U. S. 505, affirmed and applied.
Resort cannot be had to judicial knowledge to raise controversies not presented by the pleadings.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
fr. W. B. Heyburn and Xr. I. A. Doherty for appellant.
iXfr. A. B. Browne, ir. Alexander Britton and Mr. TV. T1.
Stoll for appellees.

