"0'24

SUPREME

OtTRT.

Price v.-S essionp.

•was to settle the claims m ,as short a time as practicable, so as to
efiable the govenment to sell the public lands. which could not be
done with propriety until the private claims were ascertained. As
'these'were niany in number, and for large quantities, no choice was
:ift to the governmeit biut their speedy settlement, and severance
-from the public domain; such his beenits anxious policy throughout, as appears, from almost every law passed on the subject. In
f828 the time for filing p~titions-before the courts was even reduced
from two, years. to one, and a positive bar interposed in case of
failure. This policy we think Congress intende& to maintain, and
that the *Qurtsof Florida had .no ju'ris diction to receive a petition
for the confirmation of an iicomplete 'concession like the one b'efore
us, after the 26th of May, 1831.
Some stress has been placed on the language employed by this
'court in 'Delspine's caie, 15 Peters, 329; and on which it is sup-posedthe court below founded its decree on the head of jirisdictidn.
There an amended petition.had been. filed after the expiration of a
rear' from the 26th of May, 1831, and the, quiestion was.whether the
defective petition, 'filed-in time, had.saved th6 bar, and it was held
that-it ha'd: But sb far ffom holding that no bar xisted, the contrary-is rather to be inferred; the direet question was neither d6cided
or intended to-be.
. -For.the reasons stated,-we order the7 decree of-the Superior Court
of 'East Flbrida to be reversed, and direct that thd6 appellees! .petition be dismissed.

L.,WSjtyN PRICE, JUN., Fog THE uSE oF DmNrEL W. GArLLRY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MRTAA A. SEssIoNs.
'Where a testator devised certain pioperty to his infant daughter, to be delivered
over to her when she should arrive at' the age of eighteen years, and the
daunghter, at the age of-sixteen, married the executor who'had the principal
management of the estate, and possession of the property'devised, he must be
considered as holding it as executor, and not as husband.
The execuitors had no power to deliver the property to the daaughter, or to her
guardian, or to her husband, before th" happening of the contingency mentioned'in the rill.
The law of the state of Mississippi, providinrg that a wife should retain such
-property in hiar own right, notwithstanding her coverture, having gone into
operation before the daughter arrived atthe age'Qf eighteen years, the distribution to her -mustbe considered to have been made under that law.
The property, there'fore, cannot be xespdnsible for the husband's debts.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from, the Circuit Couit
of the United States for the southern-diStrict of Mississippi.
The fats were these:
iJune, 1836, l6usseHi Smith died, leaving a will, the second sect.ioi

JANUAR-Y TERM, -1845.

623

Pricee . Sessions.

of which directed that his just debts and fun-efal expenses be paid,
and that, for this purpose, the fQrce be kept together on his plantaIion, Sylvan Vale, and-prudently-managed -until. that crop, or the
subsequent one; should yield a fund to pay said ilebts.
The third section bequeathed to biis step-son, William D. Griffin,
four quarter-sections of land, and seventeen sla 'es; and continued
as follows:* "which proprmty is to be delivered to the said William
D. Griffin, by my executors,.when he shall arrive at thd age of twenty-one years; and should he, the said William.D. Griffin, die before
he arriv.es at the age of twenty-one years, then, arfd in that event,'
the aforesaid property, real and personal, is to be equally divided
between. my derai beldved brothers-in-law, E. J. Sessions, P. W.
Defrance, re. Le Defrance, and Charles A. Defrance,.provided they
be living; if not; then it is to revert to my estate again, to be disposed of as hereipafter provided.
"4thly. I giv and becueath, unto my dear beloved daughter,
Martha Ann Smith, all the remaining balance of my estate, rea -and
personal, not mentioned in my bequest to William D. Griffin, -and
should lhe and the others before-mentioned, to'whom the said legacy
was to.desdd, all be dead, -she"is also to inherit iti the said legacy
toW. . Griffib; but, at all events, the property is to be kept together, and the force worked on the plantation, uintil my said daugh-.
ter, Martha Ann, arrives'at the ag6 of eighteen years, at which time
m~y executors are to' deliver over to her all of the property first set
apart for her and still retain the possession of the legacy to W. D.
Griffin, and not deliver it to her, if-he'lives until he is twenty-one.
years -of age; and if he dies, the.mode is pointed out for them to
pursue. But should my said daughter, Martha Ann die before-she
arrives at the age of eighteen, or has. An heir of hir own body, then
:the .legacy left her, as also that may descend- to her from the first
legacy, (to W. D."Grifflii,) ii to be disposed of as follows,,to wit:"
&c., &c.
He fuher appointed E. J..Sessions, P. W. Defrance; John Lane,
and'George Sels'er, executors;- and-John Lane guardian to his daughter, Maitha, the defendant in error.iii the preserit suit, who was, at
that time, about fdurteen years of age. .
On the 25th of July, 1836, the will was admitted-to probate, and
letters testamentary were granted to three of the executors viz., Sessions, Lane, and Selser; and Lane was also appointed, guardian to
the child.
On the 8th of May,.1838, Sessions, together with Samuel Fernandis, and H. Femandis, executed to Price,,the plaintiff in error,
two 'promissory notes; one payable -eight months after the .1st of
May, 1838, for $2345 11, andihe other payable twdve months after
the 1st of May, 1838, for$24l 16; both being negotiahle and payable at thd office of the Planters- Bank, Vicksburg, Mississippi.
In September, 1838, Sessions, oine Qf the executors maried MarVOL. Im.-79
3G
"
-

.626

SUPREME COURT.
Price v. Session-s.

tha, the daughter or the testalor, she being, at that time, about sixteen years of age.
In August, 1839, Price, a citizen of the republic of Texas, and
suing for the-ihse of Gaulley, a.citizen of the state of New York,
brought suit agminst the three' makers of the notes aforesaid, in the
Circuit Courtof the United States.
kf Nov.ember term, 1839, he obtained a judgment against the
whole three, and in December following issued, a fieri facias upon
the
undgment..
I he
property levied upon was suffered to remain in the hands of
the possessors, upon..their executing a forthcbming bond.
In 1839, the legislature of Mississippi passed an act, (Acts, 72,)
the 22d. and 23d sections of which were a follows:
"Sect. 22. Any married.woman m~y become seised or possessed
of 'any property, real or personal, by direct bequest, demise, gift,
purchase, or distribution, in her own.riame, and as of her own pro-perty; provided, the same does not come from her husband, after
coverture.
"-Sect. 23. Hereafter, 'hen, ahy woman, possessed of a property
in slaves, shall marry, her property in such slaves, and their natural
increase, shall continue to.her, notwithstanding her coverture; and
she shall have, hold, and possess, the same, as her separate property, exempt from any liability for the debts or coitracts of the
husband."'
The 24th section gave to a woman'whd became entitled to slaves,
during coverture -the same right which the pre.ceding- section gave
to those 'women who :possessed slaVes at the time of marriage.
In, January,' 184.0; Sessions and wife executed two mortgages;
one to the Commercial and Railroad Bank of Vicksburg, of land and
negroes, to secure $21,661 19, and the other to the Planters' Bank,
of other land and negroes,
secure $7121 20.
Ih May, 1840, the forthcoming bondi already spdken of, was for.
feited, the effect of which was equivalent to a judgment against
principal and sureties, for debt, interest, and costs.
On"the 23d of November, 1840, the executors of Russell Smith
presentea their account to' he Probate Court,-by which it was re.
ceived, -examined,, allowed, and- ordered tb be recorded; and the
executors were discharged from further accounting with the court,
imless thereafter cited by parties interested.
The estate was made Dr.,
$39,345 70
And allowed a credit of
13,636 12
By which it appeared the executors had overpaid
$25,709 48
'In January, 1842, ani' alias fierfaias was issued against Sessions,
together with the securities on the forthcoiming bond, and levied
upon theland and negroes which were devised to Marthabyher father;
In FebnraryI, 1842,Martha claimed the property as her own, and

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

,.627

Price v. Sess:ions.

the'question was brought before. the court below on the validity of
said claim.
.Upon the trial, the claimant then" introduced John Laie, &ne of
the executors, whose competency .was objected to by the plaintiff,
but was permitted to testify by the couit. - Said witness testified that
Egbert J. Sessions, one of.the defendants in the above-named fieri
facias. had acted as executor from the time he.qualified as such, incojunction with the two other executors; that Egbert'J. &Sessions
had taken charge of the plardtationi and'slaves, as executor, and had since had the actual control and manhgement thereof, that the possession of Sessioris was joidt.with'the other executors, and the control of the .slaves was given to-him by the other executors as a mat-'
terof convenience, ashe, Sessions, lived bn"the adjoining plantation. The witness furthertestified5 -thatthe estate, of Russell Smith
was u settled, and that there are nowy outstanding debts against the
estate-of.Russell Smitl, unpaid, amounting to -pwards of twenty
thousahd dollars. Witness further testified,- that the accounts of the
affairs of the estate had been kept dind rendered mostly by Egbert J.
Sessioni, the witness, Lane, -having made but two .annual settlements. , Witness stated-that he had rendered- accounts, as guardian
of claimant, 'Martha A. Sessions. ' Withess further stated, that he
considered Ecrbert J. Sessions in the possession of the property, in
the capacity o? executor of Russell Snith , that the-claimant and Rg.
bert J. Sessions had hitermarried in 1838; that said Sessions was
now in'the possession. of the property since the marriage; that no
formal act of delivery of the property to E. J. Sessions, by-the exe-cutors, had taken place. since the marriage of the claimant with said
Sessions,
The plaintiff proved that dlaimantwas now about twenty years
of age,-and was sixteen years of- age at the time of her marriage
with said Egbert J. Sessions, which was in"September, 1838.
The plaintiff proved by John Lane, that he assented to the execution of the two mortgages'above.named, by Sessions and wife, the
resent claimant.
The cliii int then" proved, that the..debts enumerated in said
mortgage before referred to, was, as she belinved, in renewal of
debts contfacted with the bank by Russell Smith, in. his lifetim6, the
claimant's father.
Said John Lane further proved, thaf he was a director in one of
.the banks t6 which said .mortgages are made; that he had assisted
Sdssio'ns in making the arrangementwith the bankl;and also assented
that he, Sessions, and claimant should mortgage the property to the
banks.
This was all the procf in the cause; and,,thereupon, the court
instructed the jury, "that the propertV devised and bequeathed by,
the will of Russell Smith to the claimant, MarthaA., did not vest
in hei, nor was she -entitled to the possession of it until she- the

628

SUPREME COURT.
Price v. Sessions.

blaimant, arrived at the age of eighteen years: and although she
married the defendant in th execution before that time, the title of
tlie property could n6t be vsted inJaim until ihe claimant attained
- eighteen years of age, at which time, under the will, she became
entitled to the possession of it; that the property in controversy is a
chose in action, and coulc n:ot vest in her husband until she or he
had reduced it to possssion, which couldnot be doie, by the terms
of the.will, befoie she was eighteen yeats of age. If, therefore,
when the act of the Mississippi legislature, securing to married women their pr6perty .free from the debts of their husband, (which
went. into. effect in. April, -1839,) the claimant had not attained te
ge of eighteen years, the husband had no legal estate in it, and-it
ould not be subject to this executioni; and if they believe from the
vidence, that the possession held by Eghert J. Sessions, one of the
efendants
theother
execution,
was held
-s executor'up
that time
ioiitly
with-inthe
executors,
such-tpossession
vestedtbiuihini
no
legal interest by hiis -marriage with.'the~clamnant, eithe'r to the land
"To which instructionsof
the court the plantiff
or slaves, oI other
personal property.
excepted, and
fendered
thi
his
bill
of
exceptions
at
the
time,
before
jury retired frcm thd bar, .whi h he prayedmight be signed, the
sealed,
enrolled, and made a part of the -rec~rd,.whihMcf
is done accordingly.
;
[sr"n
Under these instructions the jury found
a verdict for the claimant,
and.to review their e6rrecnethe
writ of rror was-brought.
wihendeso,
for the plaintiffin error.
fenri ende, for the defendant in
error.
Henderson referred to the following
assignment of errors which
had ben filed in the court below:
1. The court erred instr ructing
th jurya"That the property devised and bequeathed
by the will of Russell Smith to the claimant Martha Ann
did notvest in her until she
arrived the age of eighteen
tt
years.
•
2. The court erred in instructing the
jury
"lThat the title othe property did'not
vest in Egert J. Sessions
,:- -an-ge "d eighteen
dri* inti
the
~ - g.
"at
.gyears
. e jury
-n":.

3. The court erred, in instructing -the jury- "That the prop !rty in controversy is a chose in actibn, and could
not vest in the husband of the- claimant, until she or he had reduced
it to possession..
4.' The court erred in instruc:
-he jury"1If, when the act of the Misii ppi legislature, securing to marrid women their property, free from the debts of their husbands,
(which went into effect in April, 1839,) the claimant had not attained the age of eighteen years, the husband-had no legal estate in
it, and.it could not be subject to this execution."

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

O29

Price v. Sessions.
5. The court erred in instruc "* the jury-

"If they believed, from the evidence, that the possession held by
Egbert J. Sessions, 'one of the defendant in the executidn, was held
as executor up to that time, (when the act of the legislature of Mississippi, above referred to, was passed,) jointly with the other
executors, such possession vested in him no legal interest.by his
marriage with -the claimant, either to the land or slaves, or other
personal property."
6. The court instructed the jury contrrw to the law of the case.
His argument then pToceeded as follows:.
Notwithstanding that Russell Smith,' died in June, 1836, and- his
daughter Martha married the said Egbeit in September, 1838, and
the married women's act took effect on the 15th April,. 1839, yet,
as from the proof it is to be inferred that Martha was not eighteen
years old till about June, 1840, it is .a]ssumed the'legacy could not'
vest till the, latteir date, and therefore was property acquired to her.
after the said statute took effect, and was therefore secured to her
by the 3d section of that act, which is as follows:
' That.when any woman during coverture shall become entitled
to, or'possegsed of, slaves by conveyance, 'gift, inheritance, distribution,' or otherwise, such slaves, together with their natural increase,
shall inure and. belong to the wife, in like manner as is above providted as to slaves which she may possess at'the tine of marriage."
As to all such slaves, she is entitled, as.per sect. 2, to hold them
as her property;.the control and usufruct, however.-to belong to the
husband, agreeable to laws heretofore in force.
The Superior Court of Mississippi has decided that this statutory
estate, of a maried woman is not the.sole and separate estate known
to the common and chancery law: that the latter may still be cregted, though .the statute has not created such estate, but has ont
seciijed personal propeity to a'mnarried .woman, in the same way
lands, -in her own right, were secured to her at common law.
2 Smede & MAarshall's Rep. 165, 570.
We maintain1st. That by the will of Russell Smith the-legacy to his daughter
Martha vested on the instant of his death, and possession only was
deferred; and her marriage .with Egbert J. Sessions invested him
with a right of property in said legacy, subject aly to like postponement of possession. 4 Hen. & Munf. 411; 4 Call's Rep. 321.;
1 How. Miss. Rep. 563, 564; 3 How. Miss. Rep. 312, 395, 396;
1 Wash. Va. Rep.'30.
That to fix a husband's right of property to a legacy accruing to
his wife, either before or, during coverture, it is not necessary he
should reduce it to. possession. 3 How.: Miss. Rep. 395, 396;
4'How. Miss. RepF. 214.
Especially is. this true of a legacy, the" possession of which is
3

G2

630

SUPREME COURT.
Price v. Sessions.

postponed by the will, by which the .husband's right to reduce to
possession is delayed. 4 Hen. & Munf. 411.
2d. The court below erred in charging the jury, that "the'property in controversy is a chosi in action, and could nof vest in her
husband until he or she had reduced it to posgession, which could
not be done by the terms of the willuntil she was eighteen years,"
and therefore that the.title could not vest in husband, &a., till after
wife -was eighteen.
Whatever question may be made of what constitutes a chose in
action, -'*hether it may be property out of possession, or only a right
to recover money due by contract, or by tort, it- is maiiifest, from
the state of facts.in this case, these slaves vere not, (in relation to
Egbert J. Sessions,) in any sense, a chose in action. He had the
actual and controlling possession of the slaves from the time of-marriage. And -the right to them, which vested in him by virtue of
the marriage, concurring with his actual possessloni, precludes the
possibility that these slaves were, to him, ehoses in action. Himself was the executor-whom could -he sue?. both title and possession were-his owrn-for what- could he sue? -True, he had a right
to account with the probate court for his administration, but he neither could sue, nor be sued, for- these slaves. See 1 How.. Miss.,
)ep. 563, 564.
3d. The court erred, also; in instructing the jury that if Egbert
J. Sessions had possession of the slaves levietf, before his wife was
eighteen years. old, such possession could only be as executor, and
could not invest him with the necessary possession to-fix his marital
the property.
right
.If in
possession
of a wife's legacy be postponed by the will, the
-husband, it is true, cannot be entitled to recover its possession; -but
for
that same cause his marital right to-the legacy shall not b6 prejudiced.
4 Hen. & Munf. 411 ; 3'-How. Miss. Rep. 313; 1 Wash.
Va. Rep. 30.
Now, by the laws of Mississippi; where a -will does not otherwise
appoint, executors and administrators are bound to pay over legacies, or make distribqttion, twelve months after letters granted. Rev.
Co., How. & Hutch. p. 406, sects. 70, 71.
'"The executors 'had this estate in administration from testator's
death, in June, 1836, till Martha Ann married E. J. SesSions, (one
of the executors,) in September, 1838,.Iwo years and three months
-in all.
-But--for the provision of the will, that the slaves should be kept
together fill the legatee, Martha, should arrive at eighteen years of
age, the law would have terminated the executor's right of posses"
sion more than a year before the marriage.
It-was not, therefore, in right' of their logal office of executors
that le possession was then held, but by the appointment of the
bil1
only, The husband, therefore, had all the possession of this
-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

631

Pric.e v. Sessions.

vested legacy at the time of. his marriage of which the legacy was
capable; and the law required nothing more of him,to perfect his
title jure matiti. -3 How.Miss. Rep.313.
Two months after Egbert J.Sessions' marriage this judgment
was obtained against him, - which; by the statute of Mississippi,
binds property; personal as well as real, from it& date. Rev. Co'.-,
How. & Hutch. p. 621; 6 How. Rep. 562, 567.
the charge of the
But if we are mistaken ii all the preceding, still
court and the verdict of the jury would be wrong; because, if the
title to the property was in the wife, the usufruct for life is, by the
statute of 1839, reserved to the -husband, and that his life-estate
would be subject to execution for his debts.. 6 How. Miss. Rep.
562; 2 Mj nf. Rep. 501; 4 How. Miss. Rep. 230; 2 How. Miss.
Rep. 39.
Critefiden, for the defendant in error, insisted.vested in her till she
1. That the property devised was not fully
arri ed at the age of eighteen years.
2. That whatever right or interest might have been previously
Vested in her by the will, she had 'not, nor was, she entitled to, seisin
or. pogsession of the land or slaves before she attained that age.
And therefore, as she did not attain it until after her marriage,
and after the passage of aid act, the provisions of that act apply to
and protect the land and slaves d6vised to her from the debts of her
husband and from the execution in questioii' and, consejuently,.
that said verdict ind judgm'ent are correct) and ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Critlendei'sid that this case'strikLingly illustrated the wisdom
of the law of Mississippi, which was einphatically called "a woman's
law." The executor married the daughter at 'the age of sixteen,
And the honey moon was :scarcely over'when an execution came to,
weea a ll that had been provided torher future comfrt, The
only iquiry is, whether the Igaoy was vested or not. :Suppose
she hadi~died, old the husband have had it? 'Not so because it
was to be the
"applied
to charitable purposes. If payment was only
postpQned,
law would:consider
it as a.vested legacy, but.the
consequences "of a vested, legacy do not follow .here; therefore it
cannot be so. .The 'devise 'over shows that itwas hot the intention
of
the testator'that
and hisI in-.
tention
must, be .thethe legacy.should
e'onstrctonof vest'immediately,
hi will.
is
frue that chancery inclines to consider legacies as ved.td, when it is
doubtfl,. but all agree that every thing must give way. to-the. infentn ofte testator, to ascertain which is the object of all r'uoes. Ily
this ease,4he
is .clear.
"Tlere
:.gift, .but. the
"legatee
is not intention
to 'come into
pyssess'n
till .is
the.n'present
e aofeighteen,'and
in the uaean'tim the executor-is to"have'it, wh0'is directed
how to
applyit. Again,
e
if the'legacy vested and she'fad died' before
.reaching thgea of eighteen, it wld hav gone to hei personal

632

SUPREME COURT.
-Price. v. Seisions.

representativesi but the will gives it another direction. I Roper on
-Legacies, 378, et seq. ; 3 Vesey, 236, 536; 1 Merivale, 422, 428'
8 Vesey, 547; 2 Merivale, 363, 384.
The rule is, that where interest-on a legacy is given to a legatee,
courts are inclined to consider it as a vested-legacy, although the
payment may be .postponed to a future time; but here the profits
were to go to the executor, and, in case of the death of. the legatee,
the property-was to go in another dfrebtioin than .b her natural heirs.
Was- it.within the protection of the law of Mississippi? The law
may be.inartificially drawfi, but its object is apparent. Wh.en it
.allows a woman to acquire-and hold separate property, it -is equiialent to saying that it shall not be resj onsible for the debts of the
ihusband. But it is said by the other side that the husband 'bad at
least an estate for life in the slaves, and that this estate was pioperly
liable to execution for his debts. But the act says that he 1s tb'have
the direction and control of them during c6verture, and how.can
this be complied with if they are removed out of it by being sold?
If this were so, the intentions of the legislature could always be
defeated, There are no" restrictions as to time or place, and-hey
might be sold for twenty or thirty years if the husband continued to
live so long and be removed to some distant place from which the
woman, when a widow, would find it impossible to reclaim them.
Was this what the leoislature mea'nt? All that" they intended .to
provide -for was that te husband 'should have a control 'over them
for safe keeping., They intended to cairy out their -idea plainly,
.withoutreference to techinical rules or contingent legacies. It has
been said that' the husband became vested with the property before
the passage off the act; but the counsel confounds his possession a's
executor with that as husband. A case has been cited from Virgnia, saying -that where a remainder in slaves belongs to a wife, the
band hs a vested right. But this is peculiar to that state.and.
arises froxhi her local laws. In Kentucky, slaves are real property
for some purposes,'and personal for others. The common law has
not.beeh the woman's friend. Society has placed her in ahigher
position thai).the law. Under a flattering pretence of unity between
husband -and wife,'the woman: has been considered as annihilated,
stripped of her property, and in widowhood, allowed only a scanty
pittance of the very property which she may have 'brought. "his
law of Mississippi is a wise and. just law, and-we hope it will re-*
ceive such a construction as will carry out the benign intentions of
the legislature. Sessions was not married when the d.ebts were
contracted, and no injustice' is done to his creditori by refusing to
apply his wife's'property to the payment of these debts.
'Ienderson,in reply and conclusion, referred to Roper on Lega.
cies, 403, to show -that a devise -over upon a contingency does
not prevent a legacy froim vesting. The husband here .claims to

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Price r.

6,3

essjions.

hold as execftor after his functions 8s executor have ceased, The
di tinction bdtiween the choses im action and property of -a wife" is
clearly poihted out in 3 Howard's Miss. Rep. 395: ' The-courts 4
Mississippi say that the iight of the husband is perfect without reducing them into possession. How :can "property in posses-sion be
a chose in action? Sessions had these slaves in possession; and has
them now. He undoubtedly had a life-estate in them. Thd ease
is badly brought up, because, the verdict of the jury includes both
land and slaves. In Mississippi propeAty taken in execution may
be repleviedS but this will- not apply to liid, The satute only
meant to put a wife's personal property in the same condition .where
the common law places her real estate. But the life-estate of a husband in lands may. be sold. The statute gives to-the husband the
use and control of the-wife's slaves as long as he liveg, and consequently she can have no benefit from them. under any-construction
of it.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question arising on the charge of the Circuit'Court is, What
interest had the husband, Sessions, in the property in controversy at
the time it was levied on for his debts: If he had any subject to*
execution, it was acquired- by the marriage with his wife as owner.
Her right depended on the will of her father.
Russell Smith died in 1836, in the state of Mississippi, leaving a
last will and testament, duly proved in Warren county, (27th July,
1836,) leaving E. J., Sessiqns, P. W. Defrance, John Lane, and
George Selser his executors; and also leaving-John Lane-testamentary guardian to the te'stator's only child, Martha Ann Smith. Sessions, Lane, and Selser qualified, as executors,
"The testator first provided, that 'his debts should be paid by the
.proceeds of crops from his plahtation; and that the force should
be kept together, until the crops paid the same, not-exceeding two,
however.

-

He next gave to his step-son, William D. Griffin, a section of
land, and various slaves to be delivered to this devisee, wen he
arrived at-the age of twenty-one years: - But should he die before,
then, and in that event, the property, real and personal was to be
divided between E. J. Sesgions, P.-W. Defrance, W.- Le Defiance
and Charles A. Defiance, provided they should be living-if not,
the'property to revert to the estate to be disposed of as thereinafter
provided.

.

* 2. All the remaining balance of the estate real and personal is
devised to the daua-hter, Martha Ann Smith-and should all of the
devisees mentioned'.in the first clause -be dead. before William D.
Griffin attained twenty-one years of age, then the whold estate was'
to be inherited by said Martha Ann. "But at all events (says the
will) the "property is to be kept together ard the foice worked on
VOL. II.-.80

684

SUPREME COURT.
Pric.e v. Sessions.

the pjaniation until my said daughter Martha Ann arrives at the
age ofighteen years; at which time my executors are to deliver
over to her all of the property first set apart for her,, and still retain
the possession of the legacy .to, W. D. Griffin, and not deliver it to
her if he lives until he is twenty-one years of age."
The proceeds
of the 'erops to be vested in young slaves, in the mean time.
If the daughter should die before she arrive at the age.of eighteen,
or had an heir of her body, then the 16gacy left her, (and that left to
Griffin also, if vested in her,) are directed to be disposed of other-wise-in charities, &c.
At about sixteen years of age Martha Ann mirried Egbert J. Sessions, one of the executors, whb had the principal management of
the estate, and possession of the property. For the additional facts
we refer to the statement'of the reporter. .On this -proof the court
instructed the jury, "that the property devised and bequeathed by
the will of, Russell Smith to.the claimant, Martha A., did not vest
in her, nor was *she entitled to the possession of it until -she, the
claimant, arriVed at .the age of eighteen years; and although she
married the defendant in the execution before that. time, the title of
the property could not be vested in him, until the claimant attained.
eighteen years of age, *atwhich time, under the will, she became
entitled to the possession of it; that the property in controversy is a
chose in action, and could not -vest in her husband until she or he
had reduced it to possession, which could nof be done, by the terms,
of the will, before she was eighteen years of age. If, therefore,
when the act of the Mississippi legislature, sepuring to married w6men their property, free from the debts of their husbands, (which
went into effect in April, 1839,) the claimant had not attained the
age of eighteen years, the husband had no legal estate in it, and it
could not be subject to this execution; nd if they believe from the
evidence, that the possession held by Egbert J. Sessions, one of the
defendants in the execution, was held as executor up to that time
jointly with the other executors,- such possession vested in him no
legalinterest by his marriage with the claimant, either to the land
or slaves, or other personal property." ,
As the legacy Was -outstaaiding at the time of the marriage, the
title was in the executors, subject, first, to the payment of debts; and
then the .claim of the devisee: but on the contingency, that until the
daughter arrive at eighteen, or had an heir of her body, she should
in the mean time take nothihg more thtn a support; and this whether she married or not, for a marriage was contemplated as possible
before the age of eighteen, as the becoming a mother before was
provided for, so that the child might take through the mother.
We think it is free from doubt that the executors had no power
to deliver possession of the property devised to the daughter before
either of the conitingencies above occurred; and that an attempt to
do so, either to the guardian,.or to the husband, would*have been-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

635

Price v. Sessions.

void because in violation of the manifest intention of the testator:
It follows, that until the wife arrived at the age of eighteen, or had
an heir of her body, the husband could only hold possession as
executor. Had he died before, then we think it clear, the wife
would have taken, and not the personal representative of the husband as the executors could: not assent in his behalf to the vesfiture
of the legacy in possession. Provisions in wills, that the executors
shall retain the property devised until the devisee is of lawful age,
and postponements to later periods, are of common occurrence; the
executors having assumed the ±rust, are held to its execution-on
tteir responsibility and prudence the testator relied, and not on future husbands that young and orphan daughters might marry; nor
on guardians selected by indiscreet and incompetent minors. These
evils are- too prominent, and have too long employed the anxious
cares of prudent testators, for this court to lend its sanction in any
degree to impair the -guards interposed by wills, whereby the rights
of possession an& enjoyment are withheld from devisees. As the
testator could have cut them off altogether if he would, there is no
ground for complaint recognised in courts of justice: And yet less
round for complaint is there in a case like the present, where an
individual creditor of 'the husband seeks to defeat the plain provisions of the will, by an assumption that the marital rights superseded the executorial duties, and conferred a power to deliver possession, which the will" expiessly prohibited.
Mrs. Sessions atfained the age of eighteen in June, 1840. In
April, 1.839 the act of Mississippi took effect, by which it is provided-that when any woman possessed of property in slaves shall
marry, her property in such slaves, and their natural increase, shall
continue to her, notwithstanding her coverture; and she shall have,
hold; and possess the same, as her separate property, exempt from
any liability for the debts or contracts of the husband: And when
any woman during coverture shall become entitled to, or possessed
of, slaves by conveyance, gift, inheritance, distribution, or otherwise, such slaves shall inure and belong to the wife in like manner,
as is above provided as to slaves which she may possess at the time
of marriage.
As the right of distribution in this case was postponed until after
the act of 1839 took effect, the wife could- only take the slaves exempt from the husband's debts ;--we say, could, because it does not
appear that the executorsof Russell Smith have assented to the legacy
and delivereff possession-to the legatee, Martha Ann,
Without, saying more, we are of opinion the charge of the Circuit
Court to the jurywas proper, and that the judgment must be affirmed.

