750

SUPREME-COURT.
Lessee of Hickey 't

al.-v. -Stewart et al.

that the acts of the legislature of Ohio, subsequent in date-to the
2d of March 1831, and the proceedings of the Board of Public
Works of that state- founded upon those statutes, are in violation
of no principle or right guarantied by the Constitution of the United
States, nor of any acts of .Congress passed in pursuance thereof;
nor of any contract at-any time existing between the state of Ohio
and the federal government. I am farther of opinion, that the aforesaid laws of Ohio were on the contrary designed, and are of a
tendency, fairly and justly, to distribute the tolls collectable within
her limits, on the road in question, so as to make them properly
subservient to the views of the federal goverment and of the
government of Ohio, at- the times of passing of the state law of
February-4th,4831, and the act of Congress of the 2d of March,.
1831 ; and in conformity with the express language of those laws;
and to prevent unwarrantable monopoly, and serious if not fatal
detriment to the road. I think that the decision of the Supreme
.Court of Ohio, being a correct exposition of the law.5 designed to
effect-these important objects, ougbtAherefore to be affirmed.

LESSEE OF PHILIP HICsMjt

ET AL., PLAINTIFF IN
STEWART ET AL.

ERtOR,

If.

JAmES A.

A defendant in ejectment cannot protect himself by setting up the record in a
-prior chancery suit between the same parties by which the plaintiff in the
ejectment had been ordered to cbnvey all his title to the defendant in the
ejectment, but in consequence of the,party being beyond the jurisdiction of
the court, no such conveyance had been made.
And this is so, although the Cou'rt of Chancery, in following up its decree; had
legally issued a haberefaciaspoaessionem, and put the defendant in ejectment
in possession of the land.
By the treaty .of 1795, between the United States and Spain, Spain admitted
that she had no title to land north of the thirty-first degree of latitude, and
her previous grants of lanid, so situated, were of course void. The country,
thus belonging to Georgia, was ceded to the United States, in 1802, with a
reservation that all persons who were actual settler. on 27th October, 1795,
should have their grants confirmed.- Congreps provided a board of commissioners to examine these grants, and declaijed that their decision should
be final.
The Court of Chancery of the state of Mississippi had no authority to establish
one of these grants which had not been brought within the provisions of the
act, of Congress. The claim itself being utterly void, and no power having
been conferred by Congress on that court to take or exercise jurisdiction
over it, for the purpose of imparting-to it lgality, the exercise of jurisdiction
was a-mere usurpation of judicial power, and the whole *proceeding of the
court void.
The docirine of this court in I-Peters, 340, reviewed and confirmed, viz., "that
the jurisdiction of an court exercising authority over a subject may be
inquired into in every other court where the proceedings of the former are
relied on, and brought before the latter by the party claiming the benefit of
such proceeding." .

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

751

Lessee of Hickey et. al. v. Stewart et al.

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit.
Court of the United States, for the southern district of' Mississipp.
It was an ejectment brought by Hickey's lessee against the defendants, as the heirs of Robert Starke, for two thousand acres of
land in the state-of Mississippi.
The facts in the' case ake fully -set forth in the opinion of the
court.
The question was, whether or not the court below erred, in permitting to be read in evidence, on the part of the defendants, the
record of a former chancery suit between the same parties, in which
the court had decreed that all the title- of Hickey et al. should be
conveyed to the heirs of Starke.
Coxe and Walker, for the plaintiff in error.
Henderson and Jsw, for the defendants in error.
Coxe said that the condition of the country where the land
in question was situated was described in "12Wheat. 524. The
distinction is important between an acquired. country and that where
a disputed boundary was settled. Different codes of laws prevail
in the one and the other. 12 Wheat. 535, another case.
This being an adjusted boundary, there was no obligation t6
recognise Spanish grants. 12 Wheat. 535.
The United States derived all their proprietarytitle from Georgia,
1 Laws U. S. 48S; and 'took it only upon cqrtain conditions,
3 Laws U. S. 39,. 380, 491, 546.
The act- of-1803 provided that the decisions -of the: commissioners should be final. Under it, our. claim was registered 'and
confirmed, in 1804,
Our title is therelore complete. But the defendants set up the
decree of'a court of equity; and the first question -is, can the
courts of the United States recognise- any power in a state court to.
divest us of our title? The judgment of the commissioners -was
made final; and as to the effect of this, see 4 Cranch, 269; 9 Cranch"
,127; 3 Wheat. 246; 6 Wheat. 109;'9 Peters, 8; 10 Peters, 449;
2 Bos. & Pul. 392.
Decisions may be impeached for fraud; but it must be fraud in
obiaining the judgment,. and not pre-existing. Story's -Conflict of
Lawsi 590; 591, 592; 2 Kent's Comm. 118.
The state of Mississippi could not have divested us of our title
by an act of legislation. How then can one of its courts-do it?
Again, it is a decree of a court -of equity. The title of the
plaintiff is a statutory title.from the United States, whose authority
no one doubts. Can equity interfere?. The act of Congress says
that the decision of the commissioners shall be'final. The rule of
law is positive, and equity cannot relieve against a positive law.
"Story on Equity, sect. 10, 1i, 64.

752

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Hickey et aL v. Stewart et.aL

An action at law cannot be maintained upon a decree in equity.
8 Wheat. 6.7; 3 Barn. & Adolph. 52.
If the party cannot maintain a suit, he cannot defend himself in
ejectment. Levin on Trqsts, 247, 482.
(Coxe then objected to the decree in many points of form,)
Henderson, for defendants.
Of the- second and third instructions refused to the plaintiffs, we
justify the.court's refusal in"
the language of the decree itself:
"That the title of the defendant was obtained by fraud and
force and violence, against the equitv of .complainant's ancestor,
... . it is thereFore ordered, adjudged, and&decreed, that the
title of defendants to said tract of land be, and the same is hereby
decfared to be, fraudulent and void as against complainants."
The legal title of the plaintiffs herein does not, therefore,," remain
unaffected at law by said decree," ....
and the decree does not
limit its cancellation of-title to equity merely; but it finds and adjudges the title "fraudulent and void," as against our grantors and
title. And so, too, we defend the court belo win refusing the fourth
instruction asked by plaintiffs below.
The decree is, that the defendants shall CCdeliver to complainants
the fUll, peaceable, and actual possession of said tract of land."
The presumption of law must arise, therefore, that the facts found
to subsist, in conformity -withthe decree, were brought about in conformity with -its command, and posseki6n so surrendered, and so
taken, may assuredly be lawfully retained. It was so ordered to begiven, that it might -be retained.
And of the charges given by the court. at the instance of the defendants, they vindicate themselves on reading--tself-evident propositions on their face.
Without further noting.these particular criticisms, we pass to meet
the substantial propositions from which they proceed, viz.:
1. Was the chancery -record admissible in evidence for any purpose? and if so2. Whatwas its legal effect?
It is objected, that these clhancery proceediigs do not purport to
be -a record at all. But besides, that the defendants have denomi"nated and regarded them as a record, and acted upon them as a final
decree of the highest court of law and equity in the state, and should
therefore be estopped in: this objection, (see the case on their appeal,
1 Peters; 94;) it is manifest; on inspection, ii-possesses all the elements of a formal and complete record. It is between all proper
parties, and consists -ofa bill, answer, plea, and replication..
Much testimony on the matter in controversy appears to have been
taken, on- which the court exercised their chancery discretion in
directingan issue at'law. This was duly tendered, joined in, and
verdict -thereupon rendered; exceptions taken, argued, and over-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

753

Les'sce of Hiekey et al. v, Stewart et al.

ruled, and thence decree ordered, made out, and duly enrolled, and
then thereafter appealed from to thd Supreme Court of the United
States. A judicial proceeding with these forms and contents, duly
certified as it is, must be Airecord. 7 Cranch, '408.
It is assurhed, too; that the Supreme Court, in treating the case as
with plenary and original powers, transcended their jurisdiction.
This conclusion' is deduced from the assumption that, as the decree
was not pronounced till 1824,.the powers of the court were governed
by the laws of 1822, found in Poindexter's Code; and-that, by these
laws, the Supreme'Court, in such a case, could only certif its opinion
to the inferior court to which-the case had been referred; and the
inferior court must adopt and execute a final decree in conformity
with thdopinion'so certified.
We do not consider, if this record were to be tested by the acts
of '1822, in Poindexter's Code, the conclusions of the appellants
would follow, or that the final jurisdiction exercised by the Supreme
Courtin this case iould be rendered doubkful. See sect. 30, p. 91;
sect. 9, p. 150; spet. 21, p. 154, of Poindexterls Code.
But, it is to be observed, this bill in chancery was filed in the
"superior court of law and equity," in Adams county, as early as
1815. The date of filing the bill does not appearin the record, but
the plea of one of the defendants is sworn to -14th'of October, 1815.
The controversy continued a lis-pendenstill final decree at December
term, 1824.
The territorial act of 22d December, 1809, (Turner's big. p. 178,
sect. 1:16,) gave .the jurisdictioi under which this suit was insti.
tuted.
A further act of' the territory, of 20th January, 1814, (Turner's
Dig. p. 201, sect. 203,) ave the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court
by which they took cogmsance-of the cause on reference, and which
expressly authorized therm-"to grant judgment thereon according'to
the right of the matter, and award execution?'
In th4 year 1817, the territory became a state;, and the laws generally were soon afterward, in 1822, revised by Poindexter, to conform to the modified system of jurisprudence appointed by the new
constitution. Bythis constitution, the jurisprudence of the Supreme
'Court was not specified, but left to the legislature to prescribe.
See Con.ititution, title ""Judicial Department," p. 550, Poindexter's
Code.
The act of 1822, (sect., 5, pp. 149, 150, Pain. Code,) established
this jurisdiction. The Poindexter Code was adopted ahd operative
in 1823; and while this chancery case was yet pending. But the
code expressly saved from its operation all such cases aswere -pending, by providing, per sect. 7,.p. 8, of the Code,
"That all remedies, which shall have been commenced uider
former laws, shall be and remain as though the said code had never
been adopted:"
VOL. HI.-95

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee-of Hickey' et al..tv. St'ewart et al.

This. decree is therefore in conformity tothe laws in,Tumer's Digest, and. this exception of the appellants is manifestly groundless.
And full to this point, see Blanchard's Adm. v. Buckbolt's Adm.,
1
Walk. Miss. Rep. 64.
. It is further objected to-this record and decree, that the Chancery
Court of Mississippi-had jo jiiisdiction of the subject-matter, on the
ground that the title'of the patentee was fixed by the government or
sovereign. power: 1st, by the decision of the Spanish governor;
2d,'by the 1st article of the compact 'of cession from Georgia to the
United States, of 1802; and 3dly, by the ascertainment of those entitled to confirmation under said article by the board of commissioners, as per section 6'of act of Congres§ of 3dMarch, 1803.
. To this we answer, 19t, that no title, emanating from this or any
other governmenti for lands now within the United States, can claim
immunity from investigatiin and adjudicatibn in he courts. And
if
the wilful
mistake
of the ministerial
of grantee,
goverment,
or the wrong
fraud or
and
-misrepresentation
of the officers
donee or
has induced the issuance of a patent to, one who,
by the laws and
policy of the government, was not equitably entitled to receive iF,
the-court may as they -perpetually
do, redress the wrong. cannot
And
under the act of cession, the appellants
2uaim
2dy, as toto the
'to
invoke
any
-protection
to
their
title
from
that
article,
be heard
the prejudice of the court's jurisdiction, as they did not show then,selves within the provision of that article on that occasion..See the
casd on appeal, 1 Peters, 94. And showing it now, coul in no
The patentee did
egree. impair tloe jurisdiction then exerciseD.
not, in the chancery suit, prove himself a settler on 27th October,
7q5. But had it been- shown, by the finding of the board of comMyissioners unde the 6,th section of te act of 1803, such proceeding
,could not preclude Strke from his judicial inquiry into his rights for
the same lands;' and-so the Supreme Court in Missssippi had previously adjudged. See case of Winn va.Coles' heirs, Walker's Rep,
119;
2 Howard,
1 It having
been603.
thus shown, the court in Mississippi had rightful
gse,
the
c
on the matters in
juridiction of the ause
and embraced in the d'ecree, is final and conclusive until reversed.
16 Peters, 87; 6 Wheat. 109; 1 Mason C. 0 R. 515; 3 Wash.
C. C. R. 28; 1 Brock. C. C.-R. 126 ; 3 Dal. 101 ; 2 Howard, 338
to 342.
What then shall be adjudged the proper and legal effect of our
record, as offered-in defence to the plaintiffs' action. The,'decree
,entitled those under,whom we claim to have had a formal conveyance of the legal title froin the patentee. The order in ,this behalf
-having been disregarded, this act of contumacy is now relied on as
remitting the parties to their patent right of title, unaffected by the
:decree pronouncing it fraudulent and void 'as against us.
'
In the view we entertain of this poit, the' inquiry is not regarded

JANUARY TERM; 1845.

755

Lessee of HIckey et al. t. Stewart et a:L

essential, whether our decree has qtialilled the legal title with a trust
to our use or not; or whether, in this relation of trustee and cestuit
gw, trust, our equitable title is a bar in ejectment to the recovery of
our trustee against us. We thinl'the authorities would sustain ug
in this position. A mortgagee, whose debthas been paid to him, or
a party holding the legal title as a resulting trust, or that of a trustee
by deed, after the trust is fully executed, cannot maintain ejefinent
against his cestui que trust, so entitled to call for the immediate
conveyance of the legal estate. 2 Harris and McHenryj 17 ; TWendell, 379; 3 Johns. Rep. 222; 2 Wendell, 134; 6 Munford, 41;
-1 Cowper, 46; 18 Johns. Rep. 12.
And an equitable title, of like description, is also adjudged in
Mississippi, (whose decisions must furnish .the law to this court in
this case,) as a bar to'this action. Brown v. Weast's heirs, 7 Howard's Rep., here in manuscript.
Clear, however, as our defence may be, under thii' aspect of the
authorities, we think it more obviously sustained, on grounds, less
technical and ofl rore ready comprehension,'viz. : upon the- rulei
that whatever takef away the plaintiff's right of possession, must bar
his recovery'in ejectment, notwithstanding his legal title. This rule
is displayed in its ifiost simple instances, when the defendant claims
as a lessee, or tenant in dower, or by the courtesy, &c. But it holds
whenever the right to possession exists in one party; though right of
property be in another. 6 Peters, 441, 442 ; 9 Wheat. 524; 3 Wash.
C. C. R. 204; 16 Johns.- Rep. 200..
Now the decree offered in evidence has expressly found, that the
patent is fraudulent and void as against the better right of our vendors. And the defendants therein, besides being commanded to
convey their title to the complainants, are required also, within sixty
days thereafter, to "deliver to complainants the full and peaceable
and actual possession of said tract of land."
Our derivative title under those complainants, and-our actual possession of the said tract of land being admitted, our right to the
possession must be sustained at law pr equity:
In the Cincinnati common dase, 6 Peters;, 441, the defendant's
claim to right of possession was established i~y no such formal and
solemn proof as here presented, and yet sustained as a bar to the
ejectment. The matters put in issue by the parties in our record,
and founcl by thi decree, are proven and established conclusively,-till the judgment be reversed. 6 Wheat. 113, 114. 117;
3 Wash. C. C.'R. 2S; 1 Brock. C. C. R.129. And, in deraignment of title before a court, a decree of title is good evidence even
against a stranger to the record. 4 Wheat. 217.
The appellants maintain, however, that the matters decreed in a
court of chancery are only available as evidence in a chancei-y court;
.or if admissible at all, in a court of law, must be received with
diminished. consideration, than if adjudged in a court of law. Not so.

7M6

SUPRE IE COURT.
Lessee of Hickey et al. v. Stewart et aL

The cases of 6 Wheat. 113, 114, and 3 Wash. C. C.*R, 28,
were of decrees offered in evidence in courts of law, and held of
equal validity as judgments at, law. And the former speculative
opinions, that debts and -charges on real est-dte, established by decree, were of less dighity and validity than judgments at law, no
longer prevail. 3 P. Wins. 401, n. (F.)
In the view we have taken of the sufficiency of our defence -in
showing our right of possession, it is of course unnecessary to maintain that a decree of title, in legal. consideiation, is equivalent to a
conveyance of title. Yet on principle, it must be so. A'co'mmissioner's deed, executed under a decree, is in itself form without substance." It hLs no force or ialidiy,' but, in virtue of the decree.
6 Peters, 400, 401. In 10 Peters, 245, it was decided, that a deed
of- conveyance, made pursuant to a decree, was in effict 'cancelled
nd annulled by' a reversal of the, decree under which it was exe.uted. But if, as the appellants would maintain, the deed so executed passed the legal title, it is adjudged in this case that the mere
reversal of the decree cancels and revests the leg-al title. Why,
then, when'the decree, (as in our record,) acting directly'on the legal
title, cancels it in the hands of the. holder, and expressly adjudges
it td belong'to another; why does it not transfer the legal title ? In
.1 Peters, 558, 559, 560, this principle is fully maintained. True,
the statute of Ohio is referredio for its authoritybut quere, if that
sttite should be regarded as any thing more than declaratory of the
leg al- effect of -a decree of title.'
Chancellor 'Kent considered the decree, even on the foreclosure
of a mortgage, to operate so directly on- the land and the title; that
on motion of the purchaser of the land (sold under the decree) to
have possession awarded him against the mortgagor's wife who refused tosurrender,it was adjudged the decree concluded the question
of possession,- as against all- parties and privies, and the"qours writ
of issistance was. directed in fayour of the application, and -this,
though the decree had not directed the possession, should be so
surrendered. .4 Johns. Ch. Rep. 614.
We believe, therefore, our case is so fortified in every aspect, both.
in it equity and at law, that this court must affirm-the judgment of the
court below.
-

Mr. Justice McIUNLEY deliVered the opinion of.the eburt.
This case is brought before the court by a-writ of error to the Circuit Court for the southern district of Missi'sippi.
The plaintiffs brought an action of ejectment against, the defendants in the court below; and upon the trial, the plaintiffs read in
evidence, to the jury, the copy of a plat and certificate of survey)
signed by Charles Trudeau, royal surveyor of the province of 'Louisiana, for.two thousand acres of land, French measure; and a patent,
i9sued by te Spanish governor-of that province, thereupon, to James

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

757

Lessee of Hickey et al. v. Stewart et-ai.

Mather, dated the 3d of April, 1794; and a deed- of conveyanae
from James Mather to George Mather, dated the 26th day of April,
1803, for the same tract of land; and they.also read in-evidence a
certificate, dated the 10th day of April, 1806, signed by. the commissioners, appointed by the Presiqent.of the United -States, -urder
the act of Congress, of the 3d of March, 1803, and the act, supplemental thereto, of the 27th of March, 1804; confirming to George
Matherthe said tract of land, by virtue of the articles -of agreement
and cession between.the United States and-the state of Georgia. It
was also proved that George Mather died, about the year 1812, and
that James Mather-was his heir; aAd that James Mather had died
pending the suit; and it was admitted by the defendants, that the
plahitiffs were the heirs of James Mather, " and whatever title he had
at his death vested in them or any others, his heirs, to be shdwmv
And it was admitted by-the plaintiffs, 1 that the defendants were
in possession of the land in controversy, and were so at"the fiin~e
this suit was brought, under derivative .titles from Robert Starke's
heirs, valid so far as Starke's title was valid." And the defendants
in support of the issue, on their part, offered'ib read the record of
the proceedings in a suit in chancery, in the Supreme Court of ther
state of Iississippi; in which the heirs of Robert Starke were conplainants* and the heirs of J3mes Mather. defendants. And by which
record it appeared, that the complainants set up and claimed title to
the land, here in controversy; under a warrant oi order of survey,
for two thousand acres of land, dated.about the 29th day of December, 1791, and the survey thereon; and the defendants claimed title.
under the survey and patent, of the Spanish government to James
Mather. And by the order and decree of that court, the land, in
controversy in this suit, was adjudged and decreed to the heirs of
Robert Starke.
To the reading of which record and proceedings, ,M evidence to
the jury, the plaintiffs objected, on these grounds: "First. That it
does not purport to be a record on its face, and Iii its context.
Secondly. That said record does not disclose, nor contain a finad
decree ; neither the said record, nor the said decree therein being
signed by the judges of the said Supreme Court of Mississippi.
Thirdly. That the pleadings and context .of'said record show, that
the chancery suit was entertained and treated by said Supreme Court
as a matter of original jurisdiction ; whereas the'statutes of Mississippi expressly providethat the opinion of the Supreme Court shall
be certified to the'court below, whose action and -adoption albne can
render the opinion' of the Supreme Court final upon a question of
law adjourned for its opinion. Fourthly. That the facts and the
law of ihe case, did not give the Chancery Court jurisdiction, inas.much as, after the treaty of 1783, a: Spanish warrant or order was a'
mere nullity, and could only be rendered valid, bythe holder bringing himself within the first section of theact of Congress of 1803, by
3.S
-

758

*R7JPI EE

-- 0 ti .

Lessee of Hickey, et al. v. Stewart et a].

*'esidence and culivation; whereas, as therecord shows, that Starke
was not -withinthat act; nor, if he had been, could he have derived
,any equity against d title, confirmed by the articles -of agreement
and cession between Georgia.and the Uited States, of the 14th of
April, 1802. Fifthly. That jurisdiction, legal and equitable, was
vested elsewhere, by the 6th secti6n of the act of 1803; such investiture of jurisdiction in an inferioirtriburial being exclusive of that
of any other tribunal. Sixthly.'lJiat a record or decree out of
chancery -is not evidence of a legal,.but an equitable title only, and
is, therefore, not pertinent to the issue joined. Seventhly. That the
decree, if read at all, must be iead as an estoppql by the record, and
subject to the rales as to estoppels. ' Eighthly. That a decree in
chancery must be read on the same footing as a judgzrent at law;
and unless carried out by a conveyance, can have no gr~atei effect
then a jutdgment in ejectment."
The court overruled these"objections, and perm.itted the record
to go to the jury, 'as evidence of any fact decided by it. To which
opinion of the court the plaintiffs excepted. , The plaintiffs, among
other instructions, some of which were refused and some granted.
but which need tot-be noticed here, moved the court to instruct the
jury;' "that the decree read in evidence, by the defendant's counsel,
does not per ge divest the plaintiffs,. or the ancestors of the plaintiffs
of the. legal title, but that said title remains unaffected at law by
said decree, and is still in plaintiffs, if the jury believe them to be
the heirs of said Mather."
There were several instructions moved by the defendants, some of
which-Were granted, and some refused; but as they.are either included
in the ruling of tl court, already noticed, or unnecessary to the
dedisibn of the points, on which we think this case ought to be decided, they.'will not be noticed in the investigation of the subject.
Two, questions- are distinctly presented by the'ruling of the Circuit Court. First. Whether the decree in'the suit in chancery was
a bar to the action of the plaintiffs. Secondly. Wheter the Court
of Chancery had jurisdiction of the subject matter. in controversy
before it in that case. For the plaintiffs in error, it has been
insisted, that the decree is not evidence of -a legal title, even if it
were otherwise valid, and, therefore, no bar to the action of ejectment; and that the possession of the defendants .nder the decree,
without a deed of conveyance as directed by it, whether by the writ
of habere faciaspossessionem or otherwise, gave no -legal title to the
defendants; and, therefore, opposed no legal bar to the plaintiffs'
action. And, secondly, it vas insisted, that neither the Court of
Chahcery, nor the Supreme Court of the state of Mississippi, had
jurisdiction of the subject matter presented by the bill of the complainants. The whole power to confirm Spanish titles, protected by
the contract of cession ly the stdte of Georgia to the United States,
Laving'been 6onferred, by act of Congress, on a board of commis-

JAN-UAR..Y

TERM, 1845.

759

Lessee of Hickey et aL. v. Stewart et al.

sioners, whose decision was by law made final, no other court could
decide upon the validity of those claims.
The converse 'of these propositions, was -maintained by the
counsel for the defendants. -And it was insisted, that the decree
operated as a conveyance, and also as ajudgment in ejectment,
the Court of Chancery having the power by statute to award the
writ of habere facias; and, therefore, the decree, aid p6ssession
under it,.is a legal bar to" the action of ejectment... And upon the
second point it was insisted, that the jurisdiction of the court over
the subject matter of 'the decree could not be iquired into-by the
court below, nor by this court, when brought before either collaterally. .To arrive at the legal effect of the decree, we must inquire
.into the object and intention of the complainants, in bringing the
sdit in chancery,. 'They charge n their bill, that James Mather had
obtained fromthe Spanish governfhent the legal title to the land in
controversy, in fraud of the rights of their ancestor, Robert Starke;
and they pray that by decree of the ourt, Mather may be compelled
to surrender to them.the full and entire possession of the land, to7
gether with the evidences of itle which he has thereto,.and that they
maybe-quietad in their title; 1 and such other and. further relief in
the premises as to the court shall seem meet:" '
The court by its decree established the right'of the complainants
to the land in controversy, and ordered'OMther's heirs, who were
all non-residents of: the state of Missisippi, to convey the land to
the complainants, and to deliver to them the possession, and
awarded the writ of haberefacias;,whichwrit the Court of Chancery
is authorized to order by a statute of the state. Without the aid
of this writ, the court could-not have put the complainants into possession, the defendants beffig out of their jurisdiction; nor could
they for the same reason compel a conveyance of the title to the
'land. . The decree is, therefore, if otherwise valid, nothing more
4han an equitable right, ascertained by the judgment and decree of
a court of chancery; and until executed by a conveyance of the
lekaltitle, according to the decree, Starke's heirs,'and those claimingunder them, have nothing but an equitable'title to the land in
controversy.
To enable'the defendants in this case to defend their. possession
successfully, upon their own title, that title -mustbe shown to-be a
good and subsisting.legal title, and superior in law to that set up by
the plaintiffs.; otherwise it opposes no legal bar to the recovery in the
action of ejectment. And conceding, what was contended for inr
argument, that the decree and possession under it, by the writ of
haberefacias,is equivalent to'a jud ment in ejectment, followed by
like possession, it would avail the defendants nothing in this case ;
because such a judgment and possession are no bar t6 another action of ejectment for the same premises. The defendant in ejectment can never defend his possession against the plaintiff upon a.

760

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee 6f Hickey et a]. v. Stewart et-al.

Aitle in himself, by which- 'ie could not recover the possession, if
he were out, and the plaintiff in possession. , Reversing the positions of the parties 'in this case, could the defendants, if plaintiffs,
recover the land in controversy upon this decree, and evidence of
-possession under it, against the title of the plaintiffs? We have no
hesitation in saying .they could not; and, therefore, the decree, if
founded upon a valid 'quitable title, would be no legal bar to the
action of the plaintiffs.
To a correct understanding of the-question of jurisdiction, argued
at the bar, it is necessary to ascertain the character of the grant set
up by Starke's heirs in the suit in chancery. This grant was o1btained from the Spanish governor f' Iouisiana, prior to. the treaty
between the United States and Spain, of the 27th of Oct6ber, 1795.
By this treaty, Spain admitted she had no right to the territory north
of the thirty-first degree of north latitude. In consequence of which,
all the grants made by her authority, within: that territory, were
void. " This territory thenbelonged to the state of Georgia- but by
deed, bearing date the 24th day f April; 1802, she ceded it to the
United States. And in that teen it was stipulated, "that all persons who, on the 27th of October, 1795, were actual settlers within
the territory thus ceded, shall be confirmed in all the grants legally
and fully executed prior to that day, by the former British government, oi the government of Sp: in," &c. The first section of the
- act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1803, chap,. 80, (2 Story's Laws,
893,) enacts, TfThat any person or persons that were residents in the
Mississippi territory on the 27th of October, 1795, and who had
pnor to that day obtained, either from the British government of
West Florida, or the Spanish government, any warrant or order of
survey for lands lying within said territory, to which the Indian title
had been extinguished, and which, on that day, had been actually
inhabited and cultivated by such person' or persons, or for his or
their use, shall be confirmed in .theik claims to such lands in the
same manner as iftheir claims had been completed." This section
places those who'had obtained a -warrant or order of survey upon
the same ground with those who had complete titles. The 5th
section of the act declares, "That every person claiming lands -by
,virtue of British grant, or of the three first sections of this act, or
of the articles of agreement and cession"between the United States
and the state of Georgia, shall, before the last day of March, '1804,
deliver to the register of the Land-office, within whose distr.ct:the'
land. may be, a notice in writing, stating the nature and extent Qf
* his claims, together with"a plat of the tract or tracts claimed ; and
shall also, before that day, deliver to said register, for the purpose
of being recorded, every grant3 order of survey, deed of convey.ance, or other written e-,idence of his claim, and'the same shall be
recorded by the said register in books to be kept for that purpose2
And upon the failure of the claimant to comply witi ttiese require-

JANUARY TEI M, I845.

-761

Lessee of Hickey et al. v. Stewart et aL

ments, his claim is declared'to be void, and shall never "be.received or admitted as evidence in any court in the United States
any grant derived from the United States."
.a!aiV&
The 6th section of the act provides for the appointment of two
boards of commissioners, for the purpose of ascertaining the rights
of persons claiming the benefit of the -articles of agreement and cession between .the Vnited States and the state of Georgia, and of the
three &rst sections of the act. Each board was authorized to hear
and decidein a summarymanner, all matters respecting such claims
within their respective districts, and their determination was declared to be final.
The record of the chancery.suit between Starke's heirs and Ma-ther'sheirs, shows that Starke was not resident.in the Mississippi
territory on the 27th of October, 1795, but had removed therefrom
some years before that period; that no notice of his claim had been
given to the register of the Land-office, within whose district it lay1,
together with a plat of the tract claimed and delivered to the register, to be recorded as required by law. 'Nor .does it appear that
the claim was ever submitted tn the board of commissioners for their
determination.' Many years a1~rwards, the exact time not appearing by the imperfect record read in evidence, the court of chancery
for the Mississippi territory, without any authority having been conferred on it by act of Congress for that purpose, took cgnisance of
Starke's claim, and established its validity by its own judgment and
decree.
In the case of Henderson v. Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 543, 544,
the court says, "1The whole legislation en this subject requires that
every title to lands in the country which had been occupied by
Spain, should be laid before the board of commissioners. " The motives for this regulation are obvious; and as the title had no intrinsic validity, it was opposed by- no rinciple. Claimants could not
complain, if the law which gave validity to their claims should also
provide to examine their fairness, and shbuld niake the validity depend updn their being laid before that board. T7he plaintiff in error
has failed to bring his case before the tribunal which the legislature
had provided for its examination, and has, therefore, not brought
himself within the law. No act of Congress applies to a grant held
by a non-resident of the territory in October, 1795, which has.not
'been laid before the board of commissioners. It is true that no act
has declared such grants void; but the legislature has ordered the
lands to be sold which were not appropriated in a manner repognised by law, and the land in controversy is of that description.
"If this view of the subject be correct, no Spanish grant; made
while the country was wrongfully occupied by Spain, can be valid,
unless it was confirmed by the.contract with Georgia, or has .heen
laid before the board of commissioners." This tribunal wai created for the express .purpose of deciding all questions arising uipder
3 s2
VOL. mI.-96

7(2

SUPREME COURT.
Leasee of Hickey et. al. v. St'ewart et aL

the deed' of cession by Georgia, seQuring to a particular class, of
claimants the lands they occupied an& cultivated at the date. of the
treaty between the United States and Spain, of the 27th of October;
1795, and its decision was to be final; and therefore its jurisdiction
was exclusive; unless, by express words, Congress had conferred
concurrent jurisdiction on some other judicial tribunal. From these
- propositions results the inquiry, Whether the decree in the chancery
suit was void, the court having no jurisdiction of the subject-matter
of the decree, or only erroneous and voidable? If the former, then
its validity was inquirable into in' the current court, when: offered as
evidence, and it ought to have been rejected..
According to the decision in the case of Henderson v. Poindexter,
above referred to, Starke's claim, when submitted by hi heirs to
the Court of Chancery;was utterly void; and no power having been
conferred by Congress, on that court, to take or exercise. jurisdiction
over it for the purpose of imparting to it legality, the exercise of
jurisdiction was a mere usurpation ofjudicial power, and the' whole
proceeding of the court void.
In the case of Rose v. Himelyj Chief Justice Marshall said, "1A
sentence professing on its face to be the sentence of-a judicial tribunal, if rendered by a- self-constituted body, or by a body not
empowered by its government to take cognisance of the subject it
had decided, could have no legal effect whatever. The power of
the court -then is, of necessity, exam'inable to a certain extent by
that tribunal, which, is compelled-to decide whether its sentence has
changed the 'right of property. The power 'under which it acts
must be -looked into, and its authority to decide questions which it
professes to decide, mUitbe considered." CUpon principle, it would
seem, that the operation of every judgment must depend on the
cower of th' coirt to render that judgment ;. or, in other-words, on its
jurisdiction over the subject-matter which it has determined." In
the case of Elliott and others v. Piersol ih& others, 1 Peters; 34G,
it was-held by this court, that " Where a court has jurisdiction, it
has a right to decide every question which occurs in the cause; and
whether its decisions be correct or otherwise, its judgment; until
reversed-''is regarded'as binding in every other court. But if it
acts -without authority, its judgments and orders are regarded as
nullities. They are not voidable but simply void, and form no bar
to a recovery sought, even prior to a reversal, in opposition to them.
They constitute no justification; .and all persons concerned in executing such judgments of sentences are consideied, in law, trespassers. This distinction runs through alf the cases on the subject;
and it proves, that the jurisdiction of any court exercising authority
over a subject, may be inquired into in every other court when the
proceedings of the former are relied -on, and brought before the
latter by the party claiming the benefit of such proceedings." '
The same dogtrine was maintained, by this co'ut-, in the case of

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

763

Wilson & Co. v. Smith.

Wilcox and Jickson, 13 Peters, 511, and the case of Elliott and
others v. Piersol and others, referred to, and the decision approved.
These cases being decisive bf the question of jurisdiction, we deem it unnecessary to refer to any other authority on that point. From
the view we have taken of the whole subject, it is our opinion, the
decree of the Supreme Court of Mississippi would have been no bar
--to the action of the plaintiffs in this case, if the suiject-matter of
the stit had been within its jurisdiction. ' -But we are of the opinion,
that court had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and that the'
whole proceeding is a nullity. The Circuit Court erred, therefore,
in permitting the record to be read to the jury, a evidence for any
purpose whdtever. Wherefore the judgment of the Circuit C6urt
is reversed.-

THoxAs W1fsoN A D COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS, V. HORACE SMITH,
DEFENDANT.
Whenever,.by express agreement of the parties, a sub-agent is to be employed
by an agent to receive money for the principal; or where an authority to do
so may fairly be-implied from the usual course of trade, or the nature of the
transaction; the principal may treat the sub.agent is his agent, and when he
has received the mohey, may recover it in an action for money had and re-.
ceived.
'If, in sach case, the sub-agent has made.no advances and given no new credit
to the agent on account of the remittance of the bill,,the sub-agent cannot
protect himself against such an action by passing the amount of the bill to
the general credit of the agent, although the agent may be his debtor.

THis case came up on a certificate of division in opinion between
the judges of the Circqit Court of the United, States for the district
'of Georgia,
The record being very short, it will be inserted entire.-'
"This was an action of assumpsit brought. in this court by the
plains, to recover from the defendafit the sum of eiglit hundred:
dolhrs and interest, being the amount of a drai-'or bill of exchange
drawn by one He6ry B. Holcombe, of Augusta, in the state of
Georgia, upon one Charles F. Mills, of Savannah, in said state, ahd
.accepted by him, and paid to the defendant. The declaration contained two Counts. The first 9vs for' money collected and received.
by the defendant.to aid for the use of the plaintiffs, upon the par-"
ticular bill, of exchange set"out and -4escribed in the declaration;
the second count -was generally for money had and teceived. The
plea of non-assumpsit was pleaded'by the defbndant in bar of the
action, 'it being proved that the draft or bill of' e~change 'upon
which the money was collected and received by the defendant was
the property of the plaintiffs;' that it had been by.them placed in the
hands' of their agent, David W. St. Joth% at Augusta, Gborgia, for

