SUPREME COURT.

Ain D. H. DAvIEss ET AL., PLI.rsT

s IN ERROR, V. Jom 1.

FAXRBAIRN ET AlZ.. HEIRS OF MARY E. FzanBAnN, .DEcEzAsD,

Dr

FENDANTS IN ERROR.

rfi
affirmative statutes, uch parts of the prior as may be incorporated into the
subtsequent statute, as consistentwithlif,"nust be Zonsidered in force.
If a subse4uent stitute be not repugnant ir all its provisions to a-prior one, yet
if the later statute clearly intended to prescribe the ohly rules which shoulg
govern, it repeals the prior one.
Under the -application of these rules, the law of Virginia, passed in:1776,
authorizifig the mayor of a city to take the acknowledgment of a feme covert
-to a deed, is-mot repealed by the act of 17e5, or that of 179d.

TnIs case was brofight up.by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United State for the district of Kentucky.
It was an ejectment brdught by the. heirs. of Mary E. Fairbaim,
to recover a 34f-acre lot in the city of Louisville, designated on the
old. plan as nuritber 22, and on the n w plan as number 31.
There were many questions in the case,- but as the opinion of the
court -turned upon a single- point, it is not necessary to state any
except that one.
On the 12th Of Marci, 1811, Mary K. Fairbairn; being the wife
of Thomas H. Fairbairi, and the -owner of the lot in controversyi
subject to the dower interest of her motherbunited with her husband
and mother in executing-a deed -for,the premises. She then resided
in the city of Baltimore. It was alleged by her children and heirs
that this deed was incompetent to pass her interest, being improperly
executed.
They therefore brought an ejectment to recover it.
The deed vWaq as follows:
"This indentue, made this 12th.day of March, in the'year of-our
Lord 1811, between'Elizabeth Henry, Thomas • H. Fairbairn and
Maria his wife, (daughter and heiress of Daniel Henry, dicease'd,)
of-the city of Baltimore, in the state of Maryland, of the dne part.
and Dr. Richard Ferguson, of the town of Louisville, in the county
of Jefferson and state of Kentucky, of the -other yart, witnesseth:
that the said'Elizabeth Henry, and Thomas H. Fairbairn and Mara
his wi(, for and in consideratibn of the sum of eight hundred dot
lars, ,current money of the United- States of America, to the said
Thomas H. Fairbairnin -hand paid, at and before the - execution of
these .presents, th receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, -the
said•Elizabeth Henry, as tenant in dower, bath aliened, released,
and cbfirmed, and by theae* presefits dpgt alien, release, -and confirm; and the said Thomas H. Fairbairn,as tenant .by the curtesy,
and the said Maria his wife, as tenant in fee-kiimple, have granted,
bargained, sold, convqyed, released, and confirmed, and by these
presents doth grant, bargain, sell, release, convey, .and coii.nw,
unto the said Richard er.on, his heirs and assigns) for ever, a

JANUARY TVRM,' 184.

6V7

Daviess et a]. v, Fairb-airn et aL

certain lot of land., with all tlie appurtenances, 4ituate, lying, and
being in the town of Louisville aforesaid, and known on the plan
or map thereof by the number -ninety-one, (91,)-.containing half an
acre, be the same more or less, on Main street, adjoining thepnorthwardly side of the half-acre lot whereon the said Ferguson now
lives, and between the same and Main street: to have and to hold
the said half-acre lot number ninety-one, with all the appurtenances,
unto the said' Richard Ferguson, lis heirs and- assigns, to -his'and
heir only proper. use and behoof for ever. And the said Thomas.
H. Fairbairn 'and Maria his ife do covefnant and agree, to and with
the said Richard Ferguson, and his heirs and assigns, that they, the
said Thomas and Maria,- will, and their heirs; executors, and administrators, shall, -warrant 'and for ever defend the said lot of land num-,
bered iiiety-one, with all the appurtenances, unt6 the said Richard
Ferguson, his heirs and assigns, againmt' all and every person or
persons whatsoe ier lawfully claimng or to claim the same.
"In witness whereof, the said Elizabeth Henry, Thomas H. Fairbairn, and Maria his wife, have hereto set their'hand and seals, on
the day and year first written.
ETizApET

HmNY,

Tiaoms H. FAIiRAIRN,

[L.. s.]
[L- s.

MARIA ELIZA FAmsAN.

[L. S.]

"Signed,
and delivered, in presence ofEDW'Dsealed,
SIOHNSTON,
JNO. HARGROvE,.

HENRY PAYSON',
Cur. BuLirrT,
THOMAS LESTER."

"Baltim e county, state of Maryland, set.:
" Be it known and remeinbered, that on this 12th day of March,
1811, Elinabeth Henry, and Thomas H. Fairbairn 'and Maria his
wife, parties to the within and foregoing deed of conveyance to
Dr. Richard Ferguson, come in their proper person before me, Edward Johnston, mayor of 'the city of Baltimore, in the state aforesaid, and signed, sealed and delivered said deed of conveyancee, as
and for their voluntary act and deed; and the said Maria, beingprivately examined by me out of'the presence and.hearing of her said
husband; did, of-her own free will.and consent;-agaM consent to and
aclcnoledge the said deed of conveyance as and for 'her.act and
deed, the -ame being shown and explained 1o 'her; and also relinquishedt and released all her right, title, interest, and estate, and fee.
of, in, and to the -lot of land number 91, with all the appurtenances
by the said'deed conveyed, Qr intended to'be conveyed.
vhdeof, I have'hereto set my hand, and
""In testimony
[L. S.]. caused
the corporatd seal of the city of Baltimore to-be herentQ affixed, the: diy and year above written.
"FED'
JomNsvoyi mayor of the city of Baltimore."'
3H

63 8

SUPREME COURT.
Daviess et a]. v. Fairbairn et aL

Upon the trial in the court belpw, the following instructions were
given with reference to this deed.
"And in substitution of a number of instructions moved by the
plaintiff, the court gave to the jury these instructions.
".Ifistead of the plaintiff's,instruction No. 1, the court instructed
the jury, that the deed of conveyance by-Thomas H. Fairbairn, &c.,
of 12th March, 1811, to the defendant Dr. Richard Ferguson,
whereof a copy was read in evidence by the plaintiff, was not m
law the deed of the feme covert Maria E. Fairbaim, is not her deed
of conveyance for any purpose whatever, and passed from her to
Dr. Ferguson no estate whatever in the lot of land in controversy."
The bill of exceptions brought up this instruction, amongst others.
The question was, whether the mayor of the city of Baltimore
had a right to take- th ackn6wledgment.
The act of Virgi-ia, passed in 1776, which had been adopted by
Kentucky, (4 Littell's Laws of Kentueky, 432,) allowed the mayor
of a city to take an acknowledgment, where the grantor-resided out
of' Virginia.
Two acts were afterwards passed by Virginia, one in 1785 and
the other in 1796, prescribing other modes- of taking acknowledgments in such cases, and the question was, whdther" these acts
repealed that of 1776. The provisions of these acts aie quoted in
the opinion -of the court, and need, not fie repeated.
0Cittenden, for the plaintiffi in error.
Loughborough, f6f the defendants in error.
C7ittenden, fobi the 'plaintiffis in error, referred first to the act of
Virginia passed in1748, (4 Littell, 423; 1 Statute Laws of Kenfucky, 429,) and then to the succieding acts.' The act of 1785 was
thought to repeal that of 1776, but there was no repealing clause in
it, and the courts of Kentucky construe them-to be inpari nateria:
'The laws of "Virginia successively enlarged the means of conveyto enable," &c. The
ance. The title of the act of '1796 was -",
rule is, that repugnancy in statutes must be clear and undeniable,
before courts will assume it to exist. Dwarris on Stat 638, 699,
717) 718, 726, 734.
And again,- where a statute is remedial and enlarging, it will not
be held to control the operation of a previous one. The general
character of these statutes is' enabling. The act' of 1776 allows
femes covert to go before a mayor; .that of 1785 to appear in court
and acknowledge a deed. Where is the inconsistency between the
two ? If the latter is a repeal of 'the-former, wehave never found
it out in Kentucky. There are more conveyances of land there than
in any other state, and much land is ownied by non-residents. Up
to 1827, the doctrine now contended for was never heard of. .The
first time- that the question was raised was in the case of Hynes and
Campbell, 6 Monroe;,286, much relied on by the other side. But

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

020

Daviess et al. v. Fairbaira et aL

there was no question in that -case about - feme covert. A deed
was set aside because justices did not certify that it was subscribed
before them. The court say that the act of 1785 repeals that of
1776 as to justices. But then the-provisions of the two laws are
inconsistent with each other in this respect. In Miller v. Henshaw,
4 Dana, 327, the point is not 'decided. There are mme loose dicta,
but although. the decisions of state courts upon state laws are binding upon this court, dicta of judges are not. In Taylor-v. Shields,
5 Littell, 295, the-court held that a subsequent statute -requiring
deeds to be rec6rded in eight months, did -not repeal a prior one
allowing eighteen months. -6 Monroe, 186, refers to the preceding
case.' The act of 1796 contains'a general repealing clause, (1 Littell,
508, 509,) repealing all that is inconsistent vith the acts therein
recited and" continued. But affirmative subsequent statutes are not
held to 'be inconsistent with prior ones. 6 Co. Rep..part 11, p. 54.
The Digest sanctioned by the judges of the court of appeals contains this act of 1776.
Lougborough, for defendanfts -in error.
The first opinion of the court pionounced on -the trial was, that
the deed-f March 12, 1811, was-ineff~etual as to the wife ofT. H.
Fairbairn, and that her title to the lot did not pass thereby.
The act of Virginia of 1748 respecting conveyances provided for
cases of conveyances by-persozis residing in the state. It will be
found in 4 Littell, 423, (1-Statute LaWs of Kentucky, 429.)
By the bct'of 1785, (1 Statute Laws,-432,) husband and wife residing in another state were enabled to convey the dower or inheritance of the wifewithin the commonwealtliy the acknowledgment
of 'the deed, and the privy exaniination of the wife before two justice-s of peace of the .contory. of the-wife's resideniceito be eimpowered
by a 'commission for that purpose from the court in which the deed
should be recorded.
By an a - of 1792, (1 Littel,- 152, 1 Statute La:ws, 434,) -the iieknowledginent and subscriptioh of the dee~d before.two justices 6of
the peace,though not empoweed by commission, and their certificate of the privy'examination -of the "wire, upon being recorded in
due time, shall be effectual to ass the wife's right of dower.
In -1795, shortly after Kentucky became a state, its legislature
considering the-.complesity and n.ertainty of the- statute' laws ii
force, provided by ac of December 17, (1 Littell, 293,) for a revision
thereof, fcr a selection of such as 6uglit to be conthued "in force,
and for a reduction of all of those relating to the same subject into
one act.
Revisors were acedi-dingly appointed, and discharged their'duty.
The results of their laboiir& may be seen in various -important acts
passed in- 1196, in-Uie first volume of Littell%' Laws. • Raving'enacted them, the legislatere, by an iact of th6 19th -December,-1796,

640

SUPREME COURT.
Daviess et al. v. Fairbairn et al.

provided -that they should take effect on the 1st day of January,
1797, and that so much of any act' or.acts as came within the puriview of the said acts should be repealed from and after that day.
1 Littell's Laws, 50, 609.
One 'of these revised 9tatutes was the act to reduce into one the
several acts for regulating conveyances, 1 Littell; 567,.(1 Statute
Law, 437.) It provides specially (section 4) for, ie conveyance by
husband and Wife, living in another statei of the wife's land in Kentucky. Thb mode prescribed is the acknowledgment of the deed,
and the privy examination of the wife before two justices of the
peace of the county of her residenee, to .be commissioned for that
purpose. " This act also embics' the provisions of the act of 1792,
respecting the transfer of the wife's dower, in its 6th, 7th, and 8th
sections.
It was the law in force at the date of the deed to Ferguson.
In Elliott- v. Piersol], 1 Petdrs, 338, this court held that in Kentucky the capacity of a feme covert to convey her land, is the creature of the statute law, and that to make her deed effectual, the
forms and solemnities provided by-that law must .be observed. This
is the received doctrine in the courts of Kentucky. It is held i there,
that the deed of a. feme covert to convey her inheritance, or even
her dower, must not only be ex6cuted in the mode, and with the
solemnities required by the statute -laws, Phillips et ux.'v. Green,
3 Marshall, 12; Steele v. Lewis; 1 Monroe, 49; Roberts' heirs v.
Elliott's heirs,'3 Monroe, 397; Smith v. White, 1 B. Monroe, 19:
but it -must be actually recorded, together with the certificate of her
privy examination, not merely lodged in the proper office for record,
Whitaker 'v. Blair, 3 J. J. Marshall, 241 ; Tomlin v. Mc'Chord's
Reps., 5 J. J. Marshall, 336; and that,-too, within the time fixed by
the statute, otherwise it is vdid. Prewitt v. Graves, 5 J. J. Marshall,
124; Applegate . Giacy, 9 Dana, ,215. And to authorize its
recordation it must be authenticated in the mode p--scribed, and
by the officers appointed, for that purpose. Hunt v. OWings, &c.,
4 Monroe, 21-; -McConnell v. Brown, Litt. Sel. Cases, 404; Woma6k v. Hughes, Ibid. 292. And if, in fact, placed on the record
without being so authenticated, it is still regarded as an unrecorded
instrument-cases last cited.
'These cases show the strictness with which the statutes of Kentucky, authorizing narried women to part.'with their titles, have
been" construed by its courts; and *the care they have exhibited in
the proteotion. of the rights of such persons and their heirs.
In this case, though the deed to Ferguson was in fact recorded, it
W-as not upop. its authentication, as regarded the feme covert, properly admitted -upon the records.. As to her it is an unredorded deed.
The Mayor of Baltimore 'was not authorized to take her acknowledgment, and to make and certify- a privy examination.
. At was contended. in the Cjrcuit Court that he deriVed authority

641

JANUARY TERM, -1845.
Daviess et aL v. Fairbairn et' al.

to, perform iese acts from a statute of Virginia of 1776, (4 Littell,
432.)
The'answer to this is, 1st. That this act was impliedly repealed
by the act of 1785.
This act of 1785 occupied the same ground, and so far as*regards
conveyances of real estate, contemplates and provides for the same
case. It was decided by the Court'of Appeals of Kentucky, in the
case of Hynes v. Campbell, 6 Monroe, 289, that this act virtually,
yet effectually, repealed that of 1776.
2d. When the legislature passed the act of 1796, it was obviously intended that all the provisions of existing statutes on the subject
of conveyances should be hereby supersoded. Its history and-title
make &is manifest. It was a codification of all the laws which it
was intended should remain in force. Its first ections are the same
as those of the act of 1785. Those succeeding are the provisions
of the act of 1792. The old act of 1776 was wholly dropped.
Other modes than those of that act being adopted for the convey-.
ance of land by non-residents.
Without a clause of repeal, it would seem that after the act of 1796,
that of 1776 was not in force. To hold otherwise would imply the
folly on the part of the legislature in the effort to render simple and
condense into one law all acts on the subject, to have retained two
acts on the same subject by which the sale thing could be done in
different modes--'or would be to deny to the legislature the power
to simplify and reduce into one the Jaws of conveyances, since
there can be no-doubt that was its intention. But having adopted the codes, so to cll them, of the reisors,
the legislature, by a separatd act, passed on the same day, (1 Littell,
508,) as if to leave no doubt upon this subject, expressly repealed
all former acts coinng within the purview of these statutes.
Can it be said tfiat the act of 1776, so far as it regarded conveyances of rel estates, by non-resident husbands and wives, is not
within the ,urview of the act of 1796?
As to what subsequent statutes annul prior, ones, see 1 Pickering,
45; 12 Mass. Rep. 563; 5 Pickering, 169. The case of Taylor v.
Shields ought to have no weight upon this point. There must have
been an error in copying the word "eight" instead of "eighteen."!.
The last syllable must have been left out by -mistake, for r/o good
reason can be given'for allowing the people of the state eighteen
months to record their deeds, and restricting non-residents to eight.
It is admitted by the other side that- the act of 1796 .rcpeals the
prior statute*as to*justices of the peace, because it makes provision
for them; but it is argued that the authority of'a mayor was permit-ted to remain, because no n 'ice is taken of him in the act. But
both laws are equally applicahie to justices. What good. reason,
then, can be given for the distinction?
This case does not rest on an implied repeal only; we say that
-

VOL. UI.-81

3H2

642

SUPR9ME CO.OUtT.
Daviess et al. v. Fairbairn et al.

there was an express repeal. The revisors were to collect what
'was proper to be 'retained, and omit what ought to be left out.
The title of the act of 1796 was ",to reduce into one," &c. One
branch of the laws reported on by the revisors related to county
courts, and upon this subject they made an entirely new code. We
say that the game purpose was intended with regaird to the deeds
of femes covert. Additional guards were thrown around them for
protection. They were required to go into a court or befor ,commissioners. If the legislature had repealed the whole act of 1776,
by name, they would have gone further than they wished, because
they intendedall such parts of 'it as related to personal property to
.remain in force. We must find out the intention of the legislature
by looking at the evils which existed before the passage of the law,
the circumstances of the case, &c. 6 Dane's Abr. 595 ; 9 Peters,
317-; 3 Wheatolh, 610.
It is said, in 6 Da.ie, 595, that where the legislature intends a revision, it amounts to a repeal of prior laws.
In the act of 1798, clerks are directed to record papers "acknowledged as before prescribed," which shows that the legislature intended to make a new rule.
Crittenden, in reply and conclusion.
'The deed is admitted- by the other side to be good, if the statute
of 1776 is.not repealed. The burden of proof is on him, theiefore,
to show that it has been so; and it has been attempted to be shown,
'1. From its being'inconsistent with the act of 1785.
2. From its inconsistency with 1796
3. From an express repeal by 1796.
The fact that the act of 1796 is the work of revisors, cannot affect
the construction of it.. There is no rule like this laid down by the
elementary writers. It is only, after all, a revised statute. Every
act of a legislature implies a revision of all former laws; and is the
construction'of it to be varied, because A. B. prepared it? A part
of the duty of rdvisors is to say-what statutes shall be repealed. If
they thought that the act of 1776 ought to have been repealed, why
did they not say so ? A revised act is-cumulative, 11 Leigh, first*
case in the volume. What part of the act of 17.85 repeals that of
1776? By-1748 deeds must be acknowledged before the General
Virginia.- By,1776 a feme covert
Court, or aCounty Court, in,
may go before a mayor, and by,1785 she may go before any court
of record, or two justiceS appointed by a commaission. But these
might all be put into one statute, and not be'inconsistent with each
other. IHow can the circumstance that they are in different statutes
vary the result? Statutes in pari mderia must be construed together.
Iri 5 Pickering, a hi her penalty was imposed than had been imposed by a preceding law. Here there was a direct conflict. But

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
1-

Dav:iess et a.

643

v. Fairbair'n et aL

in the case in Foster, where £20 per month, and 12d. per Sunday,
were inflicted for not going to ch~ich, both penalties could be levied.
The multiplication of the means of acknowledging deeds was only
a facility afforded to women.
If the act of 1785 did not repeal that of 1776, the act.of 1796 did
not, because it is almost an exact transcript of former laws. The
designation of one person to do any given thing, does not exclude the right of another to do the same thing. ft is-said that the
legislature intelided to protect women, but Mrs. Fairbaim never denied or questioied the validity of her deed, as long as she lived.
Mr. ustice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error to the Circuit Court
for the district of Kentucky.
The lessors of the plaintiff brought an action of ejectment, to recover a half-acre lot in the city of Eouisville, numbered on the new
plan of the city ninety-one. Richard Ferguson, Daviess, and others,
were made defendants. The jury found the defendants guilty, and
a judgment was entered against them. On the trial, exceptions
were taken to various rulings of the court, only one of which it is
material to consider.
The court instructed the jury, "that the deed of. conveyance, by
Thomas H. Fairbairn and wife, of the 12th of March, 1811, to the
defendant, Dr. Richard Fergusbn, whereof a copy was read in evidence by the plaintiffs, was not, in law, the deed.of the feme covert,
Maria E. Fairbaira; is not her deed of conveyance for any purpose
whatever; and passed from her to Dr. Ferguson no estate whatever
in the lot of land in controversy."
The plaintiffs below claimed as heirs at law of Maria E. Fiiirbairn.
The fairness of the purchase of the lot by Ferguson was not controverted, nor that he paid for it an adequate consideration. 'The lot
having descended to Maria E. Fairbairn, and her husband being
dead, her heirs claim the property, on the ground that the acknowledgment of the deed by their mother, she being a feme covert, was
defective. And so the court ruled in the above instruction.
The deed ws acknowledged on the 12th of March, 1811; the day
it bears date, by Elizabeth Henry, who signed it, and who had a
dower interest in thie lot, and by Fairbairn and 'wife; the latter being
examined separate aid apart from her husband, in due foim; before
the mayor of Baltimore, who. affixed his certificate and the seal of
the corporation to'the acknowledgment.
On the 20th of May, 1811, Warden Pope, .clerk of the County
Court of Jdfferso'n, in which Louisville is situated, certified that the
deed was received in his office; and it being duly certified and authenticated; he recorded the same.
By the Virginia act of 1776, adopted by Kentucky, 4 Lift. Laws
of Kentucky, 43.2, entitled "An act to enable persons living in other

644

SUPREME COURT.
Daviess et aL v. Fairbdirn et al.

countries to dispose of their estates in this commonwealth, with znore
ease and convenience," it was provided "that a person residing in
any other county, for passing any lands and tenements in this commonwealth, by deed,'shall acknowledge or prove the same beforel
the mayor or other chief magistrate of the city, town, or corporation,
wherein or near to which he resides. But where there was'no
mayor or other chief magistrate within the c6unty, then a certificate,
under the hands and seals of two justices or magistrates of the county, that such proof or acknowledgment.has been made before them,
is sufficiert. "Without an acknowledgment, the fee did not pas un-der this statute. And "where any person' making such conveyance
shall be a feme covert, her interest in any lands or tenements shall
not pass thereby, unless she shall personally acknowledge the same
before such mayor or other chief magistrate, or before two justices
or magistrates, as aforesaid." A privy examination is required, and
the same being -certified, the deed may be recorded- in the county
where the land lies. And such deed shall be effectual to pass all
the interest of the feme coveit.
The acknowledgment of the deed under consideration, in all re,spects, conforms to the requirements of the above act; and the important question is, whether, at the time of the acknowledgment, the
act was in force? If the act had not been fepealed, the deed is un;questionably valid.
The plaintiffs in error contend that the above statute was repealed
-bythe act of 1785y and also of 1796. The act of 1785 is entitled
"An act for regulating conveyances," in the 1st section of which it
is provided, "that no estate of inheritance, or freehold, or for a term
of more than five years, in lands or tenements, shall be conveyed
from one-to another, unless. the conveyance be declared by writing,
sealed and delivered; nor shall such conveyance be good against a
purchaser for valuable consideration, not having -notice thereof, unless acknowledged or proved before the General. Court, or before
the court of the- county, city, or corporation, in which the land is
conveyed,,or in the manner hereinafter directed," &c.
"When husband and wife- shall have sealed and delivered a writing, purporting to be a conveyance of any estate or interest, if she
appear in court, and being .examined privily and aparf from her
husband, by one of the judges thereof, &c.; or if before two justices
of the peace, of that county in which she dwells, who may be em-,
powered by commission, to be issued by the'clerk of the court,
heein the writing ought to be recorded," &c., shall be sufficient to
convey her estate.
In this act there'is no express repeal of the act of 1776, consequently -that act can only be repealed in so far as it may be repugnant to the subsequent act. They are both affirmative statutes, and
such parts of the prior statute'as may be. incorporated into the subsequent one, as consistent with' it, must be considered inforce. This

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

-.645.

Daviess et al' v. Fairbairn et al.

is a settled rule of construction, and applies, with .peculiar force,.to
these statutes. Their object was to prescribe certain modes by
which real property within the commonwealth should beconveye,
by residents and non-residents, and also byfemes covert, and it must
be admitted, that no other modes of conveyance than those whiih
are so-prescribed will be valid..- These forms have been adopted
for the security of real property, and the convenience of individuals;
hence we find in the statute books of all the states, numerous acts
regulating the signing, acknowledging, and recording of deeds.
If the act of 1785 be not repugnant in all its provisions to the act
of 1176, yet if the former clearly intended to prescribe the only
modes by which real estate should be conveyed, it repeals the prior
act. And this intention, it is said, is found in the act of 1785. To
some extent, this may be correct. Irk the first section of that act, it
is provided, that "no estate of inheritance in lands or tenements
shall be conveyed from one to another, unless the conveyance be declared by writing,'sealed and delivered." Now a deed, to be valid
as a conveyance, under this statute, must be in writing, sealed and
delivered. This is the common law definition of a deed. But there
are other requisites to make this conveyance valid against a purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice. The deed must
be acknowledged as the statute requires, and lodge4i with the clerk
for record. fhe conveyance as between the parties would be valid,
under this statute, without acknowledgment, but unless acknowledged and recorded, or lodged for record, would not be notice to
subsequent and ihnocent purchasers.
The acts under consideration provide specially the mode by which
the estate of a feme covert shall be conveyed. In the act of 1785,
her privy examination may be made in court, or by one of the
judges thereof, or she may be examined by two justices of the
peace of the-county where she resides. "who may be empowered
to do so by commission," &c.
By the act of 1776, the acknowledgment and' privy examination
of a feme covert were-required to be made before the mayor or other
chief magistrate, or before two justices Qr magistrates of the town
or place wherein she shall reside. The acknowledgment before two
justices is retained in the act of 1785, with this additional "requisite,
that the justices shall be commissioned, as provided, to perform this
duty. This necessarily repeals that part of the prior - act which
authorized the acknowledgment to be taken before two justices,
without being commissioned. The latter act is, in this regard, repugnant to the former. The provisions cannot stand tbgether, as the
latter ,act superadds an issential qualification of the justices not
required by the former. 'But the important question is, whether, as
the act of 1785 made no provision authorizing a mayor of a city to
take the acknowledgment of a feme covert, that rovision in the act
of 1776 is repealed by it. In this respect it is clear there is no

646

SUPREME COURT.
Daviess et -aL. v. Fairbairn et aL,

repugnan cy between the two acts,.. The two" provisions may.well
stand together, the latter as cumulative to the former.
Does a fair interpretation of the act of 1785 -uthorize thi-inference, that the legislature intended no conveyance by a feme ..-overt
'should be valid, unless acknowledged in the form prescribed by that*
-act? We think no such inference can be drawn. In.the first section of that act, in reference to'ordihary acknowledgments of conveyances, in order, when recorded, that they might operafe as notice
to subsequent purchasers, it is reqiired thA't .the acknowledgment
should be made as provided, "or in the manner heieinafter directed.'
The words here cited can have no bearing on the 'execufibn of a
conveyance by a feme covert.. In, a subsequent part of, tl sane section, provision is made for the execution--of-suchan instrument,
which is complete, without reference to any other part of the statute.
The above words, therefore, could only refer t6 the conveyances
spoken of in the first part of the section, and in order that they
might operate, when recorded, as notice.
Upon a careful comparison of these statutes, as regards the point
in controversy, we think there is no repeal of the act of 1776, by
the act of 1785. There is no express repeal; no repugnancy, as
regards the power 'of' the mayor of a cityto-take the acknowledgment of a feme covert; nor. on this point are there any words (f-the.
latter act which show an intention to make its provisions exclusive.
We are 'therefore brought to the. co*nclusion, looking only at these
statutii, that the latter -act, in this regard, may be. considered as
cumulative.
As having a strong and decided bearing on this view, We refer to
Wood v. The United States, 16 Peters, 362. 16-that case, the couilt
say, "1the questioti then arises whether the.:66th section of the act
of 1799, chap. 128, has been repealed,.or whether it remains in full
force. That it has hiot been expressly, or by direct terms, repealed,
is admitted; and the question resolves itself 'into the more narrow
inquiry, whether it has been-repealed by necessary iiplication. 'We
%ayby necessary implication, for-it is not sufficient io 'establish that
subsequent laws cover some or even all the cases provided for by it;
for they may be nerely affirmative, or cumulative, or auxiliary. But
there must be a positive repugnancy between the.provisions of the
new laws and those of the old; and even then the old law is repealed
by-implication 'Only pro tanto, to the extent of the repuagpancy"
We come now -to consider the act of 1796. The act of the 20th
of December, 1792, concerning the 'relinqiishment of.dover, in
the. 2d section., provides that d6wer may be relinquished before two
justices of the peace, where the parfies reside out of 'the common*ealth, and the cleik of the county is required. to-certify that the
persons taking the acknowledgment were justices, &c. This provision is repugnant to that of the act of 1785, which requires -a 'cormission to be issued to such justices.

-

-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Daviess et al. v. Fairbairn er al.

647

By the act of the 17th .of December, 1795, two j riohs*were
authorized to be appointed by joint ballot of the legislature, to
revise the laws in force, &c. These persons, having been so appointed, reported the act of 1796, which is entitled "An act to
reduce into one the several acts, or parts of acts, for regulating conveyances." In this act are includi.led parts of the act of 1776, and
nearly the whole of the. act of 1785. It was passed the 19th of
December, 1796, and, with all other acts reported'at the same
tiine, was. adopted by a general act, referring to the various acts,
and providing that "1so m uch of every act or acts before recited, as
comes within the purview of this act, shall be and the same is
hereby repealed from and aier the 1st day of January, 1797,"1 on
which. day the above act took effect.
That part of the act of 1776, authorizing the mayor of a city to
take the acknowledgment of a feme covert, is not included in the
act of 1796; nor were certain- 1rovisions of the act of 1748, "1for
settling the titles and bounds of lands," &c., included, some parts'
of which have since been recognised by the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky, as in force.
" Great reliance is placed by thecpunsel for the defendants in error,
in the case of Hynes's Representatives v. Campbell, 6 Monr..286. In
that case, the complainants prayed a rescision of the contract for the
conveyance of a certain tract of land, on the ground of a defect of
title.; and the court held, that they were not bound to accept the
deed for the land, tendered by the defendant, as some of the conveyances under which he claimed were not acknowledged and recorded, as the law required. The deeds thus objected to "were
acknowledged before two justices of the peace bf Dunwiddie county;
Virginia, who certified simply that the grantor acknowledged the
same before them, as the law required," without adding that the
grantor "also subscribed the same in their presence." This pro-.
ceeding was under the act of 1792, which had been construed to
require a certificate of the justices that the deed had been subscribed
in their presence, in regard to deeds executed within the state. And
the court say, they turned their, attention to the act of 1776, "and
they find that it regulates only conveyances made out of the state,
and that it provides for acknowledgment alone, before two justices of
the peace, and says not a word about subscribing, and if that act is
in force in this respect, it will exactly embrace the case in question."
And they held that the above act was virtually repealed by the act
of 1785, which requires that the two justices taking the acknowledgment should be commissioned to do so. This view of the court, as
regards the acknowledgments of the deeds then before them, was
undoubtedly correct. It is the construction which we have before
given to this part of the act of 1785. The attention of the court was
not drawn to any other point than the one before them. They did
not say that that part of the act of 1776 which regulates the acknow-

648

SUPREME COURT.
Daviess et a]. v. Fairbairn et aI.

ledgment by a feme covert, which is wholly different from the above,
was- repealed.- It isitrue their languae is general, but their meaning must be limited to the point under consideration. , This decision,
therefore, cannot be considered as having a bearing on the point now
before us.
In the case of Prewet v. Graves et al., 5 J. J. Marshall, 120, the
court say, that-the 5th section of the act of 1748 had been repealed
by subsequent and repugnant enactments. In Miller et al. v. Herishaw & Co., 4 Dana, 323, they say, in reference to the act of 1776,
and to the decision of 'Hynes's Representatives v. Campbdll, above
cited, that the act of-1776 "is n~where repealed by express vords,
but only by construction, in consequence of the inconsistency of its
provisions with those of subsequent statutes; and as none of the
subsequent statutes relate to the authentication of deeds of personalty, out of the state, except those which reduce th number of witnesses from three to two, there can be no inconsistency, and therefore no constructive repeal of so much of this statute as relates to
deeds of personalty, except as to the number of witnesses."
In McGowen v. Hay, 5 Litt. 244, the court held the act of 1748
was in force in Kentucky, in regard to the acknowledgment and recording of mortgages and deeds of trust. By the act of 1796, a
deed, executed out of the commonwealth for lands within it, was
required to be recorded in eight months. The act ot-1785, which
preceded it, required such deed to be recorded in eighteen months;
and in Taylor v. Shields, 5 Litt. 297, the question was, whether the
latter of these acts, in this respect, had repealed the former; and the
court say, " we should hesitate much to give such effect to the latter
statute." "Virtual repeals are not favoured by courts. A body of
acts ought to be held as one act, so far as they do not conflict with
each other. Here the same restriction to the ' manner prescribed
by law,' existed before the passage of our act, as well as afterwards;
and if, intranscribing the Virginia Code into ours, any part shall be
adjudged to be repealed, barey by putting in the date of transcribing
as the date of the law-, and because the provision, so transcribed,
shall apparently conflict with any former part not so transcribed, it
.maybe of serious- consequence to the community." "(We incline,"
the court say, to the opinion, "that the clause in our statute, (of 1796,)
'in the manner prescribed by law,' meant to retain, and was intended
to retain, former provisions, with regard to deeds entire ;" and they
held, that the recording of the deed within eighteen months, under the
act of 1785, was sufficient.
That part of the act of 1785, which regulated the time of recording deeds, executed without the commonwealth, was not copied into
the act of 1796, and yet the court held that the latter act, in this
respect, did not repeal the former.
In -Elliott et al. v. Piersoll et al., 1 Peters, 339,.this court say,
the Virginia statute of 1748 "was adopted in Kentucky, at her

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

649

Daviess et aL v. Fairbairn et a).

separation from Virginia, and is understood never to have been
repealed."
It does not appear that the question, as to the validity of the acknowledgment of a deed before, the mayor of a city, by a feme covert, ufider the act of 1776, since that of 1785 has been enacted,
has ever been decided. Some general expressions, as above stated,
have been used by the Court of Appeals, in regard to the repeal'of
the former idt by the latter, but those expressions did not relate to
the above question. And it may be again observed, that those remarks by the Court of Appeals can only be held to apply to the
-matter then before them; and that a more extended application of
'them would be inconsistent with the views taken by-the same court,
in the other cases cited. If the provision in the act of 1785, requiring a deed -executed'out of the state to be recorded in eighteen
months, is not repealed by the act of 1796, requiring such deed to be
recorded in eight months, is the act of 1776, authorizing the acknowledgment of a deed before a mayor, by a feme c6vert, repealed by subsequent acts? -None of those acts repeal, in terms, the above provision
in the act of 1776, and they contain no repugnant provision. Consequently, the first act stands unrepealed. The different -acts on the
same subject, in the language of the Court of Appeals, must be
'.'considered as one act." In this view, the provision in question
stands consistently -with all the subsequent statutes; and on this
ground we feel authorized to say, that the acknowledgment of the
deed before us is valid, under the act of 1776, and that it conveyed
'to Ferguson, the grantee, a good title in fee-simple. The clause of
the act of 1796, "repealing- so much of the acts referred to as come
within the purview of that0act,' extends no*further than the repugnancy of the act of 1796 to the provisions of the acts named.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuet Court is reversed, at
the costs of the defendants, and the cause be remahded, &c.

VOL. I.-82

