"574

. SUPREME

0OURT.

AUGUSTUS AND EDWARD BONNArEE, PARTNE S UNDER TIM NAME AND
STYLE OF BONNAFEE &. CO., PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. IRA E. W LILIANS,, CHARLES S. SPANN AND B. H. Coox. D-alENDANTS IN ERROR.
The Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction where a promissory
note is made by a citizen of one state payable to another citizen of the same
giate or bearer, and the party bringing the suit is a citizen of a different state;
although upon the face of the note it was expressed to be for the use of persons residing in'the state in which the maker and payee lived.
Where the citizenship of the parties gives jurisdiction, and the legal right to
sue is in the plaintiff, the court witl not inquirewinto the residence of those
who may have an equitable interest in the claim. -

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, froni the Circuit"

Court of the United States for the southern district of MiSsis8tppi.
The plaintiffs in error were citizens of tlie'state of New York; the
defendants in error, of Mississippi.
The'defendauO in error executea four joint and several promis1'1g to pay to Cowles Mead or bearer, for the use
Sory notes, pr
t anking Company of Hinds county, the sums of
of the Real
money therein mentioned;
In 1841, the plaintiffs brought suit upon these notes, alleging'themselves to be the lawful bearers thereof.
The defendhnts demurred upon the two f0llowing grounds:
"1. The plaintiffs. cannot maijtain the action, beause, by their
own showing, the defendants who are sued are also i part of the
persont for whose use the suit is commenced. "
"2. The court can have no jurisdiction of this case, because,
although it is true, the nominal plaintiffs are the bearers of the paper
'sued on, and citizens of a state other than Mississippi, yet the usees,
or those for whosb benefit the suit is brought, for any thin& which,
appears in the declaration, are citizens of the state of Mississippi;
and there are all other causes," &c.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, from which decision
a writ of error brought the case to 4his court.
The cause was argued for- the plaintiffs in error,.byMr, Walker,
as follows:
The first cause of demurrer was as follows: 11 The defendants
wh6 are sued are also a part of the persons for whose use the suit
is brought."
Now, the suit is brought in the name of Bonnafee & Co. alone,
and not for the use of any one, aid therefore the demurrer, cannot
be sustained on this ground. The note was payable to "Cowles
Meade, or bearer, for the use of the Real Estate Banking Company
of Hinds county," and it was assigned by delivery, by Cowles
Meade, to the plaintiffs, -*ho, throughout every count bf the decla-ration, are described a the lawful bearers of the note, and in whose

JANUARY TERM, t84r.

575

Bonnafee v. Williams et al.

name alone the suit is brought. It is true, the note was payable to
Cowles Meade, for the use of the Real Estate Banking Compan,
and that Cowles Meade was oie of that' company; but this cofd
constitute no objection to the jurisdiction, because,.before a court
6f common law, this company had no rights whatever. They were
unincorporated, and, therefore,'could not sue at law in the name
assumed by them; and even if they could, no right of action would
accrue to them, where 1he note, as in this-base, was not payable to
them, but to Cowles Meade, or bearer, in whonr alone, or thie bearer,
the sole legal title was .vested. The.question, therefore, intended
to be raised by the demurrer,*does not apply to .this case. The
legal title is vested in any bearer, and the fact that the bearer derived title by delivery, from Cowles Meade, can have no injurious
effect upon the title of the plaintiffs.
But it is said that Cowles Meade, to wh6m, or bearer, the note
is payable, appears to be one of the same unincoryorated banking
company for whose use the note is given. But if,Cowle Meade
delivered the note to the plaintiffs, and they, as is the *fact,are not
members of the same banking company, still the question does not
ari e, that one partner cannot sue another partner at law; for the"
plaintiffs aid defendants were not partners, arid the use for which
the note was given does not affect -the legal rights of the .parties.
The legal intendment is, afd such is the fact, that the plaintiffs,.
with the consent- of the banking company, were 'the purchasers of
the note in question, and 'brought the suit for their own use alone..
But were it otherwise, could not Cowles Meade maintain a suit at
law on such a note as this of the defendants, even if Meade and the-defendants were memb'ers of the. same banking company?' Now,
the law is clearly settled that a partnership can sue upon a note
given by Lne of the partners to another, even although it be for the.
use of the firm. Van Ness v. Forrest, 8 Cranch, 30. In that case, the person to whom the note was given was a mere
trustee for the-firm; yet the court maintained the action against one
of the partners. The cases in which' pailtners cannot sue each other,.
on account ot -transactions growing out of the pjartnership, or where
the firm cannot sue a partner, are cases of u.nascertained balances,
or where the partnership transacti6n has' not been separated by a
note or express promise. In such cases a court of law cannot severthe join contract or liabiites, but ,this 'may be done by the parties.
themtselves. Neale v. Tuston, 4 Bing. 149; Coffee v. Brian, 3 Bing.
54; Gibson v. Moore, 3 New Hamip. 527; Nevins v. Townsend,.
6 Conn. 5; Story on Partnership, 241, 527, 320; Collyer on Part-'
nerihip, 392, 504, 91; 148, 152, 147, 165 Wright v. Hunter,.
1 East, 30 ; Brierly v. Cripps, 7 Carr. and Payne, 709; Smith v.
Barrow, 2 T. R: 476; Simpson v. Rochman, 7' Bing. 617; Yenning v. Leckie, 13 East, 7 ;- Gale v. Leckie, 2 Starlde, 96.
Where a note is payable-to A,.for the use of B, the legal .title i.'

.676,

SUPREME dOURT.
Bonnafee v. Williams et al.

in A, and he is the party.to transfer it, to receive payment, and to
sue upon it.. 3 ;Kent's Com. 89;' 1 Selwyn's N. P.292; Chitty
on'Bills,-180, 226, 428, 566; Bely on Bills" 76, 115; Chaplin v.
Canada, 8 Conn. 286'; Binney v. Phumpley-5 Vermont, 500.
Atlaw, :the fi-ustde hqs thewhole title and inteiest. Bank of the
Unifed States t.Devaux, 5 Cranch , 91; Irving v. Lowry, 14 Peters,
300; 'Bauerman v. RBodenus, 7 T-. R. 663; Wake v. Tinkler, 16 East,
36; Tucker v. Tucker, 4 B. & Adol. 745; Willis' Trusties, 72,
and N...E. 73, 83, 86, 87; Lewin on Trustees, 267, 247. 481.
The express purpose of the trust was, to. give Meade the- legal
'tile, and enable him.to sue at law.
Buteven.if:Meade could not- sue,.the bearer could; and Meade
,could -receive payment, or iransfer by deliveryz" And having done
so, he is presumed'to have received full value from the plaintiffs.
1 Selw. N. P.292, citiog Carth. 5;- 2 Vent. 307; Skinner, 204.
The 4aking.udmpany are not parties -plaintiffs or defendants, on
the record, nor is -the suit brought' for their use, nor have they in
'fact any intereot in-the ease, And. in'the language of the Supreijhe
Court of the United States-- 'It may-be laid down as a rule, we think,.which admits of no'
exception, that inall 6ass where jurisdiction depends on the party,
i isthe prtynamed',onthe record." Governor ofGeoigia v.-Afadrays,*1 Peters, 122.
. "Jurisdiition is neither given nor ousted by the relative situationO the pdiies concerned in Intrest- but 'by'the relative situation-of
,the -priesname& on the record." .Osbom v. Bank United States,'
*.Wheat. 738.
A' trdst e"may sue "in the federal courts without reference to. the
domicl ot his cestti qua trust.. Irvin v.'Lowry, 14 Peters,Q298;
Bank United'States,.v, Devaux, 4:Crmch;'308; Corporation of
Washington v. Young, 10 Wheat. 4;, Story, Constitution, 566 ;-Sergeant,.C.L "13 114; 1 Kent's CofiL'348, 349.
These autherities are equally conclusive aginst the second cause
assigned in the demurrer, that f"those for whose benefit the suit is
brougt' grmcitizens of Mississippi."
No.-other cause of demurrer is assigne&
rt is-clear that juri.diction is not divtstedion the.groundthit
Meade -was a citizen of Mississippi, bepaiuse, the note was payable
n
i' or bearer," and, therefore, n.dt within the provisions of the'
to him
11-th section of the Judiciary'Act of 1789. Bullard v. Bell,-.! MaAnd in Bank of-Kentucky v. Witar et al., 2 Peters,
-son, 2bi.
326, the codrt say: "The other pdint has relation 6o the form of
.the bills which are made- payable to individuals or bearer, concern.ing hich individua4lsthere is no averment of citizenship, and which,
itherefote, may have been payable in-the first instance to parties not
-competent to sue' in the courts of the United States. Bur this .Js
oa question which has been. considered and disposed of in our'
-

JANUARY TERM; 184.

677

Bonnafee v. Williams et al.

previous decisions. This court has uniformly held that a note payable to bearer is payable to anybody, and not affected-by the disabilities of the nominal'payee."
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opbion of the court.
This is a writ of error from the southern district of Mississipmi.
The plaintiffs brought their action on fou~r promissory notes, payable at diflerent times, for different sums ana bearing different dates,
except two, which were dated the 23d January, 1839. In each of
the notes the defendants promised, or either of them, to pay to
use of the Real Estate Bankifig
Cowles Meade; or bearer, forat the
their lanking house in Clinton, the
Company of Hinds ountyr
sum named, with6ut.clefalcation, for value received.
The defendants demurred .to-ltdeclaration, and assigned the following causes of:demurrer:
, 1. " The plaiiiffi camot maintain the action, because, ty their
own showing, the defendants who. are sued are- also a part of the
persons for whosi u~e the suitis commenced."
2. "The court can have no jurisdiction of this case, bcause,
although it is true, the nominal plaifitifi are the bearers of the paper
sued on, and citizens of-a state other th'an Mississippi, yet, those for
whose benefit suit is brought, for any thing, which appears in the
declaration, are citizens of the state of Mississppi."
The notes in question passed by delivery, and the plaintiffs, as
bearen, have a-right to sue in their own names, as the promise to
pay is made to bearer. Th plaintiffs alleg that they are citizens
of New York, and, consequently, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction
of the case. 'Where the citizenship of 'the parties give jurisdiction,
and the legal right to sue isih tie plaintiff, the court will not inquire
into the residence of those who may have an equitable interest in
the claim. They'-e not necessary parties on the record, A perso having the legal-ight may sue,, at law, in the federal courts,
without reference to.the citizensbhp of those who mayhave the equi-table interest. Irvine.v. Lowry, 14 Peters, 298. The judgment
of the Circuit Court, which sustained the demurrer, i reversed;
and the cause is remaided fQr further proceedings.

VoL. I.-73

