JANUARY TERM 1845.

JOSEPH CHAZIRrS, EXECuTOit oF BENrXAmI

CHAIES, .DECEASED, AN4D PE-

TER

MIRANDA AND GAD HUImPHREYS, APPEJ.LANTS, v. THE UNITED
STATES.

Where this court has affirmed the title to lands in Florida, and referred, in its
decree, to a particular survey, it would not be proper. for the couit below to
open the case' for a re-hearing, for the purpose of adopting"another survey.
The court below can only execute the mandate of this court. It has no authority to disturb the decree, and-can only settle what remains to be done.

Tms was an appeal fronm the Superior Court f East Florida, and
a sequel to the case reported in 10 Peters; 308.
The appellants filed in the court below the following petition:
"To the Honourable Isaac H. Bronson, judge of the .Superior
Court in and for the eastern district of Florida.
"The petition of Joseph Chaires, of the said territory,, executor
of the.last will and testament of Benjamin Chaires, late of the same
territory, but now deceased, Peter Miranda; and Gad Humphreys,
respectfully showeth:
" That the said Benjamin Chaires, Peter Miranda, and. Gad Humphreys; heretofore, to wit, on the 11th day of May, which was in
the .year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine,
filed their petition in the office of the clerk of this honourable court
in terms of an act of Congres$ of the United. States, entitled an act.
supplementary to the several'acts providingfor the settlement and
confirmation of privaite land claims in Florida, approved on. the 23d
of May, in the year one thousand uight htlndred and twenty-eight,
praying for the confirmation of certain claims t6 lands therein specified, and founded on a title made and granted by his excellency
Don Jose Coppinger, lieutenant-colonel of the royal armies of Spain,
civil and military governor of the territory of Florida, then subject
and belonging to his Catholic Majesty, the King of Spain, and chief
of the royal exchequer of the city of St. Augustine, Florida, to Js6
de la, Maza Arredondo.
"That the attorney of the United States in. and for said district,
duly appearedj and answered the said petition; and thereupon such
proceedings were had in the said court, that afteiwards, on the 24th
day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hun-.
dred
and thirty-four; a.decree wasdidrendered
therein
in favour
and"order,
adjudge,of the
thereupon
petitioners; and the said court
the clain of the said petitioner was valid, and that, i
th
decreet
accordance with the laws and customs of Spain,.and under and by

virtue
of the treaty of amity, settlement, and limits,ofbetween
the
the United
United States and Spain, ratified by the President
States on the 22d day of February, ne thousand eight hundred
aid twenty-one, and under and by virtue of the laws of nations and
adof the United" States the said claim was thereby
-confirmed,

612

SUPREME COURT.
Chaires et al. to..he United'States.

judged, and decreed, unto the said claimant, to the extent, for the
number of acres, .and at the place specified in the gr.anf for the said
land, to Jos&.de la Maza Arredbndo; and as in the certificate and
plat of the same, made by- Andres Burgevin, dated the 14th of September, in the year. of our Lord one thousand eight hundred- and
nineteen, and. fully in the said cause is get forth, that is to say"-A piece of.land, which contains twenty thousand acres, situated
on both margins of a creek, known as Alligator creek, said land
commencing a little above the head of said creek, and embracing
an Indian town, distant about eighty miles- from the port of Buena
Vista; and about forty miles to the north-west of Payne's Town-its
first line running n6rth -twenty degrees west, three hundred and
•fifty-sven chains, -begins at a pine marked X, and ends at another
marked _; the second line running south seventy degrees west,
five hundred'and 'sixty chains, and ending at a stake; the third line
running south twenty degrees east, three hundred and fifty-seven
chains, and ending at a pine marked II ; and the fourth'line running
north seventy degrees east, five hundred and sixty chains.
"That an appeal was taken from the decree, so rendered -in this
honourable court, to the Supreme Court of the United States, by the
attorney of the said United States, -inand for the said territory, and
such proceedings were thereupon had in the said Supreme Court,
; in the year of our Lord
that afterwards, on the
day -of
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six, the decree of this honourable court was affirmed; and.thereupon the mandate of the-said
Supreme Court was awarded, directifig the same to be carried into
-effect.

",And your petitioner further shows to your honour, that upon
application to the proper officer of the United-States, to carry the
said depree into effect, by-admeasuring to your petitioner the lands
specified in-the grant, it appears that there is error in rendering the
said decree, and that the same requires iobe reforined, in this"That in and by the decree of this honourable court, hereinbefore alleged and affirmed, in manner hereinbefore set forth by the
Supreme Court, your petitioher's claimn was confirmed, adjudged,
and decreed to be valid ' to the eitent, -for, the number. of acres,
and at the place a'sin the grant to the said-lid to Jos6 de la Maza
is-added in the said decree, ' and as in the cerArredondo,' bht it.
tificate and plat-of survey-of -the same, made by Don Andres Burgevin, and dated the-14th Septehber, one thousand eight hundred
and nineteen, and filed herein, is set forth, to wit,' &c., &c. ; and
the said decree thereafter proceeds to recite the metes and bounds
as specified and set forth in the survey made by the said Don Andres Burgevin.
"That the land granted to Jos6 de ]a Maza Arredondoi'and, in
the decree before referred to, confirmed arid adjudged to your petitioner, is described in the royal grant or title to property, also before

JAN.UARY TERM, 184.

613

Chaires et al. v. The United States.

herein referred to, to consist of 'twenty thousand acres of land,
with title of absolute property, of those known as Alachua, about
eighty miles distant from this city (of St. Augustie) at a placeknown as "Big Hammock," about twenty miles from the river
Lawanee westward, about sixty miles from St. John's.' While the
land specified in the survey of Don Andres Burgevin is described
as follows: Itwenty thousaud acres of land, situated on both margins of a creek known as Alligator creek. Said land condmences a*
little above the head of said- creek, and embraces an Indian town,
distant about eighty miles from the .post at Buena Vista, and about
forty to the porth-west of Pa ne's town, &c., &c.'
"1That the land specified in the said survey does not conform to,
or correspond with, the land described in the said grant, and that
the surveyor-general of. the United States has-therefore been- unable
to execute the decree of this lionourable courtraffirmed as aforesaid
by the Supreme Court of the United States, and to. admeasure to
your petitioner the land adjudged to him by the said decree.
"That forasmuch as the land specified in the said grant to Jos6
de la Maza Arredondo. is, by the decree aforesaid, adjudged to your
petitioner, ' to the extent, for the number of a&res, and at the place,
as in the grant for said land,' your petitioner is entitled to have the
same admeasured to him according to the terms of the said grant,
and the description therein contained; and that if the said survey
of Don Andres Burgevin conflcts with the said grant, the said survey must yield to, and be controlled by, the terms of the grant.
"Your petitigner fiirther shows to your honour, that the said -land
was duly surveyed and.admeasured, and a plat thereof made and
returned to this honourable court, and given in evidence in said
cause, by Joshua A. Coffee, a competent and qualified surveyor,
but that the same was omitted in the transcript of the record sent to
the Supreme Court of the United- States, although the fact of its
having been given in evidence appears in the said transcript, a copy
of which said survey is hereunto annexed..
"1Your petitioner further shows to yourhonour, that the surveyorgeneral of the United States hath refused to execute the said decree.
by admeasuring for your petitioner the land thereby confirmed and
adjudged to him, and that, upon application to .the commissioner
of the General Land-office, he hath in like manner refused so to do,
until the said decre6 shall have been reformed by the, competent

authority.

"ut
Wherefore, your petitioner prays this honourable court, the premises aforesaid being considered, and due proof thereof being made,
that "the said decree may be reformed, and to that end, that a
rehearing of the said cause in thig .behalf may be granted; that the
title of your petitioner to the twenty thousand acres of land, specified
in the grant to Jos6 de la Maza Arredondo may be adjudged to your
petitioner according to the terms and specifications'of the said grant,
-'3F

014

SUPREME C.O'URT.
-Chires et aL v. The United States.

-

and the survey of the said Joshua A. Coffee, a copy whereof is
hereunto filed; or according to a survey to be made under the order
of this court, by the surveyor-general of 'the territory of Florida, in
conformity to the description of the 4aid land in the said grant
specified and set forth, to be returned int6 thd registry of this honourable court; and'that he may have such'other and further relief,
as in the wisdlom of this honotrable court shall seem meet and right
in the remises; and your petitioner; &c., &c., &c.,
In une, 1844, the court, after hearing an argument decided that
the-petition for rehearing could not be entertained, anA ordered it to
,be dismissed.
From this decree the petitioners appealed to this court.,
.Berrien, for the appellants.
N'elson, (attorney-general,) for the United States.
Berrien, after stating the case, id: this petition'was dismissed
by the Dis'trict Court, on the ground that it had not been'filed in time.
The-relief sought by the petitioner is therefore resisted solely on
the gouhd 'that 'too much time has elapsed since he decree wasrendered, to' entitle'them to it.
They have the decree of this court affirming their title to twenty
'thousand acres of land, specified',in their grant, and at the place
therein specified.
The ministerial officer of the government refuses to admeasure the
land so awarded to them, according to the terms of the grant; becaue the decree also'refers to en inconsistent description contained
inthe survey of Burgeyin.
And an application to have the decree reformed, according to'the
clear and manifest fitent of the edurt, is resisted on the ground of time.
S*This objection'-is sustained by, a refezende to the rules established
,in the English courts of chancery, and recogised here in cases to
which they apply, in relation to applichtions ,for a rehearing, and
bills of revivor.
And to the argument from analogy, drawn'from the limitation of
time' in our statute, "withinwhich appeals may be entered, and writs
'of error sued out.
As' to the first objection: it is submitted that the rules which
regulate the proceedings of courts of chancery, in the exercise of
their general jurisdiction over cases, between individual parties, are
not applicable to this proceeding.
This case- was brought before the court below, and' subsequently
-transferredto this 'court, hot by- an appeal to the general .-chancery
-jurisdiction of either, but under the special authority given to these
courts by'the act of 18.28, providing for the settlement and c-onfirmation of prvate land claims in Fl6ridp, and those 'other acts.to
whichit refers.'
,The proceeding was by petition; which was required to be coii-

JANUARY
Chaires etal.

TERM, 1845.

615

v. The United&States.

ducted according to the -rules of a court of equity; and certain limitations of time were prescribed, within which~petitions were -to be
-filed, and appeals to be entered.
But the court,was required to settle and determine the validity of
the title, by a final decree, and the successful claimant was entitled
to a copy of the decree, and the admeasuiement by the surveyorgeneral of the land awarded, with a certificate of such admeasurement, for the purpose of obtaining a patent from the commissioner
of the General Land-office.
No time is specified within which the duties of these. officers are
to be respectively performed.
But 'in the case of a successfi claimant, their acts constitute part
of the res gesta. They are part of the proceeding;- and.the District
court must, in such case, retain possession of the cause, until the
mandate of this court is carried into execution.
Its intervention may, in various ways,.be necessary to direct, or
speed the action of the ministerial officers of the United States,
Neither the enrolment of .the decree in this court, nor of the mandate in the court below, can conclude the cause, and fix a period
from which the time for filing a petition for a rehearing, or bill of
revivor, is to run.
The case remains open, always liable to be.acted oii by the court
below, until the mandate is executed.
No time is prescribed by the act, within which the duties of the
surveyor-general are to be performed. The nature of these duties
forbade it. Itwas to survey wild lands in trackless forests.
In point of-fact, the decision of the surveyo.r-general, and of the
commissioner of the General Land-office, that this decree, in its
present form, could not be executed, was only obtained immediately
before the application to the court below.
If they erred in that decision, had not thd District Court power,
in the exercise of its authority, to carry the mandate of this court
into execution to correct that error, and to require the survey to be
made according to its interpretation of the decree'? That was one.
of the prayers of the petitioners.
No application could be made here. The case had passed from
this court with its mandate.
It remained with the court below to superintend the execution of
the mandate; and must therefore have remained open in that court.
That whi6h is here contended is, that neither the time at which
the decree is pronounced,.in this court, nor that when tke mandate
is filed in 'the court below, can be considered as the starting point,.
from which the limitation applicable to petitions for rehearing, and
bills of revivor, is to be computed.
This seems to result inevitably from the mode of proceeding.
The decree of this court is spoken of. But the proceeding here
is but an affirmance of the decree of the court below. ,

616

SUPREME COURT.
Chaires, et al. v. The United States.

The mandate is the certificate of that affirmance, and the case is
remanded to the DistrictiCourt for "¢such further proceedings," as.
acc6rding to right and justice, and the laws of the United States,
ought to be had. It is then necessarily open in that court.
It may do whatever " right and justice," and " the laws of the
United States," require to be done.
Here it is obvious that this application is.founded on such matter.
The impossibility of reconciling the different paits .of this decree,
so as to give it effect, could only be ascertained (from the vagueness
of. this, as of al-ofner Spanish grants,) by the experimental surveys
of the United States officer.
This suggestion withdraws the case at -bar from the authority of
that of Thomas and Brockenborough, and of the rules of the English
chancery.
Repeated experimental surveys were necessary, for the purpose
of ascertaining whether the lines of surveys lying in the supposed
vicinity of those specified in this grant would correspond with those
of the survey referred to in the decree. I was only when this had
been done, that the impossibility of carrying this decree int6'effect,
without abandoning the lines of the survey of Burgevin, and resorting to those in the grant, and the survey of Coffee, could be ascertained.
No laches can be imputed to the petitioners, because the time
which has since elapsed is not within any legal or equitable limitation.
The ground upon which, however, it is apprehended that this case
Ought to be put is, that this case was still open in.the tourt 'below
for the purpose of this petition.
The petitioners had a final decree in their favour, as ascertaining
their title to twenty thousand acres.
As they were required to do, they applied to the surveyor to admeasure their land to them.
This, after repeated efforts, in a wild country, he failed to do, alleging certain errors in the decree.
When 'this was ascertained, application was made to the court below, so to reform the decree as 'to give the petitioners the benefit of
it in some form.
Thiis was refused, solely on the ground that such petition could
not now be received.
If, therefore, this cause is open for any. purpoge, in the District
Court, as we apprehend all such cases must be, while the surveyor
is engaged in making the survey, in 6bediehce to the mandate; if
that court could have granted relief irk any form, upon p~titibn, to
the appellants, then we suppose that its judgment must be reversed,
as the petition contains a prayer for geneal relief.
.Nelson's argument was this:
This is an appeal from the decision of the Siperior Cowt of the

JANUARY TERM, 1845
Chaires et-al. v. The Uni.ted States.

617

district of East Florida, rendered on a petition exhibited in said
court by the appellants praying for certain relief, and which was
dismissed by said court. The error alleged is, that the decree of
dismissal was improvidently passed.
'The petition is spread upon the record, and need not be repeated
here.
It is sufficient to state, that it seeks to reform a decree of the court
to which it was presented, passed on the 24th day-of November,
1834, and which wis, at the January term, 1836, of this court, upon
an appeal prosecuted by the United States, affirmed. 10 Peters,
308.
..The object sought to be effectuated is to make the decree availa.
,ble for other lands than those covered by it, under an allegation that
the recitals in'said decree are erroneous, and this it is proposed to
do by the instrumentality of the petition set out'in the record.
The appellee maintains that the court below, in dismissing the petition, committed no error, and that the same ought not to have been
entertained by'it, because of the lapse of time from the rendition of
the decree proposed to be reformed, to the exhibition of the petition
in this case.
The proceedings in the court of Florida were had in pursuance of
the provisions of the act of Congress of the 23d of MaF, 1828, entitled "Ant- act supplementary to the several acts providing for the settlement and confirmation of private land-claims in Florida," the 6th
section of which provides, that " all claims, &c., shall be received
and adjudicated by the judge of the Superior Court in which the
land lies, upon the petition of the claimant, according to the forms,
rules, regulations, conditi6ns, restrictions, and limitations, prescribed.
to the district judge, and claimants in the state of Missouri, by act
of Congress, approved May .26th, 1824, entitled ' An act enabling
the claimants to lands, within the limits of the state of Missouri and"
territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity of
their clainis.'
The 2d section of the act last referred to declares, "that every
petition, which shall be presented, under the provisions of this act,
sha'U be conducted according to the rules of a court of equity."
The question then to be decided is, in the view entertained by the
appellees, whether, according.to those rules, the i5etition for a rehearing, filed in this case, was in time to 'justfy the court below in
opening the original decree?
This was passed 6n the 24th day ot November, 1834, and was
affirmed in this court in January, 1836, and the present petition was
filed on the 21st day of May, 1844.
A rehearing will not be granted, if once the decree has been enrolled, even if otly one of several defendants has caused the enrolment. 1 Schoales & Lefroy, 234.
'Whatever may be the capacity of a bill of revivor or review, to
VoL. IU.-78
3F2

618-

SIPREM,
Chaires et'&I.'. Th

COURT.
Unitef&St-atds.

oper-a decree thus eirolled; a petition for a rehearing is incompetent
Bennt . Veffr,2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 305,-3 Ch.
to such an, nd i
Rep. 94.
But in this case, the lapse of time, in(analogy'to. the principles of
law applicable to limitations) is a bar to any relief undef this petition, if,
not, indeed, under any form of proceeding. 10 Wheat. 146;
8 Peters, 123.
The 22d stction of the Judiciary Act of. September 24, 1'780,
limits Writs-of error and appeal-to -five-yeari. 1 Story's Laws, 60;
2 Ibid. 9,05, 906, sect. 5; McClung v. Silliman,. Wheat: 598.
Appeals in cases arising under the act of 1828- are 'overned by
the 7th and 9th sections thereof.
_ And the 12th.secti6n provides, that claims iot brought oryprosecuted to final decision within t3o years shall be barred.
Besides, in this'-case, a mandate had been sent down from the Supreme Court to the Superior Court of Florida; and after a mandate.
no rehearing will be granted. Sibbald v. The United States, 12 Peters, 492, and authorities there cited.
It is a mistake to sulpose, that the object of this petition was to
operate upon a ministerial officer, the surveyor-general, in the exe-.
cution of the decree of the court ; its purpose was to reform the detree itself, and to assert, substantially, a new claim. This, it is respectfully insisted, it is not competent for the appellants to-do in the
form they have adopted.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion -ofthe court.
On the facts presented, one consideration is whether the petition
was dismissed for a proper reason. The petition was moved on by
the claimant's counsel-and resisted on the ground that it had not
been filed within the time allowed by law, and the rulesIof the court.-:
and it is insisted it was dismissed for this reason, which is insufficient; as the-bar of five years cannot be interposed under the circumstances. If this had been the reason given, it would be imma'terial, if the order was proper for other reasons. The 32d section
of the Judiciary Act prescribes the duty of this court in such cases,
and directs it to prodeed and give judgment according to the right
of the cause, and matter inlaw, without regard .to any imperfections
in the judgment.
.But we do not apprehend any imperfection to exiit; the court
says-" Itis considered that a petition for a reheaing cannot now
be entertained by this court, in this cause :" And why not? In
1829, a proceeding was instituted in the Superior Court of.EastFlorida by the claimants for the c6nfirmation of a claim for twenty thousand acres of land granted to Arredondo: In 1830 that court declared
the titie valid, on the face of the title-papers ; this fact existing, the
next presented for ascertainment was the sufficiency of the description
as to the general locality of the land granted. B3ut the duties of the.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

619

Ohaires et al. v. The United States.

court did not end here; by the 2d section of the act of 1824 it was
not only given full power and authority to hear and determine all
questions arising in the "causerelative to the validity of the title, and
the descriptive identity'of location on the face of the title; but thirdly to settle the precise boundaries of the land on the ground; founding its decree on an existing survey, if a proper one was produced,
and if not, to let -the party proceed according to the 6th section of the
act. On the face of the- title no material difficulty seems to have
arisen; but to identify the land called for was most difficult, and probably impossible: If the grant had been unaided by a survey,'it
cannot well be perceived how"it could have escaped from the principles on which were rejected the claims of Forbes, Buyck, and Joseph Delespine, (found in 15 Peters,) and of Miranda, (in 16 Peters.)
To avoid doing so, the land was decreed by metes and line-marks,
founded on a survey (purporting to have been made for the land
granted) by Don Andres Burgevin on thel14th of September, 1819.
This survey, it is contended, is fqr land lying in a different locality
from that referred to in the grafit, and being so, it is urged, that according to the rulings of this court, no survey could be made for
any other land than that granted after the 24th of January, 1818 ;
as this'would in beffect be a hew grant, which the treaty prohibited
after, that date, according, to the cases of Clarke and Hftertas, in
8 and 9 Peters,'and that. of Forbes, 15 Peters, 182 ; and there being
no equivalent provided in the grant to except the case from these
principles; the survey could not legally be the basis of a decree.
This may have been true, and, the decree for the land contained
in Burgevin's survey erroneous; but the question i, whether the
court below had any-power to correct it. If it had not, then no
petition for such purpose could fte heard, either on the part of the
United States, or the claimants in that court.
From the decree made in 1830, an appeal was prosecuted by the
United States to this court.; the claimants rested conterit, and prosecuted no cross appeal. 10 Peters, 308. On a hearing, the decree
below was affirmed for the specific land, and the cause -remanded
for furtther proceedings, t6 the end that a patent might -issue, pursuant to the 6th section of the 'act of 1824, which declares it shall
be for the land "specified in the decree;" and prohibits a survey
for any other land, unless that decreed- has been disposed of, when
a change is authorized by the 11th section; but as no other qppropriation of the land set forth in the decree -is alleged to exist, this
circumstance ig out of the present case,
The claimants not.being willing to take. the land in Burgevin's
survey, assumed the right to have a resurvey made, or to have'
adopted that made by oshua0 A. Coffee, on their behalf, in 1834,
which they allege is at the place.called for in the grant; and this
on the ground that the decree of 1830 is inconsisterit, it being in
confirmation of the land granted, and also of Burgevin's survey-

620

SUPREME COURT.
The United 8ates v. Marvin.

the places- not being the- sane. This change was refused at'the
land-office here, for the, reason that the decree excluded such a
change until it was altered by the proper judicial authority. For'
Itis purpose the petition for a re-learing was filed,. seeking to have
the decree of 1830 reformed, and that part of it establishing'localitr
and botindaries set aside or disregarded, and the land located elsewhere. This the Superior Court of Edst Florida had no power to.
do, on the facts set ff6rth by the petition, because the decree of this
court, made in affirmace of that made below, is conclusive on the
inferior court; and it has no authority to disturb it by the mode
proposed, but can only execute our mandate, and settle so much as
remains to be done. For the .principles governing in like 'cases,
we refer to the ex parte application of Sibbald, and the rules there
laid down, (12 Peters, 09- 490,) to which nothing need be 'added;
as they are altogether aders to the present proceeding, and show
that the petition was properly dismissed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLATS, V. WILLIA

MARVIN.

The act of .the 26th of May, 1830, pro-tiding for the final settlement of land
claims in Florida, must be construed to contain the'same limitation of time
within which claimt were to be presented is that provided by the act of 23d
of May, 1828.
That limitation was one year. The courts of Florida, therefore, bad no right
to receive a petition for the confirmation of an incomplete concession after
the 26th.of May, 1831.
The case in 15 Peters, 329,, examined and distinguished from the present.

Tins was an appeal from the Superior Court for the district of
East Florida.
It was a land- claim, and as the opinion of the court turned entirely'upon the q-uestion, whether or not the claim was filed in time
in the .cotrt below, it is. only necessary t state thb circumstances
which bear upon that point.
On the 23d of May, 1828, (1 Land Laws, 439,) Congress passed
uwact, the 12th section of which was as follows:
"That any claims to lands,,tenements, and hereditaments, within
the purview of this act, which shall not be brought by petition be.
fore said court within one year from the passage of this act, or which,
being brought before said court, shall, on account of the neglect or
delay of the claimant, not be prosecuted to a final decision within
two years, shall be for ever barred, bdth at law and in equity; and,
no-other action at coInmon law, or proceeding in equity, shall ever
thereafter be sustained in any court whatever."
On the 6th of May, 1830, another act was passed, (1 Land

