SUPREME COURT.

L ss E Or GEORGE CLYMER ET AL., PLAINMTF.
D4v-WINs

ET AL., DEFENDANTS

iN ERROR, V. (,*EORGE

IN ERROR.

A-court is not bound to give, instructions to the jury in the terms required by
either party; it is sufficient if so much thereof are given as are applicabli
to the evidence before the jury, and the merits of the -case as presented by
the parties.
The entry and possession of one tenant in common, is ordinarily.deemed the
entry and possession of all the tenants; and this presumption willprevail in
favour of all, until some notorious act of ouster or adverse possessionby the
party so entering is brought home to the knowledge or notice of the others.
When this occurs, the possession is from that period treatqd as adverse to
the other tenants.
Such a notorious ouster oradverse possession may be by any overt act inpais
of which the other tenan'ts have due notice, or the assertion in any proceeding at law of a several artd.distinct claim or title. If an attempt be made to
Qbtain a partition*, although the legal proceedings by which it is'effected may
be invalid or defective, still, being a matter of public notoriety, the co-tenant
is bound at his peril to take notice of the claim to adverse possession thus
set up.
If the tenants in possession only claim the undivided interest which was held
by their immediate grantors, it is not adverse to the remaining part of the
title, and such persons cannot defend themselves in ejectment by giving in
evidence an outstanding title elder than that under which they claim; nor
can they avail themselves of the Statute of Limitations.
But if the occupants entered into possession and held the lafids for more than
twenty years before the dommencement bf the suit, by a purchase and claim
thereof in entirety and severalty, and not an undivided part thereof in cotenancy, it i4 an advers6 possession, and the Statute. of Limitations is a
good plea.

Tmis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit. Court
of the United Stites for the district of Kentucky.
There.were three tenants in common of awtract- of land in Ken-

tucky, and the question was, how far thei possession of-the occupiers,
6f the three, constituted an adverse'possession
holding under to
against the third, so as to entitle them to the benefit of the' Statute
6f Limitation.

In 1806, a patent was issued by, the Gbvernor of -Kentucky to
George Clymer for one-thiid,-and Charles Lynch and John Blantonl
for two-thirds of a certain tract or parcel of land, containing eleven

thousand acres by survey, bearing date the 30th of.May, '1784, ly. ing and being in the county of Jefferson, on the waters of Harrod's

creek, and bounded as follows, &c., &c.
A division of the land was made by commissioners and offered
in evidence during the trial; and: as the various proceedings under
this commission ran through a long period of' timer the whole of
them will be stated before passing on -to other circumstances in the
history of the case.
"Henry county, the first day of January, eighteen hundred and two.
"We, William Neall and Isaac Forbes, having been appointed
commissioneis by the County Court of the said county of Henry,'in

- JANUARY TERM, 1845.

675

Clymer's Les-see v. D]aWkins et al.

conformity to an act of the General Assembly of the state of Kenlxcky, for the purpose of making division of lands between residents
and non-residents in the said county of Henry, having been called
on to divide a tract of eleven thousand acres on the -waters of Harro4's"creek, in the name of George Clymer for the one-third, ind
Charles Lynch and John Blanton two-thirds,- agreeably to*a patent
bearing date the 24th day of December, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and six, and of the commonwealth of Kentucl4, the fifteenth, and signed by Christopher Greenupi the then
Governor of Kentuckyi It being stated to us that the said George
Clymer. is a non-resident, we have gone on the ground, and, made"
the following division, to wit: Charles Lynch. and' John Blanton's
portion is lot No. 1, containing seven thousand three hundred and
tbirty-three and one-third acres, agreeably to the plat hereby laid
down,'which is bounded as fogioweth, to wit: &c.,- &c.
"No. 2, on the plat allotted to George Clymer on the division, is
bounded as follows, to wit, -containing three thousand six hundred
and sixty-six and two-third acres: Beginning, &c., &c., hereby'conveying and affirniing the foregoing division, agreeable to the said
allotment, to the said Charles Lynch and John Blanton, for the twothirds of said eleven'fh6usand acres, and the one-third to the said
George'Clymer, agreeablyfo the metes and boulds bpfore described.
"1Given under our hands an4 seals as commissioners aforesaid, the
day and date first above written.
WiLL. NnLE,. [L. S.] Com'r.
IsAAc FoRnEs, [L. s.] "Com'r.
"Signed, sealed, and' delivered in presence of
"Henry County Court, Clerk's O/ice, Jan. 1, 1810.
"The within division of land was filed in my office, acknowledged
by William Neale and Isaac Forbes, commissioners in said county
for the division and conveyance of. lands, parties therdto'as their
act and deed, and admitted to record.
"Aft.

Row.

THOMAS, C. C.

"Henry County, October Court, 1827.
"An instrument of writihg purporting to be a division of eleven
thousand 'acres of land, in the county of Henry, between- Charles
Lynch, John Blanton, and* George Clymer, the same being made
by William Neale and Isaac Forbes, cbrmissioners appointed for
that purpose, was this day produced into court, (the commissioners
being absent,) together with the certificate of acknowledgment, entered and attested by Rowland Thomas, clerk. Whereupon, on
motion of Charles H. Allen, attorney for the parties, it is ordered
that the same be now received and recorded accordingly, which
was heretofore done.
EDAM. P. THoMAS, C.
"Aft
By WiLL. SHARP, D. C.

676

tPR'EM-E-.uOURT.
CMymef's Lessee v. t)d*kins et aL

Count, Cout, OerAs' Oice, 1

sHenry
8,
1828.

"I, -Edmund P..Thofis, -lerk-of the County Court for the county
afresaid,'do
certify-,'that on the day of the'date hereof, the foregocommissioeri'
S
report-of lands, together "with tbe certificates
thereoii endorsed, were filed in my office and recorded.
c Att.
Enzm. P. THOx&S, C."
-In 1813, George Clymer, one of the patentees, residing n.Phladelphia, made his will -and diid. 'He devised his property to-certain persois in trust, fdr lie p'aymnt of certain moneys, and these
to be divided amongst his children: and :graffdchildren.
Much evidence was given.in.th'cou'rt below, to show the nature
of the title and possession under which the occupants (residing en.
tirely-uponthe palt allotted t6 Lyfich and Blanton) held their lands.
They all clainmed under Lynch and Blanton; and ,th following is a
summary 6f the evide.-ne
It was proved that these persons entered
ppon and first impr6ved, settled, and occupied, the land; and they,
and those claiming undet them, haveheld, claniiid,'and occupied,
'the land, ag their own, for upwards of twenty-five years before the
commencement of -his suit;; but -no evidence Was introducid by
either of the deferidants, c6nducing to prove that either of them, or
any othef person, had'gven any expres4 notice-to the patentee,'Clymer, in'hislifetime, or either of the trust~es named in the will of said
Clymer, that they, or any-of ther, Lheld -the land adversely to the
claim or right. of Clmer; nor was any evidence given, tending tb
prove that ndtice of any.sort had ever been given to Clyner, or any
of-the trustees named in his will , by any o the defendants, or any
other person under Vhom any of them claim, except the factswhich
the evidence did condfice to establish, that the land in -possession:
of each defendant ha& been iaken possession of,'improved, "and occupied by actual r~esideice,'by'each deftndant, (or .at first by.him.
of *hom e-derived his- possesslon and' claim, of right, and afterwards by hImselQ) as all entirely his or their own, and not as cotenant with Clymer or his devisees, and had been*so ever afterwards
held, for upwards of twenty years, and up to the commencement of
this suit.
It did not appear by the evidence, that either of"the defendants,
or his predecessor.in the pbsgession, had any knowledge or notice,
in fact, that Clymer was a co-partiiar with Lynch and Blanton, or had
any interest in the land; "and plaintiff's coinsel insited only that
they were bound to know and no~e the right of -Clmer,
apparent
on the patent.
-Evidenc.was alsQ introduced to show that most of the defend,ants were within the boun-daiy of a verse patentsp, elder in date than
the patent to Clymer, Lyncfr' nd Blanton, and-that some of them had
contracted with the claimants of those elder pitents, for the land in
their possession, since they became possessed 6f it.
The suit was brought in December, 1840, by the representatives

JANUARY TERM, IM4.

677

Clymfer.'s Lessee v. Da-wki'ns et aL

of Clymer; against sixty-three, occupants of the tract, which, as before stated, had been assigned, in the partition, to Lynch and Blant.n.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff fisked the court to instruct'the jury:
1. Thiat if the jury believe, from the evidence, that the defendanti, or others under whom they claim, entered upon the land in
contest under the claim of Clynier, Lynch and Blanton, for eleven
thousand acres, that such of thd defendants as the ,jury may find so
dntered,. by themselves, or others tinder whom they claim, cannot
avail tbeniselyes of the elder patents read in evidenc, as to defeat
the plaintiff in this action.
2. That the defendants cannot defeat the plaintiff's right to reco-ver, if the jury. believe, from the evidence, the plaintiff ever had
right, by-reason of the Statute of Limitation, provided the jury believe, from the evidence, that the defendants, "orthose under whom
they claim, entered'upon the'land in contest, under the title of Cly-.
mer, Lynch and. Blanton, for the eleven thousahd acres patented to
them.
3. That'if the jury find, from the evidence, that any of the defendants entered upon the land in contest, under aoparol contract of purchase from the agent of Lynch and Blanton, who were tenants in comihon with Clymer in the eleven thousand acre patent, read in evidence; and the jury also find that such of the defendants as so purchased never notified the patentee Clymer, or the trustees named inhis will and codicil, or either of them, that .they held adversely to
Clymer's title, that the defendants, as'to whoZ
th jury may so find,
cannotavail themselves of the Statute of Limitation in defence of this
action. Also,
4. That such defendants -as the juiy may find as above-mentioned, if there be any such, cannot avail themselves of the outstand-,
ing conflicting elder patents read in .evidence, unless the jury further
find that such defendants, in the opinion of the jury have proved a
connection with such elder patent or patents, by purchase, either
*made by them or others under whom they claim.
The court refused to give either instruction, is asked, but instead'thereof gave to the jury the following instruction:
"The courtinstruct the jury, that if they find, from the evidence,
that any of the defendants, or those under whom they claimed, entered upon the parceLof the laud in controveisy in"their possession
at the commencement of this action, under a contract, whether it
was executed or executory, by parol or in writing,' with the agent .
of Lynch and Blanton, or either of their co-grantees with Clymer, of
the eleven thousand acres,, by the patent read by plaintifW, or any
other person claiming utider that patent' whreby they purchased an
individual two-thirds, or any other suph part, and not the entire interest in such parcels or parcels of the lnd,then such defendants, or
those under whom they claimed, and who had so entered, did not,
.by their entry into. the possession, oust Clymer or his deviseeg of his
3L2

678

SUPREME COURT.
Clymer's'Lessee v. Dawkins et a].

or their undivided third thereof; but the entry of such purchasers
and their possession was for him, Clymer, or his devisees, as well as
for themselveg; and in the absence of all evidence of notice to Clymer, or tlose claiming under him, of a subsequent adversary holding
by such occupants, their possession did not become adversar, in
legal effect, to Clymer or his devisees; -and no defendant, who so
entered, can now avail himself of the outstanding legal title by the
elder patents to be read in evidene'; nor cap any such defendant
prevail in his defence of this action by the length of his possession,
and the Statute of Limitation; nor can any-defebdant who entered,
claiming the 6ntire estate in his p;rcel of the land, add to the length
of his Own possessi6n that of any -one under whom he claimed apid
had succeeded, who had'so entered' under a purchase of an undivided, part, and was -so a co-tenant with Clymer or his devisees,
and thereby make out the twenty years of adversary possession within
the statute.",
The defendants moved the following instructions, to find as in
case of a nonsuit as to all the defendarts:
That the plaintiff has shown title only to an undivided interest in
the land, and that only one-fifteenth.
To find in favour of all the defendants whose tenements fall within
the elder claims of Tuttle - and Howard.
To find in favour of all whose-possession existed, and continued,
,and have been held as-ther own, for twenty years before the commencement of this.suit.
To find in favour of those whose possession existed and continued
under Lynch -and Blanton, and adverse to Clymer, for twenty years
before suit brought.
To find in favour of those whose p' session originated, and have
been held as their own, twenty years bifore suit brought, under purchases from Lynch and Blanton; or Either of them, after the division
made under the orders of the Henry county court.
. The court refused to give either of the instructions, as moved by
the defendants, but in substitutiontherefor gave the following instructions:

"The 'ourt instruct the jury, that their verdict ought to be for each
-defendant wh6, or whose predecessor in possession, from whom he
had derived his possession and claim of right, had entered on the
land in his possession at the commencement of the acti6n, twenty
years before th'at day, by a purchase -and claim thereof in severalty,
all as his-own, ahd not an undivided part in co-tenancy with Clymer"
or his 'devisees, but. adversely to him or them, whether such purt
chase wa§ from Lynch or.Taylor, or Lynch and Blanton, or any other
who had ever aftemwards, up. to the commencement of this suit, continued thus to hold such pbssession."
To each opinion- ahd'decision of the court, in refusing to 'give the
instructions as moved by the plaintiff and each of them, and in giving

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

679

Clymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et a-1.

the instructions which were given by the court in substitution, or in-.
stead thereof, the plaintiff at the time excepted. Also, the plaintiff
excepted to the instruction which is given by the court in sub-stituhion of the-instruction moved by the defendants, at the time the'
instruction was given, and he, now excepts to each opinion and deaision, and prays that this his bill of exceptions be signed, sealed,
and.enrolled, which is accordingly done.
"
Tnos. B. MoxRoE, [L. S.]

Crittenden for the plaintiff in error.
Tibbatts and Anrmstrong, (in a printed argument,) for the defendants inerror.
Critenden made the following points:
1. That the proceedings of the County Court of Henry county,
and of the- commissioners for the purpose of making a partition of
said land, were not authorized by any law, and the division was
therefore null and void, because not conformable to the statutes on
which its validity depended. 1 Littell's Laws of Kentucky, 691 ;
Hood v. Mathers, 2 Marshall, 559; 3 Littell's Reports, 40: Clay
v. Shoit, 1 Marshall, 371.
2. That the defendants having entered and held under the patent
to Clymer, Lynh, and Blanton, could not lawfully set up and rely
for their defence upon 'any other outstanding adverse patents to bar
the plaintiff's recovery,.and especially as it was not shown to be a
subsisting and available title.
3. That the possession of the defendants -having been acquired
under Lynch and Blanton, or one or them, could not be considered
as adverse to their co-tenant, Clymer, or allowed to operate as a
bar to-the present action ;and that this is especially true as to those
defendants who showed no deed or written evidence of purchase.
1st. Eight years after the division was said to have been made,
it was given to the clerk, and not to the court until 1827. The act
of Assembly does hot say when it 'nust be recorded, but twentyfive years is too long a time to elapse.. The partie3 might have had
it in' their pocket all this time. The courts in Kentucky have always construed such papers strictly. See th'- buthorities above.
2d. If the defendant has ackmowledged the title of the plaintiff,
be cannot afterwards dispute it. 1 Cines's Rep. 394, 444; 5 Cow.
Rep. 129, et seq. 174; 4 Cranch, 419.
Nor can a defendant, whose predecessors had recognised the title
of the plaintiff, afterwards dispute it. 5 Cow. Rep. 129, 130;
4 Johns. 230; 1 Caines's Rep. 3'4; 4 Munf. 473; 2 Johns. Cas.353;
3 Peters, 50.; 3 Serg. & Rawle, 386 ;. 13 Johns. 116; 3 Martin,
(N. S.) 11; 6 Johns. 34;..7 Johns. 157; 19 Johns. 202; 5 Cow.
620 ;'3 Wash. C. C. Rep. 498.
The .defendants also offered in evidence outstnding titles in

680-

SUPREME COURT.'Plymner's Lessee..

Dawkins et al.

strangers, which they alleged lo be elder and better than the plaintiff'l title. Can they do this?
If it be admitted as the settled doctrine, that t!ough the plaiifriin
ejectment has a title better than that of .the.defendanfit, yet that he is
not entitled to recover if the.defendant can.h6w 'a superi6r title in
a third person, though he does not claim any privity with that third
person: If this be the-. hdmitted doctrine, if is subjec to a Ieat
many exceptions, which destroy its general applicability, and those
exceptions ae supposed to include the present case. The instances
of such',exceptions are numerous, hamely:
'A mortgagor is never suffered to s t-up the title of 'a third person
against his mQrtgagee. Dore v. Pegge, ] T. R. 758, note.
It-is -established that a mortgagor cannot set up a prio,, mortgage
to defeat the recovery-of a second nartgage. He.is barred by his
own act from averring that he had nothing in the premises at the
time of the second -mortgage. "Th&principle of this decision -has
been repedtedly recognised. Lade v. Holford,, 3 Burr. 1416; Newhall v. Wright, 8 Mass..Rep. 138,'153; Jackson v. Dubois, 4Johns.
Rep. -216.
A lessee cannot do it against his lessor; 8 Mass. Rep, 138 153;z
1 Caines'sRep. 444.;-2 Caines's Rep'.: 215; 7 John Re1p.-1-86; but
it is needlesstO dite authorities on this point.
-So a person who has- entered into possession: under another, and
acknowledged his title, cannot set up an outstanding-title iianother:
Jackson v. Stewart, 6, Johns Rep. 34; Jackson v. De Waltp.
7.Johns. Rep. 157 ; Jackson v.Henman, 10 Johns. 292.
Nor can a person claiaing the land under atenant, set up an out'standingtle against the landlord. Jacks6n v. Graham, 3 Caines's
Rep, 188.
A'person. whb, has entered by permission under' one tenant in
common, cannot, f1er partition -made, set up an adverse title against,
another ttnant- in c6mmbn, to whose share the 'premises-had falkn.
Smith v. Burtis, 9 Johns. Rep 174; Fisher. v. Creel, 13 Johns.
Rep. 116.
A mere intruder cannot protect'hiinself ty setting up an outstand- ing title. Jackson v. Harder, 4 Johns. Rep. 202.
But.if a defendant hve acknowledged the title of the plain'tiff. he
cannot afterwards dispute it. Jackson 6x dem. Low v. Reynolds,
1. Caines's Rep. 444; -Jackson ex dem. Smith: et al. v. Stewart,.
6 Johns. Rep. 34; Jackson ex' derij. Davy v. De Walts, 7.Johns.
Rep. 157;.-Jackson ex -dem. Browne .v. Hanman, 19- Johns.
Rep. -202.
And even where the predecessors" of the.defendant had acknowledged the title of the claimant, it vas held that the defendant was
equallyprecluded from setting up' the defenc.'of adverse possession.
Jackson ex dem, Van Schaick and others" v. Davis- 5 Cow. Rep.
129, 130.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

681

Clymer's Lessee'v. 'Dawkins e't al.

Where one takes by descent as a co-heir and tenant in common,
he cannot show (in ejectment by his co-heir, or one claiming'under
him) that the ancestor bad no title. Jackson ex: dem. Hill v.
Streeter, 5 Cow. Rep. 620.
.armstrong,for defendants in error, s~tied the case aid proceeded
thus:
The issue, then, in ffig cause between the -parties seems to-be on
the question:-*did the entry'of- dfendants on land to which plaintiff
had right in comron wit. their-vendor, notwithstinding their ign.orance of,that right, their want of imtehtion to enter, as tenants in
comnQon,'and their express entry claiming and holding the land as
their sole freehold, adversely to -the whole world' constitute them
-tenints in common with Clymer?.
It is not, I presume, necessary for me to- pite authority to show,
-the ihtention with which'an entry is, made onland defines the nature
of that entry. These.defendants, and those under.whomfiey claim,
entered under their purchase: as sole owners in fee of 'the whole
lands held liy them,'and were so posse9sed thereo' o'or more than'
twenty-five years before the commencement of this'stilt.
The counsel for defendants does not.deem it necessary toconsuine-the time of the. courty by using argument,. or citing authority,'
to prove that possessioi of land by, a piurchaser, under a contract
for the entire estate6, without right in the grantor, is adverse to the
righfifl owner; or that a person in possession of land zay purchase.
in an outstanding title to protect that possession; but will merelycall the attention-of the court to the case of Jackson exdem. Ppeston,'&c.; v Smith,'in the SupremeCourt of NewYork, 13 Johns.
Rep.'400'as a-case in point. .There the -defendant held under a
deed made by one out of nine tenants in common; bui the deed
purported to be for the whole-fee. The court' says, (page 411,)
"the deed'," under which defendant held, "for the whole lot cannot control the possession of the defendant, and of his-father, so as
t6 make it the entry and possession of a tenant in common, merely
because it gave title to no more than one-ninth'part' of the whole
lot ;".and again, (page 1.12,) "lit is evident, therefore, that the dodtrine in relation to tenants in common does not apply to this cse.
It ight as well be urged as applicable tona conveyance made by a
stranger of any lands held in common, and it will not be questioned
that the purchaser under such a'deed,, given without right on.the
part of the grantor, would notwithstanding be adverse to the right!
*ful owners, although held by themg in common."
It is believed the case cited presents the true law of this case
and should the court deeii it necessary, they are respectfully requested to examine the case referred to for themselves.,
Tibatts, for the defendants in error, recited the facts and evidence
in the case with great particularity, and then added:
VoL. I.--86
-

682

SUPREME COURT.
Glymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et aL

-

Under this state of the evidenQe, on the part of the Aefendants, we
contend that the law of the case -was for them, and the verdict of
the jul correct on the following grounds;
1. Because the division was a good and valid division, and severed the estate of Clymer from that of his co-patentees.
2. Because,-if it were not good in its inception, itbecame good by
thi lapse 6f time, and the legal presumptions arising from the lapse
of time. 3. Because the defendants held the land adversely to the right or
title of the lessor of the plaintiff, and their -holding being adverse,
his right of enty is- barred by the Statute of Limitations.
By the act of the legislature of Kentuckyi approved December
19, 1792, (2 M. & B. 1066,) it is enacted; sect. 1, thai if the
owners of lands within this state, -who are non-residents, do not
attend to have the same divided, where the same is held in conjunction with citizens of this commonwealth, or with other non-residents,
where such non-residents may apply by themselves or agents to have
the same divided, 6r do not appoint agents to make such division
within one year 'from the passage hereof, the courts of the several
counties within this state shall appoint six commissioners in each
county, who, or any two of them, shall, when called upon for the
purpose by the citizens of this commonwealth, or th owners of lands
who are non-residents, or their agents, a tend and make such division agreeable to die contract entered into by the parties, "1and such
commissioners shall make return of such land by them so divided,
with the quantity and naines of the parties concerned, aiid by whom
called, upon to do the -business, to the county court of the county
where'such land may lie, to be there recorded."
The requisitions of this act are,
1. The appointment -of six commissioners by the court, which
has been done.
2. The return of the land, with the quantity and names of the
parties concerned, and by whom called on, &c., which is construed
to mean "a description of the boundaries of the whole tract, and of
the particular lots divided, together with the names of each party
holding interests, so that it may duly appear who were parties to thd
partition;" Hood v. Mather, 2 Marsh, 560; which has been complied with.
3. That the return shall be made to the county court of the county;
and it is decided (Ibid.) that it will not be good to make the return
to the clerks'office, but thaf it must be ma e to the-county court.
We contend that this condition has also been complied with; for
though the division was first returned to the clerk's office and
acknowlddged by the commissioiers, yet it was afterwards presented
'to the court, which was good, because the statute does not require
that the commissioners shall present it in person, nor acknowledge it;
it being an official act, such as the return of a sumnions by a sheriff,

-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.-

683

Clymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et al.

which, with the papers-with the return written thereon, maybe handed
in person,.or sent by a third person, or by letter, &c.
Nor does the statute fix any time in which the division is to be
returned; nor is there any thing to be done by the- commissioners in
court, or by the court itself, the law itself ordering what is to be done.
Besides, it appears from the record of the court, that it 'as received
and ordered to be recorded, on the motion of "the agent of the
parties," which will include Clymer as well as the other, and will
be so intended by the court. Vide Pringle v. Sturgeon, Litt. Sel.
Cas. 112, and Parker's Heirs v. Anderson, 5 Monr. 540. That if the
division -was not good in its inception, it~became good by the lapse
of time, and the jury had a right to presume 'every thing which.
wouldbe nhcessafy to make it good, as a-deed of release, or confirmation from Clymer.
"Artificial or legal presumption is arbitrary, inflexible,, and conclusive. it is the policy of the law substituted for proof of facts,
the estJlishment of. which by oral testimony, or written testimony,
or written memorial,'.is rendered impossible by. lapse of time."
. The presumption not absolutely conclusive is such, -that after
twenty-years a bond is paid off; a mortgage satisfied, the mortgagor
remaining all the time in possession; the equity of redemption
released, the mortgagee having enjoyed the possession twenty years;
or the legal title conveyed to the purchaser after twenty yeas' qs:session, &c., &c. These may all be combatted by pioofs 6r explanations, inconsistent with the -inference, of reason, and from the
isolated facts which of themselves would establish the presumption.
Hence their consideratioii belongs to the jury, to whom they will be
left upon hypothetical instructions. The jury may presume a deed
when neither the chancellor nor the common law judge will or can.
Starkie, 1216, 1227, 1235; Peake's Ch.25.
A poisession of thirty years or less, by a puirchaser who held a
bond for a title, would be sufficient, in the absence of any control'ling circumstances, to create a egal . presumption of a conveyance
from the possessor of the legal title. In such a case, it is not only
necessary for peace and justice, that such a presumption should
arise, but isintrinsicallyprQbable that a deedwas made. 10 Johns. 377;
11 Johna. 456; . Mass. Rep. 399; 5 Cranch, 262; Gaines v. Conn's
Heirs, 2 J. J. Marshall, J07.
Although the Statute of Limitations will not'run where the possession held is on pledge, mortgage, &c., yet, "if poss&ssion had been
of twenty years' duration, it might have justified the presumption, in
case there were no repelling circumstances, that the testator relinquished the title to.the slaves in satisfaction of-the debts, and a court
of chancery would not then interfere'to disturb the possession.
Mims v. Minis, 3 J. J. Marshall, -106.
Without some opposing probabilityi the jury will presume adeed
after possession of twenty. years, by one who had purchased- the
-

684'

SUPREME CO'URT.
Clymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et' aL

land, which, in consequence of his ptirchase, he shall have so lofig
occupied.- 2 Saund* 175 a.; Starkie, 502, 1243, 989 ; 7 Wheat. 59.
Grants may be presumed from lapse of time. 12 Co. Rep. 5;
2Heii.-& Munf. 370.
Generally whatever will'toll the right of entry will create a presumption of the conveyabce of the legal title.
Every thing
to the validity
of a collector's
will he
-eed
presumed
after necessary
twenty years,-if
itbe shownt.hat
he was collector oftaxes which were comiied to him. 14 Mas1s.7Rep. '145; Thid. 1'7;
Fitzhugh' v. Croghan, 2 J. J. Marshall, 436.
3. But we contend further, th tte defendants held the land adversely to the right or, title of the lessor of the" plaintiff, and that
their holding being adverse, the right of entry is tolled, and the
plaintiff is barred by the Statute of.Limiitatiois.
We admit, as ageneralprinciple, that'thepssession of'one tenant
in common, or joint-tenant, is the possession of the o~ther; Coleman
v.
Bibb,
209;ii and
thatthein Statute
does
notHutchifson,
run against 3one
taxant
common
favour of
ofLimitations
another, unless
there haS been an actual ouster and advers'e holding. (Thid.) But hi
this case we contend that there has been bath; we show that the
defendants, ignorant of the rights of the ancestor of the'lessor of the
•plainliff,
without
enter asand
tensnts
inu.common,
enered upon
the any
land,intention
expresslyto claiming
holding
it as thr
sole freehold, adversely to the whole wQrld; they, and those under
whom'they claim, entered under their prchases as-'so owne in
fee of the whole land held by the e,
and wern so possessed or more
than twenty-five years before the commencement of the suit.
qruoand
animo
with which
an' entry.
is made
on land,
will
define
theThe
nature
character,
whether
friendly
or adverse,
and.
extent(
of
the possession acquired by the entry; 1 Marsh. 34o7 ;.Cal .Lhen's
Heirs, 3
iMarsh.
615; and wheth the possession of lanl is a'verse
to a certain claim or not, is a qestion of fact to' be fotmd by the"
jury; B~owles v.' harp; 4 Bjbb, 550; or as the true doctrine is more
"distinctly
laid down
Bartt
wife recogdising
v. French, 1theComih.
The possession
of oneintenant
in and
Comingn
title ofRep.
his
co-tenants,
is in
the possession
of all;
that
sersons nders
thelegal,
same consideration
title, withoutiyn,
cannot
prescribe
against each other. Broussardv. Duhamel, 3 Mari's Rep. N S. l.
That where ' two persons claim by the same tijie, there shall he
no adverse possession, so as to toll 'entry
the
of the one, but n
entry of the other be ato all'times, lawful. 2 Esp.N, P.t8 (old
paging 434;) Carothers etral. v.
Lessee
ahe
Cf
Dunning etal.,'
3Serg. & Rawle's Rep. '386.
But .that a 5lerson claims to hold land under, the same trile, is no
evidence that he holds amicably with the original holder of that title,
or those claiming under him. The purchasei
of landn sold fo the
non-payment of taxesholds adveisely to the forme
r
owner, and

JANUARY TERM, 1845,

685--

Clymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et al

can consequently avail himself of twenty years' -adverse possession.
Graves v. Hayden, 2 Litt. 65. The court say. "1the circumstance.
that the defendant claims. to hold the land: in controversy under Martin's title, was no evid1ence of his not holding adversely, nor'could
it prevent the Statute of Limitations from running. Being a purchaser
in fee, though lie held under, Martin's title, he did not hold under
Martin, but in his own right, in virtue of his purchase, and must
therefore have c3ntinued" to hold adversely to Martin and. those'
deriving title through him.
* So a purchaser unddr a sheriff's sale-and
Where a party had- obfained-a decree,,though a void, one, for a
conveyance in fee absolute, and a conveyance in pursuance thereof
of the inheritance of his.. deceased wife, under the erroneous idea
that he was heir of her son, who diedzshortly after his mother's
death, and had sold ,the land to one who retained the possession
twenty years, such alienee is protected in his title and possession by
lapse -of time. Baseman's Heirs v. Batterton et al., 1 Dana, 432.
So with thedefendants, notwithstanding they claim'thd same title,
and 'though the division may have been void.
Therefore, though the possession of one tenant in common should
be deemed-tho gossession aiso of his co-tenant, nothing to the con-.
trary appearing; yet if a: tenant in -ommon enter not as a tenant in
common, but adversely to his co-tenant, his twenty years'., possession.
would not only be a good defence against,- but would in fact so
invest him'with the complete title, as to enable him to recover in
ejectment against his co-tenant.
" That one tenant in common may oust his co.-tenant, and hold:.
in severalty is not to be questioned. But a silent possession,
accomp nied with no -act which can amount. to an ouster, or give
notice to his co-tenant that his possessioh is adverse,, ought not, we
think, to be construed into an adverse-possession. McClung v. Rbs .
"5WheaL Rep: 124, pbr Marsh. Ch. J.
The law is, that. nothing but an. actual ouster by one tenant
in common shall give him the exclusive possession. .Lessee of
Carothers et al; v. The
Empsom -v. Shackleton, 5 Burr.
Lessee of Dunning et al., 3 Serg. Rawle's Rep. 385. *
But if there has been an actual ouster and adverse holding, it is
well settled, in numerous cases,'that the Statute of Limitations Will
run. from the time of such ouster and adverse possessgion.. Coleman
v. nlutchingon, 3 Bibb, 212; and vide Brackett v. Norcross,.
1 Greenl.. Rep. 91; Russell's Lessee v. Baker; 1 Har. & Johns. -71;
Lessee of Brandt et al. v. Whitbeck, 6 Cow. Rep. 633; Van Dyck
v. Van Buren, 1 Caines's Rep. 84; Bryans.v. Atwater, 5 Day's
Rep. 188.
We contend that the division ofthe land, the marldng-the'lines,
the sdIling the entire fee, amounted to an actual ouster-no .actual
force jvas necessaryi and none could have been used in this case, the
-3M
-

-2604;
-&

686

SUPREME COURT.
Clymer's Less'ee v. Dawkins' et'al.

"land being wild, land. To prove an actual ouster by one tenant in
common against another, it is not necessary to show that any ral
force was used; it is sufficient to show that the 'tenant in possession
claims the whole, and denies the title of his co-tenant; Meconnell
v. Brown, Litt. Sel. Cas. 468; Adams on Eject. 56; and this rule
must work both ways.
Where the defendant, having purchased a lot'of land, and received
a deed for the whole lot, in which the grantor stated himself to be.
the heir of the -patentee, and lie entered into the possession under
that deed, and it.afterwards appeared that the grantor had title to
one-ninth part of the lot only, as a tenant in common, this was held
not to alter the character of the defendant's possession, so as to prevent its being adverse, but that he must be deemed to have entered
under his deed, as. sole owner of the fee in the whole lot; and that
possession of land by a purchaser under a deed for the entire lot,
given without right in the grantor, is adverse to the 'ightful owMers,
though tenants in common with the grantor. Lessee of Preston et
a]. v. Smith, 13 .Johns. Rep. 406.
And:in the case of Culler•,et al. v. Motzer, 13 Serg. &Rawle, 356, it
is held, that if one -tenant in common sell the whole tract, and possessiori be held adversely for twenty-one years,.the sale and p6ssession amount to an ouster of the co-tenaht, who is bound by the act
of limitations.
This case is fully in point: the court say, "the possession here
was for twenty-five years, in denial of the right 'of the, other; for 'the
sale of the whole, and the possession under such qale; would amount
to an ouster." The purchaser, who came into possession in 1800,
came'into.possession under a title adverse. Motzer could never be
considered as a co-tenant, and as the bailiff and -receiver of James
Br6wn, and as such accountable for the profits in an action for account render., He nevere' entered as a tenant in common; and the
charge -ofthe court was altogether correct, for-this was an entire tract
of land to which there was no adverse claim, land therefore the adverse claim was co-extensive with the claim. That was the only
right; and the possession there being no adverse title, was according
to that right. There ought not, consequently, to be inade any deduction on account -of James's supposed outstanding title. Jackson
ex dem. Preston v. Smith, 13 Johns. Possession of land by a purchaser, under a deed of an entire lot, is adverse to the rightful Qwner,
though tenant in common with the grantor.
If, then, a tenant in common 6r joint-tenant cannot hold adversely
to his 'co-tenant, -and if the holding of the defendants' amounts, as we
confend it does, to al, ouster in contemplation of law, and they do
hold adversely to the claim of Clymer, the esor of the plaintiff then
they can rightfully rely either upon the Statute of Limitations, or an
outstanding elder. title, according as their circumstances may require.
either'defence; and there is no errorin the proceedings of the Cireuit

JANUARY TERM, 184 .
Clymer's Lessee

..Dawkin-s

87

et al.

Copirt, either in refusing to grant the instructions asked for by the
counsel'for the plaintiff, or in giving the substituted instruction fo
the defendants, or in substituting the instruction for those asked for
by the plaintiff.
-r. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the case of a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the district of Kentucky. The original suit.was anL ejectment f6ra certain
tract.of land, inKentucky, containing eleven thousand acres,; and
upon the trial, upoh the general issue, a verdict was found for the
defendants, upon which judgment passed for them. A bill of exceptions was taken by the plaintiff; to the opinions of the coprt at
th:"trigl; and to revise those opinions, the- present writ of prroris
brought by the plaintiff.
On the 24th of December, 1806, a patent for the tract of eleven
thousand acres of land was granted by'the commonwealth of Kentucky3-untb George Clymer, (under whose will the lessbrs of the
-jlaintiff make claim,) one-third, and unto Charles Lynch and John
Blanton, (under whom the defendants make claim,) two-thirds. In
the year 1810, if not at in earlier period, (for tliere is some repugnancy in the various dates stated in the record,) Lynch and Blanton
procured a partition of the tract to be made, by the authority of the
County Court of Henry, by certain commissioners, appointed pursuant to the Kentucky statute of 1792, by which one-third was assigned
in severalty to Clymer, (he being then a non-resident,) by. certain
metes and bouids; and the remaining two-thirds were assigned to
Lynch and Blanton, by certain other metes and bounds. The return
of the commissioners was filed, acknowledged, and admitted to record in the clerk's office of the cointy of Henry, in li0; but the
court of that county do not seem to have ordered the return to be
received and recorded until 1827. How this delay took place, has
not beed satisfactorily explained; and the omission has been insisted
upon as an objection to the validity of the partition.
All the defendants appear, from the evidence, to have derived title
to the lands in their respective occupation, -nd to have entered into
possession of the same, after the partition was made, and by titles in
severalty, derived exclusively from or under Lynch and Blanton; and
the lands held-by them are situate exclusively within the tract as-s
signe+d by tha partition to Lynch and Blanton. The main defence
relied upon by the defendants, at the trial, was an adverse possession to the title of Clymer, during the period prescribed by the Statute of Limitations of Kentucky. To rebut this defence, the plaintiff
insisted that the partition was void, and being void; the defendants
having entered into the land under the patent to Clyraer, Lynch and
Blanton, who still, notwithstanding the partition, in point of law,
remained tenants in common of the land, were not at liberty.to set
up an adverse possession against that title; nor at liberty to set up

688
--

SUPREME COURT.
Clymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et al.

any outstanding superior title in any third person, under any elder
patent offered in evidence, to defeat the plaintiff in the action.
The-plaintiff, upon the evidence, (which need not be here particularly recited,) moved the;court to instruct the jury as follows: [See
the statement of the reporter.]
The defendants also moved the court to give certain instructions
to the jury; which instructions' the court refused to give, but gave
the following instruction .in substitution thereof: [See statement.]
To the instructiohs so refused as propounded by the plaintiff, and
to the several instructions so given by the court, the plaintiff excepted; and the cause stands before us for consideration upon the
validity of these exceptions.
The first point made at the argument for the plaintiff, is as to the
validity of the partition under the proceedings in the county of Henry.
In our judgment, it is wholly unnecessary to decide whether those
proceedings were absolutely void or not; for, assuming them to have
been defective or invalid, still, as they were matter of public notoriety, of which Clymer was bound, at his peril, to take notice; and.
as Lynch and Blanton, under those proceedings, claimed an exclusive
title to the land assigned to them, adversely to Clymer; if the defendants entered uder that exclusive title, the possession must be
deemed adverse, in point of law, to that of Clymer.
And this leads us to the consideration of the instructions actually
given by the court, which cover the whole ground in controversy,
and, if correct in point of law, show, that the court rightly refused to
give the instructions asked by the plaintiff, so far as they were not
consistent with the instructions actually given. It is very clear that
the court are not bound to give instructions in the terms required by
either party; but it is sufficient if so much thereof are given as are
applicable to the eviOknce before the jury, and the merits of the case,
as-presenied by the parties.
The first instruction given by the court is as favourable to the
plaintiff, in all its bearings, as the law either justifies or requires,
and is in direct response to the substance of some of the instructions
asked by the plaintiff. It in substance states that if the defendants
entered under the title of Clymer, Lynch and Blanton, as tenants in
common, and did not claim any title except to two-thirds of the parcels of land respectively held by them, and not to the entirety thereof,
then their entry into the possession did not oust either Clymer or his
devisees of his or their undivided third part, and was not adverse
'thereto; and that the defendants so entering could not avail themselves of the defence of the Statute of Limitations; and they could
not avail themselves of the outstanding legal title of third persons by
any alder patent. So far as this instruction goes, it is manifest that
it was favourable to the plaintiff; and indeed it is not now per se
objected to, but the objection is, that it does not go far enough, and
thus was to the prejudice of the plaintiff.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

689

Clymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et al.
The real point in controversy turns upon the second instruction
given by the court, in answer to the prayer of the defendants. That
instruction, in substance, states, that if any of the defendants entered
into possession of the lands respectively claimed by them, and held
the same for more than twenty years before the commencement of
the suit, by a purchase and claim thereof in.entirety and severalty,
and not for an uindivided part thereof, in co-tenancy with Clymer
or his devisees,'but adversely to them, then such defendant was
entitled to a verdict.in his favour, whether he held by a purchase
from Lynch, or Blanton, or any other person who had ever afterwards, up to the commencement of the suit, continued thus to hold
the possession. We seeno objection to this instruction; which ought
to prevail in favour of the plaintiff: on the contrary, we deem it entirely correct, and consonant to the principles of law upon this subject. It is true, that the entry and p6ssessioii of one tenant in common of and into the land held in common, is ordinarily deemed the
entry and possession of all the -tenants; and this presumption will
prevail in favour of all, until some notorious act of ouster or adverse
possepsion by the party so entering into possession, is brought home
to tie khowledge or notice of, the others. When this occurs, the
possession is from that period treated as adverse to the other tenants,
and it will afterwards be as operative against them, as if the par.ty had
entered under an adverse title. Now such a notorious ouster or a'dverse possession may be by any overt act in pais, of which the other
tenants have due notice, or by the assertion, in any proceeding at
law, of a several and distinct claim or title to an entirety of the wholM
land, or, as in the present case of a,several and distinct title to the
entirety,ofthe Whole of the tenant's purparty under a partition, which,
in contemplatioit of law, is known to the other tenants. Upon so familiar a doctrine it scarcely seems necessary to cite any authorities.:
So early as Townsend and Pastor's case, 4 Leon. Rep. 52, it was
holden in the Common Pleas, by all the justices, that where there
are two co-parceners of a manor, if one enters and makes a feoffinent
in fee of the whole manor, this feofl'ment not only passes the moiety
of such coparcener, which she might lawfully part with, but also theother moiety of the 6ther coparcener, by disseisin. This decision
was fully confirmed and acted on, in the. recent case of Doe d. of
Re'ed v. Taylor, 5 Barn. & Adolph. Rep. 575, where the true distinction was stated, that although the general rule is, that where seyeral
persons have a right, and one of them enters generally, it shall be
an entry for all; far the entry generally shall always be taken according to right; yet that any overt act or conveyance, by which the
party entering or conveying asserted a title to the 'ntirety, would
amount to a disseisin of the other parties, whether joint-tenants, or
tenants in common, or parceners. Upon*the same ground, it was
held, in New York, in the case ofJackson v. Smith,. 13 Johns. Rep.
406, that a conveyance made by orie tenant in common, bf the entire
Voy.. II.--87
3x 2

690

SUPREME COURT.
Clymer's Lessee v. Dawkins et al.

fee of the land, and an entry and possession by the purchaser, under
that deed, is an adtverse Ipossession to all the other tenants in common. To the same effect is the case of Bigelow v. Jones, 10 Pick.
Rep. 161. The'reason of both of these'latter cases is precisely the
saine as in the case of -a feoffment, the notoriety of the entry and
possession, under an-adverse title, to the entirety of the land.
. Similar principles have been repeatedly recognised in this court.
In McChing v. Ross,. 5 Wheat. Rep. 1.16, 124, the court said,
"That one tenant in. common may oust another, and hold in severalty, is not to be questioned. But a silent possession, accompanied
with no act which can amount to an ouster, or give notice to his
co-tenant, that his possession is adverse, ought not, we think,, to be
ionsrued into an adverse possession." In the case of the Lessee
of- Clarke v. Courtney, 5 Peters, 319, 354, this court also held,
that where a person enters into .land under'a deed or title, his
possession (in the absence of all other qualify.ing or controlling circumstances) is construed tobe co-extensive witht his deed or title;
and although, the deed or title may turn out to be defective or void,
yet the true owner will be deemed disseised to the extent of the
boundaries of such deed or title., This doctrine is strongly applicable to the possession under. the partition -in the present case.
There are s veral other-cases affirming the same. doctrine, and especially Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229, 236 ; Barrv. Gratz, 4 Wheat.
Rep. 213, 223 ; and The Society for Propagating the Gospel v. The
Town of Pawlet, 4 Peters, 480, 504, 506. The doctrine has been
carried by thiscourt one step farthex; but at the same time one which
is entirely consistent with-the principles on 'which the general rule,
and
the exceptions.
to it,535,
are founded.
Blight's
Rochester,
7 Wheat. -Rep.
549-550, In
it was
held, Lessee
that nv.-cases
of vendor and purchaser, although the latter claimed his title under
the
or through
the former,
purchaser
yet as3sale,
between
the possession of
under the
where itthemselves,
was absolute and unconditional, was adverse to that of thg vendor, and he might protect that
possession by the purchase of a y other title, or by insisting upon
the invalidity ofe
ti
ale the
tofvendor, as the foundation of any
suit against him. Now, upon this last ground, the defendants were
certa' aw
nyfull liberty asabsolute puichasers in fee to maintain their
adverse
ndnd,
possession to the
and the bar of the Statute f Limitations against Lnch and Blanton, and "nforto against Clymer.
Upon theal hole, we are entirely satisfied that the second instruction given by the court w c6rrdt
fs
in point of law; and, therefore,
the judgment of the Ciicuit Court ought to be armed ioh cots.

