SUPIEME COURT.

Ti

UNITED STAT99, PLAInTMFFS, V. Eu S. PRESC6Tr XT -AL.,
DEFENDANTS.

The felonious taking and carrying away the public inoneys in the custody of a
receiier of public moneyt, without -any-ault or negligence on his part, does
riot discharge him and his sureties, and cannot bi'set up as a defence to an
action on'his official bond.

Tins case came up on a certificate of division-in opinion between
t$e judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Illinois:
, On-the 4th of March, .1839, Prescott was appointed receiver of
public moneys at Chicago, in Illinois.
On the 1st of 'October, 1840, he executed a bonid,*together with
twenty-seven other persons, who were all defendants in the present
suit, in the penal sum of $150,000; the condition of which was as
follows: "If the said Eli S.- Preseott had truly and faithfully exe- to
continue
faithfully
andoffice,
andtheshould
Souted-and
to the
a'ccording
duties truly
of said
discharge, all
execute anddischarged,.
fully kept,
should
well, and
trulymoreover
and faithfully
keep, truly
safely,and
without
faithhad well,
Staes,
United
th and
laws.of
loaning or using, all the public
collected by him, or otheraoney
wise, at any time plted in his possession and custodytoill the same
or officer
department
by-theorproper
be be
ordered
or should to
had
-been,
of- the
government,
transferred
paid out,
and when
such
be received, had
or should
transfer
or payment
orders
for and
faithflly
promptly
made,had
andbeen
should
faithfully and promptly
do andwhich
perand should
done,
9rid had
,sanme asluties,
directed, fiscal
make,
the other
form; all
agent
tas
of .the
government,
have been or may be imposed by any act of Congress, or by any
regulation of the Treasury Department made in conformity to law,
perform, all
should doof and
and performed,
and
acts also
and had
dutiesdone'
required
by law, or'and
by direction
any of the executive" departments of the government, as agent for paying tenslons, or for making any othe disbursements which
oeher
of the
-heads of those deplrtments might be required by law to make, and
which 'vere of a character to be nade by a 'depositary constitufed
by an act of Congress, entitled 'An act to provide for the collection, safe keepi, transfer and disbursements of the-public reve-.
hue,' approved uly
1840,
d, aconsistently with the other official
andand
of
obligation
then
saidand
upon
him,
impbsed
duties
hone effect, otherwise it should the
abide
srem
itoin be
fullvoid
force
-

'virtue."
- In June,

1843, the United States brought an action of debt upon
this bond aginst Prescot
eo
d allyhis securities setting forth,
arglngst. other breaches, that on the
m 15th of Ju
oie,
'842, irescott
was orddered by the selrta, of the Treury to transfer the public

JANUARY TERM, I845.

09

The Un.ited States,v. Prescott et a].

mnoneys to Edyrard H. Hadduck; and-that he negleoted and refused
soI The
to do.defendants
filed several pleas.
'he 3d, 4th and.6th were of
the same character, and it is only pecessary f insert one of them.
" 3. And for a further -plea in this behalf, the said defendants say
actio non, because they say that the said Eli S. Prescott, before the.
commencement of this suit, did pay.to the said .pIaintiff all moneys
which came into his hands as receiver of public moneys, excepting
the said- Ell.
the sum of $12,815; and the said defendants aver that
S. Prescott tendered, to the said Plaintiff the sum of $127 before the
commencement of this suit;'and the said defndants aver thatwhilst
the sanid Eli,8: Prescott had- said money in his possession, and
before the commencement of -this suit, some person or persons, to
said defendants unknown, feloniously did steal, take, ind cafry away
from the possession of the said Eli S. Prescott, the sum -of$11,688.;
part and parcel of said money received by the said Eli S. -Piescott,
as receiver of public moneys, although'the said Ell S: Prescott used
ordinary care and diligence in the "safe-keeping of the same, and
this they are ready to 'verifyi. wherefore they pray jtidgnaent, &c.
To these pleas the plaihtiflf demurred gene'raly, and the defendants joined in the demurrer.
And the cause being argued upon the said dem'Irrer before, the
ciurt, the opinions of the judges were opposed on- this question,
namely: Does the felonious stealing, taking, and carrying away the
public moneys in the.custody of a receiver of -publicnioneys, without any fault or-negligence on his part, discharge him and-his sureties, and is that a good and valid defence to an action -on his official
bond ?
Upon this-question the cause came up.
.Nelson, (attorney-general,)*for the plaintiffs.
Dicley and Burke, for the defendants.
JNelson said, that if it-were not for the printed argument, filed -6n
behalf of the defendants, he would have thought it enough to say,
with respect to the money being stolen, that there was no such condition in the bond. It.was contended by the other side, that the
case was to be governed by the principles of baifment. If the bo]Rd
were to be laid aside, and the case examie d . as -if it were one of
parol contract, it would 'still be found that the defendant was respon-:
sible. In Southcote's case, 4 Co. Rep. 83, it was held no defence .
to say that gbods were stolen, and in Willes, 118, it was again"
affirmed that a defendant was responsible for robbery. But this is
not a'case of general baihiient; it rests on special contract.' Allthe',
principles .vhich govern it are summed .up in Story on Bailments, 21.
Bailments-may be enlarded or resiricted by special contract' Thi
condition of the bond here is to keep safely, and it is of course a-.
special bailment. It would be mischievous to apply the doctrineof
-

580

SUPREME C.O URT.
"T'he United States v. Prescott et.aL

general bailments to such cases. IT carriers are held responsible
rom motives of public policy, much more strongly is the necessity
felt in the cases of officers 'of govdrnment, where the door could so
easily be opened to collusion and fraud. In Coggs v. Bernard,
2 Lord Raym. 918, this dodtrine is indicated, when speaking of the
fifth species of bailment, and the same principle is sustained by Raymond, 220; 1 Ventris, 190; Holt, 131; 1 Wilson, 281; 1 Term
Rep. 27; Strange,'128.
"Thecase relied upon by the. other side .is 17 Mass. Rep. 479, where
gold was deposited with the.Essex Bank for safe -keeping, and
stolea by the officers of the bank.: But that was bailment without
consideration. The bank received nothing for keeping it, whereas,
in this case, the party uridetok to keep. the'money, and was paid
for it.
The argument of Dickey and Burke was as follo-ws:
1. T1he defendant, Prescott, is a depositary for. hire, and unless
his liability- was enlargedby the special contract to keep-safely, he
is only subject to the liabilities. imposed by law upon such a
depositary..
2. The special contract to keep safely does not enlaige the liabilitys
in the case of a depositary for hire.'.
1st. It does not enlarge it by the ordinary meaning and accepta-tion of-the terms "keep'safelk ," nor,
, 2d. Has the judicial construction put on. those words enlarged
the liability.
1.- The defendant is a depositary for hire,- and comes under the
liability imposed upon such depositary. He is' within the class laid'
down by Lord Holt, Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Lord' Raym. 917, as the
fifth class of bailments, and called by Judge Story in his Commentary
on Bailments, and Jones on Bailment3, locatio custodite, or "depo si ts
for hire," or "the hiring of care and services to be performed or
bestowed on the thing delivered," or-." hire of custbdy." . Story on
Bail. sect..8, 442, 2 e.d.; Jones on'Bail. 90, 91, 96, original ed.
Such a depositary is bound to ordinary diligence, and only responsible for losses by ordinarynegligence. Story on Bail, sect: 442;
Jones on Bail. 97,'.98, 99; Platt v. Hibbard, 7 Cow. R. 497.
1 If he-uses du'e care, and the prope4y deposited is nevertheless
stolen, he is excused; Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Lord Raym. 918, where
Lord Holt. says, "he~is only to do the best he can; and if he be
robbed, it is a good accpunt" and again, (p. 918,) "and yet if h6
receives his master's money, and keeps it locked up, with a reasonable care,. he shallnot ie"anuwerable for it though it be stolen." See
also Story on Bail. sect. 444,4553 2d ed.; Roberts v. Tuiner, 12 T.
R. 232; Brown v. Anderson, 2 Wend.' 593.
'If then the defendant, Prescott, was such 'a depositary, the pleas
averring that the money was stolen 'without any default on his part,

JANUARY TERM, -1845.

581--

The United States v.Presoott et- aL

and that he ued ordinafy care in keeping the same, are good rlas,"
and excuse his liability.
2., The words " keep'safely," in sect. 6 of the act of-July, 18")
and in the condition of the bond declared on, following the o d
of the act, do not alter or extend the liabilityi, .Qferiise impgsed
by'law.
1st. They do not by .the ordinary meaning -and acceptation c
the terms.
In, the construction to be given to words, they are to be received
according to their ordinary meaning and import, 'or such ideaning"
as is given to them- by'the common sense and 'understandipg, of,
mankind. In this s-nse no oher.constuuction, can be-given to the
word,srkeep safely," than-to keep with that degree df safety whia,
prudent men ordinariy exercie, where safety is required; the.vomon sense of manldnd.would c6nstrue.it to .rdean re 0nable safety.
When A. accepts to keei -safely, the meaning he would be apt to
give to thi contract, (snppbsing no judiciazaeaing ihad beeurgiven
to the -words,) Wduld be, 'sqchreas'onable safety as i the exfrcise or
prudence, heand 'other mewought, uhder the' circumstances ofthe
case, to.ise; and this is exactly the degree of dilifcence -or care
required in the contradt of bailbent called "locatio cwodiei. IThe words " keep saetly," therdfore,-considered,it their ordf ary
and comon"acceptatiqn, do not .ary the usual liability of' a depositary for hire., c stru t o
w. Judicial cnstrncion has not givenahigher, meanig -tothese
words.
In Sutot
case, 46.
83,84, the. plaintiff
ddi ed
goods to the defendant to be byhim-safelykept" The plea was, that
they were stolen out of-the possession of -the defendant alid, judg; °
ment.was givefi becausethe. goods were to b6 safely kept. The plda,
however,. was defectite in, not avetring that they were stolen wiftout his default,- or that. he used o6rdinary eare and- d'iigeride, and
thei being bvidence of ordinary neglect according to-Sir Wni.
Jones, (although this is ndw doubted,) it would be presinmed 'that
the defendant h~d bed gua~t of ordinary- neglect, ahd this is in
_accordance .witl-the opinion of-Sir Wim. Jones in commenting upon.
this case, (Jones'on Bail. p.'43, origi-al editj.n,) -where.he says:
"If the plainti s ed of replyin g, had demured tor theplea
-i
bar, he-might havie insiktd. in argumei~t, with reasbni-O~d law onhis .side, that, althougli-a general' bailee to. keep U~ responsible for.
-neglect only, yet Bennet had,- by a speciaY! acceptance, madehimself answerable for ordinary neglect at -least;,that it was, ordixnary
neglect to let the goods be stolen out of his, pos~essio%-* and lEa had
not averred that they were, sfolen 'witholit his default;" thereby inti<!
mating,.that if such hLverment'had beeirmade in Southicote's-case,
the plea would' have been good. In the present case the pleas coitain such averments. '
'
3-c 2
-

-gross

582-

SUPREMO, Co UIfTo
The United States v. Prescott et aL

The words. keep safely, ' then, by Southeote's cqse, and, in the
opinion of Jones, meant to bind the depositary to ordinary diligence
only.
The case of Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Ld. Raym. 909, by the'opinion
of Ld- Holt and the majority of the court, is to the same. effect.
The question in pbint, decided, ;was, .1that if a man undertake
to carry goods safely and securely, he is responsible for any damage
through his neglect, although he was not a common carrier, and
was to.have nothing for the:carriage." (See 1st marginal note.)
The inference to be drawn is, if there was no neglect, he -was not
liablei
In commenting on the effect of the undertadng"' to keep and.
carry safely," the judges who delivered opinions- in this case differed. Lord Holt, who delivered'the celebrated opinion which has
been the foundation of the modem Jaw of bailment, and which is
entitled tothe most consideration, together with all the other judges;
(except Powell, J.) held, (as is r~m rked by Judge Story, Corn. on
Bail. sect. 3b, 2d edition,) 1 that upon a promise by a bailee; without reward to keep or-carry safely, he is not responsible for injuries
or losses occasioned by the acts of wrong-doers, and clfrtri that
he is not responsible &ora theft not caused bylis own neglect." -In
the same section, Judge Stoy xemarks, "1Mr .Justice Powys, and
Mr. Justice: Gould; seem to have agreed in opiniou with Lord Holt."
By referring to the .opinion of the judges in this case, the same doctrine will be found. , Lord Holt says, (2 Ld. Raym. 915,) "Nay,
suppose the bailee undertakes safely and securely to keep the goods,
in express words, yet even that 'wont charge him'with all softs of,
neglect. For if such a promise ere put into writing; it would not.
charge'so far even then. .. .And. if a promise will not charge a
man against wrong-do6rs, when put in writing, it is hard it should
do' it more so when spoken. Doct.and. Stud. 130,*is in point, that
though a bailee do promise to redeliver goods safely, yet'if he have
nothing for the keeping of them, he will not be answerable for the
acts of a wrong-doer.o So that there is neither sufficient reason or
authority to support the opinion in Southpote's ease; if the bailee be
guilty of gross negligence, he vill be chargeable, but not for any ordinary neglect." See 2 Ed. Rayni. 914 and 915; Lord Holt's comwent on Southcote's cas6. In the same case, Gould, J., agreeing
with Lord Holt, ays,'(2 Ld. lym. p. 909,) "1So if goods are deposited with a friend, and are stolen'from him, no action will lie.
But if a man undertakes. expressly to do such a fact, safely and
securely, if the thing bdqaes to any'damage by his miscamage, an
action will lie against him.?' And again, (p. 910,) "But when a
man undertakes especially to do such a thing,. it is not hard to charge
him for his neglect, because he had the goods committed to his custody upon those terms.?' It is apparent" by the reasoning of these.
judges, that they intended to place the liability in the case of a spe:'"

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

583

The United, States v. Prescott et al.

cial contract to keep safely, upon the neglect or miscairage of the
depositary, and that he would not be liable for the acts of wrongdoers, without his default; and this was fhe opinion of Lord Holt
and all- the -other judges; except Powell, J. See Story" on Bail.
sect. 35.
It is true that Powell, J., in the same case, says, (p. 910,) "The
party's special as~umpsit and undertaking obliges him so to do the
thing, that the bailor come to .no damage by his neglect, and the
bailee in this case shall answer accidents, as if the goods are stolen,
but not such as happen by the act of God ;" but from the reference
made to the case of the ferryman, immediately after, he-was probably alluding t? the case of the common carrier. 'But, at any rate,
the reason assigned by him for' the liability of the blailee in case of
accidents, as in case the- goods are stolen, viz., that the -bailee has
a remedy against the wrong-doers, as an appeal of robbery, or action igainst the hundred, is Unsatisfactory: It might furnish a reason in England, where a speedy and certain remedy is given for the.
man robbed, by a special action on the case against the hundred for
damages equivalent to his loss unless they make hue and cry after
the felon, and take him, which excuses thbm.- 3 Black. Coin.
160. But no such remedy e3;ists here. And it is to be observed,
that the reason given by Powell, J., was probably altogether wrong.
Sir Win. Jones expresses his disapprobation as, follows, (Jones on
.Bail. 44, orig. el.;) "Mr. Justice Powell, speaking of Southcote's case, which he denies to be law, admits that ' if a mah does
undertake specially to'keep, goods safely, that is a warranty, and
will oblige.the bailee to keep* them safely against perils, where he
has a remedy over, but not against'those where he has no remedy
over.$ One'is unwilling to suppose that this learned judge had iot
read Lord Coke's report with attention; yet the base which he puts.is precisely that which he'opposes, for Bennet did undertake to keep
the goods safely;'and with submissionthe degree of care demanded,
not the remedy over, is the true measure of the obligation, for the
bailee might hav his appeal of robbery. Yet he is not bound to
'keep 'thegoods against robbers without a most.express agreement."
Jones on Bail. 44.
In 2 Black. Com. 452, the same construction is given to the
words "keep safely anid securely," viz., " l i e is bound to take the
same care of them as a prudent man would bf his own," i. e. re.sonable care. And the case of Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Ld. Raym.
909, is cited, and the law is spoken of as settled.
Finnucane v. Small, 1 Espinasse R. 315, was a case in -which the
depositary received pay, and he was' held, by the- opinion of Lord
Kenyon, to be liable only for ordinary neglect. In this cise the
property had been stolen from thb depositary.
The American authorities are to the same effect.
Foster v. The Essex Bank, 17 Mass. Rep. 479, was a case of de-

584

$UPREME C.OURT.
The United S~tes-t. Prescott et.al,'

posit of gold in a bank, under ,a memo. signed by the cashier, thai
it was "left -for safe keeping;" the court, (Parker, J.,) delivered an
elaborate -opinion, and reasons on the nature 'of the undertaking to
keep safely in a very full' and sati~fadtory manner, (see pages 499,
500, 501 and 502,) showing that the contract to keep safely, in the
case of a'simple dep6sitary, extends his liability to ordinary neglect,
.and in the case of a depositary foi hire, the principle goes.non-arther
than libili y for ordinary neglect; f Iso'that if he -shows-that he-used
due care, and nevertheless the goods. were stolen, he would be ex-.
cused." 17 Mass. Rep. 502.
. iDane's Abr. chap. 17, 'art. 11, sect. 3, lays down the.-same
.doctrine.
Judge Stoy,i(Story on Bail. sects. 70, 71, 2d editioi,) evidently leans -to the sanie doctrine, where he says that "there is much to
warrant the suggestion that in a case where the bailment is to keep
-saf ly 'the-d&,ositry-we uld-not -be-liahl.ora.loss by theft, unless
it soould ise-from his-wa-negligere,.and want of due diligence
and care.
.- Chancellor Kent (2 Kent's Cam. 563, note d, 3d edition) alludes
to the: decigion in 17 Mass. Rep. 479, with approbation.
The great weight of authority, then, both in, Et'gland afid in this
country, supports the doctrine, that under the contract to keep safely, the depositary-would not be liable for -a theft committed, without
his default, and-that in such case he is only liable for ordinary dill.gence.
The case relied on, thiefly, on -the other side, is.
a -dictum of
'Lord Chief Justice Willes, Kettle v. Bromsall, Willes R. 118,),.wher&
he speaks of the liability of the depositary to keep safely, in case he
is robbed of the goods. But it is to be observed that this is said as
being according-to Souit]lcofe'-case, the case of Coggs v.Bemard."
Willes R. 121. It ishardly conceivable how the judge, who delivered the opinion in Kettle v. BroMsall, could have fallen into such
error, for the first huthority cited by him, (Soiithcote case,) had
been expressly overruled in the last authority cited, (Cbggs v,Bernard ;) and in the last case, Lord Holt and the majority o the court,
dissenting from. Southcote's case, lay-down a contrary rule; (as we
have shown above,) viz.: that the depositary would 'not be liable
for 'the acts 'of wrong-doers, without his.default.
. Chancellor Kent says, in the note 'above referred to, that the doctrine in Kettle v. Broinsall, Willes R. 118; and in Southcote's case,
"is held to be exploded in the case. of Foster v. Essex Bank?'
. A distinction has soihetimes been taken between a los by theft,.
and a loss by robbery, from the last being considered irresistible,
and'the former hot so. But see, as to this, Story on Bail: sect. 39,
2d edition, -where the distincti6n is refuted; and it is held that "no
degree of vigilance will always secure a party.froln losses by theft;"
&c.) &c.

JANUARY TERM; 1845.

5

The United States v. Prescott et al.

When the contract isa special acceptance, the taking a reward
can make no difference in the construction of it.
It is to be observed that where there is a special c6ntractto
"keep safely," the contract is expounded according to the meaning
of t.he terms themselves, without inquiring whether a reward was
paid or iot. The acceptbice is a sufficient consideration for the
promise to-keep, safely, as was deterpnined by the' case in point in
Coggs v. Bernard, (see'first mar. note';) and in that case the court
decided that the bailee, to keep or carry safely, is liable for ordinary
negligence, without inquiring whether he.received a reward or not.
None was averred in tl~e declaration, and there might or might not
have been one.
In Hargrave and Butler's note to 2 Co. 'Lit. vf. 78, it is said, in
reference to the decision in the case of. Coggs v. Bernard, that "1it
was wholly grounded on a special undertaking to-carry safely, with.:
out stating either that the defendant was-to have hire or was a common tarer." -In gving an exposition, therefore, to the contract
"to keep safely," it makes no difference whether a reward was
paid or not. It is the special acceptance that makes the party
bound, to ordinary diligence and lable for ordinary neglect.
Agin, In the contract "1tp keep safely,"'it is the special acceptance (without inquiring into a reward or not) that makes the party
bourid to ordinary diligence; and in the ordinary contract of a depositary for a reward, it is the reward that puts the party to ordinary
diligence. Story on Bail. sect. 442; Jones on Bail. 49, 91, 98,
99, original ea. The liability, therefore, of the special depositary
td keep-safely, and of the depositary for a reward, is'the same; and
if the depositary for a reward accepts. specially, the receiving the
reward cannot put him to greater diligence than what the -law determines that fact shall put a depositary to. which is ordinary diligence, (Story on Bail. sect. 442,) and nothing more.
The cases and authorities that expound the'meaning of the words
"keep safely," speak of them generally in eferenceto the contract
of depositum, or naked -bailment without ieward; (Story on Bail.
sect. 33, the'opinion of the judges in Coggs v. Bernard, in relation to tbesL words altering the responsibility in case of naked bailment;
Southcote's case, 2 Black. Coin, 452;. 17 Mass. Rep. 479 ;)
and as enlarging
the responsibility from slight dilige'nce, in such case,
to ordinary diligence. If the cases and authorities are silent as to
the effect of these words in the case of other bailees, suc'i-as~ the
depositary, for hire, common carrier, &c., it is becase, in these
S-cases, their ordinary-legal liability i the same, or more extensive,
than the words "keel5 safely" import, requiring ordinary diligence
in.some, and extraordinary diligence in others. No one would
contend that "these words enlarged the. responsibility of a common
carrier, who is liable for more than, what they -would import, viz.,
for all "losses except "by the act of God, or the king's enemies;" .
VOL., lII.-74

"SUPREME qOURT.
The United States v. Prescott et al.

neither should .it e contended that they enlarge the responsibility
of the bailee for hire, whose usual legal responsibility is the same
as .*hat the special acceptance in the case of simple deposit has'
be e4 decided to .be viz., ordinary diligence. These words only
make a difference in the case of depositum, or naked bailment, because the -usual liability in that case, for gross neglect only, is inconsistent with safe keeping., And this agrees witlr Sir William Jones,
(p. 61, original ed.) where he says, in remarking on the opinion of
Powell, J., in Coggs v. Bernard, "Now the reason assigned, by the
learnd judge for the cases in the register and 'year-books, which
were the same with Coggs 's. Bernard, viz.,4he party's special assumpsit, obliged him so -to do the thing that the bailor come to no
damage by his neglect, -seems to-intimate that the -omission of the
words salvo et secur would have made a difference in this case, as
in that of a deposit, but'I humbly contend that-those words are implied by the nature of a cbntract which lies in feasance," &c. In
the present case-the duty of the receiver, for which he" is paid,-lies
in feasance, for he is to'xeceive, keep, trarsfer, and pay out, and do'
all other acts,-as fiscal agent, which may be imposed on him by
law; or the directions of the Treasury Department, (sect. 6' act of
1840.)
• By section 12, of the act of 4th July, 1840, government-agents
are required to examine "the money on-hand and the manner of its
being kept;" -and by section 13, the register is required to examine
and report, from time to time, the condition of the mohey on hand
with the receiver; and by section 14,the officersmaybe allowed
for fire-proof chests,, vaults, &c., for safe-keeping, to be expressly
authorized by the secretary of the Treasury, whose -directions, &c.,
are to be strictly followed."
The law, then, vests -tje discretion of the safe-keeping, in a measure, in governmeit agents, and in the secretary of the Treasury,
.1whose directions are to be strictly followed." If, then, the secretary of the'Treasury has directed the money, -dep sited:with the re'ceiver, to be plac.ed in a particular place, vault, &c., and it is stolen
there; or, if the government 4gent, hafing- examined "the manner
of its being kept h is satisfied, and so reports, and still the money is
.stolen; the receiver, in either case, would not be liable, without his
default; Story on Bail. sebt. 74, 2d ed.; "ifthe depositor agree tfiat the
* goods may-be kept-in a particularplace, &c., he cannot object afterwards that the place is not a safe one." And non, constat buf that,
' in the present case, the money had been 'directed to be kept in the
particular place where it was stolen, nor but that the gbvernment
agent had examined "the manner of its being kept," and reported
it to be safe; in either of which cases the defendant, without his own
default, would not be liable.
Finally, it may be said that government requires nothing unreasonable from its officers. If, as inl-the case of th EsSex Bank;

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
The United States v. Prescott et al.

where $53,000 of gold was deposited, under d memo., for safekeeping, and who might be considered in the ligbt of a p'xblic depositary, and where considerations of public policy', in return for the
extraordinary privileges conferred on the bank, were entitled to all
their weight, the bank was held to ordinary neglect only, why should
greater responsibility be thrown on a receiver of public money?
Ch. J. Parker, in that case, 17 Mass. Rep. 501, says, "and this certainly is the moie reasonable doctrine, for the common understanding
of a promise to keep safely, would bethatthe party-would use due diligence and care to prevent the loss or.accident; Ind there is no.breach
of faith or trust, if, notwithstanding such care, the goods should be
spoiled or purloined." A contrary doctrine to this would beunrersonable. It would also be against public policy; for, if the receiver
is to be held liable, when money is stolen from him without his default, having-used due diligence ant care in the safe-keeping, men
of common prudence and responsibility would cease to become his
sureties, since they would make themselves responsible, not merely
for his prudence, good faith, and honesty, in keeping money, but
sureties against the cunning, dishonesty, and villany, of all mankind.
Mr. Justice MCLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Circuit Court for the district of
Illinois, on a bond given by Prescott, with the other defendants as
his sureties, for his faiiliful performance of the duties of receiver of
public moneys, at Chicago, i the 'stateef. Illinois. The defence
pleaded Was, that-the sum not paid over by the defendant; Prescott,
and for which the action was brought, had been feloniously stolen,
taken, nd carried away, from his possession, by some person or
persons unknown to him, and without any fault or negligenceon his
part; and.he avers that he used ordinary care and diligence in keeping said money, and preventing it from being stolen.
To this plea, the plaintiffs iled a general demurrer; and on the
argument of the demurrer, the opinions of the judges'were opposed
on the question, whether "the felonious taking and carrying away
the public moneys in the- custody of a receiver' of public moneys,
without any fault or negligence on his part, discharged him and his
sureties, and may be set up as a defence to an action on his official
bond ?" And this point is now before this court, it having been.
certified.to'us under the act of Congress.
On the part of the defendant it is contended that t~he defendantPrescott, was a depositary fdr hire; and that unless his liability was
enlarged by the special contract t' keep sfely, he is only subject to
the liabilities indposed by la* upon such a depositary; that the, special contract does not enlarge his liability.
• This is not a case of bailment, and, consequently, 'the law of bailment does not apply to it. Th liability of the defendant, Prescott,
arises out of his official bond, and principles which ark founded upon

58

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Pres.c'ott et aL

public. policy. The conditions of-the bond. are, that the' said Prescott has "1truly and faithfully executed and dischargea, and shall
truly and faithfully continue to execute and discharge, all the duties
of said office," (of receiver of public moneys at Chicago,) " according
to the laws of the United States; and moreover-has well, truly, and
faithfully, and shall well, truly, and fhithfully,.k~ep safely, without
loaning ot usig,'all the public moneys ollected by him, 6r otherwise at any time placed in his possession and custody, till the same
such
had been
or should be ordered, by the proper department or officer
of the government, to'be transferred or paid out; and when
orders for transfer or paymeut..had.been
or should
be anid
received,
had.
promptly
faithfully
and would
made, &u.s
•faithfully and promptly
drendd
as
defendant,
he
same,
as
the
broken,
mak,
been
when reThe condition of~the b'nd'has"
the money received byhim,
Presott,. failed to pay over
be exone"quired to do so; ad the questioi± is,"whether e shall the iraoney
that
ground"
the
bond,'on
his
of
rated from the condition
had-been stolen from hini?
The objection to this defence is, that it is not within the condition
contract
of the bond; and t is would seem to be conclusive.' beThe
suharged
d
on
failure
of
Prescott
isno'allegation
can
there
and
o his part, ba, then,
intogovernment;
entered
was
of the
the part
nby the
when he
of hisofobli~atioi,
ths ob lgtion
He knew the extent
tg'e fruits
from his'b'ond?
tered into it, and he has realized
principle, on
is no'liability,conThere from
he be gdischarged
theofie.
under
enjoyment
express Shall
to hisofown
trary
to .keep
which suh a defence can be sustained. The obligation express
:s~ey 'te public-money is absolute,.-ithout any conition,
can
and" iothing but the payment of it, when required,
implied;the'bond.
or
Rep. 479
discharge
Mass.
17
Bank,
Essex
The
v.
principle
the ase o Foster et aL
and of course dos not apply in
wasa mere nakd bailment,in that casdwas for the accommodation
cot
to this case. Th deosit
advantage to the bank, as the
.the depositor, and wtout "any
whatever
control
to increase its liability. No
say, "which can tend gold
was ft with the bank or
it,
in
containe.
the
of
of the chest or
of trust to have opened the
It would havebeen areach
nedrs.
o
its
chest, or to inspect its contents."
of thepubll bmoney
oPublirequires that every depositary
policy
only that he slhoud
Not
accountability.
t " sh ou l d ikee p
should be held to sta strict
a
h
t
t
'
b
f i g i ti
d e e neo
e er cie te ci g e
be pracmight
of.
whichAny
rel'xatioi
hands..
frauds
door foto.h's
the. moneys
opii a 6me
safely"
iwould whch
is coditon
do
to his
moreish
to stab
nothig
havesoas
would
"proofs,
impuhity..
rand his
tisedt with
arrange
plans A depositary
his-nto
to
layee
be.applied
enip
pr
a
eson hs part: L et such
fthu glach
ublic
f'
oss,
o
of the customs,- reciovers
our edost~asters, collectors

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

689

Permoli v. First Municipality.

moneys, and others who receive more or less of the public funds,
and what losses might not be anticipated by the public? No such
principle has been recognised or admitted as a legal defence. And
it is believed th6 instances are few, if indeed any can- be found,
where any relief has been given in such cases by the interposition of
Congress.
As every depositary receives the office with a full knowledge of
its responsibilities, he cannot, in case of lossi complain of hardship.
He must stand by his bond, and meet the hazards which he voluntarily incurs.
The question certified to us is answered, that the defendant, Prescott, and his sureties, are not discharged from the bond, by a felonious stealing of the money, without any fault or negligence on the
part df the depositary;- and, consequently, that no such defence to
'the bond can be made.

BzRN,&R

PERMOLJ, PLAIIFF IN ERROR, v. Mumcxp~
rry No.' I oF
THE Crrf oF NEw ORLE .Ns,DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Thi c~drt has not jurisdiction, under the 25th section of the Judiciary-Act, of
a 4uestion whether an ordinance fthe corporate authorities of Mew Orleans
does or does not impair religions liberty.
The Constitution of the United States rafes-no provision for protecting thecitizens bf-the respective staths in their religious liberties; this i.leR to the

state constitutions ana laws.

The act of February 2t4b, 1811; authorizing the pebple of the territory.of.
Orleans to form a constitution.and tate government, cdntained, in the-third7
section theriof, two provisoes; one in the riature of instructions howthe constitution was to be formed, and the other, reserving to the United States the
property in the public lands, their txemption from state taxation, and the
oommon right to-navigate thd Ihississippi.
The first of these provisoes was fully satisfied by the abt of 1812, admitting
Louisiana into the union, "on an equal footing with the original states.'
The conditions nd terms referred to ini
the act of admission referred solely
to the second proviio, involving rights of property and 'iavigation.
The act of 1805, cbap. 83, .xtdfiding to theinhabitants of the Orleans territory
the rights, privileges and aavantages secured to the :North Western terridfor:
by the ordinance of 1787, had no further force after the adoption of the state
constitution of Louislana, than other i£cts-of Congress, organizing the teri.
torial governmdnt,-and standiag in connection with the ordinance. They are
none or thdm*in force unless'they, were adopted by the state constituion.

Tins case .was brouli± up by writ Qf error, under the 25th section
of the Judiciary Act, from the City Cort bf NeW Oleans,. the
highest appellate court in t"sate to which the question could be
carried..
-In1842i the defendaits in error passed the following ordinance.~

