JANUARY TERM, 1845.

763

Wilson & Co. v. Smith.

Wilcox and Jickson, 13 Peters, 511, and the case of Elliott and
others v. Piersol and others, referred to, and the decision approved.
These cases being decisive bf the question of jurisdiction, we deem it unnecessary to refer to any other authority on that point. From
the view we have taken of the whole subject, it is our opinion, the
decree of the Supreme Court of Mississippi would have been no bar
--to the action of the plaintiffs in this case, if the suiject-matter of
the stit had been within its jurisdiction. ' -But we are of the opinion,
that court had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and that the'
whole proceeding is a nullity. The Circuit Court erred, therefore,
in permitting the record to be read to the jury, a evidence for any
purpose whdtever. Wherefore the judgment of the Circuit C6urt
is reversed.-

THoxAs W1fsoN A D COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS, V. HORACE SMITH,
DEFENDANT.
Whenever,.by express agreement of the parties, a sub-agent is to be employed
by an agent to receive money for the principal; or where an authority to do
so may fairly be-implied from the usual course of trade, or the nature of the
transaction; the principal may treat the sub.agent is his agent, and when he
has received the mohey, may recover it in an action for money had and re-.
ceived.
'If, in sach case, the sub-agent has made.no advances and given no new credit
to the agent on account of the remittance of the bill,,the sub-agent cannot
protect himself against such an action by passing the amount of the bill to
the general credit of the agent, although the agent may be his debtor.

THis case came up on a certificate of division in opinion between
the judges of the Circqit Court of the United, States for the district
'of Georgia,
The record being very short, it will be inserted entire.-'
"This was an action of assumpsit brought. in this court by the
plains, to recover from the defendafit the sum of eiglit hundred:
dolhrs and interest, being the amount of a drai-'or bill of exchange
drawn by one He6ry B. Holcombe, of Augusta, in the state of
Georgia, upon one Charles F. Mills, of Savannah, in said state, ahd
.accepted by him, and paid to the defendant. The declaration contained two Counts. The first 9vs for' money collected and received.
by the defendant.to aid for the use of the plaintiffs, upon the par-"
ticular bill, of exchange set"out and -4escribed in the declaration;
the second count -was generally for money had and teceived. The
plea of non-assumpsit was pleaded'by the defbndant in bar of the
action, 'it being proved that the draft or bill of' e~change 'upon
which the money was collected and received by the defendant was
the property of the plaintiffs;' that it had been by.them placed in the
hands' of their agent, David W. St. Joth% at Augusta, Gborgia, for

764

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson & Co. v. Smith.

eollection, and by him, St. John, forwarded to the defendant, St.
John's agent, at Savannah, Georgia, for acceptance and collection;
that it was accepte'd and paid to the defendant, by whom the proceeds
were received and credited to the account of St. John, from whom
the defendant received the draft or bill for collection, and who was
indebted to the defendant at the time. . That at the time the said bill
was so paid to the defendant, and by him credited to the. account
of St. John, he, St. John, had failed in business, and had departed
this life; that-he failid, and had not recovered his affairs at,the. time
of his death, and was insolvent; that the credit for the amount of
the bill, carried by the defendant to St. John's account, was made
in payment of a previously, existipg debt due by St. John to the defendant, no new transaction having arisen between the defeiidant and
St. John after the payment of the said bill to the defendant; cthiat to
secure the payment of his debt to the defendant, St. John had transferred to the defendant three hundred shares of the capital stock of
the Augusta Insurance and Banking Company, upon which $100 per
share had been paid; that the defendant appeared satisfied with ths
.securitX, and that St. John would then have given additional security
had the defendan required it.' That the draft or bill of exchange
was made payable to the order, of Henry B. Holcombe, the drawer,
and by him endorsed in blank, and endorsed -by St. John to H.
Smith, Esq., (the defendant,) or order. That When the- draft was
sent to the defendant for collection he was not appiized to whom it
belonged, nor were afiy.instructions or directions given to him as to
the disposition of the money when collected.
" The following point was presented, during the progress of the
trial for the opinion of the judges; on which the judges were opposed
in opinion, viz.: Whether there was such pnvity of contract between the plaintiffs and defendant, either express or implied, as
would enable the plaintiffs to maintain the action for money had and
received.
",Which said point, upon which the disagreement has happened,
is stated above, under the -direction of the judges of the said court,
at the request of the counsel for the parties in the cause, and ordered
to be certified into the Supreme Court of the United States at the
next session, pursuant to the act of Congress in such case made and
provided."
Berrien, for the plaintiffs.
elson,-(attorney-general,) for the defendant.
Berrien. The question is, whether there is such a privity, of contract between the plaintiff and defendant, either express or implied,
as will enable the plaintiff to sustain the action for money had and
receiyed.
It is not necessary that the relations of contract should exist
between the parties.

JANUARY TPRM, 184.

765

Wilson & Co. v. Smith.

There are many cases in which the defendant has received the
money bf plaintiff, under circumstances which would render him
liableex delicto, in which plaintiff is permitted to waive the tort, and
sue in thit action. 1 Leigh's N. P. 45, 4.
Wherever defendant
has received money, the property of-plaintifs, which defendant is
bound ex aquo et bono to refund, it may be recovered in this action.
Moses v. McFarlane, 2 Burr. 1012. The true question is the right
of plaihtiffto receive, or of defendant to retain the- money.
In.the eye of the law, there is always such privity of contract as
is necessary to sustain this action, between a person who holds the
money of another, which in equity and good conscience he is bound
to refund, and the person whose money is thus withheld. Camp v.
Tompkins, 9 Conn. Rep. 553.
Again. Where one has received the money of another, and .has
not the right to retain it, the law will imply privity of contract.
Masofn v. Waite, 17 Mass. Rep. 560-;. Hall v. Marston, 17 Mass.
Rep. 575.
Two propositions may be laid down.
1. On the facts stated, Smith, defendant, was the agent of plain-tiffs, bound to account to them, on notice of their claim; and, therefore, the 5mount collected 'by him was money had and received to
their use.
2. That his ignorance of the real owner of the bifl cannot affect
the right of plaintiffs to -ecover in this action on notice and proof
of their title, so long as defendant stands .in is 6riginal situation,
and until there has been a change of circumstances, by his having
paid over the moneyto his immediate employer, or done somethiig
equivalent to it.
-1, Smith, the defendant, was the agent of plaintifi . The case
states,-1st. That the bill.was the property of plaintiffs.
2d. That it was collected by defendant, who received it from St.
John, the agent of plaintiffs.
On this state of facts, did the necessary privity exist? or, in other
words, had defendafit the right, to retain after notice of plaintiffs'
claim?
It is objected that delegated power cannot be delegated without
authority for that puipose,'because it implies trust and confidence,
which cannot be assigned to a stranger.: That the sub-agent has no
claim upon the principal, for commissions, advances, &c., ,therefore
is under no responsibility to him, his sole remedy being against his
immediate employer, and therefore that his sole responsibility is to
him. For qualifications of-the rule, see Story on Agency, sect. 14,
p. 16.
Authority implied.
Licensed auctioneer.--I. When indispensable by the laws to aczomplish the end.

766

SUPREME .dOURT
Wilson & Co. v. Sinith.

.Ship-broker.-2.. Ordinary usage of trade.
Factor -3. Where.uiderstood-hy parties-as.the mode in'which
th6'business would 6r liiglit be done..
- The authority exclusively personal, unless from express provision,
,legal necessity, usage of trade, or-fair presumptions growing out of
particular transaction, abroader power-was intended to be conferred.
Story on Agency, sect. 14, p. 17.
Test the present case, by this rule, thus qualified.'
A foreign house, holding a bill drawn on a citizenl of Savannah,
in' Georgia, has a correspondent At Augusta, in the same state, to
whom he Temits it for collection, and by whom it .i sent to his or'
respondent in Savannah, where-the drawee resides.
Is this not conformable to the usual course of such transactions?
Conld -plaintiffs have expected that St. John, abandoning his own
place of business, should have repaired to the distant residence of
the drawee, to present this bill personally? Would not the remittance of it there, to his correspondent, be "understood by the parties, to be the mode in which this particular business would or might
be. dond ?" Was St. John bound- to do more than select a compe•tent and trust-worthy agent to rece6ve the contents of the bill? If
with the bill he. had stated plaintiffs' interest, would any have
doubted that defendant would have been the agent of plaintiffs in
this matter-? and does this not seitle the right to delegate his autho-rity? What effect.withholding that information.would have, will
be considered hereafter.
.
It. suffices at present, in order to sustain the first'position, to show,
that this 'bill was dealt-with according to the usual mode of-tran6s
acting such business. That in appointing a sub-ag it, St. John did
no more than plaintiffs designed and intended. If so, defendant was
a ent of plaintiffs, by an authorized substitution; .an authority.ia-"
plied from the circumstances, and as strong as.if -expressly given;
and, as thei± agent, is, therefore, directly accountable to them for the
money'received under that agency, as money had and received to
their use.
2. Defendant's ignorance of the real owner of the bill, and St.
John's.prior indebtedness to him, cannot iffect plaintiffs' right fo
recover, unless, before notice of their -claim, defendant had made
advances to St. John, or delayed his pri6rfund.
claim against
him,'?ely"
on this
ing for reimbursement or payment
Si. John, in remitting the bill, did not state that p]aiitiffs were
owners of it. He was indebted to defendant, who, on receiving its
contents,' credited him in account, 'and now claims to' retain the
money of plaintiffs; in payment of the debt due to him by St. John.
The defendant's having passed -the money, in iccount, cannot
-affect this question ; .Buyer v. Harrisofi, Cowp. Rep. 565;,Coxe v.
Prentice, 3 M'aule & Selw. 348. Lord Ellenborougsays,:'I"takeit
that an agent who receives money for. his principal, is liali ai a

JANUARY TERM, 184.

767

Wilson & Co. v. Smith.

principal so long as he stands in his original situation, and until
there has been a change of ciicumstances," &c., &c.
This money is, therefore, to be considered as ii the hands of defendant, without any disposition having been made of it. Defendant's
want of knowledge'that the money belonged to the plaintiffs, cannot
affect their right after notice and proof of their title. De V61enginle
Adni'r v. Duify, 14 Peters, 282, 290. This was a case where money
was r~ceived by an.administrator, as property'belonging to his intestate, though it belonged in fact to. another. The court said, that
C the want of knowledge, or the possession of knowledge, on the
part of the administrator, as to the rights or claims of other persons,
on the money thus received, cannot alter the rights of the -party to
whom it is ultimately due."
Somnething more is necessary to enable a sub-agent to retain for
his general balance against his immediate- employer, than his "mre
want of knowledge of tle real. principal. Story on Agency, sects.
,389, 390, pp. 481,483, and the authorities there cited. The. lien
exis6 for advances made, and (as it seems) for his general balance.
But *by ? The reason is given. It is the presumption that the
advances were made, or the demand delayed, relying. on the credit
of the fund allowed to remain in his hands. No advances were
made in this case. Defendant did not rely on this fund for the payment of his demarid. He did not delay it. That demand was prior,
and had been secured to the satisfaction of defendant by a pledge
of bank stock.
When St. Johni failed, and the security became (as is to be presumed) inadequate, then, for the first time, defendant looked to this
fund, but he had undertaken the agency without any such reliance.
The presumption is, therefore, negatived by the facts of the case ;
The Bank Metrop. v. New England.Bank, 1 How. Rep. 234. This
will probably berelied on. The court held:
1. That the paper in question continued the property of the New
England Bank, notwithstanding the endorsement, these having been
maade to enable'the agent to collect.
2. Tlat a long cours6 of dealing and repeated settlements in conformity to it, in which the parties were mutually credited with the
proceeds of bills remitted by them, balances being suffered fb remain, until they were reduced by the proceeds of bills and notes
deposited, made this case the same in principle as if money had
been advanced on the paper deposited.
The court said there was no difference in principles,'between an
advance of money, and a balance suffered to remain upon the faith
-ofthese mutual dealings.
,The case under consideration is unaccompanied by any of these
.circumstances.- Here there was no advance made,'or.demand delayed in reliance upon this fund ; or any course of dealing and
usage founded upon it, by which balances were suffered" to remain

M_

SUPREME °COURT.
Wilson & Co. v. Smith.

undrawn for, looking to reimbursement from: the proceedg of bills or
notes to be collected, which would be deemed equivalent, as in that
case, to advances actually made.
./elson, (attorney-general,) for the defendant.

The bill was drawn by Holcombe on Mills, accepted by Mills,
and endorsed by Holcombe, and sent to Augusta. for collection.
All that was necessary was for St. John to endorse it in blank, but
he endorsed it specially to Smith. In this state of the case, whose
agent was Smith? to whom would he have written to give information of the-payment-or non-payment of.the bill? Certainly to St.
John, -who would have compelled him to pay over the money. A
defence by Smith, that -he was not the proper person to be paid,
wQuld not have been listened to. A sub~agent'can be treated, and
in this case Smith must have been the agent of St. John. The
question of agency must settle that of privity of contract. Story on
Agency, 395 to 400, where the subject is discussed.
A agent is res'ponsible only to his employer. Paley's Agency, 48;
1 Livermore on Agency, 64, 65, 66.; 6 Taunt. 148; 1 Vesey, jun.,
291, 292; where a son was employed as sub-agent by his father,
who was agent, and.it.was held that the son could not be an accounting p.rty to the owner of the mine, because there was no pri-vity. ' 14 East, 582; 1 Crompton & Jervis,'83; 3 Barn.& Ad. 354;
4 Ibid. 375; 2 Campbell, 123.
It is said, by the other side, that usage must govern. This is admitted. But hat usage orfacts does the -record show? Not that
Smith was a factor or broker, but only that he was a'creditor of St.
John. The court cannot presume-usage, and there-is nothing in the
record to show it.
. What are the respective equities of the -parties?. The action for
-money had aid received is analogous to a bill in equity. Suppose
&at he bill had belonged to St. John,. ould he have claimed to
receive the. amount of it whilst he was a debtor? The creditor had
-a right to apply he fund to pay himself. It is admitted that if Smith
.hhdforborne t6 press St. John for the amount of this debt, he would
have a right.to retain the amount of this bill. But the plaintiff, .by
his acts, has been .the. cause of lulling Smith into- a false security.
Story, 483, 484.
Where a party may be supposed to rely on a-particular security,
it is enough. :Case of New England Bank, 1 How. 234, .
The death 6f St. John does not defeat the lien. Story' on Agency, 378 to-388, authorities -collected.
It is a'general rule, that where a factor holds ,property as his own,
-the'real owner cannot come in and -claim, where third persons are
concerned, having claims upon the agent. "5Taunt. 56; 2 Bell's
Comm. sect. 807 to 812; Chitty's Commercial Law, 544; 545, 546i
9 Bell's Comm. 789 to -06. -

JSANU'ARY-TERM, 1845.

709

Wilson & Co. v. Smh. -.

Berrien, in reply.
The controversy here is not about-general principles, but their
application. The cases in Taunton and -6Veseyestablish, that between a sub-agent and principal-there is no privity. --I do not denythe existence of the general rule'which these cases support, but say
that there are exceptions-to the rule, of which this isone. (Mr. Berri*n here examined the cases.) One of the exceptions is, where it is
manifest that some other person would be employed.
As to the equitiesa'of the parties.-- -Shall the defendant retain money which confessedly belong§ to the plaintiff, when the position of
the defendanf has undergone no change in consequence of gettingthis money? Ifhis circumstances had been changed upon this aceourit, I have conceded that he could retain it. Smith could not
have'been Iulled into a false security, because the statement affirms
that no new transaction happened. St. John, -therefore, could not
have received a fresh advance.' The case of the New England Bank
wai decided upon.the ground that there had been "mutual and extensive dealings;" that they "did 4ot draw ;" and that these things
were like an "actual advance.!' Strike these facts out of the ease,
and it would not haire been decided as it was, but would then have
resembled ours. Here is an insulated transaction_, without any evidence of advanc. or forbearance.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
We think the question certified has been settled by the decision
of this court, and that it-is unnecessary to go into an examination of
'the English lais which were cited in the argument. It is admitted
that the bill was the property of the plaintiff, and was transmitted to
St. John, at Augusta, for collection, and by him transmitted to the
defendant, at Savannah; where the drawer resided; and that no consideration was paid for the bill, either by the defendant or St.Jolh.
According to the usual course of dealing ,amongmerchants, the
transmission of the paper to St. John gave him an implied authority'
to send it for collection to a sub-agent at Savannah, for it could not
have'been expected by the plaintiff that St. John was to go therein
person, either to procure the acceptance of the bill, or to receive the,
money, nor could St. John have so .understood it. -So far, there.
fore, as the question of privity is concerned, 'he case before us is
precisely the same with that of the Bank of the Metropolis v. The
New England Bankj I How. 234. In that case, the bills upon
which the monet-had been received by the plaintiff in error, were
the property of the New England Bank, and had been placed by it
in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank for colledtion, and were
transmitted by the last mentioned bank to thd Bank of the MetropoIii, in Washington, 'where the bills were payable. Ard upon referring to the case, 'it will be-seen that the court entertaiied no
doubt of the right of the New England Bank to maintain the action
VOL. Il. -97
3T

770

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson & Co. v. Smith.

-

for money-had and received, against the Bank of the Metropolis; and
the difficulty in the way of its recovery-in the action was not a want
of privity, but arose from the right of the Bank of the Metropolis
to retain, under the circumstances stated in the case, for its general
balance against the Commonwealth Bank. In that case, as in the
present, ihe agent transmitting the paper appeared, by the endorsements upon'it, to be the -real owner, and the party to whom it was
transmitted- had no notice to the contrary, and th6 money received
was credited.to the Commonwealth Bank. We "thinkthe rule very
clearly established, that whenever, by express agreement between the
parties, a sub-agent is to be employed by the agent to receive money for the principal, or where an authority to do so may fairly be
implied from the usual course of trade, or the nature of the transaction, the" principal may treat the sub-agent as his agent, and when
he, has received the money, may recover it in an action for money
had ind received.
Another question has been raised in the argument, that is, whether the defendant has a right to retain on account of the money due
to him firom St. John? As this point has not been certified, it is
not regularly before the court, yet as it has beenfully argued on both
sides, and .evidently arises in the case, it seems proper to express
our opinion upon it, as it may save the parties from further litigation
and expense.
Upon this part of the case; as well as upon the question certified,
we think the case of the Bank.of the Metropolis v. The New England Bank, decisive against the -defendant. It appears from the
statement that he made no advances, and gave no new credit to St.
John on account of this bill. He merely passed it to his credit in
account. Now if St. John had owed him nothing, uponthe principles we have already stated, the plaintiff-would be entitled to recover
the money; and we see no reason why he should be barred of his
action-because St. John was debtor to the defendant, since the case
shows that he incurred no new responsibility upon the faith of this
bill, and his. trarisactions with St. John remained in all respects the
same as thdy would have beenif this bill had never been transmitted
to'him. . In the case of the Bank of the Metropolis aid the New
England Bank, -it appeared in evidence that there had for a long time
been. Inutual dealings between these two banks, in the collection of
money for each other, and that balances were suffered to remain
and credit given upon the faith of the paper transmitted oi expected.
to be received, according to the usual course- of their business with
one another. And the court held, that if credit had bee -so given,
the party giving it had the same. right to retain as if he bad Viade an,
advaince of money; the hazard he ran by the extensioi of the credit
giving" him as just and equitable a right to tetain, as.if he had incurred responsibility by an advance of money. The rght to retain,
in that case, depended upon the.fact that credit ivas given. But in

JANUARY. TERM, 1845.

771

Ross v. Prentiss.

the case at bar this fact is expressly negatived, and there i&no
ground, therefore, upon which he can retain, according to the principles decided in the case referred to.
As this point, however, is not in strictness regularly before this
court, we shall confine our answer to the question sent here for decision, and 'hall direct it to be certified to the Circuit Court, that
there was such a privity of contract between the plaintiffs and defendant, as would enable the former to maintain the action for money
had and received.

THOMAS B. WINSTON v. Tm UNITED STATES.
Where the matter in dispute is below the amount necessary to give jurisdiction
to this court, the writ of error must be-dismissed, on motion.

NJY'elson (attorney-general) moved to dismiss this case for want
.of jutisdictibnr, tinder the circumstances stated in the opinion of the
court, which was delivered by
Mr. Chief-Justice TANEY.
A motion has been made to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.
It appears that an action was brought by the United States against
the plaintiff in errof, in the District Court of the United States for
the northem district of Mississippi, (the said court having the
powers of a Circuit Court,) for the purpose of recovering "damages
against the plaintiff in error, who was a notary public, for having
faidled to give notice to the endorsers of a promissory note,-put ihto
his bands for protest, wherebythe United States lost their remedy
against them. The note was foK $63 27 cents, and the damages.
in the declaration laid at one thousand dollars. There was a verdict
And judgment for the sum'of $750 36 cents, and it is upon this
judgment that the writ of error is brought.
The matter in dispute is below the amount pecessary'to give
jurisdiction to this court, and the writ of error must therefore be.
disibiissed.
HIRAM PRATT, -DECEASED, APPELLANT, v.
WILLIA.M PRENTISS, MARSHAL, DEFFNDANT.

HUGH Ross, ADMINISTRATOR OF

Where a bill was 'filed on the equity side of the court below, to enjoin the
mirshal from levying an execution upon certain property, which execution
was for a less sum than two thousand dollars, an appeal from a decree dismissing the bill willnot li to this court, although the entire value of the
property may be more than two thousand dollars. "
The jurisdiction of the court does not depend upon the amount of any contingent
loss or damage which one of the parties may sustain by a decision against
him, but upon the amount in dispute betwdn them.

