,lA.NUARY

TERM, 1845.

197

Taylor et al. v. United States.

power td do.' An entrylike every other instrument of writing,
must be construed by the words used. And these-Words can never
be extended, by construction, so as to infringe, up.6n subsequent
*an:dbonfide entries..

Jonr

TAYLOR, JUNIOR, AND WrLVAbM BLACKED"roE AND Co., CLAMNTrrs
OF CLOTHS AND KERSEYSIRES, PIAINTiF'is IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED
STATuS, DzFiNDANTSIN ERROR.

It is the right of an officer of the customs to seize goods which are suspected
to-have been introduced into the country in violation of the revenue laws, not
only in his own district, but also in any other district than his own.
And it is wholly immaterial who makes the seizure, or whether it was irregularly made or not, or whither the cause assigned originally for the seizure be
that for which the condemnation takes place, provided the adjudication is for
a sufficient cause.
In the trial of such a case the officers of the customs who made the seizure are
competent witnesses.
A bill of lading, entry, and owner's oath: concerning other goods than -those
seized; may be admitted as a link in the chain of evidence to show a privity
between the parties to c6mmic. a fraud upon the revenue.
When-a witness on the.part of the United- States stated, that his firm were importers of cloths, and was asked, upon a cross-examination, to state the extent
of their importations, to which he answered, "formerly we imported large
quantities of-woollens; for three -or four years past we have imported but a
few packages annually," it was a proper question on the part of the United
States, "whether there was any thing in the, state of the market which caused
'the alteration ."
It was also a proper question, whether other goods than those seized were" lying
in the custom-house at New York, under circumstances from which the jury
might.infer d connivance between parties inconsistent with fair dealing! An invoice of other goods entered at another port, but marked like those seized,
was also properly admitted as strengthening the evidence of the true ownership of packages with this mark.
To rebut the proof of a general usage of an allowance of fiveper cent for mea-',
surement, other invoices were properly troduced in which there was-no
such allowance.'
er
Where a witness was introducedeto prove such usage, and had verified his own
invoices, it was admissible to read a letter which had been addressed to the
witness and was annexed to one of the invoices.
Revenue-laws, *for the lirevention of fraud, for the suppression of a public
wrong, or to effect a public good, are not, in a strict sense, penal acts, although they impose a Penalty. But they ought. to be so construed as most effectually to accomplish the intintion of the legislature in passing them, in.
stead of being construed with great strictness i4 faVour of the defendant.
C.oncealment and under-valuation of goods are good grounds, amo.ngst otbers,
for a decision of the court, that probable cause.of prosecution existed.
The 68th section of the act of 1799 reaches cases where, by a'false and fraudu-.
lent under-valuation, less than the amountof duties required bylaw has been
-Taid as well as those where-no duties at all have been paid.

•Tins case came up by writ-of error from the Circuit Couit of tie
1United StAtes *forthe eastern district of Pennsylvania.

SUPREME COURT.

198

Taylor et d]. v. United States.

It was an information filed in the District Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania against sundry cases
and pieces of cloths aihd kerseymeres, seized on land, as forfeited..
The information contained thirteen counts.
The first and second were'founded on the 50th section of the
act of 1799, chap. 128.
The third on the 68th section of same act.
The fourth and fifth on the 66th section of same act.
-The sixth, seventh, and eighth on the 4th section of the act of
28th May, 1830, chap. 147.
The ninth on the 14th s ection of the act of 14th Jly, 1832,,
chap. 224.
The tenth on the same section as fourth and fifth.
The eleventh and twelffh on th6 same section as sixth, seventh,
and eighth.
The thirteenth on the same section as ninth,
Upon. the first and second counts the jury found a verdict for the.
claimants, and upon the remaining counts for the United States. The
claimants were John Taylor, jun., and William Blackburne & Co.
The claims filed were as follows:-"John Taylor, jun., late of the city of New York, but now absent
from the United States, by Edward Henry Bradbury, his attorney in
fact, comes and claims the said goods, wares, and me rchandise, in
the said information andlibel mentioned as his property i (subject
to the repayment of a certain advance or loan of sixty thousand
dollars and upwards, thereon made to him by William Blackburne
& Co. ;) and the said John Taylor, jun., by his gaid attorney, alleges,
that at the time of the seizure aforesaid he was, and yet is the true
and lawful owne' of the said goods [wares] and merchandise, subject as aforesaid.

JoiN TAYLoR, Jun.,

Pr. pro E. H. BRAD.BunY.
" October, 101h, 1839.
"Edward Henry Bradbury, being duly sworn, says, the facts
above set forth are just and true, to the best of my kmowledge and
belief. I am the duly authorized attorney in fact of the above
named John Taylor, jun. He was absent from the United States
at the time the seizure of the above mentioned goods, wares, and
merchandise was made, and has ever since continued, and, still is
"E. H. BRADmRnY.
absent from the United'States.
"Sworn, October l1th, 1839, before me.
"PTR. CHRSTIAN, Alderman.
"William Blackburne & Co. claim the said goods, wares, afid
merchandise, in the said libel and information mentioned, as the
sole property of them, the said William Blackburne & *Co., for the
purpose of securing and paying an advance oi loan thereon made
by them to John Taylor, jun., of sixty thousand dollars and uP-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

199

Taylor et al. v. United States.

wards; for securing which said 1an or advance the said goods
[wares] and merchandise were'delivered to them, long tefore the
said seizure, by the said John Taylor, jun., in whose possession they
were as his property, ;And remained in their possession as aforesaid
at the time of said seizure, without any notice or knowledge on
their part that there was any allegation whatever, that the same had
not been duly imported, and the. duties paid or secured; or, that
the -same were on any account liable to seizure, and under the full
and entire belief, on their part, that the said goods [wares] and
merchandise had been duly imported and entered,. and the duties
thereon 'paid or secured according to law.
"Wr. BI.&cinmqx & Co.
'October 101h, 1839.
"Francis Blackburne, being duly sworn, says, I am a member of
the firm of William Blackburnq & Co., mentioned in the foregoing
claim. The facts stated in the foregoing claim are just and true, to
the best of my knowledge and belief. The said firm of William
Blackburne & Co., at and before the time of'the seizure of the
goods and merchandise mentibned in the saidinformation and libel,
was composed of William Blackburne, Francis Blackburne, Christopher John Blackburne, and Charles F. Shaw; since that time the
said Charles F. Shaw has retired from said firm and is uo longer a
Br cnnUiEu
F
member thereof.
"Sworn, October 11th, 1839, before me,
"PTR. CmisTu, Alderman.
, comes John Taylor, jun., and, by
"And now,
leave of the court first had, withdraws so much only of his claim
heretofore filed in this case as relates to forty-three'pieces of cloths,
part of the goods above mentioned, and on behalf of James Buck-.
ley, claims twenty-nine pieces of cloth, part of said forty-three
pieces, as the property of the said James Buckley, and on behalf of
John W. Bradbury, claims fourteen pieces of cloths, the residue of'
the said forty-three pieces, a§ the property of the said John W.
Bradbury; and the said John Taylor, jun., says, that the said Buckley and Bradbury are respectively the true, sole, anl lawful owners
of the respective parcels of cloth herein above claimed for them respectively, and, so. beingthe owners, respectively consigned the said
several parcels to the said John Taylor, jun., who, as their consignee
and factor, at the time of the seizure aforesaid, held, aad is still entitled to-hold the same, subject to the repayment of the advances
made thereon by William Blackburne & Co., in whose actual possession they then were. And the said John Taylor, jun., further
says, that the said. Buckley and Bradbury are both resident in Eng.
land, and were, at and before the time'of said seizure, and now
1 JoHN TAY-Lor, Jun.
are, absent from the United States.

200

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. United States.

"John Taylor, jun., being duly sworn, says, that the facts above
set forth are true to the best of his belief.
", JoHN TAYLon, Jim.
"Sworn.and subscribed before me, Febriiary 12th, 1840.
"WiLLIA3 MILNOR, Alderman."
In March, 1840, the case qame on'for trial, Some of 'the poinits
of Jaw. which were raised are thus stated in the record : And the
counsel of the said plaintiffs, to support Od provt te issue on,.heir
part, called as witnesses John J. Logue George Gideon,- and William Cairns, -ho, being respectively sworn on their voir dire, testified that they went to Blackburne's store, and there assisted in making
the seizure of the go'ods mentioned in the said information; the said
Logue and Gideon stating that they were, tt the tifne of making said
seizure, inspectors of the customs in the distrfct of Philadelphia, and
the- said Cairns stating that he was, at the time. of making said
seizure, an. inspector of the bustoms in the port of New York.
Whereupon, the said defendants objected to the admission of said
"Logue, Gideon, and Cairns, everal y, as witnssegfor the plaintiffs,
they
beingsaid
interested
in the,
of thethe
oase.
the judge
overto which
witnesses,
said But
andevebt
admitted
objections
rutled,th'e
the.
said
and
excepted;
there
and
then
admission the. defen~dants
attending
fats
the
pvroved
and
plaintiffs,
the were thereupon severally.swon and exof Cairns
on behalfand
amined
Loue, Gideon,
the seizure of the goods, and that certain original "mas on packages containing the said goods had been erased, and among them
the fnark [B]F, 'which was originally upon onie of said packages.
In the course- of the examination of the said witnesses the following papers were produced and given in evidence, beingthe affidavit,
warrant, and authority under which the seizure of the said goods
of. William
goods seized, affidavit
list of theMilnor,.authority
.was made, viz.: ofAAlderman
Wol,
fromGeorge
Cairns, warrant
also provedin that
It was
of "Philadelphia:
portgoods
collector
esq.greater
the
an apartment
Were seized in
partofofthe'aid
the
house
the
adjoining
alley,
Church
26
second story of the house No.
No. 24 Church alley, which apartmentwasoeupeadby the" house
No. 24 Church aofey into which a. doorway had been cut, the cominication between said aparnent andeithe remainder of the hous .
26 .Church alley being closed.
rNo.
The counsel of the United States, further to prov the i ue 'on.
their part, offered inAevidence the bill of iading, entry, and owner's
oath;ltaken on the 16th of July, 1839, in the monath preceding the
seizure of the goods in question, of nineteen: cases of goods,.(not
hodu3) marked [B]F 1 a 19. To all which the
seized
pas ofr the g
said defendants objected; but the judge overruled the objection, and
admitted the-same in evidence. Whereupon the :said .papersowerii
read in' evidence.
[The counsel of the United States, further to prove the issue on

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

M0

Taylor et al. v. United States.

their parts, offered evidence to prove that William Blackburne
& Co. haa, in January, 1839, imported'certain'invoices (no part of
the goods seized) into Philadelphia, and had entered them at the
custom-house there; that the goods so imported had beeri appraised
above the invoice prices; that the importers had acquiesced in such
appraisement; and that Francis Blackburne thereupon stated that
he had passd 140 cases at New York, at similar prices, and would
cease importin& goods here; the counsel stating that this was to be
followed by evidence to show that he never did import into New
York in his own name. All which evidence was objected to by the
defendants, but was admitted by the court, to which the defendants
then. and there excepted; and the said. evidence was -thereupon.
T*ven." And the plaintiffs further proved;tfh dnission of the deendant Taylbr, that the said mark [B]F was'the' niaik of said -defendant Frincis Blackburne, and that said Taylor, as the bgent of
said Blackburne, had paid freight at New York for packages of
oo ds imported there with.that mark; and further proved that no
importations had
been
at that port in the name of said Francis
Blackbure,
or of
saidmade
William
Blackburne & Co., previously to
the summer
of 1839, but that large importations had been made
there in the'name of the claimant, John Taylor, jr. Itwas provd
that the goods seized had been imported into New York, and entered ana passed there, and the duties'thereupon paid, but it was no
part of tb e evidence or case of 'the United States, that there had
been any fraud or connivance on the part of the officers of the custom-house of New-York with the importers of said goods.]
Abraham L Lewis was examined as a witness on behalf of the
Jnited States; and having'stated that his firm were importers of
cloths and kerseymeres, and that he had thereby a knbwledge of
their quality and value, he was asked, on cross:exaniination, to state
the extent of the importations of his firm; and in reply, aid:
"Formerly, we imported large quantities of woollens; for three,
four, or five years past, we have imported but a few packages annually." Whereupon the counsel of the United States, 'on re-examination, proposed the. following question, viz.: "Was there any
thing in the state of the market'which caused the alteration -which
you have mentioned, in the amount imported by you'within four or
five years lasi past ?" To which question the defendants objected.
But the jtdge allowed the question.to be' put, saying, the question
may have a bearing on the case, &c. ; that it was but following out
the question 'on the cross-examination. To which decision the
defendants then and there excepted. Whereupon the said question
was put to the witness, and answered by him.
The counsel of the United States further-offered to prove, by the
oath of David Gardiner, that certain goods marked [B]F, .which
had been imported into New Yrk in the ship Eutaw, being the
same oil which defendant Francis Blackburne was alleged to have
VOL. IH.-.26

202

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et a]. v. United 'States.

paid the freight ag aforesaid, were still in the- custom-house at New
York. To which the 'defendants objected. But the judge overruledfthe objection, and admitted, the evidence; to which decision
the defendants then and there excepted. Whereupon the said evidefnce was given.
The counsel of the United States further offered in evidence an
invoice of merinoes (not, part of the goods mentioned inL the in'formation) bought of, Abel Shaw, entered in Philadelphia by Wm.
Blackburne & Co., by ship Franklin, on the 19th August, 1839,
marked [B]F, 35 a 53, offered as strengthening the evidence of the
ownership of packages with this mark. To whinh the defendants
objected. But the'judge admitted the evidence; to which decision
the defendants then and there excepted. *Whereupon the said invoice was read in evidence.
And the counsel of the'United States,'in rebutter, offered in evidence invoices of Blackburne, Taylor, and Okie & .Robinson, to
show the 'absence of any such custom as to the allowance of five
p. c. for measurement, as had been testified to by ihe witnesses
on the part of the defendants.. Which evidence was objected to.by
the defendants. But the objection was overruled by the court, and
the said evidence was admitted; to which decision the. defendants
then and there excepted. Whereupon said invoices were read.
The defendants produced and examined John Robinson, of the
firm of Okie & Robinson, and Robert Walker, to prove 'an alleged
usage of trade, in England, to make a discount or allowance of
five per cent. for measure on -cloths and cassimeres; said Robert
Walker being cross-examined, several invoices of his own importatibns into the port of New York were shown to.-and verified by him:
and the said invoices 'were placed by plaintiffi' counsel in the hands
of the counsel of the defendants, and one of said invoices -was read
by the counsel of the United States to the jury. The counsel of
the United States, pending this cross-examination, offered to read
to the jury a letter from one Waite to the witness, which accompanied and was annexed to one of the said invoices, and left therewith-in the New York custom-house, on which the goods had been
entered, and referring to the said invoice. The. reading of which
letter in evidence was objected to by defendants. But the -court
admitted the same to be read to the jury; to which decision the
defendants' counsel excepted. Whereupon the said letter was read
in evideice.
And the counsel of the United Stales further offered in evidence
the several invoices which had been shown to defendants' witness,
Robert Walker,- durin his cross-examination, and had been verified
by him, of goods consigned to and imported by said Robert Walker
into New York; the said invoices having been shown to the counsel
for the claimants, and one of them read to the court and jury, without objection on the part of the claimant to any of them; which

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Taylor et a]. v. United States.

203

being objected to by defendants, the judge said that he considered
them to be already in evidence, inasmuch as one had been read to'
'the jury, and the others shown to the witness Walker, verified by
him, and shown to the counsel of the defendants, and all were
offered for the same purpose, and. that the papers should be considered in evidence. To which decision the defendants then and
there excepted. Whereupon the said invoices were read to, the
jury.
And the judge charged the. jury.
And thereupon the defendants' counsel excepted to the said
charge generally, and to every part thereof; and in addition to
said general exception, and without prejudice thereto, specified the
following excetions, to wit:
That the judge, in his said charge, instructed the jury1. That, the whole proceeding in the seizure of the .goods in
question was, and substantially, in conformity with the act of Congress.
2. That the objections made to the proceedings are immaterial
to the issue now trying.
3. That the entry of the goods at New York, their appraisement
at the custom-house there, the payment of the duties according to
that appraisement, and the delivery of the goods thereupon to the
importers, were not conclusive against the United States in this
case.
4. That the revenue acts mentioned in this information are not
strictly penal laws.
5. That the duties on the goods were not paid within the meaning
of the 68th section of the act of 1799, (although they had been
passed at the custom-house of New York, and- the duties there
assessed upon them had been paid, according to the value and
prices in the invoice,) if the jury should be of opinion that they
were not invoiced"at their fair and true cost and value.
6. That the prbvision of the 66th section of the act of 1799,
the charge, was not repealed.
.mentioned
7. That in
under
the act of 1830, when a package or invoice has
been made up with intention to deftraud, the package or invoice
(that is, the goods contained in the invoice) are forfeited.
8. That the probable' cause mentioned in the-7th section of the.
act of 1799, is not a cause existing and known to the persons by
whom the seizure was made, antecedent to the seizure, and which
was the warrant and ground of the proceedings. The. probable
cause interfded by the act has no reference to the seizure, but to
the trial. There must- be probable cause for the prosecution, not
for the seizure, and the court is td judge of it by what appears to
the court-by'what comes'to the knowledge of the. court on the
trial of the prosecution.
9." That the United States have shown probable cause for the

204

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. United States.

prosecution, and that the onus probandiwas thrown upon the claimatnts.
10. That it was not necessary to affirm or deny the doctrine that
there can be but one official appraisement of the goods, and that
that must be made in the custom-house at which the goods were
entered.
11. That- the first step in the4 inquiry whether the goods are
invoiced at their actual cost, is to ascertain ivhat was their actual
-cost; and how has this been done on the part of the United States?
By certain -appraisementsmade, in the first place, by official. appraisers
of the custom-house of this city; and further, by private -appraisers,
selected for that purpose. If the opinions of Messrs. Stewart and
Simpson (the official appraisers at the port of Philadelphia) have not
the authority of an official appraisement or act, .they have, nevertheless, the.weight of the judgment of men accustomed to other goods
of this description, and who; from the appointment, as well as their
experience, may be presumed to have competent knowledge and
skill in ascertaining their value. In this light the jury may consider
their evidence, and give credit to it accordingly.
And thereupon, the couisel for the said claimants did then and
there-except to the aforesaid charge and opinions of the said court;
and inasmuch as the said charge and opinions,"so excepted to, do
not appear upon the record, the said counsel for the said claimants
did then and here tender this bill of exceptions to-the opinion of
the said court, and requested the seal of the said judge aforesaid
should be put to the same, according to the form of the statute in
such case made and provided.
And thereupon, the aforesaid judge, at the request of the said
counsel for the claimants, did put his seal to this bill of exceptions,
pursuant to the aforesaid statute in such case made and provided.
Jos. HopxiNsoN. [L. s.]
Meredith and Crittenden, for the plaintiffs -in error.
Cadwalladerand Jelson, attorney-general, for the United States.
The Reporter was unavoidably absent, and therefore cannot report
the arguments of the respective counsel.
Mr. Justice STORY-delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the judgment of the Circuit Court of the
eastern district of Pennsylvania, afrming the judgment of the District Court founded upon an information in rem against certain cases
of cloths and cassimeres seized on land in the said district. The
cause was tried by a jury, who returned a verdict for the United
States, upon which the judgment was rendered.
The information contained thirteen counts.' The first and second
counts were founded on the 50th section of the Duty-Collection Act
of 1799,-chap. 128; the third coum.t was founded on the 68th sec-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

205

Taylor et aL v. United States.

tion of the same act; the fourth, fifth, and tenth counts were founded on the 66th section of the same act; the sixth, seventh, eighth,
eleventh, and twelfth counts were founded on the 4th section of the
act of the 28th of May, 1830, chap. 147 ; and the ninth and thirteentlt counts were founded on the 14th section of the 7act of the
14th of July, 1832, chap. 224. The -claimants put in a plea or
answer denying the allegations in the information, upon which an
issue was tendered and joined, and tied by the jury.At 'the trial, certain exceptions were taken ,to the .matters ruled,
and t6 the charge given by the learned judge who presided at the
trial, the form and frame of which excepftons, as propounded by the
counsel, we do not propose to examine; and the questions submitted 'to us arise from the matters of law thus 'ruled and contained in
his charge. With the comments of the learned judge upon theevidence, except so far as they involved matters of,law, we have
nothing to do, as they were submitted solely for the consideration
of the jury in weighiig the evidence, of which they were the proper
and final judges.
In the course of the argument in this court, an objection was
insisted on, that the seizure itself upon which the information is
founded, was irregularly and improperly made, it having been madeby the collector of -the customs of the port of Philadelphia, when it
should have been made by the collector of the customs of the port
of New York. And some-reliance in support of this objection seems
to have been placed upon the supposed intention of the 68th section
of the Duty-Collection Act of 1799, chap. 128. -But if any reliance
could be placed thereon, is we tfiink it could not,) it would be
completely remo-ied byrthe 70th section of the same act, which
makes it the duty of the several officers of the customs to malke
seizure of all vessels and goods liable to seizure by virtue of that act
or any other. act respecting the revenue, aswell Without as within
their respective districts. So that it is plain from this provision that
a seizure made by any officer of the customs of any district would
be good, although made within any other district. ' And the whole
structue of the act shows that any officer of the customs had a perfect right to seize goods found in his own district, and indeed that
°
it was his appropriate duty.
But the objection itself has no just foundation in law.. At the
common law any person may, at his peril, seize for a forfeiture to
the government, and, if the government adopts his seizure, and
institutes proceedings to enforce the foifeiture, and the property is
condemned, he will be completely justified. So that it is wholly.
immaterial in such a casd -who makes the seizure, or whether it is
irregularly made or not, or vhether the cause assigned originally
for the seizure be that for which the condemnation takes place, provided the adjudication is for a sufficient cause. This doctrine was
fully recognised b this court in Hoyt v. Gelston, 3 Wheat. 247,
S

206

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et al. v. United States.

310, and in Wood v. United States, 16 Peters, 342, 358, 359. And
fiom these decisions we feel not the slightest inclinaton to depart.
Indeed, if the objection could under any circumstances be maintainable, it was matter that sh6iuld have been propounded as preliminary matter in the nature of a plea in abatement of the information,
and could constitute no point before the jury upon pleadings addressed to the merits of the case, and involving the direct question
of forfeiture or not.
In the course of the "trial several objections to the competency of
certain witnesses, and to the admissibility of certain evidence, offered
•on behalf of the United States, were taken by the claimants. .In
the first place an objection was taken to the competency of John J.
Logue, George Gideon, and William Cairns, called to support the
issue-on behalf of the. United States, they being officers of the customs and the persons who niade the seizure of the goods in controversy. By the 71st section of the Duty-Collection Act.of 1799, chap.
128, the onus probandi to'establish the innocence of the property
is thrown upon the claimant in all cases where probable cause is
shown for the seizure and prosecution. And by the 89th section
of the same act it is provided, that when in any prosecution on account of a seizure judgment shall be given for the claimant, if it shall
appear to the court before whom such prosecution shall be tried, that
there was a reasonable ciuse of s~izure, the court shall cause a. certificate and entry to be made thereof; nd in such case the person
makingthe seizure, or the prosecutor, shall not be liable to any action,
suit, Or judgment, on account of such seizure and prosecution. The
argument, therefore, on behalf of the claimant is, that these witnesses
are incompetent, they being intdrested in the event of the suit, and
being liable to an action at the suit of the claimants, if reasonable
cause for the seizure was not established, and that ther testimony in
effect would conduce to establish such reasonable cause.
Several answers may be given to this objection. In the first place,
it's not true, that the mere liability of a pk-ty to an action in one
event of a suitwill constitute of itself an absolute or universal objection
to his competency. There are many exceptions to the rule on this subject, founded upon necessity, or public policy, or the remoteness,
e uncertainty, or the contingent nature of the liability. The present case falls directly within these exceptions. The witnesses were
acting as the agents of the government in making the search "and
seizure; they alone could give testimony as to the facts attending
,such search and seizure, and were, therefore, witnesses from necessity;. and their a~ts being hdopted or authorized by the government,
public policy requires that the government should have the means
of enforcing.its own rights through the instrumentality of their, testimony. Their competency for such purposes falls directly within the
reasoning of the Court of King's Bench in the case of The King v,
Williams, 9 Barn. & Cres. 549, and the case of United States v.

JANUARY TERM. 184J.

207

Taylor et al. v. United State .
Murphy.,. 16 .Peters, 203, where the subject was considered very
much at large.
In the next place, the witnesses were not objectionable in point
of competency or account of any interest in the event of'lie cause.
'Theirinterest, if ahy they had, asinformers or otherwise, in the forfeiture, was completely removed by the provision of the 91st section
of the Duty-Collection Act of 1799, chap. 128, which, when they are
used as witnesses; takes away from them the: share of the forfeiture
to which they would, otherwise be entitled. In the event of the suit
therefore, they had no interest,.for the-suit was solely to enforce .the
forfeiture. '.he question, whethe.r thefe was probable or reasonable
cause f6r.fihe seizure, cdnstituted no-part.of thq.issue to"be tried by
the jury. So -ar as .it respected throwing .the onus. probandi upon
the claimants, it was a matter solely.for the cbasderation of the court
'in the irogress of-the" trial, and-collateral to the main inquiry, although of great importance in regiilating -the nature -and extent and
sufficlency of the evidence.; Afias -far as respected the certifi"cate and eitry of. reas6nable cause to protect the' seizors from future
.libility.for.the -seizure,.it 4asno part of the issue, and, indeed; was
anl~qt to be. doine, by the' court before whom thi prosecution was
tried, only in case judgment upon the verdict should pass for' the
claimants; and it, therefoie,. was' plainly an act to be done and inquiry:to be had posterior to thetrial.
" In the nekt place, the objection taken was to the cbmpetency of
the witaesses,, as such, for ahy purposes in the cause. They were
not called by the goverdiment as witnesses to give .evidence of matters shoir"ig reaspnable or probable cause for the seizure, but as'
witnesses generally "to support the issue on-the part" of the government. . If competent for any. purpo e ipon the' trial, they coulT'not
be rejected eeially; and that they were competent to prove the
fa~ts attending the seizure of the goods, 4nd that certain original
marks on packages containing the said goods had been erased, and
mong, them the mark [B]F, which was 'originally upon one of the
said packages," cannot, in our judgment, admit of any just' doubt.
It could, maake no difference as to -their admissibility f6r these.purposes, thaft collaterally th~se, facts might bear up'on the question' of
probable or reasonable cause or not.
]ti the next place, .there was another and independdnt .ground
upon which thenr competency is clear. It is, that thdy *ere acting
under a search-warrant in making the search and seizure, which
would undoubtedly, under the 68th section of the same act; be a
complete protection 't them against all liability to any suit therefor, unless indeed in a -case where the witnesses acted from malice,
and also 'without probable cause; and the absence of either would
exonerate them frbm all liability. So that in this view their'liability
-Was remote, contingent, and uncertain"

208

SUPREME. COURT.
Taylor.et al. v. VUvited States.

Upon all these grounds we are.6f opinion,'that the witnesses were
clearly admissible.
Ahother objection was to the admissibility of a bill of lading, entry, and owner's oath, taken on the 16th of July, 1839, in the. month
preceding the seizure of the goods .in question,'of iineteen cases of
goods (not part of the "goods seized) marked [B]F, 1 a 19. Although this" evidenc.e was objected to, and it.was. admitted, yet it
does not appear upon the record, that any exception was taken to
the ruling. But, without dwelling upon tis, 'Whickhwas perhaps.an
accidental omission, it 'is propdr to say, that this evidence was not
offered as a single, isolated document, (for in that view it might be
,deemed at -most as irrelevant and inconsequeotial f6r any purpose;)
but it -was offered in connection with other doc'uments -and evidence
to establish a privity between Taylor and Blackbume & Co. in other
importations of a kindred character, and -under a scheme of meditated fraud upon the revenue of the United States, of which these
documents were a link in the chain. For this. purpose they might
be important and necessary;* and although the whole evidence'is
not set forth in the record, yet.it is apparent, from what is there
found in reference to the next objection, that the evidence had an
intimate Connection and bearing upon that.which is there stated..
*The objection here alluded to. is in the record stated in the following words: "The counsel of the United States?'--see the paragraph
in the statement of the Reporter which is included within brackets.]
Now, we think the exception to this evidence was properly overruled, aiid the evidence admissible to establish the connection between Taylor and Blackbunhe in other importations as well as in the
importation of the goods. now in controversy, and also to displace
any-presumption that the acts of the one were not properly to be
deemed attributable to any connivance.with. the other, or that they
'were pot joinily interested in th'e-saiae scheme of im'portations, and
mutually cognaisant of thq design4 of each other. What. effect this
evidence:.ought to. hive after it$ admiision irr the cause, takerl; h
confectidn -with the' bther' evidence, was a -matter for the conisideration of the'jury alone; but of its admissibility for the liurposes above
.stated.we atertain no- doubt.'' It is, indeed, a.strange orjtsion in
the record, that .the 'other' evidence in the 'case is i'ot therein fully
stated, hior the -points, to which' it -was adduced, suggested, so that
we are left to conjecture from very imppefect materiaIs what was the
true extent and bearing'bf the various' matters excepted to as improper evidence.
.Another obje.ction is to a question pvt to Abi aham J. Lewis, a
.itnes on.behalf *of 'the .United.States, who, having statea that his
firm 'we're importers of clcths.andkersemeres,.and that he had thereby a knowledge of their quality, -was' isked,,on cross-examination,
-to state the extent 'of the, impoitatiolls of his firm; and in. reply he
'said, "'Form-erly we .imported .*l' e qxantititiqs of woollens; for

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Taylor et al. v. United States.

three or four years past we have imported but a few packageq annually." Whereupon the counsel for the United States, on re-examination, proposed the followingquestion, viz. : "Was there any thing
in the state of .he market, which caused the alteration wich you
have mentioned in the amount importedclaimants
by you within
fourbut
oi five
the
objected;
years 1a, past?" to which question the
judge allowed the-question to be put, saying it might have some
bearing on the case, and that it was .bMt following out the question
put on the cross-examination. We think the decision of the court
was perfectly correct, for the reason stated by the judge. The anhad ceased to imaport so largely,
..
swer might show that the witness
-not from want of skl or capital; but for reasons whiich might connect themselves with the importations of The" caimants. What the
answer was we do not know; and certainly it could be no just
ground of exception, that the answer was such as had nlobearing
either way upon the merits of the case, and afortori not, if favourable to the claimants.
of the evidence ofDa-

Another objection was toihnadmsibilty
vid Gardner, who was offered to pr6ve that certain goods, marimd
S[B]F, which-had been imported into New York,in. the ship Eutaw,
being the same. on which Francis Blackburne was alleged to have
paid the freight, were still in the custom-hose at New York. We
think that this evidence was properly admissible, for the same reasons

res
a part of the
wasfavourable
stated. It
already evidence
to the
been of-the
which
those If.
aseti.
were
ther parts
the have

nnocence of the claimants in their various importations, then no conclusion against them could fairly be rawn from this fact. But if,
on the other hand, strong circumstances of suspicion of fraud attached to other importations, then the circumstance, so conhary.to
the usual course of merantile transactions in cases of perishable a-.
tides, or articles liable to depreiation or decay, of their remaining
long in the custom-house, might fairly be deemed to inflame those
the interval the government was on the
suspicions, especially if in
alert to detect supposed frauds in .oter importations.

Another objection was to the admission of the evidence of an nvoie of merinoes, (not part of the goods mentioned in the information,) entered in Philadelphia, by Blackburne & Co., and marked
[B], 35 to .53, offered as strengthening the evidence of the ownership of packages with this mark. In this view we can perceive
no possible queition as to the competency or paopriety of the evidence.
of certain
Another objection was to the admissibility in evidence
Robinson, to show the ab&use
invoices of Blackbme, Taylor, O
of five per cent. for
sence of any such, usage as to the allowance
measurement, as had been testified to by the witnesses on the part
of the claimants.l We see no just ground of exception to the admissibility of such evidence. The usage set up was of a general
s2
VoL.. I1I. -27

210

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor et a.

v. United States.

nature,. and, all- evidence .which went to establish the want of uch
generality, by proof of the non-existence of such a deduction in in.
voices of a similar nature-where, if it was general nd -well known,
it ought to be found-was certainly admissible to rebut the pre8umptions-derived from the adverse proof. The sameanswer may*
be given, and indeed applies more forcibly, to the.evidence given
by Robert Walker, a witness for the claimants, who, upon his crossexamination, verified several invoices of his owii importations into
the -portof New York; and also a letter*of one Waite, annexed to.,
one of the invoices. 'The introduction of this letter was objected to;
but it was an accompaniment of the invoice introducEd without objection, and it was offered not in chief, but as qualifying and repel-ling the evidence offered by. the claimants as to the five per cent.
utage--founded, ambng that of-others, upon the very tbstimony of
Walker. The other invoices verified by Walker were, for the'sanie
reason, in our judgment, equally admissible.
We have thus gone over the various objections taken to the competency and admissibility of the testimony in this case; some of
whiich, considering all the circumstances of the base, can scarcely be
treated otherivise than as being idenr apicesjuris; and'shall now proceed to examine the exceptions taken to the charge of the court.
Of many of these it is unnecessary to-take any special notice, since
they have been already disposed of-in the. case of Wood u; United
States, 16 Peters, 342, or have incidentally fallen under notice in
.the preceding parts of this opinion. Upon the point that the rve:nue laws, on which the information was founded, were not, as the
judge in the. court below suggested, to be deemed penal laws in the
sense in which that phrase is soiaetimes used, it may-be- proper to
say a very few words. Ile treated the point as not of great importance in the case, as we think it was not, since it had no tendency
to change the interpretation of the provisions of the revenue laws
then under his consideration. In one sense, every law imposing a
penalty'or forfeiture may-be deemed a penal law; in another sense,
such laws are often deemed, and truly deserve to be called, remedial. ,The judge -was therefore strictly accurate, when he stated
that It must not beunderstood that every law.which imposes apenalty is, therefore, legally speaking, a penal law, that-is, a law which
is to be -const ued with great stiictness in favoui of the -defendant.
Laws enacted-for the.prevention of -fraud, for the suppression o a
public wrong, or "to effect a public- good, are not, hr the strict sense;
penal acts, although they may inflict a penalty for viblating them."
And he added; "It is in this light I view the revenue laws, and I
vould construe them so as most effectually to accomplish the intention of the legislature in passing them." .The same distinction will
be found recognised in the elemdntary writers, as,- for example,, in
Blackstone's Commentaries, (1 Black. Comm. 88;) and Bacon's
Abridgment, (statute-I. .7,8;) and Comyns' Digest, (Pirliameint R.

-

JANUARYr TERM, 1845.

•211

Taylor et al. v. United States.

13, R. 19, R. 20 ;) and it is also abundantly supported by the authorities.
The main exception however to the charge is as to the ruling of
the judge that there was probable cause of seizure, and that, therefore, the onus probandi to establish the innocefice of thelimportation,
and to repel the supposed forfeiture, was upon the claimants. We.
entirely concur in the opinion of the judge,.in his views of the eviadence as applicable to this point.. He, and not the jury, was to
judge whether there was probable cause or not to throw the, onus
probandi on the claimants; for the 71st section of -the act of 1799,
chap. 128; expressly declares that the onus probandishall lie on the.
claimant only where probable cause is shown for such prosecution,to be judged of by the court before whom such piosecution is to be
had." In our judgment, the circumstances were .abundantly sufficient to justify him, nay, to require him to throw the onus probandi
on the claimants.' The extraordinary circumstances connected with
the concealment of the goods, the prevarications and false statements
of Blackburne, and the undervaluation of the gbods, all required the
most plenary proQfs on the part of the claimants, to deliver the property from the perils -by which it was surroiimded. The original
cost of the purchases could.have been fully proved by the claimants,
if the transactions were bona fide purchases; and they had the most
ample means within their power to establish- it. Taylor and Blackbume were so completely mixed up in these transactions, as principals -and agents, or as joint principals, that the acts of the onemight
most justly be attributed -to the other; and in fact they admit of Ao
reasonable separation as to design or privity of co-operation.
There is but one other exception remaining, which requires any
special notice. It is whether the 68th section of the act of 1799,.
chap, 128, was intended to reach, or'does reach cases where, by a
false and fraudulent undervaluation, less than the amount of duties
required by law has been paid, or whether it applies only to cases
where no duties at all have been paid- upon the goods. In our
bpinion, the section was- designed to apply equally to both cases.
In the sense of that section all goods are forfeited on which, by
fraud, all the duties shall not have been paid, or secured to be paid,
which- are by law required to be paid or secured thereon.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

