JANUARY TERM, 1845.

48a

°

Bla-qk et al.ov. Zacharie & Co.

given by that court to the will ought to. have been.the ride of construction for this court.
Mr. Chief Justice TAzy concurred in the opinion of Mi. Justice
MCKINLEY.*

Fau cis C. BLAcK

AmD JAmES CH m'x, PLAiNTiFFS iN mRtOR, v. J. W.
ZAcHARiE .&Co., DEFENDANTS.

When a creditor, residing in ouisiana, drew bills of eAchange upon his debtor,
residingia South Carolina, which bills were negotiated to a third person and
accepted by the'"deawee, the creditor had no right to lay an attachment upon
the property of-the debtor, until the bills had become due, -were dishonoured,
and taken up by the drawer.
By the drawing of the bills a new credit was extended to the debtor for the time
to which they run.
Thed laws of Lpuisiana, allowing attachments for debts notyet due, relate only
to absconding debtors, and do net embrace a case like the above.
The legAl title to stock held in corporations situated in Louisiana, does not pass
under a general assignment of property, until the transfer is compl'eted in the
mode'l&ointed out by the laws of Louisiana, regulating those corporations.
But the equitable title will pass, if the assignment be sufficient to transfer it by
the laws of the state in which the assignor resides, and if the laws 'of the
state where the qorporations exist do not prohibit the assignment of equitable
interests in stock. Such an assignment will bind all persons who hove
notice of itThe laws of Louisiana do not prohibit the assignment of equitable interests in
the state by residents of other states.
Personal property hasno locality. The law of the owner's domicil is to determine the validityof the transfer or alienation theieof, unless'there is som6
positive or customary law of the country where it is found to the contrary.

Tins case .was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States for East Louisiana.
It was an attachment issued :originally b, the Commercial Court
of New Orleans, (a state court,) against the goods and chattels,

lands and tenements, rights and mnoneys, effects and credits, of
Black, at the instance of Zacharie. & Co., and 'renoved, on the petition of Black, into the Circuit Court of, the United States.

Black resided in Charleston, South Carolina, and Zacharie & Co.
in New Orleans.

In 1837, Black was the, owner of five'hundred shares of the
capital stock of the New Orleans Gis Light and Bankihg Company,
and six hundred shares of the Carrollton Bank of New Orleans.
On the 31st. of May, in that year, he assigned to the Bank of South
* On the trial of this case, Mr. Justice Sron was
therefore, ruled the decision.

-absent;

four of the judges,

484

SUP REME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

Carolina, as security for a loan, his shares in the Gas light and
Banking Company, with power to sell, if necessary.
The shares ifn-the -Carrollton Bank were mortgaged to that bank..
Zacharie & Co. and Black were in commn'ercial correspondence*
from 1835 to 1840, and a number of letters were inserted- in the
record. The point of law, however, 'which-was based -upon those
letters, having been de'cided by the court below, and the decision
not excepted to, it is unnecessary to recite their contents.
In the early part of 1841, Zacharie & Co. shipped to Black a
cargo of sugar and molasses,"which was sold from time to -ime,
beginning with.January the 25th, and ending with April'9th, partly
for cash aud partly o- time.
The following bills ruf exchange were diawn by Zacharie & Co.,
on Black:
February 17th, at sixty days after sight, $1500 00
February 18th,
"
"
CC.
1500 00
February 24th,
c"
'
.2000 00
March
11st,,
cc
"
2000 00
April
Ist,
"
" ."
1088 25
They were all drawn in favour of Alexander McDonald, and ac-.
cepted by Black. The two first fell due on the same day, viz.: on
the 30th April, 1841, .and weie protested.
On the 15th April, 1841, Black, executed a'power of attorney,
appointing, the 6shier of the Gas Light and Banking Company his'
agent-, to transfer the five hundred shares of stock standing in his
name'to the Bank of South Carolirfa.
On the 16.th of April; 1841, this power was forwarded by the
Bank of South Carolina to the cashier of the Gas Light and Banking Company, withd request that the transfer.might be. immediately
made, and a new certificate issued.
On the 28th of April, 1841, Black made a general assignment of
all his-property to James Chapman, for the benefit of all his creditors,
mentioning particularly the five hundred'shares" of stock in the Gas
Light'and Banking Company, subject to the.mortgdge before-men.
tioned-to the Bank of South Carolina, and the six hundred shares
in the Carrollton. Bank, subject to a mortgage to thie Carrollton Bank.
These mortgages'.the -trustee was directed to pay off, and divide the
aurplus amongst the creditors named in a schedule annexed to the'
deed, including Zacharie & Co.'
On the same day Black addressed a letter to Zacbarie & Co., informing them of what he had done, and~that he bad sent the assignment to Messrs. J. H. Leverich & Co. .-He said alsoYour two drafts; $1,500 ea6h, fpl due on' the 30th inst.
Your one draft, $2,000, falls due on the 7th May..
Your one draft, $2,000, falls due on the 3d June.
Your one draft, $1,088, falls, due on the 14th June.
On the 4th of May, 1841, Zacharie & Co. filed an affidavit tor

-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Bliac

485

et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

the purpose of obtaining from- the Commercial Court of New Orleans, as before stated, an attachment against the goods and .credits
of ] lack. The necessary bond was given, and the attachment laid
in the hands of the Carrolton Bank, and of the Gas Light and
Banking Company.
On the 5th of 'May, 1841, Zacharie & Co. addressed to Black a
letter; from which the following is an extract:
"FRNCIs C.-BLAci, Esq,
kDt -Sm-:-Yours of the 28th ltimo came to hand yesterday
morning at the opening of the pbst-office, and immediately after. the
shock the writer experienced, he called on our attorney, and in less
than ten *minuteswe had an attachment levied on your stocks, both:
of the Carrollton and Gas Banks, and am happy to say.that-our attorney assures us that we have succeeded it in spite of our. assignment, which is worthless in'our state, pbrticularly s no transfer had-takenplace on the books of the bank; -this course we feel satisfied-- yuU must approve of, as it certainly, will relieye. you from the very
uhappy and truly inevitable dilemma of throwing upon your friend,
who to serve you has, without compensation,.accepted for your accommodation upwards of -$3000a loss to thaf amount. A neglect.
to provide for this sacred and confidential debt, you could not be
sustained in by your best friend; and indeed we cannot bt believe
you will be happy t6 learn the cotirse we have pursded, and we now
hope that y~ur assignee will u'rge a decision as soon as practicable,
as it is useless to brocrastinate the matter longer than necessary."'
On the 6th of May.; 1841, J. H. Leyerich addressed letters to the
cashier of the Carrollton Bank, and of the Gas Light and Banking
Compiy, requesting them to transfer thi stock in their respective
institutions, standing in the name of Blaqk, to Chapman, -his as-.
signee; to which the following answers were returned:
Gas Light and Banking Company,
- 'M"'ew- Orleans, Tlay 5th, 1841.
,CMessrs. JAmEs H. LnEvzmc & Co.
"GENTLEM m
.- In answer to your note of this date, I have to
say, that. on the 22d ult. .1riceived a letter from J. Chapman
cashier of the-Bank of South Carolina, covering a certificate of five
hundred shares bf the stock of this institution, in favour of Francid
C. Black, togethei with a power from said Black to me to transfer
the stock to the Bank of South Caroliia ; that said power being not
considered sufficiently formal, (althoughi it ibight be thought so by
persons less rigid than myself in matters of the kind,) was returned
to the Bank of South Carolina, with the remark, that upon another
being furnished in conformity with corrections which were stated o4
'the face of the one returned; the desired certificate would be trans.mitted.
"1On the 4th inst. a notice of seizure, of all effects or property
Of said Black. in this bank, under an attachment was served; con2s2

486

-

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

sequently) under all these circumstances, we cannot consent to the
transfer requested in your note, but must hold the stock, subject to
the decision of the courts. "Respectfully, your obedient servant,
(Signed)
"J. W. Hovsiro,"Cashier."
"Carrollton Banc,
"..
11 Jew6 Orleans, 7th May, 1841.
"GETLFMEN :-Your application, of date 5th inst., to iransfer
six hundred shares and stock, standing in the name of F. C. Blacl,
by virtue of a poWer-from James Chapman as his assignee, is noted.
The transfer cannot be allowed, because that said stock has been
attached at the suit of J. W Zacharie & Go., served on the 4th
inst., and also for the reason that said stock is pledged to this bank
"Very respectfully,
for a stock l .
"'JoHNr.NIcHaOLSON, Cashier.
(Signed) - "
*"Messrs. J. H. Lrvnaxcu & Co., New Orleans."
On the day when the attachment wai issued, the court appointed
counsel to represent the absent defendant, and on the 12th June,
1841, that counsel filed an answer on behalf of Black, but without
instructions from him.
On the 19th of November, 1841, Black filed a petition praying
that the cause might be removed into -the Circuit Oourt of the
United States, andit was accoxdingly removed.
On the 7th of December, 1841, Black prayed oyr of the bills
of exchange, and Chapman filed a petition of intervention, in which
he set forth the assignment to him by Black on the, 28th of April,
claimed the shares of stock in consequence thereof, and prayed that
the attachment- inight be dissolved. Zacharie & Co., appeared to
the intervention, and denied all the allegations in the petition except
that the stock had been -attached and the case removed.
The notes were filed ihconformity with the prayer for oyer.
On the 28th of December, 1841, Black filed the following ex.
ceptions and answer:
"And now into the- ninth Circuit Court of the United States, fox
the ea stern district of Louisiana, comes Francis C. Black, the defendant in said suit, by his attorneys, and excepts.to the order aid
writ of attachment granted therein,'to the petition and the demand
therein made, and for cause of exception, avers that at the institution of said suit the plaintiffi therein -had no cause of action whatever against this defendant, and that no debt was at the datt of said
suit due by defendant to said plaintiff,. all/of which is apparent by
the petition of said plaintiff, and the *accountand bills of exchange
annexed and referred to ; - wherefore defendant prays that said writ
of attachment be set aside and dismissed, and that said suit be dis.
missed.
-sBut
if the 'said exception be overruled, then this defendant an-

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

487

Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.
swers to said suit, and denies all and singular the allegations in
plaintiffs' petition contained, and denies specially being indebted
to said plaintift as alleged in said-petition; and defendant further
jleads that the bank-stock attached in this case was not, at the date
of said attachment, the property of defendant, or liable to be attached
for any debt by him owing, and that the said stock was then the
property of James Chapman of South Carolina, 'ho became the
owner thereof under a trust-deed for the benefit of all the creditors
bf defendant without distiqction, executed in Charleston, South
Carolifa, on the 28th April, 1841, and'that said stock was delivered
to said Chapman before the issuing of the- attachment in this case.
Defendant further shows that the said trust-deed was executed in
due form of law in South Carolina, where defendant resides, and
that the same is effectual to pass the siid stocks both in said state
where it wasexecuted and in this state.; and that before the attachment in this case, the plaintiffs were notified of Said assignment,.and
that the Gas Bank and the -Carrollton Bank were also notified of
said assignment imniediately after the execution thereof. Wherefore
defendant prays that plaintiffs' demand be dismissed."
On. the 13th of January, 1842, the court overruled these excep-tions.'
In March, 1842,. the cause came on for trial, when the jury on
the 5th of March faund a verdict for the plaintiffs Zacharie & Co.
against the defendant, Black, for the sum of $8000.
A motion for a new trial was made, but overruled.
Before stating the bills -of exception which were taken on the
trial, it is proper to mention that the depositions- of three members
of the bar of South Carolina were read in evidence to'show what
the law was in that state. The following is an extract from that of
J. "That
L. Pettigru..
he, the witness, knows that the said Francis C. Black
im*mediately advised.the plaintiffs in this cause of his assignment, and
that, in consequence thereof, they laid their attachment, for he, the
witness, has seen the letter of the said Francis C. Black to the said
J. W. Zacharie, and the answer to. it, and he advised the ass
ee,
as well as Mr. Black, to inform all the creditors immediately of
what has been done. But by the law and usage of South Carolina,
no act of the cestui que trust, or creditor in whose favour an assignment is made, is necessai T either to entitle them to the benefit of
its provisions, or give validity to the'deed; and that the assignor
and assignee were advised by the witness to give the creditors
notice, because, in a business point of view, it is right andproper
always-to inform a correspondent or creditor of that which concerns
his interest; and because, by an act of Assembly of this state, (sta.
tutes of South'Carolina, vol. 6, p. 365,) it is made the duty of an
assignee to call the creditors- together within ten days afer the execution of'the assignment, to' appoint agents on their part, equal in

4SUPREME

COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

number to the assignee, with equal authority in the execution of the
trust;but if the assignee neglects his duty, the deed is not thereby
invalidated, but the creditors may appoint their agents, and take
the whole property out of the hands of the assignee, and apply the
same according to the provisions of the deed.
""And the witness says tht he has practised in the Courts of
South Carolina for nearly twenty-nine years as a solicitor and. counsellor; and he deems himself'qualified to expressan.opinion on the
law of South Carolina. That, by the common law, as known ad
administrated in-South Carolina, an assignment completely diverts
the property from the execution of the deed, so that it cannot be
questioned by the assignee himself, and, if free from fraud, cannot
be questioned by his creditors or anybody else, and that though
such assignment be made abroad, it passes the property of the
debtor in South Carolina from the instant of its execution, and no
subsequent attachment can disturb the right of The assignee. That
this principle was dented as long ago a the year 1816, in the case
of assignment
Prime . Yates,
TIhat the distinction between
an
of theTreadway,
party and 770.
one by operation of law, was
taken
and recognised in Tophamv. Chapman,
1 Constitutional Report,
283, decided in the year 1817. That this decision was followed in
Brown v. Minis, 1 McCord's Rep. 106, though the point there was,
not considered one of any difficulty, the controversy in that case
turning on other questions involved. But the very question between an assignment of property in South Carolina, executed in
New Yor., in trust for creditors, and an attachment'laid on the property of the assignor in South Carolina after the date of the assignment, was raised in West v. Tapper, in the year 1829, and was
decided in favour of the assignnfent, in which case his honour, Judge
Gilchrist, of the United States Court, then at the bar, was of counsel for West, the assignee: see 1r Bailey, .193. That the question
was made again- in Green v. Maury, decided in the year 1831,
and again decided that -a bona fide assignment'in trust for cr&Hitofs
(though made out of the state, and of the property within the state,)
takes precedence of a subsequent attachment. That since that time
the point has not, as far as witness knows, been questioned, although
property to an immense amount has been passed by such assignments, and' so well settled is the law on the subject, that if-the situation 6f these partie§ was reversed, and the plaintiffs, by a bonafide
assignment in Louisiana,. had conveyed their property in South Carolina, whether consisting of real or personal estate, or choses in
action for the payment of debts, nolawyer of reputaiori could be
found to advise a creditor in this'state to attempt to take the property by a subsequent execution or attachment. That in the case
of the assignment of stocks, though they can only be transferred on
the books of the bank itself, yet the assignee would be entitled to
call for a transfer, and no creditor by any attachment subsequent to

'JANUARY TERM, 1845.

489

Black et a]. v. Zacharie & Co.-

the deed of assignment could prevent the-assignee from taking the
stocks, and disposing of them according to the trusts of the deed,
and that in the decision of the question, it is perfectly immaterial
whether the assighee be in actual possession of the property assigned
when such property is capable of manual delivery, or whether 'the
transfer be completed on the books of the bank when the property
is of such a nature as to require 'such transfer, for in all cases the
right.of property i§ in the assignee from the date of the deed, and
there is- nothinar for the attabhment to act upon.
Mr. McCray says, "that he has read the deposition of Mr. Pettigru, and conicurs fully in the opinion expressed by him."
Mr. Henry Bailey also concurs,, and adds, "that no assent or
other act on th6 part of-the assignee, or -cestui que trust, is necessary
to give validity to an assignment for the benefit of creditors, unless.
such assent or act is made a condition precedent by the express
provisions of the deed ofassigament, in whidh case the conventional
law of the parties supersedes the general law of the land; ttat the
aisignment takes effect from its execution, and although executed
in a foreign country, prevails over a subsequent attachment or assignment in South Carolina; that this principle applies only to
volunthry assignments by the debtor, and -not to assignments by
operation of the foreign laws of a country, such as the bankruptqaw
of England; that-the cases cited byMr.Pettigciu in his f6regoing deposition are of unquestionabl aithority in §outh Carolina, two of
which were reported by this witness when he held the office of State
Rdporter ;. that the same principles have been recognised in various
adjudications since, and are universally regarded by the bar of. this
state as'settled and familiar law."
The following are the bills of exceptions to the ruling of the Court
upon the trl:
"Be it known, that on the trial of this case the plaintiffs offere&
in evidence the following bills of exchange, to wit:
One of 17th February, protested 30th April, 1841, $1500 00
One of 18th February, protested.30th April, 1841, 1500 00
One of 24th February, protested 7th May, 1841,
2000 00
One of 24th Mdrch, protested 3d June, 1841,
2000 00
Qne of 1st April, protested 14th June, 1841,
1088 25
"And be'fore said drafts were offered in evidence, it wa"proved
by the testimony of a witne~s that each of said drafts had been
'negotiated by the plaintiffs; that the two drafts of $1500 each were
returned under protest, and taken up by'the ulaintiffs on the 7th
May, 1841 ; the draft of '$2000, protested on the 7th May, was
returned and taken up on the 17th May, 1841 ; the draft for $2000,
protested on the 3d June, 1841, was returned and taken up on the
10th June, 1841; -and the draft for $1088 25 was returned and
taken up by the plaintifi" on the 30th June, 1841. And before the.
said drafts were offered in" evidence, the said plaintiff also intr6-

.VOL. U]-6.2-

490

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

Auced the-acceunt saklesarked IA-' -the letter- of tle defendant
on file, of date the 28th April, 1841 ; and the deed of assignment
executed in Charlbston on 28th April, 1841. All of which, to wit,
the said bills of exchange, the account sales marked ' A,' the said
letter, and the said assignment, are prayed to be taken as a part of
the bill of exceptions; and the counsel for the defendant thereupon
objected to the said bills of exchange as evidence in this case, and
denied the plaintiffs the right-to- -present them to the jury, on the
groud tha by'said bills
of exchaifge and -aid testimony conected
therewith; it Dilly appearedT flititR-- faebt~dness of defendant to
_pl~intiff,.thus-attempted to beproved, arose after the institution of
-this. suit, and-said-bills -were, consequehtly, no evidence in this
cause ; but the-said objection was overruled, and the plaintiffs were
permitted to present the said drafts and protests to the jury as evidence, and the defendant's 'counsel thereupon took this bill of exceptions. The plaintiff's petition and the acc6unt current annexed
thereto had, before the said bills were offered, been read to the jury
as pleadings, but not as evidence.
"Tno. H. MCCALEB, [S L.]"
' A-great number of leters were then given in evidence, and made
a part of the exception. Some of them have been already quoted;
those which have not, were intended to show an agreement between
Zacharie & Co. and Black, that the former should hold the stock as
security for advances which they alleged themselves to have made
to Black. But the court, by granting the nfinth prayer asked by the
intervenor, decided this point against Zacharie &- Co., whose oumsel 'did not except to the opinion of the court. The papers, therefore, need not be further fioticed.
-The defendant, Black, and the intervenor, Chapman, offered seI
parate prayers to the court, viz. :
The defendant prays the following instructions to the jury:
"1. That the drawing, negotiation, and acceptance of bills of exchange operate a complete transfer of the funds of th drawer in the
hands of the acceptor, up to the amount 6f the bills so drawn and
accepted.
"2. That after the negotiation and acceptance of.such bills, the
drawer 'ceases to be a creditor of the acceptor for the amount
thereof, and has no right of action against the acceptor for said
amount.
"13. That-the-plaintiff's account annexed to this petition, in which
the proceeds of sugar and crtain advances are charged on one side,
and certain bills of exchange are credited on the bther, is:an admission that said proceeds and advances constituted the final
agains which said bills were drawn.
" 4. That if the jury believe,'from the evidence before them, that
such bills have been drawn, negotiated, and accepted, the said
drawing, negotiation, and acceptance transferredto the payee of said

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

491

Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

bills so much of the said fiud against which they were drawn as is
represented by said bills."5. That if the jury believe, from the evidence before them, that
at the date of the institution of this suit the plaintiffs had drawn and
negotiated such bills, and were not then the holders thereof, then the
jury must reject from the plaintiffi' demand the amount of said
bills, although it should have been proved that subsequently to the
institution of this suit, to wit, upon the return of said bills under
protest, the plaintiffs took up the same, and became the owners
thereof.
"16. That-a suit upon an 'account, the items of which consistof the
amounts of certain bills of exchange, and that a suit upon such bills,
cannot be maintained, unless the plaintiff in the suit is the holder
of the bill at the date of the institution of his suit."
The intervenor prays the folloWing instructions:
"11. That a bonafide assignment of property by a debtor for the
equal benefit of all his creditors is not uinlawfuli but is highly favoured by the law.
"12. That the law presumes an assent of creditors to such an assignment, unless their dissent is proved, and that the creditors who
assent acquire, from the date of the assignment, an interest in the
property which cannot be destroyed by a subsequent attachment of
any single creditor.
cc3. That from the date of the assignment the title of the assiganor
is divested, "and the property assigned and delivered is not liabre to
attachment for-hls debts, and that bank stocks are incorporeal rights,
the deriving of which passes by the delivery of the title or act of
transfer.
"14. That if the certificates of the stocks are not in the possession
of the owner, but in the possession of other persons, to whom he has
pledged them, said owner may make a valid transfer, and an effectual and complete delivery of such stock, by delivering to the vendee or assignee a written title to the same, and that such title passes
all the interest of the assignor. V
"15. That the provisions in the charters of the Carrollton and Gas
Banks, to the purport that the transfer of stocks in those banks shall
not be effectual or valid, until entered upon the book&of the banks,
are introduced solely for the protection of the interests of said corporations, and for purposes connected with the elections thereof;
but that said provisions do not in any wise alter or affect the general
laws touching the delivery of incorporeal rights or stocks in said
banks.
"6. That a sale or assignment of stocks in said banks, and the delivering of the title to the same, makes the assignee or vendee the
owner of the same, although the transfer should not have been entered upon the Jooks of the bank, subject only to such rights or
equities as said banks themselves may have or possess upon said

492

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie & 'Oo.

stocks, and that the vendee or assignee may force the bank to enter
-such transfer upon their books.
"'7. That if the jury believe, from the evidence before them, and
especially from the .act of assigument, and the depositions of witnesses taken in Charleston, South Carolina, on file and offered in
evidence, that on the 28th day of April, 1841, the defendant, being
domiciliated in the state of South Carolina, and- being indebted to
sundry persons in the amount stated in said depogitions, and being
the owner of the six hundred and sixty shares of the stock of the"
Carrollton Bank, and five hundred- shares of'the stock of the Gas
Bank, executed and delivered to the intervenor a deed of assign-"
ment of said stocks bonafide,, and for the benefit of all his creditors;
that said stock was, after said date, attached by the plaintiffs; that
no creditor is. shown to have objected to said transfer, except the
plaintiffs; that dther creditors are proved to have excepted; that the
certificates of said stock were not, on the date- aforesaid, in posgession of said. defendant, by reason of his having pledged them respectively to the Bank of South Carolina aid the Carrollton Bank;
that theq the -delivery of said deed of assignment constituted a complete and legal delivery of said stocks to the intervenor for the bene-fit aforesaid; and the.jury must find for the said intervenor.
" 8. That -if the.jury believe, from the evidence, and especially
from the letter of the plaintiffs of date the 5th May, 1841, on, file,
that the plaintiff had been notified of the assignment made as afore'said, and thereupon and afterwards levied an attachment, then that
-suah attachment was invalid, and cannot be sustained.
"19. That the letters of 1". C. Black, dated at.Clarleston, South
'Carolina, on the I1th January, 1837, and at' Macon, Georgia, on
the 13th May, 1837, on file and in -evidence, do not in law amount
to a contract, agreement, or understanding that the stock of the
Carrollton Bank should be held by plaintiffs as a security or.pledge
for the debt claimed by the plaintiffs in this'suit, and that no such
agreement between the defendant and plaintiff (if the jury believe
that any such agreement existed) -can avail in law against the intervenor in this case, representing the other creditors, unless the
jury find from the evidence that such agreement was made in the
form of a pledge, as prescribed in act 3125 of the Civil Code of
Louisiana."'
And afterwards, to -wit, on the 5th March, 1842, the following
bill of exceptions wasl-.fi:IkBe itnown, that on the trial of this case, and after the argument,
the counsel of defendant and the intervenor prayed the instructions
6f 'the court to the jury, to the purport of the written request on file,
'numbered from 1 to 6 for the defendant, and from number No. 1 to
9 for the intervenor; and the court having granted and given to the
jury all the instructions prayed for, except those designated as Nos.
3, 4, 5, 6, and 7,_ piayed by the intervenor; and the .court refused

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

493,

Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

to give-the said charges as demanded, but gave them with the qualification, as to all said instructions,, that the delivery of the stock
was not complete, and did not pass to the assignee, unless the transfer was entered upon the books of the bank; 6nd that the laws of
Louisiana alone, and not the laws of South- Carolina, or the general
commercial law of the' United States, were to be regarded in the decision of this suit; to which qualification the counsel of the intervenor takes this bill of exceptions, and prays that said instructions,
as prayed for, be taken as a part thereof."
On the 24th of March, 1842, Black prayed that a writ of error be
allowed; and tendered' a bond, with James H. Leverich.& .o..as,
securities, in the penal. sum of $500, with a condition that he sh6uld
prosecute his writ of error to effect, and answer all costs. Whereupon the judge issued the following order:
"Be it so; on the petitioner's giving bond, with J. H. Leverich
& Co. as security, as the law directs, in the sum of. five h~undred.
dollars."
Chapman also prayed for a writ -of error, "1and that the said vrit
operate supersedeas of any firther proceedings of J. W. Zacharie &
Co. against the bank stock attached in said cause, and claimed by
your petitioner as plaintiff in said interventionuntil the final decision of the said cause in the Supreme Court of the United States."
Whereupon the judge issued the following order:
"A writ of error is allowed as a supersedeas, on petitioner's giving
bond, conditioned according to law, with J. H. Leverich & Co. on
the same, of five hundred dollars.
(Signed)
Tnno. H. McCzn, U. S. Judge.
.Tiarch 28th, 1842."'
On the next day, viz., the 29th of March, the following order was
passed:
"On motion of George Strawbridge, Esq., for plaintiffs, ordered,
that so much of the order of this' court as grants.a supersedeas to
the intervenor, Chapman, on his giving'bond in the sum of five
hundred dollars, be annulled; the court being of opinion that the
stocks attached are not sufficient security 'fobi said writ .'of super-,
sedeas."
The court afterwards re-opened this matter,' upon motion of Chapman's counsel, but, after hearing an argument, declined to change
the last quoted order, and refused to restore the supersedeas, upon
the ground that the 'bond was considered as insufficient."
Wilde, for plaintiffs in error.
Coxe, -fordefendants in errol.
But before the case was reached in order,
Wilde, on behalf of the plaintiffs in error, moved that this court
2T

494

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

do issue a writ of supersedeas upon the judgment, upon two
grounds:
1. Because, within the time allowed by law, the writ of error had
been prayed for, citation issued, and bond given, with adequate security.
2. Because, before the 'sale of the stocks by the marshal, Black
applied for the benefit of the bankrupt act, to the Distict Court of
South Carolina.
In support of this motion, Mr. Wilde said:
That the court erred- in refusing a supersedeas, we regard it as
settled by Stockton & Moore v. Bishop, 2 Howard, 74.
Nor is it a matter of indifference that the execution should be superseded. It maybe that the stqcks have been sold at a most unfavourabTe period, and bought in by the plaintiffs in attachment themselves.
-Itmay be that they would now satisfy the attaching creditor's demand, and leave a large surplus. Such considerations can weigh
nothing with this court. It is quite enough that we were-entitled to
a supersedeas, and the-court below-refused it.
Your honours will remark the stocks were in the custody of the law.
The fund, therefore, was secure. It was competent for the court
-tu urder a sale of the property, on proof that it was lperishable, or
deteriorating in value.
Against the intervenor no judgment could be given, except for
costs; and a bond for $500, with unquestioned andunquestionable
surety, was undoubtedly sufficient.
That the intervenor is a plaintiff', see 2 Dorret676; the proposition asserted in argument, and hot "denied in this court, in Livingston v. D'Orgenois, 7 Cranch, 581. Our Supreme C'ourt have determined that plaintiffs are bound to
e security only for costs, to entitle them to a us~ensive appeal.
eath & Co. v. Vaught et al., Dougherty & Co. intervenors, 16 L.
R. 520, 1.
Even if the execution has been levied and the stocks sold, the
party is still entitled to restitution. Tidd'sPrac. 1033, 1186,1187;
2 Sa. 588; 2.Bac. Abr. .232'; Cro. Jac. 246, 698.
Upon this preliminary point, Mr. 'Justice STORY delivered the
opunaon of the court.
This is a case coming by writ of error to this court, from the Circuit Court of the eastern district of Louisiana. The case has not as
yet been heard upon the merits, bit a motion has been made in behalf of the plaintiffs in error, (the original defendant and the intervenor,) for a writ of supersedeas to the execution issued upon the
judgment against Blzck, upon two ground§; first, that the execution
issued improvidently, because, within the ten days allowed by law,
the writ of error had been prayed for, citation issued, amid bond given,
with adequate security; secondly, that after the execution issued,

YANUARY TERM, 1845.

495

Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

and certain-stocks had been seized thereon, and,before the sale thereof by the marshal, Black (who is a citizen of SouthCarolina) applied
for the benefit of the Bankrupt Act to the District Cofrt of South
Carolina district, .and was afterwards declared a bankrupt; and an
assignee appointed; and that, in the intermediate period, the marshal
sold the stocks.
Upon examining the record, we find that, although the writ of error had been allowed by the Circuit Court, and a citation issued,
and bond given for prosecution of the writ of error and payment of
costs,, and a supersedeas had afterwards been awarded to stay execution, yet that the court upon the succeeding day revoked that
order, upon the ground that-the stocks attached were not a sufficient
security for the said writ of supersedeas, and that the bond was in-"
sufficient; so that the case does not fall within the predicament provided for in the 22d and 23d sections of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
chap. 20, which entitles the party to a supersedeas and stay of execution, since the-tan only be where, within the ten days aIlowed by
law,' a sufficient'bond is given to prosecute thewrit of error to effect, and also to answer all damages and costs. The judges of the
Circuit Court 'were- the sole and exclusive judges what security
should be taken for that purpose; and they have decided that the
security offered was insufficient.
In respect to the other ground, that of the bankruptcy of Black,
that of itself constitutes no ground why this couit should. interfere to
stay proceedings on the, executi6n, .or-to award a supersedeas. It
is a matter, if at all cognisable, properly cognisable in the Circuit
Court, upon an application and .petition, by the assignee, to that
court, upon a case showing an equitable title to relief;, or for an application to the proper. District Court, sitting in bankruptcy for that
purpose. It is in no respect a matter within the - appellate jurisdiction of this court, upon the present writ of error.
The motion is therefore overruled.
This preliminary motion ha-ing been disposed of, the dause came
on, soon afterwards, for argument upon its main points.

Wilde; for Black and Chapman, the plaintii in error, said:
Two questions are presented by this record.
1st. Had the attaching creditor a-legal cause of action at the
commencement of his suit?
2d. Had there been a sufficient tradition or delivery of the effects
assigned, to divest the assignor of all interest therein before attachment levied?
The last, being decisive of the rights of the parties and merits of
the case will be first considered.
From the statement of the plaintiffs in error, the court will perceive that this is a controveisy between an assignee under an assign-

496

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie &-Co.

ment made for the equal benefit of all the creditors, and an attaching
creditor who seeks to obtain priority of payment by legal diligence.
The assignment was made in South Carolina. The assignor and
as.ignee ire resident citizens of that state. The subject of assignment is-an interest in the stocks of certain banks incorpordted by
the state of Louisiana. 'The attaching-creditor is a domiciled-merchant of New Orleans, where the attachment issued. He had express
,notice of the assignment before issuing his attachment. Indeed, he
issued it in consequence of receiving that notice. The assignment
was made on the 28th of April, 1841. The attachthent levied on
the 4th of May.
The evidence of Pettigru, and ihe letters of F. C. Black, and
Zacharie & Co., show the notice.
- At the date of the assignment, the scrip or certificates of property
in the stocks referred to were in the hands of third persons, to whom
they had been pledged. Their delivery to the assignee was therefore impossible. Before the attachment, application was made by
the pledgee to obtain a transfer It waq refused, o the ground of
some infimality in.the power of attorney, though the cashier of the
Gas Light and Banking Company, so refusing, admits it might have
•satisfid persons less rigid than himself, and before a transfer rould
be effected, the attachment was levied.
It is obvious, at the first glance, -that in any other state than
Louisi na the question thus presented would not bear a moment's
argument. Personal property., having no locality, but. adhering to
the person of the own er, passes according to the law of his domicil;
and whefi it is shown that the assignment by the law of South Carolina would transfer the interest of Black in the stocks assigned.
simply by the execution and delivery of the deed, all doubt-is at an
end. See the evidence of Pettigru, McCrady, and Bailey, as'to the
effect of this assignment, according to the laws of Carolina.
'Even assignments preferring -some creditors to others have been
repeatealy held good. Brooks v. Marbury, 11 Wheat, 78,98; Tomkins v; Wheeler, 16 Peters; 106, and the cases there .cited. Such
preferences are not fraudulent unlesp uder a baikrupt law. Conard
v. Nicoll, 4 Peters, 297.
With respect. to the general principle the authorities are stiperahundant. Story's Conflict of Laws,- 312, 315, 317, 330, 332;
Angel on Assignmeriti, 57; Milne v. Moreton, 6 Binney, 361;
Hunter v: Potts, 4 T. R: 192; Lewis v. Wallis, 7 Jones, 223; Sill
v. Worsi.ick,.1 H. Black. 691;. West v. Tupper, 1 Bailey, 193;
Greene v. Monsey, 2 Bailey, 163; Robinson v. Ralielye, 2 Stewart,
86 ;.Holmes v;.Remsen, 4 Johns. Ch. R. 460 ; Means v. Hapgood,
19 Pick. 105 ;, Meeker et al. v. Wilson, 1 .Gall. C C. R: 419. r ,
His honour, the district judge, seems, indeed to admit the general
.law as we state it, by saying in his bcharga that "the laws of Louisi
an alone, and not the law of-South Carolina, or the general com-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

497

Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

-

mercial law of the United States, were to be regarded in the ddcisiohL
of this suit; and that, according to the law of Louisiana, the delivery of the stocks was not complete, unless the transfer was entered
on the books of the bank."
The rule thus broadly laid down we humbly contend is erroneous, and we shall attempt to showFirst, that the law of South Carolina, where the contract was
made, is to be regarded. Next, that the delivery of the effects assigned was complete, even according to the law of Louisiana.
That the lex loci contractus is adopted as the rule of decision by
the courts of most civilized nations is incontrovertible. Story's
Conflict of Laws, Bank U. "S.b. Donally, 8 Peters, 372. The
charge of his honour, the district judge, however, evidently proceeds upon the assumption either that it is not the rule' of the
courts of Louisiana, 'or at least-is so only under such restrictions
and qualifications as render it inapplicable to a case like the present.
At a very early period in the history of those courts, we find them
laying, down the law thus: "The nature, validity, and effects of
this contract, must be inquired into mccording to the laws of the
country in which it was celebrated, even when the delivery of the
thing, or the A~ct stipulated for, is to take place abroad." Lynch.
v.Postlethwaite, 7 Mart. 69, citing 1 Gallison, 375;
Ten years later; the Supreme Court, after carefully reconsidering
their opinion, reaffirm it, in a decision justly characterized as most
learned and masterly. "Upon the whole," say they, "we must
conclude, as we did in Morris v. Eves, and Vidal v. Thompson,
that contracts are governed by the law of the country in which they
were made, in every thing which relates to th6 mode of construing
them, the meaning to be attached to the expressions by which the
parties bound themselves, and the nature and validity of the engagement." Depau v.Humphreys, 8 New Series, 1. And accordingly
they determine, "1.that in a note executed here, on a loan of money
made here, the creditor may stipulate for the legal rate of conventional interest authorized by our law, although such a rate be disallowed in the place at which .payment is to be made."--Ibid. Vide.
Morris v. Eves, 11 Mart. 730; Shift' v. Louisiana State Insurance
Co., 6 N. S.629; Brown v. Richardson, 1 N. S.202; Oriy v.
Winter, 4 N. S.277.
In Thatcher v. Walden, 5 N. S.495, 3 Cond. R. 633, the court
held that a verbal power of attorney, if given in a state where slaves
pass by parol, is legal proof of the authority under which a written
sale was made in this state. In delivering this decision, they employ the strongest lango-age:
"There is no dierence," say they, "between the right of a
stranger to have 'te aid of the laws of the country where his debtor
resides, to compel him to do justice in relation to a contract made
under another govetament, and that of one citizen of a state to en2
VoL. I -- 63
T2

498

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharie &-Co.

force his claim against another. This principle, which is founded
on the comity of nations, and makes a part of international law,
would -be a mere illusion, if other evidence was required for the
validity of the agreeirent, that that of the laws of the country where
it was made."
The same- doctrine has since been repeatedly affirmed, liable only
to the limitations -given to it in the case of Saul v. his creditors,
5 N. S. 569, which will be considered hereafter. Vide Miles v.
Oden et al., 8 N. S. 214; Chartres v. Cairnes et al., 4 N. S.1 ;
Bell v. James, 6 N. S. 74; King v. Herman's heirs, 6 L. R. 616;
Andrews v. his' creditors, 11 L. R. 476; Ohio Insurance Co. v.
Edmondson et al., 5 L. R. 299.
It will scarcely be denied, indeed, that the lex loci contraclus is
adopted by the courts of Louisiana as their rule of decision, although
it may be contended that this adoption is subject to such restrictions
and qualifications as deprive the'intervenor of: all benefit from it, in
a case like the present.
These restrictions are supposed to have been defined and estab,
lished in a number.of cases, some of them turning on the question
of delivery.
(Mr. Wilde then exhmined with great minuteliess the Louisiana
decisions,) ,
In considerifig this branch of our subject, it will be remarked by
the court, that we have thus far confined our citations to the decisi6ns of Louisiana only.
We have studiously abstained from all others, because, as. we
alleged in the outset, except as to Louisiana, this cannot be considered an open question; and the court are so well .aware of the
English and American authorities on the subject, that it would be a
waste of time to quote them.
-Notbing but the deference which this court habitually and uniformly exhibits, for the adjudications of the local tribunals, in its
anxiety to administer justice between citizens of different states,
pfeoisely as-it is alministered between citizens of the same state,
Could have induced us to restrain our argument within such narrow
boundaries.
We think it is. apparent, from the local - decisions, that we are
protected by the private law of nations, even as adopted in its most
limited sense by the courts of Louisiana.
But. if-we are not, surely there never was a more fit and proper
occasion, nay, never a moie papable and pressing necessity, for this
court to assert its own. unquestionable right of judgment, in opposition, if it must be so, to the state tribunals.
The question is one of internatial law; of the greatest practical
consequence to us, as part of the family of nations, and of infinitely
more impoi'tance, considering our country as a c6nfederacy of states.
It is one regarding the Application of the lexloci contractus, on which

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

499

Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

all Europe and Anierica have spoken -with one common voice-; and,
Louisiana, if indeed her decisions are adverse, is the only recusant.
- How far those decisions, supposing them to trench upon received
principles, are atisfactory to.the common sense and justice of mankind, may be readily ascertained by a cursory reference to the
treatises" of learned and accomplished jurists.,
Tle orily'respectable authority opposed to the doctrines-we have
advocated, is the case of Ingraham v. Geyer, 13 Mass. R. 146;.148,
much relied on by our adversaries in the court below.
That casel.however, was never generally satisfactory to the profession, has often leen questioned, and was finally overruled by the
recent case of Means v. Hapgood, 19 Pickering, 105. In the latter
case it was decided, that vhere a citizen of -Maine executed a.assi6gnment in that state, .to 'certain-of his creditors, of a debt due to
him from a citizen of that' commonwealth, and the creditors having
claims to an amount exceeding such debt, became -parties -to the
assignment,.it was held that the assignment was valid against a subsequent attachment of the debt here, by a citizen of Massachusettsi
notwithstanding the courts of Maine had decided that a similar assignment made in this commonwealth was invalid against a subsequent attachment of the assigned property in Maine, by a citizen of
that state..
It may be that we deceive ourselves as to the force of these arguments. It may be that they are unsound.
We turn then.to the second point, and shall endeavour to maintair that, even according to the municipal law of Louisiana, there
had been a sufficient tradition or delivery -of the stQcks ssigned, to
divest the assignor of all interest therein, before the attachment of
Zacharie & Co. wa's levied. . Itis cheerfully admitted, at the outset,'that, in relation to movables, things personal and- tangibl6, the maxim .traditionibus nron
pactis has been adopted by the courts of Louisiana, and adhered to
in a variety of cases in its full extent and rigoi. Durnford v. Syndics of Brooks, 3 -Mart.222 ; Norris v. Munford, 4 Mart. 20; Ramsey v. Stevenson, 5"Mart. 23; Louisiana Code, art. 1917.
If the property assigned and attached in this case had been goods
and chattels, movables, capable of actual manual possession and
delivery, assuredly we should not venture to argue that,. according
to the municipalAaw -of Louisiana, tradition'was not necessary.
That-point has been settled by too long a series of judicial' decisions
to be now contested.' But the effects convyed by this assignment
are altogether of a different rature. They are mere incorporeal
rights, invisible, intangible, unsubstantial, and incapable, from their
very nature, of any other than a symbolical delivery.
This distinction is recognised by several articles of the Louisiana
Code. Thus:
Art. 462. Incorporeal things, consisting only in a right, are not

600

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al. v. Zacharic & Co.

of themselves strictly susceptible of the quality of movables or immovaliles: nevertheless, they are placed -in one or other of these
classes, according to-the object to which they relate, and the rules
hereifibefore established.
Art. 3395. Possession applies properly only to corppreal things,
movable or immovable. The possession of incorporeal rights,
such as servitudes and other rights of that nature, is only quasi possession, and is exercised by the species of possession of which these
rights are susceptible.
Art. 2612. In the transfer of debts, righfs, or claims, to a third
person, the delivery takes place between the transfer and the transferee by the giving of the title.
Art. 2613. The transferee is only possessed as- it regards third
persons after notice has been given to the debtor of the transfer
having taken place.
Art. 2457. The tradition of incorporeal rights is to be made by
the delivery of the titles, and of the act of transfer, or by the use
made by the purchaser with the consent of the seller.
Art. 466 expressly classes bank shares as movables. They are,
therefore, incorporeal things, movable. Vide, also, art. 467.
We contend, then, that these articles of the code allow the symbolical delivery of incorporeal rights, givin'g to it the same validity
that attaches to the actual manual -radition of things tangible. Indeed; if this were not so, it would seem to follow, that incorporeal
rights were insusceptible of any delivery at all,
In the execution of our task, it will be Yequisite to consider a
number of judicial decisiong, touching the subject of tradition, and,
by a brief but critical examifiation of each, we hope to show that,
in relation to'incorporeal rights, nothing more has been" required' to
vest them in the assignee than what the assignee in the present case
has fully performed.
. The earliest case decided is that of Durnfordv. Brooks's Syndics,
3 Mart. 222, 269,, 1 Cond. R. 112.
(Mr. Wlde then examined the Louisiana cases upon this point.)
T
he argument has hitherto been-conducted according to the assumption of the district judge, that- this is to be regarded as an
assignment of stocks. but such assumption is surely mistaken.
The stocks themselves'had in both instances been already assigned
as security for other debts, and the certificates at the time were
actually in possession of the- pledgees. The Carrollton scrip was
in pledge to that bank, as security for what is technically termed a
stock note, and the Gas Light Company's scrip was -ia pledge to
the Bank of South Carolina. In both instances, therefore, nothing
remained to be assigned, nothing was subject to assignment, but an
equitable right in an incorporeal thing-a right to redeem the thing
by. paying the sum due on it-an equity of redemption in the stock,
not the sto~k itself. This view of thc.subject makes it clear to us,

-

JANUARY

TERM, 1846.

501

Black et aL v. Zach rie & Co.

that the district judge erred, and his error consisted -in-applying to
a mere equity; a law regulating .nothing but the actual transfer of,
the incorporeal thing.
If we are correct in holdipg that the bnly-interest asigned; or
susceptible of assignment, vfas an equitable right in.an incorporeal
thing--i right to redeem thestock by paying the sum for which it
was ledged-it follows as a necessary consequence, that the subject
matter of this assignment no longer belongs to the category of public
stocks, 'transferable only in.a peculiar mode, but falls into the general class of debts and credits Which the common law terms choses in
action, or more properly, as w&-contend, into that of jnborporeal
rights, which pass by the delivery of the titles, and of the act of
transfer. [Vide art. 2457 and 2612, 2613, ante.4 With respeft to
the former, we have seen that no tradition or delivery is possible':
none is required. Notice to the debtor stands hi the place of delivery. The debt is liable to be attached so long as the" debtop has
not had notice of its assignment. After such notice, it is:no longer
subject to attachment. Gray v. Trafton, 12 Mart. 702; Armor v.
Cockburn et al., 4 N.. S. 667; Bainbridge v. Clay,. 4 N. S. 56;
Carlin v. Duma-ait, 4 N. S; 20; 'I~andal v.Moore et al., 9 Martin,
403; CQx v.. White, 2 Louis. R. 425.
1 But here is certainly in strictness no debt due from the bank.
The corporation, to be sure, at the end of its. charter,, is .to return
the stock to its stockholders, pr, more .properly speaking, to divide
its assets, whatever they may be. But until dissolution the amount
of these cannot be ascertained; and if there should be no assets
there is no debt.
'The only class, therefore, into which the s.bjeetzmatter of this
assignment can fall;, is that of ".incorporeal- thigs, 'consisting only
in a right." "thetra d itio n 'of which is complete by the" mere deArticles 462 and
livery-of the titles, ana of the, act. of transfer.'
2457, ante; and also art. 1918, which is as follows:
* '(What shall be considered a deliver3zf possession is determined
by the rules of law applicable to the situation and. nature of theproperty."
Now, we-hav:e seen that-incorport-al..things; though not setriig-_7
susceptible of the quality, of movables or immovables,-fall i'td
one or the other class, according to the object to which they relate.
Vide ante, art, 462, Louisiana Code.
The effects here assigned b'elong clearly to the class of*rights,claims, incorporeal things personal.
The tradition of incorporeal rights personal, is held to be complete by art. 2457, when there is a delivery of the titles and of the
act of transfer. Vide ante, art. 2457, Louisiana Code.
Here the delivery of the titles \vas complete, if that means thecomplete divesture of, the original owner's title; if"
it means, as we
suppose, the title papers, the scrip was in the hands of third per-

502

SUPREME'COURT.
"Blaci et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

sons, and incapable of delivery; and' the right actually conveyed,
not Jbeing the stock itself, but an equity of reaemption in the stock,
there were no other titles to be delivered but the act of transfer.
An examination of two. or three cases, which are supposed to
press most strongly against the plaintiffsin error, is incumbent on us.
Graves et al. v. Roy, 13 Louis. Rep. 454,457, was decided on
the ground that the assignment imposing the condition of a'release;
dnd inuring to the benefit of such creditors only as should comply
with this condition, was oppressive and void, even on commoh law
principles, as well because it did -not appear to be a, conveyance of
the- debtor's property, as because certain claims, not alleged.to
be fraudulint, were excluded.
Townsend v. The Louisiana State Marine' and Fire Insurance
Company, "13Louis. R.'551, 554, turned upon -lhe fact that the assignment was made in Loifisiana, and gave a preference to some
creditors, over others.
Kjmliall v. Plant et al., 14 Louis. Rcp, 10, 1.3, was decided upon
the express provisions of the Louisiana Code, that in the transfer of
debts, the transferee is possessed as it regards third persons only,
after notice Las been given to the debtor of the transfer having taken
place.
In the ease of Beirne & Barnside v. Patton et al., 17 Louis. Rep.
'589, 591, the court do undoubtedly lay down, broadly, that, as -relates to the rights and remedies of creditors, personal property has
a situs or 1locality, and is to be governed by the law of the country
Where it is situated, when there arises a conflict between.the latter
and'the forner.
Tle -wisdom of determining only what is necessary to.decide the
rigtts of the partie ,.andthe danger of proceeding arguendo to settle
points neither, cardinal nor fully discussed, was.never more apparent
than inthis ease, and your lhonours in considering it will take care to
separate the judgment of the court -from the dicta-that accompany it.
-There were at least three points on which'the judgment there
rendered might be placed, without-,*t all'invold'g the very'doubtful
Canon above quoted.
1st. The assignment was one giving a preference to some creditors over others., .
2d1y. It did not appear that it was valid, even by the laws of
Tennessee, where it was made.
3dly. It distinctly appeared that the debtor reserved a part of his
property.

The decision moraeover seems, to some extent at least, to be based
on the authority of ingraham v. Geyer, 13 Mass. R. 146, since overruled by Means v. Hapgood, 19 Pickering, 105; and is apparently
in conflict wit-Depon v.'Humphreys, 8 New Seiies,.1, already
cited-a case' of the highest authority,
If, therefore, we apply to the case at bar the rule either of McNeil

JANUARY-TERM, 1845.
Black et al. v. Zacharie &'Co.

503

v.Glass, I N. S. 261, before cited, or that of Armor v. Cockbum,
4 N. S. 667, it will appear that Black had so completely diested
himself of tifle as to satisfy the exigency of the first decision, and
so entirely lost all power over the property as 'to be incapable of
changing its destination, and therefore within the principle of the
second. In other words, ithe original owner of the property could
no longer sell ind deliver, so as to-p~ss a good title." "He had
lost all power over it, and could no longer change its' destination ;"
and consequently, "the creditor could no ibnger seize." Vide ante,
the quotations from the cases of McNeil v. Glass, and Armor ip.
Cockburn. Vide also, Babcock v. Maltbie, 7 N. S. 137; and Urie
v.Stevens. 2 Robinson's L-uis. Rep. 253.
Nor is there any thing contrary to this in the United States Bank
v.Laird, decided by this court, 2 Wheat. 393, for in that case the
court recognise the possibility of acquiring an equitable title -without
transfer on the books of the bank-subject, of course, io ahy lien
which the bank itself may possess.
As the distinction'between equitable and legal titles does not prevail in Louisiana, where any just title is sufficient, and as no attachment can be sustained if the equitable tit"has passed out of the
defendant in attachment before it was levied, it follows that anassignment of the equity, such as is contemplated by the court in
the United States Bank v. Laird, is suficient to defeat a subsequent
attaching creditor.
Courts of common law even- protect in certain cases the assignment of choses in action. Welch v. Mandeville, 1 Wheat. 213;
S. C. 5 Wheat. 283; Corser v. Craig, I Wash. C. C. R. 424,427,
The second point, viz.: "Had the attiching creditor a legal
cause of action at the commencement of his. suit?" need not detain
us long
We contend that the drawing, negotiation, and adceptance of the
bills amounted to an assignment of the fund against which they were
drawn.' Chitty on Bills, 1, 2; 3 Kent's Com. 75; 2 Black. 466;
Mandeville v. Welsh, 5 Wheat. 286.
Zacharie & Co. ceased to be creditors of Black from the moment
of the acceptance of the bills. There remained a contingent liability to pay them, if they should-be regularly protested for non-payment
and due notice given; but this did not make them creditors of Black,
nor even his sureties: Then, at the. institution of the suit, there was
no debt due by the defendant to the yplaintiff. Taylor v. Drane,
13 Louis. Rep. 64; Pothier on Obligations, 235, and note.
An endorser who has not paid his endorsee is not a creditor.
Planters' Bank v. Lanusse, 10 Martin, 690.
Credit given in an account current for a note extinguishes the
account and produces a novation. -Cox v. Williams, 7 N. S. 301 ;
Barron v. Horr, 2 N. S. 144; Gordon et al. v.McCarty, 9 Mart.

-288.

504

SUPREME COURT.
Black.et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

Here the bills were credited in the account.
The mode of ascertaining whether there was any existing debt
at the time of attachment is to inquire wh'ther, considering it a case
of bankiuptcy, Zacharie & -Co. could have proved against the
bankrupt's estate, before payment of the bills.
There cannot be two creditors for the same debt, entitled both to
prove at the same time.
Now, the holder of the hills would clearly have been entitled to
Irove; and, consequently, Zacharine & Co. would not..
Their debt revived when they paid the amount of the bills,'nat
'before.
These principles have become proverbial: " Qui a terme ne doit
gien." Loysel, Evans's Pothier on Obligations. " Quod in ditem
stipulamur, peti prius quam dies venerit non potest." Justin. Inst.,
by Cooper, p. 9249.
If, by any interpretation, Zacharie & Co. can be considered creditors at the time of commencing their action, this debt was not due,
and their suit was premature. Louis. Code, art. 2047; Code of
Pract., art. 158; Groning v.Krumbhaur, 13 Louis. Rep. 64; At-"
well v. Belden, 1 Louis. Rep; 504; Williamson v. Foucher, 8 Louis.
Rep. 585.
Coxe, for the defendants iilerror, recapitulated the facts in the
case, and then'saidThe questions presented by the record are:
1. Whether, on the 4th May, 1841, any debt was in fact due byBlack to plaintiffs.
2. Whether the deed of assignment, per se, operated a transfer
of the -stock.
3. Whether, if such debt actually existed on whiich suit could be
sustained,'the attachmentlaid on the 4th May, or the assignment of
28th April is to prevail.
1. Whether, on the 4th May, 1841, Black was indebted to plaintits.
By the account sales of sugar and molasqes, it appears that quchsales were made of a cargo, consigned by Zacharie & Co.' (to
Black,) net -proceeds subject to their order for account of whom it
may concern.
This account rendered by Black on the 12th April, 1841, shows
a balance due plaintiffs of 49366 68.
The account shows that the proceeds were the property of plaintiffs; the average time of payment 27th to 30th April; and, consequently, the notes given by purchasers were the property of plaintiffs
held by Blak as their agent.
In this position of affairs, plaintiffs drew several bills on Black, in
February, Maich, and April, and what became of them is shown by
the record. None of these bills appear on their face to have been,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

505

Black et al. v. Zacharie "& Co..

accepted by Black; but, in the protests of some, three of the five,
he is called the acceptor. "All were returned under protest for nonpayment, and-taken up by plaintiffs after the institution of the suit;.
It is insisted that the drawing of these-bills operated a transfer of
the debt, and, as between these parties, extinguished the original
tihbility"

The drawing of bills by a connignor and his consignee, is a matter of daily occurrence in the immense business of New Orleans;
advances are thus made by the purchasers of such bills i and they
are of infinite convenience. To regard them as operating an.extinguishment of the debt'of th consignee, before payment, is a novel
octrine, replete with the most serious consequences..
This extinguishment of the *old debt by the substitution of a fiew
one, is called, in'the Louisiana law, a novation.
.Wherever this doctrine of novation e4lits, 'dider whatever na.me,
the application of it depends upon the intention of the parties as
exhibited in their acts.. Nap. Code Civil, lib. iii. tit. iii. sect. 2,
§ 1273., It is never to be -presuued-it is essential that the intention to operate it result clearly from the act. Peter v. Beverley,
10 Peters, 568.
It is a settled doctrine that the acceptance of a negotiable note
for an antecedent debt will not extinguish such debt, unless it is
expressly agreed that it is received as payment.' The evidence must
be clear and satisfactory that such was the intention of the parties.
This is a much stronger case than the acceptance of a negotiable"
note; the drawer of the bill does not disconnect himself from the
debtor. His responsibility remains to the holder. See the three
cases of novation, Nap. Code, N. S.
The acts of the parties show that they had no such intention.
1st. Plaintiffs do not assign their claim for a valuable consideration
and exbnerate themselves from it.
So -far 'from such a bill dissolvin* the connection between -the
parties, it presumes its existence and continuance. If 'drawee refuses to-accept, drawer may sue and recover for such act. If he
refuses to pay, he has a fill remedy growing out of the original
indebtment.
2d. Black neyer so regarded or tieated it.
1. In his account dated 12th April, 1841, no entry is made of
these bills and acceptances; no credit claimed; but the balance
growing out of the sale of sugars, &c., distinctly stated and admitted.
2. In his schedule of creditors, annexed to the assignment to
Chapman, Zacharie is put down as one, and McDonald, the payee
and holder of bills, is not.,
3. His letter of 28th April so treats plaintifT, and particularly
mentions the drafts about to fall due.
4. Black's books, as proved by Pettigru, show the same-thing.
VOL. II.-64
2U

506

SUPREME COURT.
Blacket a]. v. Zacharie & Co.

Throughout, such appears to be the understanding of the parties.
Such, then, being the mercantile- usage, such the particular understanding of these parties, what does the law say? Civil Code, at.
2181.
Novation is a contract, consisting of two stipulations, one to extinguish an existing oblioation, the other to substitute a new-one mi
its place. Pothier on 6blig., 341, (550,) 344, (559,) Ciiil Code,
art. 2183, 2185, 2190. The mere indication by the creditor of a
person who is to receive for him does not operate a novation. Pothier, Traite de Vente, No. 600, 603. Touiller, Le Droit Civil,
(5me. edit.) vol. 7, lib. iii. tit. iii. c. 5, p. 243, 4. Ibid. 66, No..
46. 19 Sircy Recueil General, 55, 56, 57.
In Louisiana the law'is well settled by adjudications. Cox v.
Rabaud's Syndic, -4 Martin, 11; Hobsoh v. Davidson's Syndic,
8 Martin, 428 ; Gordon v. McCarty, 9 Martin, 268 ; Bonrmere v.
•Negretti, 16 Louis. 474 ; Plique v. Perret, 19 Louis. 318.
2. Does the assignment operate; .per se, as tiansfer of the. stock.
1st. 'The assignment, &c., does not act, per-se, as a transfer of
stock in Louisiana banks.,
. 2d. Black dxecutes two powers of attorney, one 15th April, 1841,
to transfer to the Bafik of South Carolina; the other = April, acknowledaed on 30th.
3d. These powers indicate no person by name, but merely. give
the power to "the cashier, &c." This is invalid 6f itself.,
The charters of the Louisiana banks are not imbodied in the
record, but the substance of them is imbodied in the instructions
prayed.
. If such instruction was' not warranted by the evidence, it was
riglfly refused. The modern charters of banks have copied substantially the provisions on this subject, in that of the Bank of
England. An abstract of that charter may be found, 3 Petersdorff's
Abr. 276, 285, 286, Amer. edit.; Bahk of the United States, 3 Sto.
,Laws U. S. 1547, 1552; Rex v. Bank of England, Dougl. 524
It clearly appears that the transfer on the book is necessary to pass
title. g Bing. 393; 3 Petersdorff, 268, (410.)
It is incumbent on banks not to permit a transfer until satisfied
of authority to transfer. If they err, they are bound to male good
the loss. Sutton v. Bank of England, 1 Carr. & Payne, 193; S. C.
1 Ryan & Moody, 52.
Action' will lie against the bank for unreasonable delay in permitting transfer. Hartgayv. Bank of England, 3 Ves. 55 ; Bank of
England v. Parsons, 5 Vs. 665, See tis last case particularly.
If. this stock stood upon the common footing of other personal
property, in the hands of third persons, it would not pasi until he
was notified. Here no notice was given until the 5th May; the attachment had been laid on the 4th.

YANUARY TERM, 184.
et'al. v.-Zacharie & Co.

WY

Black

The power 'of attorney to- transfer mentions no party by name.
They designate "the cashier, &c.1 "This is a void authority. 3. The attachment issued and levied on the 4th May, 1841,
takes precedence of the assignment.
The question is one of deep interest to the commercial part of
Louisiana, and settled by her courts.
Whatever may be the general commercial law, Louisiana has her
-own law.
In this cage th6 question is between an attaching creditor and a
voluntary asignee. An attaching creditor is a purchaser for a
valuable consideration. Langran v. Simmons, 17 Mass.. 110.
* It is then a case of a purchaser of -such a charshter, with all the
equity, now possessed of legal title.
The legal title does not pass without a transfer on the books of the
corporation. 22 Wendell; 2 Wheat.
It is said this point would not admit of argument out of-Louisiana.
There seems a singular misapprehension on this point.
*By the common law, delivery is a geiieral essential to the passing
of tide to personal property. Statutes of Elizabeth, 1 Gallis. 428;
17 Mass. 110.
Here the Louisiana property is to be carried to a foreign.state for
listribution, and Louisiana creditors to follow it there. This is
.gainst the policy of the state, and required by no comity.
In regard to intestates. Conft.of- Laws, 523.
The law in regard to stocks is peculiar. Conft. of Laws, 383,
note. Emphatically the law of Louisiana and of France. Pothier,
Traite de Vente, 186, part 5, art. 2; sect. 318, &c. ; 5 Martin, 43,
75, 57; 4 Martin, 20; 2 Louis. 422; 14 Louis. 10; 12 Louis.
395; Story, Confi. of Laws, 386-390.
Wilde, in reply, examined, in thi Jlrst place, whether there was
an existing debt due from Black, at the time of laying the attachment. If the proof of such a- debt did not rest upon the bills of exchange, because, (as had been argued by Mr. Coxe) they were not
accepted, then we must look elsewhere for it, because merely drawing
upon a person does not make him-a debtor. - The prbof of an existing debt can only be discovered (leaving out the bills) in-1. The
account sales. 2. The letter of Black. 3. The evidence of Pettigru.
(Each head of which was separately examined by Mr. Wilde.)
If, on'the other hand, the bills were accepted, then there was a
novation 6f.the debt, and not amere delegation.
Zacharie & Co. had notice of the assignment, as appears from
Black's letter to them. The Gas Light Bank had notice- also of the
claim of the Bank of South Carolina; and the Carrollton Bank could
not be injured by the want of notice, because they held the scrip in
pledge.
The whole object of notice, is to prevent injury to the debtor,

508

SUPREME COURT.
Black et a]. v. Zacharie & Co,

holder of the property, or depositary; to prevent an innocent person.
from two recoveries against him for the same cause.
But here the one bank Lad express notice from the pledgee, (Bank
of South Carolina.) The other held the scrip in pledge for its own
debt.. Neither could be prejudiced.
So far as the reason of the case goes, the maxim applies, 11 cessante
ratione, cessat et ipsa lex."
It was distinctly admitted at the outset, that by the law of Louisiana, absolute tradition of personal property was necessary to protect
it from attachment.
It was equally admitted that, as to debts assigned, they remained
liable to attachment, until notice of the assignment had been given to
the debtor. After such notice, they cannot be attached.
But it was contended, and is .still insisted, that the equity of fedemption in certain stocks in pledge is neither a personal thing, tangible and susceptible of tradition or delivery, nor is it a debt which
requires notice to be given to the debtor. It belongs to the category of incorporeal things movable.
The learned "ceunsel errs, in supposing the articles of the Code,
quoted in the opening, refer to 'what are called; by the common law,
incorporeal hereditaments.
On the contrary, incorporeal things, by the Louisiana law. are
classed into movable and immovable. Art. 462, L. Cf.
Arid aticle 466 expressly declares bank stoe.ks to be movables.
The equity of redemption assigned in this case, then, is neither a
thing movable, susceptible of manual traditi6n, nor is it a debt,
which, in order to pefect the assignee's, title, requires notice to be
given to the debtor.
There is no article of-the Code- no decision of the courts of Louisiana., which requres manual tradition, which is impossible,.or notice
to the bank, which is unnecessary, as the bank is not a debtor.
But the court are asked to extend the principle by analogy.
There is no room for such analogy.
On the contrary, the analogy and-reason of the thing are the other

way.
Art. 3395, Louisiana Code, gays possession applies properly only
to corporeal things movable or immovable.
Art.-2612, as to' debts, makes notice equivalent to tradition; but
Art. 2457 declares that'the tradition of incorporeal rights is to be
made by the delivery of the titles, and of the act of transfer.
I No distinction is made between incorporeal rights'to things
movable and things inmdvable. All incorporeal rights may be so transferred. Vide.Martinez v. Perez, 8 Mat. N. S. 668.
Here every thing -was done that could be done. The scrip w.as
iii the hands of the pledgees. That could not be delivered to the
assignee; because the" assignee had neither possession of it nor control over it.

JANUARY TERM, 184.

50W

Black et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

Immediate notice was given to the creditor, Zacharie & Co., and
in consequence of that 3iotice he issued the attachment.
Notice was given to the banks as early as possible, and the Gas
Bank had notice of the lien of the Bank of South Carolina before the'
attachment issued.
Neither the Louisiana Code nor the decisions of the courts sustain
the attempt to declare this assignment void, for want of delivery of
the effects assigned.
Nor is it sup-posed the judge rested his charge on the public or
general law.
The argument of the learned counsel certainly reposes mainly on
the clauses of the charters.
(Mr. Wlde here referred to the charters, and cited the following
cases: Bank of Utica v. Smalley & Barnard, 2 Cowen, 77, 778;
Sergeant v. Franklin, 8 Pick. 96, 97; Gilbert v. Manchester Iron Co.,
11 Wend. 628; Commercial Bank v. Kortwright, 22 Wend. 362.-)
The case of the United States Bank v. Laird, 2 Wheat. 393, shows
.that the court recognise the possibility of acquiring an equitable title,
without a transfer on the books of the bank.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of'the United States for
the eastern district of-Louisiana. The original suit was brought in
the state court, against Black ftoned apon an attachment issued by
Zacharie.& Company dgainsthim, he being a citizen of South Caro.liffa, and nbt resident in Louisiana; and upon this attachment certain
shares of Black, in the Carrollton Bank, and the Gas Light and
Banking Company, in Louisiana, were attached, to answer the exigency of the writ.* Black appeared in the suit, and caused it to' be
removed into the CircuitCourt. Black, upon his appearance, pleaded that prior to the attichmehit he hhd assigned the attached stock
t6 Jamis Chapman, of South -Carolina,*by a trust:deed, for the be-nefit of all his creditors. A.fter'the removal ot -he suit intb the Circuit Court, Chapman filed an intervention, according to the Louisiana practice, and became a party to the suit to protect his interest
under the trust-deed. In his petition of intervention he asserted his
title, and that he had given due notide thereof to the Jarrollton Bank,
and the Gas Light and Banking Company; and that Zaearie & Co.
had due notice thereof before their attachment.
The cause was tried by a jury-upon the pleadings in the case; and
upon the trial-it'was proved that the assignment was made by the
trust-deed in South Carolina, by Black to Chapmap,- on the .28th of
April, 1841. The attachment of Zacharie & Co. was made on-the
4th of May, 1841, with a fullknowl6dge of the assig nent. Long
before the attachme it the stock ii the Carrollton Bank had been
transferred and pledged to the Carrollton Bdnk, for a stock loan, and
was then held by that bank, under that transfer, the equity'of re2u2

510

SUPREME COURT.
Black et a]. v.Zacharie & Co.

deiming the same only remaining id Black.." On the 15th of April,
1841, Black had executed a letter of attorney to the cashier of the
Gas Light and Banking 'Company, to transfer the same to the Bank
of South Carolina, of which notice was sent on the next day to the Gas
Light and Banking Company, and notice 'was received by the latter
on the 22d of April; but owipg to some informality in the letter of
attorney, the transfer was not then made, but the paper was sent
back to be corrected, the company then agreeing to transfer it when
the informality was corrected. The Bank of South Carolina was a
holder of the stock, under this power, for value; and of this "tranSaction also Zacharie &. Co. had notice before their attachment.
At the trial, the jury found a verdict for the original plaintiffs, and
judgment thereuton passed for them. Two bills of exceptions were
taken to the-ruling of the court at the trial, and upon these exceptions the cause has been brought before this court.
It does not seem necessary to recite at large the matters contained
in these exceptions. They give rise to two questions, which have
*been fully argued at the bar, although very inartificially presented in
the record: First, whether at the time of the commencement of the
suit of Zacharie & Co. there was any debt due to them, upon which
the attachment could, under the circumstances,. be maintained? Secondly, whether the assignment to Chapman, being made in South
.Carolina, and known to Zacharie & Co. at.the time of their attachnient; and being, by the lavis of South Carolina, a good and valid
assignment, is entitled to a: priority over the attachmenit. The latter
question, so far as it respected the notice to Zacharie & Co., and
the equity of the assignee, is not so precisely put as it is obvious it
was intended'to be, *in the instructions asked by the intervenor.
But it is plain, from the qualifications of those instructions suggested
by the court, thajtthe court held that the delivery of the stock was not.
confplete, and that the assignment did not pass the right to the stock
to the assignee, unless the transfer was entered upon-the books of
the bank, notwithstanding the notice; and that the law of Louisiana
upon the point was different from that of South Carolina. In this
way only is the verdict at all reconcileable with the admitted state of
facts.
In respect to the first question, it is plain to us that there was no
debt due to Zacharie & Co., at the time when the attachment was
made. The supposed debt was for the proceeds of a cargo of sugar
and mdlasses, sold by Black on account of Zacharie & Co. Assuming those proceeds to be due and payable, Zacharie & Co.had drawn
certain bills of exchange upon Black, which had been accepted by the
latter, for the full amount of those proceeds; and all of these bills
- had been negotiated to third persons, and were then outstanding,
and three of.them were not yet due. It is clear, upon principleg
of law, that this was a suspension of all right of action in Zacharie
& Co., until after those bills had become due and disbonoured, and

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Black et al. v. Zacharie *

11.

Co.

were taken -up by Zacharie & Co. It amounted to a new credit to.
Black for the.amount of those acceptances, during the running of the
bills, and gave Black a complete lien upon those proceeds, forhis
indemnity against those acceptances, until they were no longer outstanding after theyhad been dishonoured.
Whether the transactions by the drawing and acceptance of these
bills amounted to a novation of the debt, which might otherwise b6
due under the account current for the saleg of. the sugar and molasses, it is not necessary-to decide ; for, assuming that these transactions might be treated as a conditional novation only and not as an
absolute novation, it would -make no difference in the conclusion to
which we should arrive under the 'circumstances of this case.
It is true that the statute law of Louisiana allows, in certain cases,
an attachment to be maintained upon debts not yet due. But it is
only under very special circumstances ; and the present Case does
not fall within any predicament prescribed by that law. The statute
does not apply to debts resting in mere contingency, whether they
will
be-come
due to thedebtors
attaching
creditor
not; nor
any
; and
this, or
therefore,
is to
a case
case ever
except'
of absconding
not governed by it. We think, then, that there was errdr in the
rulin11 of the court in admitting, that there was a sufficient debt
established by the evidence to maintain the attachment.
The other'point is one of much greater imp6rtance, although in
our judgment not attended with anyutrinsic' difficulty. We admit,
that the validity of this assignment to pass the right to Black in the
stock attached' depends upon the law of Louisiana and not upon that

of South Carolina. From the nature of the stock of a corporation,
which is created by and under the authority of a state, it is necessarily, like every other attribute of the corporation, to be governed
by the local law of that state, and not by the local law of any foreign
state. And in the present case, f the local law of Louisiana had
prohibited (as we think it had not) any assignment of an eqcitable
interest in the stock attached, we should not have scrupled to have
followed that law. The ituestion is not here, whether the legal interest in the stock passed by the assignment before a transfer .of the
stock upon the books of the corporations ; but whether -the -equitable interest therein,'as contradistinguished from the legal interest,
did not pass to and .vest in the ussignee by the law of Louisiana, so
as to oust-the right 6f any creditor with full notice of the assignment
from divesting the title of the assignee by a subsequent attachment
thereof as the property of the debtor. In respect to the (Qarrollton
Bank it is clear that nothing but an equitable interest could be conveyed or was intended to be conveyed by the assignment; for the
bank already held the legal title as a pledge for a stock loan. In
respect to the Gas Light and Banking Company, the interest in the
stock had been transfefred to the Bank of South Carolina as a
.pledge, and the letter of attorney was given to perfect the equitable

" 12-

S-URREME CO0UIR T.
Black et a]. v."Zacharie & Co.

title into a legal title by an actual transfer on the books of the corporation. But, subject to that pledge, the equity was with the consent of the Bank of South Carolina vested in the assignee under the
assignment. So that each case presented the same general question
as to the validity of the equitable title by the law of Louisiana
against attaching creditors, having full knowledge of that equity.
Out of Louisiana, we believe, that no such 4uestioii could possibly
arise; -for courts of law, as well as courts of equity, are constantly,
in all states where the common law prevails, in the habit of holding
a.prior assignment of the equitable interest in stock as superseding
the right of attaching creditors, who attach the same with a full
knowledore of the assignment.
Upqn ulI examination of the laws of Louisiana and the decisions
of its courts, we see no reason to believe that a difierent doctrine
on this subject-prevajls in that state. -It is true that the same distinctios-between legal and equitable rights may not as to the mode
of remedy exist in that state, which are recognised in states governed
by the common law.- but the same purposes of 'substantial justice
are attained there under similar circumstances as the courts in other
states are accustomed to administer in a different form.
There is a marked distinction in the Louisiana law between the.
transfer of corporeal things movable, and things incorporeal. In
the former a manual tradition of the thing is ordinarily but not uni"versally required to perfect the title. In the case of incorporeal
things no such tradition can take place, and therefore such a delivery.as the thing admits of-a sort of symbolical delivery-.is admitted by the law as a substitute. .There are several articles'of the
Civil Code of Louisiana bearing directly on this point; but it will be
sufficient only to .cite a few 6f those which have been rlied qim
coufisel. Art. 2612 declares, "In the transfer of debts, rigits, or
claims, to a third person, the delivery takes place between the rans,ferrer and transferree by the giving pf the title." Art. 2613 declares,
a The transferree is only possessed; as it regards third personps, aider
notice has been given to the debtor of the transfer having taken
place." Art. .2456 declares, "The tradition of-the incorporeal
dits is to be made either by the delivery of the titles and'of theact of transfer, or by the use made by the pufchaser-with the consent or the seller." In Bainbridge v. Clay,. 16 Martin L .56, the
Supreme Court of -Louisiana said, !,A debt due by] the defendaht
on a fmri facias cannot asto third .persons completely pass to the
assignee unless there be what in.sales of tangible property is called
a tradition or delivery; and this is effected as to choses in action
by notice of the assignment to the debtor." , Again, in Babcock v.
Maltbie, 19 Martin R. 137, the same learnea. zourt said *l1atthe.
true test, in cases of assignment, is, " That where the owner of the
property has lost all pQwer over it and cannot chanoe-iis destination,
.the creditors cannot attach." The same. doctine was directly"

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

513

B1ack.et al. v. Zacharie & Co.

affirmed in the recent case of Urie v. Stevens, 2 Rob. Louis. Rep.
251. 'The principles announced in these decisions seem completely
to cover" the present suit. In the case of the Carrollton Bank the
shares had actually passed to the bank itselfas a pledge, and nothin
but-an equity remained in Black, capable of being transferred, and
that was assigned by the deed of assignment to the assignee before
the attachment, and was known to Zacharie & Co. at the time when
they made their attachment; and at least as early as the' next day it
was made known to the bank. So that the creditors had full iotice
and the bank had full notice; and. the cieditors could not /ake a
valid attachment when to their knowledge the property no longer
belonged to their debtor. The case. as to the Carrollton Bank f,
then, directly within the principles just- stated. The owner had
parted with all his property il the stock; he had lost all-power over
it; and he could not-change its destination'. The same'principles
apply, A fortiori, to the Gas Light and Banking Company; for
there, not. only had the creditors notice of'the" assignmeht before
their attachment; but the company also had notice thereof before
that period.
It is true that the charters of the Carrollton Bank and of. the Gas
Light and Banking Company provide that no transfer of the stock
of these corporations shall be valid or effectual until such transfers
shall*be entered or registered in a book or books to b 'kept for that
purpose by the corporation. But this is manifestly a regulation de-,
signed for the security of the bank itself, and of'third persons taking
transfers of the stock without notice of any prior equitable transfer.
It relates to the transfer of the legal title, and not of any equitable
interest in the stock subordinate to that title. In the case of the
Union Bank of Georgetown v. Laird, 2 Wheat. 390) this court took
notice of *the distinction between the legal -and equitable title in
idases of bank-stock, where the charter of the bank had provided for
the mode of transfer. The general construction which has been put
upon the charters of other banks containing similar provisions as to
the transfer of their'stock, is, that the provisions are designed solely
for the safety and security of the bank itself, and of purchasers without notice ; and that as between vendor and vendee a transfer, not
in conformity to such provisions, is good to-pass the equitable title
and divest the.vendor of all interest in the stock. Such are the decisiois in'the cases of the Bank of Utica v. Smalley, 2 Cowen, 777,
778; Gilbert v. M nchester Iron Co., 1I Wend. 628; Commercial
Bank of Buffalo v. Kortwright, 29 Wend. 362; Quiner v. The Marblehead Insurance Go., 10 Mass. R. 476 ; and Sergeant v. Franklin
Insurance Co., 8 Pick. R; 90.
We see no reason to doubt that the jurisprudence. of Louisiana
adopts a similar interpretation for the purpose of protecting equitable
title against the claims of creditors of the transferrer, who have
notice of such equitable titles. - If it wilj protect an assignment of
VOL. III.-65

614

SUPREME COURT.
Black et al v. Zacharie &-Co.

-

a chose in action against attaching creditors after notice of the assignnen't given to the debtor, because no title remains in the transferrer, (as we have seen it will,) a fortiori, it ought to protect it
where .the attaching*creditor himself has notice, iinee, in justice,,he
isentitled only to take under his attachment what rightfully remains
in the transferrer. In the absence- of any positive controlling
statute or direct adjudication of the courts of Louisiana -upon.the
very point, in contradiction to the doctrine maintained in other states,
as one founded ex 4qo et bonO'in general justice, we may well presume,. that a state deriving -its juiprudence from the Roman'Law,
has not failed to act uipon it.
* There is ahother ground, auxiliary to this last view which is-entitled to great -consideration. It isvwell settled 'as a doctrine' of
international jurisprudence, that personal -property has no locality,
and that the law, of the-owner's domicil is to determine the validity
of the transfer or alienation thereof, unless there is some positive or
custom -ylaw of the country where it- is foutid- to the contrary.
This do Tine hasi in the very late case of 'the United States v.The
United States Bank, (in -June, 1844,) -been fully and directly re.cognised'and affirmed by-the Supreme Court of Louisiana, as a part
of its own international. jurisprudence; and it was applied in that
very case to -support ap assignment made in Pennsylvania, by the
Bank of the United States to" ce.ain assignees, who were intervenom of goods, debts, credits; and effects, in Louisiana. "The
court heldthat the-assignment, beig iroved to be valid and'effectual
by th law of Pennsylvaniap was.to be: deemed- equally valid. aid
effectual to -pass the goods;, debts-, credits, and effects; of the, bemk,
to the assignees in Louisiana) against thet attaching &editors, who
had Aotice of the assignment-at the time of'heir attachment. The
decision turned upon the very doctrine bt international juiisprudence
just referred to. - So' 1hait here we have the high authority of the
state court in this very.mattb," that there is nothing in the' jurisprudence of Louisiia,-which forbids giving full effect and validity
to an assignment of.debts, creditsand equities, sitiate in that statet,
where the assignment is valid and'effectual by The law of thetate
where it is made, so as to oust the rights of attaching rrelitors who
have- due notice thereof. - Now, in the case before us, there-is
plenary evidence that the assignment was valid an'd effectual by The
laws.of South .Cazolina, when and where it was- made, to' pass 'the
right to the property in controversy;. and that the attaching creditors
had notice thereof before their 'attachment Was made; so that - tt
validity and effect are te same in Louisiana as in South Carolina.
t is'twe that the legal title could not pass without a re@lartrahsfer
of the stocks -upon the books of the. corporation;' but it is equally
true, that the title to the property, subject to the pledge- thereof,
was complete in the assignee, so as to bind the banks'as well'as the
attaching creditors, after due notice to them respectively. We de,

J.ANUARY TERM,1845.

515

Camden v. Doremus et al.

-therefore, of iopinion, that the district judge erred in directig the
jury that the delivery of the stock was-not complete unless the
traisfer ws.
entered upon the books' of the banks. That was -true
as to the absolute legal title, but-it did not prevent the equitable title
from passing to and bedoming completely vested in the assignee
under.and in virtue of.the assignment, so as to bind the attaching
creditors, as soon as they had notice. thereof, and in -likenianner the
banks, as soon as hey had -noticethereof.
Upon both groinds rtherefore, stated in the exceptions, the judgment of the Circuit Court is reveised, and the cause remanded to
that court with directions to "award a venire facias de novo.

XonN B. CAxDkx, PLAInTFr iN EIton, v. Tirois C. Donaiu,, Cw
N uLs R. SUtPAX, JANEs SuYDAM, AND JON M. NixON, DsaNwANTS

W Enovt

Where a general objectiQn is made, in the court below, to the reception of testimony, without' stating thie grounds of the objection, this court considers- it
as vagne and nugatory; nor ought it-to have bern tolerated in the court below.
Where at, the time of the endorsement and transfer of a negotiable note, an
agreement was made that the holaer should s~nd it for collection~to the bank
at which it was, on its face, made-payable, and In the event of its not being
paid at maturity, shotld use reasonable and due diligence to collect it from
th drawer and -prior endorsers before resorting to the last endorser, the
,.holder is bound to conditions beyond those which are implied in the ordinary.
transfer and receipt of commercial instruments.
Evidence of the general custom of'banks to give previous notice .to the payer,
of the time when riotes will fall die, was properly'rejected, unless the witness
-could testify as to the practice of the jarticular bank at which the note was
made payable.
A presentment and demand of payment of the note, at maturity, within bank-.
Ing hours, at the bank where the note was made payable, was a suffidient
compliance with the contract to send it to the bank for collection.
The record of &,suit brought by the 'holder against the maker and pxior endorsers was proper evidence of.reasonable and due diligence to collect the
amount of 'the note from them; and it was a proper instruction, that if the
jury believed that the prior endorsers had left the state and-were -insolvent,
the holder of thenotewas 'not bound tosend executions to the 6ounties where/
these endorsers resided af the institution of the suit. The diligent and -honest prosecution of a suit to judgment with a roturn of
islla bona, has always been regarded as one of the extreme tests of due diligence.
And the ascertainment, upon, correct and sufficient proofs, of entire and notorious insolvency, is recognised by the law as answering the demand of due
diligence, and as dispensing with the more dilatory evidence of a suit.
If the holder cannot obtain a judgment against the maker for the whole amount
of the note, in consequence of the allowance of a set-offas between the maker
and one of the prior endorsers, this is no bar to a full recovery against the
last endorser, provided the holder has been guilty of no negligence.

