JANUARY TERM, 1846.

689

Permoli v. First Municipality.

moneys, and others who receive more or less of the public funds,
and what losses might not be anticipated by the public? No such
principle has been recognised or admitted as a legal defence. And
it is believed th6 instances are few, if indeed any can- be found,
where any relief has been given in such cases by the interposition of
Congress.
As every depositary receives the office with a full knowledge of
its responsibilities, he cannot, in case of lossi complain of hardship.
He must stand by his bond, and meet the hazards which he voluntarily incurs.
The question certified to us is answered, that the defendant, Prescott, and his sureties, are not discharged from the bond, by a felonious stealing of the money, without any fault or negligence on the
part df the depositary;- and, consequently, that no such defence to
'the bond can be made.

BzRN,&R

PERMOLJ, PLAIIFF IN ERROR, v. Mumcxp~
rry No.' I oF
THE Crrf oF NEw ORLE .Ns,DEFENDANT IN ERROR.

Thi c~drt has not jurisdiction, under the 25th section of the Judiciary-Act, of
a 4uestion whether an ordinance fthe corporate authorities of Mew Orleans
does or does not impair religions liberty.
The Constitution of the United States rafes-no provision for protecting thecitizens bf-the respective staths in their religious liberties; this i.leR to the

state constitutions ana laws.

The act of February 2t4b, 1811; authorizing the pebple of the territory.of.
Orleans to form a constitution.and tate government, cdntained, in the-third7
section theriof, two provisoes; one in the riature of instructions howthe constitution was to be formed, and the other, reserving to the United States the
property in the public lands, their txemption from state taxation, and the
oommon right to-navigate thd Ihississippi.
The first of these provisoes was fully satisfied by the abt of 1812, admitting
Louisiana into the union, "on an equal footing with the original states.'
The conditions nd terms referred to ini
the act of admission referred solely
to the second proviio, involving rights of property and 'iavigation.
The act of 1805, cbap. 83, .xtdfiding to theinhabitants of the Orleans territory
the rights, privileges and aavantages secured to the :North Western terridfor:
by the ordinance of 1787, had no further force after the adoption of the state
constitution of Louislana, than other i£cts-of Congress, organizing the teri.
torial governmdnt,-and standiag in connection with the ordinance. They are
none or thdm*in force unless'they, were adopted by the state constituion.

Tins case .was brouli± up by writ Qf error, under the 25th section
of the Judiciary Act, from the City Cort bf NeW Oleans,. the
highest appellate court in t"sate to which the question could be
carried..
-In1842i the defendaits in error passed the following ordinance.~

'SUPREME COURT.

00

Permoli v. First M-unicipality.

"Municipality No. 1 of the City of New Orleans.
1 Sitting of Monday, October 31st, 1842.-Resolved, that from
and after the promulgation .of the present ordinance, it shall be
unlawful to carry to, and eipose in, any of the Catholic churches of
this municipality, any corpse, under the penalty of a fine of fifty
dollars, to be recovered for the use of this municipality, against any
person who may have carried into or exposed in..any of the aforesaid
churches any corpse, and under penalty-of a similar fine of fifty dol-.
lars against any priest who may celebrate any'fueral at any of the
aforesaid churches; -and that all the corpses shall be brought to the
obituary chapel, situated in Rampart street, wherein all funeral rites
shall be performed as heretofore.
PAuL BtnTUS, Recorder.
Signed,
I
Approved, November 3d.
D. PrmLm,-Mayor."
Signed,
And a few days afterwards, the following:
"Sitting of Novembr 7th, 1S42.-Resolved, that the. resolation passed on the 31st October last, concerning the exposition of
corpses in the C~tholic.churches, be so amended as to annul in said
resolution tae flnq imposed against all persons who should transport
aid expose, or cause to be transported or exposed,, any forpses in
said churches.,
"Be it further resolved, .hatihe said fine shall be imposed on any
pfiest who shall difiiate at any funerals made in any other church
"Ro
than the obituary chapel.
PArf3 M-TUs, Recorder.
Signed,
Approved, November 9th.
D. PRr-u,72ayor."
Signed,
On the 11th of November, 1842, the municipality issued the followiag warrant against Permoi' a Catholic priest.
"Municipality No. 1?
V3.

Bernard Permoli.

" Plaintiff demands of defendant fifty dollars fine, for having, on
the 9th November, 1842, officiated on the body of Mr.Louis Le
Roy, in the church St. Augustin, in contravention of an -ordinance
passed on the 31st of Octo ber-last;"
To which the following answer was filed:
"The ariswer of the Reverend B. Perm6li, residing at NewOrleans,
to the complaint of Municipality No. 1.
"This respondent, for answer; -says: true it-is that the corpse of
Mr. Louis Le Roy, deceased, -*as brought (enclosed in a cof~n) in
the Roman Catholic church of St. Augustin, and there' exposed;
arid that when there thus exposed, this respondent, as stated in the
complaint, officiated on it, by blessing it, ly reciting on it all the
bther funeral prayers arid solemnity, all the isual funeral ceremonies

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
tPermoli

591

v.First Municipality.

pretcn'bed by the rites of the Roman Catholi 'religion, of which this
respondent is a .priest. That in this act he was assisted by two
other priests, and by the chanters or singers of the said church.
(This respondent avers, that in so doing he was warranted by the
Constitution and laws of the United States,. which prevent the.
enactment of any law prohibiting the free exercise of any religion.
He contends that the ordinance on which the- complainants rely is
null and void,,-being contrary to-the provisions of the act of incorporation of the city of-New Orleans, and to those of the Constitution
and laws of the United States, as above recited.
"Thisrespondent therefore praysto be hence.dismissed with costs.D. SEGEERS, of counsel." .
Signed,
The judge, before whom the case was tried, decided that the ordinance was illegal, and not supported by any of the acts of-the legislature incorporating the city of New Orleans. But the case being
carried up by appeal to the City. Court, the decision was reversed,
and judgment entered in favour of 'Municipality No. 1 against Permoli, for fifty dollars and costs.
-The judge of the City. Court, before deciding the ease, 'Made the
following remarks, which it may not be inappropriate to transcribe.
"Before entering into a statement -of the case, as it appeared on
the trial befoke this court, I considerit necessary to give a mere outline of the circumstances which induced the Council of the First
Municipality to pa~s the ordinances of .the 31st of Oct6ber and 7th
of November, 1842.
"By an ordinance of the corporation of the city of New Orleans,
approved 26th September, 1$27,.and" entitled ' An ofdinance supplementary to an ordinance concerniingopublic health,' it was
'Resolved, that from. and after-the -firstof Novembef niext, (1827,)
it shall -notbQ lawful to convey and -expose into the-parochial church
of St. Louis any dead person- under. penalty 6f a-fine- of fty-dollars, to bq recovered' for the. use of the corporation, against any
person vhb -should have -conveyed or exposed any dad person into
the aforesaid church ; and also under penalty of a similar fine of
fifty dollars, against 611 -priests-who should mnistenr to the celebration of any funeral in said. church; and that from the first of November of the present year, (1827,y altdead .persdns'shal be conveyed
into the obituary chapel in-1timpart .street, where the funeral rites
may be performed in the Usual. manner.'
"1Thi ordinance contin.uedin force'during a:period of fifteen years,
without any opposition on-the part of the Catholic Clergy or poluladon; but in the year-1842, tft late lamented. and venerable
revered Abb6 Moni, 'crate of theparish.of St.. Louis, having departed
this life, some mismiderstanding took place between his successor
and the church-wardens.- The new curate and assistant clergy
abandoned the cathedral, and commenced to celebrate funeral ceremoniesin other churches than the obituary chapel, this chapel being

NSUPREME

COURT.
Permoli V..'First Municipality.

under the administration of the said wardens, The council thereupon passed the ordinances, for the violation of which the defendant is'sued.
"The case was presented here on-the same pleadings as in the court
below, but the plaintiff's counsel introduced evidence to prove
several facts-; this evidefice was in substance as follows:
".The Right Reverend A. Blanc, Bishop of New Orleans, testified
that the dogmas of the Roman Catholic religion did not require that
the dead should be brought to a church, in order that the funeral
ceremonies should be performed over them; that this was a matter
of discipline only; that the witness, as-bishop of this diocese, had
authorized the clergy to leave the cathedral, and not to officiate at
funeral rites at the obituary chapel, and that these ceremonies might
be celebrated at the house where the dead person expired, or at any
other place designated by the bishop.
"'The Reverend C. Maenhant, curate of the parish of St. Louis,
testified, that he was the curate of said parish, and in that capacity
he had given orders for no funeral service to be said at the obituary
chapel; thdi, from the situation of the clergy with regard to the
ward en6; these funeral services could not, with propriety, be performed at said chapel; that he had been several times applied to,
by persons who wished these ceremonies celebrated over the dead
bodies of their.friends or relatives at the obituary chapel, but he had
replied that, under present circumstances, these ceremonies would
not be pei-f6rmed at that place, but at the chapel of St. Augustin, or
in the house where the deceased person was lying, at the choice of
the relatives.
"Cross-examined.-This witness testified, that the St. Augustin
chapel,was, in his. opinion, s conveniently situated for these purposes as the'obituary chapel; that, in the funeral office, there is
nothing calculated to disturb the public peace, nothing c6itrary to
morals, and that the greatest decency is always observed in these
mortuary rites.
"The Reverend Jacques Lesne testified, that he is the priest employed as chaplain at the obituary'chapel; that he is entitled to no
remuneration, besides what he receives from the church-wardens,
for attending at the chapel, to bless the bodies of the dead which
.are brought there; that he does not celebrate funeral obsequies-with
that pomp which is given to them in special cases, buthe continues,
with the permission of the bishop, to read the office of the dead,
whenever required, at the obitadry chapel, as he -did previous to the
departuroof the clergy from thd cathedral; that he is not permitted
to leave the chapel to accompany funerals to the cemetery.
"Cxoss-examined.-He said, there is nothing immoral or contrary
to the public tranquillity in the prayers which'are said at funerals.
" Messrs. Jos6 Fernandez, Bernard Turpin, Anthony Fernandez,
and Joseph G~nois, proved that, fof fifteen years past, the -funeral

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

.

593

Peymoli v. First Municipality.

service has been. performed at the obituary chapel, only that thischapel is the best situated for this pu~iose, and that nothing disorderly ever occurred there;
"Mr. A.. Fernandezyn.dross-examined, added that he had never
known of the occurrence of any' disturbance of.the public peace,
during the ceremonies at the Si. Augustin chapel, but he had heard
a great deal i'f complaint about it; and that, being a native of New
Orleans, 'and having almost constantly resided here, he. has never
seen or heard of the performance of--funeral ritis at~any of the Protestant churches.
" The Honourable Paul Berturs, recorder of Municipality No. 1,
proved, that having had the misfortune to lose his sister-in-law, he
desired that the funeral solemnities should :have-been celebrated at
the.obituary chapel; but that the dlergy had left him no choice but
between the St. Augastin
chapel
and the mortuary house, and that
plice.
latter
he determined upon the
"The following resolutions, passed by the church-wardens of the
parish of St. Louis, were next introduced:
"1
' Sitting of Friday, 11th November, 1842.-Resolved, that the'
obituary chapel shall be open for the reception of the remains of all
deceased Catholics. , Resolved, that all persons who desire to have
dead bodies exposed in funeral state, at the said chdpel, are requested to give notice to the secretary of the wardens, in order that he
may cause the necessary preparations to be made.
"' Resolved, that the public be informed that the Reverend Abb6
Lesne shall continue to bless all bodies of dead persons brought to'
the obituary chapel, and that he will continue to say the usual funeral prayers at said chapel.'
"A correspondence between the mayor and the curate was also
introduced, by consent of parties ; but the court, considering this
evidence as having no leo-al effect upon the case. contents itself
merely with the mention oits introduction.
"Henry St. Paul, Esq., (one of defendant's counsel,) testified,
that at Lexington, Kentucky, he saw the body of a deceased person
taken into the Methodist Episcopal church, where a funeral oration was pronounced .for the'-occasion by the Reverend Maffit, aminister 6f that persuasion, and that said oration was followed by
prayers.
"Finally, the testimony of Mr. P. E. Crozat proved, that one of
his friend having departed this life, and having.bedn warned by
Mr. Rufino Fernandez of the existence of the ordinance, he had
nevertheless insisted that the body should be takei to the St. Au-.
gustin chapel for the funeral rites, holding himself responsible for
the fine imposed, for his opinion was on the side of the clergy."
The judge of the City Court then gave his opinion at large and
decided, as has already been stated, in favour of Municipality No. 1,
from which decision d writ of error brought the case up to this court.
VOL. IH -75
3 D2

594

SUPREME COURT.
Permeli t,. First Municipality.

William G. Read and Coxe for the plaintiff in -error.
Bartonfor.the defendant in error.
Read's argument was as follows:
Three questions arise on thisrecod1. Is-the cause befori the 'court, in accordance with the requirements of the aot of September 24th, 1789, sect. 25? ,
2. Have the court jurisdiction" over cases of infringement of the
religious liberty of citizens of Louisiana, by the municipal authorities of that state?
3. Do the ordinances of November 3d and November 9th, recited
in the record, infringe the religious liberty of citizens of LouiSiana?
-1. The first question-is settled affirmatively by a bare inspection
of the record.- It falls within the very terms of the act.
.,2. For an answer to the second question, we must, go back, -in
'the 'first- place, to the "'-ordinance for the government of the territory
of the United Slates north-west of-the river Ohio," passed by Congress onfhe 13th bf July, A. D. 1787; part of preamble and article
1st.: "And for'-extending the fundamental principles of civil and
religous liberty, which form the basis whereon these republics, their
laws, and constitutions are erected; to fix and establish those principles as the basis of all laws, constitutions and governments, 'which
It is
for ever hereafter shallu.be formef in the said territory ......
hereby ordained and declared ....
That the following articles
shall be considered as articles of compact between the original states
and 'the people and states in the said territory, and for ever remain
'unalterable unless by common consent, to wit :'
himself in a peaceable and or"-Art. 1st. No my
person
demeaning
ord
inthe
he c~naon pot,
"aguoQf his smode
b w]tegof
account
derly .manner we
shall sa
ever
b~e-of molested
worship or reious sentiments, in the said territory.
This ordinance, so comprehensive, so.far-reaching, so simple, and
sublime, established a new era for the millions who were destined
to sw n within the sphere of its benevolnt operation. For them,
contrQl the religion of
stat h
pr
ay
"d
and recognisedT; if not by moralists and theologians, at l'east by
statesmen"
jurists. Such
has time
been the
and practice
of
European andgovernments,
from the
'whentheory
the emperors
lighted
the streets of Romne-with blazing Christians, to he last liturgy forced
on his Protestant subjects by the despot of Prussia. Even these
American states, plated as they were by refugees from religious
perseution, presented for geaerations any thing but a land of religiou liberty. 'he government of the Puritans was the very opposite of tolerant; and if they pilled not the lives of their dissentient
brethren as freely as others had done, it-was because they fle from
bofoemtheir face into the wildemes.
The government of. Virginia

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

596

Permof'i v. First Mun'icipality.

was equally exclusive; and the land of the Calverts was peopled
by exiles from both. Even Old Maryland, the primal seat of Christian freedom, has enfranchised. -the Israelite within -our own brief
memories. It was but yesterday that the Catholic was made eligible
to office in North" Carolina; and his continued exclusion from it
disgraces- New Hampshire to.day. But the ordinance of 1787 drew
a broad line of distinction between the thirteen original states, which,
in conquering their independence, acceded to all the known attributes
of sovereignty, and the neiv ones to be carved out of the immense
regions north-wet of the Ohio;. 4hiclh come into -the national community shorn of this, flo~wer, -r rather thorn, of prerogative: It has
left not the trace, of -a foundation, within their vast extent, whereon
bigotry can erect her citadels. The United States have guarantied,
to their inhabitants, religious liberty; as absolutely as they have
republican government to us all.
This ordinance gave the key-nofe-t0 our territorial legislation; and
every subsequent passage has, on this paramount interest of humanity,
harmonized therewith. Bythe a t of April7th, 1798, chap. 45, sect. 6,
the inhabitants 6f the Mississipi territory were admited to "all the
lights of the people of the iiorth-west territory; as guarantied by the
ordinance ;" and by the act of March- 2d, 1805, chap. 437,.sect. 1,
the inhabitants of the territory of Orleans, (now'Lonisiana,) became
entitled to "1all the right6,-privileges, and,-advantages-secured by said
.ordinance, and .enjoyed by the people of the Mississippi territory."
Bt we do not.rely on- the ordinance of 1787 and the aforesaid'
extendirig acts alone. The act of February 20th, 1811, chap. 298,
by which.the people of thd territory of Orleans were empowered to
form a constitution and state government, provided expressly in the
3d section, that the constitition -to be formed, "sshould contain the.
fundamental principles of civil and' religious liberty ;" and the act
ofApril 8th,-1812,. chap. 373, sect. 1, by which the state of-Louisiana was -hdmitted into the union, provided "that all the conditionis
and terms' contained in the said third section, should be. considered,
deemed, and taken as fundamental conditions and terms, upon which
the said state is incbrporated into -the union."
The argument'then is strictly consecutive; that, both underfle
ordinance of 1787; and the -acts for admitting Louisiana into the
union, there is a solemn compact between the -people .of 'that state
,and the United- States, (which this high conservative tribunal will
protect from violation by.state authority,) that they shall n6r be molested on account of their religious 'belief, or mode of worship'; but
that they shall for ever enjoy religious liberty in the fullest-and most
-e.omprehensive acceptation of'the term.
To obviate the force- of this conclusion, the judge" "a- quo"
(Preaux) has,.in his opinion, whicli'is part of the record, (16 Peters,
285,) been'compelled-to advance doctrines of the wildesg nullifica-lion, subvemive of the very' first principles of political morality.

W6

EUPREMIE COURT.
Permoli v. First Municipality.

He argues (pages 19 and 20.of the record,) '"that the ordinanceof
1787 was superseded by the constitution of the state of Louisiana;
. . . that constitution became the supreme law of the state, and
all .acts of Congress regulating the government of the-territories of the
United States ceased to exist within the limits of Louisiana-a sovereign stite; .
the erection of Louisiana-into an independent
state, under a constitution adopted by her own citizens, and sanctioned by Congress, must necessarily set aside the charter established
for its territorial governmentdby Congress. To accede to a contrary
doctrine, would be to admit thaf thd power of Congress might be
perpetuated, notwithstanding' this solemn act, contrary to the rights
of the states as defined and reserved 'by the federal compact," and
this notwithstanding the most carefully expressed and uarded stipulations between the federal empire and its newly adutted member!
To what a solemn farce does this argument reduce the earnest debateq, the stern remonstrances, the enthusiastic appeals, which shake
our legislative halls, and agitate this vast union from one extremity
to the other! What avail our anxious compromise§, our reluctant
-concessions, our cautious provisoes, if, the instant a new partner is
admitted t6 the natio-al firm, she is at liberty to cast her most solemn
obligations behind her? To -what a ridiculous condition is one at
least, of the 'high contracting parties degraded by these fancies! Is
she sovereign? Oh, no! not "sovereign "'till she becomes "a state!"
Is she subject? How can subject stipulate with sovereign? She
is then a nondescript, " tertium 4uid"--a sort of political redemptioner-; with just enough of the slave to submit'to humiliating conditions, and just enough of the freeman to count the days the indenr
tures have yet to run, and rejoico in anticipated repudiation of the
most formal and explicit engagements.
Such, however, is not the doctrine of this court. In Menard v.
Aspasia, 5 Peters, 515, Judge- McLean, delivering the opinion of"
the court, distinctly intimated that the ordinance of 1787 might be
insisted on, as yet in force, within the sovereign state of Missouri.
His words are too clear for misconceptiqn:. " If the decision of the
Supreme Court of Missouri had been against Aspasia, it-might have
been contended, that the- ievising power of this couit, under the.
'25th section"of the.Jhdiciary Act, could be exercised ;" and although
the same learned judge" in Spooner v. McConnell and others,
1 McLean's C. C. R. 341, subsequefly admitted that such'provisions of the ordinance as were intended to produce a moral or political effect, (among which he classes those which secure the rights of
conscience,) were annulled, in 'hio, by the adoption of the federal
and state constitutions, as implying thp. common' consent" required
for. their abrogation; his language must necessarily be undersfoad
as -harmonizing with that of this court in Menard v. Aspasia, and
inapplicableto the case of'Louisiana ;_unless it can be shown either
that the federal constitution abolished those provisions explicitly*

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

597

Permoli ,o. First Municipality.

•which it did not; or vested the states with powers.repugnant thereto,
"which it did not; or superseded- them by higher federal guaranties,
which it did not; or that the constitution of Louisiana'proQeeded
on either of those grounds, which it certainly did not, 'in terms ; and7
if at all, only by. inference frd6 the-conditions imposed by the act for
admitting that state to the .union; which supposition leaves the case
as strdng as under the ordinance.
Equally unfortunate is the gloss 'by which the judge below has
endeavoured (pages 14 and 15 of 1the record) to evade, the constitutional guarantees of Louisiana, on the subject of religious liberty.
The Supreme Court of his own state, in the recent case of "The
Wardens of the Church of St. Louis, New Orleans, v. Blanc, Bishop,
&c.," (which is reported, as it would seem by authority, in the New
Orleahs Weekly Bulletin pf July 6th, 1844,) holds this most emphatic language in reference to the constitution of Louisiana. "If'
the state constitution, fraAed a few, years afterwards, contained no
such restriction upon the legislative power, it was because it was
thought unnecessary. It had already been settled, by solemn and
inviolable compact, that religious freedom, in its-broadest sense,
should form the essential basis of all laws, constitutions and governments., which should for ever after be formed in the territory; and that
compact was declared to be unalterable unless by common consent."
. . . "In the opinion of the cburt,'no man can be molested, so
long as he demeans himself in a peaceable and orderly manner,' on
account of his made of worship, his religious opinions and profession, -and the religious functions he may choose to perform, according to the rites, doctrine, and disdipline of the church or sect to
which he may belong. And tis absolute immunity extends to all
religions, and to every sect."' So that, had the judiciary system of.
Louisiana permitted an appeal from the .City Court of New Orleans
to the supreme law tribunal of the plaintiff's own state, this court
-would not probably have been troubled with this argument.
3d. To read the ordinances, under which the plaintiff in error
has been fined, is to dispose of the third question presented by this
cause. Their bearing upon only one denomination of ivors!hippers
• establishes their tyrannical character. Equality before the law is of
the very essence of liberty, whether civil or religious. --The performance of funeral obsequies, in buildings consecrated to public
adoration of the Deity, is not confined to Catholics.,obut is practised
by many other religious societies.
Again; the ordinances, a they now stand, contain but a single
penal prohibition. They punish. the pbrformance of a religious
function by individuals acting in their religious capacity or character, "9according to, the rites, doctrifie, and discipline of the church
to' which they belong." They' legislato for the priest as priest, and'
only as priest; not as a person transporting and exposing, or caus.
ing to be transported or exposed, any corpse in the interdicted

698

.SUPREME,

COURT.

Permoli v. First Municipality.

churches; but: as the ordained celebrant of the -office foi the dead.
What is this fuinction he is fr'biaden to- exercise? His church-the.
holy Catholic church-teaches that the mercy of God, while it mitigates, does not merge his justice; that, though, many, .through the
*atoning blood of the Saviour, escape eternal-wo, they do not all
pass directly from this probationary state to -celestial bliss. Souls
inay depart this life unpolluted' with mortal sin, 'which wouI'A consign them to everlasting misery, ahud yet .bearing some ;,tains of
earth,.which may not be admitted t6 His presence, before whose
awful purity archangels veil their faces; and- such,, according to
the fearful parable, are cast into that prison whence therd is -no
egress till "payment- of the uttermost farthing;" till expiation of
"e,eryldle word," of which we are to "give account." This expiatory state is termed by theologians; "purgatory;,!' and the Catholic doctrine ia, that those-who suffer thete are aided by the prayers,
'almsdeeds, and other good works of their brethren still in the flesh,,
.and the suffrages of the blessed spirits;, exhibiting thus; blended in
one tender "=communion- of 6ints," Ih'e church triumphant in'heaven, the church militant on earth, and her suffeiing menibers in the
-middle state.. Thus Cath6lic charity ceases ndt with the last sad
offices rendered to these fainting-frames. -When eyes that lieamed
on ug with kindness are -closed for e.ver, when the intellectual light
that blazed-about and giided -us is -darkened, when the hearts that
loved -and trusted' us are cold dud still,'then-are we stimulated to
new demonstrations of affeetion, by the very agony of our bereavement. ,And the church, whose every precept is fotinded on the
deepest philosophy of humafi nature, knowing that the efficacy of
prayer is proportioned to its urgency, (as her-divine ma9ter "in his
agony prayed the more,"') directs that they shall be offeied, under
evey
circumstancethat
can"to'
aninate
hope strengthen
or ]indle
charity.'
Andy therefore,
her "temples,
where she ith,
receives
tihe
to
bless
theat
nuptial
that and bringthe
bier
; tat,ewe
little
child
.th' ring,
layer she
of commands
regeneration,''
:where she
delights

-

kneeling
beside the
remains of friend
or 'relative,
a'i~ful 'memorials
of dear
olr redemption,
surrounded
by the before
relids the
of
confirmed
be
to
e befor. ad whom we believe
who hav
ths
in glory,. in the very presence of,the mercy -seat, where, less terrible
-but dearer than in the sh/knak that filled the tabernacle of the early
dispensation, the Almighty shrouds his glory beneath~the sacramental
veil, we may .pour out our soids in fervent supplication that those.
we mourn may 'be admitted to the 'mansions of eternal rest, and
Shave their longing hopescrowned with everlasting fruition. And
tell
us not-this
is a fond~superstition.
It is an office in
-which
" the
church
of the New"
Testament- is in-communion-with
'te
church
of
the Old;" with the Hebrew of three thousend years ago and the
Hebrew of to-day: In it the Catholic unites with the Nestorian and
tle Copt, and the separated Geek, and every liurgist before the

JANUARY TERM, I84.

go

Permoli v. First Mimicipality.

sixteenth century; nay, with-many'of the wise and good, who, half
doubting or rejdcting it as of revealed authority, still practise'it at
the instinctive'teaching of their own hearts; ahd with the great Dr.
Johnsoni bow down for them they loved in prayer that God "may
have had mercy." But were it, on the contrary, the last novelt
of the day; were it confined to the little chapel where the plaintif
.ri .eror ministers to his flock, still he could lay his hand on the ordinance-of 1787,.and exclaim "with the sage of Tusculum, "si erro,
libenter erro; nec.himc 'errorem a me.extorqueri volo I'!
But the judge "a quo" has argued, that the praying for th dead
in churches, with the body there present, is 'erely a disciplinary
observance, as. stated in the evidence of Bishop Blanc, and may,
therefore, be regulated or controlled by thelegislature, without vialating religiois liberty.
Now if there be aught e senially'characteristic of religious, liberty,
it is the exemption of ecclesiastical discipline (defined by the learned
Hooker, "church order,") from secular control; and this, because
the external forms and practices of religion are all that temporal.
power can directly invade. Faith, doctrine, are beyond its reach;
objects of the understan'ding and -the heart. - Disciplineis the sensible law Which regulates the manifestatioi-of oir belief or opinion,
in our public and social devotional intercours'e 'with our*Creator.
SFaith is the soul of religion; discipline the visible beauty in which
she commends herself to our'veneration and love. Aid it may be
safely asserted, that there never was an arbitrary change introduced
by governments into the religiofis opinions of a community, phich.
was not masked, by a pretended raform of exterior bbservances.
What distinguishes the most numerous sect of Christians, in our
country, from, the many who agree with tem.on doctrinal'pqints,
b$1t their method; the practical methodi established by the fbunders
of their peculiar system of church pQlity? In fact, they have taken:
their name from
it. Yet what is "method" but, another word for
"discipline?" ' And would a member of that society consider himself in the enjoyment of religious liberty, if told "believe what you
please of the divinity, the incarnation.the atonement, the influences
of the Hot Spiit, baptism; but hold no class-meeting-hold no
camp-meeting. These, though perhaps edifyin and' consolatory to
yoq, are only matters of disciprme, and amenable, therefore, to the
municipal police?"
. But the judge below contends that the Catholic office for the dead
is not prohibited; inasmuch as it is permitted in the " obituary chapel. 1 That is to say, religion is free, though its observances may
be imited to a building in the possession of. notorious schisnatics,
*ho might tax them to .virtual' prohibitioi, or apply the proceeds, at
their own discretion, to the subversion of religion -itself. The pointis stated arguendo; but boriowea from the facts which gave rise to
this appeal to the court.

600

SUPREME COURT.
Permoli v. First Municipality

But it was further insisted below, that, as a measure of quarantine
precaution, the exposition 'of .corpses may be prohibited. Not if
such-proLiibitory legislation infringes rights more precious than mere
aniatal health, which are guarantied by the Constitution or supreme
law of the land. Judge Marshall's language on this point is clear.
In Wilson and others v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Peters,
251, he says, "The value of the property on the bairks (of this
creek), must l5e enhanbed by excluding the water from the marsh,
and the health of the inhabitants probably improved. Measures
calculated to promote these objects, provided they do not come into
collision with the powers of the general government, are undoubtedly within those which are reserved to the states." And if 'it be.
true, as inferred from this language, that a sovereign state, in her
high legislative capacity, cannot, for the preservation of the. health
of ber: citizens; encroach on the constitutional guarantees for unrestricted commerce between man and man; can we suppose she could
delegate the more dangerous power of interfering with the intercourse of man with God, specially- guarded as it has been by the
organic law of LouisiAna, to a petty corporation? This case, however, passes clear of that suggestion. The judge below endeavoured
to implicate the priest, as the ultimate cause of exposing the sad
relics of mortality which- "lie festering in the shroud;" but the
words of the ordinances, which, being penal, must be construed
strictly, have expressly -vaived the penalty against all'concerned in
exposing,'or causing them to bd exposed, and directed their vengeance exclusively againstthe priestly function.
Barton's argument was this:
The First Municipality of New Orleans embraces the Whole of what
is called "the city proper," or "square of the city," and is bounded
by a wide front levee, and the three streets of Esplanade, Rampart,
and Canal,'(which are as wide as PenpsyIvania Avenue,) and covering also the .whole suburbs, and low grounds in the rear of Rampart,
-extending to Lake Ponchartrain. The obituary chapel, referred to.
in the record, is situate upon Rampart, but.on the rearward side,
and is thus separated frofh the city proper by an area of the-width of
three of its lpiancipal streets. The parochial church of St. Louis is
the principal Catholic cathedral in the city, and, like the church of
St. Augusti, is situate within th square of the city,- where all the
streets are very narrow.
New Orleahs is visited ainually with.the yellow fever, in either the
sporadic or epidemic form, and strong sanitory measures are deemed
indispensable there to check the range and prevalence of the pstilence when it comes.
The gmat body of ihe Catholic citizens of NewbOrleans (other than
those of Irish descent) reside in.the Fii-st Municipality. The American
Protestant population reside chiefly inthe Second'Municipality; they.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

601

Permoli v.-First Municipality.

have but one church in the First Municipality, and that fronts the.
Second, on Canal street.
The usages of the Catholics,there are to perform the mortuary services with the corpse eiposed in open church, and before the c6ngregati6n. Protestant dhurches there are never used for such purposes, but services for the dead are performed at the cemeteries where
the bodies are deposited.
The statement-of facts contained in the opinion of the judge of the
City
having been used in the opening argument at this forum,
givesCourt
warrant for the statement now made, which it is thought may
be useful besides as a clue to the quo anino of the coundil of the First
Municipality in enacting the ordinance c6mplained of. If that measure had its origin in the mere purpose of infringing upon, and discriminating, to the prejudice of the religious rights of one denomination of Christians, it is not to be defended.; "but if designed merely
as a regulation of sanitory police, for the preservation .of, the public
health, then the lnw of necessity pleads in its behalf; and all obituary
rites and ceremonials which tend to frustrate its objects, or impair
its efficacy, must yield to the supremacy of the common good. The learned counsel also cited hnd quoted, from the New Orleans
Bulletin, an opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in the case
of the Wirdens of the Church of St. Louis ii..The Right Rev. Bishop
Blanc, instituted for the legal adjustment of certain differences between them in relation to church 4ffairs, and which that court's judg-.
ment happily put an end to. It may be proper to remark, however,
that this controversy was between Catholics; the one administering
the temporalities of the church, and maintaining the rihts of the corporationi-the other administering the etclesiastical functions, and
maintaining the rights of the clergy. None but those professing the'
Roman.,Catholfc religion can vote for chiirch-war4ens, as that opinion makes known; and none, therefore, are chosen such, who are
not of that religious persuasion. Nothing could have been further
from the designs of either party to that, controversy, than to have
trenched upon or abridged the civil or religious privileges of Catholocism itself, and still less to have favoured, to its prejudice, -any
other denomination of Christians.
The controversy referred to having arisen; too, in the same year
(1842) in which the ordinance was passed under which the fine was
imposed on the plaintiff in error,-leaves the inference fair that there
was a necessary connection between.them. But this is not so;. and
the circumstances strongly repel all inferences that the First Mnicipality codneil' could have designed any infringement upon, or impairment of, the privileges of Cfftiolics. The geat-body of the constituency of that council is Catholic; and-it isbelieved, ab urbe con-.
dila, to the present day, a majority, and very frequently the whole,
of that council, are such as have- been reared up in the Cath6lic faith,
and have continued in that religious persuasion. Hence, if the
VOL.
-I.-76
3E

602

SUPREME COURT.
Permoli v. First Municipality.

ordinance complained of abridges the privileges of Catholics, 'it
abridges. to a like extent the privileges of those who enacted it. ' If.
Catholics are wronged, .Catholics have wronged them. This circuinstance, indeed, may not lessen the injury, though it weakens the
wrong. It may not test the lawfulness, but it defends the motive.
Though the -particular ordinance under which the fine wat imposed, bears date the 31st October,,1842, (modified as it was.by the
ordinance of 'the 7th of November, 1842,) yet the purpose and the
occasion originated at'a far earlier pdriod, at.a season when dissensions in the parochial church were unknown, and when the vendrable and reverenced Abb6 Moni-a priestbfall worth and all appreciation-presided as curate of the parish of St. Louis. As"far back
as the 26th of September; 1827, (fifteen years before,) the city council adopted an ordinance upon this subject of precisely similar import
with that of the 31st October, 1842; and the motive of its enactment
is conspicuous in the very title of the ordinance. It is entitled "An
ordinance supplementary to an ordinance concerning public health."
It is as follows:
"Resolved, That from and after the 1st of November next, (1827,)
it shall not be lawful to convey and expose, into the parochial church
of St. Louis; any dead person, under penalty of a fine of $50, to be
recovered for the use of the corporation, against any person who
should have conveyed or expesed any dead into the aforesaid church;
and also under penalty of a similar fine of $50, against all priests
who should minister to the c'elebration of any funeral in said church;
and that from the 1st of November of the present year, (1827,).ill
dead persons ghall be conveyed jnto the obituary chapel in Rampart street,
where the funeral rites may be performed in the usual
7
manner.

This act has remained in force ever since the 1st November, 1827.
Its sole purpose was manifested in its title and provisions. All persons concerned gave it their obedience, and none ever complained
that it impaired or. abridgdd the civil or religious rights and privileges of the Catholics. No motive was attributed.to its authors,
other than the fears they may have entertained, in seasons of disea.qe,
of the perils of contagions, .or the spread of epidemics. The hrdinance of the 31st October, 1842, made no change whatever in the
ordinance of 1827, except in its penalties, for conveying to, and exposing in. other Catholic chturches, in the First Municipality, of dead
bodies; the obligationi not to do so, and to use the obituary chapel
in Rampart street for that purpose, remaihed as before. Neither has
the ordinance of the 7th November) 18, wrought any modification
in that of 1827,"for its amendments are confined by special referendes
to the ordinance of the 31st October, 1842. That the ordinance of
1827, in principle, affected the rights, and privileges referred to,
equally with the subsequent oidinancesis too plain to be questioned
aod that grievance seems altogether too slight- and impalpable to

JANUARY TERM,, 1845.

603

Permoli v. First'Municipalityk.

claim the protection of this august tribunal, when in fifteen'years,
for aught that is known, it has passed without complaint, and for,the
-reason, it may be, that it was so subtle and ethereal as to elude detection.
2. The ordinances of the 31st of October, and the 'thlNovember,
1842, do not invade the rights or privileges of the Catholic citizens
of New Orleans.
The testimony of the Right Rev. Bishop Blanc would seem to
establish this.proposition incontroveribly, for he says that "the dog-*
mas of the Roman Catholic religion, did not require that-the dead
should be brought to a church, "'-order that the funeral ceremonie
should be performed over them; that this "was a matter of discipline
only." A d?)gma is a matter of church-faith, and affects conscience;
discipline affiecis conduct only, where conduct does not affect faith.
Under these ordinances, then, and the bishop's testimony, faith and
conscience are left free; nothing molest6 the enjoyment or constrains
the exercise. of 'ither. How is it made to appear, then, that they
conflict with that "free enjoyment of religion," secured to the' ihabitants of the ceded territory," by the Louisiana treaty of'1803,
which has been cited? Or, with the 1st article of the ordintnce of
1787, which says, that "no person demeankig hiniself in a peaceable
and orderly manner, shall ever be molested on account of his mode
of worship or religious sentiments," which has beei also cited? Or,
with the 4th sectioi of the- act of- Congress of March 26,. 1804;
which prohibits the Legislative. Council of the Orleans territory from
passing any law "which shall lay any perton under restraint,. burden, or disability, on account of his religious opinions, profession,
or worship; in all which he shall be free to niaintiin his own, and
npt burdened for those of another," which has been also cited? . Or,
with the act qf Congress of the 20th February, 1811, (also cited,)
which -provides that the constitutibn to. be formed by te people-of
the Orleans territory, "shall- contain the fundamental principles-of
civil and religious liberty?" Or, with the act of-Congress of the 8th
April, 1812, admitting Louisiana as a state, and providing that the
terms of admission contained in the" 3d section of the act of 20th
February, 1811, "shall be considered, deemed, and taken, as fun
damental conditions and terms'upon which the said state is incorpo-"
rated in the union?"
Supposing these various 'provisions, relied on by the plaintiff in
error, to have. not spent their force by the operations of time, nor
the change of g9vernment, it is submittd, that thero is.nothing in,
these ordinces epugnant to either or any of them; for, if they be
enforced evermore, they dor not, and cannot, affect the religious sentiments or opinions, the woihip or the liberty, of any. But'the
bishop says, further, that "these ceremonies mighf be celebrated at
the house where the dead person expired, or at any other place designated by the bishop." ', The .place, then, for tha mortuary cere-

604

SUPREME COURT.
Permoli v. First Municipality.

monials not being sacramental, how-is the faith or conscience of Catholics assailea, by designating a few places in which they could not
be performed? The essence of the-right consists in the thing that is
to be done, and not'in the place of performance. If the thing itself
were forbidden, then might have been drawn in question the power
to forbid, coupled with the further inquiry, how far religious, as well
as civil rights and privileges, may be constrained to give way to the
public necessities and the common good?
.3. The ordinances complained of were within, the comnpetency of
the council of the First Municipality.
No express authority is needed to invest in a corporation a power
of preservation of the public health. The law of necessity would
constitute it an incident essential to its existence. Vide Bacon's
It is there laid down that "there are
Corp. to(D.)
Abridgment,
some
things tit.
incident
a corporation-which
it may do withbut
are 1iowers
any express provision in the act of incorporating-such
laws."
governed without
laws, for a body poitic cannot be
make
to
And
Chief
Justice
Holt
says,
(Carth.
482,)
"That
every
by-law,
by
*which the benefit of the corporation is advanced, is ,agood by-law
for that very reason, that being the true touch-stone of all by-laws."
So in matters cf corporate poice.
tn
Coi. Dig. 3, tit. B/-la
C7 it is laid dowi, "That
a by-law to restrain butchers, chandlers,
et aL, from setting up-in Cheapside, or such other eminent parts in
the' city of Loadon, was good"-(not because a special
power was
conferred
enactdiseases;
it, but)--"
such trades
were
ar& apt to to
create
andbecause
that therefore,
for fear
of offensive
infection,3
and for the sake of public decorum and cnveniency, such kind of
ofAensive trades might be removed to places of more restraint."
The validity of a similar by-law, made by the corporation of Exeter,
was afterwards afirmed by Lord Mansfield. .See Cw Ri. 269,

270.
C,
i-here a restraint appears to be of manifest benefit to the public, such is to be considered rather as a regulation than as a restraint." Wile s, 388; Strange, 675; 2 Strange, 1085 ; 3 Burr.
1328; t H.' Blaek. 370; 1 Roll. Abr. 365; 3 Salk. 76; Sid. 284;

2Kyd.
on Village
Corp. 149..
In The
of Buffalo v. Webster; 10 Wnd.. 101, Chief Justice Savage puts this case ex gatia. "A by-law that no .meat
should be sold in the village would be bad,
deneral
beingn-a
r.Sstraint; but tat ameat
shall not besold, exceptbin a particular place,
isgood, not beinga restraint of the right to sell meat, but a regulation of that right."
In the case of The Commnwealth v. Abram Wolf, 3 Serg. &
Rawle, 48, Chief Justice Tilehman affirmed the validity of an ordinance of Philadelphia, imposing a fine Ir working o a Sunday,
against a Je;
though under the teachings of tbe Jewish Talmud
and the Rabbinical Constitutions, the Jew deemed. Saturday as the

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

605

Permo-li v. First Municipality.

Jewish Sabbath, and f'elt it both as a privilege and a duty to labour
for six days, aid to yest on the seventh, or Saturday.
In the case of the Mayor of New York v. Slack, 3 Wheelei, 248,
t seg., the court affirmed the validity of an ordinance imposing
penalties for burying the dead within three miles of the city limits,
on the ground that the preservation of the public health was" anf;
incident of the corporate power. The opinion of the court is particularly referred to for the minuteness and learning with which it
reviews the whole power of city corporations -over matters of. general polict and sanitary regulation.
To the same end reference is also tuade'to the. ordinances of Boston, pp. 53, 55, 76; of Nashville, p. 60; the ievised ordinances
of Baltimore, (1838,) p. 285, for the, act of assembly, conferring the
power; and from p. 37 to 51, for the ordinances made unde that
authority; quarantine laws, &c.
So far as the legislative power of Louisiana, both territorial and
state, could confer the power to make the ordinances in question,
that power has been amply conferred. The 6th section of the-act
of the i7th FPbrary, 1806, provides that "the said council shall
have the power to make and pass all.by-laws and ordinances for the
better government of the affairs of the said corporation, for regulating the police, and preserving the peace anl good.prder of the said
city ;" so the act of the 14th March,. 1816,'provides "that the city
council shall have power and authority to make and pass such bylaws and ordinances as they shall deem necessary to maintain thfi.
cleanness and salubrity of the said city, &c. And to make any
other re-aulations which may contribute to the better administration
of the affairs of the said corporation, as well as for the maintenaice
of the police, tranquillity, and safety of the said city.
These acts were all in force at the time these ordinances were
passed, and still are ; and also the '4th section of an act of the 8th
of March, 1836, which provides that "each of the municipalities,
&c., shall possess generally all such rights, powers, and capacities
as are usually incident to municipal corporations, &c., &c.
The power conferred on the council, then, is ample enough to
sanction these ordinances; but it is material to know, 7hether the
delegating power could rightfully do what it has thus done ; and if
it could not, whether it is the province, or within the competency
of this court to say so ? This brings us to the question:
4. Has this court jurisdiction in this case?
If it has, it does not derive it from the character of the parties,
for they are all citizens of the same state; and not deriving it thence,
the function of this court to administer state laws between certain
classes of parties does not atI ch. The questions raised hete, therefore, of the repugnancy of these ordinances to the laws of the state,
or of the repugnancy of those laws to the state constitution, be such
repugnancy what it may, it is most respectfully submitted, are mere.
3 E2

606

SUPREME CQU-RT.
Permoli v. Firsf Municipality.

municipal questions, upon which the judgmentof the court, a q, in
the present conjuncture, is final and conclusive. If. indeed, tiere
be a repugnancy between these ordinances and '.(the constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States," and their validity is " drawn
in question" by the court's judgment) the jurisdiction is conceded.
1st. There is no -repugnancy to the constitution, because no provision thereof forbids the enactment of law or ordinance, under state
authority, in reference to religion. le limitation of power in the
first- amendment 'of the Constitution is upon Congress, and not the
states.
2d. The provisions of the treaty of 1803 are functee ojciorur,
with regard to 'that porti6n of "the ceded territory?' which has keen
formed into states which have been admitted into the union. To
that. end the-guarantees in beAalf ofthe "inhabitanfs&"wexe directed
and confined, for no higher or other privilegea were claimed or provided for them; and it is hence submitted, that wlen a state, formed,
out of that territory, enters the union, the treaty, quoad hoc, has been
'executed, and has spentits force. The-" inhabitants" of Louisiana
have -provided their own securities for their-own rightsin their own
constitution, which they themselves have established; and the federal government has admitted hei into the union upon their owAi
terms. ahey have absolved the government from itstreity dues to
them, and the government has abolved itself from its-treaty. ditts to"
France on.their account.
'3d. So much of the ordinance of 1787 a* may have beer" extended to the people of' the ,Orleans territory -expired within the
jurisdiction of- Loilisiani when she was admitted as a state.into the
union. That ordinance is olderthan the Constitution, butit canfot,
to any extent, supersede it. The federal governmenit possesses no
powers but such as it has derived from the states; and no 'ne state
has conferred upon it, or can. conifer upon it, more: or less power
than any othier.state has conferred i or can confer. This retults from
the incapacity of the government to take, rather thah from he incapacity of the states tgive.' Hence there is, and must be,-from a
constitutional necessity, a perfect and unchangeable eiuallty. among
the states, not indeed in reference to the powers which they may
separately exercise, (for thit dejends upon their own municipal
constitutionQ)but.in reference to those which .they separately retain.
What Massachusetts may do, Louisiana may do. What Congress
-may not forbid Wassachuetts'to do, it nzty hot forbid Louisiana. to
do. -If Congress may not extend over Massachusetts the provisions.
of the ordinance of 1787, or anyporti6ns thereof, neither, can it over
Louisiana, or retain them there after Louisiana became Massachifsetts equal, and had the power to'decide for herself. If they are
retained there they derive their .excliuive obligation and force froi
Louisiana's adoption, and not from th "authority of Congress. They
have thus become laws of Louisiana, and have ceasedto be laws of

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

607

Permoli v. First Municipality

the United' Sates. If they have so ceased to be laws of the United.
States, 'how could the imputed repugnancy between them and 'the
city ordinances confer any jurisdiction upon this court?' As laws
of Louisiana, the judicial functionaries thither are the constitutional
and final expounders in cases between lher own eitizens, -like the
one at bar.
The act of Congress of the 8th April, 1812, which admitted Louisiana into the union, acknowledged that very equality with her
sovereign'sisters, which is here asserted. Tie 1st section provides"That the said state shall be one, and is hereby declared to be
one, of .the United States of America, and admitted into the union
on- ai equal footing with the original states, in all respects whatever.?" It is not The mere assertion of her equality, in this clause,
which establishes her equality-it only propounces that equality.
which the Constitution establishes. If she be equal, however, she.
must be equally exempt from the legislation of Congress, past or
future,'as her elder sisters. If the 1st article of the compact created
by the ordinnce of 1787, in these words, " No- person demeaning
himself in a peaceable ana orderly manner shall ever be molested
on account of his mode of worship or religious sentiments,".has
been extended over Massachusetts by any act of Congress, and
Through its dwn proper vigour has the force of-law, it binds Louisiana to the same extent, but no *further, and not otherwise.
The learned counsel for theplaintiff in error have cited two decisions of this court-the one 5'Peters, 515 the other 9 Peters, 235
-to sustain their position upon this branch of the issues raised by
the record; but it is presumed that there is some error in the references; for there is naught to be found at--those pages applicable to
the matter for -which they are cited.
A case ,has als6 been cited from 1 McLean's C. C. Rep. 341,
to maintain that the ordinance of 1787 survives the oranization of
,a state governmefit over territory to which it applies.. That may be,
in those new states which have been erected in the identical territory to which, tle compact contained in the ordinance relates. Nor
is the authority understood as extending beyond that. The case
arose'in Ohio. It had reference especially to the free navigatioi of
her waters, as secured-to the other 1states by the compact, and'it
may be doubted if Ohio could have deprived. them of that, though
there had been no compact. 'The learned judg6, in delivering his
opinion, and in speaking of the ordinance, says;
"Many of the provisions were temporary in their nature, having
for their object the organization and operation of a territorial government. Others assume the solemfi form of a compact between
the original states and the people and statis in the territory which
were to remain for eyer unalterable, unless by common c6sent."
The portion of the ordinarice thus deemed "unalterable," could
never have been made applicable to the "inhabitants" of the Orleans

608

SUPREME COURT.
Permoli v. First Municipality.

territory, because there could have been no such "compact" made
in reference to them; nor was it made. Indeed, other parts of the
opinion seem to assail the 1 ositionit was cited to support. Atp. 343,
the learned judge says:
"The change from' a territorial government to. that of a state
necessarily abolished all those parts of the ordinance which gave a
temporary organizatiQn to the government, and also such parts as
were designed to produce a certain moral and political effect. Of
the latter description were those provisions which secured the rights
of conscience---which declared that education should be encouraged,
and excessive bail should not be required," &c.
What "provisions" df.the ordinance "secured the rights 'of Conscience," other than those forbidding a person to "be-moles ted on
account'of his mode of worship,'or religious sentiments," already
quoted from the 1st article of 'e c6mpact? The counsel 6f the
plaintiff in error has made reference to no other "provisions," and.
it isbelieved there are none. Then we are fhrnished by the learned
counsel with the high' authority of Mr.Justice McLean, that these
"provisions" are 11 necessarily abolished," by the erection of a ter'ritry, in which they apply, into a state government-. And as this
is true of a territory embraced within the very limits to which the
compact originally referred, Afortiori must it be applicable to states
f6rined'out o territory anhde.
I it is biieved t]hat the opinion also sustains other views presented
in the aguinent in behalf of the defendants in error, in the following
passage:
" It may be admitted that any provision in the constitution of the
state must annul any'repugnant provision contained in the ordinance.
This is within the terms of the compact. The people of the state
.formed the constitution, and it waa sanctioned by Congress; so that
there was the ' common consent required by the compact to alter
or annul it."
So, too, the constitution-of Louisiana " was sanctioned by Congress." If there be a repugnancy between its provisions and those
"provisions" of the- ordinande referred to, those provisions are
annulled. If x1ot, then the state of Louisiana has retained them,
and made them her own proper laws, and they are, in.no.just sense,
-since then, laws of -the United States; for Congress is without
capacity to make for her, or'to extend over her sovereign domain,
any laws of Congress upon that subject.
The defendants in error- further rely on, and make reference to,
the well-reasoned opinion of the judge, a quo, and the authorities
cited therein.
Coxe, in reply, directed his attention chiefly to the other questions
in the case than that of jurisdiction, and referred to the ,opening

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

609

Permoli v. First Municipality.

argument of his colleague, Mr. Read, as a fiill exposition -of the
merits of the case.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
As this case comes here on a writ of error to bring up the proceed-.
ings of a state court, before proceediig to examini fie merits of the
controversy, it is our duty to determine whether this court hasjurisdi6.
tion of the matter.
The ordinances complained of, must vi6late the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or some authority exelcised under them;
if they do not, w6 have no power by the 26th section of the Judiciary Act to interfere. The Constitdtion makes no provision-for pro-,
tect g tb;e citizens of fherespective states in their religious liberties;
this is left to the state constitution and laws: nor is there any inhibition imposed by the Constitution of the United States in this respect
on the states. We must therefore look beyond the Constitution for
the laws that are supposed to be violatedi and on wiich our jurisdiction can befounded; these are the folldwing acts of Congress.
That of February 20, 1811, authorized the people 6f the territory
of Orleans to form a onstitution and state government; by sect. 3,
certain restrictions were imposed in the form of instructions to the
convention that might frame the constitution; such as that it should
be republican; consistent with -the Constitution of the United States;
that it should contain the fundamental principles of civil .and religious liberty; that it should secure the right of trial by jury in
criminal' cases, and the writ of habeas corpus; that the laws of the
state should be published, and legislative and judidial proceedings
be written,and recorded in the language of' the Constitution of the
-United States., Then follows bya second proviso, a stipulation reserving to the United. States the property in the public lands, and their
exemption from state taxation-with a declaration that the navigation of the Mississippi and its waters shall be common highways, 6c.
By the act of April 8, 1812, Louisiana was admitted aceording to
the mode pr. cribed by the tct of 1811; Congress -declared it
diould be on the conditions and 'terms contained in, the 3d section
of that act; which should be cofisidered, deemed and taken, as fundamental conditions and terms upon which the state was incorporated in'the union.
All Congress intended, was to declare in advance, to-the people
of the territory, the fundamental principles their constitulion should
contain; -this was every way proper under the circumstances: the
instrument having been duly formed, and presented, it -was for the
national legislature to judge whether it contained the proper pIeiples, and to accept-it if it did; or reject it if it did not. Havi
accepted the constitution and admitted the state, ",on an- evu
footing wiAh the orignal states in all respects whatever," in express
terms, by the act of 1812, Congress was concluded from assuming
VoL. IIL-77

610

SUPREME COURT..
Permoli v. First Municipality.

-that the instrictions contained in the act of 1811 had not been complied With. No funaamental principles could be added by way of
amendment, as this would have been maldng part of the state- constitution; if Congress could make it in part, it might, in the form of
amendment, make it entire. The conditioris and terms referred to
in the actof 1812, could oni -relate to the stipulations contained in
the second proviso of the act (;f 1811, involving rights of property and
navig-Ation; and in our opinion were not otherwise intended.
The principal stress of the argument for the plaintiff in error proceeded on the ordinance of 1787. The. act of 1805, chap. 83,.
havingprovided, that from and afteri the establishment of the govern-nent of the Orleans territory, the inhabitants of the same should be
entitled To enjoy all the rights, privileges, and advantages secured
by said ordinance, and then enjoyed by the people of the Mississippi
territory. It was also made the frame of government, with modifications.
In the ordinance, there are terms of compact declared to be thereby established, between the original states, and'the people -in the
states afterwards to be formed ncrth-west of the Ohio, unalterable,
unless by common consent---one of which stipulations is, that "no
person- demeaning himself in a peaceable manner, shall ever be molested oii account of his mode of worship, dr religious sentiments,
in the said territory." For this provision is claimed the sanction
of an unalterable law of Congress; and it is-insisted the city ordinances above have violated it; and what the force of the ordinance
is north of the Ohio, we do not pretend to say; as it is imnecessary
for the.purposes of this case. But as regards the stat of Louisiana,
it had no further force, after the adoption of the state constitution, .

than other acts of Congres organizing, in part, the territo'rial go.

veranent of Orleans, and standing in connection withthe ordinance
of 1787. So far as they conferred political rights, and secured civil
and religious liberties, (which 'are political rights,) the laws of Congress were all superseded by the state constitution; nor is any part
of them in force, unless they were adopted by the constitution of
Louisiana, as laws of the state. It is not possible to maintain that
the United States hold in trust, by force of the ordinance, for the
-people of Louisiana, all the great elemental principles, or any one
of them, contained in the ordinance, and secured to the people of
the Orleans territory, during its existence. It follows, no repugnance could arise between'the ordinance of 1787 and an act-of the
legislatnre of Louisiana, or, a city regulation founded on such act;
and therefore this court has*no jurisdiction on the last ground as.simed, more than on the preceding. ones. Exi our judgment, the
question presented by th6 record is.exclusively of state cognisance,
fnd equally so in the old states and the new ones;. and that the
w& of error must be dismissed.

