106

SUPREME COURT.
Qurtis v. Martin et al,

thority of Dorr, but at the. request of his friends, the prayer cannot
be granted. In this view it is unnecessary to decide whether the
counsel has stated a case, which, with the authority of his client, entitles him to a writ of error.
The motion for a habeas cormu is overruled.

EDWARD CURTIS,

PLAINTIFF IN .ERROR,

V. W LLIAM MARTIN

AND

CHARLES A. COE, DEFENDANTS.
An act-of Congress imposing a duty upon imports must be construed to describe
the article upon which the duty is imposed, according to the commercial undeistanding of the terms used in the law in our own markets at the time when
the law was passed.
The duty, therefore, imposed by the act Qf 1832 upon cotton bagging, cannot
properly be levied upon an article which was not known in the market as
cotton bagging in 1832, although it may subsequently be called so.

TnIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the southern district of New York.
It was an action brought in the court below by Martin and Coe
against Curtis, the collector, for return of duties upon certain importation's of gunny cloth, from Dundee, in Scotland, from April
to September, 1841.
The facts in the case are clearly stated in the following brief of
Mr. JVelson, attorney-general, who argued the case on behalf of
Curtis, the plaintiff in error:This was an action brought by the defendants in error against
Curti , as collector of the port of New York, to recover back the
sum of $4543 17 of duties, levied by him on a certain article as
cotton bagging, which, they contended, was gunny baggn, a nonenumerated article in the tariff of 1832, and therefore duty free; and
the. question in the cause was, whether this kind of bagging was cotton bagging within the meaning of the revenue laws? The dfies
were paid under written protest annexed to each entry.
By the tariff of 1832 it is enacted, that " dn cotton bagging three
and a half cents a square yard, without regard to' the weight or
width of the article," of duty shall be collected. This duty, modified by the Compromise Act, was chargeable when the goods were
imported.
The imported article, used as bagging for the packing of cotton,
is principally manufactured in the town of Dundee, in Scotland, and,
like the bagging of Kentucky, Was made of hemp, until the material
of which the gunny cloth, of India is mallufactured began to be used.
Bagging for cotton has also been made of cotton.
Gunny (Bengalee Gdni) is a coarse, strong sackcloth, manufac-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

107

'Curtis v. Martin .et al.

tured in Bengal, for making into bags, sacks, and packing generally,
the material being the fibre of two plants, natives of India, as.hemp
orignally was. (See article ," Gunny," in McCulloch's Dictionary
of Oommerce, American edition, vol. 1, p. 722.)
Gunny bagging is now manufactured in Scotland, as well as in
India; and it was admitted, on the.part of the defendants in error,
that the .importations in question came from Dundee, and were made
into New York between the nionths of April and September, 1841.
It was established, by the testimony on both sides, that gunny
cloth was imported largely into this country, solely for bagging for
the packing of cotton, sincj61835. In commercial language it has
since beenmown as cotton bagging; but in 1832, at the time of
the passing of the tariff of that -yeir, it was not so known. The
counsel for the collector contended, at the trial in the court below,
that if the article was, in commercial'understanding, known as cotton
hagging at the time of its importation, it was subject to'the duty,
and that the term cotton laggipg signified any fabric, withouit tegard
to the materials of *hich it is composed, that was used.to bale or
cover cotton, and prayed the bourt so to charge the jury, which his
honour reused; 'but, on the contrary, charged that the point upon
which the case turned was, whether the article in question was
known as cotton bagging in the year 1832, when the tariff act was
passed. le further charged that it was a settled rule of construotion of revenue laws, imposing duties on articles of a specified denomination, to construe the article according to the designation of
such articles as understood and known in commerce, and not with,
reference to the material of which they may be made, or the use to
which they might be applied; nor ought such laws'to be construed
as embraping all articles which might be pplied to the 'same use
and purpose as the specific article. If it had been the intention of
Congress to impose the' duty upon .all articles used for cotton
bagging, the language of the act would have been different, and in
terms prospective, adapted to such purpose; that it had been argued
on the part of the United States that the duty was intended to be
laid on all articles used for cotton bagging, because the duty ig laid
on cotton bagging "without regard to weight or mleasure ;" but
that the terms 11weight and measure" were intended to apply to
different materials then in- use for bagging cotton, such as hemp,
flax, and sometimes cotton cloth, &c., and not to any new articles that
might thereafter be apllied to that use; so that the whole question
was, whether gunny cloth was, in commercial understanding, known
as cotton bagging when the law was passed laying the duty, in
1832? If it was not, they Wvould find for the plaintiffs; i it was,
they would find for the defendant. To which charge, in every respect, the defendant's counsel excepted.
The jury found for the plaintiffi, now defendants in error.

108

SUPREME COUR.T.
Curtis v. Martin et al.

The cause now comes up bn a writ of error to this court, and for
error it is assigned-That the judge ought to have charged the jury that the act of
1832 was prospective; and that the legislature, in using the term
"cofton bagging," without di"nguishing the material of which it
was made, meant that all articles which thereafter should be imported for that purpose should be subject to duty; and that gunny
bagging, being known among merchants as cotton bagging at the
time of the importation of the bagging in question, was subject to duty.
"Lod,
for defendants in error, said that the points in the case were
the following:-,
1. That if gunny cloth was at the time of the passage of the act
of July 14th, 1832,'in" commercial Understanding, knowii as cotton
bagging, it was liable -to the -duty demanded under the 14th clause
bf.the 2&section of the act.
2. But if not so known' at the time of the passage of sich law,
then it was not liable'to the duty on.cotton baoging..
Whereupon he contended for the two following propositions, viz.:
1st. Under laws imposing.duties, articles are to be charged solely
according to their cor amercial designation at the time of the passage
of the law, and that whether the designation be of a class or of individual artieles. For this he cited I Story's R. 341, Bacon v. Bancroft;
Ibid. 642, Lee v. Lincoln; 9 Wheat. 434, 438, United States v. '200
clests tea; 8-PWters, 272, United States v. ---- sugar; 1 Sumner,
159, United States v. Breed; 1, 'Peters, 272, Elliott v. Swartwout.
2d. The construction claimed-.here by the importers is fully admitted by the government in the act of August,30th, 1842, whereby.
cotton bagging and gunny cloth are subjected, as distinct articles, to
different rates of duty. Acts of 27th Congress, 2d session, p. 180,
section 3, clause 3.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case. comes before the court upon a writ of error directed to
the Circuit Court for the so'atherit district of New York. The action
was brought by the defendants in error against the plaintiff, who was
the collector of the port of New York, to recover back .$4500, which
had been paid; under protest, as duties upon certain goods imported
into the port of New York, in April, 1841. The goods in question
were- gunny cloths, and were charged by the collector as cotton
bahedefendants in error 6ffered evidence to show that, in 1832,
when the law pass6d imposing the duty on cotton bagging, the article
in question was not used or known as cotton bagging- that it was
then only seen in the form of bags for India goods; that the first importationof gunny cloth, to be used as cotton bagging, was in 1834.
It is made from the yute grass.
The plaintiff in error proved that these goods, at the time of the

JANUARY TERM,8145.

109

Curtis v. Martin et al.

importation, were known in commerce as cotton bagging; that they
were made of the proper. width for that purpose, and, for several
years before this importation, gunny cloths had been imported and
used for'cotton bagging; and that the goods in question were imported from Dundee, in Scotland.
Upon this evidence, the counsel for the defendant contended that
if the jury foujid that the article gunny cloth was, in commercial understanding, known as cotton bagging at4he time of its importation,
it was subject to a duty; and thatie term cotton bagging, according
to the commercial understanding of the phrase, signified any fabric,
without regard to the material of which it was made, that was used
to bale or cover cotton, and prayed the court so to charge the jury..
His honour the judge refused sb to charge the jury; but, on the
contrary thereof, charged 'that the point upon which this case turns
isfor the decision of the jury, viz.: whether the article in question
in this case was known as cotton bagging in the year 1832,"when
the tariff act vas passed. It has long been a settled rule of construction -of revenue lawsi imposing duties on articles of a specifieI
denomination, to'cbnstrue the article according-to the dlesignation
of such article, as understood and known in commerce, and not
with reference to the -materials of which ihey may be made, or the
use to which they might be applied. Nor ought such laws to be
construed as embracing all aricles which might subsequently be'
applied to-the same use and purpose as the specific article. - If it
had bedn the intention- of Congress .to impose the duty upon all
articles used for bagging cotton, the language 'of the act would have
been different; and in terms prbspective, adaptedcto such purpose.
Itbhas been rgued, on the partof the United States, that the duty
was intended to be. laid on all'articles uied for baggingicton, be-.
cause~ the duty is laid on cotton bagging "without regard to veight
or measure." These terrns, "weight or measure," were intended
to apply to different materials then in uise for baggin cotton, such
as hemp, flax, and sometimes cotton cloth, &c., and not to any
new articles that might theieafter be applied to that'use. .S.o that the
whole question of fact for-the jury is whether gunny cloth was,in
commercial undersAafiding; known as cotton bagging when the law
was passed laing the duty, in 1832? If it was not, they will find
for the plainti; if it was, they will find for Ihe defendant.
To this charge, in every respect, the'defendant's. counsel excepted
,The jury., found a verdict foithe plaintiff for $4543 17, and six
cents costs.
The question brought up by this exception cannot now be considered as an open one. In the cise of the United States v. 200
chests o'f
tea, 9 Wheat. 438, fhe *courtdecided that in imposing duties Congress must be understood as describing the article upon
which the duty is imposed according tQ the commercial understandizg of the terms used in the law, in our own markets. This doctijue

110

SUPREME. C.O URT.
Swartwotkt v. Gihon et aL.

was re-afhmed in the case of the UnitedStates v. 112 casks of
sugar, 8 Peters, 277, and again in 10 Peters, 151, in the case of
Elliott v. Swartwout. It follows that the duty upon cotton baggifig
must be considered as imposed upon those articles only which were
known and understood as such in commerce in the year 1832, when
the law was passed'imposing the duty.
In the case before us, the Circuit Court followed the rule of construction above stated, afid it has been followed'also in every circuit
where the question has arisen. The judgment is therefore affirmed.

SAMUEL SWARTWOuT, PLAiNTrIF IN EnROR, V.

JoHN

GxNON ET. AL.

When an importer.means tQ contest the payment of duties, it is not necessary.
for him to give a v*ritten notice thereof to the collector.
The question of notice is a fact for the jury, and it makes no difference, for the
purposes for which it is required, whether it is written or verbal.
:THufacts in this case are sufficiently set forth,in the following
opinion.
Mr. Chief Justice *TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the'court upon a writ of error directed to
the Circuit Court for the southern district of New York. The action
was brought by the defendants in error against the plaintiff to recover
back certain sums of money paid to him as duties on brown linens,
imported into New York in 1836, 'of which port he was 'at that time
the collector. Some of these duties were paid under protest in
writing, and some without any written protest or, notice, but evidence was offered for the purpose ofcshowing thatthe defendants in
error verbally notified the cbltector that the duties charged on all of
these goods would be contested. The goods in question, *ere unbleached linens, and had been charged with duty as.coloured; and
the jury found a verdict against the colU&tor for the amount claimed.
At the trial' the court instructed the jury that a written notice 6f
the objections .to pay the. duties was not necessary, and that it was
* sufficient if a verbal notice was brought home to the collector; but
that the jury.must be satisfied that such notice was brought home
to him. To ,this direction the plaintiff in error ,excepted; and it
is upon this p6int only that the dase comes before this couit.
The only object of the notice was to yarn the collector thaf the
party meant to hold him personally ibsponsible for the -money,
whether he paid it over or not. It was. a question for the jury to
'decide whether notice'was oi was not given;, and it could make no
'difference, for the purposes for which it 7was equired, whether it was
Written or verbal. We think the charge of the court was clearly
rright, and the judgment is therefore affirmed.

