620

SUPREME COURT.
The United 8ates v. Marvin.

the places- not being the- sane. This change was refused at'the
land-office here, for the, reason that the decree excluded such a
change until it was altered by the proper judicial authority. For'
Itis purpose the petition for a re-learing was filed,. seeking to have
the decree of 1830 reformed, and that part of it establishing'localitr
and botindaries set aside or disregarded, and the land located elsewhere. This the Superior Court of Edst Florida had no power to.
do, on the facts set ff6rth by the petition, because the decree of this
court, made in affirmace of that made below, is conclusive on the
inferior court; and it has no authority to disturb it by the mode
proposed, but can only execute our mandate, and settle so much as
remains to be done. For the .principles governing in like 'cases,
we refer to the ex parte application of Sibbald, and the rules there
laid down, (12 Peters, 09- 490,) to which nothing need be 'added;
as they are altogether aders to the present proceeding, and show
that the petition was properly dismissed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLATS, V. WILLIA

MARVIN.

The act of .the 26th of May, 1830, pro-tiding for the final settlement of land
claims in Florida, must be construed to contain the'same limitation of time
within which claimt were to be presented is that provided by the act of 23d
of May, 1828.
That limitation was one year. The courts of Florida, therefore, bad no right
to receive a petition for the confirmation of an incomplete concession after
the 26th.of May, 1831.
The case in 15 Peters, 329,, examined and distinguished from the present.

Tins was an appeal from the Superior Court for the district of
East Florida.
It was a land- claim, and as the opinion of the court turned entirely'upon the q-uestion, whether or not the claim was filed in time
in the .cotrt below, it is. only necessary t state thb circumstances
which bear upon that point.
On the 23d of May, 1828, (1 Land Laws, 439,) Congress passed
uwact, the 12th section of which was as follows:
"That any claims to lands,,tenements, and hereditaments, within
the purview of this act, which shall not be brought by petition be.
fore said court within one year from the passage of this act, or which,
being brought before said court, shall, on account of the neglect or
delay of the claimant, not be prosecuted to a final decision within
two years, shall be for ever barred, bdth at law and in equity; and,
no-other action at coInmon law, or proceeding in equity, shall ever
thereafter be sustained in any court whatever."
On the 6th of May, 1830, another act was passed, (1 Land

JANUARY TER M, 1845.

621

The United States v..Marvin.

Laws, 466,) providing for the final settlement of land claims
in Florida. It confirmed certain claims under a league square,
which: had been recommended for confirmation by the register and
receiver of the land-office, acting as commissioners in the district
of East Florida, and then proceeded to enact by the 4th, section, as
follows:
"1That all the remaining claims which have been presented according to'law, and not finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and
finally settled upon the same conditions, restrictions, and limitations,
in every respect, as are prescribed by the act of Congress, approved
23d May, 1828, entitled "An act supplementary to the'several acts
providing for the settlement and confirmation of private land claims
in Florida."
On the 17th of June, 1843, Marvin filed in the clerk's office of
the Superior Court for the district of East Florida, a petition, claiming title to seven thousand acres of land which had been. granted to
Bernardo Segui, in the year 1815, by Estrada, then the Governor
of East Florida. He further stated that the claim had been presented to the commissioners, recommended by them to Congreis for
confirmation, aid confirmed by Congress to the extent of one league
square, by the act of May 23, 1828.
An answer being filed on behalf of the United States, and sundry
matters being given in evidence by the -petitioner, the cause came
on for trial, when the court decided that by the act.of Congress of
May 26, 1830, the claimant was not bound to fie his petition within
one year from the passage of said act, and then proceeded to. decree
in favour of the claim.
From this decree the United States appealed to this court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Nelson, (attorney-general,) on behalf of the United States, and by Mr. Marvin, for the defendant in
error.
Mr. Nelson referred to the acts of Congress above cited, and said
that the question.under this head was, -whether the limitation of time
prescribed by the act of 1828 was continued by the act of 1830.
The case in 15 Peters, 319, was relied upoh by the other side, and
was the foundation of the opinion giver by the court belpw. Bilt
the point did not'arise in, that case, because there a petition had
been fil- in time. In all other. land laws-there was a limitation,
because the policy of the government was to have all land claims
settled within.a given time.
Marvin argued in the following manner..
The p~tition in-this case was filed June 17, 1843, and the only
point of any difficulty in the.-case, and the only one argued in the
court below, is, whether the petition was filed in proper time.
The correct decision of this question depends upon the construction to be given to the 4th section of the-act of Congress of May 26,

6

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Marvin.

1830, entitled "An act to provide for the final settlement of land
claims in Florida," and to the 12th section of the act of May 23d,
1828, entitled "An act supplenientary to the several acts providing.
for the settlement and confirmation of private land claims in Florda.c
By the 4th section of the act of May 26, 1830, it is provided, that
"all the remaining claims which have -been presented according to
law, and not finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and finally
setled, upon the same conditions, restricti6ns, and limitations as are
prescribed in the act of 1828." This claim had been presented,
according to law, to the land commissioners, and by them presented
to Congress, and recommended for confirmation. It remained to be
finally settled, Congress confirming only to the extent of one league
square.
Thepoint of difficulty, if any,-is ithetrue meaning.of the words
1'conditions, restrictions- and-limitations:" These words do not neces-'
sarily mean a limitation as to time. By the 12th section of the act
of May, 1828, claims were to be brought by petition before the court,
within one year thereafter, i.. e. by May 23d, 1829, afid prosecuted
to filial decision in two years, i. e. by May 23d, 1830. Yet the Congress says, May 26, 1830,-more than two years afterward, that the
remaining claims shall be adjudicated upon the same limitations,
&c, as in the act of 1828, which would be impossible, if these
words included the idea of time; for the time to file -the petition,
and even for final decision, had already expired, and no proceedings could be had. But the Congress intended, by the 4th section
of the act of 1830, .that the proceedings should be had for a final
settlement. The title"of the act is, "to. provide for a final settlement," &c. These words then cannot intend a limitatioh as to the
time of commencing proceedings, but mean those various conditions, restrictions, and limitations, in regard to the practice, course
of proceedings, &c., &c., required by the act of 1828, and the
Missouri act -aponthe same subject.
This point was argued in the case. of the United States v. Delespine, 15 Peters, 319, and the court says, there "is iro direct limitation in the act of 1830." Will. the court imply a limitation as to
time in this highly remedial statute, and by such implication defeat
a final settlement of these land claims, to effect which was the object
of passing the act, and in wbich both parties are interested ; and
that, too, in a case where the minority of heirs repels any imputation of-laches on the part of the- claimants ? Justice and Ipblic'.
policy are both aainst any such implication.
Mr.. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree rendered by the Superior Court
of the district of East Florida, by which it was adjudged that no
liinitation existed to -the filing for adjudication a claim for land
under thM acts of 23d May, 1828, and of 26th May, 1830.

-JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

-23

The United States v. Marviv.
The petition to the Superior Court of Florida was filed in 1843
by Marvin, to have cinfirmed to him seven thousand acres of land
on the river St. John's, by a concession in the first form made in
favour of Don BerRardo Segui, on the 20th December, 1815, by
Goverflor E~trado : and the first question presented below was, and
is here, had the Superior Court jurisdiction to entertain the cause ?
That court having adjudged' that the act of 1830 had no limitation
in it,and our cenclusion being to the contiary, we will briefly state

our reasons for reversing the decree and for or&ring the petition to
be dismissed.
The first act conferring jurisdictipi on certain courts of the United States, to adjudge titles to land of the foregoing description, wqs
that of May 26, 1824, and applicable to lands lying withiii the state
of Missoui and territory of Arkansas. By-the 5th section of that
act it was 'declared, that all claims within its purview should Tbe
brought by petition before the District Court withinr two years from
the passing of the act ; and vihen so brought before the court, if the
claimant, by his own neglect or delay, failed to prosecute the cause
to final decision within three years, he'should b'e for ever barred,
both at law and in equity; and that no other action at common law,
or proceeding in equity should ever thereafter be sustained, in any
court whatever in relation to said claims.
By the act of 1828, sect. 6, the provisions of the act of 1824
were extended to the Superior Court of Florida, with some modifications; and among others by sect. 12, that any claims to lands
within the purview of that act which should n6t be brought by petition before the proper court within one year from the passing of the
act; or which, being brought before the court, should not on account
of thd neglect or delay of the claimant, be prosecuted to a final decision within two years, should be for ever barred; and that no
action at common law or in equity should ever thereafter be sustained in any court whatever. And by sect. 13, the decree was to
be conclusive between the United States and the claimant.
The act of 1830, in its 1st, 2d, and 3d sections, confirms
various claims; and in the 4th section declares, that all the
remaining claims which had been presented according to law to
certain boards of conimissioners referred to in the previous sections,
and not finally acted on by Congress, should be adjudicated and
finally settled upon the same conditions, restrictions and limitations,
in every respect, "as are prescribed'by the act of Congress approved
May 23, 1828, entitled an act supplementary to the several acts providiig for the settlement and confirmation of private land claims in
Florida." The last law Of 1830 is also entitled an act to provide
for the same purpose: It is supplementary to, and in effect re-enacts
the law of 1828; carrying with it the entire provisions of the previous statutes, save in so far as previous parts of them were modified by subsequent conflicting provisions. The policy of Congress

"0'24

SUPREME

OtTRT.

Price v.-S essionp.

•was to settle the claims m ,as short a time as practicable, so as to
efiable the govenment to sell the public lands. which could not be
done with propriety until the private claims were ascertained. As
'these'were niany in number, and for large quantities, no choice was
:ift to the governmeit biut their speedy settlement, and severance
-from the public domain; such his beenits anxious policy throughout, as appears, from almost every law passed on the subject. In
f828 the time for filing p~titions-before the courts was even reduced
from two, years. to one, and a positive bar interposed in case of
failure. This policy we think Congress intende& to maintain, and
that the *Qurtsof Florida had .no ju'ris diction to receive a petition
for the confirmation of an iicomplete 'concession like the one b'efore
us, after the 26th of May, 1831.
Some stress has been placed on the language employed by this
'court in 'Delspine's caie, 15 Peters, 329; and on which it is sup-posedthe court below founded its decree on the head of jirisdictidn.
There an amended petition.had been. filed after the expiration of a
rear' from the 26th of May, 1831, and the, quiestion was.whether the
defective petition, 'filed-in time, had.saved th6 bar, and it was held
that-it ha'd: But sb far ffom holding that no bar xisted, the contrary-is rather to be inferred; the direet question was neither d6cided
or intended to-be.
. -For.the reasons stated,-we order the7 decree of-the Superior Court
of 'East Flbrida to be reversed, and direct that thd6 appellees! .petition be dismissed.

L.,WSjtyN PRICE, JUN., Fog THE uSE oF DmNrEL W. GArLLRY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. MRTAA A. SEssIoNs.
'Where a testator devised certain pioperty to his infant daughter, to be delivered
over to her when she should arrive at' the age of eighteen years, and the
daunghter, at the age of-sixteen, married the executor who'had the principal
management of the estate, and possession of the property'devised, he must be
considered as holding it as executor, and not as husband.
The execuitors had no power to deliver the property to the daaughter, or to her
guardian, or to her husband, before th" happening of the contingency mentioned'in the rill.
The law of the state of Mississippi, providinrg that a wife should retain such
-property in hiar own right, notwithstanding her coverture, having gone into
operation before the daughter arrived atthe age'Qf eighteen years, the distribution to her -mustbe considered to have been made under that law.
The property, there'fore, cannot be xespdnsible for the husband's debts.

Tins case was brought up, by writ of error, from, the Circuit Couit
of the United States for the southern-diStrict of Mississippi.
The fats were these:
iJune, 1836, l6usseHi Smith died, leaving a will, the second sect.ioi

