JANUARY TERM, 184o.

EMmY

POULTNEY ET AL., APPELLANTS, v. THE CTY OF LYAYETTE,
IsAAc T. PRESTON ET AL., DEFENDANTS.

Before a case can be dismissed under the 21st rule, regulating equity practice,
there must exist, id the technical sense, a plea or demurrer on the part of the

defendant, which the plaintiff shall not have replied to or set down-for hearing before the second term of the court after filing the same.

.

-

The complainant, if he chooses, may go to the hearing, on bill and answer.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for East Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
The heirs of Poultney filed a bill in chancery against the City of
Lafayette and upwards of two hundred individuals.
It alleged that .Poultney had purchaged from. the Widow Rousseau a trat of land about. a mile 'nd a half above the city of New
Orleans in May, 1818; and that to secure the payment of part of
the purchase money, he had mortgaged the same land to her for.
$80,000, payable in five annual instalments of $16,000 each; that
Poultney died in October, 1819, leaving minor children, and*that
the defendants were in possession of the property, -which the complainants claimed a.right to redeem.
The proceedings which took place in court after this are exceedingly corplicated. Some of the defendants answeied, using this
expression, "the said answer tooserve and be instead of a demurrer
and pleas to the said.bill of complaint." Objections-were made to
'the jurisdiction of the court.on account of the.residence of the complainants, and a rule granted to tiy the fact of residence, which rule
was afterwards set'aside.
The bill was taken pro confesso as to many of the defendants,
who were *fterwards allowed to answer; numerous persons were
vouched in warranty by the defendants, and afterwards the proceedings stricken out; -demurrers were. filed and. overrled;- the
case was put upon the rule docket and then brought- back agaii;
three more defendants were brought in.
The answers, amongst other matters, averred that Poultney, at
the.time of his death, was insolvent, and that the proerty in question had been subjected to the operation of the laws in Lcudiiana
and s6ld to its present possessors.
In 1842, the following proceedings took place.
On this first Monday of January, 1842, appeared Isaac T. Preston and C. M. Conrad, Esquires, for defendants, and. filed in: evidence with the clerk and master the, following exhibits maTked A,
B, C, D, E, F, G, I,'M, N, 0, P; and, on further motion of said.
counsel, this cause is set for trial for hearing -on the merits, for Friday, the 14th January, 1842.
And afterwards, to wit,. on the 9th day of, February, one thou-'
sand eight hundred and forty-two; the following entry was made of
record, to wit:
VOL. 111.-ll

82

SUPREME COURT.
Poultney et aL v. City of Lafayette et al.

" Wednesday, February9, 1842.
"The court met, pursuant to adjournment. Present, the Honourable Theodore H..McCaleb, district judge; the Honourable John
McKinley, presidingjudge, absent.
Heirs of Poultney
v.
The city of Lafayette et als.)

No. 37.

"On motion of Isaac T. Preston, Esq., this cause -was called on
the &docket and fixed for trial for Wedne6say, the 23d February,
1842."
And afterwards, to wit, on the 23d of Februarv 1842, the f0lowing order of court was entered of record, to wit:
" Wednesday, February 23, 1842.
•"The court'met, pursuant to adjournment. Present, the Honourable Theodore H. McCaleb, district judge; the Honourablk John
Mcinley, presiding judge, absent.
)
Heirs of Peultney
No. 37.
v.
The city of Lafayette et als.)

"On the 23d day of February, 1842, tbis case was called for trial;
'whereupon the cotplainants*byt leir counsel, objected, upon the.
and
put]had
on the
wasnoimproperly
causethat
thatforthetrial;
ground
and that,
filed,docket,
beenissue
replication
set down
had todied
defendants
of the
of the court, some
the last
since
the
made"parties
been
had n~ot
or representative
heirsterm
and their
docket,
rule
the
to
cause
thi
remand
to
court
the
moved
and
suit;
defendants
the
hand,
that anissue might be formed., On the other
that the case sbould proceed immediately to trial, or be. disinsisted
missed under the rules of practice presented by the Supreme Court
in equity cases. These motions were all fully argued together, and,
to consider.
after argument thereof, the court took
And afterwards, to wit, on the 24th day of February, one thouadforty-two, the following entry and decree
sand teight hundre
were entsred of record, to wit:
"77T/rsday, Felnuii 24, 1842.
"The court met, pursuant to adournment. Present, Honourable
Theodore H. McCaleh, district judge ; Honoble John Mcknley,
presiding judge, absent.
Heirs of Poultney

s

37.
.No.
'v.
als.)
et
afayqtte
of
Tecity
"On this day the court proceeded

to deliver its opinion on the

the
When
cause. the
thisopinion,
in its
yesterday
and submitted
motions
counsel
to dever
it was about
announced
court hadargued
for the complainants moved to be allowed to file the documents A
and B, but the cou refused to receive them, stating that it was

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

83

Poultney et al. v. City of Lafayette et aL

about to deliver an opinion on the cause; upon [which] the counsel
for the complainants handed them to the clerk, the court considering that the complainants' application to file a bill of revivor or
exceptions caine too late.
Decree of the Court.
"The defendants having moved to dismis the bill of complaint in
this cause, under the 21st of the rules in equity cases, and it appearing tb the court that the complainants had not set for trial the pleas
filed in this case, nor filed replication.t6 the answers, although more
than two terms of the court had elapsed since the filing of the same,
it is ordered and adjudged, tnd decreed, that the bill of complaint
in this case be dismissed as to all the defendants, and the complainants pay the costs of suit."
From which decree, the complainants appealed to this court.
The case was, argued by Mr. Chinn (in writing) for the appel.

lants, and Mr. Coxe, for the appellees.
The following is an extract fiom Mr. Chinn's argument:
The bill in this cause was dismissed under the 21st rule of this
court, prescribed for the inferior courts in.chancery causes, because
"1the plaintiffs had not set for trial the pleas filed, nor filed replications-to the answers, although two terms of the court had elapsed
since filing the same." To all this it is confidently responded, that
there were no pleas filed in the cause. Some of the defendants,
availing themselves of the 23d-rule of'practice, instead of filing 'a
formal demurrer or plea, did insist on some special matter in the
answers, which they left with the clerk of the court, and claimed to
have the benefit thereof, as though they htn4 pleaded the same matter. They commence "The several, answer of," &.-" The said.
answer also to. serve and be instead of a demurrer and pleas to the
said bill of complaint. -- Was there then a plea in the cause-?
Surely not. There was something else; there was an answer -fo
serve and be instead of a plea, and of which the party claimed the
advantage, as under the answer and not under a plea: and so. it
.was regarded by the court when an application was made to it to
t7 the question of citizenship :-and alth6ugh the party could avail
himself of all the matter, by way of answer, the plaintiff could not
otherwise regard it than as an answer, and could do no otherwise
,towards forming an issue, without leave of court, than file a general
replication to it, as an answer.
it is said, in the order dismissing the bill, that more than two'
terms had elapsed since filing the pleas. Now if the most rigid
and technical interpretation of the rules are to be had, and they
shall be conformed to to the letter, it becomes important to ascertiin, hen the pleas of the defendant were filed. The answers of
some of the defendants appear to have been lodged with the clerk; there was no
of the court in his office, on tfie day of

84

SUPR EME COURT.
Poultney etal.

1.

City of Lafayette et aL

notice taken of them upon the rule docket or in the minutes of the
court, and consequently they were not parts of the xecord; the. de;
fendants were not bound by them;-.and te-complainants were rot
notified of their being on file. On the 24th, 30th, and-31st of
Dpecember, 1839, aifl on the 19th February, 1840, notes are made
upon the rule docket of the filing of answers upon those days, hut
ipthing is said about the filing of pleas. Neither of those days
were or could have been rule days; consequently the act was nugatory. On the 24th of December, 1839, a inotin was sustained -to
set aside the decree nisi, and .lea'e was given the- defendants to file
answers, which does not appear from the minutes then to have been
done; and the complainants wer6,'by order of. the court, protected
in their right thereafter to file any exception to the answers that
might be filed. Let it he borne in mind, that the ddcree,nmisi was'
set aside without putting the parties defendant upon any. terms
whatever; 'they were not even compelled, to pay costs.
In the answers various record and documents are properly referred
to as exhibits, and constitute parts of the ansivers-4-'ie most mate-.
rial and only important parts, and without the filingpf which the
plaintiff could not safely proceed in making up'an issue in the cause.
At the January. rules, 1842, these exhibits were. for the first time
filed, and noted upon the rule docket-they never having been
before even lodged with- the clerk; Up. to that time the filing of
answers was not complete; then for thd first time the cause ftood
upon bill and aiswef-and at. the same time the cabse was set for
hearing by the 'defendants, on ti merits, fok Friday, the 14th Janupry, 1842; at the same tinie -they suggested the death of Layton,
and the names, of his heirs, and took an order at the rules thM: they
be parties. There was then clearly a miscpnception by the court,
that more than two terms hal elapsed since the filing of the pleas
and before the order dismissing the bill.
It doth clearly appear from the 17th rule, that issues .are to be
formed, and causes are to be prepared for trial, at the rules and
upon the rule days, and that neither party is bound to notice the
proceedings of his adversary except they be.then entered in the rule
book, or they be had in open court.
The court below predicated its order dismissing the bill somewhat upon the failure of the plaintiffs to file replications to the
answers, and sufferingtwo terms to expire.
. Pending a motion made by the complainants to set aside the rule
for hering of the cause upon its merits, and to remand the cause
to the rule docket, fhat an issue might be had, and during the argument of-that motion, the defendants moved to dismiss the bill under
the 21st rule, without any previous ruld therefor,. without -any previous notice thereof, and in diredt conflict with theix rule f'fr a trial
of the cause upon its merits, which they had taken. The- court, in
pronouncing the order, says: "The defendants having -moved to.

JANUARY TERM, 184.

85

Poultney et alv. City of Lafayet-te et al.

dismiss, under the 21st rule, and it appearing to the court that the
complainants had not set for trial the plehs filed, nor filed replications to the answers, although two terms of the court had elapsed
since the filn- the same, it is ordered and adjudged, and decreed,
that the suit le dismissed "as to all of the defendants." In response, therefore, to an application to reinand the cause tb the rules,
and in response to an application to dismiss under the 2i'st rule, he
does dismiss under that rule; and beca-dse the plaintiff had not
feplied"to the answers.
The plaintiffs were. not bound to notice or reply to the answers
until two calendar moiths after they were. put in, filed at the rules,
or in open c6urt; and upon their failure to reply, or file e3ceptions,
they might be ruled to reply; and upon the expiration of that rule,
and no replication or exceptions fil~d, the suit might be dismissed:
but even then, in the 'discretion of th. "court, the cause might be
retained upon the payment of cost.-1 zle 13th. But in tbW case
.there had been no rule -forreplication.. 'N6 pains of dismissal could
be inflicted upon the plaintiff for failing to reply, until he was ruled
to do so. It was then a vain iniocation of the 13th ruld to sanction
a dismissal ujroved for under the 21st.
After filing a replication it would be .too late to except to an
answer; but the courts, in the -exercise of a sound discretion, and
for the attainment of justice, would suffer the replication to be withdrawn and exceptions had. "But5 at any time before replicationl it
is the right of the plaintiff; at the rules or in open court, to file exceptions to the defendants' an.~wers; and this right was particularly
secured to the plaintiffs, without limitation as to time, 1qpon setting
asidi the decree nisi. The court will not ordinarily'set aside a decree nisi4 until the coming in of a sufficient answer. In this case.
the rule w.yas ex gratia departed from; reserving the right.of th6
plaintiff to reply to the answers when they should-come in.Upon the trial of the plaintiffs' motion, and before the decision
therebf-when there had been no rule for replication, and the party's
right to file exceptions to the defendants? answers would appear to
have been unquestionable-they offered to do so," but the court
refused them permission; and, inasmuch as Robert Layton had
subsequently to the preceding- term departed this life, and his heirs
were not properly before the court, the plaintiffs offered to file a bill
of revivor against them, which the court refused to permit: and
without accepting any terms, or putting the plaintiff upon any terms
to speed-the cause, put an end to the cause by pronouAcing a final
decree-and did not, even in that, reserve to the plaintiffs the right
-,to commence de novo.
It is supposed that the decretal order dismissing the-plaintiffs"bili
is erroneous for its ambiguity, and. want-of reasonable judicial certainty. After dismissing the bill as to all the defendants-which
ap'liesto all who had-been served with process,'or who had beer%

H

SUPREME COUIT.
Poultney et al. v. City of Lafayette et al.

made defendants in the bill, and who had not answered-the decree
proceeds: "and the complainants pay the costs of suit with regard
to such of the defendants as had filed pleas of demurrers-the complainant having failed to reply to or set for hearing such pleas or
demurrers before the second term of the court after filing the same,
agreeably to the 21st of the rules of practice'for the courts of equity
of the United States, as prescribed by the Supreme Court of the
United States."
Proctor filed the only demurrer that was filed in the cause. An
issue was had speedily. "Itwas set for hearing, and inasmuch as
Layton. and others relied upon the same matters, they were all heard.
The deinurrers were overruled, and the defendants ordered to answer over, which Proctor has never done, notwithstanding which
he has succeeded in turning the plaintiff out of court. Now can
this court ascertain from the decree, -which of the persons named
as defendants in the complainants' bill are entitled to their costs?
&c., &c.
We therefore conclude that the infei ior court erred,1. In deciding that the defendants, or any of them, had filed pleas
in the cause.
2. That the failure of the plaintiffs to set such pleas down for
trial should be visited with the pains of dismissal of their bill.
3. That the plaintiffs were in default-in not replying to the defendants' answers.
4. In refusing leave to the' plaintiffs to file exceptions to the
answers, and a bill of revivor against the heirs of a deceased party.
5. In disihissing the plaintiffs' bill as to all or any of the parties.
6. In awarding costs to the defendants, or any of them, and.not
defining to whom.
7. In refusing to award a rehearing of the case upon the'petition
and affidavit filed.
Coxe, for appellees, said that after the case was argued in the
court below, and when the courf was about to deliver its opinion,
some papers were presented,' but the court very properly said it was
too late. The printed argument refers to the position of the case
when the judge decided it; and there was nothing inthis position
to prevent the complainants from filing a replication. The record
shows that they endeavoured to excuse themselves for this omission
by filing a petition for a re-hearing; and it is, in fact, from the refusal of the court to grant this'that theappeal was taken.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for the
easterfi.district of Louisiana.
To determine the point brought up.by the appeal, it is unnecessary to state the substance of the bill-or answers. On motion, the
Circuit Court dismissed the bill, under the 21st rule, because the

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

87

Kendall v. Stokes et al.

9ccomplainants had not set -downffor hearing the pleas filed in this
case, nor filed replication to the answers, although more than two

terms-of the-court had elapsed since filing of the same."
The rule referred to is, "if the.plaintiff shall 'not reply to, or set
for hearing any plea or demurer baore the second term of the court
after filing the same, the bill may be dismissed, with costs."
No
plea had been filed in the case, and the demurrer filed had been
overruled, so that the rule did not applyto the case as it stood at the
time of the dismissal. The rule can only apply to demurrers and

pleas technically so called.

And there is no other rule of proceed-

ing which authorized the decree of the court. The complainant
may, if he choose, go to the hearing on the bill and arswer.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause is re.

manded for further proceedings.

Amos KENDALL, PLAiN=y IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM B. STOKES, Luoius
W. STOOKTON, AND DANrrL MooRE, suRivoRs oF RicHArD-C. STO'cKTON, DEFENDANTs IN ERROR.

[The reader is referred to a former case betwee'n these parties, reported
in 12 Peters, 524. The decision of the court in the present case is so intimately
conpected with the facts ' u both, that it is impossible to give a clear account.
of the principles established, without a reference to those facts.]
After the decision in the former case Stokes, &c., brought a suit against Keudall, which rested ultimately on two counts, viz., the first and fith. The first
claimed dax.ages for the suspension, by Kendall, on the books of the Postoffice Department, of certain credits which had been entered by his predecessor. The fifth, for the refusal, by Kendall, to credit Stokes, &c., with the
•amount awarded in their favour by the solicitor of the Treasury.
The damages claimed in the first count constituted a part of the reference to
the solicitor, as shown by the plaintiffs below intheir own evidence.
After a reference, an award, and the reception of 'the money awarded, another
suit cannot be maintained on the original cause of action, upon the ground
that the party had not proved, before the refiree, all the damages he had
sustained, or that his damage -exceeded the amount which the arbitrator
awarded.
The acts complained of were not ministerial, but were official acts, done by
Kendall in his character of postmaster-general. Apublic officer, acting from
a sense of duty, in a matter where he is required to exercise discretion, is not
-liable to an action for an error of judgment.
With regard to the fifth count, the application for thd mandamus covered the
same ground as that taken iu this count. Both rested on the refusal of Kendall to pay a sum of money to which Stokes, &c., were lawfully entitled.
But where a party has a choice of remedies for a wrong done, selects one, proceeds to judgment, and reaps the fruits of his judgment, he cannot afterwards
proceed in anofher suit for the same cause of action.,
This is espicially true where the party has resorted to a mandamus, because it
is not issued where the law affords a party any other adequate mode of redress. To allow him to maintain another suit for the same cause of action

