JANUARY TERM, I846.
Dickson v. Wilkinson.

57

made in pursuance of that act; -and.as the 2d section of the act of
the 26th of April, 1822, declared ".That hereafter the holders and
locators of such warrants shall be bound, in locating them, to conform to the sectional and quarter-secti6nal lines of the public surveys,
as nearly as the respective quantities of the warrants 'will admit, and
all such warrants shall be located within one .year after the passage
of this act; in default whereof the same shall be -null and void;"
and as no location and survey were made in conformity with the 2d
section, the warrant, survey, and patent, are utterly void. See
Lindsey v. Miller, 6 Peters, 675.
, Secondly. The decree confirming the claim of Mackay's heirs, by
the Supreme Court of the United States, under the treaty, was a full
and ample admissi~, that. the United States had no right to the land
covered by that claim. The title which they acquired to this land,,
under the treaty, was, therefore, held'by them in trust for Mackay's
heirs, or any other person having a better title, under -the treaty.
The decree of confirmation related back to the date of the concession, by the Spanish governmenti to Mackay, and made the title as
complete as if it had been completed by that government before the
treaty, notwithstanding the several intervening acts of limitation
passed by.Congress.
Thirdly. The location, survey, and patent, under which Gamble
claimed, being void, the 11th section of the act of the 96th of May,
1824, chap. 173, did not apply to this case. Because, in the language of the section, it did not "so happeil that the land" had
been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States. Therefore, Mackay's.heirs, or those claiming under them, were not authorized, and much less bound to enter other land in lieu of that
confirmed and granted. to them by the decree and patent.
Mr. Justice STORY and Mr. Justi~e WAYtN concur in these reasons.

JAJs .N. AND LEVi DicKsoN, PLARTrrs, v. WnxLiUs H. WMEJINsON,
ADMINISTRATOR' Or

oHN T. WILKINSON, DECEASED.

There was a judgment against an administrator of assets quando accidrint.
Upon this judgment a scirefaciaswas issued, containing an averment that goods,
chattels, and assets had come to the hands of the defendant.
Upon this scire fadas there was a judgment by default; execution was issued,
and returned ",nu!ls bona."
A scire facias was then accorded against the administrator, to show cause why
the plaintiffs should not have execution "de bonispropriis."
ft was then too late to plead that the'averment in the first scirefadas did not
state that assets had come into the hands of the administrator subsequent to
the judgment quando.
A jbdgment by default against an executor or administrator, is an admission of
.assets to the extent charged in the proceeding against him.

VoL. IL-8

58

SUPREME COURT.
Dickson v. Wilkinson.

Ifa-party fail to plead matter in-bar to the original action, and-judgment pass
against-him, he cannot .afterwards plead it in an6ther action founded on that
judgmdnt; nor in'aidrefadaw.
A demurrer reaches no further back than the proceedings remain infier, oi under the control of the court.

Tins case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the ,middle district of Tennessee, upon a certificate, of division 'in
opinion between the judges.

All the facts which are necessary to' an. understanding of-the point
are stated in the cerflcate,'.as f6llows:The plaintiffs, -at September, term, 1837, with the deeridant's'consent, had a judgment of assets.quand acciderint. .On'the 2d of
October, .1838, upon their suggestion of-assets come to the defendant's hands, a scire facias wa.s accorded them to be made kmown
to the defendant to show'cause why they should not have execution
of those assets. This scirefaciaswas issued on the,10th of Janiiary,
1839, and after reciting the judgment *qwando, it contained the: following, and no other, averment of the comingof assets to the 'defendant's hands:--" And whereas, afterwards, to wit, on the 2d day of
October, 1838, it was suggsted to the said court, on behalf of the
said plaintiffs, that goods, chattels, an.d assets -had'come to the hands
of the defendant, suficient to satisfy. the'sid judgient; and it was
thereupon ordered by said court, that a scirefacwsa issde; -and we
theffeore.hereby command .you, &c." -This-writ was made known
to the defendant, and the plaintiffs-thereupon, by his defiult, at September term, 1839, had judgment of exrecution of the 'intestate's
goods in the defendant's hands.to be administered, if so much, and
if-not, then the costs de bonis propriis. - ..On'he 9th of October, 1839;
execution was issued accordingly, and returned to March rules, 1840,
nulla boma, except as to the costs, which were levied de bovzis propris.
A scirefacias was now'accorded'against the defendant to show cause
why the plaintiffs should n6 t have execution of their demand de bonis
prpriis: and this writ was issued, made known to the defendant,
and returned to September term, 1840, -when he appeared, and
pleaded to it fully adminis ered, and a,special plea, that the insol-vency ofthe intestate's estate had been suggested to the proper Tennessee authority, and a bill in equity filed in a tate- court.to admin'iter hig effects according to the laws of Tennessee. To these pleas
the Plaintiffs demurred, and on the argument of the demurrer, thb
defendant's counsel, against 4warding execution de bonis prorliis,
sluwed for cause, that the judIgment by default upon the first scire
faias did not establish the fact, that any goods, &c., had coma.to
-the defendant's hands since the judgment of assets quando accider;int
because the said first scire facias aid not aver that goods; &c., had
com.to the defendant t s tands since the said judgment quando, but
only that those goods had come to his hands, without s agnwhen;
and a judgment by default only admits suchl"facts as are alleged;

ZAN UARY TERM, .1845.
.Dic'son

v. Wilkinson.

that unless t record showed thai assets had come to his hands since
the said judgment quando, and that such assets had been- eloigned
and wasted, no execution could issue, against th6 defendant to be
levied de bonis
Arnpri.And
the counsel for the plaintiffs insisted
that advantage should have been taken of the alleged defect in the
first scirefacuas at'the term to which it was returnable, and returned,
by plea or demurrer; that the judgment by default was a waiver of.
errors in the process,- aud so- that the said error, if it be -one, could
not be reached by the demurrer.aforesaid.
" And upoi said. point, whether advantage could be taken of the
aforesaid defective averment in the first scirefacids, upon the plain-'
tiffs" demurrer to the defendant's pleas to the second scirefacias, the
opinions of the judges are opposed7 '
Andit is thereupon ordered, that the foregoing statement of facts,
involving said point, upon which said disagreement occurs, made
under the direction of the judges,-and at the request of the plaintifls
by their attorney, be certified to the Supreme Court for their opinion
upon said point, according to the' act of Congress in that case made,
and provided."
The case was arguedly Mr. Fraiwis .Bine4,
for-the plaintiff,
who maile the -following-points:"
1. The first scire facias was sufficiently accurate as to form. It
aver' that on the 4th of 'Septembei, 1837, judgmeiit was rendered
for the plaintiff; against the gssets qua.ndoacciderint. It then avers
that afterwards, on the 2d of October, 1838, (inore than a year,),the
plaintiffs.suggested that aqsts had come into the hnds of the defendaut, sfficient to satisfy the judgment. The two, facts together
-form the .connected proposition, that assets had come into the hands
of the'defendaht.since thejudgment quando. In the case of Platt v.
iobins et al., 1 Johns. C.-.276, there is no oetter averment; yet no
objection was taken to th- form. "Diverse goods and chattels which
were of the intestdte, to the-,amount of the damages recovered, had
come -to the hands-of the defendants," is the language in. that case.
2. If the averment in the flist scirefacias be imperfect, the objection cannot now be taken; it.should have been made by plea, when
that rif 'was returnable: The general rule is, that if a party do not
avail himself of the opportunity of pleading matter in bar to the qriginal action, -he"cannot 'afterwards plead it) either in another action
fouiided on it, or in a.scirefacias.. Cook v. Jones, 2 Cowper, 727;
Wheatley v. Lne,'1 Saunders, 216, note 8, by Williams.'
3. The defendant cannot plead. any plea to the second scire-faclas
.which puts his defence upon the vant of assets; for such plea would
be contrary to what is admitt(t by.his default in the first vire faIsThe defaultis an admission of assets. -Tfeilv. Edwards, 6 ModernM
308; Rockv. Leighton5 1 Salk. 310; Platt v. Robins et al., 1 Johns.
Ca. 276: Skelton v. Hawling, 1 Wilson, -258; Ruggles et al. v.
-

60

SUPREME COURT.
Dickson v. Wilkinson.

Sherman, 14 Johns. 446; The People v. The Judges of Erie Cqunty, 4 Cowen, 446. This last case shows the practice to be to issue
execution de bonis prepriis,whether nulia bona or devastavit be returned by the sheriff. Iglehart v. Slate, for the use of'Mackabin,
2 Gill & Jobns. 235; Griffith v. Chew, 8 Serg. & Rawle i 17. A
cognovit actionem, by. executor, is an admission of assets. Den v.
De Hart, 1 Halsted, 450.
4. The point raised by the special plea is as to the effect of the
proceedings in insolvency in the local courts. If the proceeding be
in the nature of a commission of insolvency, then the pendency of such
commission is no bar to a scire facia against the administrator, in a
judgment had against him. Hatch v. Eustis, 1 Gall. 160.
Mr.Justice McKINLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before this court upon a certificate of division
of opinion of the Circuit Court for the middle district of Tennessee.
The pasintifls had judgment against the defendant for$1169 88
debt, and $110 94 damages. "And itapjearing to thh satisfaction
of the court, by the admson of the plaintiffs, thai no assets of the
intestate
come have
to the hands
of theto defendant,'it
was goods
adjudged,
and
be leved of the
execution
paintifs
that the had
chattels, and assets, which might thereafter come to the hands of the
defendant to be dministered." Upon this judgment afi.fa, issued
to be levied of the assets of the testator, which might thereafer come
of the defendant to be administered:'
to the hands
au was
day offt.fa,
On the 10thwhich
returned by the marshal nulla bon.
1839, a scire frcias issued against the defendant, upon suggestion
that assets of the intestate, sufficient to satisfy the judgment, had
come to the hands of the defendant. Upon this scire facias there
was judgment aoainst the defendant by default, to be levied'of the
goods and chattels of the intestate, in his hands to-be administered.
Aft. fa. issued upon this judgment, which was also retufned nulla
And thereupon another screfaciasissued against the defendant to
have judgment against him de bonis pro'ils, to which he pleaded,
administravit; secondly, that no assets ever caine to his
first, "pleme
hands; and thirdly, that the estte of the intestate was insolvent at
were grated; and that in'purthe tifie the letters of ad j gminstraton
suance of the act of the G~neral Assembly in such case made and
provided, he had suggested, to the clerk of the county court, the inthe plaintiffs
pleas
To these
said estafe,the&c.counsel
of argument
"that
solvency
insisteddemurdefendant
for the
and in
red,
not e ablise"
did
faciis
scire
first
the judgment by default upon the
the fact, that any goodsa &c., had cometo the hands of the defendant, since the judgment'of assets quando acciderint; because the said
first scire facias did hot aver, that goods, &c. had come to the de-.
fendant's hands knce the said judgment guando; but only, that said

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

61

Dickson v. Wilkinson.

goods, &c., had come to his hands, -without saying when; and a
judgment by default only admits such facts as are alleged. That un-"
less the record showed that assets hid~come to his hands since ihe
judgment guando, and that guch assets had been wasted, no execution
could issue against the -defendant to be levied de bonqi. yropriis."
And the counsel for the plaintiffs ifisisted "that the alleged defect,
'in the first scirefacias, should have been taken advantage of at the
first term to which it was, returnable, by plea or demurrer 'that the
judgment by default was awaiver of errors in the process; and so
the error, if it be one, could not b reached by -the demurrer."
"And upon said point, whether advdntage could be taken of the
aforesaid defective averment in the first scirefacias, upon the plaintiffi' demurrer to the defendant's fleas to the second scirefacias,the'
opinions of the judges were opposed."
A scirefacias is an action to which the defendant may plead an
legal matfer of defence. And in this case thel.defendaut might haive!
pleaded the same matter in bar to the Arst scire facas, whi&ch he offered to plead to' the second. - O if he considered the first sire fa.
clas insufficient in law, he might'have demurred to it. Having dond.
neither, judgment by default was properly taken against him. And
it is well settled, that a judgmet by default 'against an executor, o
administrator, is an admission of assets to thb extent charged in the
proceeding against him, whether it be by action on the original judg-.
ment or by scire facias. Ewing's Executors v. Peters, 3 Term"R.
685 ; The People v. -The Judges of Erie,- 4 Cowen, 446. FaiL
ing to mike the money out of the assets of the intestate, on the first.
scire faqcas, the 'plaintiffs prosecuted the second to have judgment
aga st the defendant, to be levied 6f his ofn proper goods, &c. To
this he-pleaded the.three pleas before'*mentioned.
It is a universal rule. of law, that if the party fail to plead matter in
'bar to th originalaction, n:d judgment pass against him, that he can.not afterwards plead it in another action founded on that judgment;
norin a s6re faias*(see the authorities ab'ove cited.') The demurrer of the plainfiffi to the defendant's pleas was, therefore, well taken.
And although either party may, on a demurrer, take advantage of
any defect or'fault in pleading, in the previous proceedings in the
suit, the demurrer can reach no further back than the proceedings
remain infier7i, and 'under the control of te court.. The judgment
on the first scirejacias, although ancillary to the original judgment,
and the foundation of the proceeding on the second scirefacias,was,
nevertheless, a final judgment, and, in 'that count, conclusive upon
the parties; and opposed an insuperable bar to any plea of either party,
whether 6f law or of fact, designed to go beyond it.
.It is the 6pinion of thio
that advantage could not
be taken of any defective averment in the first scireacias, upon the
demurrer of thflplaintiffs to the pleas of the defendant; which is ordered to bevertified to said Circuit.Court.,
F

