292

S-UPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

court below excluding the publication declared upon as a libel from
going to the jury in connection with other evidence to establish the
existence of malice. We forbear any remark upon the intrinsic
character, of the injury complained of, or upon the extent to 'which
it may have been made out. These are matters not properly before
us. But if the publication declared upon was to be regarded as an
instance of privileged publications, malice was an indispensable
characteistic which the plaintiff would have been bound to establish
in relation to it. The jury, and the jury, alone, were to determine
whether this malice did or did not mark the publication. It would
appear difficult a priorito imagine how it would be possible to appreciate a fact whilst that fact was kept entirely concealed and out
of view.- This question, however, need not at the present time be
reasoned by the court; it has, by numerous adjudications, been
placed beyond doubt or controversy. Indeed, in the very many
cases that are applicable to this question, they almost without an
exception concur in the rule, that the question of malice is to be
submitted to the jury upon the face of the libel or publication itself.
We refer for this position, to Wright v. Woodgate, 2 Crompton,
Mees. & Rbs. 573 ; to Fairman v. Ives, 5 Barn. & Ald. 642 ; Rob-inson v. May, 2 Smith, 3; Flint'v. Pike, 4 Barn. & Cre8. 484, per
Littledale, J.; b. 241, Bromage v. Prosser; Blake v. Pilford,
1 Mood. & Rob. 198;' Parmeter -. Coupland, 6 Mees. & Welby,
105; Thomson b. Shackell, 1 Moo. & Mal. 187. 'Other cases
might-be addaced to the same point.
Upon the whole we consider the opinion of -the Circuit Court, in
the several instructions given by it in these cases, to be erroneous.
We therefore adjudge that its. decision .be reversed; that these
causes be remanded to the said court, and that a venire fads de
novo be awarded to try them in conformity with ihe principles herein
laid down.

"Ex-PART., THE CITY BA&i'K OF NEW ORLEANS In THE xATrER OF WaI.
LIA CHRISTY, ASSIGNEE OF DANIL T. WAIiEN, A BANKRupr.
This court has no revising power over the decrees of the District Court sitting
in bankruptcy; nor'is it authorized to issue a writ of prohibition to it in any
case except where the District Court is proceeding as a court of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction.
The District' Court, when sitting in bankruptcy, has jurisdiction over liens and
mortgages existing upon the property of a bankrupt, so as to inquire into
their validity and extent, and grant the same relief which the ptate courts
might or ought to grant.
-The control of the District Court over proceedings in the state courts upon such
liens, is exercised, not over the state couts themselves, but upon the parties,
through an'inijunctioii or.pther appropriate proceeding in equity.

JANU'ARY TERM, 1845.

293

Ex 'xarte Christy.
The design of the Bankrupt Actwas to secure a prompt and effectual admiiistration of the estate of all bankrupts, worked out by the courts of theUnited
States, without the assistance of state tribunals.

The phrase in the 6th section, "any creditor or creditors who shall claim any'
debt'or 'demand under the bankruptcy," does' not.mean only such creditors
who come in and prove their debts, but all creditors who have a present subsisting claim upon the bankrupt's estate, whether they have a security or
mortgage therefor or not.
Such creditors have a right to ask that the property mortgaged shail-besold,
and the proceeds applied, towards the payment of.their debts-'andtTheas.
signde, on the other hand, may contest their claims.
In the case of a contested claim, the District Court has jurisdiction, if resort be
had-to a formal bill in equity or other plenary proceeding;- and also jurisdiction ta proceed summarily.

Tins was-a motion on behalf of the City Bank of New, Orleans,
for a prohibition, to be. issued to the District Court of. the United
States for the district of Louisiana.
The suggestion for the prohibition stated the following as facts-in
the case:
. First. That Daniel T: Walden, of the city of New' Orleans, on the
27th July, 1839 and on the 17 1 day of August, .1839i executed
two several mortgages to the City Bank of New Orleans, 0n a -certain plantation, and on lots of land in said state, to secure'payment
of $200,Q00 borrowed of said bank; which mortgages were.duly
recorded, and in-all respects good and valid, and created a good,
legal, and, equitable lien: on te property mortgaged for paymen.t of
said debt. That, on or abbut, 20th October,. 1840, Walden "insti
tuted suit in the state District Cotjrt, to ket aside said mortgakes, for
the same causes, substantially, it§ William Christy (Walden's subsequent -assignee in bankruptcy) has"presented by'his petition and
'amended petition in the District'Court of the United States Pt New
Orleans, ,exercising summary jurisdiction in bankruptcy, to -t aside
the same mortgages, 'as per certified copy of the proceedings in th&
District Court of the United States -herewith annexed; and the state
court, on appeal, decided finally" agoinst Walden's' complaint, and
sustained the mortgages.
Second. That, aftdrward, the bank.proceeded tp foreclose its molgages in the state court; 'and -thereupon, on'17th May, 1842, an order of seizure, arid sale was made,.,and an actual seizure. of the- property executed on 19th May, 1842.
Third. That, on 18th June, 1842, the said Walden filed his petition.for the benefit of the .bankrupt act, in the'District Court of the
United States at New- Orleans, and on the .18th July, 1842, said
court decreed him to be a bankrupt.'
Fourth. That, after Walden filed his petition, and before decxeed,
a bankrupt, viz., on 27th June, 1842, he applied to the said District
C6urt of'the United States for'its injunction to stay the sale. ordered
i% the state' court of the mortgagred premises; 'sttting forth, 'as
grounds therefor. the same facts, substantially, as subseqiiently again
2n2

294

UfPREM.F COURT.
Ex parte Ch.risty.

set forth by Christy, his assignee, in his petitions aforesaid. After
full hearing of said bill, the court refused the injunction; and thereafter the premises seized were duly. sold,"-with every legal requisite
and formality, in execution of the previous orders of the state court,
and the City Bank became the purchasers.
* Fifth.. That the~said bank has, in no wise, presented or proved its
claim against Walden, in the bankrupt court, but pursued the said
mortgage claim adversely in the -state court, relying on its lien by
the state-law, and the proviso in the*bankrupt act, saving such lien
from its operation.
Sixth. That the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand dollars in
value.
Seventh. That the said Christy, assignee, &c., knowing all the
premises, but contriving to impair the lien of the bank by the mort-gages aforesaid, contrary to the saving clause of the bankrupt act, is
en epvouring, by his petition and supplemental petition, to subject
all the previous proceedings of the state court upon the mortgages to
review and revision in'the District Court of the United States,.by its
summary process in binkruptcy. And the said Clisty and Walden, and the Hon. Theodore H. McCaleb, judge of the said District
Court of the United States, have wrongfully -and vekatiously forced
the said ban-.to appear in said coart i upon its summary process, toanswer said Christys petition. And though the bank has objected,
by plea, to.the summary jurisdiction of the court over the matters
aoresaid, yet the cou; aderes-hath overruled the plea-and persifs, by its summary process, to proceed with the cause, to the embarrassmeit of the bank, 4rid to the deprivation of all redress by
appeal.
t t
In addition to the foregoing statement filed by the counsel in. sup.
port of the motion for a prohibition, it may be proper to state that,
On thi 8th of October, 1842, Christy filed the petition mentioned
in the seventh proposition just quoted.. It-recited that Walden,. the
.bankrupt; was, 'at the time of filing his schedule and surrender,
the owner of i large amount of real estate; that the bank claimed to
have a mortgage upon it; that the bank caused it to be sold and possession delivered; that the sale wasivoid, because the application of
Walaen operates as a stay of proceeding; that the property was offered for sale, in block, though composed of twenty different stores'
or buildings, and for 6@.sh; that the mortgage debt was~ not justly
due, but void on account of usury;' and. prayed that the sale might
be declared void, or if adjudged valid, that the amount thereod'should
be paid over to the petitioner, to be distributed aceording to law.
'On the 31sr of October, 1842, the bank filed a plea to the juris-diction of the court, with- other'matters in defence.
On the 17th of February, 1843, the questions raised by the answer-of the bank were Eidjournedto the Circuit Court of the United
States.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

295

Ex parte Christy.

At April term, 1843, the Circuit Court returned the following'
answers:"In answer to the questions adjourned into this court by the District Court for the said district, it is ordered that the following answers be certified to the District Court in bankruptcy, as the opinion
of the court thereupon:
"First. That the said District Court has, under the statute of
bankruptcy, full and ample jurisdiction of all questions arising under
the petition of William Christy, assignee of Walden, to try, adjudge,
decree, and determine the same between the parties thereto.
"Secondly. That the sale made of the mortgaged property, under
the seizure and sale ordered by the District Court of the state of
Louisiana, is void, and that the District Court of the United States,
should by its decree declare it void in the suit . and that said lastmentioned court has full power and authority to try and determine
the validity of said mortgages, and if proved upon the trial v6id
according to the laws of Louisiana, to make a decree accordingly,
and order a sale of the property therein contained for the benefit of
the several creditors of the bankrupt; but if upon proof said mortgages shall be sustained and adjudged valid, a decree should be
rendered in favour of the mortgagees, condemning to sale all their
interests, rights, and title therein, and all the interest, right, and title
of the bankrupt and all the general creditors, in the hands of the
assignee, and the rights and title of the assignee also;. and by the order
of sale the marshal be directed to pay over to the mortgagees, after
deducting the per cent. for his commissions and all the legal costs
of the suit, the amount of their claim, if the proceeds of the sale
amount to so much, and the balance, if any, to pay over to th
assignee ; and that by such decree the assignee be ordered to make
proper title and conveyance to the purchaser or purchasers, upon
the full payment of the purchase money and a reasonable rompensation to the assignee for making such conveyance, to be determined
and settled by the judge of the District Court, should the purchaser
or purchasers and the assignee' disagree as to the amount.
"1Thirdly. The second and alternative prayer in the petition of
the assignee i asking the payment to.him of the whole amount of the
proceeds of the former sale of the mortgaged property, being inconsistent with the opinion of the court in the second point, will therefore be disregarded on the trial by the District Court.
"Associate Justice of the Supreme Caurt U. S"

Afteirwards, in 1843, an amended petition was filed by Christy,
amongst
other things, that the bank claimed to be a creditor
alleging,
of Walden,
and "in
that capacity had become. a party to the said
proceedings in bankruptcy," &c.' &c.
In December, 1843, the bank prayed oyer of the time, place,

296

SUPREME COURT
Ex parte Christy.

manner, and form, where, how, and when it became a party to the
proceedings in bankruptcy.
The court having granted the prayer for oyer, Christy, on the
23d of January, 1844, filed the following:
"That the said City Bank became parties to the proceedings in
bankruptcy of the said Walden, first, by the operation of law, they
being at the time of his bankruptcy mortgage creditors of the si
Walden, and placed upon his schedule as such; second, by their
own act, having filed a petition in this honrourable court on the 5th
September, 1842, praying that the deman4 of the assignee ,for the
postponement of the sale ef certain properties be disregarded, that
their privileges be recognised, and-that said properties be sold under
an order of this court for cash; third, that-an attempt was made by
the said bank to withdraw said petition and prayer of 5th September,
1842, but a discontinuance of the same was opposed by M. W.
Hoffman and L. C. Duncan, creditors of said bankrupt, and parties
interested, by reason of which said opposition the legal effects of
said application, made-by the City Bank as aforesaid, to this honourable court remain in full force.
"In consideration of all which and the documents herewith filed,
your petitioner prays, that said City Bank be compelled to answer
to the merits of the original and supplemental petition in this case
filed, without further delay."
On the 10th of February, 1844, the bank filed its answer, denying
that it had ever proved its debt, or otherwise subjected itself in any
manner to the summary jurisdiction of the District Court sitting as
a court of. bankruptcy; but, on the contrary, that it had prosecuted
its remedy in the state courts of Louisiana, .and adding the following:
"And so these respondents and defendants say and iiisist, that this
honourable court, sitting as a bankrupt, court, and holding
summary
of said
jurisdiction in matters of bankruptcy under and by virtue
act, ought not to have and to. take cognisance of the seve'ral matters
and things in the said petiti6n and supplemental'petition contained:
forasmuch as all jurisdiction over the same'is by law vested in and
does of right belong to the Circuit Court of the United States for theeastern district of Louisiana, holding jurisdicti6n in equity, and proceeding according to the principles and forms of courts of chancery
as prescribed by law and by rules and orders of the Supreme Court
of the United States, or to the District Court of the United States for
the said district, proceeding in the same manner, and vested with
concurrent jurisdiction over all suits at law or in equity which may
be brought by the assigneefof any bankrupt against any person
claiming an adverse interest; which said courts are- competent to
enfertain the suit of the petitioner and grant him the relief of prayer
for, if by law he is entitled to the same, and not this court; and
forasmuch as this honourable court, sitting as a bankrupt court, and
deciding in a summary manner in matters of bankruptcy, is -wholly.

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

297

Ex parte Christy.
without jurisdiction in the premises, these respondents and deferidants submit to the judgment of this honourable court, -whether they
shall be held to make any further or other answer to the several
matters and things in the said petition and supplemental petition
contained, and pray to be hence dismissed, -with their reasonable
costs, 8wcd
Au agreement of counsel was filed in the court below relative to
the petition of the bank and its discontinuance spoken of in the
oyer of Christy, as above set. forth. The agreement stated that
the discontinuance was ordered in open cokirt by the cciingel of
the bank, and the proceedings of the court showed that a rule to
show cause why the discontinuance should not be set dside was
dismissed.
This was the position of the case in the court below.
The motion for a prohibition was sustained by Wilde and Henderson, and opposed by CrUttenden. The.Reporter has no notes of the
arguments of Henderson and, rCtnden, and from that of Witde only
extracts can be-given.
Wilde referred to the seven facts stated in the beginning of this
report,*and then said, the questions of law insisted on by the suggestion are,
1. That the Bankrupt Act contemplates two kinds of jurisdiction:
one over parties claiming under the bankruptcy, the other over pdrties claiming~ "dversely to it; the one summary, the other formal
the one exclusive in the District CourV exercising summary jurisdiction in matters of bankruptcy, without.appeal, as defined by section
6th; the other a concurrent jurisdiction innot
both
District and
Circuit
but formal,
summary,
whihanisadverse
of section
Courts
for or against
parties 8th,
claiming
interest, according
the provisins
to
chancery or
to be exercised according to the rules -and forms of
or writ
appeal
by
court
this
.in
review
to
common law, and subject
laws heretofore pas ed
the
of
provisions
general
the
of error under
appeals.
regulating wrios of error and
summary
2. That the rule of said bankrupt court" regulating its
assumed
is
Christy
by
proceeding
this
which
of
process, in pursuance
are n violaton of the Bankrupt
entertain~d,,
to be instituted and
exhibited.
Act-which rules are herewith
the DisThe reasons why this court should interpose to restrain
two:
are
matter
the
in
proceedings
further
from
trict Court
as in a
1. Because said court, proceeding summarily on petition,
jurisdiction 6f
and
cogisance
no'lawful
ha:
bankruptcy,
of
matter
decide,
the matter.
said court so to proceed and
said
2. Because by permitting
permit
to
be
would
le,)
would
this
of
from which decision no aipeal
powers
impair the legitimate
istrict and inferior court to
VoL. I.f-38

298

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

court in its appellate jurisdiction, -and to deprive the bank of its
right to invoke the supervisory powers of this court by appeal.
After stating the general principles on which prohibitions issue,
'which were cases..where an appeal does not lie, and. citing a number of authorities, Mr. Wade continuedFor the present, then, we are to consider whether the District
Court, sitting as a bankrupt court of exclusive and summary jurisdiction of all matters arising under the bankruptcy, and deciding
without appeal, has rightful and lawful cognisance of the-matters it
is proceeding to investigate and adjudicate upon in this case.
Here are lawful mortgages, made and recorded according to the
laws of Louisiana, bearng date three years'before petition of the
mortgagor to be declared a voluntary bankrupt.
Here is a mortgagee who has not proved his debt under the bankruptcy, but has rested on this state lien;. prosecuting that lien to
judgruent of foreclosue upon his said mortgages in the state court,
before the petition in bankruptcy.
Here is an order of seizure and sale, and an actual levy on the
the
mortgagor
for thebybenefit
of theone
Bankrupt
mortgaged
premises
the sheriff
month Act.
before the petition -f
Under
levy orafter
seizure
the
mortgagee
proceeded to sell the
mortgagedthis
premises,
appraisement, advertisement,
and all other
legal
pre-requisites,ininthe
several
distinctand
lots,appraisement,
according to their separate enumeration,
mortgages
and in as
minute divisions as the nature of the property would admit or the
the substantial question before this court is,"whether he
lawAnd
allow.
whohas never proved his debt, rievercome in under the bankruptcy,
can
be
draged
into
the
District Court,
sittingappeal;
as a bankrupt court, and
exercising summary jurisdiction,
without
writ of seizure
and sale annulled, the judgment of the state court his
vacated,th saoth
set aside, and his mortgages declared null and void,
though the
Supreme
Court
of
the
state
have
declared would
them good and valid.
The mere statement Qf such
a question
to be enough
to ecide it; but its very simplicity leads to the seem
suspicion of error,
andtherefore we will yerifyit step by step.
First then, the proceedings in bankruptcy,-of
we produce
an authenticated copy, and the clerk's certificate,which
show exclusively
that the City
Bank
has never proved&c,
its in
debt
transcript
against Walden, See
of the
petition,.schedule,
bankruptcy-clerk's
certificate,
last itpage.
We hold
to be dear lawnthat a party holding a mortgage catnot be compelled to prove his debt, or come in under
sion; and we hold that unless he .desso, the District the commisa Court, xercising'the powers of a bankrupt court, and proceeding
summarily
without appeal has no juipisdiction over him.
"If a creditor has a security or lien, he is not comellable
to

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

299

Ex parte Cristy.

come in under the commission; he may elect to'stand out, and' rely
on his security or lien."
" But if he does prove, he relinquishes his security for the benefit
of all." Cullen on Bankruptcy,' 145, 149.
If this be the case in England, :'fortiori, it is so under our late
bankrupt act, which contains a clause saving state liens. Section
2, p. 16, Bankrupt Act-:"Nothing in this act-contained shall be construed to annul, destroy, or impair any-liens, mortgages, or other securities or properties, real or personal, which may be valid by the laws of the states
respectively."
In the decisions under this lawalthough there has been a diversity of opinion as to what constituted a lien, there has been none
that a mortgage was one.
There has been no diversity of opinion on the point whether a
mortgaged creditor could be compelled to prove or not.
There has been some difference of opinion how, and in what
court, and by what process or form of proceeding, the state lien is
to be' saved; but all agree that saved it must be.
On ,the score of authority, it cannot be expected we should do
more than produce the decisions of circuit or district judges. These
questions have not yet been adjudicated in this court.
We rely on the following cases, decided by judges of this court
on their circuits, or by district judges, respectable for learning and
ability.
The decision of Mr. Justice Baldwin in the matter of Kerlin, a
bankrupt, reported in the United States Gazette, of Philadelphia, of
26th October, 1843.
The decision of Mr. Justice Story, in the case of Mitchell, asigee of Roper, v. Winslow and others, in the Circuit Court of
lvaine, reported in the Law Reporter of Boston, for December;
1843, pp. 347, 360.
Mr. Justice McLean's decision in the case of N. C. McLeahn,
assignee in bankruptcy; v. The Lafayette Bank, J. S. Buckingham
and others; to be found in the Western Law Journal for October,
1843, p. 15.
Mr. Justice McLean's decision in the case of N. C. McLean,
assignee, v. James F. Meline; Western Law Journal for November;1843, p. 51.
Mr. Justice Story's decision in the case of Muggridge, 5 Law
Rep. 357; in Ex pare Cook, 5 Law Rep. 444; Ex partb Newall,
5 Law Rep. 308; tDutton v. Freeman, 5 Law Rep. 452.
Mr. Justice Thompson's decision in Houghton v. Eustis, 5 Law
Rep. 506.
udge Prentiss's (of Vermont) opinion in Ex parte Spear, 5 Law
Rep. 399; and Ex parte Comstook, 5 Law Rep. 165.

300

SUPREME COURT
Er parte Christy.

-

Judge Conkling's (of New York) opinion in Ex parte Allen,
5 Law Rep. 368.
Judge Monroe's (of Kentucky) opinion in Niles's Register, 5th
'November, 1842 ; and those of Irwin, Randall, and Gilchrjst, ib.
The~e 'cases, it is humbly submitted, establish the doctrine for
which the defendants. contend, namely: that the state lien in this
case was properly and rightfully enforced under the state law and
process. Penn. Law journal for November, 1842, p. 302, Ex parte
Dudley, Judge Randall and the late Judge Baldwin's 'decisions;
Penn. Law Journal, April, 1844, p. 246, I! trge v. Bosler, District
Court of Philadelphia; Law Reporter for October, 1844, p. 281,
Judge Conkling's decision 6n Briggs v. Stephens, (proving surrenders
lien;) Western Law Journal, April, 1844, Judge McLean's decision
in McLean.v. Rockey, p. 3 02; Law Reporter, July, 1844, Mr. Justice
Story's decision in Bellows and Peck, United States Circuit Court
of New Hampshire, pp. 125, 127; Law Re orter, June, 1844, Superior Court of New Hampshire, Kitteridge v. Warren, p. 87; Penn.
Law Journal, October 15th, 1842, p. 223, Judge Randall's decision
(distress;) Penn. Law Journal, October 15, 1842, p. 245, Judgd
Randall, (proof vithdrawn;) Ex parte Lafeley, Report of Kitteridge
& Emerson, Su,.. Court, New Hampshire.
The decision of Judge Gilchrist in the case of McDowall's asslgnee v. Planters' and Mechanics' Bank; of which an authenticated
copy is prbdubed.
But this court very properly holds itself entirely uncommitted by
Circuit Court decisions. They are merely cases at nisi prius, and
th matters there determined are as open to discussion as ever.
(Mr. Wilde then went on to argue that a mortgaged creditor could
not be compelled to prove his debt, and that if he did so, he would
only come in for a share of the assets pro rata;and then investigated
the jurisdiction of the District and Circuit Courts in bankruptcy,
and the revisory powers of this court by appeal or prohibition, as
follows:)
In considering the authority of the' District Court ekercising summary jurisdiction in cases' of bankruptcy, it will be most convenient
and perspicuous to examineFirst. Its eXclusive jurisdiction.
Secondly. Its jurisdiction concurrently with the Circuit Court.
Its exclusive jurisdiction is granted by the 6th section, 'whioh is
as follows:(Mr. Wilde -here quoted it at length.)
To obtain a distinct idea of the extent and boundaries of the
jurisdiction thus granted, it is requisite to examine them under three
.different aspects:
First. As to the persons over whom-that'is, for or'againstwhom
-jurisdiction is given.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

301

Ex parte Christy.

Secondly. As to the objects, rights, or claims, subjected to such
jurisdiction.
Thirdly, As to the modes and forms of proceeding.
A careful analysis of this section will showFirst, as to persons:
That the. jurisdiction granted extendsTo the. bankrupt;
To the creditors claiming any debt under the bankruptcy;
To the assignde, whether in office or removed.
These parties and each of them are authorized to sue each other
in the District Court, and to litiate their respective claims or pretensions there. But the court will remark, there is no jurisdiction
whatever granted by this section, so far as persons are concerned,
to a creditor who does not claim under the bankruptcy. No jurisdiction over such a creditor is granted: none is given for hm or
against him. This distinction has always been recognised by the
courts of the United States wherever the point has been brought to
their attention. Briggs v. Stephens, Law Rep., Oct. 1844, p. 282,
per Conkling, J.; Ex parte Dddley, Penn. Law Journal, Nov. 1.9,
1842, pp. 320;' 321, tier Justice Baldwin; Assignees of McDowall
v. Pl nters' and Mechanics' Bank, per Judge Gilchrist.
Secondly. As to objects, rights, claims, and controversies, subjected to the summary jurisdiction .of the District Court sitting in
bankruptcy.
The jurisdiction granted by this section extendsTo all controversies between the bankrupt and any creditor
claiming any debt or demand under.the bankruptcy;
To all controversies between such creditor and the assignee of
the estate ;
To all controversies between the assignee and the bankrupt; andTo all acts, matters, and things, to be done under and by virtue
of the bankruptcy.
But your honours will observe, ihat under this section, so far as
objects, rights, claims, or controversies are concerned, no jurisdiction is gronted in controversies between the assignee and a creditor
not claiming under the bankruptcy, but claifming adversely to it.
No jurisdiction is ganted in controversies between such a creditor
and other creditors chiming under the bankruptcy.
None in cases between a creditor claiming adversely to the bankruptcy and the banliript himself.
None -where the acts, matters, and things are not done, or be
done under and in virttt6 of the bankruptcy, but before it, independent of it, and adversely.tp .t.
So far, then, as the objects.of the District Court's summary jurisdiction in bankruptcy are concerned, no- such jurisdiction is granted
by this section over the rights or demands of a creditor who claims
adversely to the bankruptcy, xand not under it.
2C

802

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

In relation to such a creditor, so claiming such rights, he is not
authorized to sue in that court either the assignee or the bankrupt,
or the creditors claiming under the bankruptcy; neither, in regard
to such a creditor and- such rights, is the assignee or the bankrupt,
or the other creditors claiming under the bankruptcy, empowered to
sue him there.
Thirdly. In reference to the modes and forms of proceeding, it
is indisputable that in the District Court, sitting as a bankrupt court,
and holding jurisdiction in bankruptey under the 6th and .7th sec.
tions,' the proceedings are summary, and in general without appeal.
But however clearly it may appear that by the letter of the 6th,
section no.such jurisdiction is granted for, against, or over a creditor
claiming adversely to the bankruptcy, it may be said cognisance, of
such claims somewhere is indispensable to the full execution of a
uniform system, and therefore, ex necessitate, it must be vested in
some court of the United States.
He who objects to the jurisdiction of a court (it will be said) must
show that somne other court has jurisdiction. We assume that obligation and this brings us to a like analysis of the 8th section.
Thatsection is as follows:
"Sect. 8. And be it further enacted, That the Circuit Court
within and for the district where the',decree of bankruptcy is
passed, -shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the District Court
of the same district of all suits at law and in equity, which may
and shall be brought by any assig'nee of the bankrupt against any
person or persons claiming an a'verse interest, or by such person
against such assignee, touching any property or rights of property
"a said bankrupt transferable to, or vested in, such assignee; and
to suit at law or in equity shall -in any case be maintainable by or
against such assignee,. or by or against any person claiming an dd•-verse interest, touching the property and rights of property aforesaid, in any court whatsoever, unless the same shall be brought
within two years after the declaration and decree of bankruptcy, or
after the cause of'suit shall first have accrued."
With respect to the jurisdiction granted by this section, the court
will observe it is- concurrent in he District and Circuit Courts.
But as some compleifty and confusion are likely to arise in considering the variety of jurisdictions possessed by the same tribunal,
though sitting on' different'sides, and proceeding by different forms,
we will analyze this section as to the jurisdiction thereby granted
to. the Circuit Courts, with reference to the persons for or against
whom it is granted, the subject-matters'over which it is extended,
an;d the modes and fonrms of proceeding required to be adopted.
As soon as we shall have ascertained what the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court is, under the 8th section, it will be easy to apply it to
the District Court, for as ,the two courts under the 8th section have
concurrent jurisdiction, it follows that. whatever jurisdiction is

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

303

Ex parte Christy..
ranted by that section to the one is granted to the other. When the
Circuit Court's jurisdiction under it is known, the District Court's
jurisdiction under it is known to be the same, and we thus arrive
at a clear and precise conception of the two district jurisdictions,
which we allege exist in the District Court, namely:
1. Iti summary jurisdiction as to parties claiming under the bankruptcy.
2. Its jurisdiction as a court of law and equity, for or agaihs
parties claiming adversely to the bankruptcy; a jurisdiction not summary, but to be exercised according to the usual modes nd forms
of courts of chancery or common law, according as the nature of
the case made, or the relief sought, belongs to the one or the other
forum.
Let us examine, then, the jurisdiction granfed by the 8th-section
to the Circuit Court.
1. It extends to all suits at law or in equity brought by an assignee against any person claiming an adverse interest.
2. To all suits at law or in equity by such person, against such
assignee, touching any property or rights of the bankrupt.
Thus we see that 'the very jurisdiction over persons claiming an
adverse interest and rights, not arising under the bankruptcy, but
in opposition to it, Which the 6th section did Iot grant to the District Court exercising summary jurisdiction, has been granted to
the Circuit Court by the 8th section, as a court of common.law and
equity, proceeding according to its ordinary jurisdiction in such
suits, and according to the usual modes and forms of proceeding in
chancery, where a.chancery remedy is sought, and of common law,
where a common law remedy is adequate.
The District Court, then, as a court of summary jurisdiction, has
no cognisance of cases for or against persons claiming an adverse
interest, but the Circuit Court has ; and the Circuit Court, as to such
cases, proceeds not summarily, but according to the usual modes
and forms of courts of common law or chancery.
Now the jurisdiction granted to the District Court by the 8th
section is concurrent With that given to the Circuit Court by the
8th section-that is to say, it is neither more nor less, but precisely
the same ; to be exercised over the sameparties, in the same way,
and by the same rules and forms of proeeding.
There are then two 'distinct jurisdictions given to the District
Courts; as. we undertook to prove.
The one a summary jurisdiction, to -be. exercised over all claiming under the bankruptcy, and this jurisdiction is exclusive. The
other a formial jurisdiction, coextensive with that. given to the Circuit Court, for and against persons claiming adversely to thebankruptcy, which jurisdiction is not summary, but to be exercised
according to the usual forms of common law or chancery.
The summary jurisdiction pf the Bnkrupt Court may be admit-

804

OU.PREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

ted- for the purposes of this argument, to be exclusive and without
appeal.
But the jurisdiction: granted to the Circuit 'Court over persons
claiming an .adverse interest, is not sumniary, but is the ordinary
jurisdiction of that court as. a court of common law and chancery,
extended over a new -class of. cases,' and -a new description of suitors, it is true,-but to. be exercised according to long-established
forms; .and as the only jurisdictiQn possessed by the District Court
over persons, not parties to the bankruptcy, but claiming adversely
to it,'is preaisely the same as that giveh by-the 8th section to the
Circfiit Court, it follows that, when the District Court fakes cognisance of"that class of cases, its jurisdiction is to' be exercised according to the usual.forms of chancery and common law, by bill or
suit, precisely as the Circuit Court would exercise it.
The Circuit Court in such cases, cannot decide summarily, and
asthe juisdiction of -the District Court is -the saiae, and no more,
as tb that description of'persons- and controversies, the District
Court cannot decide summarily.
. T6 maintain the opposite doctrine, is to assert that a concurrent
"jurisdition may be different, and greater in the. one court than the
othdr, and that the formal and sumniary jurisdictions of a court may
be adopted and intermingled at its pleasure. It is indisputable,
and conviction results from a mere inspection of the proceedings,
that William Christy, the assignee, is proceeding in the District
Court, sittin 'inbankruptcy, and according -to the course of its
summary jxirisdiction as a bankrupt court.
The petition is so addressed, [p. 7 of the printed papers attached
to the suggestion.]- All the pleadings and orders in the cause'are
uniformly so entitled. They are "ini the United States District
Court , sitting in banlkrptcy," pp. 7, 12, 14, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
and'28.
Now, where the relief sought-belongs to the chancery jurisdiction,
itmust be songht in Louisiana, as wl as elsewhere, in the courts
of-the United States, according to the course and forms of chancery
practice. - McCullum v. Eager, .2Howard, 63.
The pr6ceeding- of the assignee is by petition, not by bill in
chancery.
The- motive of his so proceeding is sufficiently obvious. If he
can. maintain the jurisdiction of the District Court, exeyreing summary jurisdiction in bankru tcy, he cuts off all'appeal. He has
succeeded.in persuading the DIisrict Couit,- that the- case comes
under, and belongs to its summary cognisanee. A plea to the
jurisdition upon the very ground-we are arguing, has been submitted to that court and overruled. Vide the plea to the jurisdiction,.p. 25, 26., of the -printed- record annexed to the suggestion,
and order overruling-it, p. 26.

-

-

In 6e, iherefore, it 'is
manifest that William Christy, the assignee,

JANUARY TERM, IM4.

3M ,

Ex parte Christy.

is proceeding in the-bankrupt court, according to the course of its
summary jurisdiction.
The plea so expressly alleges, pp. 25, 26.
By demurring ore tenus to the plea, which he is held to have
done, by praying judgment of the court upon it, although no formal
demurrer is allowed- by the law or practice of Louisiana,.he admits
the fact.
And the court, by overruling the plea; decide, thfft he is proceeding in the court of bankruptcy, according to the course of its
summary jurisdiction, but that he is rightfully and lawfully proceeding there.
This is the precise point we have attempted to disprove, and
upon which we seek the judgment of this court, in the form of an
order for a prohibition.
Thus, then, we think we have sustained the first branch of our argument, namely, that the District Court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana is. proceeding in the. case of William
Christj, assignee, against the City Bank of New Orleans, without
jurisdiction, and contrary to law, and in such manner as to deprive
the City Bank of an important legal right.
This view is sustained by the decision of the late Mr. Justice
Baldwin, Ex parte Dudley, Penn. Law Jour., Novr. 19,1842, p. 297;
by :Briggs v. Stephens, per Conkling, J., Law Reporter, Oct. 1844,
p. 282.
The decision of Mr. Justice Baldwin, in the matter of John Kerlin, reported for the United States Gazette, 26 October, 1843.
The dissenting opinion of Judge Bullard, in the case of The State
v. Rosanda, p. 23 of the Printed Documents, in which it is understood Chief Justice Martin agrees, although he* did not sit in the
cause; and the dissenting opinion of the same judge in Bank's case,
p. 7 of the same documents.
Assuming, therefore, that the true jurisdiction,'in a case like the
present, is not in the District Court proceeding summarily by petition and order,'but in the United States Circuit Court for the eastern
district of Lduisiana sitting in chancery, or Ihe District Court of that
district having concurrent, chancery jurisdiction, ii cases for or
against a creditor claiming adversely, under and by virtue of the
8th section.of the. bankrupt act, in which suit the proceeding must
be by bill and answer, according to the usual chancery rules and
forms.
We are next to show that in such a case an appeal would lie.
(Mr. Wilde went'on to maintain this proposition,. citing many authorities.)
We regard it, then, as established, that from the summary jurisdiction of the bankrupt court no appeal lies.
That from the chancery jurisdiction, granted by the 8th section
concurrently to the Circuit and District Courts, an appeal does lie.
VOL. IHI.-39
2c2

306

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

'That the summary jurisdiction does not extend to a party claiming
adversely.
That the chancery does.
And that Christy, in resorting to the summary jurisdiction, does
so because he. has an evident interest to deprive the bank of the right
of appeal i ard to oust this court of its ultimate appellate jurisdiction.
All this may be true, and yet we may have no redress.
Let us now inquire if this court be competent to grant us any remedy, and whether we have sought the propef one.
We have seen, in the early part of this argument, from the English authorities, that in the King's Bench this would be clearly a case
for a pr.ohibition.
But this court,. it has already been admitted, does not possess, in
such cases, an authority ccoextensive wth that of the ing's Bench.
showWe are to
1st. That the exercise of such an authority is delegated to it by
the Constitution and laws of the United States; and'
2d. That its exercise is necessary to protect its appellate iurisdiction.
First, then:
Has the Supreme Court power to issue writs of prohibition to the
lower courts of the United States generally, wherever they exceed
their jurisdiction?
The 13th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Laws U. S. 59,
gves this court power to issue writs .of prohibition to the District
rts, proceeding as courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
mid writs of mandamus in cases warranted by law, to any courts, or
persons holding. offi6e under the United States. "
The 14th sectiQn gives power'to issue writs of scirefaci s, habeas
corpus, and all other writs not specially, provided for by statute, and
which may be necessary for the exercise of their jurisdiction.
Now the writ of prohibifion, in civil cases of common law and
equity jurisdiction, is'a writ not specially provided for by statute;
and we undertake ,to. show hereafter that it is necessary for'the exercise of the Supreme Court's appellate powers.
The first objection we Taust meet is, that express authority being
given to issue prohibitions in admira and maritime bases, it must
be presumed there is no such authdrilty in any other cases: " eapressio
Uris est exclusio alterius."

But besides the argument already -used in antciliation, that the
writ in common law cases is not speci'ally provided for by statute,
and therefore within the gefieral powerq granited by the 14th section,
it may be remarked:That it would be singular, indeed, if it did not lie by our law, in
all that large class of. cases in wich it does lie by the law of England, and vice versa, that in the only case where it has been sometiies held not t9 lie by the law of England,- it does lie 4y. Qur law.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

'07

Ex parte Christy.

Such an anomaly would be contrary to the spirit of our whole leslation, whose tendency is to extend justice; not to barricade jurisitions.
But why, then, was the express grant of power made to issue prohibitions in admiralty cases? Considered historically, the answer is
obvious: out of abundant caution.
At -that period the jealcusy of a part, and a large part, of the people towards the courts of the United States, especially those not proceeding according to the course of the.common law,. was excessive.
The amendments made to the Constitution, and the debates of the
time, are conclusive proofs of the fact.
The decisions. of Lord Mahsfield in Lecaux v. Eden, and Lindo v.
Rodney, were made in 1781 and 178.2, and in 1789 must have been
"
well known in the United. States.
They declared that a writ of prohibition did not lie from the courts
of co tmon law to a court of exclusive jurisdictioi--as the Court of
Prize-although it was alleged the goods belonged to a British subject, and were seized. on land.
This was certainly quite enough to alarm a sensitive jealousy;
and though the enactment may not have covered the whole ground
of apprehension, the fair inference under all the circumstances is,
that the clause in our act was adopted to extend the remedy, by
prohibition, to cases which it was supposed itcould not reach by
the common law-to enlarge the remedy, not tb contract it.
The general power to issue all other writs necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction', is broad enough to.cover prohibitions, when
used as an appellate or revisory process.
(Mr. Wilde theh went on to review and criticise the cases of Marbury v. Madison, Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Peters,
464;'Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 397; hnd contended that the
authority to issue a writ of prohibition rested upon the same ground
as writs of mandahnus and procedendo, viz., the necessity of protecting the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.)
If our distinction between the summary bankrupt jurisdiction and
the formal chancery jurisdiction of the Distribt Court be well taken,
it follows, that when the'district judge, sitting in the summary c6urt
of bankruptcy, usurps the authority of the formal chancery courf, and
subjects to the power persons and things belonging to the cognisbncee
of the latter, he commits an excess ofjurisdiction.
If the associate justice presiding in the Circuit Court of that district, sustains the District Court in that excess, and says, as he is sup.:
posed to have done, that it is pr6ceeding regularly and lawfully
when in truth its proceedings arc irregular and unlawful, then either
this court must have power to issuc a prohibition, or its authority to
revise the proceedings of inferior .tribunals, to confine them within
the limits of their jurisdiction, and to protect their own, is so far
completely nullified.

808

SUPREME COURT.
EZ parte Christy.

If the application fof a prohibition, therefore, must first be made
to the Circuit Court, and when refused there cannot be brought here
by appeal, or writ of error, it follows,, that-although this court would
have ultimate appellate jurisdiction of this cause, if regularly brought
and prosecuted according to law, on the chancery side of that court,
yet, if irregularly and unlawfully prosecuted on the bankrupt side,
and-the district judge and circuit judge erroneously sustain it there,
we have no-redress, and this tribunal is impotent to preserve its own
ultimate appellate jurisdiction. In the language of Chief Justice
Marshall, "It can neither revise the judgment of the inferior court
nor suspend its proceedings." 6 Wheat. 397.
For the. general practice In p rbhibition, we refer the court to
Croucher v. Collins, -1 Saund. 136, 140, notes 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5;
2 Chitty's General Practice, 355; 3 Black. Com. 355.; 2 Sell. Pract.
425.. Cases in Prohibition: 14 Petersdorf Abi. verbo Prohibition;
2 Salk. 547;, 3 Mod. 244; 6 Mod. 79; 11 Mod. 30. Leading
Cases: Leman v. Goulty, 3 Term R. 3; Dutens v. Robson, 1 11.
Black. 100; 2 H. Black. 100, 107; Lecaux v. Eden, Douglass, 594;
Lindb v. Rodney, Ibid. 613. Pleadings and Forms: 6 Wentworthls
Pleadings, 242, 304, 1 Saund. 136, 142.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of-the court.
This is the case of an application on behalf of the City Bank of
New Orleans to this court for a prohibition to be issued to the District Court of the United States for the district of Louisiana, to prohibit it from further proceedings in a certain case in bankruptcy
pending in the said court upon the petition of William Chrity, -as-'
signee of Daniel T. Walden, a bankrupt, The suggestions for the
writ state at klrge the whole proceedings before the District Court,
and contain allegations of iom other facts, which either do. hot appear at all upon the face of those proceedings, or qualify or contradict some of the statements contained therein. So far as respects
these allegations of facts, not so found in the proceedings of the Disirict Court, we are not uponthe present occasion at liberty to entertain
any consideration thereof for the purpose of examination or decision,
as it would be an exercise of original jurisdiction on the part of .this
court"not, confided to us by law. The application for the prohibition is made upon the ground that the District Court has transcended
its' jurisdiction in entertaining those proceedings; and whether it
has or not must depend, not upon facts stated dehors .the record,
but. upon those stated in the record, upon ivhieh the District Court
.was called to act, and by which alone it could regulate'its judgment.Other ifatters, whether going to oust the jurisdiction of the couft, or
the'case of the plaintiff, constitute
to establish the want of-merits in.
properly'a defence -to- the suit, to be p.ropounded for the consideration of he District Court by suitable pleadings, supported by suit-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

8ow9

Ex parte Chrisly.

able proofs, and cannot be'admitted here to displace the right oT the
District Court to, entertain the suit.
Let us then see what is the nature of the case originally presented
-to the District Court. .It is. founded upon a petition of William
.Christy, as assignee, of-Daniel-T. Walden, a bankrupt, in -vhich he
states, :tht the bankrupt, at -the time -of his filing his schedule ofproperty and surrendering it to his. creditors; was in possession. of a
f amount of realestate, described-in the -petition, situate h -the
city of New Orleans, which 'was to be. administered and disposed
of in bankruptcy; the bankrupt having applied to th6 court for the
benefit of.the Bankrupt Act.' It further states, that the -City B6lk
of -New Qrleans, laiming to be a creditor of-the bankrupt and to
have a mortgage on the aforesaid property, -the iaidjcorporation bding a schedule creditor, being- a.'arty to the,proceedings in bankruptcy, ald being fully aware 'of the pendency'of, the same proceedings, did roceed to the seizure of the said property, and did
pposechte the Baid seizar& to a-sale of the same property, the same"
being.put up and offered fur sale at public au~tion'by the sheriff of'
the state District. Court, or% or about the 27th.of June, 1842 -' and
it was by.the said sheriff declared to.be struck off to the-.s.id City
Bank, ndtwitbstanding the reionstrances of the said assignee and
,his demands fo have the same d livered up, to him for the benefit"
of all the creditors of the .bankrupt. -It further aver that th -sime
property was illegally -offered for sale, and that-it is itself -anullity,
andf conferred no"title on.the said.City Bank; 'that the' sale was a
fraud upon the Bankrupt Act;that the City Bank attempted thereby
to obtain an illegal prefetence and priority dyer -the other creditorsof the bankrupt, and that theproperty was'sold at tio-hirds only
of its estimated value; that the City Bank- had never delegated to.
any person the'authority' to bid off the same to the said bank at the.
sale; and that -the-previous formalities required by law for the sale
were not compilied with, and -that the property had been Mnegall*
advertised and -ipprai sed. Itfurther avers, that the bankrupt, . long
prior to his bankruptcy, was contestingthe debt clained by the said
bank; and "contefiding that the said debt was not owing by him,
and the said'property was--not bound thereby. Itfurther avers, thaai
the said debt is void for usury on the part of the said bank in makifig the loan, the same not having been made in money,-but that.it
was receiyed as at par in bonds of the Municipality No. 2, which
wgre then at depreciatibnp at from .twenty to tweffty-ive per cent., at
their' real current market value; aild that the said -bankhad no authority to make the said contract or to accept or execute the iortgage given by the bankiupt, and that the' contract and mortgage are
utterly void, and should be -so decreed ky the court.
The prayer-of the petition i;, that the sherift"s adjudication of the
said property may be declared null and' void, and that the said property maybe adjudged to form part of the bankruptcy and given up.

810

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

to the petitioner to be by him administered and disposed of in the
said bankruptcy and according to law; that the said debt and, mortgage may be decreed to be null and void; and the estate of the said
bankrupt-discharged from the payment thereof; and that.if the said
adjudication shall be held valid, and the debt and mortouge main.tained by the court, then that the amount of the said ajudication
may be ordered to be paid over by the said bank to the petitioner,
to be accounted for and distributed by him according to law in the
course of the settlement of the bankrupt's estate, and for all general
and equitable relief in the premises.
To this petition the bank, by way of answer, pleaded various
pleas-(l) That' the District Court had no jurisdiction to decide
upon the premises in'the petition; (2) That the subject had already
become, resjudicatain two suits of D. T. Walden v. The City Bank,
and The City Bank v. D. T. Walden, ix. the state courts, and by
the District Court upon the petition~of D. T. Walden for an injunction, (not stating the nature or subject-matters of such suits, so as to
ascertain the. exact matters therein in controversy ;) (3)7 That the
petition contained inconsistent. demands, viz. : that the sale be set
aside, and that the proceeds of the sale be decreed to the petitioner;
and (4) That the mortgages to the bank were valid upon adequate
considerati6ns ; that the order of seizure and sale were duly granted,
and the sale duly made with all legal formalities, and the property
adjudicated to the bank; that the price of-the adjudication was retained by the bank to satisfy the said m ortgages, and that the bank
became and were the lawful owners of the property. The pleas
concluded with a denial of all the allegations in the petition, and
prayed that the issues in *fact inyoled m the petition be tried by a
jury. It is unnecessary for us to consider whether such a mode of
leading is allowable in any proceedings in equity, whether they are
mmary or plenary.
Upon this state of the pleadings the petitioner took exceptions to
the answer of the bank, and three questions were adjournd into the
Circuit Court for its decision. To these questions the Circuit Court
returned the following answers. (See them quoted in the statement
of the Reporter.)
Subsequently the assignee filed a supplemental or amended petition in the District Court, stating the matters contained in.the original
petition more fully and at large, wita more precise averments, and
mainly relying thereon; and alle'ging, among other hings,' that tht
City Bank beeanie a party to the proceedings in bankruptcy; and
by a subsequent amendment or supplemental allegation the assignee
avrerred, that the bank became a party to the proceedings in bankruptcy, first, mortgage
by operation
of law ofthe
'being at
the time of
bakruptcy
creditors,
thebank
bankrupt
and'named
in the
his
schedule
secondlr by
their
own act
filed a of
petition
in the
the assignee
the demand
thathaving
1842,
praying
in ;September,
court,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

311

Ex parte Christy.for the postponement of the sale of certain property be disregarded,
that their privileges be recognised, and that the property be sold
under an order of the court for cash; and that the court had since
refused leave to the bank to withdraw and discontinue the latter application and petition.
" To the supplemental and amended petition the bank put in an
answer or plea, denying the jurisdiction of the District Court to take
cognisance thereof, and insisting that they had never proved their
debt in bankruptcy, but had prosecuted their remedy in the state
courts against the mortgaged property, relying upon their mortgage
as a lien wholly exempted from the operation of the bankruptcy by
the express-terms of the Bankrupt Act; that the Distict Court, sitting as a bankrupt court, and holding summary jurisdiction in matters of bankruptcy under the act of Congress, ought not to take cognisance of the petition and sutipl'emental petition, inasmuch as all
jurisdiction ovdr the premises is by law veted in and of right belongs to the Circuit Court.of the United States for the eastern district
of Louisiana, holding jurisdiction in equity, and proceeding according to the forms and principle's of chancery as prescribed by law, or
to the District Court of the United States, proceeding iii the same
manner, and vested with concurrent jurisdiction over all suits at law
br. in 'equity brought by an assignee against any person claiming an
adverse interest, which courts are competent to entertain the suit of
the petitioner and grant him the relief prayed for, if by law entitled
to the sam4, and not this court; and the bank, therefore, prayed
the said petition and supplemental petition to be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
The District Court affirmed its jurisdiction, considering that the
matters of the plea had been already deteriined by the decree of
the Circuit Court already referred to, *and overruled the plea; and
ordered'the bank to answer'to the merits of the cause.
It is at this stage of the proceedings, so far as the fecord before
us enables us to, see, that the motion for the prohibition ha been
brought before this court for consideration and decision. Upon the
argument the principal questions which have been discussed are,
first, what is the true nature and extent of the jurisdiction of the
District Court sitting in bankruptcy? secondly, whether if the District Court has. exceeded its jurisdiction in the present case, a -wait
of prohibition lies from this court to that court to stay farther pro-

ceedings ? Each of these qliestions is of great importance, and the
first in an especial manner having given rise to some diversity of
opinion in the different circuitg, and lying at the foundati6n- of all
the proceeqdings in bankrtiptcy, is essential to be decided in order to
a safe and juist administratictn of justice unde~r the Bankrupt Act.
In the first place, then, as to the jurisdiction of the District Court
in matters of bankruptcy. Independent of the Bankrupt Act of
1841, chap. 9, the District Courts of the United States possess no

812

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

equity jurisdiction whatsoever.; for thepreiouslegislation of Congress
conferred no such authority upon them. Whatever jurisdictio,
therefore they now possess is-wholly -derived from that act. Aiid,
as we shall presently see, the jurisdiction thus conferred is to be-exercised by that court summarily in the nature of summary proceedings in -equity.
-The obvious design. of the Bankrupt Act of 1841, chap. 9, was
to' secure a prompt and effectual administration and settlement of
the estate of all bankrupts within a limited period. For this-purpose it was indispensable that an entire system adequate to that end
should be piovided by Congress, capable of being. worked out
through the -instrumentality of its -own- courts,-independently of all
aid and. assistance from any other 'tribunals over which. it could
exercise- no effectual control. The 10th section of the act declares.,
-that in order to ensure a spee'dy settlement and close of-the proceedings in each case in -bankruptcy, it shall be the duty of the
court to order and direct, a collection of the assets, and a reduction
of the same to money, and a distribution thereqf at s early peri'ds'
as practicable, consistently with a due regard to the interests of the.
creditors, and that such distribution of. the assets, so far as can be
done consistently with the rights of third persons having advese
claims thereto, shall be made as often as once in. six months; and
that all the proceedings in bankruptcy in each case, if. practicable,
shall be finally adjusted, s6ttled, and brought to a close by the court,
within two years after the "decree declaring the bankruptcy. ]3y
another section of the act, (§ 3,) the assignee is vested with all -the
rights, titles, powers, and authoities, -to sell, manage,and dispose
0 the estate and property of the bankrupt,-of every name and
-nature, and to sue for and defend the same, subject to -the -orders
and directions of the court, as fully as the bankrupt might before hisbankruptcy.-. By another secti6n, (§ 9,) all sales, transfers, andother conveyances of the bankrupt's propertyand rights of property,
are
required to bebemade
by theassignee
4t suca
times'court
andinin such
manner'as
ordered
and appointed
by the
akruptcy. Byshall
another section, (§ 11;) the
assignee is clothed with full
authority,
by andto under
the and
orderdischarge
and diretion
of the proper
in
bankruptcy,
redeem
any mortgage,
or court
other
pledge,
or
deposit,
or
lien
uptrn
any
property,
real
or
personal,'and
to tender a dueperformance thereof, and to compound any debts or
other claims or securities due or belonging-to the estate of the
bankrupt
n
From this brief review of these enactments it is manifest that
-

the
so essential
to the, just operation
the bankrupt
ys
tern,purposes
could scarcely
be accomplished
except byofclothing
the courts
of the United States sitting in hankruptcy with the most ample p& ers and jurisdiction to accomplish them; and .it
gould
be r matter
of extreme surprise
tt'when
Congress had thus required
end-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

sIn

Ex parte- Christy.

they should at the same -time .have withheld the means by which,
alone it could be successfully reached. Accordingly we find that
by the 6th section of the act it is expressly provided, "that the District Court in every district shall have jurisdiction. in all matters and
proceedings in bankruptcy arising under this act, and any other act
which may hereafter be -passed on the subject of bankruptcy, the
said jurisdiction to be exercised sprmmarily in the nature of summiry proceedings in equity; and for this purpose tbe said District
Court shall be"deemed always open. And the district judge may
adjourn any point or question arising ii any case in -bankruptcy into
the C'rcuit Court-for the district, in his discretion, to be there heard
and determined; and for this purpose the Circuit Court of such district shall also be deemed always open." If the section had stopped
here, there could have been no reasonable ground to doubt that it
reached all cases where the rights, claims, and property of the bankrupt, or those of his assignee, are concerned, since they are matters
arising under theact, and are necessarily involved in the due administration and settlement of the bankrupt's estate. In this respect thelanguage of the act seems to have been borrowed from'the language
of the Constitution, inwhich the judicial power'is declared to-extend to cases arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United States. But the section does not stop here, but in order to
avoid all doubt it goes on to enumerate certain specific classeg of
cases to which the jurisdiction hall be deemed to extend, not by
way of limitation, but in explanation and illustration of the generality of the preceding language. The s ection further declares
And the
jurisdiction
conferreon
n theDistrict
Court
shall
extend
to all
cases and hereby
coiitroversies
in bankrupty
erising
betweeii
the -bankrupt and-any creditor or creditors, who-shall claim any debt.
or demand
between
under
to all
sand of
controversies
such
creidi the bankruptcy;
ritors and
thecases
assignee
the estat
whether in office or removed; and to all acts, matters, and things,
to be done under and in virtue of the bankruptcy until the final distribution
and Settlement
of the estate of
thelast
bankrupt,
the c1ose
of the proceedings
in bankruptcy."
This
clause and
is manifestly
added in order to prevent the force of any argument that the specific
enumeration of the particular classes, of cases ought to-be construed"

as excluding all. others not enumerated, upon the known maxim,
often incorrectly applied, Wxpressio unous est ecusio alteriu. The
8th section of the
dct
further illustrates this subject. It is there lov0ded, "That the Circuit Court within and for the distict
nhere
the
decree of bankruptcy is passed, shall have concurrent jo isdictioh
with the Districtsrt
Cc. of the Same district, of all suits at law and
in equity which rny and shall be brought by any assignee f the
bankrupt against any person o per:ans claiming an adverse inte est,
or by such-person against such assignee touching any propertheor
rights of property of such bankrupt t±ansferrable to or vested in suc
VeOL. III.--40

2D

314

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

assignee?' Now, this clause certainly supposes either that the District Court, in virtue of the 6th section above cited, is already in
'full possession of the jurisdiction, in the class of cases here mentioned, at least so far as they are of an equitable nature, and then
confers the like concurrent jurisdiction on the Circu'it Court, or it
intends to confer on both courts a coextensive authority over that
very 6lass of cases, and thereby demonstrates that Congress did-not
intend to limit the jurisdiction of the District Court to the classes of
cases specifically enumerated in the 6th section, but to bring within
its reaqh all adverse, claims. Of course, in whichever court such
adverse suit shpuld be first brought, that would give such court full
jurisdiction thereof, to the exclusion of the other, but in no shape
whatsoever can this 6lause be construed otherwise to abridge the
exclusive jurisdiction of the District Court over all .other "matters
and proceedings in bankruptcy arising under the act," or-over "1all
acts, and matters and things to be -done under and in virtue of the
bankruptcy."
'One ground urged in the declinatory plea of the bank to the supplemental petition, and also in the argument here, is, that the District Court would have had jurisdiction in equity over the present
case, if the suit had been by a formal bill and other plenary proceedings according to the common course of such suits in the Circuit Court, but that. it has n6 right t6 sustain the suit in its present
form of a summary proceeding in equity. Now, without stopping
to consider whether the petition- of the assignee in the present case
is not in substance, and for all useful purposes, a bill in equity, it is
clear that the suggestion has no .foundation whatsoever in the langulage or objects of the 6th or 8th sections of the Bankrupt Act.
There iAno provision in the former section authorizing or requiring
the District Court to Proceed in equity otherwise than "summarily
in the nature of summary pioceedings in equity;" and that court is
by the same section'clothed with fill power and authority, aid indeed: it is made its duty, "from -time to time to prescribe suitable
rules, and regulations and forms of proceedings, in all matters in
bankruptcy," subject-to the revision of the Circuit Court; and it is
added: "And in all such rules, and remlations, and forms, it shall
be the duty of the said courts to make them as simple and brief as
practicable, to the end to avoid all unnecessary expenses, and to
facilitate the use flereof by' "the public at large." If any inference is to be drawn from this language, it is, not that the District
Court should in any case proceed by plenary proceedings in equity
in cases of bankruptcy, but that the Circuit Court should, by the
interposition of its revising power, aid in tie suppression of"any
such plenary proceedings if they should be attempted therein. The
manifest object of the act was to provide speedy proceedings, and
the ascertainment and adjustment of all claims and rights in favour
of or bigainst the bankrupt's estate, in the most expeLi.ious manner,.

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

815

Ex parte Chiisty.
consistent with justice and equity, without being retarded or 6bstructed by formal proceedings, according to the general course of
equity practice, which had nothing to do with the merits.
Another ground of objection insisted on in the argument is, that
the language of the 6th 'section, where it refers to " any creditor,
or creditors, who shall claim.any debt or demand under the bankruptcy," is exclusively limited to such creditors as come in and
prove their debts under the bankruptcy, and does- not apply to
creditors who claim adversely thereto. If this argument were well
founded, it would be sufficient to say, that. the case would then fall
within the concurrent jurisdiction given by the 8th section already
cite d, and therefore not avail for the City Bank. But we do not so
interpret the language. When creditors are spoken of "who claim
a debt or demand under the bankruptcyi" we understand, the meaning to be that they are creditors of the bankrupt, anid that their debts
constitute present subsisting claims upon the bankrupt's estate, unextinguished in fact or in law, and capable of being asserted under
the bankruptcy in any manner and form which the creditors migt
elect, whether- they9 have a security by way of pledge- or mortgage
therefor or not. If they have a pledge or mortgage therefor, they
may apply to the. court to have the same sold, and the proceeds
thereof applied towards the payment of their debts pro tanto, and
to prove for the residue; or, on the bther hind, th assignpee may
contest their claims in the court, or seek to ascertain the true amount
thereof, and have the residue of the property, after satisfying their
claims, applied for the benefit of the other creditors. Still, the
debts oi demands are in either view-debts or demands under the
bankruptcy, and they ire required by the Bankrupt Act to be included by the bankrupt in the list of 'the debts due to his. creditors
when he applies for the benefit of the act; so that there is nothing
in the language or intent of the 6th 8ection to justify the conclusion
which the argument seeks to arrive at. The bth section of the
Bankrupt Act is fmnbed diverso intuitu. It does not speak of
creditors who shall claim any debt or demand under the bankruptcy,
but it uses other qualifying language. The words are: "All creditors coming in and proving their debts under such bankruptcy in
the-manner hereinafter preseribed, the same being bona fide debts,
shall be entitled to share in the batlrupt's property and effects pro
rata, &c. ; and no creditor or other person coming in or proving his
debf or other claim, shall be allowed to maintain any suit at law or
in equity therefor, but shall be deemed thereby to have waived all
right of action and suit against such bankrupt."- But this provision
by no means interferes with the'-right of any creditor to proceed
against the assignee under the bankruptcy to have the benefit of
any mortgage, pledge, or other~security, pro tanto for his debt, if
he elects so to do, or with the rights of the assignee to redeem the

316

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

-

same, or otherwise to contest the validity of the debt or security
under the bankruptcy.
It is also suggested that the proviso of the, 2d section of the act
declares, "That nothing in this act shall be- construed to annul,
destroy, or impair any lawful rights of married women or' minors, or
any liensmortgages, 'or other securities on property, real or personal, which may be valid by the laws of the states respectively, and
which may not be inconsistent with the provisions of the 2d and
5th sections of this act;" , and that- thereby such liens, mortgages,
and other securities are, saved from the operation of the Bankrupt
Act, and by inference, from the jurisdiction of the District Court.
But we are of opinion that the inf.rence thus attempted to be rwn,
is not justified by the premises. There is. no doubt that the liens,
mortgages, and other securities within the purview of this proviso,
so far as they are valid by the state laws, are not 'to be annulled,
destroyed, or impaired under the proceedings in bankruptcy; but
they are to be held of equal obligation and validity in the courts of
the United States as they would be in the state courts. The District Court, sitting in bankruptcy, is bound to respect and protect
them.' But this ddes not and cannot interfere with the jurisdiction
and righf of the District Court to inquire into and ascertain the validity and extent of such liens, mortgages, and. other securities, and
to grant the same remedial justice and relief to all the parties interested therein as the. state courts night or ought to grant. If the
equall~r to establish, that, no
argument has any force, it would go
the Circuit Court, nor the Disof the United States, neither
court
'could entertain"any jurisdiction over any 'such cases, but
trict.Court,
that they exclusively belong to the jurisdiction of the state courts.
Such a conclusion would be at war with the whole theory and practice under the judicial power given by the Constitution-and laws of
the -United States. The rights and the remedies in such cases are
entirely distinct. While the former are to be fully recogaised in all
courts, the latter belongto theex fan , and are within th compecourts equally with the state courts.
yiational
tency of the.
Let us sift this argument a little more in detail. The 8th section
of the'Bankrupt Act.(as we have already seen) confers on the Circuit-Court concurrent jurisdiction with the District Court of all- suits
at law and in equity brought by the assignee against any persou
claiming an adverse interest, and e converso by such person" against
the asstgnee. Now, the- argument at the bar.supposes, thats'a creditor having ny lien, mortgage, or-other security, falls within, the
cateory here described as having an adverse interest. Assumig
tso be true, (on which we gie no opinidn; and the clause cer-

taiuly
under

by titles paramount
claiming
'include persons
does
8th
the not
that, under and
be admitted
still it must
the bankrupt,)
creditor
such
against
or
by
broght
be
may
equity
in
bill
a
section,
in the Circult Cnurt to redeem or foreclose, or to enforce, or toset

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

317

Ex parte Christy.

aside such a lien, mortgage, or bther security? If it can be, then
the lien, mortgage, or other security, is not saved from the cogni- sance of fhe Circuit Court having jurisdiction in bankruptcy, but
the most ample remedies lie there; and although the rights of such
creditors are to be protected, they are subject to the entire examination and decision of the court as much as they would be, if brought
before the court in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction. If,
then, the jurisdiction over such liens, Inortgages,. and securities
exists in the Circuit Court, it follows from the very words of- the
Bakrupt Act, that the Distrivt*Court has a concurrent jurisdiction
to the same extent and with the same powers.
But it is objected, that the jurisdiction of the District Court'is
pummary in equity, and without appeal to any higher court. This
we readily admit., But this was a matter for the consideration of
Congress in framing the act. Congress possess the sole right to.say what shall be the forms of proceedings; either -in equity or at law, in
te courts of the United States; - and in what cases an appeal shall
be allowed or not. It- is a matter of sound discretion, and t6 be
exercised by.Congress-in such a manner as shall in their judgment
best proinote the public convenience and the&true interests of the
citizens.-' Because the proceedings are to be in the nature of summary proceedings in equity, it by no means 'follows, that they are
not entirely consistent with the principles of justice'and adapted to
promote the interest as well as the convenience of all suitors. Be.
cause there is no appeal given,' it by no meang follows, that the
jurisdiction is either oppressive or dangerous. No appeal lies from
the judgments either of th6 District or Circuit Court in criminal
cases; and yet within the cognisance of one or both of those courts
are all crimes and ofences against the United States, from those
which are capital down to the lowest misdemeanors; affecting the
liberty and the.property of the citizens. And yet- there can be no
doubt that this denial of appellate jurisdiction is founded in a wise
protective public policy. The same reasoning would apply to the
appellate jurisdiction from the decrees and judgments bf the Circuit'
Court, which are limited to cases above $2000, and cases below
that sum embrace a large proportion of the business of that court.
But, in 'the present instance, the public policy of confiding the
whole jurisdiction to the District Court without appeal in ordinary
cases requires no elaborate argument for its vindication. The distrirt judges are presumed to be entirely competent to all the duties
imposed upof them by the Bankrupt Act. In cases of doubt- or
difficulty, the.judges have full authority given to Athem to adjourn
any questions nto the Circuit Court for a final decision.. That very
course was adopted in the present case. In the next place, in one
class of cases, that of adverse interests between the assignee and
third persons, either party is at liberty to institute original proceedings in the Circuit Court, -if a prior suit .has not been brought there2D2

318

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

for, in the District Court. So that here the act has afforded effectual
means to have the aid and assistance of the judge of the Circuit
Court, wherever it may seem to be either expedient or necessary to
resolve any questions of importance or difficulty, and it has also
secured to parties having aft adverse interest a right at their election
to proceed in the District or the Ci'cuit Court for any remedial justice which their case may require. On the other hand, the avowed
policy of'the Bankrupt Act, that of ensuring a speedy administration
and distribution of the bahkrupt's effects, would (as has been already
suggested) be greatly retarded, if not utterly defeated by the delays
necessarily incident to regular and plenary proceedings in equity in
the District Court, or by allowing appeals from the District Court to
the Circuit Court in all matters-arising under the Bankruptcy.
It is farther objected that, if the jurisdiction of the District Court
is as broad and comprehensive as the terms of the act justify according to the interpretation here insisted on, it operates or may operate
to suspend or control all proceedings in the state courts either then
pending or thereafter to be brought by:any creditor or person having any adverse interest. to enforce his fights or obtain remedial
redress against the bankrupt oi his assets after the bankruptcy. We
entertain no doubt that, under the provisions of the 6th section of
the act, the District Court does possess full jurisdiction to suspend
the state courts, not by acting on the
or control such proceedings -in
courts, over which. it possesses no authority; -biut by acting on the
parties through the instrumentality of an injunction or. other remedial
proceedings -in equity upon due application made by the assignee
and a proper case being laid before the court requiring such interference. Such a course is very familiar in courts of chancery,'in
cases 'where- a creditors' bill is 'filed for the. administration of the
-estate qf a deceased person, and it becomes necessary or proper to
take the whole assets into the hands of the courts for the purpose'of
collecting. and marshalling the assets, ascertaining and'adjusting
-conflicting priorities and claims, and accomplishing a due and equitable distribution among all the parties in interest in the estate.
Similar proceedings have been instituted in England in cases of
bankruptcy ;. and they were -ithout doubt in the contemplation of
working of the bankrupt
Congress as indispensable to the practical -system. But because the District Court does possess such a jurisdiction,under the act, there is nothing in the act which requires that
it should in .all cases be absolutely exercised. On the contraryi
where suit are pending in the state cburts, and there is nothing in
them which-requiies the equitable interference of the District Court
to prevent any mischief or Nvrong to other creditors under the bankruptcy, or iniy waste or misapplication of the assets, the parties may
well be'permitted to proceed in such suits and consummate them
by proper decrees and judgments, especially where there is no suggestion of any fraud or injustice on the part of the plaintiffs in those

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

319

Ex parte Christy.
suits. The act itself contemplates. that such suits may be prosecuted
and further'proceedings bad in the state courts; for the assignee is
by the 3d section authorized to sue for and defend the property
vested in him under the bankruptcy, "subject to the orders and
directions of the District Court," "and all suits at law and in equity
then pending'in which such bankrupt is a party, may be prosecuted
and defended by such assignee to its -final conclusion in the same
way and manner and with the same effect as they might have been
by the bankrupt."
So that here the prosecution or defence of any
such suits in the state 'courts is obviously intended to be placed under the discretionary authority of the District Court. And in point
of fact, as we all know, very few, comparatively speaking, of the
numerous suits pending in the state courts at the time of the bankruptcy ever have been interfered with, and never, unless some equity
intervened which required the interposition of the District Court to
sustain or protect it.-.
It would be easy to put cases in which the exercise of this authority may be indispensable on the part of the District Court, to.prevent
irreparable injury, or loss, or waste, of the assets, without adverting
to the case at bar, where, upon the allegationis in the petition and supplemental petition, the creditors of the baikrupt are attempting to
enforce a mortgage asserted to be illegal and invalid, and to procure
a forced sale of the property by the sheriff, in an illegal and irregular manner, thereby sacrificing the interest of the other creditors under the bankruptcy. Let us put the case of numerous suits pending,
or to be brought iii the state courts, upon different mortgages, by
the mortgagees, upon various tracts of land and other property,
some of the mortgages being upon the whole of the tracts of land or
other property; some upon a part only thereof; some of them involving a-conflict of independent titles; some of them involving
questions as to the extingishment,or satisfaction, or validity, of the
debts; and some of them involving very doubtful questions as to the
construction of the terms and extent of the. conveyances. If all such
suits may be -brought by the separate mortagees, in the different
state tribunals, and the mortgagees cannot be compelled to join in,
or to be mide parties defendant t6 one single. bill, (as is certainly the
case in those states where general equity jurisdiction is not given to
the state courts,) it is most ob-rious that, as each of. the state tribunals may or must proceed upon the single case' only before it, the
most conflicting decisions may be made, and gross and irreparable
injustice may be done to the other mortcgagees, as well as to the-general creditors under the bankruptcy. All this, however, is completely
avoided, by bringing the whole maters in controversy between all
the mortgagees before the District or Circuit Court, making them all
parties to the summary proceedings in equity, and thus enabling the
court to marshal the rights, and priorities, and claims, of all the
parties, and by a sale and other proper .proceedings, after satisfying

820

SUPREME" COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

the just claims of all the mortgagees, applying the residue of the assets, if any, for the benefit of the general creditqrs. Similar considerations would apply to other liens and securities, held by different
parties in'the same property, or furnishing grounds 6f conflict and
controversy as to their rbespctive rights rand claims.
.Besides, how is the bankrupt court "or the assignee, in a great
variety of cases of liens, mortgages, and other securities, to ascertain
the just and full amount thereof -4er the. deduction of all payments
and equitable set-offs, unless'it can entertain a suit'in equity, for a
discovery of the debts' and payments, and set-offs, and grant suitable relief. in the premises? The bankrupt is fiot, in his schedule,
bound'to specify them; and if he did, non congtat that the other parties would- admit their correctness, or that the general 'creditors
would admit their validity and amount.. The 11th section of the
act gives tlhe assignee full'.power and authority,-by and under the
order and direction of the, proper court in bankruptcy, to redeem
and discharge any mortgage or other pledge, or deposit, or lien,
upon any property, and to-tender a due performance of the conditions thereof. .But how can this be oefibctualry done, unless thebankrupt court and assignee can, by proceedings in that very court,
ascertain what is the amount of such mortgage, or pledge, or deposit, or lien, and what acts are to be done as a performance of the
mortgage, or pledge, or deposit, through the instrumentality of a
suit in the nature of a summary proceeding in equity for a discovery
"-andrelief? If we are told that resort may.be had to the state courts
.for-redressone answer is, that in some of the states no' adequate jurisdiction 'exists in the state courts, since they are not clothed with
general jurisdiction in equity. But a stronger and more conclusive
answer is, that Congress did ,not intend to trust the working of the
bankrupt system solely to the state courts of twenty-six states, whichwere independent of any control by the general government, and
were under no obligations to carry the system into effect. The judicial power ofthe United States is, by the Constitution, competent
to' all such purposes; and Congress, by the act, intended to secure
the complete administration of the whole system in its own courts,
as it constitutionally might do.
Let us look at.another provision of the act already referred to,
-Which. declares, "that in order to insure a speedy settlement and
close of the proceedings in each case in bankruptcy, it shall be the
duty of the court to order and direct a collection of the assets, and
a reduction of the same to money, and a distribution -thereof, at as
early periods as practicable." Now here again, it may be repeated,
that the end is required, and can it be doubted that adequate means
to accomplish the end are intended to be given? Construing the
language of the 6th section as we construe it, adequate means are
iven; construing it the other way, and it excludes the jurisdiction,
if not of the whole subject, at least of the most iinportant parts :of

JANUARY. TERM, 1845.

821

Ex parte ChLris-ty.

the systemj and they are left solely to the cognisance of the tribunals
of twenty-six different states, no one of which is bound by,the acts
of the others, or is under.the control of the national courts. If it be
admitted, (what cannot well be denied,) that the District Court may
order a sale of-the property of the bankrupt, under this section, how
can that sale be made safe to th purchasers, until all claims thereon
have been ascertained and adjusted? How can any distribution of
the assets be made, until ill such'c]aiins are definitively liquidated?
How can the procdedings be brought to a close at all, far less within
the two years, unless all parties claiming an interest, adverse or othezwise, can be brought before the bankrupt court, to assert and main
tan them? Besides, independently of the delays which must necessarily be incident to a resort to state tribunals to adjust the matters
and rights affected by or arising in bankruptcy, considering the vast
number-of cases pending in those courts, in-the due administration
of their own juristruderncz-and laws, there could hardly fail to be a
-conflict in the decisions, as to the priority and extent of the various
claims of the creditors, pursuing their remedies-thereini in distinct and
independent suits, -and perhaps, also,.-in different state tribunals of
co-ordinate jurisdiction. These are but a few of the cases which
may be put to show the propriety, nay, the necessity, of the jurisdiction of the District Court to the full extent of readhing all cases a;!&ing out of the bankrupt act.
The truth is, (as.h-as been already asserted,) that in no-other way
could the bankrupt system be put into operation, without interminable doubts, controversies, embarrassments, and difficulties, or in
such a manner as to achieve the true end and design thereof. Its
success was dependent upon the national machinery being made
adequate to all'the exigencies of the act. Prompt ad ready action,
.without heavy charges or expenses, could be safely relied on, when
the whole jurisdiction was confided to a siigle court, in the collection of the assets; in the ascertainment and liquidation of the liens
and other specific claims thereon; in adjusting the various iriorities
and conflicting interests; inmarshalling the different funds and asfe'ts; in directing the sales at sich times and in such a manner as
should best "subseive the interests of 'all concerned ; in preventin.g,
by injunction or otherwise, any particular creditor or person, hvving
an adverse interest, from obtaining an unjust-and inequitable preference over the g~neral creditors, byan improper use of his rights or
his remedies in the state tribunals; and finally, inmaking a due distribution of the assets,- and bringing to a close, within a reasonable
time,'the whole proceddings in bankruptcy. Sound policy, therefbre, and a just regard to public*as well as private interests, manifestly dictated to Congress the propriet r of vesting in the District
Court full and complete jurisdiction over all cases ariing, or acts
done, or matters involved, in the due administratioi and final settlement of the banki-upt's estate; and it is accordingly, in our judgment,
VOL. III.-41

322

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

designedly given by the 6th section of the act. In this view of the
matter, the District Court has not exceeded its jurisdiction in entertaining the presen
it has full power and authority to proceed
to the due adjudication but
thereof upon its merits.
viewwhether
of the subject disposes also of the other question made
at This
the bar,
this court has jurisdiction to issue a writ of prohibition to the District Court in cases in bankruptcy, if it has exceeded its-proper jurisdiction. As the District Court has not xfeeded
its jurisdiction in the preent case, the question is not absolutely necessary to be decided. But it may be proper to say, as the point
has been flly argued, that we possess no revising power over the
decrees of the District Court sitting in bankruptcyp; that the District
Court, in the present case, has not interfered with, or in any manner
evaded or obstructed, the appellate authorityof this court, by entertaining
present to
writ;
that we k-now of no case where this
court is the
authorized
issueand
a writ
of prohibition to the District Court,
excep/t-in the cases expressly provided for by the 13th section of the
Judiciary
of Y789, chap.
20, of
that
is to say,
the jurisdicDistrict
Courts areAct
"proceeding
as courts
admiralty
adwhere
maritime
tion."
-Uion
t

e

the motion for a writ of prohibition is overruled.

Mr.the
Justice
By
14th CATRON.
section of the Judiciary Act this court has power to
issue writs proper and necessary for the exercise of its.jurisdiction;
having no jurisdiction in any given case, it can issue nowrit : that
it has none to revise the proceeding
of a bankrupt court is our
unanimous opinion. So far. we adjudge; and in this I concur.
For. furtheh ies why
the
prohibition
omot
issue I refer o the
conclusion of the .principal opinion. But a majority ofmy brethren
see proper to go further, nd express their views at large on the jurisdiction of the bankrupt court. In this course I cannot autr;
perhaps-it is the result of timidity growing out of-long established
judicial
habits-in
courts
error the
elsewheri,
never to hazard an
opinion wher
no case
wasofbefore
court, and
when hat opinion
might be justly arraigned asextra-judicial, and a mere dictum by
courts and lawyers; be partly disregarde'd while .Iwas living, -and
almost certainly
be denounced
when I was
no.
more.
A measure
of disregardas ufidue
awardedassumption
with n unaring
hand
here and elsewhere,- to the dicta of state judges-under simlar.cir. humstannes: andit is due to the occasion and to myself to ayi that
I have no dtubt the dicta of this court will only be treated with bercoming respect bhore the coanrt itself, so
s sogme ofrgthe judges
who concurred in tiem are present on the bench ; and afterwards
be openly rejected aio. authority-as they are n
ot..
o The case standing in the DistrictConrt of Louisiana will test it
aslowell as other. The application for a prohibition was brought

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

323

Ex parte Chris.ty.

before us at last term; then the late Mr. Justice Baldwin was here,
and one other of the judg-es now present was then absent; had the
matter not then been lais over on advisement, and a decision been
had adverse to our jurisdiction to award the writ; and an opinion
been expressed by the majority of th6 judges then, pregent, against
the legality of the proceeding in -the bankrupt court, declaring it
void, and that in the state court valid; would the bankrupt court
be bound to conform to such opinion; would it overrule the instructions given in the particular case by the Circuit Court on the
questions adjourned, dismiss the jetition of Christy, the assignee,
and let the decree and sald foreclosing the mortgage made by the
state courts stanrd? Will the bankrupt court of Pennsylvania be
bound, either judicially 6r in comity, by the opinion now given by
a majority of the judges present, to overthrow that of Mi.-Justice
Baldwin in the case hereto appended; or is it bound to conform?
Are the bankrupt courts in all the districts that have held the state
proceedings on liens to be valid, and not subject to their supervision, now bound to suppress 'such.proceedings on the suggestion of
assignees that they were erroneous or inconvenient, regardless of
proof, as was done in Louisiana, and thereby overhaul cases[ in
great humbers supposed to be settled? Certainly not. This court.
has no power over the bankrupt courts, more than they have over
this court; the bankrupt law has nade them altogether independent,
.ind their decrees as binding as ours, and as final. We have as
little power to control them as the state courts have; they may concur with the reasoning of either, or neither, at discretion. I therefore think we should refrain foiii expressing any extra-judicial
opinion on the present occasion; we did so in Nelson v. Carland,
1 How. 265, a case involving the constitutionality of the bankrupt
law, and I then supposed most properly, by the majority of the court,
who thought we had no jurisdiction: a more imposing application,
requiring an opinion, could not have been presented, as twelve
hundred cases depended on the decision of the District Court of
Missouri, which was opposed fo the constitutionality of the law;
and to revise it the case was brought here. So in Dorr's application, at the present term, for a writ of habeas corpus, the same course
was pursued. That application and this are not distinguishable in
principle : in neither had this court power to bring a case for judgment into it; there, and here, we held nothing was before us, or
could be brought before us. With this course I would now content myself, was it not that by acquiescing in'silence withthe opiniod
of my brethren I milglt be supposed to have agreed x ith them in
the' 6ourse pursued; and also in the views expressed in the affirman ce of the jurisdiclion exercised under the bankrupt law by the
Circuit Court of Eastern Louisiana; to both of which my opinion is
adverse, and that most decidedly. The case presented to that court
was this:-

824

SUPREME COURT.
Ex paite Christy.

In 1839, Walden gave to the City Bank a mortgage to secure the
payment of $200,000 loaned him, on a plantation and town lots.
in 1840, he instituted a suit in the District Court of the state, in
New Orleans, to set the mortgage aside as void; -a trial was had,
and the court adjudged the mortgage valid; from this Walden appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; and that court affirmed
the judgment.
The bank then proceeded in the District Court of the state to
foreclose the mortgage, and on the 17th of May, 1842, an order of
seizure and sale was made 3 and an actual seizure of the property
was executed on the 19th- of May. The- sale took place on the
27th of June.
The property was sold by lots, after appraisement, in conformity
to the laws of Louisiana, and the bank became the purchaser at the
price of $160,000.
That the iale was made in regular and due form, according to the
modes-of proceeding in the state courts, cannot be controverted.
On the 18th of June, 1842, Walden filed his petition for the benefit of the bankiupt law; and on the 18th of July-was declared a
bankrupt, and an assignee appointed. The -$200,000 was on Walden's creditor list, but the bank refused t6 prove its debt, and relied
on the decree of foreclosure, and the force of its lien, by the mortgage.
Christy, the. assignee, filed his petition in the bankrupt court, and
as part- of the proceeding in bankruptcy, to have the sale declared
void: 1. Because it was made afer Walden applied for the benefit
of the bankrupt law. 2. Because the sale had been unfairly con-ducted. 3. Because the proceeding in the state court was erropeous. 4, Because the debt was* affected with usury, and therefore
the mortgage void originally:; and should be so decreed by'the
bankrupt court.The bank. appeared, and pleaded to the jurisdiction of the bankript court; and relied on the proceedings-of the state -court as valid
by answer. Exceptions were taken to this plea and answer, which
were adjourned to the Circuit Court; there it was adjudged, and
the District Court instructed:
1. That it had full and ample jurisdiction to try all the questions
set forth in the petition of-the assignee; and to try, adjudge, and
determine the same between the parties.
2.- That the seizure and sale of the state court were void; and
that the District Court of the United States do declare it void.
3. That the District Court has full power and authority to try and
determine the validity of the mortgage; and if proved'on the trial
void, to declare it so, and tomake a decree ordering the property
to be sold for the benefit of the creditors generally; but if found
valid, the bank to have the benefit of'its lien.
This decree pronounced void the judgment of the Supreme Court

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

325'

Ex parte Christy.
of Louisiana,'affirming that of the inferior court declaring the mortgage valid, and not affected with usury; which- was conclusive between Walden and the bank before the bankrupt law existed. 2. It
declared void the decree and order of iseizure made before Walaen
applied for the benefit of the act-and it declared void.the sale': In
short, it annulled all the judgments of the state courts, and assumed
to extinguish the title acquired under them; and has extinguished
in form and fact, if'the views of a majority of my presenf brethren be
correct, a title indisputable according to the laws of Louisiana standing alone; this is manifest from the slightest' examination of the
facts, and laws applicable to them. On the 18th of July the decree.
declaring Walden a bankrupt was passed ; up to this •date he might
or might not be declared a bankrupt, dither. at his own instance, or
that of the court ;-therefore *hewas a proper party 'before thi state
court until that time; afterwards he was represented by his assignee ;'
his property was inder execution when 'he was- declared'a bankrupt; if he had then died, still the duty of'-.te officer would have
been to sell; the execution having' commenced, a natural. o' civil
death could not defeat it; as th'e property was in the custody of the
law.
If it be true that this title is voidi it follows every other is 'void
where a sale has taken 'place after the defendant to.the' execution
(issued Ey a state court) had applied for the benefit of the bankrupt
law; and this whether the execution was awarded in the form usual
to courts of law, or by decree in a court of chancery, ordering a
seizure and sale by force of the decree. Every sheriff, or commissioner in chancery, executing such writ or decree, must have been
a trespasser;. and all persons taking under such sales deluded purchasers. In' the .eighth circuit 'here are very many such cases beyond doubt; they are founded on my opinion acting with the listrict judges, who fully concurred with me, that such sales werelawful, and the titles acquired under them valid. In two other circuits at least, similar views have been entertained, and no doubt
similar consequences have followed. It is therefore due to interests
so extensive, affecting so many titles, that they should not be overthrown until-a case callincr for the authoritative adjudication of this
court is presented involving them, and therefore these brief 'views
•have been expressed ; not on the jurisdictior of the bdnkrupt courts
generally; but on the precise facts presented as the grounds on
which the prohibition was demanded.
.
On the force of the lien, and the iemedy to enforce it, as a right
excepted from the bankrupt law, I have said nothing, because my
late brother Baldwin was called on to follow the decision oiven in
.Louisiana and refused. As he deqided'under the responsibiity of
passin, on men's rights, and. from whcfse judgment there 'was no
appeal , his opinion is judicial, and authoritative throughout his late
circuit, whereas mine on the present occasion would be extra-judi-

2"E

SUPREME COURT.

326

Ex'parte Christy.

cial, and therefore I append his instead of any I may entertain individually.
In the aforegoing opinion of Mr. Justice CAntoN. Mr. Justice
DANIEL

concurs.

Opinion of Mr. Justice BALDwiN, adopted by Mr. Justice CATooN
as a part of his dissenting opinion.
In the mattei of John Kerlin, a Bankrupt. Oct. 26, 1843.
On the 13th of May, 1843, the assignees of John Kerlifi, a bankrupt, presented their petition to the judge of the District Court for
the eastern district of Pennsylvania, 1raying for an order, authorizing them 'to sell certain real estate of the baikrupt, in Delaware
county. On the face of the petition it appeared that at the time of
the decree of bankruptcy, the property was subjbcted to encumbrances amounting to $14;800; that it had been sold by the sheriff
of Delaware county on the 11th of May,'1843, for the sum of
$8000, by virtue of proceeidings issued-by the Court of Common
Pleas of Delaware county, under one of the mortgages recorded
before the decree of bankruptcy, but the purchaser had not complied with the terms of the sale.- The assignee in bankruptcy contended that the sheriff could not 'make title to the premises, anduffder a decision of the Circuit Court* in Louisiana, claimed .the
right to sell. The district judge -(Randall) -refused to grant the
order, but at request'of the parties adjourned the question to the
Circuit Court, where the following opinion was delivered by 3ald-

win, J.
The following questions have been certified by the district judge
for the opinion of this court:
"Ist. Does a sale by a sheriff after a decree of. bankruptcy, by
virtue of process issued on a judgment or mortgage, which was- a
lien on the property of the bankrupt before ana at the time of the
decree, divest the title of the assignee in bankruptcy?"
"2d. In case of a sale made by the assignee under an.order of
the court, if the whole of the purchase money is not sufficient to
discharge the liens existing at the time of the decree, are the liens
divested by such sale ?"
The leading principle which has governed this court in the construction of the Bankrupt Act of 1841 has been to consider it as
establishing a uniform law on the subject of bankruptcies, in the
most comprehensi-ie sense of the words as used in the Constitution,
in which there is no other restriction on the'power of Congress than
that the-laws shall be uniform throughout the United States. To
make it so in its tractical opepration, it must be taken as it reads,its words must receive their appropriate meaning, with reference to
the whole law, and the policy developed in its various provisions.
These constitute that system which it wias intended to establish,

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

327

Ex parte Christy.

not by assuming that the design of the law was to adopt any pre,
existing rules and principles found only in the former legislation of
Congress, or in other countries, and then to so apply it as to effectuate a supposed policy not apparent in the law itself, nor consistent
with its language, the insertion of which into the system must make
it operate according to the intention of other legislatures, and-require
a mode of construction which will do -violence to the plainest terms
used to denote and declare the policy and general principles which
Congress have- actually established.
That the act of 1841 is anomalous in its provisions, unlike any
other-known in any legislation here or elsewhere, cannot be doubted. In the great outlines as well as in the details of the system, we
feel the exercise of an express plenary power, competent to act at
its own unlimited discretion, (so that the action be uniform,) either
by adopting or modifying some old system on the subject of bankruiptcy or prescribing a new one; 'the latter mode has seemed the
better in the eye of thelegislature, and the duty of the judicial department, is to consider its intention and to carry it into effect.
In applying this principle to the solution of the first question now
submitted, there seems no difficulty as to the policy and intentions
of the law from its unequivocal language, which, as we have heretofore held, contains an express prohibition to the judicial power,
nob to so construe any provision as to annul, destroy, or impair any
lien, mortgage, or other security, on property which is valid by the
laws of the states respectively, and not inconsistent with the 2d or
5th sdections.
The validity of a mortgage or judgment is submitted to no other
test than these-the laws of the states and these two sections; if
e courts is imperative. The
they stand this scrutiny, he t
Bankrupt Act protects all valid judgments or mortgages against any
construction which shal impair thm t the same extent as the
Constitution guards the obligation of contracts when attempted to
he
impaired
by state
laws. Having heretofore given this as, not
the
construction
merely,
but the inevitable result of language incapable
of beig mistaken in any fair readi
of the
last proviso
i
the d section, and
ttherefor
stated
at large,
it is not
deemed~
either necessary
or useful
nowwas
resime
of that provision
of the law,
as no to
doubt
then the
or isinvestigation
now entertained of its meaning; vide Ex parte Dudley et al., Pennsylvania
Law Journal, 302. If additional reasons could be requisite to elucidat this view of that proviso, they will be found ihthe
l1th
section, which is framed to .eet its provisions---by authorizing the
assignee with the order of rhe court, to redeem and discharge any
mortgage or ien upon any property of the bankrupt; though payable
at a future day, and to tender performance of its conditions.
This authority to redeem and discharge a lien presupposes its
validity, that it cannot be impaired by- any power of the court, and

328

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

that the assignee of tie bankrupt could not take the property so
bound before the lien was discharged, on any other terms than
those on which it was held by the bankrupt himself,.before any decree of bankruptcy had vested his rights in the assicree, else why
should it have been deemed necessary to authorize limto redeem
or discharge the lien- if it was not in full force as well after as before
the petition or decree. Neither the pr 6viso. to the 2d or the 11th
section discriminate between a lien existing before the petition filed
or after it; both comprehend all liens existing at the time of the decree as biirdens on the property, and contemplate the necessity of
their payment in full before apy other creditor can come in upon it.
The only-fund for their payment being the assets of the bankrupt in
the hands of the assignee; it is clear that the rights of those creditors
who have liens, are, and must be,. paramount to any which accrue
under -the bankruptcy to the assignee -or general creditor. When
liens are paid, then- the property which they bound becomes distributable by the assignee; if n6t paid, the rights of the lien creditor
remaining incapable of beeig impaired .by any authority conferred
by ihe Bankrupt Act, stands perfect as if that act had not been
passed; so that, if valid by the law of the state,. and not inconsistent with the 2d or 5th sections of that law, they may consequently
be enforced by i sale or other process conformably to the existing
laws of the state for enforcing liens, which no court can annul, destroy, or impair, by any proceeding in bankruptcy. Oil this subject, the principles established by the Supreme Court, in the case
of Bronson v. Kenzie, are replete with the soundest rules of jurisprudence and constitutional law, and directly applicabl.e to the
question now under consideration, which is, in all re..ects, analagous to the one then before that court on the nature -of the obligation, of the extent of the mortgage and the rights of the mortgagee;
-and the validity of the state law, which impaired his rights to enforce the payment of the mortgage money. In that case, the court
declaried, that the obligation of the contract, the rights which the
mortgagee acquired in the mortgage premises, depended on the then
existing laws of the state, which "created and defined the legal and
equitable obligation of the mortgage contract." 1 How. .315. That
the Constitution equally prohibit.i the impairing them by a state.law,
acting on the remedy or directly on the contract itself, "if. it so
changes the nature and extent of existing remedies as materially to
impair the rights aAd interests of the owner, they are just as much a
violation of the compact as if they directly overturifed his riqhts and
interests in it." 1 How. 316. "That it'may be seriously Impaired
by burdening the proceedings with new conditions and restrictions,
so as..to make the remedy hardly worth pursuing." 1 Ho*. 307.
"That the rights and.remelies of'mortgagor and mortgagee by the
law thin in force, were- a part of the law of the contract without
any express agreement of the parties--they were annexed to the

JANUARY TERM, 1645.

329

Ex parte Christy.'

contract at the time it was made and formed a part of it, and anLy

subsequent law impairing the rights thus acquired, impairs the obligations which the contract imposed." 1 How. 319. And on these
principles a state law"which encumbered the remedy of the"mortgagee by conditions imposed after its obligation had attached was
null and void. In this case' the question presented is, whether a
court of the United States, sitting in bankruptcy, can, by any rule,
order, or decree, impair the riht of a creditor by mortgage or judgment, to enforce the payment of his debts by a sale of the property
mortgaged or encumbered by the lien of a judgment, according to
the provisions of the state laws. If the right and power to sell can
be taken from the creditors and conferred on the assignee of a
bankrupt, who is a debtor by a mortgage or judgment existing. at
the time of the decree of bankruptcy; if the validity of-the liens,
the time, and terms of sale, and the distribution of the proceed s,
can, under the bankrupt law, be determined and regulated by a
judge in a proceeding in bankruptcy, from which there can be no
appeal, then the remedy for enforcing, a mortgage or judgment is no.
longer annexed to the contract or a part of it. The empty right
still remains in the mortgagee, yet the remedy is taken from him~by
the assignee of his debtor. The final adjudication, and even his
ultimate rights, and the mode of administering the remedy, is made
dependent on the discretion of a judge, exercised by the summary
proceedings prescribed by the Bankrupt Act, instead of the regular
course of the law as administered in the courts of a state. For such
a' course, there is not only no wfrrant in the law, but it is a direct
violation of the prohibition in the section, by. so construing the law
as to negative its express language, and taking from lien creditors,
by mere judiial power, those very rights and remedies which are
placed beyond its exercise, in terms positively forbiddin- it, in as
plain and emphatic language as that in which the Constitution declares that "no state shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts." The principles of the Supreme Court in the case of
Bronson, must be repudiated before a judge can exercise a power
under the Bankrupt Act which is forbidden to a state by the Constitution. If either the obli-'ation or the remedy is impaired, it matters not by Whom it is done; no state has any power to do it;
Congress can only do it by a "uniform law on the subject of bankruptcy." nor when the law is silent can the courts do it without the
-usurpation.of legislative power. But the law is not silent; it speaks
to the judge; it forbids him to do any act which impairs any lien
then existing, and, in %decidingthe first question submitted it,
this
case, I answer in the affirmative, and repeat the language of the
Supreme Court: "and it would ill become this court under any
circumstances to depart from the plain meaning of the words used,
and to sanction a distinction between the right and the remedy
which would render this provision illusive and nugatory; mere
VoL. HI.--42
2 E:2

330

SUPREME COURT.
"Ex parte Christy.

words of form, a'ording no protection and producing no practical
result." Howard, 318.
But were the Bankrupt Act open to construction, and the pro-viso of the 2d section left out of view, the result would be the
same. There is no provision in the act that interferes with the laws
of a state, which create and defend the obligation of a contract
which is a lien on property; there is nothing which professes to effect
the remedies attached to such contract, one incident of which is the
power of the creditor to sell or extend as the laws of the respective
states have prescribed; it requires the plenary and unlimited power
of Cbngress over the whole subject of bankruptcies to abrogate
state laws relating to liens, or to take from state courts the administration of remedies to enforce them, and above all to prohibit the
creditor from resorting for his remedy to that law which prescribed
it, and substituting the assignee of a bankrupt, the mere creature
and servant of a judge of th District Court, in his place, without
and against the will of the creditor. Congress may delegate such
power to-a judge or a court, but it must be in plain terms, leaving
no doubt of their intention to do so; but the proposition is a bold
one indeed, that judicial power is competent to do it, when the legislature has'not given its sanction to its exercise; it would give the
Constitution a construction which would authorize the courts to exercise the power granted to the Congress, without the passage of a
law delegating it to the judicial department. So far as the Bankrupt Act, by express words, or necessary implication, affects state
laws, state rights, the power of state courts7 or the rights and remedies of suitors therein, it must be paramount, yet too much caution
cannot be observed on this subject by the courts of the United States.
The. settled course of jurisprudence in the state is to be 'overlooked only when such is the intention of the law; no intention to
do so is to be presumed, no policy is to be assumed as the basis of
the law, other than what its words indicate, and nothing is to be
borrowed from any other system which is not consistent with that
which Congress has thought proper to create. A leading feature
of that system is the protection of all liens existing at the time of
the decree of bankruptcy; they are created by contracts which by
their own force create a remedy to enforce them ; this remedy is the
right of the creditoK, the rule for its exercise is the law of the state,
the power to sell in this state is the essence of both right and remedy. Congress has not impaired either, and forbidden'it to be done
by any construction of the Bankrupt Act; a sale made pursuant to
the laws of the state must therefore divest the title of tle assignee
in bankruptcy.
If the foregoing views are sound, they dispose of" the two questions; an order of the court in bankiruptcy van conflr on the assignee no power which Congress has not conferred on the court;
its powers are -what the law has delegated, and none othe,'; the law

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

•331"

Ex parte Christy

may and must-be construed wh~re it is open to construction, but
where the law itself forbids construction it must be taken and followed as it reads. If, therefore, an order of courf is made that
would, in its execution by an assignee, impair a lien protected by
the proviso in the 2d section, it is an excess of authority, and therefore void;
fortiori the divesting of a lien in the case put in this
question is a much higher act of power than merely impairing it by
affecting the remedy. The property bound by the lien is taken
from the creditor, his whole right is extinguished, and his debt is
lost entirely, unless he comes in for his dividend of the assets of the
bankrupt's estate.
Every principle established by the Supreme Court in the case of
Bronson, as well as the protection given to liens by the Bankrupt
Act, would be utterly prostrated, if a sale by an assignee would
disencuinber property mortgaged or bound by a judgment; such a
doctrine would equally militate -with other plain proyision§ of the
law, which clearly point out what piasses by the decree of Bankfuptoy to the assignee, when it passes, the extent of his, and the
power of the couft, and the nature of a purchaser's title. The 3d
section vests alr the property, and the rights of property of the bankrupt in the assignee " from the time of the decree of bankruptcy ;"
he then stands in the position of the.bankrupt k-before and at the
time of his bankruptcy declared;" standing in theplace of the bankrupt, the measure of his rights of 'property is necessarily that of the
assignee, who can take nothing which did not belong to the bankrupt when the law made the conveyance of all his rights of property.
To the property which was mortgaged, the. only right of the assignee was to redeem it; if it was bound by judgment or other lien,
the bankrupt held it subject to its payment ;.he could sell the equity
of redemption on the land itself,.subject to 'he lien, but the purchaser could not hold without paying it. The assignee can have -no
other rights by force of the decree, which is a conveyance by 6peration of law, than he could acquire by the deed to the bankrupt;
nor could the assignee convey a greater interest than the law devolved on him; or the court by their order make his or the estate
of a purchaser under him, an absolute one discharged of the lien
'without payment. 'The 11th section is friamed to meet this view of
the 3d; by giving power to the court to authorize the assignee to
redeem, and omitting any power to order a sale, it ig manifestly
intended merely to put the assignee in the place of the bankrupl,
but in no other'respect than enabling the assignee to appropriate the
assets in his hands to disencumber the property by payment. Following the proviso in the 2d section, the 11th withholds the power
of sale;' as that might impair tlie lien.; we thus find'that it was deemed
necessary to provide for the power of the assignee td redeem; it
cannot have been intended that there should be by implication alone
the higher power of sale, that in its exercise would take from the

332

SUPREME COURT.
Ex parte Christy.

creditor the protection given so carefully by the 2d section'; the
words of the -lth admit of no such.construction, and even if they
did, the court could not give it without overlooking the plain language of the 15th section. 1 And be it further enacted, that a copy
of any decree of bankruptcy, and the appointment of assignee,' as
directed by the 3d sectiori of this act, shall be recited in every'deed
of lands belonging to the bankrupt, sold and conveyed by any assignee under and by virtue of this act; and that such recital, together with a certified copy of such*order, shall be full and complete
evidence both of the bankruptcy and assignment thetein recited, and
-supersede the necessity of every other proof of such bankruptcy
and assignment to validate the said deed; and all deeds containing
-such recital, and supported by such proof, shall be as effectual .td
pass the title of the bankrupt of, in, and to the lands therein mentioned and described to the purchaser, as fully to all intents and
purposes as if made by such bankrupt himself immediately before
such order." Here is as precise and perfect a definition of the title
which passes to the purchaser by a sale by the assignee under an
order of court, or otherwise by virtue of the bankrupt act, with the
effect thereof; "1it is the ame to all intents and purposes as if made
by such bankrupt himse'f immediately before such order," in the
words of the 15th section, with or without an order of sale. There
is no express provision giving the court power to order a sale. The
3d. section authorizes the assignee "1to sell, manage, and dispose'of
the property, to sue for and defend the same, subject to the orders
and directions of the court, as fully to all intents and purposes as
if the same were vested in or might be exercised by such bankrupt
before or at the time of his bankruptcy, declared as aforesaid."
Connecting this with the'S1th section, declaring the effect of a sale
by an assignee, the answer to the second question is most obvious.
Such sale has the same effect as if made by the bankrupt, and no
other.. It can divest no lien existing at the time of the decree or
order declarixig him a bankrupt. The word "order" in the 15th
section refers either to.that or to the order of sale; it is not material
to which. If to the decree, then the deed of the assignee conveys.
only such titl6 and estate as the bankrupt then- had; if to the order
of sale, then that is the time to which his right is referred. But in
neither case can a sale divest a lien "existing before.or at the time,"
or "immediately" before such order. Thus taken, the Bankrupt
'Act is an. affirmance of the universal principle as laid down by the
Supreme Court in Rankin v. Scott, 12 Wheaton, 179, "that a
prior lien gives a prior claim, which is entitled to a prior satisfaction
out of the subject it binds," unless. it be defective, or the party
holding it has done some act to postpone him; and that a purchaser
is bound by the lien unless there is a prior act of the legislature to
protect him f:om it. 12 Wheat. 80, The second question therefore is answered in the negative.

