JANUARY.TERM, 1845.

LESSEE OF IENRY WALLzER, AssiGNEn OF T=n .BANEMJ
'
srAT
OF
FRANcis A. SAVAGE, PLAnvrnFF, v. JAxEs mm JoSEPH BEsT.
In KentuckWj the creditor obtains a lien upon the property of his debtor by the
delivery of afi.fa. to the aheriff; and this lied is as absolute before the levy
as it is afterwards.
Therefore, a creditor is.
not deprived of this lien by an act of bankruptcy on the
part of the debtor committed.before the levy is made, but after the execution
isin the hands of the sheriff.-

Tmis case came up from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of Kentucky, on a.certificate of division in cpinion
between the judges thereof.
The'following is the entire record in the case:"The following .statement of questions and'points of a'wwhich
arose in this case, and the adjournment thereof into the Supreme
Court of the United States for decision, ws ordered to be entered,
to wit:
"Savage had the title.to the land; the plaintiff claimed under the
decree of his bankruptcy; the defendant, under'a sheriff's sale under
an execution.
"The act of bankruptcy of savage was committed on the 27th
April, 1842; the petition of his creditors was filed ag~ainst him in
the District Court on the 25th day of June, 1842, and he was de..
elared a bankrupt on the "26th of October, 1842; the plaintiff was
appointed the assignee,.and this is his title.
'An executipj of fleri aci on ajudgment against the estate of
Savage was delivered to the-sheriff on the 9th of April, 1842, before
the att of bankruptcy and was levied.on the land on the
day
of
before the petition; 'but after the act-of benkruptcy the
defendant purchased at the sheriff's sale, had his deed,- and this was
his title.
"The question was, has the plaintifT, bythe decree of bankruptcyand its relation back to the act of bankrn ty, the elder and better
title j 6r has the defendant, by the prior delivery of the execution
into the hands of the sheriff, and his levy'of it before the petition
was filed, the pri6r and superior title?
On 'this question the judges were divided and opposed in
opinion; -whereupon; on motion of tie counsel of the plaintiff, the
question is itated and ordered to be certified to the Supreme Court
for decision."
Morehead and B. Nonro', for the plaintiff.

.RithardFrench; for the defendants.
* The argument on behalf of the plaintiff was this:
Two questions arise i 1st. -DidBest, the tenant in posses ion and
the plaintiff in the execution under which the sale of the lanfd was
made, acquire any lien, such' as is recognised by the latter proviso

112

S UPREME COURT.
Slavage's Assignee v. Best.

'of the 2d setion of the bankrupt law, before the execution was in
fact levied?
.2d. If any such was acquired, is it effectual against the rights of
the assignee of the bankrupt, when the act of bankruptcy was committed before the levy of the execution; or could the execution, in
virfue of the lien given by the state law, which was in the hands of
a sheriffy but not levied before n act of bankruptcy, be afterwards
levied, iand the property sold?
.These questions render it necessary to look to. the character. of the
lien given by the statutes of Kentucky, in favour of execution creditors, andwhen that lien commences. The statute of Kentucky
(1 Stat. -Law, 636) provides "that no writ of fieri facias, or 6ther
writ of execution, shall bind the estate of the defendant or defend.ants .but from the time such writ shall be delivered to the sheriff or
other proper officei, to be executed." What is the import of the
term bind, as'.used in the statute.? That it has some binding effect
is evident, but tb what extent? Is it a lien within the meaning 'of,the proviso of the. bankrupt law? It is 'insisted that, it is not, but ii'
only sb,far binding as to prevent such disposition of the property by
the defendant as'will defeat the execution so in-the hands of the office; and does not so far bind the property as to prevent other execution creditors from levying their executions upon the debtor's
prop-erty. See Tabbrv. Ham's, 4 Bibb; 22D, and Kelbr v. Haggin,
2JiJ.Marshall, 212. In the latter case .the court use this language:
"The only object of attaching a lien to an execution is to prevent
the debtor, from defeating the creditor, by alienating or embarrassing
his 'estate. 'The reason of the lien, in such a case, does not apply
to competition between 6reditors, and cessante ratione cessat lex;
moreover, it'is but sheer justice to give thep'reference fo the creditor
who by his superior" industry and vigilance shall have procured the
first levy on the debtor's 'estate. ' .This inierpretation of the statute
*shows what i'-the character of tLat binding spoken.of in the statute,
and that' it does not amount to the lien. refered to in-the bankrupt
law until the execution be in l'actl- levied, when it may. be adinitted
that it amounts to such lien.
2d., The proceedings-agaxist Savage was' at the instance of a ere-ditor. The apt 'ofbankruptcy complained of waa &3mmitted before
any levy of the execution, though the fil'g of the-petition and the
decree were subsequent to the levy of the exdecution of Best. At
c9mmon law afierifacias'hadrelation to its t6ste, bkit byour statute
bnly from the day of its delivery to the officer. According to the
adjudications of the English courts, .on the bdnkrupt' laws o that
.country anterior to the 36 George 3 and the 6' George 4, the-uniform and well settled doctrine -was that the assignee %ad' a'right to
oyerhaul all the fransacions of the bankrupt subsequent to the first
act of bankruptcy, and recover all moneys or property which passed
through his hands; .but by the 18th section of the 6 George 4,

JANUARY-TERM, 1845.

113

Savage's Assignee v.-Best.

all boiudfide transactions enteredinto more than two calendar months
befqre the date- and issuingthe commission against the bankiupt, and
'all executions and attachments-against his'lands or chattels bond jfde
executed oilevied more than two "calendarmonths before the issuing
of the commissions," are made valid,-" notwithstanding
prior'act
of bankruptcy, provided-the jarties had no notice of it."
Our bankrupt law has this proviso in the 2d section (1st proviso):
"That al dealifi.g and Iransactions by and with the bankrupt, bond
fie made and entered into more than two months befor the petition,
filed against him or-by him, shall hot be invalidatedby this-act, provided that the other party.1o any guch.deali- or tramctions had
no notice of aprior act of bankruptcy-, or of-the intention of the bankrupt to take th6 benefit of this act."
These provisoes hard no bearing'upgn.thequestions involved. No
refetence is here made to any executions' or 'attachments, as in the
English statute, but they are left to be governed by the last proviso
of the 2d section.
The binding -effect of writsof fiiffacias in England, by the common'law, was fromi the teste, by the-statutes df-Kentucky it is from
the deli'rery to the sheriff: but in the character of this binding effect
there is believed to bie no other distinction but in respect of the time
of its commencement. It xnaybe proper then o learn-what. was the
course of adjudication by the English courts upon this question. In
Cooper v. Chitty, 2 .W. Black. 65, 1 Burr. 20, it is said if a sheriff
take goods of a bankrupt in execution after the act of bankruptcy
and-before commission issued, and sell them after the commission,
trover will lie ag"ainst him.
Again,- the sheriff seized the goods of a defendant under afteri
adaes, and sold and -delivered them to tlie judgment creditor, in
satiIaction of the -debt, -after a secret: ct f bankruptcy committed
by the defendant, but before the "issuin'g.of -a commission against
him: held, that the seizure anudsale ote
goods was a 'rongful
conversion, for whic- the sheriff was-liable in an action of trover at
the suit of the assignee 6.bsequently chosefi. Balme n. Hutton,
3 M. & Scott, 1, 9 Bingh. 471, 1 C. &-. g62; reversing S. C.
Tyr. 17, 2 C. &J. 19, -2 Y. &J. 101,'held by'seven judges K. B.
and C: P.,(Gaselie, J., dissentient.); Price v. Jelyar, 1 B h . 597,
1 M. & P. 641; S, P. Porter v. Starkie,.1 Mt & S. 260; Blog- v.
Phillips, 2 Camp. 129.
Farther, in Lazarus v. Waithman, 5 Moore, 313, where a trade r
committed an act of bankruptcy on the 9th November, and the
sheriff took hjs goods in execution on.the 15th November,. and sold
them on the 21st December, and a commission issued on'the 23d,
and an assignment made on the 6th January following, it was held,
"that the assignee might maintain frover against the sheriff," although
he had sold before the assignment .was made, as the bankrupt's proVoDL. U11.-5
K2
"I

-

114

, SUPREME. COURT.
Savage's Assigned id. Bst.

perty.vested in him by such assignment from the act of bankruptcy
by relation.
. These authorities are deemed sufficient to. show that the binding
effect of an-executiqn 6rom its date, in England, was not such a's to
give the execution ;'creditor any lien or preference over other creditors, unless the execution was in fact 'levied before the act of
bankruptcy; and if not levied, the decree in bankruptcy, by'relation,
reached back, and effectually passed all the rights of th4 bankrupt
to the assignee, as they evisted at ihe time of the'commission of the
act of bankruptcy. And there .is believed t6 be nothing in otir
bankumpt law which requires that it should receive a different interpretation from the English statutes in this yarticular. The action of
some creditor.was necessary to bring about the decree in bankruptcy;
it i, therefore, the effort of the credito, not of the defendant in the
execution, which brings about the decree, The investiture of the
rights of the debtor in the assignee -is the act -of the law, and the
efect of the action -of one or more creditors, for his own benaefit and
that of Pther creditois; and, the result of this conclusion is, that there
is a pro rala distribution of the bankrupt's property, rather thalrthe
appropriation of the Nhole to a single preditor.
Is the placing the execution in the hands of the sheiif a dealing
by andwith the bankrupt, to which the first proviso in. the 2d section.
has referenice? It is insisted that it is not. The bankrupt has, in
that matter, been passive entirely. There has been no act upon his
part, which is to acquire -sanctity by the lapse of sixty days, spoken
ofin this proviso.. But in this case sixty days had not elapsed; therefore, this-proviso is 'altogether inoperative.
Although when an executioa is levied, and a sale made, the title
of the purchaser reaches back, and is protected from any effort of
the debtor to pass -the title of the property, yet it is aot so when two
executions are out against the game defendant, in the hands of different office.rs--that which. is -first levied will hold, though it be
youngest in date; and a leyy nd sale under that which was first in
the hands of-the officer,.but last levied, will be ineffectual to pass
any titlet9 the purchaser. This is the law, as understoodby the
counsel, mncontests between execution creditors in Kentucky; -and
it is insisted that the case-of a pelitioning creditor in-bankruptcy is
?nalogousito that of an execution creditor, and that the filing of the
petitiofi by a creditor is.tantamount to the levy of an execution: -it
is a proceeding by which a lien is acquired by the assignee, for the
benefit of the general creditors, -and will oust any sujch inchoate
lien as-that relied on as iqing from*an execution not in fact levied.
The assignee had his election to sue the sheriff or to sue the purchaser of the land; and having elected to sue the purchaser of the
land, who was..the plaintiff in the execution levied .thereon, and
having shbwn title and right of possession, the judgmeit. shoud be
for the assignee,.for the possession of the land. '

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

115

Savage's Assignee v. Best.

French, for defendants.
The 4uestion on which the courtibelow divided was, whether the
title acquired by purchase under an execution which came to the
hands of the sheriff before the act of bahkruptcy, and was levied
after the act of bankruptcy, but before filing of petition in bankruptcy, related back to the time the execution came to the hands of the
sherif, -and overreached the titlebetter
of thetitle?
assigee, in bankruptcy; or,
was the title of thd assiinee the
The defendants rely bn the last .proiiso in the 2d section of the
bankrupt law, which protects "any liens, mortgages, or other securities' on property, real or personal, -which may be valid by the laws
of the states respectively."
That an execution, deliyered ;to- the proper officer, constitutes a
lien on, defendants' property, and that title acquired by purchase
under such execution relates back to the tinre, of delivery, is a.proposition most clearly settled by judicial. decision it Kentucky. "In
Million v. Riley, 1 Dana, 359, execution was delivered to sheriff,
June 16th, and-was levied August 5th. On the intermediate July
22d, defendant sold and conveyed. 'Held, that execution acquired
a lien from June 16th, and that purchaser's title related back to that
time. He recovered, therefore, in ejectment against the vendee of
execution debtor.
In Clagett v. Force, 1 Dana, 428, after. execution delivered, defendant removed a horse to jhidiana, and sold him there. The purchaser brought the horse to Kentucky, where he was levied on by.
" the-same execution, delivered- asnfforesaid.- Held, that the lien 'was
not lost by the removal to Indiana, and 5ale there; and, therefore,
that the horse was subject to the execution.
Orchard v. Williamson, .6 .J. J. MarshlOl, 561; after execution
delivered, defendant srapped a horse for another. Both were levied
on: and held, that both were subject, one by virtue' of th6 lien, and
the other as the property of defendant.
Addison, &c., v. Crow, 5 Dana, 274; 'levying an execution has
the effect of rendering the lien more specific, an of continuing the
lien and- authority of the sheriff; 'further than this, it had no greater
efficacy than placing the execution in tie hands of the sheriff Neither
the delivery nor the levy divests the defendant of title: Me may sell
and pass the title, still the execution is a lien or charge on the land,
and when completed by sale, the title relates back to the delivery,
and overreaches all intermediate conveyances.
Hood, &c., v. Winsatt, 1 B. Monroe: after execution delivered,
property was removed to another county. The execution was returned on the return day, and another one issued to the county to
which the property had been remov.:d, and was placed in the hands
of the sheriff of that county the same day. Held, that the lien was
continued from the delivery of the original execution.
Having referred to a few of the Kentucky cases, which hold, with-

116

SUPREME COURT.
Savage's Assignee v. Be-st.

out the shadow of doubt, that an execution delivered acquires a len,
I shall notice some of the decisions in which the above recited proviso of-the 2d section of the bankrupt law is brought under review.
The leading case is that of Ex parte Foster, 6 Law Reports) 55.
The questi6ii judicfally decided in.this cae was, that by the laws
of Massachusetts a party proceeding by attcbment did not-acquire a
lien on the attached propety untiljudgmffent, and that a petitioner in
bankruptcy could enjoin proceedings on the attachment, until if was
ascertainedwhether the bankrupt obtained his certifiqate. If he did,.
he could plead the certificate in bar of.the attaphinents, and thus defeat the inchoate lien.
The profession generally, however, understood the case'differently,
and supposed the'effect of it would be to cut off ll judgmenit liens,
execution liens even though leviedi venddrs' liens, &c., from idl
benefit under the proviso above- referred to. This case, thus understood, was -relied on as authority before other judges, and'first before
Judge Conkling, of New York, in: the' case, In the matter of Allen
and others, 5 Law Reports, 363,
In this case judgment creditors had attached choses in. action.
The court sustained the lien acquired by the attachment, evidently.
uilinin&to -a broader definition of the liens embraced by the proviso
in question than. was givencin tx pbrte Foster.
Th-, next case is Downer and others v: Bracket- 6 Law Reports,
392, before Judge Prentiss, of Vermont, He discusses the subject
ably andat Jarge, declaing'his opinion that eve 7 kindof lien, ualess
fraudulefit,.to wit, the vendor's lien, ttacbinent Hens, jiidgment liens
&c., are protected. P. 394, 396. Attachment binds at effectually as
judgment or execution-issued. - Judginent or eiecution issued binds
all the. property
of debtor,
v. Gold, 9execution
Mass. Rep.
sthe lien of judgment,
to show hat "Grosveror
209,'is r~ferred to,
sued, and attachment, all stand on the same ground.
In Haughton v. Eustie, 5 Law Reports 505; Judge Thompson,
lieps,
judgmentby
thatprotected
of Vermont,
decided He
thatexpresserthe
an attachmentopinion
lien was
the
in -question.
proviso
and such similar liens, were protected.
in ppr
greatly
wasJudge
the ease of Foster -of
. ., ended is evident from
Story
subsequentdecisions
theThat
plaifs, in matter of
Blachard,
and
of
Parker
tus, in thecase
Report, 351, after judgment, Judge Story
5 Law
Muggridge, &c.,lien
by attachment; beeause, after judgment there
maintained the
could e no: day in court-to plead the discharge. He also expressed
nee by the proviso in
protected
the opinioin th~t judgment liens
.question.
mnattet of Cook, 5 Law Reports, 443 Judge Story
In the ese,ue
oisunexpressed surprise that the case of Foster had been'so much
erederstood, and in this latter case-sustains the lien of the attaching
ditors, who had obtained judgment, declaring that this lien was equi-

JA NUARY TERMi .1845.

117

Savage'es 'Assignee I. Best.

-valent
the, commion law. judgment lie; adding, that
he never
I
I
doubted that that.lien was. rotected.
All the judge , then, tq vnose opinons I have referred, concede
that judgment liens are protected; and Judgh Prentiss places .judgment.liens and executions issued on the sime fobling.,
I will 'endeavour, frther, to show thlt the lien i execution issued
is fully equivalent to.the udgment lien.Land by the c6mmon law, as it originally stood, was not, except
under some peculiar circumstances, subjedt to the debts of the owner.
2"Bac. Abr.'tit..Ecutdion A, 685-: 3 Black. 418.
The judgment lien n !Thnd'arises "from the construction of the
statute of Edward i, chap. i8, commonly called the statute of West,
minster. See.Ex parte Foster, 5 Law Reports, 63, 67.
"It was b this statute the eldit was given, by virtue of which the
judgment creditor has his election to take a feri faca-ifor thesale
Qf -goo& and chattels; or the eligit-to extend the goods and chattels
andone-half 'the land.. See 2 Bac. Abr. tit. Biecudti, A,.686;
3 Black. 418.
This statute does not expressly giae any lien, but only aufiorizes
the credithr, at his election, to. sue out the: eligit directed to the
sherif, and the command of the writ as prescrbedis, that the sheriff
shall levy the debt of the goods andi chattels, and one-half the land.
See form of writ, 2-Bac. Abr. tit. Execution,.C, 710.
'It is .by-constr~etion of this' statute, the-writ -relates lack. to the
judgment, and oveirreaches all intermediate enuumbrances.
In like manner, at commonlaw, theferifacias, which commanded
.the sheriff to levy the_debt of the goods and chattels, related back to
its teste, and bound from that time..- 2 Bac. Abr. tit. Execution-I,
733 ; as judgent§ did frcm time of judgme'nt, same title, 731,
By 29th Charles 2, the statute of frauds, (the same fr6m which
the Kentucky statute is copied,) executions-bnly bir from the time
they re delivered. 2 Bac..Abr. tit. Execution, I, 733.
. Judgments docketed, and executions delivered, are evidently, in
Bagpn, at the pages cited, (731, 733,) placed on the, same footing.
They seem to be pladed on the sam footingn
• 5 Law-Reports,
" a'eot,63
" of Foster,
.
~ otn , in the case
*~~~~~ 63, 67.
7
There are some 6ther striking analogies between judgments and
executions issued, which I:.will notice.
An execution) as conceded, does not vest a title until executed,
neither does a judgment. Ex parte Foster, 5 Maw Rep6its, 64.
Covenant of seismn is nbt broken by outstanding judgment. Sedgwick
v. Hollenback, 7"Johns. 380.
As between execution plaintifli, he that 'by superior diligence acquires the firt levy is preferred; so between judgments of the same
date, he that first sues *execution.and sells; acquires a-preference.
Adams v. Dyer, 8Johns. 350; Watterman, &c., v. Haskins, 11Jo~is.
230.

118

SUPREME COURT,
Savage.d Ass.ignee v. Best.

Sale under-junior execution, if first levied, would be valid; so is
sale under junior judgment. Sanford v. Roosa, 12"Johns. 162.
To conclude, then, the title of the assignee can only relate back to
the act of bankruptcy. The title of the defendants, as we have seen
by the cases of Million v. Riley, 1 Dana, 359; and Addison, &c., v.
Crowi 5 Dana, 274, relates back to the time the execution was delivered to the sheriff. This period being anterior to the act of bankruptcy, the title of the defindants is older than that of the plaintiff.
2d. All the authorities concurring in the opinion, that judgment liens are protected by the proviso in the 2d section, and the
analogies between the judgment lien and execution issued beirig so
striking, .1 would respectfully maintain, that the title of the defendants is also protected by the. proviso referred to.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a certificate of division between the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky, up6n the following statement:"C.Savage had the title to the land; the plaintiff claimed under-the
decree of his bankruptcy; the defendant, under a sheriff's sale under
an execution.
"The act of bankruptcy of Savage was committed on the 27th
April, 1842; the petition of his credifors was filed against him. in
the district court on the 25th day of June, 1842, and he was declared a bankrupt on the 26th October, 1842; the plaintiff was appointed the assig.ee, and thi is his title.
"An execution of fierifacias on a jidgment against the estate of
Savage was delivered to the- sheriff on the 9th April, 1842, before
. day
the act of bankruptcy, and was lvied on the land on the
of
,before the petition; but after the act of bankruptcy
the defendant purchased at the sheriff's sale, had his deed, and this
was his title.
'c The question -was, has the plaintiff, by the decree of bankruptcy
and its relation back to the act of bankruptcy, the elder and better
title; or has the defendaht,'by the prioi delivery of the execution
into the hands of the sheriff, and his levy of it, before the'petition
was led, the prior and superior title?"
The statute of Kentucky, upon this subject, provides "that no writ
offierifacias, or'other writ. of execution, shall bind the estate of the
defendant or defendants but from the time such writ shall be delivered to the sheriff, pr other proper officer, to be executed." According to the laws .of that state a judgment is not a Hem upon land,
and the real as Well as-personal estate is not bound until the process
of ekecution against the property of the defendant is delivered to the
officer. The que~ti6n to. be "determined is, whether the delivery of
thepfierifadas to the sherifftq betexecated created a lien on the property of the defendant, for tlh imount for which the execution was

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

119

Savage's Assignee v. Best

issued? If it did, the title of the defendant is the superior and.better title, and protected by the -last proviso in the 2d section of. the
act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United
States.
In construing the statute above mentioned, the decisions of the
courts of Kentucky have not been entirely uniform. In the case of.
Tabb v. Harris, 4 Bibb, 29 decided in i816, it was held, that the
delivery to the sheriff*created no lien on the property of the defendant. In a subsequent case, however, in the same volume, Daniel v.
Cochrane's administrator, 4"Bibb, 532, decided in 1817, the court,
in delivering their opinion, speak of the lien of a fieri facias, from
the time it was delivered to the sheriff to be executed, as if it were
a known and settled principle of law in that state. But this was not
the main point in that case, which turned upon-the question, whether
the execution continued to bind the property of the debtor until'the
judgment was satisfied. The court held that it did not, ;and that the
lieft ceased- after the return day of the execution, if it was not levied
before. The question, as to the lien acquired by the -delivery to the
-officer, again arose in. the case of Kilby v. Haggin, 3 J. J. Marshall,
208, and, in this case, which was decided in 1830, the doctrine in
the case of Tabb v. Harris was fully sustained; and it was directly
and distinctly. decided, that the delivery to the sheriff created no -lien
against any other creditor, and that an execution afterwards placed in
the hands of the sheriff, if first levied upon the property, was entitled
to a preference.
But in the case of Million v. Ryley, 1.Dana, 360, decided in, 1833,
the court held, that the plaintiff obtained a lien by the deliver to the
.sheriff; and that the title acquired by the purchaser, when the execution was regularly levied and the property sold, related back to the
delivery to the officer; and they speak of this lien as secured to the
creditor-by the Kentucky statute. In 1837 this subject again came
before the court, in the case 'of Addison and others v. Crow and
others, 5 Dana, 274, and in this case the question appears to have
been very fully considered, and the case of Million v: Ryley was
referred to and commented on, and the principle decided in it in
relati&n to the lien of an execution re-affirmed. In this case the
court say "the levy of aferifaciasupon the land of the debtor un.doubtedly renders the..lien 'more specific, and being a necessary step
in the executioi of a writ, completes the authority of the officer to
sAll, and has the further effect of 'givin continuance both to the authority and the lien, which would otherwise expire with the returnof the writ. And we do not perceive any necessity or reasonable
ground for acribing to it any other efficacy than this;" and in page
277 of the same case, the court again say, "no reason appears tot
attributing" to a levy any efficacy except a one step t6wards the consummation of the lien arising from the delivery of the execution to
the officer."

120

SUPREME COURT.
United States . Gear.

This is the latest de -ision in the courts of the state.to which we
have been referred, oa of which -we are.aware, and, as we have already-said, it appears.to have been well considered. And whatever
doulits might before have been entertained, we njust, under the au-,
thority of this case;xegard it as the settled law of the state, that the
creditor obtains a lien upon the property of hils'debtor by the delivery
of the flerifaciasto the sheriff; that it acquires no-additional validity
or force by being actually levied, but that the lien is as absolute before the levy as-it is afterwards, and continues .while the procss.remains in,the hands of the sheriff to be executed.
In thi view of the subject- it is unnecessary to examie-o'r to remark upon the. caies which have been decided in. other states or in
England, because the -qAstioh depends altogether upon the, law of
Kefitucky. - And as y'the laws of that state a~fteri facias, when
delivered to the "sheriff, is a lieji upon the'property of the debtor
while it continues in the haiids of h6 officer to be executed, the creditor is not deprived- of this lien by an: act of banluptcy on the part
of the debtor committed before the levy is made; but aftr the execution is in the hands of the sheriff. In the case bef6re us, therefore,
the, court are of-opinion that the defendant, by the prior delivery of
the execution and the subsequent levy and sale, has the priot and
superior title, aid We'shall certify-acordingly.'to the Circuit Court.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF,-"v. HEZEHIAH H.

GEAP, DEFENDAT.

-Tm

H. GAR,

Ui*rD STATES, COMPLAINANT,
ANT

v. HzzEEuIA

DEFEND-

The act of Congress entitled 'An act to create additional land distribts in the
states of Illinois dnd Missouri, and in the territory north of the state ofnli.
nois," approved June 26th, 1834, does not require the President of the United
States to cause to be offered for sale the publie'lands pontaining lead mines
-situated inthe-Iand districts created by said act.
T)ne said act does not require the President to cause.said lands, containing lead
mines, to be sold, because the 5th section of the act of the 3d March, 1807,
entitled "An act making provisidn fop the disposal of the public lands situated
between the United States military tract and the Connecticut reserve, and for
other purposes," is still in full force .
The lands containing lead mines in the Indian a territory, or in that part ofit made
into new land districts by-the act'of the26th June; 1834, are not subjecttrnder
A.nyof the pre-emption laws which have been passed by Congress, to a pre.
emption by settlers upon the public lands.
The 4th secti6n of the act of 1834 does in no way-repeal any part.of ihe 5th
section of the act of the 3d March, 1807, by which the lands containing lead
mines wexe reserved for the future disposal of -the United States, by wilich
grants for lead-mine tracts, discovered to be such befoe they may be bought
from the United States, are declared to be fraudulent lnd null, and which au

