THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY TERM, 1845

•ANDREW ALDRIDGE AND'OTHE IS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. NATHANIEL

F. WILLIAMS.
The act of Congress, of March 2d, 1833, commonly called the Compromise Act,
did not, prospectively, repeal all duties upon imports afler the 30th of June,
1842.
Repealing only such parts of previous acts-as were inconsistent with itself, it
left in force, after the 80th of June. 1842, the same duties whlch were levied
on the 1st of June, I 12.
Duties were-directed by the act of 1833 to be levied according 10a home valuation, "under such regulations as nay be prescribed by law." This phrase
embraces all regulations lawfully existing at the time thebome valuation
went into operation, whether made before or after thd passage of the act of
1833.
And the regulations established in the 7th and 8th sections cf the act of 1832
are sufficient for the correct performance of the duty.
The regulations prescribed by the secretary of the Treasury, und a power
given to him by the 9th section of the act of 1832, are also "regulationa
prescribed by law"
The court, in construing/an act, will not consider the motives, or reasons, or
opinions, expressed by individual member of Congress, in debate, but *ill
look, if necessary, to the public history of the times in which itwas passed.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error, from the Cicuit Court
of the United States for the District of Maryland, and involved the
construction of the act of Congress of March 2d, 1893, commonly
called the Compromise Act. Williams was the collector of the
port of- Baltimore, and the plaintiffis in error were importing mer
chants, who sued to ecover duties paid under protest.
The title of the act was (" An act to modify the act of the 14th
of Ily, 1832, and all other acts imposing duties on imports."
The 1 tsection Vtovided that from and after the 31st of December, 1833, in all cases where _.aties shall exceed twenty per centum
on the value thereof, one-tenth part of such excess shall be deducted;

from-and after the 31st of December, .1835, another tenth-part; from
-

VoL. -1H-2

9

10

SUPREME COURT.
Aldridge et a.

v. Williams.

and after the 31st of December, 1837i another tenth part; from and
after the 31st of December, 1839, Another- tenth part; from and after
thd 31st of December, 1841, one-half of the residue of such excess
shall be deducted; and from and after the 30th-of June, 1842, the
other half thereof shall be deducted.
- The 2d section raised the duty upon certain woolleis from five
to fifty per centum.
The 3d section was as follows:
"That, until the 30th day of June, 1842, the duties imposed by
existing laws, as modified by this 'act, shall remain and continue to
be collected. -And from and after the day last aforesaid, all duties
upon imports shall be collected in ready iioney; and all credits,
now allowed-by law, in the payment of duties, shall be, and hereby
are, abolished; and such duties shall be laid for the purpose of*
raising such revenue as may be necessary to an idonomical administration of the government; and from and after the day'last aforesaid, the -duties required to be paid by law on goods, waies, and
merchandise, shall be assessed upon. the value thereof at the pbrt
whe'e/the saare shall be entered, under such regulations as may be
prescribed by law."
The 4th ection exempted certain articles from duty'duringthe
interval between the 31st of December, 1833, and the 30thof June,.
1842.
The 5th section exem~pted certain articles from duty after the 30th
of June,.1842, and concluded as follows: "And all' iaiports on
which the first section of this act may operate, and all articles now
admitted td entry free from duty, or paying a less rate of'duty than
twenty-per centum, ad valojem, before the'said 30th day' of June,
1842, from an&after that day may be admitted to entry, subject tc
such duty, not bxceeding twenty per centum, ad valorem, as shall
be provided for-b'y law."
The 6th and last section was as follows:
11That se much of the. aft of the 14th of July, 1832, or of any
other act as is inconsistent with this act, shall be, and the same js
hereby repealed: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall
be so - constiued as, to prevent the passage, prior ot subseqaent to
the said 30th day of June, 1842, of 'any -act, gr acts,.from time to
time, that ay be necessary to detect, preent, or punish evasions
of the duties on 'imports imposed by law,-nor to prevent the passage of any act prior to--the 30th day. of June., 1842, in the contingency eithtr of excess or deficiency of ievenue, altering the'rates
of duties on articles which, by the aforesaid" act of 14th of July,
1832, are 'subject to a less rate of duty than. twenty per centum, ad
valorem, in such manner as not to exceed that rate, and'so as to
adjust-the revenue to either of the said contingencies."
'The statement of facts 'agreed upon in. the court below was as
follows:-

JAN,'UARY TERM, 1845.

11

-Aldridge et al. v. Williams.

"In this case it is admitted that, on the 20th August, 1842, the
plaintiffs in this cause imported into *the port of Baltimore, froin
Liverpool, in England, a large quantity of-goods, wares, and merchandise, and on the same day entered-the same at-the custom-house
in the port of Baltimore; .that. the following is a frue entry and list
of said goods, their quality, character, and value.
. (Here followed a -listof the goods, with their value, amounting to
£8254 16s.)
a/djustment..
Value at Baltimore per appraisement
- $44,346 00
20 per cent.-am't duties pai collector under protest
8,869 20
Value per ihvoice, -£ str. 8254.16-0, or 20 per cent. .....
..
Duty per home valuation Per invoice.value - .V-

-

- ,

-

-

-

-

-

$36,1651 00
7,330 20
$8,869 20
7,330 20
1,5L39 00.

"Tlat, on their entry, 'he defendant exacted andyrequired of the
plainiffi to pay, as. 'and for duties oh said goods, the sum of eight
thousand, eight hun'dredt aid sixty-nine dollars and vo cents, which
the plaintiffs first refused to pay, but iot being able -oget their goods
without paying the same, they did pdy the same under protest; that
the value of the goods, by the true invoice cost, adding freight and
other charges, was thirty-six thqusand six hpndred and lfty-one
dollars, ($36,651 ;) that the home valuation in Baltimore, as fixed
by the appraisers, was forty-four thousand three hundred and fortysix dollars, ($4,346,;) t*at-the duties upon the" invoice .cost'and
charges would have been sev.en. thousand three hundred and thirty.
dollars and twenty cents, ($7;,330 20.).
"It is furtlier agreed, that the duties, so collected as aforesaidbyihe
defendant, wore exacted under, -and in pursuances
of, rders end
regulations fromthe Treasury Department of the government of, the
Uniited States, and with the approbation, end sa nctiou, and direction
9f the President of-the. United States;'And it is also admitied, that the amount exacted as aforesaid'by
defendant -of'plaintils, and b.hy tem paid him a~j aforesaid, was deposited, by the defendant in the Merchants? Bank of Baltimore, to
the credit of the Treasurer of the United States, on the29th August,
1842.
"It is also agreed, that thq court may infer, fromthe facts hereinbefore agreed .upon, whateve ,ajury might infer,.. "
"If, upon the foregoing statement of. facts, the co. Asall be.of.
opini that the plaintiffs are, entitled to recover the above sum of
eight thousdnd eight hundred and sixty-nine dollars and.twenty

12

S.UPREME COURT.
Aldridge et mL v. Williams.

cents, ($8,869 20,J or any part thereof, then judgment td be entered for the plaintifls, for the amount so determined to be due, with
interest; if they-should be of opinion that the plaintiffi are not entitled to recover t all, then judgment to, he entered for defendant.
"Itis -f-ther agreed, that this court enter up a judgment upon theaforegoing case stated, for, the defendant, and that the plaintiffs be
at liberty to appeal, or prosecute a writ of error to the like effect
and purport, as if the above facts were stated in a bill of exceptions,
and judgment rendered upon them for the defendant.
.ccAnd it is farther agreed,-that either party shall be at liberty, in
the- Supreme Couty to- raise and argue, in that court, any points or
questions which, it may appear to that -court, could be raised upon
the.aforegoing facts.
REVERDY Jom01 ofor

2Pth4

'ov~vber, 1842.

fPli7difs,

Z. CoLws LEE, U.& .Rttorn .?'

The court below gave judgment for the-defendint, and a writ of
error brought the proceedings up. to. this court.
B. Johrsoni for t.e piainflfin- error..
X7lson, attorney, genera4, for the[efeildant.

IL Johnson made three pointsi
1. That when the duties -were,-exactti of, th plaiatiff.by'.the defendant, there was no law imposing a:y duies.ipomsueh an importatn.2. That- if there was, there was no law- authorizing their beiig
levied 6n- the home valuation, -and that 'the plaintiff is entitled .to
recover the diffeterice stated in the record of $1539.
3.-hatif such-duties were in whole,*or'in part, exacted without
law, the amouht nay be recovered in 'n action -for money.had and
received, upon'the facts of this case...
He said that the jifdgmeiit below was proformia,and the question
iaised by the first point was now for the first-time bjought before any
court. The amount in all the cases -is.about a million and a half.
Before 1842; all duties were levied upon foreign Valuation. There
are two constructions of the Constitution; one, that uinder it, there.
is a power to collect-revenue for- the sake of the revenue only; theother, for protection.. The act of, 1.833 vas a compromise betWeen
these two. Each class was suppbsed to surrender something. -The'
law was in ided to *terminate at a certain period, viz., 30th June,'
1842, and the question is, what was the condition of the revenuesystem after that day. Was there, any law to impose duties? We
say not. From the history of the act and the act itself, we infer,
that it was the intention of its framers to leave the subject wholly to
Congress after 1842, The former attorney-general decided other%ise,and gave two opinions; but, upon examining them, we do not

JANUARY T ERM 1845.

13

Aldridge et al. v. Williahis.

find that clearness of conviction which he'always had when clearness was attainable. He evidently doubted upon the subject. The
secretary of the Treasury differed from him in opinion. The Committee of the House of Representatives reported unanimously that
after the 30th of.June,
there was no authority to collect duties at
1842. What -s the construction of the act, taken by itself, apart
from its history? The title is, "An act to modify," &c., showing
an intention to change the entire system, and make it just what this
as if all other acts were specially repealed, The
law would leave it,
first two sections provide-for the period anterior to June, 1842, with:.
odt sayinig what shall be done afterwards; the third says, that, until
that day, other laws, a* modified by this act, shall continue in force.
Congress, theiefore, was not content with leaving the collection of
duties as a matter of inferende, but gave an explicit direction that
they should be collected, showing its opinion to be hat unless there
was an express authority granted to the executive power to collect
government would not'iave it
the modilied
brauh
1842,
and s~.ysduty,
thatthat
credits
shall ofhe
be e applies
upori after
what Jupe,
is the
toBut
a time
all. The remainder of the sectionabolished.
s part ofte
is it to be? for an:~conomical
or be
how
much
to be "Duties
calculated,
payment
administration
act
is silent.
shall
of the government."
laid
only
Butsufl~ient
the amount wanted from
year
year canin nly
be determined
not beto foreseen
the yeai comes, anid could
1833.
There is awhen
constant
the discretion of. future Congresses. Who reference in the act to
upon the amount which would be consistentwas al ayso decide
with an economical
administration? Not the executive, nor
the judicary, but the
framers of the law well knew that
alone coul-d sete
oongress
the
annually recurring question. . What might
be economy at one time,
might not at another. The at says
n
such duties shall :be laidf.&c.,"
,usng prospective terms. Againi
e he aduties required to be
paid by law, - ' implies that the law is to be
the phrase, "shall . be assessed, &c., under passed thereafter. So,
such regulations as may
be prescribed by law." The object of the
law is quite appaemit
It was to give quiet to the country for nine
years, and then, the
government
was to go on
amount of expenliture
under.an
administration,
being
the
settledeconomical~
by the then
Congress. The
only mode of assessing the duties then known, was to take the
foreign
valuation;
frauds 'domestic
were practised
and
n order
undr ih~t method 3
furtherbut
to protect
industry,
a home valuation
was substituted. But as this would be different'in
.the. resective
,cities, the mode of produtheg uniformity
1ds-lefs
to the
ativ*
boeg
and not the executive power.Th 4th section enlarge the list of free articles.
The 5th.provides also for free articles,
imports, &., may be admitted at such dutyand then says that '-' all
asCsalj be 1rovided for
by law.
Why was that clause put in? -kThe revious
tart of the
B

14

StTPR'EME. COtRT.
Aldridge et a]. v.-Wrilliams.

law substitutes cash for. credit, and home for foreign valuation.
Supposing these to be positive enactments, what does the qlause in
question -enact? No one -knew better than the franer of the law
that it contained nothing which could be enforced by t e judiciary.
But it was a time when all parties united for great ojects; and
though they knew that. it would bd idle.to attempt to-ttmmel and
tie up future Congresses, yet'they could chalk out a broad line, and
rely upon the same patriotism which animated them, for its being
followed out. The-limit was, that only such an amount of revenue
slibuld be raised as was necessary for an. 6conomical administration
ot-the govemment, and the duties were to be collected "under such
regulations as may'be prescribed by law." Could they .suppose,
when they used this language, that the regulations already existed
upon. the statute-book? In the latter part of this section it is said,
that importations may be admittedupon such duties not exceeding
twenty per- cent. ",as may be provided -by law." What: does the
-Liovernment say? That twenty per ceit. mist be paid, and the dis-cretion as to a lesser amount is.gone. ' The result of the argument

will be, that the free articles'must~pay twenty per cent.. also,-because
the government says this is 'the duty. If there was any duty at all
after June, 1842, the exeeutive igit deduce his right to collect it
from the 5th section, for -no preceding s~ction ixes the amount.
But the 5th secti6n ircludes more articles than those paying upwards
- of twenty per cent., and there is no -process of reasoning by which
one class ca-n be taken out-and the other left. - How, then, are free
articles to get in-? The act shows that it was to.be done by subsequent legis=in. "B'ut if any articles can be considered as free 'by
the.op.eration of the act itself, the same reading will include piotected articleis, and. bring them in free-also. 'The words "as shall be
Provided'for by tlw" ride-overithe Vhole section. If the .attomeygeneral supposes that. these words'-mean'-such regulations as the
6xlcutive might make under prior laws, it appears to me that he
cQnifounds the--mode of-assessing. the duty with the power -to assess
it. '-The 6pinion of the late attorney-genefal, -takes this ground.
Suppo~e there was a prior law giving -to, the Treasury Department
the power of niaking. regulations- for the Cdolletion of the tax; this'
onlyi reaches one- of the two things that must be - done, viz. 1st, a
tax is to be imposed, and, 2d, the mode of collecting it-is to be
pointed but.. But a power' to carry out the'second branch f-the
proposition does not give to the-executive, an- authoxity to name the
amount of the tax nor the articles upon .which it shall be levied.
The ihfposition of a to& is a high exercisd of legislative power, and
Congress could -not vest the executive -wth it. The act states
twenty per'cent. as a rhaximum, bit, within that, there is a disdretion
'to be exercised by Congress.. -There are .three classes of articles
recog .ed in -the bill;. one paying more than twenty per cent. duty,
oneiess, 'adthe third entirely free; Are- all. these to be taxed

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Aldridge et al.,v. Williami.

'15

equally .th twenty per cent. ? If so, the language of the 1st section would have been different from what it is.
2. As to the history of the act, derived from the Journal of the Senate and Register of Debates.
The 3d section now has the "1domestic valuation under regulations
to be prescribed by law." It was so in the original bill. 9.vol.
Reg. Deb. part 1, pages 711-113.
Mr.,iDckinsbn proposed to strike out "by law," and insert " the
secretary of the Trea§uryj with the approbationt of the .President,".
Mr. Clay said, ".leave it to a future Congress to legslate on the subject of the amendment." He "doubted th-e constitutional power to
leave it to the executive;" and again, I'hc would not give them the
power, for if they were opposed to' protection," &c.

The amendment was rejected by nearly a unanious vote. This.
court has a right to look at the history ofthe blIn
the discussion.
of the liower -to create a Bank of the United States, the history of the
country has cQnstantly beefi referred to; and so with regard to the
power.of states to make insolvent laws. If the executive had the
"poWer now contended for, it is because Congress failed t6 keep -it
away when it- intended'so to. do. If the ground had been taken
during the discussion of.the bill, which is now assumed on the vart
,of the .gov;i1ztnt, would the Senhte have acted as they did?
2dpoint." If we are not entitled to the. whole, we' ar to the diffe r
ence between the home and foreign valuation. Suppose the twenty
per cent. duty is to stand; if Congress.were to regulate the mode"of
assessment, and there is no law pointin out the manner of adopting
the home valuation, the invoice. must be the guide. The secretary
of the Treasuy issued two. different. regulatidns; I. That the appraisers should ascertain the burrent market value of the aricles, and
charge twenity per cent. upon it. - This, of course, included the first
cost, duty, charges, and profit. All the .enter into the cash value, and
a duty upon the aggregate compelled.the'importer to pay a duty upon

the very duty itself.

2, The secretary directed that the amount of

duty.should be deducted fron the aggregate, and twenty per cent.
charged. upon the residue, This plan might or night not have been
just to the government. The secretary seems to have found so
much difficulty in supplying the want of legislation, that this court
can scarcely feel itself warranted in sayingthat legislation existed.
3d point. -It is contended by the' other side,'that, even allowig"
that this money was improperly exacted, an action for moniey had
and received'will not lie against,the collector. The record says tlat
th plaintifTs could not get. their goods without paying, and did accordingly pay, under a protest. This protest was notice to the collector not to pay over to the Tresury. That he was bound to pay.
over, begs the whole -question- because, if the government had noright to exact it, the collector was..only an ordinary agent, and bound
by the same rules. The suit was.brought on the day after the money

161

SUPREME 'COURT.'
Aldridge et aL r. Williams.

was paid over, and this.circumstance is thought by'the opposite counsel to shake a difference, and t6free the collector from 'responsibility.
.But.if the pendency of a suit would protect the collector, the existene of a nbtice would do- the same thing. An action for "money
had-and received" is the proper -one, in all cases like this. If the
other-side are right, all that the collector has to do.is to.pay over the
money immediately to the Treasury, and we must then fight it out
with the government. But -thiss not the intention of the law. The
moment that the collector received our money,. our right of action
commenced, and notling that h6 caan do can divest us of thie right
which has accrued.
-Nelson, attorney-genera., for defendant,- made the two following.points:. 1. That the amount of duties as aforesaid, paid bythe-plpaintiff
in
error, upon the goods, wares, .and merchandise imported by them
into the port of-$altimore, was properly demanded by the .defendant
in error,- under the provisions of the act, of' the 2!. of March;- 1833,
entitled "An adt to modify the"act of the 14th of July, one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-twQ, and all other acts imposing duties on
imports."
2. That.even assuming the same to have been demanded without
authority of law, the -action for money had and received, instituted
by 1e plaintiffs against-the defendant iij error in the court below, was
not maintainable.
The first proposition jnv6lves two inquiries:
1st. "Whether any duties were, collectable .under-the act of the 2d
of March, 1833?7
2d. If so collectable, by what rule were they to be-ascertained and
assessed?
1st. It is admitted that prior to, the act of March, 1833, the goods
in quetion were subject to a duty of more'than twentyper cent., by
virtue. of the act of 14th July, 1832, to be assessed according to the
rules prescribed by'hat act. The question then is, how fpr have the
provisions of the act of' 1832 been " ehangod by that of 183.3? All
are'familiar with the nature and. caiuge of the Compromise Act. "It
bears upon its face marks of a friendly spirit between the advocates of
two very different classes -of opiions. As a statute, it is singularly
constructed. It states politidal propositions, promises money, prohibits money, but enacts few things' But the only question before us
is, to what extent has it changed the law of 1832? -Itcdnsist of six
sections, the 2d and 4th of. which are not- material- to the present
*iqmry..
The lst section carries out the purpose ' indicated in the preamble,
and provide .ttiat from- and. after the BOth of June, 1842, a duty of
twenty per cent. is to be collected upon all goods -imported into-the,
United -States, and embraced within its terms. "tdeals only with'the

3ANUARY .TERM, 1845.

17

Aldridge et al. v. Williams.
excess above twenty per"cent, and provides.for its gradual dimmution; but the dutv then existing, of twenty per cent., is no where
repealed. Reducing it to twenty is not repealing the twenty. The
section is therefore equivalent to a frsh and positive enactment that
a duty of twenty per cent. should be collected after June, 1842. But
it is thought that this effect of the 1st section is contr6lled by the
subsequent sections. Let us examine them seriatim.
The 3d contains ive distinct propositions, viz.:
1. That ilntil the 30th day of June, 1842, the dutiespiposed by
the 1st section shall retiin nd corititie to be~collected.
%. That all duties theieafter shall be collected in readymoney, and
all credits abolished.
3. That all duties shall be laid for the purpose of raising revenue
nec&ssary to an economical administratiQn of the government.
4. That a home valuition shall be adopted.
5. That the regulations for the assessment shall be provided-br law.
It is said.thal the first of these propositions limits the-duration of
the act to 30th- June, 1842, and then repeals it. ' But it is merely
declaratory of the existing law, and provides that the mQde an4 manner of collecting the duties should continue the same until 'June,
1842, when a new mode and manner of collection was to be pursued.
It does not repeal the 1st section either expressly or by implication;
because,;if such had been the intention of-the legislatme,-the expressionis used woild: have, been co-extensive :with those -of the 1st section; and the language of the 1st section provided for the state of
things after June, 1842, whereas-that of the clause which is said to
repeal it, stops short at that day. Besides, the provision is merely
affirmative in rdgard to.the act of 1832, which was in its terms a per-.
petual act. -An affirmative provision never repeals, where a permanent law is re-enacted for a time. Sir Thos. Raymond, 397.
2d proposition. This clause is operative 'by the mere force of its
terms--pprro - rigore. It establishes the system of cash, arid abolishes, credit dutiUs, but the duties upon *hich it is to .operate are
those provided for in the 1st and 2d sections. It does not profess
to change-them in amount, but merely the mode in -which they
shall be paid; and can be read'in connection with the 1st sectibn so
as to be perfectly consistent with it, except that it repeals the credit
system.
3d proposition. This is a mbre declaration or promise of What
should be done by future'legislatures--of itself inoperative. It varies
no duty; abolishes none; establishes none. It therefore leaves the
1st section in full operation.
4th proposition. This establishes a principle -and .enacts a law,
viz.: that the duty shall be calculated on the value of the goods at'
the place of importation, after 30th of June, 1842. Its effect is to
repeal the mode of ascertainment provided in the act of 1832. It
was a strong provision for the protection of home industry, and jeoVOL. M.-3
B2

Is

SUPREME COURT.
Aidridge et al. v. Williams.

pardect the bill. But does it repeal the 1st section? Or does it not
rather recogonise the continued existence of the duties laid in that
seetion? The duties are to be collected in cash. What duties? Not
those thereafter to be laid, but those then imposed.
.5th proposition. This points to the mode in which such home valuation shall be established,'by directing that the "repulations shall
be prescribed by law'" I is said that the existence of these regulations is a pre-requisite to the power of colleting. Assuming this to
be so, what would be the legal effect? Only to leave the duties to
be ascertained as they were by the act of 1832. If this clause should
become inoperative-by lefislative omission, it cannot repeal the other
provisions of the act.
fhis will be considered more particularly
hereafter. The result is, that the third section of the act, when analysed into its five propositions, mcdified the act of 1832 in but twoparticulars, viz.: by introducing cash duties and a home valuation.
The 4th section, as has already been stated, can have no bearing
upon the question, as it is temporary in its character.
us proceed
to~the 5th
of the act.
repeal
the
1stLet
section?
It provides'
onlysecticn
that Congress
may Does
reduceit the
whole
dities below twenty per cent., in case
there should be a redundancy
of money in the treasury, or raise them to twenty upon free articles,
in case there should be a deficiency. How is this inconsistent with
the 1st section? It made no change in it, but only reserves a power
which exis ed without such reservation. We must harmonize these
sections, if possible: The rule which requires us to do so is sowell
known that it is useless to cite authorities e support of it. A reser-vation of power to legislat -is not legislation:.
would be extraordinary that in a case Qf mutual concession, all duties ould be
repealed, and the manufacturing interest left without any protectio
-It

at all.
The 6th setion provades "that o much of the act of 1832, or
of any other act, as is inconsistent with this act, is- hereby repealed."
The rate of duties differing from the act of 1833 the credit on
dusertes t
ieonle-Tes mawcree
e
by theact of 1833, are inonsistent with this act, and necessarily repealed by it. But the provisions of the act which merely contemplate future legislation, and
yt enact nothing in themselves, such as that "duties shall be laid
for the purpose of raising necessary revenue only;" that goods paying less6than twenty per cent. ad valorem, may be admitted at such
duty, not exceeding twenty per cent., as .may be provided by law;"
that "the duties shall be assessed upon the valuethereof at the port
of entry,
i nder such regulations as may be prescribed by law;" (under the assuimption before- stated,) are inconsistenit with no previously

existn lahw.
A promise
to existing
pass a law
change
the Tateit of
duty,.is
not inconsistent
with an
law.Jto
soas
to repeal
before
the promise
is
e"eute . The future legislation contemplated has not been had;

JANUARY TERM. 1845.

19

Aldridge et al. v. Williams.

the only thing done is by the act of the 11th of September, 1841,.
which provided that all articles imported after the 30th of September,
1841, which paid less than twenty per cent. or came free, shouldbe
subject to a duty of twenty per cent., with certain exceptions.
Let us now return to the consideration of the fourth proposition
of the 3d section, respecting the home valuation, and inquire whether
the power to collect duties upon it did not exist under the acts of
1832 .and 1833, notwithstanding the omission of Congress to legislate as to regulations.
Omitting the qualification of the clause, was it not susceptibl of
execuffon under the act of 18-32?
1. The 7th section of the- act of. 1832 contains a principle
which is as applicable to home as to foreign valuation. It directs
the actual value to be appraised by the collector, a.id provides for
duties then or thereafter imposed. Value is what a thing is worth
in the market, and the law that provides for ascertaining it by the
judgment of appraisers in one, place, lays down a principle by
which it may be ascertained everywhere.
2. By the 15th section a rule of ascertainment is prescribed by
adding insurance.
3. But supposing these sections insufficient, still the 9th section
of the act vests the secretary of the Treasury, under the direction of
the President, with power. to prescribe regulations, &c. Doc. 261,
pp. 6, 7; Executive Doe., 27th Cong., 2d sess.,.Yol. 5, opinion
of Mr. Legar6.
But suppose that regulations by Congress were-necessary, instead
of being made by'the secretary. They would only be~directory to
gvem the officers of the customs. The principle is established by
the law. Regulations are not wanted to settle the rights of merchants or the amount of the tax, for the affiount is fixed at twenty
per cent., and this court decided in Wood's case that merchants
must pay the amount of duty whether the custom-house officers
acted rightly or not. The record admits that twenty per cent. was
fairly paid on a home valuation. A duty thus imposed by the law
becomes a personal debt. 13 Peters, 493. The government could
recover the amount although the officers gave up the goods without
any bond; and money thus properly paid cannot be recovered back.
1 T. R. 286.
But it has been said that the statute in question may be explained
by extrinsic parol evidence of the meaning of the legislature which
passed it. Now I hold, 1st, That you cannot look, in interpreting an
act, beyond the terms of the act itself and the particular historical
circumstances out of which it grew, and, 2d, That if you can, the
evidence which has been invoked proves nothing.
As to the first proposition, see Dwarris on Statutes, 48 ; 15 Johnq,
380, 395 ; 2 Peters,,662 ; 1 Kent's Coin. 461 ; Opinions of Attorneys-General, Mr.. Wirt's opinion, 444. 445.

20

SUPREME'COURT.
Aldridge et a],.,..Williams,

If'every member of the ~egislature had -preferred that the regulations undek the act of 1832 siould not have been sanctioned by
that of, 1883, it would not have been effective to repeal the act of
1832, unless they had -expessed their wish in a legislative form.
But 2d, what does the deb'lte prove? Mr. Dickinson's proposition
was to strike out the paragraph respecting a' future law and insert
an adoption of that of 1832. Upon what principle was it rejected?
Merely because
iitended
reserve the
of
yotl instad
knew th~e
thatpower
Even tosupposing
executive;.
giving it to the Congress
mnanig
the Senate,the
Would
House
RepreMr. ofRobbins
pagethe715,
'aw itsofollow
? At that
sentatives ofunderstoodmake
omit
to
should
Congress
that
if
proposed
law should cease; and this was rejected.' Mr. Wil-a
theamendment,
regulation, an
kins, in his speech, said thatw-the law was notto be expounded by
the declaration of any senatoi.
But suppose I am wrong in all this, 'still say that the collector
exacts
an agent
responsible.
is
not :personally
.s'
a distinois liable.'thatButif there
has notice, Iheconcede
illegally, and
mony
137;
Peters,
10
payments.
involuntary
tion between voluntary and
13 Peters,. 267. These cases were before the act of 1839, "ad
under them Mr. Hoyt claimed a right to retain money in his hands
to pre.
passedopinion,
h; 1839,
3d Marcupon
act offounded
meet
to
Grundy's
Mr. was
and wis
practice, The
thisprotests.
vent
act shall
says
This'but
of Attorneys-General,
in Opinions
reported
by tem
held1287.
shall not be p.
paid t& collectors
moneys
that
be placed to the credit of the treasurer of the Unied States. It
contains two provisions.
1. 'That the collector shall pay over to the treasurer.
S2. It ,creates a remedy for the' party by authorizing thc secretary
of e Treasury to draw his warrant upon the treasurer for the
amount to be refunded. How can an importer, since this act, bring
a personal action against the collector? This action of assumpsit is
founded on an implied promise. But will the law imply a promise
1839 which directs all moneys, whether
in the faceotheo of aof
received properly or improperly by the collector, to be paid immediately over to the treasurer? The case in 10 Peters, 154, sanctions a collector's retaining nioney if it is paid under a protest, but
this was before the act of 1839. If he had given a bond ndt to pay
it over, the bond would have been void. If then he cannot retain
the money without violating the laws, how can a promise to retain
it be implied ?
If an agent, acting in the execution of a duty, endorses a bill, he
is not personally liable. 5 Price, 664. Nor will a suit lie against
an agent who pays over. 4 Cowen, 456.
And a case inWheaton carries the doctrine further still, thatan
officer of government is not personall responsible for torts. 3 Wheat.
246.

JANUARY TE.RM, J,84.

21

Aldkidge eitaL v. Williams.

Johmon, in reply and conclusion.
Let us -consider in the first place the point Just raised, viz.,"that
Sw.cannot recovei because the collector has paid the money over to
the government. We say,
1. That there is no such general principle.
2. That.the act ot 1839 did not establish it.
3. That if it.did, the act would be uhconstitutional and void.
1. The- original -cases .establish that where payment has bden
made to an agent, who has paid it over without notice, the agent
is not responsible. But if there be'liotice, he is. 10 Peters, 154;
13 Pete&s, 267; 3 Wheat. 246; 4 Cowen, 456-458; 9 JOhns. 201.
. 2. It is said, however, that the act. of 1839 has changed the law
in this respect. It is probable that collectors sqmetimeg retained
too much, and if 'so, the act was right'. But it.,only*iakes-a rule
between the government imd its officer, without interferig with the
rights of the'merciant. The 2d section says, "-paid inder protest
against the rate-of duty,?' but doesnot include cases:inlwhich it is
alleged -that theie is no duty at all. -If the argument on -the other
side be correct, there can be no suit at all again-st-any collector, and
the President has only to instruct him to seize upon any -man's
goods that he.chooses."
3. Would.such a law be consitutional? .
It is unnecessary to. enlarge upon the doctrines, that the government has only limited powers, and that its fundamental principal is,
the sacrednesi of. private property, which is not to be taken. without
law. .The true consruction of'the act of 1839 must be, that the
secretary'of the Treasury. is to dmav his warrant for whatever amount
may be recovered against. the ollector, and noti.that he is vested
with discretionary power whether to refund or not;- It would not
be .justice to tunr a citizen over for redress to the very government
which has injured him.
But, to pursue the argument,
1. Were we bound to pay any thing at all?
2. If so, how nuch,- on the home or foreign valuation?
The first point turns on the act of Marc, 1833, which it is desirable to construe by its own terms only, but if this is difficult, we
have a right to resort to its history. The 1st section provides for
reductions until.June, 1842.., After that timey was there any law for
the collection of duties? We say not. Up to that day there can bE
no doubt of the existence of a duty, or that it was levied on the
foreign valuation. It is true, that if the law had stopped there, the
duty would have continued. 'But that is not all the law. It in-.
tended to provide ,also for a time subsequent to June, 1842, in some
particulars; as for example, payment in ready money and a home
valuation.
The 3d "section says, that until June, 1842, the duties shall remain

22

SUPREME COURT.
Aldridge et al. v. Williams.

-

and be collected. If they courd already be collected by existing
laws, these words are superfluous. It must be read-as if the words
"and no longer" were inserted. After Juno, 1842, the act says,
that only spch an amount of 'evenue shall be raised as is necessary
for an economical administration of the government. Was this a
twenty per cent. duty? Who can tell ? It was impossible to say,
nine years in advance, what sum would be necessary. It was to be
collected, too, in a different mode; a home valuation was introduced
for the first time. The act of 1832 directed appraisers to- ascertain
the foreign valuation.. It is said by the other side, that it is easy to
add charges, &c.i and then you ascertain the home valuation. But
this is not so, because the value at home fluctuates from a variety of
causes. There is a great difficulty in carrying out this principle of
home valuation, because the Constitution requires duties to-be uniform in all the ports. This very subject was the great objection to
the Compromise Act. Ought it to have been left to the executive?
It is said, that the act of 1832 had so referred it. But not so. That.
act only authoriz-ed the executive tog ard against fraud. Knowing
the difficulty of excuting the duty, Congress would not have so lef
it. 'There is little or no difference between giving the executive
power to impose a tax, and-power to direct the mode of levying it.
In fact, the secretary of the Treasury issued three diferent"regulations on the subject. If previous laws gave the pbwer to the executive, why were the .words insetted, "under such regulations as may
be prescribed by law." Mr. Legar6 says, it. means, 1"may or may
not be prescribed;" and that " may" is not imperatiye.
The 4th section of the act is said to have no bearing upon the
present point; but I do not so consider it. It piovides for free articles until June, 1842, after-tat time, they fall back into their former class. But the section contemplates fresh legislation, when it
says, that goods shall be admitted on such terms as shall be prescribed by law. Why put this in,unless it.was thought that there
would be no law,, unless one were'passed? The last part of the 3d
section ought to be read as if it were part of the 1st. If you put
them together, the sense is clear; and their meaning is, that there is
no duty after 1849, unless by the passage of another law.
What will you do with the artitles-eninerated in the 4th section?
After 1842, they must go -back to their former class. But this would
interfere with the basis of the compromise. If the other side i§ right,
these articles must be tqxed again, and, not being includedwithin
the Ist section, might be taxed more than twenty per cent. But
this was not the meaning. The compr6mise act was more like a
triaty, of peace than a law; but the parties could not see as far as
1842. 'One thought that free trade, and the other, protection, would
,by that 'line be the settled policy of the country, and therefore both
agreed iWrefeiring the whole matter to future legislation. They in-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

2

Aldridge..et al. v. Williams.

tended to lay down certain general rules, which they expected to
have a commanding influence.
The 5th section was not in the bill when originally reported.
Why was it put in? See Mr. Clay's speech, Reg. Deb., vol. 9,
part 1, p. 463. The original bill provided, 'that after 1842, the duty
should be twenty per cent.; but this was stricken out, and a clause
inserted, that Congress should provide,'&c. Temporarysystems of
legislation have often been adopted.
As to "1regulations to be prescribed by law:'-The debates show,
that a proposition was distinctly made, by Mr. Dickinson!, to leave
them to the executive, and rejected, because it was doubted whether
it was a power appropriate to the executive. The action of the
27th Congress shows its opinion. A bill passed with much unanimity to continue duties, but failed to become a law in consequence of
one controverted point. But the message of the President admitted
that a law was desirable. Taxation should l'e clearly imposed and
only by law, not by the discretion-of the executive.
'
Ought the duty to have been levied on a home valuation?There was no law for this, even if the 1st section continued a duty
of twenty per cent. It was to be carried out under regulations to
be prescribed by law, and none were prescribed. The friends of
protection refused to pass the law, unless a hoiae valuation were inserted, and they were unwilling to leave the matter to the executive,
because, if hostile to protection, he might destroy it. The diffeience
in this small invoice is $1500.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit comes before the court upon a case stated, and is brought
here by writ of error from the Circuit Court for the district of Maryland.
The case in its material circumstarices is this:
On the 20th of August, 1842, the plaintiffs in error imported into
the port of Baltimore, from Liverpool, certain merchandise particuJarly set forth in the record, which, at the port of Baltimore, was
of the value of $44,346, as ascertained by appraisement at the custom-house. Upon these goods the defendant in error, who was at
that time the collector, acting in pursuance of orders and regulations
made by the Treasury Department under the direction of the-President, demanded for duties twenty per cent. upon the value so ascertained which amount was paid bythe plaintiffs in error under protest; and this action instituted .ainst the collector for the purpose
of recovering back the money. TIere are some other circumstances
mentioned in .the case stated, but -in the view which the court takes
of the subject it is unnecessary to recapitulate them. The judgment
of the Circuit Court was in favour of the defendant.
The great question intended to be tried is, whether, under the act
of Congress of March 2, 1833, the government was authorized to

24-

SUPREME COURT.
Aldridge et al. v. Williami.

collect any'duties upon goods imported afterthe.30th of June, 1842,
without theaid of f~ither legislation by Congress?
In exp6unding this, law, thejudgment of the court cannot, in any
degree, be influenced-by the construction placed'upon ic by individual members of Congress in he debate which took place on its passage, nor by the motives or reasons assegd by.them for suppori
or opposing amendments that were offered.' -The law as it passed
is the will of the najority of both houses, and the only mode'in which
that will .is spoken is in the act itself- and we must gather their intention '6m-the -language the're used, comparing it, when any ambiguity existsywith the laws upon the' same subject, and. looking, if
necessary, to the public history of the times in which it was passed.
The act in question is certainly not free from difficulty; and'this
difficulty arises from, its pculiar. character. It is dommonly called
the Compromise Aqt; and upon the face of it, it is evident.that some-'
intended beyond the'ordinary scope of legislation. Prothin
9wa
visions are introduced in relation to 'the future action of Congress
upon the -tariff which can only- be accouted for. by regarding the
act as a compromise of conflicting opinions on that subject, whereby
a certain scale of duties -was fixed- upon and established until June
30, 1842, aid certain leadin principles agreed upon, by which,
after that time, it was proposed to regulate the action ofCongress,
and the latter, as well as the former, inserted in the law in the forms
of legislation.. That this. wbs the case is.abundanly manifested by
s~veral clauses in the act, and particul rly in the 6th and last section, which provides that- nothing contained in the act shall be construed to'prevent the passage, prior or subsequent to the 30th of June,
1842, of laws to prevent and punish evasions of the dutiet imposed
*by law, nor to prevent the passage, of any act prior to the day last
mentioned, in the contingency of either excess or deficiency of the
revenue, altering the rates of duties on articles which, under the act
of July 14, 18'32 were subject'to a less rate of duty than twenty per
cent., in such manner as not to exceed that rate, and so as to adjust
the revenue to either of the aforesaid contingencies. Now it is impossible to sippose that Congress could have doubted its power to
repeal, or modif afterwards, the.dutis imposed by this act, in such
to pass
poweranyone
require,
might
publicto exigencies
as the
manner
who might
andortoitspunish
attempt
revenue,
evade ofthethe
duties
imposed'by
an act of'Conlaws to secure thecoiection
gress. If there had been nofin in this law out of the ordinary
course of legislative action,,it.wouldI hardly have been deemed necessary
to encuber
it with
doubted,
these was
reservations
of power,
and which
which
nobody
Congress
continuallya
exercising
upon
every
other subject. These provisions strongly mark its peculiar character.
And this association
positive
agreements
imperative
enactments, with
for future ofaction,
has and
perhaps
unavoidably
some obscurity, and, as to some of the clase, made occasioned
it difficult at

JANUARY TERMr I845.
Alid.ridge et al. V. -Williams.

25

first sight to say whether the language was mandatory, or merely deL
clared the principles by which it waq pioposed that the" legislation of.
-Congress should afterwards be goveined.
Taking this view, of its general character and objects, the very
large sum ultimately'inyolved in the controversy makes it the duty of
the court to proceed to a closer and riore careffl examination of its
different provisions. It is evidently supplementary to the act of July
14, 1832, and repeals only so much of thafact, and of other previous
acts, as are inconsistent with it. All of the duties, therefore, imposed
by the act of 1832, or any other law, and al the rules and regulations
provided for their collection, remain ihi full force, unless they are in-.
consistent-with the act in questiom
'The point to be determined then is, whether, after the 30th of June,
1842, the collection of duties imposed by the act of 1832, or by any
other law as modified by the'act of 1833, is inconsistent with the last
mentioned act. In other words, whether it repeals all previous'laws
imposing duties after the time'above mentioned; and if it does not,
wlether it has falled to provide the necessary rules and regulations to
enable~the proper officers to collect them.
The 1st sectioii declares that all"duties above twenty per cent. ad
valorem, imposed by the act of 183.2, or any previous laws, shall be
reduced annually, at the rate therein mentioned, umitl the 31st of December; 1841; and that, after that time, the one-half of the excess
tabove twenty per cent. shall be deducted; and from and after the
30th of June, 1842, the other half shall be deducted. Here the-section stops; and so far, therefore, from repealing the whole duties, it
by necessary implication continues a duty of twenty per cent. after
the 30th of June, 1842; for the direction to deduct the'excess above
that sum presupposes that a duty'to that amount is imposed ad to
be collected. The language used is equivalent to a positive enactment, that from and after -&b 30th 6f June, 1842,' the gogds.therein
mentioned shall be charged with thaf duty.
The 2d section is to the same effect. For after modifying the
duties imposed by the act of 1832, in regard to the articles mentioned in that qection, it declares that. these-duties shall be liable to
the same deductions as are prescribed in the 1st sevtion-that is to
say, the excess over twenty per cent. remaining on the 30th of June,
1842, is to be deducted; and consequently very' clearly imp'lying
that twenty per cent. is to be charged and collected after that period.
The 3d section provides that the duties imposed by. existing laws,
as modified by that act, shall remain and continue to be collected
until the 30th of June, 18.42; that after that time, all duties shall be
collected in ready money; and that such duties shall be laid as are
necessary to an economical administration of the government, anmd
shall be assessed upon the value of the goods at the port where they
are entered, " under such regulations as may be prescribed by law."
The latter words of this section relate merely to -the regulations
VOL. III.-4
C

26

SUPREME COURT.
Aldridge ei al. v. Williams.

by which the duties'were. to be collectdd after the time specified,
and that part of the controversy will be hereafter considered. The
points to which oui attention is now directed is, whether, under this
and the preceding acts of Congress, any duties continue to be imposed; in other words, .whether they were not all repealed by this
act after the 30th of June, 1842. Certainly the provision that they
shall be paid in cash, and assessed upon the hdme valuation, is no
repeal. Can the provision, that such duties should be laid, after the
time above mentioned, as were necessary to an economical administration of the government, be construed to repeal all the duties existing at that time? We'think not. The court are not authorized
to decide upon the amount of revenue necessary to an economical
administration of the government. It is a question for the leislature.. And the provision in this clause of the section addresses itself
to future legislative bodies, and*nat to the tri*bunals and officers
whose duty it is to carry into execution the laws of Congress. And
we should hardly be justified, by any rule for the judicial interpretation of statutes, in pronouncing .teims like these to be an implied
repeal of all duties after the time specified, when that construction
would make the law inconsistent with itself, by repealing, in the 3d
section, the duties it had continued in force in the 1st and 2d. On
the contrary, the true judicial inference would rather seem to be,
that it was supposed, at the time of the passage of the act, that the
modified duties remaining unposed on the 30th of June, 1842, might
produce the proper amount of revenue to be levied with a view to
the economical administration of the government; but leaving it to
Congress, when the time arrived, to alter and modify them in the
manner and for the purposes specified in this act.
The 4th section merely provides that certain enumerated articles
shall be admitted to entry free from duty from December 31st, 1833,
until the 30th of June, 1842, and therefore contains nothing hat can
influence the decision of the court.
The 5th section declares cerfain articles free after the 30th of June,
1842, and then provides, that all imports on which the 1st section
operates, and all articles, which were at the time of the passage of
the law admitted to entry free from duty, or paying a less rate of
duty than twenty per cent. ad valorem, before the 30th day of June,
1842, may be admitted to entry subject to such duty, not exceeding
twenty per cent. as shall be provided for by law; and this section,
as well as the 3d, has been much relied on in opposition to the
duty claimed by the government. But is it not like the clause in
the 3d, of which we have already spoken, the language of compromise and agreement, and addressed to those who should !be
afterwards called upon to legislate oi the subject, rather than to*the
administrative tribunals and officers of the country? It reserves to
Congress the right to reduce the duties continued.by the 1st section
below twenty per cent.; to inkpose duties on free articles, and to

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

27

Aldridge et a]. v. Williams.

raise duties which were below twenty per cent. up to that amount.
Yet nobody could hive supposed that Congress would not have-the
power to do all this, if, it thought proper to exercise it, without any
reservation of this description. The clause obviously was not introduced to reserve power, but with a view to the manner in which it
should afterwards be exercised. As a mere question of power, Congress undoubtedly had authority, after the 30th June, 18492, as well
as before, to impose any duties it saw fit upon the articles referred to,
or upon any other imports. And it cannot be supposed that the
Congress of 1833 intended to restrict, by force of law, the rights of
a future Conress. Yet if we lose sight of the compromise character of the act, and treat it as an ordinary act of legislation, we should
be bound to 'say, from the language uied, that the Congress of 1833
suppo.ed that the modifications of the revenue made by them could
not be altered by a subsequent legislature,'unless the right to do so
was expressly 'reserved. No one would think of placing such a
construction upon the section in question; and the difficulty is
removed when we look at it in vhat we doubt not is its true light,
and regard it as a compromise of conflicting opinions, which it
was believed would be afterwards respected, when it had thus been
solemnly set forth in a law. In this view of the subject, it is not
repugnant to the 1st and-2d sections, and leaves the duties retained
by them in full force after the 30th of June, 1842, until they.should
be altered by subsequent legislation.
The 6th and last section, the contents of which have been already
stated, still more clearly marks the character of the act; and upon a
view of the whole law, the court are of 6pinion that the duties which
were in force on the first of July, 1842, continued in force, until
they were afterwards changed by act of Congress.
This brings us to the 'remaining inquiry, whether, after the 30th'
of- June, 1842, there were any regulations in force, by which the
officers of the nvenue were authorized to collect the duties which
had not been repealed by the act of 1833 ; and this question maybe
disposed of in a few words, as. it rests altogether- upon the 3d section, the material parts. of which have been already stated.
Before the passage of the act of 1833, there were certainly regulations prescribed by law, abundantly sufficient for the collection of
the revenue. The clause at the close of the 3d section, which
directs that after the time so often referred to, the duties shall be
assessed upon the value at the port where the goods are entered,
"under such regulations as may be prescribed by law," can scarcely be considered as an implied repeal- of all previous regulation§ ;
for' it does not confine the regulations spoken of 'to such as might
afterwards be enacted, but uses the oridinary legislative language
appropriat6 to 'the subjecf, which naturally'and -evidently embraces
all regulations lawfully existing at the time. the home duties went
into opera'dor, whether made befoie or afterwards. 'They can, by

28

SUPREME COURT.
Alaridge et al. v. Williams.

no just :rule of- constructi6n, be held to repeal pre-existing ones,
nor. to require any new legislation upon the subject, unless it
should turn out that those already in force were insuifcient for the
purposes
But it has been urged that this clause, taken in connection with
the new rule of home valuatioui,-then for the first time established,
and to-which they refer, shows that new regflations were contem"plated, inasmuch as the 'existing legislation upon that subject had
been directed altogether to the value at the place of export. This
argument would undoubtedly be entitled to great wiight, if the subsisnng rules and regulations could not be applied to this new mode
of assessing the duties. But if the regulations already in force were
applicable to this new state of. things, there is no reason for- concluding that there was any intention to repeal them, even although
it should appear that they had been framed with a view to the
foreign value, and should be found more .difficult of execution, and
less satisfactory in-the result, when applied to the" value at the port
.ofentry.
The most important regulations in relation to this part of the case
are contained in the 7th, 8th and 9th sections of the act of July 14th,
1832. -It is true, that these regulations point to the value of the
goods af the place of export;. and many of the powers particularly
conferred on the apprasers would not assist them in ascertaining the
value at the place of import, and could not be used for that purpose.
But the substantial and manifest object of these regulations is to enable the proper officers to determine the amount, upon which the
rate of impost fixed by law is chargeable; and if the place, with reference to which the valuation is to be made, is changed, it does
not by iny means follow, that the powers before given to .the officers,
and the duties imposed upon them, are not*still to be exercised and
performed so far as they are applicable to the new-state of things.
The object and intention of the valuation is still the same.. It is to
execute the law, and to assess and collect the duty ,prescribed.
Thus, for example, the 7th section of the act of 1832 declares,
among other things, that it shall be the duty of the appraisers, and
of every person acting as such, by all reasonable ways or means in
his power, to, ascertain, estimate, and appraise the true and actual
value of the goods, at the time purchased and the place from which
they were imported. The place of valuation is afterwards changed
by hle act of 1833, 6ind the duty imposed according to the valu at
the home port. It would be a most unreasonable interprqtadion f
the law, to say, thai the appraisers must still go through the ceremony
of estimating the valke at the foreign port; or, that the mere change
of place-repealed the authority to value at all. In both cases the only
object of the appraisement is to ascertain the sum upon which the
duty is to be calculated; and the value of the goods at the foreign
port, or at the home port, is of no importance to the public except in

JANUARY TERM,1845.

29

Aldridge et al. v. Williams.

so far as it fixes the sum upon which the collector is to levy the rate
of duty directed by law.
The 9th section makes it the duty of the secretary of the. Treasury,
*under the direction of the President, from time to time to establish
such rules and regulatins, not incQnsistent with the laws of the
United States, as the President shall. think.proper, to secure a just,
faithful, and impartial appraisal of all goods,- wares, .andmerchandises, as aforesaid imported into the United States, and just and,
proper entries of such actual *alue thereof, and of the square yards,
parcels, or other quantities, as the case may rxquire, and- of such'
actual value of every, of them; ahc it is made the duty of the sedretary of the Treasury to report all such rules and regulations; with the
reasons therefoi, to the next session of Congress. It is very clear
that any regulation ;within the authority thus given, are regulations
prescribed by law. -And although. this section, as well as the others
before mentioned, und6ubte'lly contemplated the value at the foreign
port, yet when the valuation is transferred to a home port, it whs still
the duty of the secretary of the Treasury to frame rules and regulations to ascertain the value upon which the la:w directed that the
duty should be-assessed. For -this is the only object of the appraisement, an the only purpose for which rules-and regulations are fo be
framed.
Indeed; when it is evident that ufider the act of. 1833 certain
duties, as thereii modified, were continuea after the 30th of June;
1842, it would scarcely consist with judicial luty, to give dn"overtechnical construction to- dbubtfil words, which would make the
legislature inconsistent with itself, by imposing.a duty on goods im-.
ported, and-at the same time repealing all laws by which that duty
could be collected. "For :it cannot be supposed that Congress, in
qne and the same law, could so have intended; and such an intention ought not\to be implied, unless it was apparentfrom'unequivocallanguage. We think that there -are -no words in the act of 1833,
from wich such a design can fairly be inferred..
It. appears from the case stated, that thle. goods in question were
subject to a duty of twenty per cent. -under the .1st -section. of the
last mentioned dct; and that the duties in this case were assessed
accordingly upon the value of the goods at the port itwhich they
entered, as ascertained and appraised under the rules and regulations
established by the secretaiy of the Treasury'under the direction. of
the President. In the opinion of- the" court, they were lawfilly assessed and collected, and ihe judgment of the Circuit Court is therfore afffrmea.
We forbear to express an opinion upon the construction of the act
of 1839, which was argued in this case, because 'it isunderstood
that other cases are standing for argument, in -Whichthat question
alone is involved; and it is proper to give the parties an oppiortunity
of being heard before'the point-is decided.
c12-

80

SUPREME COURT.
Aldridge et al. v. williams.

Mr. Justice'McLEAN.
The decision of this case turns upon the construction of the act of
1833, and as I differ from the opinion of a majority of the judges, I
will state, in a few words, my views upon-the subject.
,The 1st section of the act provides, that ten per cent. on the existing duties' shil be deducted annually, until the duties shall be reduced to twenty per cent.
The 3d-section declares- "ihat until the 30th day of June, 1842,
the duties imposed by existing laws, as modified' by this act, shall
'remain and continue. to be collected. And from and after the day
last aforesaid, all duties upon imports shall be collected in ready
money; and 'all'credits now allowed by law, in the -payment of
duties, shall be, and are hereby abolished; and such duties shall be
laid, for the purpose-of raising such revenue as may be necessary to
an.economical administration of the government; and from and after
the day last aforetaid, the duties required to be paid by law on goods,
wares, and merchandise, shall be assessed upon the value thereof, at
'the port where the same shall be entered; under such regulations as
may be provided by law."
The above sections can scarcely be misapprehended by any one. The 1st section reduces existing duties, in a time and manner stated,
to twenty per cent. And the 3d section provides,, ' that until the,
30th of June, 1842, the duties imposed by existing laws, as modified

by that act, shall remain and continue to be collected.

Now the in-

ference is irresistible, that after the above date, the duties shall not
bt collected finder those laws. And this is shown conclusively by
the 5th section, which provides, that all imports on which the 1st
section of the act may operate, and all articles then admitted to entry
free from duty, or paying a less rate of duty than twenty pe- centum,
ad valorem, before the said 30th day of June, 1842, from and after
that day, may be admitted to entry subject to such duty, not exceedby law.'?
ing twenty per centu, 'ad valorem, as shall be provided
Now, these are not terms of compromise, but of enisctment.- After
the day specified, the law declares, that the tluties shall not exceed
twenty per cent. This, like all other laws, was liable to be repealed, expreinly or by implication. But it is law,but
untilthat
so repealed.
does not
The duties are no't to exceed twenty per cents,
establish them at twenty per cent.
The 6th 'section of the act repeals all laws inconsistent with it.
The twenty per cen, duties, by this act, were to be'continued onlyto
the 30th of July, 1842. After that, by the same-act; the duties were
not to exceed twenty per cent. Heie is norepugnancy i the
law, because the one provision is to cease at the same lime that the
other bfigins to operate. It is impossible that both, enactmnents can
be in force at the same time. They are inconsistent with each other.
The one provision fixes a definite amount of duties, the other an incent., is not twenty
to exceed twenty
definite amount. Not p~er

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

31

Aldridge et al. v. Williams.

per cent. To give effect to this provision, future legislation was
necessary. But,,is it the less binding on that account? 'Can it be
disregarded on the ground that it was a mere matter of compromise?
It has the form and solemnity of law, and it shows, that the act imposing duties expired on the 3 0th of July, 1842.
That this was the vidw of Congress, is manifest from the fact, that
in due time they passed an act regulating the duties, to take effect
from the above date, which did not receive, the signature of the executive. But this'is no reason why we, by construction, sliould continue in force a-law which Congress had repealed. -After the above
date, such duties were to be imposed "as shall be provided by law."
Now, this language cannot-be mistaken; ud .it is inconsistent with
'the idea, that the law imposing duties prior to that date, should, after
it, continue in force. Such a construction is unwarranted by the 3d
section and.the whole tenour of the act.
It is not for this court todetermine, whether Congress; in this respect, acted wisely or unwisely; whether their motive was to compromise great and conflicting interests or not; but what havethey
declared to be law? It would be a -restriction on the legislative
power, hitherto unknown, to say, that Congress cannot repeal a law,
unless they substitute another law in its place.
If the duty law in force prior to the 30th of July, 1842, be inconsistent with the provisions of the act under consideration, then the
prior law is repealed. And it is no- answer to this to say, that the
prior law, in its modified form, is in force by virtue of the act of
1833. The plain and uhequivocal enactments of that act'repudiate
such an inference. In -its modified f6rm, the prior law, by that act,
expired in 1842.. And after that, a new enactment, inmy judgment,
was essential, not only to continue duties upon foreign merchandise,
but also to give effect to all the important provisions of the act of"
1833.
The 3d sectiQn, after July, 1842, abolishes all credits for duties,
and requires thEm "to be paid in ready money;"- and it-further provides, "that duties shall be laid for the raising of such revenue asmay be-necessary to an economical administration ofthe'government;"
and that the duties ",required to'be paid by law," " shall be assessed
upon the value of the goods at the pdrt where the same shall be entered, uider such regulations as may be prescribed by law."
Now, every one of these provisiofis was adopted with reference to
its taking effect from, and after the 30th of July, 1842. They all
belong to, the same class. The credit for duties was to be then
abolished, and prompt payment required. From and after that day,
duties wer to be laid to meet the expenditure of an economical administration of the government. And after that day, "the duties
required to be paid by law," were to be assessed on the value of the
godds- at the port of entry;. and this assessment is required to be
made, "under such regulations..as may be prescribed by law."

82

SUPREME COUR-T.
Barrytv. G~mble.

These provisions cannot, -by.any known rule of construction, be
made to refer to-laws or regulations- existing at the tinie. of their
enactment. They all refer to the "fiture: to futfire laws, and regft-

-lations prescribed by those laws.
The existing laws .,made no provision to carry into effect the
-changes in the systtm, introduced by te act of 1833. Appraisers
were appointed under "forner ants, but there was no law or regla-.
,tion as to the home valuation.'. This was a most important matter,
under the new-system, , And it-s perceived, from. the explicit provision. of "the act of 1833, that Congress did n6t intend to leave an
arrangement of- so much' importance- to 'the discretion of the secre-

tary of. the Treasury or of the President. They declate±,that the
duties shall be assessed,' "under such .regulations as may be prescribed by law." This is not to be met by-argument. *It is matter
of No
law.one can doubt, that

laws in relation-to duties, not inconsistent
-with.the act of 1833, may be considered in giving a ionstrnicion to

that act. But I'am yet to learni that such laws, by any construction,
can suspend or modify thepoitiye enactments of the act of 1833.
Such a power belongs not t6 the executive nor the judiciary, but to
Congress.

J&Amer B~suy, PLAixF nx zRuin,-v. EAISITox IL. O~xmr. .
Under the act of 1815, a New Madrid certilflafe could be located upon lands
before.theywere offered af public sale under a proclamation.of the President,
or even surveyed'by the public surveyor.
The act of 1822 recognized locations of this kifnd, although they disregarded
the sectional lines by which th6 surveys were afterwards made.
Under the acts of 1805,1806, and 1807; it was necessary to file the evidences
of an incomplete claim under French or Spanisli authority, which bore date
anterior to the 1st of October, 1800, as well as those which were dated subsequent to that day; and i caise of neglect, the bar provided in the acts
appliEd to both classes.
A title resting on a permit tosetta and warrant of survey, dated bef9re the Is;
of October, 1800, without any settlement of' survey having been .made, was
an incomplete title and within these a4ts.
And although theacts of 1824 and 1828 removed the bar as it respected the United
States, yet, havin'g exdepted such lands as hd-been:sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States, and saved the rights ir title of adverse claimants, these acts protected a New Madrid claim which had been located whilst
the bar continued.
'bTy s case -was.brought-up from the Supreme.Cburt of Missouri,'
'by a writ of error issued under the.251h section of the Judiciary.gct
of 1789...
'It was an ejectment brought by Ganlble, the defendantin error.

against Barry, to recover possession.of a tract of land in St. Louis
county, Missouri.

