568"

SUPREME COURT.
'Andrews v. Wall et aL

as having put an end to it. It-is, "that the officers of the marine
corps shall.be entitled-to, and receive the same pay, emoluments,
and allowances, as ire now, or may hereafter be allowed to similar
grades in the infantry of the army,"' subjebt to the exception in the
section4following-the words just cited.
We shall direct the foregoing answers to the questions, upon
which the judges in the court below were opposed in opinion, to be
-certified to that court.

1&xzs B. ANImaws, APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM H. W=AN

'Jw
JoHN H.

GEiGR "DiF"ENDANTS.
'An agreement of consortship befween the masters of two vessels engaged in
the business known by the name.of wrecking, is a contract capable of being
enforced in an admiralty court0
st property or proceeds in the custody
of the court;
The case of Ramsay v. Allegre; 12 Wheaton, 611, commented on, and explained.' '
. I •
Such an agreement extends to "the'o -ers and crews, and is not merely per.
. -sonal between the mnaster..
'If
made for an indefinite period, it does not expire with the mere removal of
one of -the masters from, his vessel,'but continues until dissolved upon due
notice to the adverse party.'
Where there is no other evidence.tlian.ahe- answer of its having been a part of
the' original agreeinent, that suchrremva should dissolve the contract, the.
evidence is not sufficient.,
Whenever proceeds' are rightfully in the possession and custody df the admiralty, it is an inherent. iticideit- to the jurisdiction of that court to entertain supplementar suits by the prties in -interest to ascertain to whom those
proceeds rightfully belong, and to delipr- thenx over, to the parties who
,establish the lawful ownership thereof
.

Tins was an appeal from the Court of Appeals in-Florida, and
grew out of the following circumstances:There were two vessels, c e called the Globe, and the.'other the
George Washington,'engagewi in'the business" 'of astixg ve2sels
which were wrecked, 6r in danger of becoming so, on-the coast of
Florida. Between these two there existed-the agreement of con:
sortship, whith will he spoken- of presently.
-For assistance rendered by the Globe to the ship Missiasppi
and cargo- an amount of $5522-1,49 was decreed as salvage..
drews, the appellant was part on6ndr of the Globe, and Wall and.
Geiger, the defendants in error, were- part owners of the Geoie
Washington.
Wall and Geiger filed a petitibn in the Superior Court for the
southern district of Florida, beinig the same court V.hiah decreed
the salVge,) as follows .-

JANUARY -TERM, 1845.

O9

knirews v. Wall et a-I.

To the honourable Wm. MnviNr Judge of the United States Superior Court, sduthem judicial district of Florida, in admiralty.
"Your petitioners respectfully represent, ori oath, to Yoir honour,
that they, with Jf A Thouron, are the only owners of the' schooner
George Washington;'thdt said schooner has for soifietime past been
consorted with the sloop Globe, in the business of wrecking upon
this reef, and wat so 6onsorted with said sloop when that vessel
performed the services to the ship Mississippi which have resulted
in the payment of salvage to said sloop by your hon'our, in admiralty,
on the 31st day of- May, 1841 ; that a portion of said salvage is
justly due and owing unto your petitioners from'said coxisortship,
and that the master and agent of 'said sloop Globe, J. B. Andrews,
positively refuses to pay to them any portion of the same. They
thbrefore respectfully represent this matter, and pray the interference
of'your honbur that you may order the clerk of your honour's coilrt
to.retain such portion of said saage, now about to be paid to said
sloop, as to your honour may- appear equitable uaider'said consortship; die to said petitioners 'as owners of schooner the. George
Washington. And. they-are ready to show to your honour the exact sum due to them under said ionsortship. And will ever pray.
W. H. WALL,
JoHN H. GsiGsa,
S. R. MALLOyRy, Proctor."

In conformity with this petition the judge directed the sum of
$2455 64 to be retained, which Wall and Geiger claimed by a subsequent petition.
Andrews answered it as follows
"The answer of James B. Aidrews- part owner of the sloop
Globe, would respectfully represent, that a notice of a petition filea
by Win. H. Wall and John H. Geiger, who claim .as part owners
of the schooner George Washington, claiming a'part of the salvage
decreed to Thos. Greene,. master of the sloop Globe, in the case of
Thomas Greene et a]. v. Ship Mississippi and cargo, and has beenserved upon him. To which he comes i ito court, and says, that"c1. Ie petitioners have no right to come into your honourable
court in this smmary way, and obtain a decree against the eanings
of the master and crew of the soop Globe, ,who were libellants in
the above-case.
112. That if there is any thing due by the Globe, her crew and
owners, it must be by some contract existing at the time the services. for which salvage has been decreed were 'rendered, and that .
if such contract exists, it was not made with petitioners.by.,your,
respondent.
"3. Your respondent admits that there was a consprtship or
agreement entered into previously to the services rendered to the
ship Mississippi, by him; as master of the slbop Globe, and
'Russell master of the schooner George Washington, by which they
VoL. IIL-72
3n2

SUPREME COURT.

570

Andrews v. W. 11 et aL

agreed tq divide their respective earnings or gain between each
other, their crews, and the owners of the respective vessels, in a.certain-proportion, viz. : the Globe was to be rated at sixty-three tons,
and the George Washington at fifty-three tons, and the number of
men 'each vessel might have on board at the time that any money
might be earned. But he alleges that such' contract was made between him and Captain Russel for an indefinite time, and considered
that it only remained in force so long as they both remained on'
board of their respective vessels and earned salvage; and that at
the time the money in dispute was earned, that Thomas Greene, the
mate of the Globe, was master, and in that capacity rendered services to the ship Mississippi, and filed a libel in his own name, as
such, and being recognised as master by this court, salvage on the
said ship was decreed to him in his own name.
"'Whereupon your respondent prays that your honour will dismiss
the said petition,,and that the amount of the money retained from
the salvage decreed to Thomas Greene be paid over to him, together
with his costs in this behalf expended. And your respondent, &c.
JAmns B. ANDntEws,
W. R. HACxLEy, Proct. for Resp."

After the cause had been argued, the court gave the following
order:."Ordered, That the clerk ascertain the number of men on board
the sloop Globe and George Washington respectively at the time
of the earning of the salvage by the Globe for services rendered the
Mississippi and cargo, an that he divide the salvage in that case
decreed the Globe, between the Globe and the George Washington,
man, for man, and ton for ton, taking the Globe at sixty-three tons,
and the George Washington at fifty-three tons, and that he pay to
Win. H. .Wall and John H. Geiger the George Washington's portion for and on behalf of all persons interested therein.
"Ordered, That each party pay his own costs in this suit."
The result of the order was an apportionment of the fund between
the two Tessels as follows:To the Globe

-

-

To the George Washington
Total salvage

.

...

-

-

$3066 85

-

-

2455 64

.

$5522 49

From this decree Andrews appealed to the Court of Appeals of
Florida, which affirmed the sentence, and from this affirmance he
appealed to this court.
Clement Cox, for the appellant.
C. J. Ingersoll, for the defendants.
Cox made the two following points
1. That the record shows no subsisting contract of consortship at
the time of the salvage service.

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

571

Andrews v. Wall et al.

2. That a court of admiralty has no jurisdiction of the case.
In support of the first point, he said, that he had not been able to
find any judicial exposition of the -contract of consortship. The
court below decided on two grounds: 1st. That the Globe was a
wrecker, and, 2'd. That contracts of'consortship, were usual. But
the record shows no evidence of these facts, and the court was not
warranted in assuming them. 8 Gill, & Johns. 449, 456,
Upon the second point, he said that he had not found a case
where a court of admiralty had taken such jurisdiction, and it ought
not to have been assumed. 12 Wheat. 611, 613; 3 Peters, 433;
Baldw. 544; Bee, 199; 1 Pet. Adm..Rep. 223; Gilp. 514, 184;
Dunlap's Adm. Pr. 29; 1 Hagg. 306; 13 Peters, 175:
- 0. J. Ingersoll, for defendants, said, that he could scarcely add
any thing tQ the reasoning upon which the court below founded its
opinion, which was inserted in the record. The contract was one
of in admiralty character, Lnd the case was like that of joint captors,
the rules relating to which were familiar to the court. It was a
daily practice in a Gourt of admiralty to distribute funds which were
brought into court. The answer itself admitted the contract.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the case of an appeal in admiralty, from a decree of the
Court of Appeals of the territory of Florida, affirming the decree of
the judge of the Superior Court of the southern judicial district of
Florida. It appears from the proceedings, that upon a libel filed in
the Superior Court of the territory, in behalf of the owners and crew
of the sloop Globe, salvage had been awarded in their favour, against
the ship Mississippi; that a part of the salvage so decreed remained
in the registry of the court; and that the present petition was filed
by Wall and Geiger, on behalf of 'th&bwn~rs of the schooner George
Washington, for the share of the salvage due to them, as consorting
with the Globe in the business of salvage. It seems to he a not
uncommon course among the owners of a certain class of vessels,
commonly called Wreckers, on the Florida coast, with a view td
prevent mischievous competitions and collisions in the performance
of salvage services on that coast, to enter into stipulations with each
other, that the vessels- owned by them respectively shall act as consorts with each other, in salvage services, and share mutually with
each ether in the moneys awarded as salvage, whether earned by one
vessel or by both. It is admitted in the answer 6f the appellant,
who was the master and part owner of the Globe, and the original
respondent in the court below, that such an agreement or stipulation
was entered into, for an indeftnite time, between himself, as-the master of the Globe, and the master -of the George Washington, before
the salvage service in question; but he insists that it was to remain
in tbrce only so long as both remained masters of their respective

572

SUPREME COURT.
Andrews v. Wall et al.

vessels, and earned salvage;" and that af the-time of the salvage services in question, one Thomas Greene, mate of the Globes acted as
master thereof. He also insists, that the libellants have no right to
come into the court, in a summary way, to obtain a share of the salvage; and lastly, he insists that the agreement or stipulation was not
made between him and the libellants.
The courts Ifelow overruled all these matters of defence; and upon
the present appeal the same are brought before us for consideration
and decision. .In the first place, then, as to the original agreement
or stipulation for consortship, it must, although made by the masters
of the vessels, be deemed to be made on behalf of the owners and
crews, and to be obligatory on both sides, until formally dissolved
by the owners: . The mere change of the masters would not dissolve
it, since in its'nature it is'not a contra6t for the. personal benefit .of
themselves, or-for any peculiar personal services. It falls precisely
within the'same rule, as to its obligatory force, as the contract of the
master of i ship for seamen's -wages, or for a charter-party for4he
voyage, which, if within the. scope of his authority, binds the owner,
and is not dissolved by the death or removal of the master. Besides,
in the present, case, the agreement or stipulation for consortship was
for an indefinite period, and, consequently, could be broken up ordissolved only upon due rotice to the adverse party; and the mere
removal of the master of one of the vessels, by the owner thereof) for
his own 'benefit or at his own 4'tion, could in no manner operate,
without such notice, to the injury of the -other. In the next placei
there is not a particle of evidence in the case, that at the time of the
agreement or stipulation for consortship', it was agreed between*re"
parties, thit a change of the masters should be treated as-a dissolution thereof. The answer is not of itself evidence to establish such
a fact, but it must be.made out Jky due and suitable proofs; for in
the.admiralty.the same rule does not prevail as in equity, that theanswer to matters directly .responsive to the allegations of the bill, is
to be treated aS sufficient proof of the facts, in favour of the'respondent, unleis overcome by'the testimony of two witnesses, or of, one
witness and other circumstances of equivalent- force: The answer
may be evidence, but it is not conclusive; and :in the present
case, the dissolution of the agreelnunt'ot stipulation for consortship,
by the change of tie. master of the Globe, seems to be,relied on as
a mere matter of law, and not as a.positive ingredient in the original
contract.
The material and important quettion, therefore, is, whether the
agreement or sipulation of consottships a contrict capable of being
enforced in the admiralty against property or proceeds In the custody
of the court? We are'of opinion-that it it a case wi thin the'jurisdietion of the cuurt. - It is a maritiiae contract for services to be rendered on the-ea, -nd an apportionment ofthe salvage earned;herein.
Over inaritime 'cotracts the- admiralty possbsses a clear and estab-

JAN'UARY TERZ I4.

M8

Andrews v. Wall et al.,

lished jurisdiction, capable of being enforced in personam, as well
as inrem; as is familiarly seen in cases of mariners' wages, bottonry
bonds, pilotage services, supplies by material-men'to toreign. ships,
and other cases of a kindred nature,.which it is not necesay here
to enumerate. The case of-Ramsay v. Allegre, 12 Wheat. 611,
contains no doctrine, sanctioned by the court, to the .confrary'. It is
withih ray own personal knowledge, having been present at the decision thereof, that all the judges of the court, except one, at that
time concurred in the o"inion- that the case was one of a-maritime
nature, within the jurisdiction of the admiralty, but that the claim'
was ettinguished by a promissory note having been "given for the.
amount, which note was 'still 'outstanding and unsurrendered. It
became, therefore, unnecessary to decide the other point- The eneral doctrine had been previously.assrted in the. case of the General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438, and it was subsquently fully recognised.
and acted upon by this court, in Peroux-v. Howard, 7 Peters, 324.
Upon general principles, therefore, there would be no difficulty in
maintaining the present suit, as well founded in the jurisdiction of
the admiralty.
There is another. vfew of the matt. r, which does not displace but
adds great weight'to the'preceding considerations. This is a case
of pro'ceeds rightfully in the pcssession and custody of the admiralty*;
and it would seem to be, nd we are of-opinion that itis, an inherent
incident to the jurisdistion of.that court, to.entertain supplemental
suits b the parties in intefest, to ascertain to whom those proceeds
righ
be ong, and to deliver'thdm over to the parties who establish the -lawful. ownership thereof. This is familiarly known and:
exercised in cases of the sales of ships to sisfy. claims for sea.men's wgges, for bottomry bonds, for salvage servides, and for suplies of.material-men, where, afteir satisfaction thereof, there remain
what are technically called "remnants.and" surplisses," in the renistry of the admiralty.. But a more striking example is that of supplemental-libels and petitions, by persons asserting themselves to be
joint captors, and entitled to share in prize .proceeds, ai4 of eustom-house officers,- for Atheir distributive. shares of the proceeds of
pr6perty geized -and c6ndemined for breaches of-the revenue laws,
where the jurisdiction is habitually.acted upon in all cases of diffi.
culty or controversy.g
l
t "
Up~, the wh6le,without going more at large ito the subjet we'
are of opinion that the. deree-of the Court"pf Appeals of£ Florida
ought to be affirmed, with. costs.
•

