SUPREME COURT.

AND -SARAH C. LANE, WIFE OF THE SAID JOHN, AND ELIJOHN LAN
ZABETH IRION, AN INF4NT UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS, WHO SUES jY
JOHn

LANE HER NEXT FRIEND, COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, V.
SAILGEANT S. PRENTISS ET AL., DEFENDANTS.
.VICE,

JOHN W-

Newit 'Vick made the following devises, viz.2dly. I will and bequeath unto my beloved wife, Elizabeth Vick, one equal share
of all my personal estate, as is to be divided between -her and all of my children, as ler own right, and at her own disposal during her natural life; and
also, for the term of her life on earth, the tract of land at the Open'Woods on
•which I now reside, or the tracts near the river, as she may choose, reserving two hundred acres however, on the upper part of the uppermost tract, to
be laid offin town lots at the discretion of my executrix aud executors.
dly. I will and dispose to each of my daughters, one equal proportion with my
sons and wife, of all my personal estate as they come of age or marry; and
to my'sons, one equal part of said personal estate as they come of age, together with all bf my lands, all of which lands I wish to be appraised,.valued,
and divided when my son Westley arrives at the age of twenty-one years, the
said Westley baving one part, and my son William having the other part of"
the tracts unclaimed by my wife, Elizabeth; and I bequeath to my son Newit,
at the death of my said wife, that tract which she may prefer to occupy. I
wish it to be-distinctly understood, that that'part of my estate which my son
Hartwell has received shall be valued, considered as his, and as a part of his.
portion qf my estate..
I wish my executors, furthermore, to remember, that the town lots now laid off,
and hereafter to be laid off, on the aforementioned two hundred acres of land,
should be sold to pay my'iust debts, or other engagements, in'preference to
any other of my properly, for the use and benefit of all my heirs.
From the-provisions'of the will it appears.not to have been the intention of the
testator to include the town lots-,inthe devise of-his lands to.his sons.
But thege town lots must be sold, after the payment of debts, for the 'use and
benefit of all the heirs of the testaor.
The'mere construction 'of a will by a State Court, does not, as the construction,
of a .statute of t.e state, constitute a rule of decision for the courts of the
United States. "k such construction by a State Court had been long acquiesced in, so.as to become a rule of property, this court would follow it.

Tins was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the southern district of Mississippi, sitting as a court, of equity.

The case was this.
In 1819, Newit Yick, a citizen f the state of
leaving a wife 'and the followi'

Mississippi, died,

children':

So .- Ha"ell Vick, John 'Wesfley Vick, William Vick, Newit
H. Vick.
. Daughters.-Nancy, Sarah, Mary, Eliza, Lucy, Matilda, Amanda, 'Martha, Emily.
".The wife, however, died in ; few minutes after her husband.
In .October, 1819, the will of the deceased was admitted to pro,
bate in, the Orphan's Court of Warren'county, and was as follows:
"In the name of God, Amen!' I, Newit Vick, of Warren county,

and state of Mississippi, being of perfect mind and'memory, and'

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

465,

Lane et a]. v. Vick et aL
calling to inind the mortality of life, and knowing that it was appointed for all men once to die, do make and ordain this my last
will and testament, in the manner and form following, to wit:
"1Primarily, and first of all, I give and dispose my*soul'into the
hands of Almighty God, who gave it, and my body, I recommend
to be buried in a Christian-like and decent manner,.according to the
discretion of my executors.
it2dly. I -ill and blqueath" unto my beloved wife, Elizabeth
Vick, one equal share of all my.personal estate, as is to be divided
between her and all of my children, as her own right,, and at her'
own disposal during her natural life ; and also, for the term of her
life on earth, the tract of land at the Open Woods on which I now
reside, or the tracts near the river, as she may choose, reserving two
hundred acres howcver, on the upper part of the uppermost tract,
to be laid off in town lots at the discretion of my eikecutrix' ahd
executors.
13dly. I will ahd dispose to each 6f my danughters,-one equal
proportion with my sons and wife, of all my personal estate as they
comd of age or marry; and to my sons, one equal part of said personal estate as they come of age, together with all of my lands, all
of which lands I wish -to be appraised, valued, and divided when
my son Westley arrives at the age of twenty-one years, the .,aid
Westley having one part, and my son William aving the other
pait of the tracts unclaimed by my wife, Elizabeth; and .bequeath.
to my son Newit, at the death of my said wife, that tract which she
-may.prefer to occupy. I wish it to be distinctly understood, that
that part of my estate which my son Hartwell has received shall bp
valued, considered as his, and as a part of his portion of my estate.
4thly and lastly. I hereby nomiate and appoint my beloved
wife Elizabeth, my son Hartwell, and my nephew Willis B. Vick,
my sole and only executrix and executors -of this iny last will and
testament. It is, however, furthermore my wish that the aforesaid
Elizabeth should keep together the whole of my property, both real
personal, reserving the provisions before made, for the raising, educating, and benefit of the before-mentioned children.
"It must be remembered, that the lot of two acres on the bank
of the river on which a saw-mill house is erected, belongs to riyself,
son Hartwell, and James H. Center, when the said Center pays his
proportional part.

"I wish my executors, furthermore, to remember, that the town
lots now laid off and hereafter to be laid off, on the aforemention'ed
two hundred acres of land, should be sold to pay my just debts, ,x
other engageaents, in preference to any other of my property,f'6r
the use and benefit of all my heirs, and that James H. Center bave
a title made to him for one lot already laid off of half an acre in
said two hundred acres, and on which he has ,builded, when he
pays to my executors the sum of three hundred dollars.
VOL. 1I.-59

"466

9UPREME COURT,
Lane et al. v. Vick et al

"In. testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal,
this 22d day of August, in the year of our Lord 1819.
"The words interlined, ' for the use and benefit of all my heirs,'
NEwiT Vicx, [snA'L.]
before signed.
COOK,
FosT
EDWIN CooK,
B. Acx."
The wife being dead, Hartwell, one of the executors, virtually
renounced the executorship, and Willis the other executor gave the
necessary bond and took out'letters testamentary; but being in bad
health, he was; with his own consent, removed. John Lane, one
of the' complainants who had married Sarah, one of the daughters
of the:tesiator, then took out letters of administration with the will
annexed, and filed accounts, from time to time, until the year 1829,
when he filed his final account and was discharged. He reported"
the sale of sixty-seven town lots at various prices and to various
persons. The debts of the. testator were all paid.
In 1831, John Westley Vick sold a-portion of his interest, which
was subdivided by sundry mesne conveyances, and came into the
possession of severalholders.
In 1838, the plaintifis%being residents of Louisiana and Tennessea; filed their bill against all the other descendants of the testator
and claimants uAider them. It recited the facts aibove set forth, anA
'
proceeded thus :
(Your orators would further allege, that 'some years since the
said Willis B. Vick departed this life, and that for some years all
the executors -ofthe last will and testament of said Newit Vick have
been dead. 'Your orators allege, that only a few lots had been laid
off-and sold by Newit Vick, in his lifetime, and that your orator,
John Lane, as administritor, with the will annexed, laid off by actual
survey the said town of Vicksburg, off of the upper end of the uppermost tractd, referred to in said will; -which will, as your honours
will perceive, directed the same to-be done. Lots and parts of lots
have,been sold from time to' time by the.said administrator, and the
amounts of the sales applied to the payment and liquidation of the
debts- of the said Newit Vick, until all the debts which he, the said
Newit Vick, owed, so fat as are known, have been paic off and dischargd.
ch ey w(5uld further, state, that there yet remain lots and parts
bf lots, and parcels of ground in said town, and on said two hundred
icres, which are unsolyl, Etnidmore especially, that part of said town
known by'the -name of 'Commons,'and ' Levee street,' which have
descehded to the heirs of said Newit Vick, hereinafter mentioned.
They would further represent, that the powers of said Lane, administrator, to sell the unsold lots; parcels of ground, as above stated
aforesaid, have been doubted and biought into question, which
rencels it to him a matter of prudence and sound discretion to

SANUAR Y TERM; 1845.

467

Lane et al. v. Vick-et al.'

stop the sales, since the debts of Newit Vick have-been paid, and
ask the advice-oof this honourable dourt, sitting in chancery, who
have the- burden, and whos duty it is t,explain the nature of all
.trusts, and decree the performance of te same, to say what shall
be done with the residue of -the unsold lots, and parts of lots,
commons, Levee street, &c., in said town, and on said two hundred
acres."
It concluded thus:-"Your orators piay your honeurs, upon a final he ring of this
cause1 to-decree a division aid partition of the -aforesaid lots, parts
of Iots,-common, and'Levee street,:to be made between them-and
the other- heirs -of Newit Vick; and that said claimants shall be
put into possesionof the partallotted.to her or them, and that the
defendants- shall -account for the rents and profits which they hgve
respectively received., Or if.
a pdrtiti-n and'divisi~n of the ground
aforesaid, as above asked for, is not, in the opinion of this honourable 6burt, carrying the -will of the testator, Newit Vick, into full and
complete effect, according to the true intent and meaning thereof,
theA may your honours decree -and order the said John Lane, administrator with the will annexed, to proceed- to.sell said grounds,
upon sftch terins and credits axsyout may deem' proper, and then distribute the money among 4he several claimants, according -to their
respective interests, and grant all such other relief ds to justice may
belong."
Some of the defendants answerdd'the bill, admitting the truth of
its statemeits, and conicurring'in the prayer- for a division, "among
the 4everaI claimants, according" to the nature and extent of them
as heirs, and also under the will of Newit Vick ;"' others concurred
generally, mad praed that their parts might he allotted to them.
The parties made defendants; as vendees, &c., to wit, Prentiss,
&c.,'demurred to ihe"bill-;'and the cause being'set 'down for hearing on this state of preparation, the court, ia June, 1842, sustained.
4he demurrer, and-dismissed the bill.
Fronthis'decrea the complainants-appealed.
Ben Hardin, (in.print,) for the plaintiffs-i -error.
Crittenden, fur the dpfpndants inerror. '
This is one of the cases which was argued during 'an unavoidable
absence of"the Reporter- and- altiiough he iVs
enabled to give Mr.'
.Fardin's argument, he -regrets- that he cannot furnish that of Mr.
Crittenden.
.Hardin,After stating the case, proceeded thus:From the face of the will, and also the statements of the bill,.it
appears that the testator owned a tract of land in the Open Woods,
a few miles froni the Mississippi river, on which he resided at his

468

SUPREME CO6URT.
Lane et al. v. Vick et al.

death; and also two tracts and parcels of land, included in one survey, on the Mississippi, immediately below and adjohiing the Wal.nut Hills. The lands on the Mississippi had only been surveyed
when the testator died, and-patented after.his death. The second
clause in.the will gives to the.wife of the testator, "for the term of
her life on earth, the tract of land at the Open Woods, on which he
then resided, or the tracts near the river,.as she may choose, reserving two-hundred acres, however, on -the upper part of the uppermost.tract, to .be laid off in town lots; at the discretion of my executrix and executors." The court will perceive that the two hundred
acres, on which the town.was to be laid off, are expressly reserved
out of the -devise to the wife of the testator. In the , hird clause of
the will-there .is the f6llowing devise: "And to my sons, one equal
part of my said personal estate, as -they come of age, together with
all my lands, all of which lands I wish to be appraised, valued,
and divided, when my son Westley arrives at the age of twenty-one
years; "the said Westey having the one part, and my son William
having the other part of my tracts unclaimed by my wife Elizabeth;
and I bequeath to my son Newit, at the death of my said wife, the
tract she may prefer to occupy." The-question from this clause is,
what lands weri disposed of by it? I contend it is ll his lands, except the tW'O hundred acres directe'd to -be laid off into town lots,
because -the objects the testator lia6" in view in laying.off the town
into lots, and selling the same for the.payment "of his debts afid
liabilities," ard. utterly inconsistent and incompatible with devising.
the same away to his sons. And -the expression, "all my lands,"
-

must be understood to mean, except the two hundred acres reserved
for the town. Should it be contended that the expression, "all my
lands," .will embrace the two hundred acres to be laid off into town
lots, leaving the executors power'6 sell so much of it as would pay
the debts of the testator: le answer to that argument is, that the
lands devised to his sons C aie to be appraised,, valued, and divided
when Westley.arrives at the age of twenty-one years." The time
fixed on' for a division of the land would, in all probability, arrive
before the debts 'nd liabilities of the -testator would be paid-off, or.
even known,, foi aught the court knoWs or can know, on the demurrer, Wesley might "have been, at -the death of the testator,
,within one or two years of twenty-one,. (which was the -fact,) and
thereby leave no time, or at least not sufficient time to ascertain his
,debts and pay them off and settle all his liabilities, before- "the
lands were to be appraised, valued, and divided." When Westley
might arrive at twenty-one years of age the persons appointed to
appraise, value, and divide lhe lands would not kntw what portion
of the lots would be required to be sold -to pay the debts. The
above reason'excludes the idea that he intended to devise said lots,
or any. of daiem, to his' sons. -The whole amount of the debts of thq
testator, as settled by the court in August, 1829, was $38,704 16.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Laa.

,469
4

et aL v. Vick et a].

The laying oF the town was. a mere experimenit of the testator to
enable his executors to meet his debts and liabilities. It might succeed and pay his debts, and then: again it might fall far short.
These experiments of new towns to raise funds are as uncertain add
precarious as lotteries. And hepce it never entered into the design
of the.testator to will away the unsold lots, after the debts Were paid;
and to fix-on atime certain, when the power of.the executors to sell
should ceas e because it must cease," when appraised, valued, and
diviaed.". There-is another argument growing out of the third
clause of the will, which I deem conclisive in favour of the position
I contend for. The testator'had two tracts of land, one in the Open
Woods, and ond oni the Mississippi. His wife had a right from-the
will to select which she chose for her xesidence; but the town part
of the river tract was expressly reserved, and was not within- the
devise to'her. Suppose sh had selected the river tract, then Newit,
the son of the testator, was to have that tract 11 which she may prefer to occupy ;" and Westley and William the other tract, to wit,
the Open W6ods. If the wife of the testator had selected the river
tract, then, at her death, what would Newit Vick take? Just what
she selected to occupy,- no more or less. For'if more was intended,
that is the residue of the river tract, if she had selected it, why withhold that-part from him until she .died, when she ky the will had no
claim to it? It surely is not compatible with the fair exposition and
interpretation of the will to say, that if Mrs. Vick selected the river
tract, then Westley and William -would be entitled -to the Open
Woods, and also the two.,hundred acres off of the upper end of the
uppermost tract,. which was laid off into town -lots. Besides, Westley and William were to have the other part of-the tracts unclaimed
by his wife Elizabeth. The construction of the will contended for
(n the other side, just amounts to this, that Westley and William
Vick took the two hundred acres which .were to be laid off in lots,
without the wife of the testator or his son-Newit having any claim to
that part. Then why use the words "unclaimed by mywife Eliza,beth," if she had no claim from the will? ]Zlie word "1unclaimed"
clearly proves that the testator gave no lands to Westley and William, except such lands as the wife of testator had the right to claim
as her future-rsidence, if she chose.
The last "liuse in the .will has these words interlined and underscored, "for the use and benefit of all rhy heirs." These words
have -no'meaningn.th-.m, if itfbe only intended .that by the sale of
his lots -o take th.e buriei. of-the payment of his debts off of hig
persbnal estate, and that in that way. it would be for the benefit
of all his heirs, as all are to have an equal share of that, because
that would' have been the affect and operation of that clause without the interlineation of the above words. The clear meaning is,
the town lots are for the'benefit of all my heirs. By adding the
word "and" before the word "for," then it Would read thus:
2R

47,

.

SUPREME COURT.
Lane et al. v. Vick et al.

and for the use and benefit of all my heirs." The word ", and"
added would free the will from all ambiguity and uncertainty, and
then the interlineation, which 'was inserted with deliberation, will
have some meaning, otherwise it has none; all words and parts of a
will shall have some .meaning, if by any sensible construction of the
will the same can be done. It is certain that the interlineation ws
inserted after the will was wrote, and the necessity of it was suggested
upon the last reading, before signing, which shows that the testator
-deemed the interlin(ation essential to carry out his meaning. The
fact is, it is well remembered by all present, who are.yet alive, that
on the reading of his will, one of the daughters of the testator asked
him if his daughters werd to have an interest in the town lots; upon
the testator answering in the affirmative, she replied,, to clear the will
of all doubt, the interlineation had better be made, which was accordingly done. I am aware that these facts are inadmissible, but at
all events the interlineation goes to show that somethingr of the kind
did occur. There is yet another question; the wife o? the testator
died in about ten minutes after her husband, and was, from the death
of the testator, until her death, incapable of 'making a selkction of the
place of her future residence, and never made any, or attempted to
make any.
If the town lots passed by the will of the testator to his son , then
Newit Vick is entitled to one-third His Oswer is a cross-bill, and
s hould have been retained, and, upon a final hearing, one-third allot.ted to him. 'I till-refer the court to the'laws of Mississippi, to show
that all the legitimate children inherit equal share a-. share alike,
and also to Swinbum, 20, 21, 22, 638, 639. The meaning of the
testator is all that is sought after by the judges. There is another
principle of law universally admitted to be correct. that heirs are not
to be disinherited by a doubtful construction. "
C

Crittenden, for defendants in error, laid down the following propositions:
'
" the lands
1. That (subject to an estate for life to his - ife) all
of the testator are devised to his sons, in exclusion of his daughters.
2. That the last clause of the will does not affect the devise to the
sons, otherwise than by creating a charge upon the town lots for the
payment of debts, thereby exonerating and preserving the personal
estate for the use and benefit of all the parties to whom it had been
bequeathed. And those debts being paid, (as appears by confession
of the complinants,) the encumbrance is discharged, and no ground
of interest or complaint left to the complainants.
3. That if any right or title, other than above supposed; was devised to the complainants, it is expressly limited and confined to the
"town lots no* laid off, and hereafter to be laid off," &c. By the
bill, it appears that the lots laid off by-the testator were sold by him,
and that no others were thereafter laid offby the executors, to whose

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

471

Lane et a]. v. Vick et 'al.

discretion it was confided; so that there are no lots to which any
right or claim of the complainants can attach. .4. That Lane's appointment as administrator was illegal and
void; and, if not, that he had no right to exercise the power anud
discretion confided in'the executors of laying off and selling town
- lots; and that his laying off lots can confer no right thereto upon the
comlJlainants.
5. That the construction of the will insisted on in the 1st and 2d
of the above propositions, and the points stated in all the foregoing
propositions, have been, in substance, so decided and settled by the
Supreme Court of the state of Mississippi, and that decision will be
regarded as conclusive in this court, according to its well established
*principles.
On the 1st proposition, he cited 10 Wheat. 159; 8 Wheat. 535;
12 Wheat. 162, 168, 169; 5 Peters, 15; 16 Vesey, jun., 446;.
3 Mass. 381; aBibb, 3U9; 4 Johns. Ch. 365: and in support of
the 5th proposition, 1 How. Miss. Rep.* 379, 442; United States v.
Crosby, 7 Cranch. 115; 9 Wheat. 565; 10 Wheat. 202.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by an appeal from the decree of the
Circuit. Court for the district of Mississippi.
The complainants under the will of Newit Vidk, late of the tate
-of Mississippi, deceased, claim certain interests in a tract of two
hundred acres of land, on which the town of Vicksburg is laid off.
In the bill various proceedings are stated as to the proof of the will,
thequalification of one of the executom named in it, the 'death of
the executrix, and the refusal of one of the executors named to
qualify; that the executor who- qualified was afterwards removed,
with his consent, and Lane, the complainant, appointed administrafor, with the'will annexed; that acting under the will, the administrator laid off the town of Vicksburg, sold lots, and-paid the debts
of the deceased; that there yet remains certain parts of the above
tract undisposed of; and that his power as administrator to sell the
unsold lots is questioned.
The defendants are represented as being interested in the above
tract, as devisees and .as purchasers and the complainants pray
that the court would decree a partition of the lots, conimons, and
Levee street, to be made between them and the other devisees of
Newit Vick; and that said claimants shall be put in possession, &c. ;
or that said property may be sold, &c., as shall best comport with
the intent of the testator.
. 'l.e defendants favourable to the object of the bill answered; the
others demurred to the bill, which was sustained on the hearing,
and the bill was dismissed, from which decree thjs appeal was taken.
The decision of this case depends upon the construction of the
Will of'Newit Vick.. It was proved the 25th of October, 1819,

472.

SUPREME COURT.
Lane et al..v.-Vick

et al,

Every instrument of writing sli6uld be so construed as to effectuate, if practicable; the intention of the parties to it. This principle
applies with peculiar forde to a will. . Such an instrument is generally drawn in the last days. of the testator, and very often under
circumstances- unfavourable to a calm consideration of the subjectmatter of it. The writer, top, is frequently unslflful in the use of
language, and is more ot less embarrassed by the impqrtance and
solemnity of the occasion. To expect much system or -precision
of tanguage in a writing formed tinder such emetgencies, would
seem to be unreasonable, And it is chiefly owing to tbese causes
that so many-controversies aise under wills.
, In giving a construction to a will,'all the parts of it should be
.:,examined and compared; and the intention of the testator must be
asceitained, not from a part, but the wlole of the instrument."
By the second paragraph of the-'will finder eonsideration, the
testator bequeaths .to his wife one equal share of his personal property, to .bi.' divided between her and her .children. This would
give to his wife one-half of his personal estate. Butthe succeeding
paragraph -qualifies this bequest so as to give to his wife a share of
the personal property,,equal only to the amount received by each of
his children. This shows a want of precision .in the language.d6
the will, and that one part of it'may be explained.and qualified by
another.
In the second paragraph,, the testator devises to liis -Oifef during
her riatural life, "the tract of.land it the OpenWoods, on which he
then resided, or the tracts near the rivers as she might. choose, reserving two hundred acres, on 'the upper part of the uppermost-tract
to be laid off in town lots,.at the discretion of his executrix and
executors.7:
This discretion - of his executrix and'executors,.referredto the
plan of the town, and not to the proprietyof 'laying it off. "The
testator had determined that a.town should, be established, inid reserved for this purpose the-above iract of two- hiindred acres,' "to'
off in town lots;'"..
-be
laid testator
I The
next disposes of his personal property to -hs-wife and
children; and he says, " to my sons one equal part of said personal.
estate as they come of age, together with all my lands, all of which
lands I wish to be appraised, valued,- and divided, when my son
Westley arrives at the age od twenty-one years; the said Westley
having-one part, mid my ton William having the other part, of the
tracts unclaimed -by my wife lklizabeth; and I bequeath to my son
Newit, at the death of my said wife, that tract which she may prefer
to occupy. I wish it to be distinctly understood, that that part of
my estate .which my son Hartwell has received, shall be valued,
considered-as his. and as a part of his portion of my vstate?' By these, devises, Newit, on th6 dial of his pother, was to have
the tract selected by her for her residence. Shie died, it is ldmittedy

3ANUARY TERM, 1845.

473

Lane et al. v. Vick et al.

in a few minutes after the decease of the testator, so that no selection
of a residence was made by her. But this is not important as regards the intention of the testator. What lands did he devise to his
sons Westley and William? The answer is, the land unclaimed by
the wife of the testator. His words are, " Westley having one part,
and my soxi William having the other part, of the tracts unclaimed
bymy wife Elizabeth." But what tracts may be said to come under
the designation of "tracts unclaimed by my wife?" The land
which, under the election given to her in the will, she might have
claimed as a residence, but did not.
This claim by the widow was expected to be made shortly after
the decease of the testator, as by it her future residence was to be
established. If she selected the river land, then the Open Woods
tract was to go, under the will, to Westley and William ; but if the
Open Woods tract were" selected by the widow, then they were to
have -the river land. This devise being of the land unclaimed by
the widow, presupposes her right to have claimed- if in the alternative under the will. It did not include the town tract, for that was
expressly reserved by the testator from the choice of his wife. That
ihis is the proper limitatiolu of the devise to Westley and William,.
seems to beclear of doubt.
To Hartwell was devised the -tract on which he lived, and which
was to be valued.
These are the specific devises of his lands, by the testator, to his
four sons.. The tract of two hundrbd acres reserved for the town
is not affected by them. Did this tract pass to his -sons under the
general devise of his-lands to them, in the third paragraph of the
will? That point will be now exafnined. The words of the testator are, ". and to my sons one equal part of said' personal estate as
they come of age, together with al of my lands, all of which lands
I wish to be appraised, valued, ana divided, when my son Westley
arrives at the age of twenty-one years." The words "all of my
lands," unless restricted by words with which they stand connected,
or by some other part of the will; cover the entire real estate of the'
testator. But-these words are restricted by the part of the sentence
which follows them, and also in other parts of the will..
" All of which lands I wish to be appraised, valued, and divided,
-when my son Westley arrives at the age of twenty-one years," follow the words "all of my lands," and show that the tract of tfo
hundred acres was not intended to be included in this general devise. Such an intention was incompatible with the reservation of
this tract for a town. In the second clause of the will are the
words, "C reserving two hundred acres, however, on the upper part
of the uppermost tract, to be laid off in town lots." Now the testator could not have intended, in the next clause, .to direct that this
tract should be valued and divided among his sons. This would
be repugnant to the authority given to his executors to lay off a
2R2 :
VoL. I.-60

474

SUPREME COURT.
Lane et al. v. Vick et'a].

town, and would have been an abandonment of what-appears, from
the last clause in the will to have been, with him, a favourite. object.
Did he intend the tract of- tWo hundred acres should be valued and"
divided among his sons, which he directed in another part of his
will to be laid off into town lots and sold by his executors? So
great an inconsistency is not to be inferred. The general devise to
his sons, "1of all his lands," was limited to the lands which he directed to be valued and divided among 'his sons. This cannot be'
controverted; for it is in the .ver words of the will, 'and does' not
depend upon infertfce or coistruction. .The 'special $devises to.
each of his sons, which follov the general devise, alsoi in. effect,
limit it. These devises cover all the real property of the testator,
except the tov~n tract, and 'show what he meant "1by'Ol his-lands."i
He intended all his lands Whic he subse4i4ently'and speciall de
vised, and not the tract -which,, in "the 'will, he had. previously re-served and afterwards disposed of.
In the next clause of the will the testator expresses his wish- that
the aforesaid Elizabeth should keep together the whole of his property, both real and personal, (reserving th provisions before'made,)
for the raising, educating, and benefit of the. before-mentioned
children. .
These exceptions refer to the share of the personal property which
.each child was to receive whenmarried, or at full. age, and fc" the
land appropriated for the-town. We have now arrived at the last clause of the 'will, undet which
clause this controyersy has arisen. The testator has 'made provision'
for his wife, by giving her a life-estate in one 6f two tracts of land
as she might select, and an equal share, with'each child, of the personal property. To his sons, in addition to his share in the personalty, he has given to each a portion of -his real -estate. He has
made no disposition of the"tract reserved for a town, but -pioceeds
to- do so in the following and closing paragiaph of the'will.
- II wish my executors furthermore- to .remember that the town
lots now laid off, and hereafter to be laid off, on the aforementioned
two hundred acres of land, should be sold to pay my just debts, or
other engagements'in prefe rence to any other of my property for
the use andbenefit of all my heirs."
This clause is.construed, by the appellees, to be a charge on the
two hundred acres of land for the payment of fhe debts of the tes-tator only. " And that the authority to the executors to sell lots, is
limited to this object. That as the personal property bequeathed
to his heirs wag first liable for the debts of the deceased, the charge
on this tract may well be said, in the language of the will, to be
",for the use and benefit of all his heirs."
That there is plausibility in this. construction is admitted.. It'
may, at first, generdlly, strike the mind of the reader as redsonable
and just. But 'a closer investigation of the structure of:the para

JANTARY TERM, 185.

47

Lane et al. v. Vick et aL].

graph, and a comparison of it with other parts of the wil, with the
view to ascertain the intention of the testator, must, we think, lead
to a different conclusion.
If the object of the testator had been, as contended, merely to
charge this tract with the payment of his debts, would the words,
"for the use and benefit of all my heirs," have been inserted? The
sentence was complete. without them. They add nothing to its
clearness or force. On the conitrary, if the intention of the testator
was to pay his debts only, by the sale of lots to be laid off, the
words are surplusage. They stand in the sentence, disconnected
with other parts of it, and, consequently, are without an object.
The testator directed that the town lots should be sold to pay his
just debts, "1in preference to any other of his property." -This
released his personal property,, which he had bequeathed to his
children, from all liability on account of his debts. And on the
hypotheses that he only intended to do this, why should the above
words have been added. They were not -carelessly thrown into the
sentence when it'was first written. From the -will, it appears they
were interlined. This shows deliberation, and the exercise of judgment. Without this interlineation, the lots were required to be sold
to pay debts, in preference to other property, in language to& clear
to be misunderstood by any one. It could not have been misunderstood, either by the testator or- the writer of the will. But, as
the paragraph was first written, it did not carry out the intention of
the testator. "To effectuate that intent, the interlineation was made.
The words, "for the use and benefit of all my heirs," were interlined. Does this mean nothing? This deliberation and judgment?
Were these words added to a sentence perfectly clear, and which
charged the -land with the payment of the debts of the testator,
.nthout any 6bject? Were they intended .to be words of :mere
surplusage and without effect? Sash an inference is most unreasonable. It does violence to the words themselves, and to the
circumstances under which .they were introduced. No court ,can
disregard these words, or the inanner of their introduction.
The testator was not satisfied with the directioA to his executors
to sell lots for the payment of his debts, but he adds, "1for the use
and benefit of- all.my heirs." By this he intended, that the- lots
should be sold for the payment of his debts- and "for the use .and
benefit of all his heirs."
The. omission of the word anid has given
rise to this controversy.' Had that word been inserted with the
others, no doubt could have existed on the subject. And its omis'
sion is reasonably accounted for, by the fact of the interlineation.
On such occasions, more attention is often paid to the matter to be
introduced, than to the-wqrdwhich connects it with the sentence.
That the lots should be sold "for the use and benefit of all his
lieirsl" after the payment of his debts, is mbst reasonable; but it
cannot, with the same propriety of language, be said, that the debts

476

SUPREME -COURTLane et aL v. Vick et ah

of the testator were to be paid "for-the use of all his heirs." The
word use imports a more direct benefit. That thephrase was used
in this sense we cannot doubt.
The clauses in the will. preceding the one which is now under
consideration have been examined, ind no disposition is found -in
any of them of the town tract. - And' if it be not disposed of in
this last paragraph, after the payment of the debts, the remaining
lots or their proceeds -will descend generally to the heirs of the testat6 r as personal property. The law.will not disinherit the heir,.bn
a doubtful devise. But we think the..ttstator intended that the tract
if two hundred acres should -be laidout -in lots and sold, "for the
use and benefit of all his heirs," and "1the payment of his debts and'
other
" Thisengagements."
construction of the'will is strengthened by its justice to all
the parties interested. That the testator intended to give to his sons
a much larger part of his property than to his daughters, is evident.
e oave to"his sons an equal share, with his dauhters,'of his per
"sona property. But did he intend to'cut off his Jaughters from all
interest in his real- estate? He could not have had the heart of a
dying father to have- done" so. He did not act unjustly to his
daughters. They, equally with his sons, were devisees of the proceeds of the town lots, after the payment of all just debts and other
eigagements.
It is insiAed that the construction of 'this will has been conclusively settled-by .the Supreme Court of Mississippi, in the case of
Vick et a!. v. The Mayor aid Alderman of Vicksbuig, 1 How.
379.
The parties in that case were not the sanmeas those now before
this court; ana that decision does not .affect the interests of the
complainants here. The question before the Mississippi court was,
whether certain grounds, within the town plat, had been dedicated
to public use. The construction of the will was incidental to the
ian-object of the suit, and of course was not'binding on any one
claiming under the will: With the greatest rdspect, it may be pro-per to say, that this court do not follow the state courts in their
construction of a will or any other instrument, as they do in the
construction of statutes.
Where, as in tte case.of JaIckson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 167, the
construction of'a will had been settled by the highest courts of the
state, and had long been acquiesced in as a rule of property, this
-court wduld follow it, because it had become a rule of property.
The construction 'of a statute by the Supteme Court of a state is
followed, without reference to -the interests it may affect, or the parties to the suit in which its construction was involved. But the
mete construction of a will by'a state court does not, as the construction of a statute of the state, constitute axule of decision for the
;courts of the United States. Inthe case.of Swift-v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 1,

JANUARY TERM, 184 .

477

Lane et aL v. Vick et al.

the effect of the 34th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, and the
construction of instruments by the state courts, are considered with'
greater precision than is found in some of the preceding cases on
the same subject.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause is
remanded to that court for further proceedings.
Mr. Justice McKINLEY.
In this case I differ in opinion-with the majority of the court, not
only on the- constructio. of the will, but upon a question of muich
greater importance, and that is, whether the constrution given.to
this will by the Supreme Cdurt of Mississippi is not binding on this
court? I will proceed to the examination of these questions in the
order in which I have stated them; and to bring into our view all
the provisioris of the will, -which dispose of the real estate of the testator, I will state them in the order in which they stand in the will,
unconnected'with other provisions not necessary to aid in constug
those relating to the real estate.
"
After the introductory part of the will, and providing for his fune-.
ral, the testator proceeds to dispose of his estate thus:
"Secondly, I will and bequeath to my beloved wife, Elizabeth
Vick-, one equal share f all my personal estate, as is to be divided
between her and all my children;f as her own right, and at her own
disposal during her-natural life; and also for the term of her life on
earth, the tract of land -at the Open Woods, on which I now reside,
or the tracts near the river, as she may choose; reserving two hundred acres, however, on the upper part of the uppermost tract, to
be laid off in town lots, at the discretion of my executrix and executors.
9"Thirdly, I will and dispose to each of my daughters, one -equai
proportion with my sons .and wife- of all my personal estate, as
they come of age'or marry; and to my sons one equal part of said
.personal estate, as they come of age, together with all of my lands;
all of which lands I wish to be appraised, valued, and divided,
when my son Westley arrives at the- age of twenty-one years;jthe
said Westley having one part, and my aon-William having the other
part of the tracts unclaimed by my wife, Elizabeth; and lbequeath'
to my son Newit, at the death of my wife, that tract which she may
pfefe r to occupy. I wish it to be distinctly understood, that that
part of my estate which my son Hartwll has received, shall .be
valued,
considered
his, and as part
afor-ewish of
thamythestate.
my of his portion
est is as hwvrutmr
p couhy

houd ee toehrthe
sai7 lizbeh

iw

iholapty

bth

wpsh my executors, furthermore,
to remember that the town lots
laid off and
now
, hereafter to be laid of on
the aforementioned two hun-

478

SUPREME COURT.
Lane et aL v. Vick et al!

dred acres of land, should be sold to pay my just debts, or other efgagements, in preference to any other of my property, for the use and
benefit of all my heirs."
An inquiry which lies t the threshold 'of this investigation, is,
what was the meanink and intention of the testator in reserving the
two hundred'acres of land, "to be laid off in town lots?"
Did he intend this tract, of two hundred acres, should not pass by
his will, under the general description of "all.my lands?" Or did
he mean simply that it should be reserved from the use of his wife, in
the" event she selected the river tracts in preference to the Open
Woods tract? Or did he intend, as the majority of the court have
decided, that it should be reserved to be sold by his executors, for
the purposes of paying his just debts and other engagements,ic" and"
to increase the legacies of his .daughters? To the last construction
there is a very material objection. The power of the executors to
sell the lots laid off, and to be laid off, on the two hundred acres, is
not absolute, but- contingent. The testator did not direct that any
of his property, real or personal, should be sold for the purpose of
paying his debts, or for any other purpose. But his meaning andintention, as manifested by the language employed, is, that if, in the
administration of his estate, it should become necessary to sell any
portion of it for the payment of his debts or other engagements, he
wished his executors to remember that the t6wn lots then laid off,
and-thereafter to be laid off, should be sold "in preference to any
other of (his) propefty."
If the debts and other engagements could have been satisfied
without a sale of the'lots, the executors would have had no power
to self them -for any purpose whatever; and the words "for the use
and'benefit of all my heirs," would have been inoperative for the
purpose to which they have been applied; and the bounty, which it
is supposed by the courta. father's heart could' not withhold from
'his daughters, woitd have been
entirely defeated; and in that-event,
the interpolation of the word "and," which has beeii supplied by
the court, could not have conferred on the daughters the lots, nor
the proceeds of the sale of them. But conceding the power to sell
the lots for the payment of the testator's debts, do the words "for
the use and benefit of'all my heirs," give any authority to-the executors to. sell the remainder of the lots, after paying the debts, oi any
right to the heirs to receive the proceeds of such sale? .
The court seem to admit, by their reasoning,,tbat these words
alone give no right to the heirs to claim the proceeds, nor power to.
the executors to sell the remainder of the lots, and, therefore, they
have supplied the word "and," to unite the power granted to sell
.fbr the payment of debts, with the words "for the use and benefit
of-all my heirs," which, they say, completes the right to receive the
prQceeds. If the court have the right to- alter the will, and then.
give construction to it, they may make it.mean what they please.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

479

Lane et aL v. Vick et al.

But I deny the power of the court, in such a case as this, to add the
The rule rs understood to be this.: where there is a
word "and."
supposed mistake or omission, all the court has to do is to see whether it is possible to reconcile that part with the rest, and whether it
is perfectly clear, upon the whole scope of the will, that the intention
cannot stand with the alleged mistake or omission. Mellish v. Mellish, 4 Ves. 49. It appears to me these words are perfectly consistent with the other parts of the will, anf are by no means repugnant to the main intention of the testator, but perfectly consistent
therewith.
His intention, as manifested by all the provi ions of the will, appears to be, to divide his personal estate equally among his sons and
daughters and his wife, and to divide all his real estate, or lands,
equally among his sons. That he intended each son to take an equal
part of his lands, is proved by the direction to have 'each portion
(valued. That half of the Open Woods tract was not equal in value
to the two river tracts, excluding the two hundred acres to be laid
off into lots, is clearly proved by the will itself; because the testator'
gives his wife her choice of the Open 'Woods tract, or the two tracts
on the river; and whichever she selects is, at her death, to go to'
his youngest son, Newit, and the other to be divided between his
sons Westley and William; and he further directs that the part
should be valued, considered
nwhich his son UartweH had received,
theestate. Here is a clear ud
his, and as part of his portion of
portion
each s0n an
manifested
give to
•equivocal
of his real intention
estate; and
it is as to
clearly
manifested
thatequal
the specific
portions given re not equal. To maintain the construction gven
to the will by.the court, the two hundred acres are excluded from
the devise of all the testator's lands to his sons.' And the question
arises, and ought to have been decided, how are these p6rtions to be
equalized?- If the two hundred acres passed to the sons by the dethen a reasonably certain convise, subject to the payent of debts,
ting'ent means was aforded for equalizing the portions, by dividing
and vluing the lots not sold to pay debts, to mkke up deficiencies.
This view'lone is sufficient to-satisfy my'mind that all the lands
passed to the sons by the general words, "all- of my'lands, .all of
whaen
divided,
-valued, aid
I wish
which
Can'the
years
age ofand
twenty-one
as to be appraised,
Westley
my sonlands
the use and benefit of all my heirs," which in themselves
words "for'
contain nopositive words of grant, control the previous, 'positive,
and unbonditional,.grant of all his lands to his sons? Tt appears to
me to be impossible to give such controlling influence to such words,
upon any of the known -and establisned rules of construction; an~l
especially when they admit of a different interpretafion, by which
they .would stand in perfect harmony with the other provisions of

the

i.

The-accounts settled by .the executor, with the Orphafis' Court

480

SUPREME COURT.
Lane et al. v. Vick .et al.

and rwhich are'pait of-the record exhibited .a the bill bf complaint,.
show that betweeritenty-five thousand and thirty thousand,dollafs
of the debts 6f the estate weie paid by the proc-ceds of the cotton
crops; which proves that a large portion of the personal estate consisted: of slaves. - Is it not reasonable, therefore, to suppose the testator had in his mind the "disadvantages tliat would result to all his
childreniif he should leave his slaves liable to be sold for the paymenit of his ilebts-.when he ordered the lots, which were unpro ducfive, to be sold for that -purpose, "in preference to any. other of his
property" which was productive? Acting upon this vie of his affairs, is it at all surprising that'heshould have inserted in his will- even
by interlining, the words, "for thg-use and, benefit of all my heirs,"
-that being the reason which induced him to charge the debts upon
the town-lots?
"'But putting out of view all extraneous considerations, can the construction given by the cburt to this part of the will be sustained upon
principle? Executors have no authority'to sell real 'e'state, unless
the power to sell, and the. purpose of the. -sale,, are -expressed in
the will. Therefore the court bannot infer, from a power expressly
.grantedt6 sell the estate for one purpose, apower to sell it for anotfer.purpose not grantedi Hill v. Cook, 1.Ves, & Beam'es, 175. In
the-case undef'consideration, the only authority given by the will to
sell thetowAl lots,-,was for the payment of -debts; and there-the pow.er
bf.the executors to sell any portion of the estate termihated. When
they had-iold as many of the lots as.were necessary to pay the debts,
the remainder fell into the general devise -ofall the lands of the testator to 'his s6ns; and the purposes of the testator, in relation to his
real.- estafe, .wer accomplished, according' to his plain intention,
when all the provisions of the will are taken together. To reserve the remainder of thelots froni the general devise, and
to give effect to the interlined. words, different from their plain
meaning, in the connection in which they stand with the other provisions of the will; the court revive the exhausted power of sale;
and give capacity to all the heirs to take the proceeds of the sale of
the :remainder pf the lots, by inserting the conjunction "and" between the power to sell the lots for the payment of debts and the
int~rlined words; thereby changing the meaning of the whole sentence. ThisI certainly is -not construing the will.; but it'is making a
willi and giving' this.portion of the testator's estate to hi' daughters,
which he plainly intended for, anrd gave to, his sons.' ,
.This,will was brought'-in question before the High Court of Errors and Appeals of.the state of Mississippi, in the case of Vick and
others v. The Mayor and Alderman of Vicksburg, 1 Hw.l is.
Rep. 442- The question before-ttat courfva. whether the land in
controversy had been dedicated by Newit Vick, in his lifetime, to
public purposes, or passed to, and was vestid in'his devisees by his
will; "and ,it is a part of the, same landincQntroversy in the case

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

481

Lane et al. v. Vick et al.

before this court; the court of Mississippi having concurrent jurisdiction- of &he subject-matter with this court, decided,- that the
whole of the real estate was devised to the sons of Newit Vick, deceased; and that his daughters were entitled to no part of the lots,
nor any part.of the proceeds of the sale of them. According to the
Constitution and laws of the United States and previous decisions
of this court, I think this court'vas bound to follow the decision of
that court upon the c6nstru-tion of the will.
The 2d section of the 3d'article of the Constiition of the United
States declares, "The judicial power shall extend to all dases in
law and -equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of thd United
States, and treaties made or which shall be made under their authority; tv all cases affecting mbassado ,sotherpublic ministers, and
and mariti'me jurisdiction; to conconsuls; to all cases of adirty
sies
between
two.orthe
shallcitizens
be a patty;
to controverto which
United
troversies
more
stateosSteres
between
of difverent
states.
between citizens of the same state claiming lands under grants o
different states , and. between a/ state or the citizens thereof and
foreign, states, citizens, or ubjects." •In these three l tter classes
of cases, theej'urisdictionofof
the Unitd States is cncurrent with the staecourts. In this case it originated between cititens of different sttes,"and is, therefore, concurrent with the courts
of Mississippi. Before the jurisdiction here conferred'on the courts
of Ahe Umited £States could be exercised, it was necessary their
powers and authority should be estblished and dfined by law.
And accordingly, by, the 34th seceon of the act of Congreis of the
24th of September, 1789, it is enacted,." That the laws ofthe
several states, except where theseConstitution, treaties, or statutes of
the United.States shall otherwise require or provide, shall he rhgarded
as rules of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the
United t.States, in cases where they apply." The purposes for'whioh
jurisdiction was given to -the courts of the United States between
citizens of. diferent states in ordinary matters of controversy, between citizens of the same- state claicdeing lands under grants from
different states,
between
snd an alien and a citizen of a state, was to
give in each ofthese cases, at the option of the ilaintiff a tribunal;
presumed to be free from any accidental state prejudiceor partiality,
forAnd
the trial
of the
cause. defined the powers of the courts of the
when
Congess
United. States, they directed, that the laws of the several states
should be regarded as the rules of decision in stilts at common law,
in cases where they apply. And up n these principles, with few,
if any exceptions, has this, court acted from the commencement of
the governm
ent tte
prsent term of this court. That they
shoed continue so to act, is of great ".n ortance to the peace and
harmony of the people of the United States.
the state judicial
of
VOL. III.--6I

2 S

482

SUPREME COURT.
Lane et al. v. Vick et a].

tribunals establish a rule, governing titles to real gstate, whether it
aiise undek statute, deed, or will, and'this court establishes another
and a different nile, which of these two -rules shall prevail ? They
do not operate like two equal powers in physics, one neutralizing the
othdr,; but they prodiuce a contest for success, a struggle for victory; *and in such a contest it may easily be*foreseen -hich will
prevail.
The state courts have unlimited jurisdiction, over all the persons,
and property, real and personal, -'within the limits of the state. And
as often as-the courts of the United States have it in their power, by
their judgments, under their limited jurisdiction, to turn out of the
possession of real estate those who have been put into it by the
judgment of the highest court of-aplpellate jurisdiction of the state,
so often that possession will be restored by the same judicial state
power. To avert such'a contest, and in obedience to the act of
Congress before referfed to, this court have lai4 it down, in many
cases, as a sound and necessary. rule, that they should follow the
stmte decisions establishing rules and regulating titles to real estate.
And in the following cases they have applied the rule to the
construction of wills, -devising real estate. In Jackson v. Chew,
12'Wheat.. 162, the principle is fully maintained. In that case the
court say, " The inquiry is very much narrowed by hpplying the rule
which has uniformly governed this court, that where any principle
of law i establishing a rule of realproperty, has been settled in the
state courts, the same rule will-be applied by this court, that would
be 6stablished by the state tribunals. This is a principle so obviously just, aad so indispensably necessary under our system of governiment, that it cannot be lost sight, of." ,The question in that
case arose upon the construction of a will devising land in New
York. In the case of Henderson and wite v. Griffin, 5 Peters, 154,
the court say, "The opinion of the court i the case of Kennedy v.
Marih was an able one; it was'the judicial construction of the will
of Mr. Laurens, according to their view pf'the rules of the common
law in that state, as a rule-of property, and comes within the prind.
pie adopted in Jackson -v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 153; 167." These
cases are in strict conformity with the 34th section of the act of the
24th Sepiember- 1789, -above referred to.
There are many other decisi6ns of Uis court applicable to this
case; some of-them have followed a single decision -of a state
court, where 'it settled a rule of real property. And at the present
tnrm of this court, in the case of Carroll v. Safford, tleasurer, &c.,
it was held, that .it was not material whether it had been settled by
frequent decisions, or a single case. From these authorities, it is
plain, the jurisdiction of this court is not'wholly concurrent in this
case with the Supreme Court of Mississippi - but in power of judgment it is subordinate to that court, and, therefore, the construction

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

48a

°

Bla-qk et al.ov. Zacharie & Co.

given by that court to the will ought to. have been.the ride of construction for this court.
Mr. Chief Justice TAzy concurred in the opinion of Mi. Justice
MCKINLEY.*

Fau cis C. BLAcK

AmD JAmES CH m'x, PLAiNTiFFS iN mRtOR, v. J. W.
ZAcHARiE .&Co., DEFENDANTS.

When a creditor, residing in ouisiana, drew bills of eAchange upon his debtor,
residingia South Carolina, which bills were negotiated to a third person and
accepted by the'"deawee, the creditor had no right to lay an attachment upon
the property of-the debtor, until the bills had become due, -were dishonoured,
and taken up by the drawer.
By the drawing of the bills a new credit was extended to the debtor for the time
to which they run.
Thed laws of Lpuisiana, allowing attachments for debts notyet due, relate only
to absconding debtors, and do net embrace a case like the above.
The legAl title to stock held in corporations situated in Louisiana, does not pass
under a general assignment of property, until the transfer is compl'eted in the
mode'l&ointed out by the laws of Louisiana, regulating those corporations.
But the equitable title will pass, if the assignment be sufficient to transfer it by
the laws of the state in which the assignor resides, and if the laws 'of the
state where the qorporations exist do not prohibit the assignment of equitable
interests in stock. Such an assignment will bind all persons who hove
notice of itThe laws of Louisiana do not prohibit the assignment of equitable interests in
the state by residents of other states.
Personal property hasno locality. The law of the owner's domicil is to determine the validityof the transfer or alienation theieof, unless'there is som6
positive or customary law of the country where it is found to the contrary.

Tins case .was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States for East Louisiana.
It was an attachment issued :originally b, the Commercial Court
of New Orleans, (a state court,) against the goods and chattels,

lands and tenements, rights and mnoneys, effects and credits, of
Black, at the instance of Zacharie. & Co., and 'renoved, on the petition of Black, into the Circuit Court of, the United States.

Black resided in Charleston, South Carolina, and Zacharie & Co.
in New Orleans.

In 1837, Black was the, owner of five'hundred shares of the
capital stock of the New Orleans Gis Light and Bankihg Company,
and six hundred shares of the Carrollton Bank of New Orleans.
On the 31st. of May, in that year, he assigned to the Bank of South
* On the trial of this case, Mr. Justice Sron was
therefore, ruled the decision.

-absent;

four of the judges,

