JANUARY TERM, I45.

WLLIAXI HENDERISON, PLAMMFF rN ZRRoR, v.

JoHN ANDERSON.

This court adheres to the rule laid down in Walton v. Shelly, 1 T. k 296, sustained as it has been by the decision's of this court in The Bank-of the United
States r.Dunn, 6 Peters, 57; The Bank of the Metropolis v. Jones, 8 Peters,
12, and Scott v..Lloyd, viz., that a party to a negotiable paper, havidig given
it value -and currency by the sanction of his name, shall not afterwards
invalidate it by showing, upon his own testim6nv, that' the consideration on

which it was execht-d was illegal.

Tns case was brought up by writ of error from theCircuit Court
of the United States in and for the eastern district of Louisiana.
Anderson 'was a citizen of Kentucky, and William Hendersofi, of
Louisiana. Henderson was. a pariier. in the commeicial house of
John Hendersonand Co., carrying on business in the town nf Warrenton, Warren county, Mississippi.

On the 3d of February, 1837,-Thomas J. Green drew the followinr inland bill:
~
"Warrenton, February3d,- 1837.
"Exchnange forl
:37
'Exchange for $3795 -00.
."Twelve months after date of this rihy first of exchange, (second
of the same tenor and date unpaid,) pay to the order of Messrs.
John Henderson & Co. thirty-seven hundred and ninety-five dollars, value received, and charge the' same to.account'of
"'Your obedient servant,

- THQs. J. G=EN..

Briggs, Lacoste, & Co., Natchez."
It was ehdorsed by John Henderson, & Co. and D. G. Baflow &
Co., and passed into the hands of Andersom Being protested for
non-acceptance and non-payment, Andarson .instituted suit agminst
William Henderson, the partner, by way of petition, according to
the practice in Louisiana, as' follows '
"That the petitioner is holder and owner of a certain bill of exchatige, for.the sum of thirty-severi hundred aild ninety-five dollars,
.dravn by Thomas J. Green, endorsed and directed 'to Messrs.
Briggs, Lacoste & Co., Natchez, which said bill was dmwl-tb the
order, and was endorsed by John Henderson & Co., dated at Warrenton, in the state of Mississippi, on- the 3d February, 1837, payable twelve months after date, which said bill of exchange, on the
8th. of February, 1837, was 'protested for non-acceptance, and 6n
the 6th day of February, 1838, the day of maturity, was duly pro-tested for non-payment by James B. Cook,'a notary public, in the
city of Natchez, duly commissioned and-qualified, and that said
'John Henderson
Co. was, by said notary, duly notified of said
protest for non-acceptance, and for non:payment by, all of .which
will' appear by reference of said bill of exchange and protest thereof,
and said bill of exchange annexed is made a part thereof.
"
."At the. time said-bill was endorsed, petitioner avers that said
William Henderson-was a member of the late bommercial- firm of
CTo'Messrs.

VoL. mI.-

-

-

G

74

SUPREME COURT.
Henders.on v. Anderson.

John Henderson & Co., formerly doing business at Warrentdn,
under the said style and firma of John Henderson & Co., and as a
member of the said firm, he is now liable in solido to pay to peti.tioner the amount of said bill of exchaiige, with interest, cost, and
damages, and by the laws of the- state of Mississippi petitioner is
ntitled to five per cent. damages on the amount of said bill.
"Petition'er alleges further, that the -said William Henderson,
'though amicably requested, has neglected to pay the amount or any
part thereof, for Which he is indebted as aforesaid."
This petition was answered as follows:
"1Now comes the defendant in the above entitled cause, and; by
way of exception, says: that he is not bound too answer, theretoi
because he has not received, nor been served with- a true and exact
copy of the petition, -which.by law he is entitled to, and that he-has
not been legally cited to appear and answer herein. Wherefore he
prays judgment, to be dismissed hence.with his costs, &c.
",Ahd if the foregoina eiiception be overruled' he pleads the
general denial. He denies that he is in any maimer liable to pay
the bill of exchange sued on. He avers, specially, that he neither
authorized.
signed and endorsed said bill himself, nor in any way
the name of said firm of John Henderson & Co. to be. signed and
endorsed on the same; that it 'was so signed and endorsed as aforesaid by one John Henderson, without the knowledge and consent
of defendant, and without any authority whatever ; that such endorsement was made neither for the benefit, nor for any debt or
liability,.of the defendant or of said firm, nor was it mad"Within
the scope of the partnership powers, or on account of said firm;
but without any due. authority, and without the knowledge and
consent of the defendant, the said bill was signed and -endorsed as
aforesaid by said John Henderson, purely for the benefit and accommodation of- the*drawer, the said Thomas J, Green: of all which
the parties to said bill, and the holders thereof, before and after
maturity, had due notice. Defendant requires srict proof of every
allegation*in the petition.
"t Wherefore he prays judgment, with his costs, &c."
After sundry proceedings, a commission was issued to take the
testimony of John Henderson, the acting partner and endorser of
the bill, and the cause came on for trial in February, 1842. At the "
trial, the court excluded the evidence thus taken, and there was a
judgment for the plaintiff; but the following *bill of exceptions
being taken to the ruling of, the court, the decision, came up for
review.

"Be it remembered, that on the trial of the above entitled cause,
the defendant's counsel, in order to prove the allegations set forth
by the defendant in his answer, offered in. evidence the deposition
of one John Henderson, who, at the time of the drawing and endorsement of the bill of exchange sued on, was a copartnet with

JANUARY

75.-

TERMi 1W4.

Henderson v. Anderson.

•

defendant, the firm doing bushiness under the name and style of John
Henderson & Co.; and especially in order to prove that. said John
Henderson endorsed upon said bill the partnership name,-without
any authority whatever, without the knowledge or consent of defendant, and contrary to their aricles of co-partnership, and the course
of dealing of said firm.; that-it was so endorsed in the presence of
the plaintiff, purely for.the accommodation of the drawer, Thomas
J. Green, in discharge of a promissory, note held by the plaintiff
against said Green; that said bill was not en-dorsed as aforesaid, for
the accommodation, or on account of the said firm of John Henderson & Co., nor in any manner. for the benefit of said firm of John
Henderson & Co., nor in any matter in which said firm was interested; and that the plaimtiff, when said bill was so drawn, and endorsed, and delivered to him, was fully cognisant of all the abov
facts. The plaintiff's c6unsel objected to the receptiQn of.said deposition, on the ground that the said John Henderson was incompetent to testify to any fact tending to invalidate the said bill, policy
for the protection of coinmerce and the public morals. requiring the
rejection of such evidence. The court, after taking time to consider, sustained the objection, and rejected the deposition, -n the
ground taken, as aforesaid, by the plaintiff's counsel.
"To this decision of the court, the defendant takes thig his bill of
exceptions,, and prays that the same be allowed and sighed by the
Oourt."
Conrad,for the plaintiff in error.
This is an action by the holder of a bill of exchange against one
of the members of a commercial firm by which it purports to have.
been endorsed.
The endorsement is admitted. but, the defence is, that it was made
by one member of the firm, without the knowledge or consent of his
copartner, 'the defendant, solely for the accommodation of the
drawer, and in a matter in which the partnership had no interest or
concern whatever.
To prove these facts, the partner who made the endorsement of
the firm on the bill was examined under a commission, and his deposition, to be found at page 17 of the record, does fully establish
them.
This deposition, however, was objected to on the ground that,
being a party to the bill, he could not impeach it by his testimony.
The objection was sustained by the. court, and the deposition excluded. To this decision a bill of exceptions was taken, page 13
of the record, and the only question presented is as to the correctness of this decision.
As Henderson had no -interest in the event of the suit, his. general
competency is not denied; but it is said, on the authority of the
doctrine first distinctly laid down in Walton v. Shelly, that his tes-

76

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson v. Anderson.

timony is inadmissible so far as it goes. to establish that the endorsement made by him was not binding on his copartners.
.Apart from the satction which the doctrine, that a witness will
not be permitted to impeach his own acts, derives from judicial decisions, it is difficult to perceive on what rational grounds it can rest.
In either a moral or a legal point of view it seems equally untenable.
In a moral aspect, to confess afault, is in some degree to atone for
it; and what is under all circumstances a merit, becomes an imperative duty, when the concealment of a fault by the one who had
committed it would involve an innocent person in its consequences
In a legal point of view, the. doctrine appears equally unsound.
The civil law maxim nero allegans tupitudinem suam est audiendus, -invoked by Lord Mahifield in its support, ij manifestly misapplied. Its proper application is to pm-ties to the suit, not to witnesses. Its meaning is, that no man shall allege his &wn .turpitude
as the foundation of a claim ora right. It is equivalent to another
axioii in that system, ex turpi causa non nascitur actio, and is
analogous to the common law principle tat "no, one shall take advantage of his own wrong."
In fact, in all other cases courts of justice have adopted the opposite principle. The general rule*is; not pnly that a man may confess his own turpitude, but that he is bound to do so, whenever his
confession will not subject him to a criminal prosecution; and even
this exception, being established solely for the protection of the witness, may be waived by him. In criminal trials witnesses are every
day allowed to prove crimes in the commission of Which they aided
and abetted. In chancery, (which has borrowed the practice from
the civil law,) even parties may be compelled to disclose acts of
fraud and moral turpitude.
* -It was no doubt a conviction, on the part of -the English courts
that the rule was erroneous in principle and inconvenient in practice, that induced them first to limit its application to negotiable instruments, and finally.to abandon it-altogether. Jordaine v. Lashbrook, 7 Term Rep. 601.
In this country, in s6me of the states the rule has never been followed. In others, where it had been originally adopted, the courts
have been gradually receding from it." Stafford v. Rice, & Cowen,
23;'Powell v. Waters, 8 6oweh,. 673; Williams v. Walbridge,
3 Wendell, 415..
The rule is now universally held to apply only to negotiable paper.
This limitation of the rules is a virtual abandonment of the ground
on which it was originally founded, inaismuch as the impropriety or
indecency of allowing a man to contradict his own acts, can inno
manner depend on the form or character of the instrument thus sought
to be impeached.
The rule thus. restricted must rest, therefore, on another pinciple,
to wit, the public policy of protecting negotiable paper. Now on

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

77

Henderson v. Aaderson.

this point, I will observe, first, that if tfie holder received the paper
in good faith, he is sufficiently secured by the principle whidh protects such paper in the hands of a bond fide holder against all equion the contrary,
ties that may exist between the original parties. If,
he took the paper mald fide, there can be no good reason why he
should be protected, In the first hypothesis, the evidence would,
be irrelevant; in the second, the reason for its exclusion does not
exist.
There are, it is true, two exceptions to this remark, to wit, where
the defence set up is that the note or bill originated in a gaming or
usurious consideration. In these cases the instrument, even in the
hands of a bondfide holder, is tainted with the illegality of its.origin.
But is not this exception founded on considemtions of public policy?
If so, how can a rule which exdludes the evidence of the facts be
also founded on public policy? How can it be at the same time
politic to allow the consideration of negotiable paper to be inquired
into in these cases, and at the same time impolitic to prevent the
introduction of the only evidence by which, in the great majority of
cases, the facts can be established?
. At all events, if the object of the rule be to .protect negotiable paper in the hands of bond fide holders for a valuable consideration,
(and we apprehend it can hardly be desirable to protect any other,)
then the rule itself should be co-extensive with the object sought to
be attained. As the only cases, therefore, where the consideration
can in such cases be inquired into are those in whiclf usury or gaming
is set up as a defence,oit would be sufficient for all the public policy
of the rule to say, that a party to a negotiable instrunient should'not
be permitted -to prove that it originated in a gambling or usurious
consideration.
I have ventured on these general remarks in relation to the origin
of this rule, because the rule itself is of recent orioin, and the jurisprudence in regard to it, both in England and.in tiis country, is so.
fluctuating, that I do not consider it as, firmly established.
But we contend that the rule, even when carried as far as it has
ever been by this court, d'es not-apply to the present case.1. Inthe first place; for it to be applicable, the paper sought to be
attacked must not only be negotiable, bAt have been actually negotiated. U. S. v. Dunn, 5 Peters, 51; Same v. Liffler, 11 Peters, 91;
Blagg v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 3 Wash. C.C. R. 7; Baird r. Cochrane,
4 Serg. .& Rawle, 397:

Now the draft in the present case is still in the hands of a party to
the original transaction. ' In point of form, it is true that the present
holder is the assignee of the payee and endorser, but in point of fact
he was a party to the transaction in which it originated, and had full
kno*ledge of the purposes for which it was executed. It was only a
mode whereby the endorsers undertook to become sureties for a debt
due by the di-avers to the plaintif. Powell v. Waters, 8 Cowen,.690.
G2

78

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson t. Anderson.

2. Even supposing that the draft can be considered in a technical
sense as having been negotiated, the endorsee certainly took it mald
fide, and with a full knowledge that Henderson, in endorsing on it
the signature of his firm, was committing a fraud on his copartners.
Now, it is well settled that the rule does not apply to cases of fraud
or misconduct to which the holder was a party. Peterson v. Willing, 3 Dallas, 506; Langer v. Felton, 1 Rawle, 141; McPherson
v. Powers, 1 Serg. & Rawle, 102.
3. The draft was drawn and payable in the state of Mississippi.
Its nature and effect must, therefore, be tested by the laws of that
state. Now, the law of that state provides, in substance, that in all
cases where a promissory note or other obligation in writing has
been assigned, the defendant shall be allowed the benefit of all want
of lawful consideration, failure of consideration, payments, discounts,
and set-offs made, had, or possessed- against the same, previous to
notice of the assignment, any law,.usage, or custom in any wise to the
contrary notwithstanding, in the same manner as if the same had
been sued and prosecuted by the obligee or payee therein. Law of
June 25, 1822, sect. 12. See Howard &Hutchinson's Dig. p. 372.
By this law negotiable instruments are placed precisely on the
same foofing with all other, securities, and, therefcre, the distinction
on which alone the pinciple which prevents a party to an instrument
from impeaching it by his testimony rests, is unknown in that state.
The defence, in the present case, is want of consideration. Had the
suit been brought by the assignee of an instrument not negotiable,
the witness would unquestionably have been competent to prove
this fact. But by the laws of Mississippi the assignee of a note or
bill of exchange has no other or greater rights than the assignee of a
bond or other instrument not negotiable in its character. The witness is, therefore, as competent in the one as in the other. The
case is similar to tha of Baring v. Shippen, 2 Binney, 165.
4. The. le. fori must regulate the competency of witnesses, Story's Conflict of Laws, 526, sect. 635; and by the law of Louisiana
the witness was competent. Louisiana Code, art. 2260.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon a writ of error. to the Circuit Court of the :United States for
the eastern district of Louisiana.
This was an action instituted at law in the Circuit Court.for the
eastern district in the state above mentioned, by petition, according
to the modes of proceeding in the courts of that state, in the name
of the defendant in error, as endorsee and holder of a bill of exchange for $3795, against the plaintiff in error, as an endorser of
that bill.
The petition sets forth the facts following: That the petitioner is
the holder and owier of the bill in question, which was drawn by
one Thomas J. Green, at Warrenton, Mississippi, on the 3d of reb-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

79

Henderson v. Anderson.

ruary, 1837, directed to'Briggs, Lacoste, & Co., at Natchez, payable;
twelve months after date, to John Henderson & Co., by whom it
was endorsed. That on the 8th dy of February, 1837, this bill
was protested for non-acceptance, and on the 6th day of February,
1838, was duly protested for non-payment in the city 9f Natchez,
and that John Henderson & Co. were regularly notified 6f said protests for non-acceptance and non-payment. That at the time at
which the. said, bill was so endorsed, the.plaintiff in error was a
member of the Mrm of John Henderson & Co., then doing business
at Warrenton in Mississippi, and as a'member of that firm is liable
to the petitioner for the amount of the bill of exchdnge, with interest,
costs, and damages. That the petitioner is a citizen and resident
of the state of Kentucky, and the said William Henderson, a citizen
and inhabitant of the parish of Carroll, in the state of Louisiana.
Upon the aforegoing petition the plaintiff below prayed judgment,
with his costs, &c.
, The defendant below, in the first place, took an exception to thepetition on' the ground that he had not been served with a true copy
thereof, according to law, nor had been legally cited to appear, and
therefore prayed to be dismissed; secondly, he interposed what is
there styled "the general denial," corresponding with the general issue; and thirdly, he averred specially, that he neither signed nor
endorsed the said bill himself, nbr in any way authorized the name
of(Le firm of John Henderson & Co. to be signed and endorsed on
the same; that it was so signed.and endorsed by one John'Henderson without the. knowledge and consent of the defendant, and without any authority -whatsoever; and that such endorsemeilt was made
neither for the benefit, nor for any debt or liability of the defendant,
nor of the said firm.; nor was .it made within-the scope of the'partnership powers, or .on account of the firm; but that without any due
authority, and without the knowledge and consent of the defendant,
the the
billbenefit
was signed
endorsed J. Green,
said John
Hendersonall prely
for
of the and
said'Tomas
the drawerof
which

the partto

with

th

e holders thereof, before and
aer

•thematurit
thereof, had notice.
At a subsequent
day the exception first taken for the alleged want
of regular service of the petition, was waived by the defeiidant, and
the cause was continued; afterwards, upon the trial thereof, the defendant,
in order to proe the allegations in hi answei tathe pet "
tion, offered
'in evidence.the depositiondof John Henderson, who, at
the
f time of the drawing and edoserient of the bill of exchange
suedon, was a copartner with the defendant in the firm, doing busi'ness
under the name and style of John Henderson & o.: thi evidence
beingname
designed
that John Henderson endorsed the
artnership
upon to
the show
bill without
authority, without the knowedge 5'consent
and contrary to their articles of
copartnership
andofto the
the defendant,
course of their
dealings;. andthat it was so

80

SUPREME COURT.
Hendjerson v. Anderson.

endorsed, in the presence of the plaintiff purely for the accommodation of the drawer, Thomas J. Green, and not for the accommodation, nor on account of, nor in miy manner for the benefit of the
firm of John Henderson & Co. The reception of this deposition
was objected to 6n the ground that John Henderson, as a member
of the firm by 'whom and at the time the endorsement was made,
was incompetent to "testify to facts tending to invalidate the bill;
the court sustained this -objection, and. rejected the deposition of
John Henderson. To.the ruling of- the court on this .point the defendant took an exception, which was reserved to him.
The exception thus taken presents the whole controversy in this
case, which, controlled by principles heretofore ruled by this court,
would seem to be limited within a very narrow compass. The inquiry hbw far a party'to a negotiable instrument maybe heard in a'
court of la.w to impeach or invalidate that instrument'in the hands
of another, is one which, has led to considerable disrussioii and -to
different, conclusions in the courts both of England and in this
country.. In -the case of Walton,- assignee, &c., V. Shelly,, 1 T. R,
296, the Court of King's Bench decided, that a party to a negotiable
paper, having given it value and currency by the sanction of his
name, shall not afterwards Invalidate it by showing, upon his own
testiniony, that ihe consideration on which it was e'xecuted -was illegal. Subsequently, by the same court, this rule was so far relaxed
or abrogated as to permit the impeachment of such an instrument by
persons standing in the same relation to it. Vide Jotdaine v.Lashbrook) 7 T. R, 601. ' Amongst the different states of our union the
decisions of the Court of King's Bench on either side of this question have been ,dopted. 'In this court the rule laid down, in the
case of Walton v.Shelly has been Qdmitted and adhered to with a
ithiformity which establishes it as the law of the court. Thus, in the
case of the Bank of the'United States v. Dunn, 6 Peters, 51, it was
enforced in an action by the holder of a note against an endorser, in
which an attempt-was made to impeach the note upon the testimdny
of a subsequent endorser; in the case of the Bank of the Metropolis
v. Jones, 8 Peters, 12, in which the maker of a note was deemed
-an incompetent witness, in an action by the holder, to festify to facts
in discharge of the liability of the endorser; and in the case of Scott
v.Lloyd, the decision of this court, though not directly upon the
same point, may be regarded as approving the rule established by
the cases previously adjudicated. The judgment of the Circuit
Court for the astem district of-Lonisiana now under review being
fully sustained by these authorities, that judgment is hereby afermd.

