J.ANUARY TERM,1845.

515

Camden v. Doremus et al.

-therefore, of iopinion, that the district judge erred in directig the
jury that the delivery of the stock was-not complete unless the
traisfer ws.
entered upon the books' of the banks. That was -true
as to the absolute legal title, but-it did not prevent the equitable title
from passing to and bedoming completely vested in the assignee
under.and in virtue of.the assignment, so as to bind the attaching
creditors, as soon as they had notice. thereof, and in -likenianner the
banks, as soon as hey had -noticethereof.
Upon both groinds rtherefore, stated in the exceptions, the judgment of the Circuit Court is reveised, and the cause remanded to
that court with directions to "award a venire facias de novo.

XonN B. CAxDkx, PLAInTFr iN EIton, v. Tirois C. Donaiu,, Cw
N uLs R. SUtPAX, JANEs SuYDAM, AND JON M. NixON, DsaNwANTS

W Enovt

Where a general objectiQn is made, in the court below, to the reception of testimony, without' stating thie grounds of the objection, this court considers- it
as vagne and nugatory; nor ought it-to have bern tolerated in the court below.
Where at, the time of the endorsement and transfer of a negotiable note, an
agreement was made that the holaer should s~nd it for collection~to the bank
at which it was, on its face, made-payable, and In the event of its not being
paid at maturity, shotld use reasonable and due diligence to collect it from
th drawer and -prior endorsers before resorting to the last endorser, the
,.holder is bound to conditions beyond those which are implied in the ordinary.
transfer and receipt of commercial instruments.
Evidence of the general custom of'banks to give previous notice .to the payer,
of the time when riotes will fall die, was properly'rejected, unless the witness
-could testify as to the practice of the jarticular bank at which the note was
made payable.
A presentment and demand of payment of the note, at maturity, within bank-.
Ing hours, at the bank where the note was made payable, was a suffidient
compliance with the contract to send it to the bank for collection.
The record of &,suit brought by the 'holder against the maker and pxior endorsers was proper evidence of.reasonable and due diligence to collect the
amount of 'the note from them; and it was a proper instruction, that if the
jury believed that the prior endorsers had left the state and-were -insolvent,
the holder of thenotewas 'not bound tosend executions to the 6ounties where/
these endorsers resided af the institution of the suit. The diligent and -honest prosecution of a suit to judgment with a roturn of
islla bona, has always been regarded as one of the extreme tests of due diligence.
And the ascertainment, upon, correct and sufficient proofs, of entire and notorious insolvency, is recognised by the law as answering the demand of due
diligence, and as dispensing with the more dilatory evidence of a suit.
If the holder cannot obtain a judgment against the maker for the whole amount
of the note, in consequence of the allowance of a set-offas between the maker
and one of the prior endorsers, this is no bar to a full recovery against the
last endorser, provided the holder has been guilty of no negligence.

5SUPREME

COURT.
Camden v. Doemus et al.

Tmis case was brought up, by writ -of error,.,from the Circuit
Court'of the United-States for the district of Missouri.
The deenldants in error were citizens of the state of New York
and partners in trade uner the name and style of Doremus, Suydams and Nixon. The plaintiff, in error was the surviving partner
of the mercantile house of John B.'and Marbel Camden, which carried on business at St. Louis-under the name and firm of J. B. and
M. Camden. The plaintiff in error was sued in.the court below as
endorser of the following promissory note.
On the 8th of June, 1836, Ewing F. Calhoun executed this note;
virz. :

"$4219 90.
"c Twelve months after date, I-promise to pay Judah Barrett, or
order, four thousand two hundred and nineteen dollars and ninety
cents, negotiable and payable at the Commercial Bank of Columbus, June 8, 1836. EwnG F. CA.HouN,
c'Mississppi + 1809."
Columbus, Mississippi."
Which note' was enaorsed by Barrett to Sterling Tarpley, or order,
by him'to J. B. and M. Camden, or order, and by them to Dorpmus,
Suydams', and Nixon, or order.On the 22d of August, 1836, the plaintiffs and defendant entered
into the following agreement:
"JNew York, .ugdsr 22d, 1836.
"Memorandum of an agreement-and trade made by and between
Doremus, Suydams and Nixon, of the city of New York, of the one
.part, and J. B. & M. Camdeui, of the city of St. Louis, of the other
part, witnesseth: Whereas, the sai Camdens have this day sold and
assigned unto the said Doremus, Suydams and Nixon, a note for four
thousand two hindred and nineteen _V dollars, payable twelve
months after date, and dated the eighth day of Jime, 1836, and negotiable and payable at the Jommercial Bnk Qf Columbus, Miss. Executed by Ewing F. Calhoun to Judah Barrett, and endorsed by
the said Judah Barrett and Sterling Tarpley and J. B. & M. Camden. Now, it is expressly understood and ageed by the contracting parties, that -the said Doremus, Suydams. and Nixon, are to send
the' said note to the said Commercial Bank of Columbus, Mississippi,
for collection, and in the event of its not being paid at maturity,
they are to use reasonable and due diligence to collect it of the
drawer and two endorsers befote they call upon the said Camdens;
but in the event of its not being made out of themr then the said
Camndens bind and obligate themselvps, sb soon as'informed of,the
fact, to pay the said Doremu's, Suydams and Nixon, the principal of,
the said note, together with its interest and all legal costs they may
have incurred in attempting its collection.
J. B. '& M. CAMDEN,
DoRnus, SunDAxs & NixoN."

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

-517

Cainden v. Doremus et a."
The note not being paid at maturity, suit was brought b the
endorsers against the plaintiff ih error as surviving partner of the
endorsers J, B- and M. Camder.
.Upon the trial of the cause, the plaintiff offered to read in evidence sundry depositions, and also a voluminous. record, which are
all set -forth in full in the first bill of exceptions, but which it is impossible to insert here on account of their great length. They were,
1. The deposition of Thomas B. Winston, that he presented the
note at the Commercial Bank of Columbus, and denmanded .payment thereof, which Was refused; that payment whs demanded on
the 10th of June,1837, because the day of payment fell on Sunday;
that it was protested, and notices thereof sent to the first, second,
and third endorsers.
S2. The deposition'of Ewing F. Calhoun, proving hiis own signature; the handwriting, of the first and second endorsers; that he
was sued at the first court uftei the note became due ; that the suit
was prosecuted as diligently as possible to a judgment and.execution4
that deponent continued to .reside "inLowndes county, Missssippil,"
but that at the rendition of the judgment Barrett' resided-in South
Carolina) and Tarpley in Texas; that Barrett and Tarpley were both

insolvent, and had no property within, the state of Mississippi, outof which. to make the judgment, -or any part thereof; -that at the
trial deponent was allowed a set-off. against Tarpley, of about
$1500, which Tarpley owed deponent at th6 time 'of the commencement of the suit; and before he received notice of Tarpley's endorsement.
. The deposition of Samuel F. Butterworth, that the suit was
prosecuted as diligently as possible to judgmerit- and, execution;
that at October term) 1838, a verdict was rendered for the plaintiffs;
which was -set aside;_ that in April, 1839, another verdict was rendered, which was also set aside; that in December, 1839; a verdict
was "rendered 'for only $3498 46: upon which a erfo-a.= was
issued- the statutes of the state not authorizing process against the
person; that no property could be found out of which theexecuti6n
or any part thereof could be made.
4. A document purporting to be a transcript of the record of thesuit spoken of above, showing its progress up to .the final return of
the sheriff, which was as follows: "The within named Ewing F.
Calhoun, Judah Barr~tt, and Sterling 0. Tarpley, have no goods or
'chattels,' lands or tenements,'within my county, whereof I can make-the sums within mentioned, or any part thereof.' March 28th,
1842."'

-

Each one of these papers was severally objected to by the-de.
fendant, but the, court overruled the objectibn, and permitted. them:
to be read in evidence. The admissiori of these four papers constituted the ground of the first bill of exceptions.
Bill of exceptions No. 2.

2X

518

$-UPREME COURT.
Camden-v. Doremu's et al.

" Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause, the plaintiffs,
in addition to the evidence in the former bill of exceptions in this
case contained, examined Pardon D. Tiffany-as a witness,' who testified, that shortly before this suit was brought, as well as ifter, lie
had conversations withfthe defendant-in relation to the claim of the
plaintiffs against him; and the defendant told th6 witness that he
had transferred the note in question in the present action to the
plaintiffs, for goods purchased -from them, and that at the time, he
transferred the note to the plaintiffs he was indifferent whether they
took it or not, as he considered s6me of the parties thereto asgood
as George Collier, (who is known to the court and jury-as a very
rich man.) Witness did not know whether defendant saw the note
or not. The witness received a copy of the record of the suit in
Lowndes-county, Mississippi, brought by the plaintiflh against Ewing
F. Calhoun, the maker-of the note, and Judah Barrett and Sterling
Tarpley, the endorsers; bit witesg could not say whether he received the copy from Mr. Adams, the agent of the plaintifs, or from
the defendant, or from Mr. Ganiber, -the counsel of the .defendant.
The" defendant in his conversation with witness was aware -of the
nature of the plaintiffs' claim against him, and objected to the
claim, alleging that the plaintiff; had not used due diligence to coIlect the amount of the note he did not say that if he were satisfied
that diligence had been iised 'he'w6uldpay the claim; but he did
say, that he was not bound -to pay, and. would not pay the claim;
but made'no other objection to th'e claim 6ut want of diligence

The Plaintiffs; next gave in -evidence an act of the 1egislature
of the state of Mississippi, entitled (I an act to abolish imprisonmentfor debt," apprbyed Februaty"16th, 1839, -whichact"the parties
here in open court agree may lfe read in any court in wich this
cause may.be pending, from' the printed statutes vf the state of
Mississippi.
The plaintiffs then prbved the handwriting of the defendant to the
following letter addressed to the plaintiffs, and read the same in evidence to the jury in the words following:
" Saint Louis, October 24th, 1839.
"Messrs. DoREMuS, SuYD-s & Nxxox, "New York:
S"Gnr.Ts :-Your favour of the I1th inst. is received, and contents
noted. It is quite out of our power to send. you any New Orleans
bills for your note on E. F. Calhoun. - We trust you will before
long receive a judgment for th'e entire debt, interest and cost, and
that you will find by the virtue of an execution that ' insolvency
has not passed upon them all.' Those who have gone to Texas
may ybt make a great rise in that fine country. We regret that the
note has been so difficult of collection. We scarcely know which,
you or we, made the worst trade; we-have many of the goods on
Your friends,
hand we got for it.
"J. B. & M. CAhmm.:

JANUARY TERM, I845.

619

Camden v. Dorem-us et al.

cCYour message to Mr. Homans,- cashier, has been attended to,
and delivered."
It was admitted by defendants, counsel, that the endorsements
on the note iven in evidence were filled up in the handwriting of
Josiah Spalding, the counsel of the. plaintiffs in this action, for the
purposes of this suit. It Was also admitted that the laws of.the state
of New York placed the liability of endorsers upon. promissory notes
on the same footing-with the liability of endorsers upon inland bills
of exchange under the general law merchant;
The plaintiffs having here closed their case, the defendant produced one William C. Anderson" as a witness, who, being sworn,
iestified that he had been employed in seyeral banks, and had conducted on in St. Louis himself;.that the practice in banks in relation to notes deposited with'them for collection, was to give notice
to the payer of the note that it was in thie bank, and When it would
become due; that .the effect on the credit 6f a payer, .of a failure to
pay the not6 wheii it be6ame due, was dierent in eastern and westem banks. In banks af the .east, paper deposited for collection was
considered almost as sacred as paper discounted by the banks, and a
failure to pay would stop the accommodation of the payer at the
bank; -but in the western banks, the effect of permitting collection
paper to lie over was not of much consequence to the credit of the
payer. The defendant's counsel having asked the witnfess, whether
-a note presented at a bank for payment on the last day of grace, by
a notary public, would .be considered as having been sent to the
bank for collection, within the meining of the contract between plain-.
tiffs and defendant, the question was objected toby the plaintiffs'
counsel, and the bourt not only refused to allow'the question to be
answered, but rejected MIl testimony given by the witness, or which
might be given, In relation to the practice of banks on notes deposited for collection, unless the witness could testify as to the practice
or usage of the Commercml -Bank of Columbus, mentioned in the
note of Calhoun; to which opinion of the court the defendant, by
his counsel, excepts.
Instructions asked by defendant.
"The defendant, by his counsel, moved- the court to instruct the
jury, that the plaintiffs were bound to send the note 6f Ewing F.
Caloun, endorsed by -Judah Barrett and Sterling Tarpley, to the
Commercial Bank o7 Columbus, Mississippi, for collection; and
that, unless it is proved'to the satisfaction of the jury that this was
done by the plaintiffs, they must fiid for the defendant; which instruction was given to the jury-by the court, with this explanationThat if the -jury believes the note was presented at the bank, and
had [?] there,.by the agent of the plaintiffs, at the banking hours on
the day it fell due, so as to be a valid demand on the maker, then
it was duly at the bank, as required by the contract sued on. To
which explanatory instruction the defendant, by his counsel, except6.

520

'SUPREME COURT.
CO m-den v. Dbremus et ,al.

* "The defendant, by hih couusel, furth-efrmoved the court t, instruct
the jury, that the plaintiffs were boundto use diligence by suit against
Calhoun, the maker of the note, and Barrett auid Tarpley, the en;
dorsers thereof, in order to collect the money; and that if-the plaintiffs-neglcted to prosec"te their action with diligence against either
of said partiesthe defehidant is not responsible on his endorsement
of the note in question; which instruction was givenby the court.
"The defendantby his counsel, then moved the court to instruct
the jury, that the record from the Circuit Court of Lowuides county,
given in evidence, does not show due diligence by Suit against Calhoun, the maker, and Barrett and Tarpley, the enorsers, of the note
in question; which instructiin the court refused'to give, and in lieu
thereof instructed -the jury, that, sb far ds the record gobs, it does
show due diligence on part of the plaintiffs; and if the jury believe
from'the evidence, given in addition to the record, that the two endorsers had left the state of Mississippi, and were insolvent, and had
left no property in that state, at the time the judgment was rendered,
that the "plainiffs wereiiot-bound -to cause executions to be sent to
the counties where the endorsers respectively resided at the time they
were sued. To which opinions of the court, in refusing the instructfon asked by the defendant aslast above-mentioned, and in giving
the instruction in lieu thereof which was given byothe. ourt;the defendant,. by his counsel, excepts.
- "The defendant, by his counsel, tbeft moved the court to instruct
the jury, that the plaintiffs, under the law of Mississippi, were entitledto a judgment against Tarpley for the full amount of 'the note,
notwithstanding'any p.ayment or-set-off between'Calhoun, he maker
of the note, and Tarpley, the endorser- and that, -if the plaintiff
'have neglected to assert their right to such judgment, and'have suffered a judgment by their neglect to pass for'a smaller amount, the
defendant is discharged by such .neglect for all accountability-for the
sum thus lost; -which instructions the couit refused to give, -because
the record from Mississippi furnished all th&evidence on the subject
to which this instruction refers, and no negligence appears from said
record in prosecuting the suit against Tarpley; to which opinion'ofthe court the defendant, by his counsel, excepts. And the defendant, by his counsel, prays the court to sign and seal this his bill of
exceptions and that the same, may be iiade part of the record, which
[L. S.]
J. CATRON,
is dofie.
R. W. WELS, [..s-1
John J. Hardin;for plaintiff in error.
Z. Cotlins Lee, for defendants in error.
Hardin'sargument-was as follows:
The points now arising for the consideration of the court, are: •
1. Were the instructions asked improperly refdsed; and those delivered in lieu thereof improperly given?

JANUARYTERM, 1845.

021

Camden v. Doremus et a!.

-2. Were the depositions, or any one of tem,. improperly permitted, to be read in evidence?
3. Does the record from Mississippi show the use of reasonable
and due diligence?
The contract was not complied with, by defendants in error, in
this:
They were to CCsend the said note to the Commercial Bank of Columbus, Mississippi, for. collection."
This they did not do, and
there is no evidence that the bank ever had it for collection. It is
true this note was protested for non-payment on the last day of grace;
but there is a wide difference between sending a note to a bank for
collection, and merely pregenting it for payment on the last day of
grace. Banks, universally, are collecting agents; they always give
notice of the time of payment, and of the amounts due, to the debtors whose notes are left with them for collection. It is an injury to a
man's credit, and not unfrequently destroys his business character,
not to provide the means of paying a note left with a bank for collection, and of ivhich he has been notified. These reasons must'
have operated with plaintiff in error' in inducing him to require the
note to be sent to the bank for collection. Calhoun, as appears from
the redord, lived in the town where the Columbus Bank was situated;
and if he had been notified that the note was left in the bank for col,
raction, he might have had an opportunity of providing for its liquidation. Nor will it do to say that the presentation of the note for
payment was the same' thing in substance as sending it to the bank
for collection. The plaintiff in error did not think so, and at any
rate he has required the stipulation that the note should be sent to
the bank for collection by defendants in error; and the defendants
in error have no right to say that, although they did not comply)
they did wvhat amounts to'nearly the same thing. The sending the
note to the bank for collection was a condition precedent to the liability of plaintiff in error, and should be shown to have been strictly
complied with by defendants in error.
Suppose, for instance, as is the fact, though it does not appear on
the record, that the note was sent-to the Columbus Bank of Georgia,
and did not reach the agent of defendants in error in Mississippi
until the last day of grace, when it was forthwith protested.. This
was not a compliance with the letter or spirit of the contract;
In this view of the case, it was proper to prove what was the
usage of banks with regard to paper left with them for collection,
and the testimony of W. C. Anderson, page 519, was therefore pertient. This tesimony was excluded by the court, and was'therefore error.
The first instruction asked by the plaintiff ini error.in the court
below was, therefore, proper; and was erroneously refused.
The depositions were improperly permitted to be read.
1st Objection. They were taken before a "judge of the ninth

VoL
. 1I -66

2x2

52-2

SUPREME COURT.
Camden v. Doremus et aL

judicial disttict of Mississippi." The law of 1789 makes no menton of such an officer as authorized to take depositions. Ifit is
said that such judges were judges of a "Court of Common Pleas,"
within the meaning of that law, it is arswered, that if so, that fact'
should appear affirmatively in the certificate of authentication. No
evidence aliunde being introduced, the deposition itself should
contain the complete evidence that it was taken by a legally authorized officer. 1 Peters, 355.
2d Objection. The depositions were taken de 4ene esse, and the
certificate does not comply. either with the letter or spirit of the law.
The 30th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 provides for taking.
such depositioni when the witness rbsides more than a hundred
miles from the place of trial, upon giving due notice of the time
and place of taking the deposition "to the adverse party, or his
attorney, as either may be nearest, if either is within a hundred
miles of-the place of caption."
This law, being in derogation of the common law, must be strictly complied with. 1 Peters, 355; -3 Cranch, 297.
The certificate of the judge attached to each one of the depositions, states that no noiification was given to plaintiff in error of the
taking of the said depositions, "because neither- the said John B.
Camden, nor his counsel, live within one hundred miles," &c.
It was decided by"the Supreme Court, 3 -Cranch, 297, that in
taking a deposition under a ddimus lPotestatem, the term "attorney," used in the Virginia statute, meant an attorney in- fact, and
not an attorney at law. The words of the Virginia sttitute-sde
Tate's Digest, p. 2103 sects. 18 and 15--are, on ."giving notice to
the adverse party, his attorney, or agent."
'The inference from analogy, and from the decision in 3 Cranch,
297, is irresistible, that the term "1attorney," used in the 30th section of the law of 1789, means an attorney in fact, and not an attorney at law.
It therefore would be nocoiipliance with the law to certify that
"1neither the adverse party, nor his atto-rhey at law, live within one
hundred miles," &c. It seems to have been the idea of the judge
who made the authentication, that the law of 1789 meant an attorney at law. But even it the law was construed to mean an attorney
at law, the -word 11 counsel," used in the certificate, does not meet
its requisition. A counsel and an attorney are two distinct legal
officers. - Their duties may be, but are not necessarily, discharged
by the same person. It is the province of an attorneyto .prepare a
case, by making up the pleadings, .taking depositions, &C.; whilst
the counsel in the cause manages-it in court after the case is prepared by the attorney to his hand. The plaintiff inerror might not
have had a counsel within a hundred miles, and yet have had an
attorney at law. But as a counsel is neither an,attorney at law or
an attorney in fact,-non constat, but that the plaintiff in error had an

JANUARY TERM,14.

523

Camden v. Doremus et aL

attorney living within one hundred milks, and the defeidants in
error failea to give him notice, and therefore have had the authenticati6n so made as to prevent this fact from appearing. The law
being in derogation of a man's common law rights, and fife depositions being taen ex parte, the authentication should exclude every
conclusion which could in reason be made against the legality -and
formality of taking the deposition. 1 Peters, 355. They should,
therefore, have been excluded from the jury.
3d Objection. The deposition of Thos. B. Winston should have

been'excluded, because he was not- sworn to testify "the whole
truth."1 He was sworn "1tcr testify the truth, and fiothing else but
the truth." Now, the '30th section of the act 6f 1789, authopriz-

in the taking,.of these depositions, expressly provides that "1the
witness is to be carefully examined, and cautioned, ahd sworr
or affirmed, to testify the whole truth." This was not done, and
the deposition, therefore, should have been excluded. This is analogou' to the case where a witness does not answer the general
interrogatory, " Do you-know any thing further ?" "Such a neglect
is sufficient to vitiate the deposition.- 3 Wash. 109.
4th Objection. The deposition of S. F. Butterworth'should have
been excluded for imperfection or diminution. It begins by stating,
" That the annexed note was sued," &c.; and no note is annexed,
or set out in the deposition. Nor could any one tell who were the
parieg to the note from any thing which is contained in the-deposition, for their names are not even mentioned. The co.urt cannot
tell whether it was the note here sued on that the witness had before
him, and intended to have annexed to his deposition, or whether it
was not an entirely different instrument.
This defect cannot be supplied by reference to the deposition of
Winston, for that is a distinct deposition, and was taken at a different time-one being taken on 15th January, and the other on 17th
February, 1842. Each deposition must be perfect in itself.
If the depositions are excluded, there is no evidence whatever of
any diligence. If the deposition of T. B. Winston, the acting notarypublic, is excluded, there is no testimony to show that the note
was even pksented for non-payment at the Columbus Bank. This
being required by the contract, the other, testimony would not be
sufficient to support the judgment. But the fact of permitting one
improperly taken deposition to be read -to the iurv is sufficient to
reverse the judgment.
The court erred in refusing the third instruction asked by plaintiff
in error, which was substantially, that the record from Lowndes county does not show due diligence by suit, and also in the instruction
given in lieu thereof by the co~rt. - First. The suit in Lowndes county, Mississippi, was instituted by defendants in error, against maker,
and two first endorsers of the note here sued on; under a provision
in the statutes of Mississippi. Howard and Hutchinson's statutes

524

SUPREME COURT.
Camden v. Poremus et aL

of Mississippi, 597, sect. 33, authorizing this mode of'instituting.
suit. A subsequent section of same law provides, (sect. 35, Howard and Hutchinson, 596,) "The court shall receive the p lea of
non-assumpsit and no other, as a defence to the merits in'all suits
brought in pursuance of this act, and all matters of difference may
be given in evidence under the said plea. And it shall be lawful
for the jury to render a verdict ainst part of the defendants, and
in favour of the others, if the evidence before them require such a
verdict, and the court shall render up the proper judgments in such
verdicts against the defendants, which judgments an verdicts shall
not be reversed, a nulled, or set aside for want of form."
. Sect. 41, same act and. page, provides, that defendants shall not
sever in their pleas to the-merits of the action.
Another act of Mississippi, Howard and Hutchinson, 374, sect.
1:2, provides, that 'the defendant shall Je allowed the benefit of
any payment, discount, or, et-off, made, had, or possessed against
-the same, (any assigned note or bill of exchange,) previous to the
notice of the assignment."
These provisions are innovations on the common law, ana were
evidently intended to create a new practice in pleadings,- trials, and
rendering up jidgments. If it is not so, then-the set-off of the
maker of the D,te, Calhoun, against the second endorer, Tarpley,
was all wrong, and there was a total want of diligence in defendant
in error, in not taking th case to the appellate court and having it
there decided, and in permittihg the- case to be continued for three
years, for an improper defence in the Circuit Court.
Admitting, then, that it was proper for Calhoun to claim his setoff against Tarpley, it is clear that judgment should have been rendered against Calhoun for the amount of note and interest, after
deducting the amount of-the set-off. But it is equally clear, that as
Tarpley endorsed the note without crediting thereon the amount of
the set-off, and without giving notice that there existed any such
set-off, that judgment should have been - rendered against him for
the full amount of the note and interest.
le 35th section provides
expressly for shch cases.- And without such a provision, and 4
strict compliance -with the law under it, most flagrant injustice
would be done in numerous cases, and especially n the present
instance. Tarpley endorses the note to -plaintiff* in error, without
notice of any set-off. Plaintiff in error endorses it to defendant in
error, on the faith of Tarpley's solvency. Defendant in eiTor sues
Calhoun and Tarpley, and takes a judgment against both, for the
amount due from Calhoun to Tarpley, and wholly neglects to take
- a judgment for the amount really and justly due by Tarpley, as the
law authorized. If plaintiff in error now pays up the note and
interest, and goes back on Tarpley, this judgment against Calhoun
* and Tarpley, for less than what Tarpley was legally liable for, will
be a bar to a recovery for a greater sum. The defendant in error

IANUARY TERM, 184.

525

Camden v. Doremus et aL

having thus failed to obtain a judgment as he iould have done for
the whole amount due, and thils having prejudiced plaintiff in error,
there was not due diligence used.
The 36th section of the statute of Mississipli, Howard and Hutchinson, 596, provides, that "new trials shall alone be 'granted to
such defendants as the verdicts may have been wr6ngfully rendired
against, and judgments shall be rendered against all the other defendants in pursuance of the verdict." It appears a verdict was
rendered on the 17th October, 1838, against all three of the de-,
fendants, Calhoun, Barrett, and Tarpley, for $4102 '77, and.judgment rendered thereon. On same page, it appears, that at same
time 1,'
the defendant, E. F. Calhoun, moves the court to grant a
new trial, &c." On page 28, the case is docketed' "Doremus, Suydam and Nixon, v. Ewing.F. Calhoun ;" and it states, "thereupon
came on the motion of the defendant for a new trial, &c.," which
motion was sustained. This motion was made by one defendant,
the reasons assigned are personal to himself, and the new trial is
granted him on his motion. According to the 36th section above,
judgment should have been rendered against Barrett and Tarpley,
the- endorsers, who did not join in the motion for a new, trial, and
who had 'no. possible defence against the note. Yet defendant in
error neglected tor
take any such judgment. And the case goes on
as though they'were entitled to, and had granted to them, a new
trial, and no final judgment is rendered until 27th December,.1839,
more than a year after, whel)..'hese defendants had moved out of
the state, as appears by the record. This is a clear case of a neglect of due diligence. See also a similar motion by Calhoun. *
A similar neglect appears in another part of the record. Another
statute of Mississippi, Howard and Hutchinson, 616, provides:
S"Sect. 11. Every new trial at law shall be on such terms and,
conditions 'as the court shall direct; and no more than two new
trials shall be granted to either party in the same cause." Now
the record shows that three new trials were granted in this case.
The first verdict and new frial was granted 21st October, 1837.
The second on the 17th October, 1838. The third on 19th April,
1839, and the fourth and last trial was, h-d on 27th December,
1839. All these new trials were granted on mQtion of defendant
Calhoun; and after two were granted, it was error in the court in
Mississippi, and it was gross neglect in defendants in error that they
did not have it reversed. The Supreme Cburt of the state of Mississippil 1 Smedes and Marshall, 421, have expressly decided that
the court cannot grant more than two new trials. .By the neglect
of defendants in error, a gross 'injury is done plaintiff in error in
this: On the third trial, the~verdict was for $4236 26, and on the
last trial it was only for $3498 45; thus decreasing the amount
which plaintiff ,in error could thereafter recover againsc the maker
and two first endorsers.

526

SUPREME COURT.
Camden t. Doremus et al.

Again: There was not due diligence shown in the record in this.
There was never any service of process on defendants, Barrett and
Tarpley, the first and. ,econd endorsers. There never was d writ
issued to the county where Tarpley resided. They never appeared
in court and entered their appearance; nor do any attorneys enter
their auppearance for them. It is tiue the pleas, which are most
carelessly drawn, use the words "the said defendants say," &c.;
but nowhere does it appear that they authorized an appearance; and
the whole defence is conducted by the attorneys for Calhoun. It
is manifestly improper that this loose mode"of pleading in the name
of defendants, by Calhoun's attorney, should be construed into an
appearance arid defence for the endorsers; for the whole of Calhoun's* defence consisted of a set-off against Tarpley; and their
interests in this suit were directly conflicting. The whole proceedings, therefore;' against Barrett and Tarpley, were informal; and
o tere was want of diligence in not bringing them. beford the court
by legal process, so that they might have had an opportunity of
contesting Cah6un's set-off."
Besides" this, there never was an execution, or "branch writ,"
issued to the counties, where, it appears from Winston's deposition, that Barrett andTarpley resided; and in this there was a want of
due diligence to use all the means of the law to collect the judgment.
. There has also been an entire faihire of the defendants in error
to obtain payment from Barrett and Tarpley. One of them moved to
South Carolina, and the other to Texas. One of them is certainly
within the jurisdiction of our courts. As to the jurisdiction of our
courts over the other, adhuc subjudice lus est.
Lee argued thus:
* The defendants in error, by their counsel, respectfully shbmit
with the record, that there is no error in the rulings and decision of
the Circuit Court of the United States, for Missouri, in the questions
of law raised and adjudged in this case, and that all the material
and important facts in the cause were fully considered by the jury,
which were necessary for them to render, as they have done, a
proper and just verdict in the premises, and that the judgment
ought therefore to be affirmed.
But it is objected, and n6w argued by the plaintiff in error t that
the contract was not complied with, because." the note was not
sent to flie'Bank of Columbus, Mississippi, for collection." - The
answer to this 6bjection is obvious and conclusive, and to be found
in the facts as sworn to by Thos. B. Winston, by which the court
will perceive that the usual and proper demand of payment of said
note was made on the 10th. June, 1837, at the Bank of Columbus,
Mississippi, and due .notices--of protest sent td the endorsers; in a
word, that all which the law merchant, or bankls"usage requir'ed,
as to the presentation and protest of the note, was strictly complied

SIANYARY°TERM, 1W4.
C~m~den v. Doremnu3 e.t a].

with; -and it is apprehended thatthe term "for collection," used in
the contract between the parties, cannot be made to express more
than a legal and proper-demand at the maturity of the said note;
and that this was a compliance both wvith the contract and stipjilation in the note itself; for collection at the bank means payment
thereon. The court was therefore right'in limiting the action of the
holders of the note to demand payment at the bank specified on the
note, and during bauk hours; &c. There, is, besides, nothing in
this record to show that any proper step was *omitted, orithat the
plaintiff in error ever understood the contract in the sensO. now contended for by him.
.2. As- to one of the objections, that due prodess was not served,
or suit properly instituted against Barrett and Tarpley, there cai be no
ground to question the regularity of the pro'ceedings; and the court
will find all necessary legal steps to have been promptly taken in
strict-dccordance with the laws of Mississippi, to which the plaintiff
in errog has .referred; and it is presumed that the _aitormey,, entered
upon the record as acting for Messrs. Barrett a~d Tarpley, acted in,
good faith, and by their appointment, and beyond this the court
cannot now look,
The.court, too, rightly rejected the testimony of W. C. Anderson,
because the usage of banks, east or west, and the opinion of the
witness, could not be evidence, when the contra tand note in question stipulated distinctly for the collectio 1,or prdsentation'of the said
note at the Bank of Columbus, at Mississippi, whose usage alone
was important to .be known, and which it was presumed had- been
known, and governed the parties at the time the contract was made.
Another objection is taken to the depositions in this case, and which
it is contended were.inadmisible on several grounds.
But the defendants in error now confidently submit that upon examination of tht Judiciary Act of 1789, sect. 30th,- 2. Laws U.
S. 68, it will be found that -the depositions objected to were
legally taken in due form, and in compliance with the law referred
to, however strictly it may be construed.
The deliosition of Winston is certified to by the. "presiding
judge," and that of Calhoun also by the judge of the court before
whom the suit was pending;, and another depbsition is certified andtaken by the presiding judge of the ninth judicial district of Mississippi. This being, in the language of the' law,-taken before "a
judge, or justice,,.&c. &c."
The terms. qr titlesi attorneyand counsel, between which somenice distinctions are -drawn ini -the argument,. are, by common con.sent and usage, now regarded as cionvertible terms; and, indeed,
the Judiciary Act, to which reference is made, does itself so speak of them. See.sect. 30th.
The law meant the attorney or counsel, not in'fact, as is contended,
but the party's legal -attorney or counsel, and generally-none but

68SUPREME.

COURT.
Camden v. Dofemus et al.-

such can be of'recbrd, or act in court; besides, the certificates to
these depositions name the attorney in one or more-intances.
So'also as to the objectionthat one of the witnesses (Winston) was
not sworn to tell the "wh ole truth' "This -may be a clerical or typograoihical omissionas the word- "whole" truth is used in all the
other'depositions.; and even were it omitted by the judge, it is sulbmitted whither, under the true intent -nd meaning of the Judiciary
Act, seut..30, this would be fatal.'to the deposition.
Anothdr objection as to these- depositions is made with reference
to an-omission; as it is alleged, of the note referred to in-the deposition, -as th6."' annexed note';" but be this as it may, the court will
find-that the whole d~position taken together is full and distinct as to
-the .particular-note, and nothing more was reqtuired.
S..,Finally, us to the question of dug-diligence: .it cannot be denied
that it is for the court, on the facts supposed, to determine the point
of due 4iligence. , The question only is, whether the facts contemplated by the court's -direction prove "due and reasonable ,diliFence'! under the agreement of Camden and Co. with the defendants
inerror. Due and. reasonable diligence means "reasonable dili-.
gence.'0 'But "due" and ",reasonable" may, in truth, be regarded
a. convertible terms in this association,
-Was such diligence. used? .The suit is shown to have been
iigidly and promptly prosecuted, without the remissness of a day,
and with ieVry delay acc6unted for under authoity superior to' the
party's prevention or discretion. And fllahly,"a~ft"ifcias issues
instantly, avd a return appears of -ndia bona, and it is shown that
thelaws of Mississippi allow no ca. sa It is further proved, that at
the time of judgment the defendants were insolvent, and notoriously.
so, (or at least known to " public" rumor to 'be so.) It is in this
case found that one of 'the defendents had gone to Texas when the
judgment was obtained; but it is not shown that that. change. of
residence was known-to these 8aimants, or to their counsel. And
if it was, need there have been a pursuit 'of him into Texas, and.'a
roving c~pias to explore for him whithetsoever report might have
sent him?- Was this neressary, with proof, too,- of actual insolvency ? Due diligence can be required only becatise cailigence may
find and seize propelSy to pay the claim--and where there is insolvency due diligence has no object, or rather consists, at the, utmost
stretch of obligation, in having-a return o:i execution of nulla bon.
Ths retutn is in fact only a test, or a form' of proof; of insolvency.
Substantiated otherwise, the dity of .diligence has as truly been fulfilled by simply' recoverig judgment.and by issuing execution upon
it. Here insolvency is Proved, and -judicilal ascertaihinent wis not
requisite. And the office of.- due diligence-was accomplished by
suit. and judgment, aiid,.(th6ugh' un necessay) by-the fruitless fieri
facias.

-That-the end'of 'all, icdue diligence"- is butto6 dvailqf solvency,

YA14UARY TERM, M54.

5W9

Camden v. Doremns e-t al.

or to establish insolvency, and that proof of insolvency, otherwise
than judicially) supersedes all steps of further diligence, variouscases settle very clearly. See Saunders v. Marshall, 4 Hen. &
Munf. 455, 458; Thomas v. Wood, 4 Cowen, 172, "188; Boyer
•v. Turner, admr. 3 Harr. & Johns. 285, 287; Reynolds et al. v.
Douglass et al., 12 Peters, 503; and 1 Law Lib. 100, 169. The
strictest exaction in such cases, however, never demanjted more
than a nulla bona to a feri facias and a ca. sa. to succeed it. The
first we have in this case; and the latter could~not be had; it being
abrogated by force -of the law of Mississippi againsf imprisonmentfor debt. Thus, apart from the proved insolvency, 'ehave judicially
tested the means of the defendant, and exhausted all diligence.
Another suit is prescribed to us here, and to be in Texas-and
that for the vain chase of an insolvent man! Not more than one
suit .for the exercise *of diligence, wherever imposed, is' required.
Any other view might multiply suits through an interminable series,
andall recourse to an oricinal party, defendent on evehtual and
long-deferred tests of insolvency, would prove but a shadow of a
right, and a mere mockery.
The last objection needs scarcely a commer .1at the, set-off of
about $1500 should not be allowed. This set-.b is explained by
Calhoun's testimony, not only substantiating the set-off, but proving
that it was adVersely adjudged. If sof'it minst, as Calhoun's testinony proves it,. be regarded 'as an inevitable abatement from the
note for Which the plaintiff -in error should suffer,, and not the defendants; whp contracted with Camden for the note as valid, for
what it purported to pay.
'On the whole, the defendants in error insist that the record pre.
sents a case in-which, after great delay, and long zind expensive litigation, -bywhich they have performed every legal duty incumbent"
on them by thi contract entered into in 1836, as a security to them,
from the present plaintiff in error, their original debtor, for value.
received.
That now, after the lapse of more -than nine years, they are met
by objections merely technical, and with merit, which, if sustained
by this honourabld court, would, indeed, make the forms of the law
more potent than'its justice, and turn out of the courts, remediless,
and in some cases ruined, the honest creditor,, who 'May require
their protection and.vindication.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinioi of the court.
No question has been raised on"this record in reference to the
original character of the instrument on which the action wasfounded
as a negotiable and commercial paper, nor in reference to the duties
and obligations of the parties arising. purely from their positions as
parties to such a paper. And for aught that the record disoloses,
every requirement of the law merchant, with respect to the note, or
2Y
VOL. II.-67

SU.PREME COURT.
Camden v. Doremus et al.

with respect to.the rights of the endorsers thereof, appears to have
been fulfilled. Presentment at maturity and within due time was
made at the-Bank of Columbus, Mississippi, aiid pay ment there demanded; th6 failure to make payment was followed by regular pro.test, and by like notice to all the endorsers. The exceptions specifically urged'by the defdndant in the court below, andpressed in his
behalf before this court, grow out of an agreement signed by the
firm of the Camdens and by the defendants in error at the time
that the niote of Calhoun was endorsed by the former-to the latter,
and which agreement, it is contended, bound the defendants in error
to undertakings and acts beyond the usual duties incumbent upon
enlorsers and holders of negotiable paper, and without the fulfilwent of which -no right of recovery against the plaintiffs in error
could arise. Before entering upon an examination of this agreement and of the questions which it has given rise to, it is proper to
dispose of an objection by the defendant in the court below, which
seems to have been- aimed at the entire testimony adduced by the
plaintiffs, but whether at its competency, or relevancy, or at its regularity merely, that objection nowhere discloses. After each de-"
position offered in evidence by the plaintiffs to thejury,it is stated,
that to the reading of such deposition the defendant, by his counsel,
objected, and.that his objection was. overruled. A-similar statemeat is made with regard to the record of the suit instituted in the
court of Hinds county against Calhoun, the maker of the note, and
vffered in this cause as proof of due diligence. With regard to the
manner and the import of this objection, we would remark, that they
were, of a kind that should not have been tolerated in the court below pending the trial of the issue before the jury. Upon the offer
of testimony oral or written, extended and complicated as it may
often prove, it could not be expected, upon the mere suggestion of
an exception which did 'not obviously cover the competency of the
evidence, nor point'to some definite or specific defect in its character, that the court should explore the entire mass for the ascertainment of defects whidh the objector himself either would not or could
not point, to their view. It would be more extraordinary still if,
udder the mask of such an objection, or mere -hint at objection, a
party should be permitted in an appellate court to spring upon his
adversary defects which it did not appear he ever relied on; and
which, ifthey hal been openly and specifically alleged, might have
been easily cured. 'Tis" impossible that this court can determine,
or do more than conjecture, as the objection is 6tated on this record,
whether it applied to form or -substance, or how far, in the view of
it presented to the court below, if any particularview was so presented-, the court may have been warranted in overruling-it. We must
consider objections of this character as vague and.nugatory, and as,
if entitled to -weight anywhere, certainly, as without weight before
,an appellate court.

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

531

Camden v. Doremus et al.
Recurring to the agreement signed by the partiesat the time of
the transfer of the note, and to the instructions given and refused at
the trial, 'with respect both to that'agreement and the proceedins
had-in fulfilment thereof, wewill remark, as to the'agreement itself,
it is clear that it bound the endorsees to conditions beyond th6se
which. are Implied in the ordinary transfer and receipt of commercial
instruments. Their obligations, therefore, to these endorsers could
by no means be fulfilled by a compliance with such usual conditioi's. The language of the agreement is explicit.. The said Doremus, Suydams and'Nixon-were to send the note passed to them to
the Comraercial.Bank of Columbus, Mississippi, for collection, and
in the event of its not being paid at maturity, they were to use rea-.
sonable and due diligence to collect it of the drawer and two prer
vious .endotsers before they were to call upon the said Camdens;
&c., &c. The obligation of the plaintiffs, as endorsees. andholders,
would have been fulfilled by.regular demand, protest, and notice ;
from these- a right -of action would immediately hate accrued; But
the condition stipulated in the agreement is, that. before they can
have any right to make demand upon their endorsers, they shall
diligently endeavour to pollectbf the maker arid previous endorsers.
With the view of showing a-failure in the plaintiffs in fulfilling their
contract, and of deducing therefrom their own exemption from responsiBility, the. defendants first o~ered-a witness to prove a differ"ence in the. practice prevailing in eastern and western banks with
respect to the managerbnit of paper deposited with them for collection'; and inquired of the witness whether a note presented at a'
bank for payment on the last day of grace by a nota public would
be considered as haring been sent to the bank for collection, within
the meaning of the contract. This question, on motion of the .plaintiff's- counsel,' the court refused to allow, and rejected all testimony
by the witness in relation to the practice -of banks- as to notes deposited for collection, unless the witness could testify as to the practice or usage of the .Commercial Bank of Columbus. The ruling
of the court -on this point -we think was proper. The note was
made payable at the Commercial Banli of Columbus; by the agreement between tl~e parties it was moreover expressly stipulated, that
it- should be sent to that bank for collection ; if, then, any custom
or practice other than general commiercial usage were 'to control the
management of the note, it was -the usage of the Bank of Columbus,
certainly not the*particular usage of-othef banks not mentioned in
'the contract, and perhaps- never wilbiii thb contemplation of th6
parties to that contract. The next exception is taken upon an instruction asked of the court to the jury, that unless it was 'proved to
their satisfation, that the note was sent to the Bank of Columbus for
collection by the plaintiffs, they must ffid for the defendant. The
court responded affirmatively to the proposition that the note should
have been .sent to the Bank of Columbus for collection, but declared

582

SUPREME COURT.
Camden v. Ddremus .et al.

its opinion that by presentment and demand of payment of thenote
at maturity by the plaintiffs at the said bank, within banking hours,
so as to make a legal demand on the makers, the requiremnent of the
contiact in this particular would be complied with. A nice distinction might be made between the language of the agreement and that
of the instruction given upon this point. The distinction, however,
we should deem to be more apparent and verbal than substantial,
and not to be applicable either to the intention of the parties, or to
the real merits of the case. The note was payable at the Commercial Bank of Mississippi. The maker of the 'note resided in the
county in which the bank was situated; the endorsers Barrett and
Tarple, who were to be looked to for pyment before proceedin
against the Camdens, ere also residents of the state of Mssissippi.
of its character,
Every
party uponand
thetonote
must
be presumed
have itbeen
have
known
when andtowhere
was cognisant
payable;
and was bound to. 1prepare "for his respective responsibility arising
from
Other
notice upon
than that
to whiclh
the n
lawright
entitled his.undertaking.
h
his peculiar
position
the note,
he had
e
to
would ground
be going
far, .then,
tiply'any
other
right,
or claim.
to admit It
it-upon
lesstoostrong
than to
that
of express
and
unequivocal
language
the agreem'ent
we 1ts,
holdthat
notthe
to
amount to contract.
and asThe
being
satisfiedofwit
the interpretation

note should be regularly presented "d payment thereof demanded
at the Commercial Bank of CoIunius simply as one of the means
of collection to be
before recourse should be had to' the
rdopted
.last endorsers.
But it has been contendedl, that had the note been plac~ed under
the
of the and
hank
itself,
notice might
given
bythe management
bnk to the maker
prior
endorsers,
beforehave
the been
iaturity
of the

note, and that; thereby, proisio

en made to meet it

when due. In relily to thi.i argument, it may he said, that the agreement
ex:presses
suchwepurpose
to be itself,
sent to
the bank,noand
do not or object, in 'requiring the note'

that
such'an object is
necessarily implied in the requisition. In the next place, there is no
proof that the bank would ive given notice to the maker-and ndorsers, previously to the
trof thaenote; noris there any thing

in the record to show that this would have been in-accordance with
its practice in similar cases• Under the silence of the contract -itself,

and in the absence of proof dehors the agreement, we are not at
liberty to set-up a pbresuiption, which neither the language of the
agreement nor justice to the parties imperatively calls Ibr. ,
The defrindants also excepted to-the opimin of. the court, given
oupon a prayei to istrct the jury, that the record of the Suit by the
plaintiffs, against the maker, and prior endorsers of the note, did not
show due diligence as to those parties.
his instruction the court
refusedb in lieu ithereof, instructed the jury, thac
the record was
proper 'evidence to show due diligence on
the othe plaintif,

JANUARY-TE!RM,- 1M.

W8G

Cazaden i,. Doremus et al.

.and that if they believed, from -the evidence submitted in addition
to the record, that the endorsers Barrett .and Tbxpley had- Ieft the
state of Mississippi, were insolvent, and tad left no property in the
state at the time of the judgment in the said record, the plaitiffs
were not bound to send executions to the counties in which those
endorsers respiectively resided at the time when - suit was instituted
against them: - This court-can conceive no just.foundation for this
exceptionfto-thei rulingb of the Circuit Court. The condition to which
the plaintiff was -ple' ed, was the practice of due, that is, proper,
just, reasonable, diligence; not to the perfonnuee of acts which
were obviously useless, and from which expense and injury might
arise, but from which advantage certainly could not. The diligent
and honest prosecution of a suit to judgment, with a return of nulla
bona, has always beerk regarded as one of the extreme tests of due
diligence.
This phrase, and the obligation it imports may be. satisfied, howqver- by other means. The ascertainment, upon correct nd suffibient proofs, of entire or notorious insolvency, is rec6gnised by the
law as answering the deniand of due diligence, and as dispensing,
. under'such circumstinees, with the more dilatory evidence of a suit;
evidence which, in instances that it may be easy to imagine, might
prove prejudicial alike to him who should exact, and to him who
would supply it. Dulany v. Hodgkin, 5 Cranch; 333; Violet-v.
Patten, Ibid. 142; Yeaton v. Bank of Altxandria, Ibid. 49. We
hold, therefore, that, both as to the instruction.refus d and as to that
which was given upoi this prayer, the decisiori of the Circuit Court.
was correct.
We come -now to the last exception taken to the opinion of the
'Circuit Court upon he points presented to it. The defendant in
that court insisted, that, by the law of Mississippi, the plaintiffs wer
entitled to a recovery of the full .amount .of the note, against the
maker and endorsers, subject to n6 set-off between the maker and
endorsers; and that, if the. plaintifis had, by their neglect, permitted
a judgment for a smaller amount, the defendant was- discharged from
all accountability for-the sum thus lost The court refused'so to lay
down the law, because the record from the court in Mississippi furnirshed the only vidence to which the insfruction prayed for referred,
and no negligence .appeared,from the record, in theprosecution of the
suit against the defendants' thereto. This refusal of the court was
clearly right, and the reason assigned for it is quite satisfactory.
The question to which the instraction asked was designed to appl,
as that of duediligence. The timely and. bonafide prosecution of
A dt is, perhaps, the highest evidence of due diligence. If, in the
conduct 'of tha suit, the party should be impeded or wronged; by'an
errQneous decision of the tribunal having cognisance of hig case,
that wrong could, on'no just principle,be imputed to hiin as a fault.
It certainly does not tetid to show him to have'been the less diligent
"2Y2

State of Maryland tf. Raltimo-e & Ohio Ra-ilroad Co.

in the pursuit of his claim-; and least-of all-should he be prejudiced
thereby, when the rrorinsisted on.has been induced by the'person"
Who seekgto avail himself of its existence.
Upon'the -hole, we consider the rulings of th Circuit Cour upon
the several 'points before it, to be cdrrect;. its judgment is: therefore,
affirmed.

UNITED STATES V.

-A.bnzw

HODGEi.

If the citation be signed by the clerk, and not by a judge of the Circuit
.Court, or a justice of the SuprtmeCourt, the case will, on motion, be dismissed.

M. Chief'Justice TANEY delivered the.opinion of-the court on.
a motion to dismiss this case.."
This case is brought here by a writ of 'error to the Circuit Court
for the eastern district of Louisiana; and a motion has been made to
dismiss it, because the citation was signed by the clerk, and not by
a judge of the Circuit Court, or a justice of the. Supreme Court, as
directed by the act bf Congress of-1789, ch. 20, sect. 22.
* The defendant is not bound. to appear here, unless the citation is
signed in the manner prescribed.bylaw; and as that has not been
done in this case, the writ must be dismissed.

TiM STATE OF MARYiAND, FOR THE USE OF WASHINGTON COUNTY,
PLAINrIFF IN 'ERROR, v. THE BALjnsoRE AND OHI RaLOAD CoXpAre, DEFEND-A'TS.
The state of Maryland, in 1836, passed a law ilirecting a subscription of
$3,000,000 to be made to the capital stdck of the Baltimore and Ohio Rail.
road Company' with the following proviso, "That if the said company shall
not locate the said road in the manner provided for in this act, then, and in
that case, they shall forfeit $1.000,000 to the state of Marylav4 for the use
of Washington county.
In March, 1841, the state passed another act repealing so much of the prior
act as made it the duty of the company to construct the road by the route
therein-prescribed; remitting and releasing the penalty, and directing the discpntinuaxice of any suit brought to recover the same.
The proviso was a measure of state policy, which it had a right to change, if
the policy was afterwards discovered to be erroneous, and neither the commissioners, nor the county, nor any one of its citizens acquired any separate
or private mterest under it, which could be maintained in a court of'
justice.

