JANUARY TERM, 1846.

LESSEE OF ANGELICA CROGHAN ET AL., PLAINTIFF, V. JOHN NELSON,
DEFENDANT.
In making an entry of land, where mistakes occur which are 6ccasioned by
the impracticability of ascertaining the relatie positions of the objects called
for, the court will correct those mistakes so as to carry out the intentions of

the locator.

Tnis case came up on a certificate of divisioif in opinion between
the judges of the court below. It was an ejectment brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Kentucky.
The case was this:.
On the 16th of August, 1784, William Croghan, under whom
the plaintiff claimed title, made the following entry: "Wiliam
Croghan, assignee, enters 1000 acres of land, part of a iniiitary
warrant, No. 2023, beginning at a fork of Mayfield creek,. about
two miles by water above Fort Jefferson, where a branch, occasidhed
by the high waters from the Mississippi, runs out of said creek, and
at. high water empties into the' river at the upper end of the iron
banks ; from said beginning 500 poles, when reduced to-a straight
line ; and then off from tIhe branch towards [the] Mississippi" on a
line parallel to Mayfield creek, until a line from the extremity of
said line, parallel with the first line, will strike Mayfleld creek to
include the quantityi."
On the 29th of November, 1826, a patent was issued to Croghan
by the g6vernor of Kentucky, which described the land as follows:
"Beginning at a fork of Mayfield creek, occasioned by high water
from the Mississippi river, and which creek or bayou empties into
the Mississippi at the upper end of the iron banks, on a walnut,
sweet gum, and ash standing on the west bank of the creek; running thence down the bayou or branch aforesaid with the. meanders
thereof, S. 180 W. 134 poles, S. 360 W. 200 poles, S. 480 W.'72
poles, S. 18 W. 14 poles, S. 180 W. 54 poles, S. 300 W. 126
poles; thence S. 110 poles, to two ash trees, a hackberry, and red
bud on the west bank of the bayou; thence N. 75 W. 206 poles,
to an elm, a sycamore, and box elder ori the bank of the Mississippi
river; thence up the same, with its meanders, and binding on it at
low water-mark, N., &c, &c., to a walnut and. two cotton wood
trees'at tho mouth of Mayfield creek; thence up the creek, with the
se;eral meanders thereof, and binding on the same at low watermark, &c., &c., to the beginning."
In 1830, Nelson took out ILpatent for the fractional north-west
quarter of section 32, &c., contain~ing 103 acres.
The whole dispute being one of location, it is impossible to
understand the opinion of the court without a map or diagram.

188

SUPREME COURT.
Crbghan's Lessee V. Nelson.

A, B, C, D, is the survey made for Cro'ghan. A being the beginning station, and D the mouth of Mayfield creek. The defend-

V 0?

Aaq*Zd
M.
Cc~

ant contended that the-plaintiff's line should run from B to E, and
from E to D, in which case- it is manifest that it would not include

JANUARY' TERM, I845.

189

Croghan's Lessee v. Nelson.

the land granted o Nelson, the line B E being parallel to a line
drawn from A to D.
Upon the trial, the counsel for the defendants asked the court to
instruct the jury, that "if they believe from the evidence that the
course of Mayfield creek, from A to D, is correctly laid down,
then the line from B towards "the-Mississippi river should be run
parallel :to that to conform to the entry; and if, in running that
parallel line, they shall believe from~the evidence that the improvement of the defendants is left out, they ought to find for the defendants. But the court were divided in opinion on the-point, whether
the second line called for in the entry. should run from B to E, or
whether the line from B-to C should be taken, and recognised as
the true and proper line, it being the line 6n"which the patent was
founded. One judge bqing of opinion, that for all the land south
and west of a line fr6m B to E the patent was void, and the other
jud_ e being of'a contrary opinion.
itpon this point, the case came up.
It was argued by Mr. Underwood f6r Croghan's hbirg, who contended that the entry was "precise enough for others to locate
other warrants with certainty on the adjacent residuum," as required
by the act of 1779. The fork of 'the creek being found, it would
be easy for a subsequent locator to.run, the line to B. Arrived
there,! and desiriimg to locate the "adjacent residuum". below, I
think he has the means of knowing and ascertaining "precisely"
the course which Croghan's line from B towards the Mississippi
must pursue, and the distance in that direction.
Entries for land are addressed to the common good sense of those
engaged in appropriating the -.acant domain, and are to'be "special
and precise," so that- subsequent locators shall not be deceived or
deluded to their-injury.
An. entry is to be understood and taken as it would have been
understood on the day it was made. See 1 Bibb, 35, 8- 2 Bibb,
105; Hardin, 287.
Rectangular figure is -not to be 'departed from without a strong indlcation of a contrary intent. 2 Bibb, 120 ; see also cases, referied
to under the 29th rule; in the index to 3 Bibb, under the head
A locator is not-bound.to give the best possible description,'but
it should be certain to a common intent, -and not misleading. j Bibb,
144; 1 Bibb, 73, 64.
With these rules in the mind of a subsequent locator, wishing to
ascertain the exact.position of Crogaln's 1000 acres, and with the
entry before him, let us exanfine how he wbuld proceed .and reason
upon the subject. He could not know the exadt popition of the
'lines without making a survey of the entry; but that is equally trut
in respect to every entry, no matter how special. He would know

190

SUPREME COURT.
Croghan's Lessee v: Nelson.

that the natural objects called for were to constitute boundaries of
the survey, when made. Thus, a subsequent locator would-know,
by inspecting the entry, that the branch down towards the iron banks
from the fork of the creek at A, upon the plat, to a point 600 poles,
when reduced to a straight line, from the beginning, constituted Part
of the boundary. He would also know that Mayfield creek, from
the fork at A down towards its mouth, constituted another portion
of the boundary. With this knowledge, he would find no difficulty
in locating the adjacent residuum, lying eastwardly of the branch
and the creek, without interfering with Croghan's entry. Conceding
that a subsequent locator would be ignorant of the true course of the
line from B upon the plat towards the Mississippi river, until a survey
was actually made, still, if he desired to enter the land west of the
branch -below.Croghan's entry, and adjoining Croghan's tract, he
could have done so with perfect sfety by calling to adjoin Croghan, without giving the course. If a subsequentlocatgr wished'to
enter land below the mouth of Mayfield creek, lyino between *the
river and Croghan's entry, supposing there might be iand thus situated not covered by Croghan's entry, he would find no difficulty in
making such an entry without interfering with Croghan, by calling
to bind on Crorrhan and the river. Thus it is manifest, that the
'.adjacent resid'uum," in the language of the act of 1779, all around
Croghan's entry, might have been appropriated by a subsequent locatbr, without interfering with Croghan's entry. I therefore insist,
it is "1certain to a commofi intent, and not misleading," in the judicial language of the Appellate Court of Kentucky. A better description than that given will therefore not be required.
Mr. Underwood then proceeded to argue, that the line from B
should run, not parallel with that part of the creek between A and
the mouth of it, but.parallel with the general coursd of the stream,

including the part above A, because this would include only 835
acres, and the locator's intention was to enter 1000.
He then referred to a number of Kentucky cases to show, that th'
intention of the locator tnust be carried out, &c., &c

Mr. Justice McKINLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a case certified to this court from the Circuit Cou.rt-for the
district of Kentucky.
, The plaintifTs brought an action of ejectment, in that court, against
the defendants: and to support their\.action, they read to .the jury a
patent for 1000 acres of-land, granted by the state of Kentucky to
Charles Croghan, bearing date the 29th of Noveinberf 1826, and
proved title in themselves by the will of the said Charles Croghan.
The plat marked A was shown to'the jury; and the surveyor proved)
that the fork of Mayfield creek, at the letter A, was correctly laid
.down; that five Wutidied poles, on a straight line, on the branch.
leading from Mayfield creek, would extend the line to letter B, on

JANUARY TERM. 1845.

1191

Croghan's Lessee.v. Nelson.

the plat, where one of the patent-comers was found; and that the
plat truly represented the land granted by the patent.
The defendant then read the following entry of William Croghan,
assignee, for 1000 acres, dated 16th-of August, 1784, on which the
patent is founded, to wit: "William Croghan, assignee, enters 1000
acres of land, part of a military warrant, No. 2023, beginning at a
fork of Mayfield creek, about two, miles by water above Fort Jefferson, where a branch, occasioned by the high waters from the Mississippi, runs out of said creek, and at high water emptiis into The river
at the upper end of the iron-banks; from said beginning 500 poles,
when reduced to a straight line; and then off from the branch towards the Mississippi, oil a line parallel to Mayfield creek, until a
line from the extremity of said line; parallel with the first line, will
strike Mayfield creek, to include the quantity." The defendants
then offered in evidence a patent from the state of Kentucky t&Hugh
Nelson, for 103 acres of land, bearing date the 17th of December,
1830; aud proved.by the surveyor, that the beginning of the entry
was at A, on the plat, and that the end of the first line was at B,"
and if a line'were run from B towards the Mississippi river, in a direction parallel with the general course of MIayield creek, for
twelve miles above the fork at A, it would be theTe4 line extending
from the letter B to the Mississippi river at F. It was also proved,
if a line were run from the comer at B parallel with Mayfield creek,
below the fork, to the letter D, at the mouth of the creek, it would:
run from B to E, and leave out the land claimed by the defendants.
The surveyor also proved, that the various lines on the plat were
down from actual survey.
correctly
1"The laid
counsel.for
the defendants then prayed the court to instruct
the jury, if they believe, from the evidence, that the course of Mayfield creek from A to D is correctly laid dowii, then a line from B
towards the Mississippi river should be run parallel to that line, to
conform to the entry; and if, in running that parallel line, they shall
believe, from the evidence, that the improvement of-the defendants
is left out, they ought to find- -for the defendants., But)the court
were divided in opinion on the point, whether the second line called
for in the entry should run from B to E, or, whether the line'from B
to C should be taken'and recognised as the true and proper line, it
being the line on which the patent was founded. One of the judges
being of the opini6n, ihat for all the land south andwest'pf a line from
B to E the'patent was void; and the other judge being bf-a contrary
opinion. They were also divided in opinion, for theforegoin: reasons,
whether the foregoing instructions ought to be given or.refused." ,
By a statute of Kentucky, passed the 26th of December, 1820, it
is required, that all surveys thereafter to be made on.entries west*-of
Tennessee river should be run- accordng *tothe calls of the eitry.
And-" to enable the-register to ascertain, whether the surveyis made
according to entry, a c.o y of:the entry shall, be ref urned to the re-

192

SUP'REME COURT.
Croghan's Lessee v. Nelson.

gister's' office, with the plat and certificate of survey and any jatent issuing on a survey made -contrary to the location shall be void
t6 all intents and purposes,- so far as thedsame tnay-be different and
variant Irom the16cation." -Thd suriey in'this case was made on
the 5th day of November, 1825 and the. patent- under which the
'defendants claim, 'dated the 17th day of December; 1830, was granted for ldnd sold by the state subsequent- to the .date of the patent
under which the plaintiffs claim title, and which 6overs part of the
land claimed by the defendants. This brings in questionthe legality
of the suney, and the cdnstruction of 'the entry on which it was
made, and leads to an examination'of the points certified for our
determination.
But before we' enter on that duty'it will be proper to consider
the circumstances in which the locator was placed when he made the
entry. It.was proved in the Circuit Court, that along this branch
there was a 'ery dense cane-brake, and the greater part' of the land.
covered by the Patent is still a dense cane-brake. It was also proved,
that a line run parallel with the general, course of Mayfield c-eek,
for twelve miles above the fork) and crossing'the branch, at the 'te
minafion of the 500 .poles, from A to B, on the plat, would strike
the Mississippi river at 'F, on the plat, a considerable distance below
the corner c@led for in the patent at the letter C. 'And it appears
by, the plat hat the -creek'continues to run nearly the same course
for 300 -or 400 yards below the fork, and' then runs nprth of north-.
west for about 300 poles.- Nov'we have a right'to -infer, from the
facts proved, that all the land included in Croo'han's patent, bnd all
the river-bottoin above Mayfield creek, at'the Wate of the entry, was
a: densd cane-brake; because, if ami object, permanent 'in its nature,
is proved to exist at the time of the trial, it is fair to ifter that it
existed at the 'time the entry was made. Crochet v. Greenul,
4 Bibb, R. 158.. The'history and topography -ofthe great valley of
the lississippi proves satisfactorily, that where there is a cane-brake
now there Was one sixty years ago ; and this fairly induces the belief
that the caneupon the rich and alluvion lands is coeval with the
oldest trees'of the forest. As the locator had the means of ascertaiing the course of Mayfleld creek abov e
fork, where it ran
acro
the' high
lands,calls
and ofwhere
there that
was he
no believed
cae, itis
asonable
to
suppose,
fromthe
the entry,
thatreM
ayfleld
creek, 'below the fork, ran nearly at right angles to the branch in its
general course to the river. And he had a right, from" the circumstances, also 'to believe, that the distancefrom the fork of the creek
to the river
was "about two miles, when n fact it was less 'than one
A

mile.
It is obvious from these circumstances,'and the calls of the entry,
that the locator believed the survey tc"be made upon it would approach'as near to a parallelogram as the irregularity' of the two
natral boundaries would permit. We are led to the conclusiohk

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

193

Croghan's Lessee v. Ne.lson.

therefore, that these mistakes were all occasioned by the impracticability of ascertaining the relative positions of the objects called for,
and the courses and distances of the lines necessary to include the
quantity of land specified in the entry. But mistakes of this character have-been corrected, as far as practicable, by the ,courts of.
Kentucky, in giving construction to entries, and particularly in two
recent eases like this between military claims and purchases from
the state. Rays v. Woods, and Daniel, &c. v. Allison, 2 B.*Monroe's Rep. 224. Jeeping these mistakes in view, we will proceed
to give construction to the entry. The call to run from the' termination of the base line at B, 500 poles from the fork of the creek at
A, and off from the branch towards the Mississippi'on a line parallel
to Mayfield creek, until a line from the extremity of said line, parallel with the first line, will strike Mayfield creek, to include the
quantity, presupposes that a line from the'termination of the base
lin-e on the branch, parallel with Mayfield creel, to include the
quantity, would.terminate before it reached the river, otherwise the
locator would have called to run to the river. But 'it was found,
when they made the survey, that the whole trea, bounded by the.
branch, from the termination of the 500.poles, Mayfield creek to its
mouth, and the Mississippi river, d-on to the' letter E, the point
where a line running from the termination of the base line, parallel to.Mayfield creek, strikes the river, would include but 887 acres; and
when reduced to straight lines, would present a rhomboidal figure,
with two extremely acute, and two extremely obtuse angles, instead
of the figure which must have been in the -mind of the locator when
he made the entry. " We might5 therefore, upon the authority of the
cases referred to in 2 B. Monroe's Rep., sustain the survey on the
ground of the mistakes of the locator, evidently made under the
influence of causes well calculated to mislead him. But there -are
other reasons and other authorities uponwhich this entry and -urvey
may be sustained. It is a well -settled rule of construction, that
wherethere .are calls in an entry repugnant to each other, those
which are inconsistent with the main intention of the locator, manifested by the words of the entry, shall be rejected to give effect to
the entry, For example, distance'shall prevail over course, where
it appears by other calls in the entry the course has been mistaken.
.Smith v. Harrow. aid others, 1 Bibb,, 104. A call to include a
natural object will prevail over a mistaken distance called for to
reach the object. Preeble v. Vanhoozer, 2 Bibb, 118; McIver v.
Walker and another, 9 (Cranch, 173. Testing the entry by these
rules, has it been properly, surveyed?
Three of the lines are natural and permanent boundaries, except
the lin on the river, whichmay be extended in length;. the fourth
is artificial and movable. It has been already shown that a line
from the termination'of the line on the branch, at B, to the river at
E, and thence :up the 'river to the mouth of Mayfield creek, will not
VOL. H.-25
R

194

SUPREME COURT.
Croghan's Lessee v. Nelson.

include the quantity. of land called for in the. entry. If it is practicable, by a r~asonable construction of the entry, to give the whole
quantity of land called for, it is the duty of the court to give such
construction. The mistakes referred to have defeated the intention&.
of the locatbr, no doubt, -as to the. figpre" of the urvey; but, like
all prudent locators' he pr'ovided, as tar as he could, against the
influence of such mistakes, by requiring that the two last lin~s of the
survey should be so run as to include the quantity of land called"
for in the entry. To these two lines he gave course, but gave no
specific distance to either, that they might be run long enough to
include the quantity. The first of these lines was to run from the
termination of the base line at B, "off. from the branch towards the
Mississi
lin
as the
aralle
ty cald terefor
yud atualMay becu
o , no isn
ss giv
distaneo thle.
ntin
ek
ut sno pen
ts tina,
te elative positins
fo,ntion
the obje wa
p
iusl
i
al ed
fo, and
ate ifby
bto ngoverd
aTe
detannrmia
e eline,
e onerton
on e Modifies
bran, .from
"unil/'
rIer,
qlfisecords
ethe
thee
the iecessary
the,ir
firstea
and cn
second terucin
of theseu sT5
gvecourse
coursandandistance
ith a.that0 n.
two lines should ru to *include the quantity; and therefore he continues
the mosthe-icallhby
of~ansaying,
Ia
in until a line parallel to the first (the
andbase
they:
line) will strike fayfid regek, to include The quantity.?' Theword
"funtil. ' in grammatical construction, modifies and qualifies the words
used t& give course and distace, and, in legal cbonstruction, the
.Call fr course nuht yieldto the call for quantity, the latter being
the most important call in the entry.
The great and leading orject of every eintry is to obtain the
quantity of land specified in it;. every other call, therefore; must be
reoar d as intended to efect this principal object, and as s ordi-'
nathemoretof 'The call;, to un a line parallel 'ith the first, or ba ,se
line, is, therefore, repugnant to the call to include the.quantity,
and must be rejected. 'Because, if thisliie had been run parallel
'with the base line, the quantity of land would not have been
included. An fo th am eason 'the words "on a line parallel
to Mayfield creek" must be rejected., they being, also, repugeant to
the call to include the quartity. *The surveyfeas, therefor , in our
opinion, been made in' conformity ' rith the entry, by running frm
the mouth of Mayfield creek, down the river, to the 'orner at C,
'that being the distace required to include the quantity; and the
line from B, another corner, has been properly run to 'C, that being
the course und distance necessary to- dlose the survey and tQ include
the quantity'-of land called 'for in the entry. It is the opinion of
this court, therefore, that the Circuit Court ought to have' refused
the instruction prayed for by the defendant's -counsel.
It is.'oirder~d,. that it be certified to the Circuit Court, that the
line from 'B to C "should be taken aiid recognmised as the true and
proper line," and that the instriictions prayed'by the defendant's
counsel ought-to be refused.

3.ANUARY

TER-M 18,5.
.

Croghau-'-s Lessee v. Nelson.

Mr. Justice McLEAN.
-cCroghan, assignee, enters 100,Q acres of land; part of a military
warrant, No. 20"23,'beginning at a fork of Mayfield dreek, abqut.
two miles by water above Fort Jefferson, ,where a branch occasioned
by the high waters from the Mississippi runs out of said creek,
and at high water empties into the river, at the upper end of the
iron-banks'; from said beginning, 500 poles when reduced to a
straight liney and then off from the.branch towards the Mississippi,
on a line parallel to Mayfield creek, until a. line from the extremity
of said line, parallel with the first line, will'strike-Mayfield-creek to
include the quantity."
By a statute of Kentucky passed in 1820, all entries on military
varrants west. of the Tennessee river are required to be surveyed
agreeably to their ,calls; and any survey and-patent which shall
cover more land than the entry dalls for, is declared t be-void as
to such surplus. There can be no bbjection to the validity of this
law, as it impairs no right.
Under this statute, the court were requested to give'a construction
to the entry in question. The prayer was, that the court should
instruct the jury, Iif they believe from the-evidence that the course
of Mayfield creek, from A to D, (the letter A being at the fork'of
the creek, the beginning of the entry, and-the-letter D at the mouth.
of the creek,) -is correctly la:d down, then .the line from B (the termination of the first line of 500 poles) towards the Mississippi,
should run parallelto that, or (in other words) to Mayfield creek, to
conform-to the entry."
The only dispute is as' to, the second line, which is "to run from
the branch towards the Mississippi, on a'lir~e parallel to Mayfield
creek.' And this was the instruction prayed for, and hich was
rejected by the court. Had, the -instruction been in the very
words of the entry, there would nbt have been a closer, conformity
with it.
The disputed line-was called for by the- entry "to run parc]lel to
Mayfield creek." Now one line to be parallel to another must be
equidistant from it. And that was what the instruction asked.
From th6 words of the call in the entry, as to this line, the creek.
from the forks to the nftufth must have been intended, as the line
designated could only be parallel to'that part bf the creek.
The third line called for in the entry was to run from the termina-.
tion of the line parallel to Mayfield creek, and "parallel with the first
line, so as to strike Mayfield creek to include the quantity." As
this line strikes the creek at the mouth, and runs on the bank of the
Mississippi, it cannot be varied to include in the survey the thousand acres called for in the entry. There is a deficiency of one
hundred ad ' acres, which covers the land in controversy. And
the question is, whether the second line called for in the entry, to
ruu parallel with Mayfield creek, can be disregarded, and extended
-

19

SUPREME COURT.
Croghan's Lessee v. Nlson.

so as to include the lands of the defendants and the quantity called
for in the entry.
In my opinion,.this can no more be done than the beginning
called for in the entry can be changed, or the first line of the survey.
The third lhie'up the Mississippi was, by the entry, "to strike Mayfield creek so as to inolude the quantity."
It is admitted that Mayfield creek, with its meanders, forms the
closing line of the survey.- I know of no principle in the land law
of Wentucky which authorizes a court to disregard the specific calls
of an entry, so as to include the- quantity designated. The locator
was, no doubt, deceivdd as to the ground covered by his entry.
The line called to be run so as .to include the thousand acresbeing
bounded by the Mississippii could not be varied so as to answer the
calls of the entry for quantity. This was the misfortune of the
locator which is chargeable only on himself. It is clear that he
-cannot disregard the calls of the entry, on any other line, so as to
include the quantity.
The injustice.of such a constructica to the defendants, seems to
me'to be clear. Finding the claim of Croghan's entry designating
in plain terms its-boundaries, and knowing that by the law he was
linited to the calls of his entry, his survey not having been made,
they purchased the adjacent residuum. And I have no doubt that,
by the well established principles of the land law in Kentucky, their
fitle- is good; and, therefore, the instruction prayed for shoud be
given.
InRays v. Daniels et al., 2 B. Monr. 222,-the court sayin Xeference to this district of country, where -a-patent has issued, the proof
the survey from th entry, so as to make the patent
of a variance in.
void, for-the land not included in the entry, devolves on the advetsary claimant.. But they do not say, in that or in any other case,
that where the loctdr is limited strictly to the, calls-of his entry, .by
a subsequententry, or, as in the present case,.by an express statute,
that the call' for quantity controls. the specific calls of the .entry.
.There is no"principle better settled in the land law, than that the
calls ina sur vey and. patent: are not" affected by quantity. If -no'
private and paramount right be interfered with, whether the survey
and patent contain more or less than the quantity called fpr, it is
equally valid. An entry cannot -call for a greater- number of acres
than is authorized by the warrant on which it is -made; but, where
the boundaries called for -are -specific, and the locator is 'limited
strictly to the boundaries of his entry, in making his survey, he can
to more disregard them than he can disregard the boundaries called
for'in his patefit..
'Palpable mistakes in the entry, such as a call for east instead of
west, -which is apparent by other calls in the entry, may be corrected. But where there is no mistake or uncertainty in-the calls, to
vary them is to make a new entry. This, J conceive, no court has

,lA.NUARY

TERM, 1845.

197

Taylor et al. v. United States.

power td do.' An entrylike every other instrument of writing,
must be construed by the words used. And these-Words can never
be extended, by construction, so as to infringe, up.6n subsequent
*an:dbonfide entries..

Jonr

TAYLOR, JUNIOR, AND WrLVAbM BLACKED"roE AND Co., CLAMNTrrs
OF CLOTHS AND KERSEYSIRES, PIAINTiF'is IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED
STATuS, DzFiNDANTSIN ERROR.

It is the right of an officer of the customs to seize goods which are suspected
to-have been introduced into the country in violation of the revenue laws, not
only in his own district, but also in any other district than his own.
And it is wholly immaterial who makes the seizure, or whether it was irregularly made or not, or whither the cause assigned originally for the seizure be
that for which the condemnation takes place, provided the adjudication is for
a sufficient cause.
In the trial of such a case the officers of the customs who made the seizure are
competent witnesses.
A bill of lading, entry, and owner's oath: concerning other goods than -those
seized; may be admitted as a link in the chain of evidence to show a privity
between the parties to c6mmic. a fraud upon the revenue.
When-a witness on the.part of the United- States stated, that his firm were importers of cloths, and was asked, upon a cross-examination, to state the extent
of their importations, to which he answered, "formerly we imported large
quantities of-woollens; for three -or four years past we have imported but a
few packages annually," it was a proper question on the part of the United
States, "whether there was any thing in the, state of the market which caused
'the alteration ."
It was also a proper question, whether other goods than those seized were" lying
in the custom-house at New York, under circumstances from which the jury
might.infer d connivance between parties inconsistent with fair dealing! An invoice of other goods entered at another port, but marked like those seized,
was also properly admitted as strengthening the evidence of the true ownership of packages with this mark.
To rebut the proof of a general usage of an allowance of fiveper cent for mea-',
surement, other invoices were properly troduced in which there was-no
such allowance.'
er
Where a witness was introducedeto prove such usage, and had verified his own
invoices, it was admissible to read a letter which had been addressed to the
witness and was annexed to one of the invoices.
Revenue-laws, *for the lirevention of fraud, for the suppression of a public
wrong, or to effect a public good, are not, in a strict sense, penal acts, although they impose a Penalty. But they ought. to be so construed as most effectually to accomplish the intintion of the legislature in passing them, in.
stead of being construed with great strictness i4 faVour of the defendant.
C.oncealment and under-valuation of goods are good grounds, amo.ngst otbers,
for a decision of the court, that probable cause.of prosecution existed.
The 68th section of the act of 1799 reaches cases where, by a'false and fraudu-.
lent under-valuation, less than the amountof duties required bylaw has been
-Taid as well as those where-no duties at all have been paid.

•Tins case came up by writ-of error from the Circuit Couit of tie
1United StAtes *forthe eastern district of Pennsylvania.

