JANUARY TERM, 1845.

JOHN McDoNoGH, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. LAuIRNT MiLLAUDON AND
OTHERS, DEmENDANTS.

The treaty by which Louisiana was ceded to the United States recognised complete grants, issued anterior to the cession, and a decilion of a state court
against the validity of a title set up, under such a grant, would be subject to
revisal by this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
But if the state court only applies the local laws of the state to the construction:
ofthe grant, it is not a decision against its validity, and this court has no
jurisdiction.
Congress, in acting upon complete grants, recognised them as they stood; and
the act- of I1th May, 1820, confirming such as were recommended for confirmation by the register and receiver, had no reference to any particular
surveys..
A decision of a state court, therefore, which may be in opposition to one of
these surveys, is not against the validity of a title existing under an act of
Congress, and this court has no jurisdiction in such a case.
Where 'acause has been pending in this court for two terms, a writ of certiorari
sent down at the instance of the defendant in error, to complete the record,
and the defehdant in error then moves to dismiss the case upon the ground
that the cerk of a state court issued the writ of error, and one of the judgesof that court signed the citation, the moti6n comes loo late.

Tuis case was broghLt-up by-Writ of error, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, from the, Supreme Court of the state of
Louisiana.
The decision of this court being against its juridiction, it seems
best to give the opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, as the
facts in the case and the pbints decided by that court are.stated
with great clearness.
"Supreme Court of the state- of Louisiana.
"The court met, Monday, April 26th, 1841.
", Present, their honours Henry A. Bullard, A Morphy, E. Simon,
and Rice Garland. His honour Judge Martin is absent on account
.of indisposition.
"Laurent Miltaudoa et al., appellees,
John McDonogh, appellant.

Appeal from .the District Court for the

)

First Judicial District.

The plaintiffs (Millaudon and others, who were plaintiffs in the
original action) allege that they,* with Henry T. Williaas and
Charles F. Zimpel, purchased a large tract of land of A. F. Rightor,
being a portion of a claim or grant generally known as the
toumas,
in the parish of Ascension. They took possession'wifh the intention of dividing it into smaller tracts and selling them at auction, to
effect a partition ; but were prevented from doing so by the acts and
conduct of the defendant, -w.ho publicly declared that he was the
owner of a large portion of the land, and slandered their title.
They say they have requested him to desist his slanders, or to bring
suit to assert his title, which he declines. They pray that he be
compelled to set-forth his title, if he has any, and if he fail to do so,

694

SUP REME 'COURT.
McDonogh v-Millaudon, et al.

that they be quieted in their possession against his claims and petensions; that he-be enjoined and ordered to desist therefrom; and,
further, that they have judgment for fifty thousand dollars -damages
for the tortious acts of the said defendant.
" The defendant pleads a.general denial; then specially that the
plaintiffs have no title; he further avers he is the true and lawful
owner of the land by good and sufficient titles, and concludes by a
demand in reconvention, in which he prays the plaintiffi may becited to answer; - that.they be compelled to produce and exhibit
their titles,, and that he be.quieted and maintained in his possession
of the land.
"The plaintiffs, for answer to this-reconvention demand, plead the
g/neral issue,,andc called -on A. F. Rightor, as their warrantor;.to
maintain and defend their title against that of McDonogh. Rightor
answers the'call in war.anty by a plea of the general issue; secoidly,
that the plaintiffs are not entitled to'the remedies against him, which
they claim; thirdly, 'that they had'a perfect knowledge of the character and extent of the defendant's -claim when they purchased,
and, therefore, have no right to call on him as. warrantor. He further says, the plaintiffs have a good -ahd sufficient title; that McDonogh.bas none at all ' and if be has, he is bound to sue the plaintiffls
to establish it, or abandon his claim. He prays that McDonogh be
compelled to exhibit his title; that it be rejected; and he concurs
in the prayer of the plaintiffs against him, (McDonogh.)
". It.is further prayed that the cause be tried by a jury; but, subsequently,.the parties agreed -to submit the question of titles to the
court, reserving the damages to a trial before the jury.
"The issues in this case are somewhat complicated; it has been.
argued at great length and with eminent ability., A variety'of questions have been raised by .bills of exceptions,:which, with the eiidence, have swelled the record to a great size; and both plaintift
and defendant evidently desire the court to go much.farther into an
investigation of,-and decision upon, their respective titles, than. is
necessary for the gettlement 6f the controversy between them. We
think we can see difficulties enough likely to arise out of koth, these'
claims, in which persons not now before us.may be interested. We
shall not anticipate the points that may hereafter be made, and will
now only decide what is inilispensable to the adjustment of thedifficulty between the parties before us.
f The first question is, upon which- party lies the burden of proof
as .to the title of the land. The defendant says, it rests, upon his
adversaries and their warrantor. We think differently. The reasons given by the district judge, in his judgment, have not been
refuted, and are, in our opinion,.unanswerable, He says, the demand of the plaintiffs in their. original petition does not constitute a
petitory action.' It is 'destitute- of the first requisite of that actio' ,
not being brought against apariy allegedtobe'in possession. Code

JANUARY TE-RM,. 1845.

696

McDonogh v. Millaudon, et al.

of Pract. art 43. On the contrary, the plaintiffs allege they were in
possession, and are disquieted and prevented from making a legifmate use and profit out of their possession and titlb, by the word and
acts of the defendant; for which cause they ask for damages, and
that he be enjoined from sdtting up any'claim "for the iuture, unless
.hedo it at once, either in the present action or by afbther suit. It
is true, the defendant sayi he is in possession also;' and had he
rested ais case mupon that allegation, it is possible the question would
have been limited to that inquiry, according to art. 49 of the Code
.of Practice. But the defendant has gone further; without excepting td the form of the action, he comes up to the mark, sets up title
in himself, and institutes a reconventional demand; asking that the
property be adjudged to him. This reconventional or cross action,
which is by the Code of Practice consolidated with the principal or
original' suit, is clearly petitory, and imposes on. McDonogh the oblation of making the proof requisite to sustain his demand. So
fuly does this seem to have been understood by the parties oripnally,-that all the subsequent proceedings are in accordance with
the idea of the original defendant having become pro hdc vice the
plaintiff. The plaintiffs cite their. vendor, Rightor, in warranty.todefend their title, according to Code of Practice, article 379; et sequittr. Every provision of that code-assumes that the warrantor
is a defendant in the issue.
"There are various decisions'of this court, and we hold it well settled, that, the last warrantor is the real defendant in a suit against
his vendees--not only against the -party who cites him, but more
particularly against the orginal actor. That person in the present
suit, so far as Rightor is concerned both ii *substance and form, is
McDonogh , whose pretensions he is called upon by his vendees to
resist. This question has been heretofore decided by this court, in
9 Martin, 556, and 11 Louis..Rep. 188; aid we see no reason for
changing the precedents.
"Mc'onogh, holding the. affirmative .of the issue, offered in evidence a certified copy.from the register or record of complete grants
in-the Land-bffice in New Orlears, by which it appeared that on the
3d of April,- 1769, the French governor of Louisiani granted to
Pierre Joseph Delille Dupard, l3re, a tract.of land having thirty ar.
pens front on the Mississippi river, with all the depth which might
be found to Lake Maurepas, of the land where formerly.stood two
villages of the Collapissa Indians, situated about sixteen'leagues
above the city, on the same side ; to take from the. plantation of a
person named Allemand, and join that of a free mulatto named
Joseph Lacomb. The usual stipulations and reservations are made
in this grant. To its reception in evidence various objections were
made,-'which were overruled, and bills- of exceptions taken by
Rightor, and the grant attached after it was received as being a nu-

696

SUPREME COURT.
.McDonogh

v. Millaudon, et al.

lity on various grounds. -It is not_ necessary in the present case to
decide any of these questions.
_ "The counsel for Rightor,'on whom devolved the whole defence
ofthis, case,, (the plaintiffs not appearing at all, further-than to join
issue with'McDonogh,) insists that, supposing the grant to Delille.
Dupard to be geiuine, given by competent -authority,--and all the
rights of the grantee, vested in his opponent, (all of which he.specialy denies, however,) that then this action cannot be maintained;
because, he says, it being for a certain front and depth, and it not
being specified that the lines are to open or close in any manner, it'
must be located by parallel lines; and the evidence shows conclusively that, if so located, it will not touch any portion of the land
claimed by the -plaintiffs. But the counsel for McDoniogh insist,
the lines should open upwards of twenty degrees, and endeavour to
prove that it has Jeen located, and should, so continue, as to let the
lower line touch the western shore of Lake Maurepas, and the upper
running westerly strike the Amite river at a distance of about nineteen miles from the Mississippi, 'and nearly that distafice from the
point where the lower line touches the lake. Nothing is said in the
grant about the Aimite river,-nor is it shown that the lines should
open in this manner, so as to include the sites of the two Indian villages mentioned in it. If this location were to be- sanctioned, the
Dupard claim would cover somewhere about one hundred thousand
arpens of land.
"To sustain their position, the counsel for McDonogh insist strenuously on what -bey call a plat made by Don Carlos Trudeau, in
1790, which they say indicates the partition of'the tract among the
-heirs and legal represehtatives of Delille-Dupard, as on it it is said
the lines open in the rear as claimed.. This document was objected
to as evidence by the counsel of Rightor, but received by th6 dourt,
with the exception of a written memorandum uion it, and a bill of
exception taken, which we'consider it unnecessary to decide on, as
we think the paper does not prove what is alleged, not is it entitled
to any weight as vidence. "It is neither a survey, or plat, or a copy
properly -authenticated, showing how the partition was made. • On
the face, it is'apparent a partition had been made previously, and
there is evidqnce in the record showing it must have been made severalyears previous, as. one of the heirs sold her portion to Fonteneau, in 1784. Thisplan is evidently nothing more than a sketch
made by Trudeau to represent the front of the tract, which it seems
had'increased from thirty aipens front, in 1769, to upwards of forty
arpens, in 1790. There is not about it that particularity and neatness which marks -the operations of the former surveyor-general of
the province of Louisiana. The lines drawn seem to be experimental or provisional. None of those funning out from the river
have any length -marked, and out of fifteen lines drawn or dotted,
but six have any bearing indicated, and-that is different on each of

JANUARY TERM], 1845.

697

McDonogh v. Millaudon et al.

them. The statement in writing, on the face of the sketch, indicates
its true character. It is not in the form of a proc~s verbal, but is
stated to be a note which says that the land belonging to the succession having been asserted to have thirty-five arpens front, according
to the declarations of the parties interested, and-conformably to the
writing and sales passed by the heirs-in favour of Henry Fonteneau,
Gelar Vedro Le Bourgeois, Alexandre- Lange;,. mulatto, and Don
Francisco Dupard, the sonf the only one who had not sold his portion; but from the verification that was had in the month of March,
1787, repeate'd this day, the 10th of Auguft, in the current year, the
same was found to coitain forty arpens and twenty-three toises front,
on the Mississippi, measured upon the lines marked (punteas) a, b,
c, *&c., &c. This is dated the 10th of August, 1790, and signed by
-Carlos Trudeau.
In no part of this note or statement does he a$sume any official character. If this plan or sketch was of any validity at all, it would perhaps prove -more for the defendant than he
wishes, asit fixes this claim in the parish of St. John the Balitist,
instead of the county of Acadia. In connection-with, this plan,, we
find.another in the record, which is authentic, that differs from 1tin
various particilars. It appears that Henri Fonteneau, in 1784, purchased' of Mad'e Maenamora, one of the heirs of Delille Dupard, her
portion of the lind,'being, pne-fifth.- In. the act of sale made, in pre-'
sence -of the commandant of the port or parish of St. John the .Baptist, the land -is described as a tract in that parishb, having seven arpens front on the river, by the ordinary -depth, (profondeur ordi.na/re.) Not a word is said about the lines extending to the lake, or
their opening. On the 24th -of September, in.the year 1790, Trudea makes a survey of this land, places it inthe parish aforesaid,
gives it a front of eight arpens, four toises, and tdlee feet;front, and
side line
to runminutes
north eight degrees and fifty minutes
states
the lower
east,
and
theattending
upper,
north
to cinqu~nta
the-ne&
die, without
to theten
variation. west, according
ociw grados
dfrrte
minutas este de la actua"agwja sin attendes a la variadon. This varies widely from other plans and surveys submittof to us; it in fact
differs from any other plnt that we see in the record, and it is the
only authentic one of the lower portion of the Dupard claim made
by authority of the Spanish government. We have no other evi•until
denceMcDonogh
-of any welland
founded
to an
openingintowards
rear,
Brown claim
became
interested
the land.the They
purchased upwards of eighteen arpens front, by eighty in depth, of
Pierre Le Bourgeois, the 3d of Marcn, 1806; and in the act of sale
there is nothing said of' the lin~s extending beyond that depth, or
opening
any manner; but it is mentioned that two pints of survey
exist, andinwere
delivered by the vendor to the purchasers, paraphed
by the notary, neither of which are produced.
/
iWhen the inventory ofthelille Dupard's estate was made in 1776,
the land is represented as extending to Lake
owaurepas, but not a
VoL,. II.--88
3N

98

SUPREME -COURT.
MXcDonogh v. Millaudon et a].

word said of there being an opening.towards the rear. Some time
after McDonogh and Brown purchased of Le Bourgeois, they presented the claim for confirmation to the commissioners of the United
States, in the eastern district of Louisiana, and represented it as
having a front of eighteen arpens,_three toises, and three feet, front;
by eighty qrpens deep; and having an opening of twenty degrees
and seventy-one minutes towards the rear; and with the exception
of a'small portibn, it was confirmed to that extent. o2 Am. State
*Papers, Public Lands, W32. This claim was based upon a grant of
the Spanish government to Le Bourgeois, nothing being said about
a grant to Dupard..
"Aflother portion of this claim was derived from Dupard, through
L. H. Guerlain, agent of the Eastern-Shore of Maryland Louisiana
Company. We have carefully examined this branch of the. title,
and find nothing to prove"the claim had any .opening, until some-time after it was recognised by the United States. In 2 American
State Papers, relating to public lands, p. 297, this claim was presented for confirmation, and described as 'situate on'the east side
of the Mississippi river, in the county of Acadia, containing ten arpens and seven toises in front, and a depth extending to Lake Manrepas, bounded on one side by McDonogh and Brown, and on the
other by land of Antoine Tregle.' Not a word is said about an
opening. The claim is confirmed for a depth of forty arpens, and
rejected for the remainder. On pages 300 aid 343 of the same
volume, it will be seen these dlaims were again under the consideration of the commissioners, and rejected.' An examination of the
title of the remaining portion of this claim, which comes through
Tregle, establishes the fact that the idea of the Dupard grant opening towards the rear was of moaern origin. It is.certain that McDonogh did not consider it as extending to the Amite river previous to
1806, as hQ was himself established on that stream some years previous, .inder a different title, or as a trespasser.
on
subsequentof action
"We have been
thusthat
particular
of the
in the
examination
all these
the effects
to show
circumstances,
the claim are not such as contended for by the'defendant.
we asdertain that McDonogh & Co.
record,
from the State
254, and
p. "In
3 American
Papers,
relating to the public lands,
again applied to the register of the Land-office and receiver of pubthe entvrounder
this
report onthe
in New
moneys
lic
1813,
January,
27thclaim,
Congress,to passed
act ofOrleans,
of the
visibns
fled 'An act giving further time for registering claims to landsin te
eastern and western district of the territory of Orleans, now state of
Louisiana.' It is described as 'atract of land situated in the county
of Acadia, on the east shore of the Mississippi, sixteen leagues above
New Orleans, containing thirty-two arpens" front. with a depth extending as far as Lake Maurepas. "This tract has formerly 'been
claimed before the board of commissioners, and the dcpth extending

JANUARY TERM, 1846.

699

McDonogh v, Millaudon et a].

beyond forty acres rejected by them for-wantof evidence of, title;
6"4the claimants have since produced a complete French title,for
the whole quantity claimed, in-favour of Delille Dupard~under whom
they claim, dated the 3d of April, 1769.'." His claim is placed by
the register and receiver in the first class; which, they say, compreheads such claims as stand confirmed by law. It will be observed
that the grant to Delille Dupard is now spoken of for the first time;
his claim, whenever mentioned previously, was described as one derived from the Collapissa Indians, yet-no mention is made in this report of its having any opening in the -rear. That difficulty is met
by the defendant by the production of d paper Which, he says, is a
survey and blat of his claim made by F. V. Pbtier, a United States
surveyor, which it is certified was offered as part of the evidence in
support of the claim, when last presented for the action of the United
States comiissioners; and it is alleged that as the claim was confirmed, it must necessarily be so to the extent inenti6ned in the plat,
it being a portion of the evidence. Admitting for a moment-that
this plat is valid, we are not prepare4 to saylthat the proposition is
true to the extent stated. One piece of evjdence does not fli the
extent and character of a decision, but we must look to all that is
offered, and the amount demanaed. There is ndthin in what is
said by' the register and receiver, whichi authorizes a befief that any
opening was claimed, or any was intended to be confirmed. McDonogh & Co. simply say they claim a 'front of thirty-two arpens, with
a depth extending as far as Lake Maurepas,' under a complete title
to Dupard, and the cominissioners say it is a claim that stands confirmed by law.
"'The omission to mention any thing about the plat goes to show
it was not regarded, or hadbut little weight, and we can scarcely
suppose that so important an opening, as is claimed, would have
been passed over in silence; if it had been seriously pressed.
"We are of opinion, that the plat, even if admissible as evidence,
is not entitled to any weight as establishing the extent of the claim.
Although Potier says he is a sworn surveyor, commissioned by the
surveyor-general of the United States, we know of no right that
gives him to run out clims under the direction of individuals merely,
and fix the boundaries of those not recognised by the government.
It is not pretended he acted under any authority from his supeiior
in, making what is called a survey; it never was -presented to the
surveyor-general for his approval, nor does it seen to have had the
legal sanction of any one authorized to act in the premises.
Potier does not pretend it is a regular survey; he calls it 'plan
extrait .des minutes de nor cr rations d~arpentage faite dlans les
annes 1806, 1808, et 1812, les queller lignes en diverr terns ont
la vi~re .3mite et "demarqud conform ment
t6 pJarcouruer jurqu'irz
aux ligner du ptan.' He then goes on to say, Delille Dupar.d had
described his title from the Collapissa.Indians, and sold it to various

700

SUPREME COURT.
McDonogh v. Millaud'on et al.

persons. He does not seem even to have heard of a grant from the
French government in 1769, or attempted - location in conformity
to it.
"The defendant further states that his claim has been located by
the Unitedl4tates since its confirmation, and surveyed in the manner
claimetd by him. To establish this, he offered in evidence* copies
of three township plats, to wit: tchwnship No. 10 south, ranges five
and six east,. and township No. 11 south, range 5 east. To the
introducti6n of these plats as evidence Rightor objected, because
the papers are not, nor do they purport to be, copies of the original
plats of those townships, and for other causes mentioned in his bill
of- exceptions. -The district judge admitted them in evidence, in
which
we think he erred. The papers are copies of copies2 and it is
mofy when
better
can that
be procured.
is further apparent,
a well set{led
rule evidence
of evidence
they are notIt admissible
as testifrom the certificate of the register of the Land-office, that they are
not correct copies. The claim of McDonogh is represented on
these copies in a manner differing from that in which it appears on
the plats in the register's office. The register states on one of the
plats, that on the original 'section No. 1 is not coloured,' but that
he had ' represented it as it now appears, at .the re4uest of John
McDonogh, Esq.'
Fae colouring of these.maps was, perhaps,
not intended to deceive or impose on any person, but when it is
recollected that surveyors represent private claims properly located
on their plats in a colouring different from public lands or doubtful
rights, such a representation is calculated to make an -erroneous
impression. But the objection, most fatal to the reception of these
plats as evidence, is 'that they are certified by 'aperson not the
keeper of the original. 'The-surveyor-general of the United Sates
for this statp is.the officerwho has charge of the public surveys, and
he is the proper.person to certffy the" twnship maps. 2 Land
Laws, 294, sect. 6. The copzes of public surveys deposited in the
office of the register of the Land-office are placed there for his
government, and to enable him to perform the duties imposed by
-law, but he has not legal authority to certify copies so as to make
them legal -evidence. The law intrusts that power to another
person.
'1Although we are of opinion these plats were improperly received
in evidence, we have examined them with a view to see if the pretended survey would justify the claim of the defendant. We do not
find in the record the slightest evidence of authority from any pfilcer
of the United States to locate this claim in.any manner. The acts
of Congress of the 12th of April, 1814, and the 3d of March, 1831,
direct the mode of locating private claims. 1' Land Laws,: 652,
sects. 3, 4; 2 Land Laws' 294, sect. 6. There are also other -acts of Congress- in relation to the location

701

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
MeDonogh v. Millaudon

et al.

of particular classes of claims, but the defendant does not come
within the-provisions of any of them.
cIt has been decided that the court and jury will look beyond
the confiTmation of a claim by the land commissiQners or Confess,
emanating from the former .gove~mments of Louisiana, in order to
ascertain the extent and boundaries-of the land claimed. 11 Louis.
Rep. 587. We have acted on that principle in this case, and see no
reason to .depart from our previous decision, that when the expressions in a title only convey a certain front and depth, the grantee or
purchaser cannot claim by diverging lines to the rear, and thereby'
obtain more than the superfices contained in, a parallelogram, unless
there be something in the grant to authorize the opening, or, from
the peculiar position of the claim, it shall be necessary to give the
superficial quantity. 'That does not appear necessary in the case
before us.
"1We repeat, that it is not our purpose to decide in any manner
upon4-the validity of thelHumas' grant, under whichthe plaintiffs claim,
nor do we decide any thing more in relation'to that yalleged to be in
favour of Delille Dupard, under -which the defendant claims, than to
say, whether it is for thirty or forty arpens front, and is eighty arpens
or more in depth, it must -be located by parallel lines, unless the
confirmatibn to McDonogh and Brown for eighteen arpens, three
toises, and three feet, front, by eighty in -depth, should for that quantity authorize the opening mentioned in the report on the claim, but
it cannot extend beyond-it.
" It is clear from the evidence before us, that the claim of the defendanf, if located in'the manner specified, cannot in any wayinterfere with the land claimed by ihe plaintiffs as shown by the plats laid
before us.
"1The judgment of the District Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs."
To review this opinion, under -the 26th section of the Judiciay
Act, a writ of error was sued out, by -which the case was brought
up to this court.
Jones and .Meredith, for the plaintiff in error.
Coxe and William Cost Johnson, for the defendants in error.
A motion had been previously made and argued on the part of the
defendant in error, to dismiss the case upon three grounds.
1. That the writ of error.had been irregularly issued.
2. That no jurisdiction was shown by the- record to exist under
the 25th secion of the Judiciary Act.
3. That the judgment of the court below was not final.
The writ of error was issued by A. Cuvillier, Clerk of Supreme
Court of Louisiana, eastern district.
-

Coxe, in support of the motion to dismiss, ieferred to 2 Dallas,
3 i2

-702

'S3UPREME COURT.
MeDonogh v. Millaudon et aL.

401, and said that in consequence of .this decision, an act of Congress was passed in May, 1792, (L Story, 260.-) In 8 Wheat; 312,
324, it was held that the 9th section of the act of 1792 applied to
bringing up cases from the Circuit Courts of the United States, and
also from the highest tribunal of 'a state, when this court can take
jurisdiction under the 25th section. -4 Dallas, 22; 9 Peters, 602;
McCollim v. Eager, 2 Howard; 7 Wheat. 164; 12 Wheat. 117;
2 Peters,-380; 3 Peters, 392; 10 Peters, 368; 9 Peters, 224;
7 Peters, 41; 11 Peters,.167.
Meredith, in reply, said that there'was a difference which must
beborne in'mind, between the English system and ours: In England the writ was an -original *rit5 issuing out of-the court. of chancery, which had a double nature. -It was a c'ertiorari to remove
the record, and a cbmmission.to the superior court to affirm orreverse
the judgment. .2 Saund. Rep. 100, (1.)
• Under our judiciary system, it is nothing mdre than a certiorari
to rer4ove the *record. It imparts no authority to this court. Itgives no jurisdiction. ' The President of the-United States, in whose
name te writ issues'here, 'has no power tb-confer jurisdiction upon
this court, as the king has in England, in whose name the writ is'sues
there. Here it is given s6lely by the Constitution and laws. It is
a mere -instrument in id of the revising and appellate power, but is
'not indispensable. - Its sole purpose is to bring the record into
court; and if the record is in coiirt, or a copy properly certified and
brouight there by the party aggrieved by the judgment, with due
.notice to 'the other party, there can be no dificulty in proceeding
to exercise the'appellate power. In order to show that if a copy of
the record be ii possession of the court, the mode of its rem6val
will not be inquired into, it iiiay be mentioned that a large portion
of the -cases brought here under the 25th- section, -are brought without writs of error,,iz., chancery cases and admiralty decrees, which
are brought simply by a prayer of appeal with citation; and yet the
25th section requires a writ 6f error in all cases, decrees as well as
judgments. In. Martin ti. Hunter, the 'state court refused to make
return to the writ, and the plaintiff in error procured an exemplification of the'record and brought it himself into this court. 1 Wheat.
349;. 6 Wheat. 264.
'If a writ of error is a mere mode of removing the record, and if
the mode of removal is form arid not substance; if it gives no jurisdiction'to the court, but is a mere instrument to facilitate the exercise of the appellate power, then we contend that any defect in the
writ itself, or any irregularity in issuing it- is'immaterial.
1. It may be waived. The general iole is, that irregularities and
'defects in the process or pleadings may be waived.
A writ issued' with an illkgal teste, maybe waived. 2Pick. 592,
and the eases referred to in p. 595:

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

703

MeDonogh v. Millaudon et al.

21 Pick. 535. The action wasagainst a deputy sheriff. The
writ was served by a coroner; service bad, hut cured by appearance.
1 Metc. 508. A motion to' dismiss the action, or quash tiIa writ,
if not founded on matter of exceptions, whish show want of jurisdiction of the court, comes too late after pleading to the action.
In this case the facts shrw a waiver. The record was filed 24th
October, 1842. There was an appearance. This is the third term
the case has been here. Therd was a motion for certiorari at last
term. All which iake a strong case of implied waiver.
2. If not waived, the defect is cured by the 32d section of the
act of 1789. 1 Paine, 486.
But we contend that the writ was regularly issued. The record'
shows a petition signed by the counsel of the plaintiff in error, and
addressed to the Snpreme Court of Louisiana, assigning reasons why
a writ of error would lie, and praying that it may be allowed,
Upon which, that court issued the following order:
"Let the writ of error be allowed according to law. The petitioner to give bond and security in the sum of five hundred dollars.
(Signed)
"F. X. MATI."
From these proceedings it is manifest that the state judge thought
he had authority to issue the writ. See dictum of Johnson, J.,
1 Wheat. 379.
There is nothing prohibitory in the section. It says "up o n a
writ of error," bt does not ay when or how it is to be issued.
The provision respecting a citation shows, that.it was the design of
the law to promote the converience of suitors. 'To allow the suitor
to apply to a stat6 judge for a citation, and yet compel him to go fo
the Circuit Court for the writ, would conduce nothing to his convenience.
It may be said that our construction would lead to the anomaly
of a court issuing a mandatory writ to itself. )But, in fact, this is
no anomaly in our legislation.' By the act of 1792, sect. 11,
(1 Story, 260,) the writ of error is directed to be issued out of the
Circuit Court, under its seal, returnable to this court.
2d. The judgment is said not to be final. (Mr. .Meredith's argument upon this point is omitted.)
3. As to the jurisdiction of this court. A classification of the
cases in which jurisdiction is conferred, is made in 10 Peters, 398;
6 Peters, 285.
What appears then from the record, and the decision of the court?
It is.Apparent that MoDonogh relied upon the confirmation of his
title, by the report of the register and receiver, and the act of Congress.
The district judge decided, that his claim was not embraced by
thv. act; that there had beeii no confirmation.
If the writ of err'or had been taken to this. judgment, there could
have been no doubt of the jurisdiction.

704

SUPREME COURT..
McDonogh

v. Millaudon et al.

A construction of the act was directly drawn in question; and the
decision was against the right and title specially set up and claimed
by McDonogh, under the act,
The writ of error, howeyer, is to the judgment of the Supreme
Court.
It is apparent that in that court also, McDonogh relied upon the
confirmation of his title, by the -act of Congress.
What title?
A title to the whole extent of his claim, as established by the
evidence of a survey before the register and receiver, and by them
so confirmed.
Whatever they reported was confirmed by the act. And in the
absence of all evidence of a prior title out of the United States,
the report and confirmation were -conclusive. Strother v. Lucas,
12 Peteis, 410; Grignon v. Astor, 2 How. 319; Boatner v. Walker,.
11 Louis. Rep. 582. But the Supreme Court decided, that assuming
the confirmation of the act of Congress, it was a ponfirmation of the
bare title, without any ascertainment of location. And that although
no title was shown 'by Rightor, they had a right to look beyond the
'confirmation, and ascertain the extent and boindaries of the claim.
'Now here again, the construction of the act of- Congress was
drawn in question: - for McDonogh relied on it as a confirmation of
his title for the whole, quantity of land,-elimed before the register
and receiver.
But the court gave a different construction of. the act; and therefore decide against the right and title specialy set up under it by
McDonogh.
It is a case then clearl j.ithin the 25th section.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in the Supreme Court of Louisiana was one of
boundary. The court passed on the grant to Dupard only, and not
on the opposing claim: if the lines of the former did not open in
their production from the Mississippi, towards Lake Maurepas, then
the land claimed under Millaudon's title was not embraced by
Dupard's grant, and -no necessity existed for the examination of
Millaudon's. Dupard's was .made in 1769, ."for thirty arpens of
fr6nt to the river Mississippi, upon the whole depth that shall be
found, unto Lake Maurepas, of the land where heretoford were two
villages of the Collapissa savages; to take from the platation of
one Allemand, unto its junction with that of a person named Joseph
Lacombe." The front being ascertained, the court below held that
the extension back mist be on parallel lines. As this construction
excluded the land claimed by Millaudon, it ended the controversy
in his favour.
Did this final judgment draw in question the construction -of a
treaty or statute of the United. States; or of an authority exercised

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

705

McDonogh v. Millaudon et al.

under the same: and was the decision-against the validity of either;
or against the title, or right set up or claimed under either? If these
questions are answered in the negative, it follows we have no jurisdiction to re-examine, or reverse the judgment under the 25th section
9f the Judiciary Act; as no other error is -within the cognisance of
this court.
1. The treaty with France, of 1803, gave-no further sanction to
the boundary of McDonogh's title than it had by the grant; in respect to its validity, the decision of the state court supported the
claim to the same extent that the treaty protected it, and therefore
the decision was not opposed to the reaty. A question partly'involving this consideration was adjudged in The City of New Orleans,
v. De Armas, 9 Peters, 225, to which 'we refer.
2. Was the decision of the. Supreme Court of Louisiana opposed
to any act of Congress? Dupard's grant was completed as early
as 1769, and presented to the register and receler as a complete
title; was thus reported on by them to the General Land-office, and
by that department the report was laid before Congress ; it is as
follows:
"No. 406.
"John Mclbonogh & Company claim a tract -of land situated in
the county of Acada, on the east shore of the river Mississippi, sixteen leagues above New Orleaiv, containing thirty-two arpens front,
,with a depth extending as far as Lake Maurepas.
"This tract of land has formerly been claimed before the board
of commissioners, and, the depth extending beyond forty acres, rejected by them, for wantcif evidence of title; but the claimant has
.since produced a complete French title to the whole quantity claimed,
in favour of Pierre Delille Dupard, (under whom he claims;) dated
3d day of April, 1769.",
On. the report at large, embracing many claims, Congress proceeded; and by the act of May 11th, 1820, declared, "that the
claims to lands within the eastern district of Louisiana, described by
.the register and receiver of said district in their report to the commissioner of. the General Land-office, bearing date the 20th day of
November, 1816, and recommended in said report for confirmation,
be, and the shine are hereby confirmed, against any claim on part of
the United States."
MoDonogh's claim, No. 406, is df class first, species first, in
the report, including twenty-one grants, of which the, register and
receiver say: "All the preceding claims, being founded on complete
titles, are in our opinion confirmed by law.'.' 3 Am. State Papers,
255. This is explained in page 267, where it is again said: "1Those
claims which are found under species first of the first class, being
founded on complete grants of former governments, we think'are
good in themselves on general principles, and therefore require no
VOL. III.-89

SUPREME COURT.
XcDonogh v. Millaudon et aL

confirmation by the government of the United States to give them
validity."
Many incopnplete tides were recommended for confirmation, and
confirmed by Congress, -buf in these cases the former governments
had not parted -with the ullmate interest ini the land, and the fee was
transferred to the United States by thedreaty, with the equityattached
in the claimant,. which equity was clothed with the fee' by the confirming act. The perfect title of McDonogh being clothed with the
highest sanction, and in full property, on the change of governments
an assumption to confirm.it would have been pregnant with suspicion that itrequired confirmation by this government, in addition to
the general law of nations and the treaty of 1803, which secured in
full property such titles. That the grant stands recognised as complete and valid against the United States, and any one claiming
under them, by the proceedings had before the register and -'eceiver
and by Congrss, we have io doubt; further than this, the government has.not acted on it. In such'sense similar titles have been
treated, as will be seen by-the two acts of May 8th, 1822-the first
confirming lots'in the town of Mobile and clamns in West Florida;
the second, sanctioning the reports of the registers and receivers of
the land-offices at St. Helena Court House and at Jackson CNurt
House, in the districts east and west of ]Pearl -river; in regard to
which reports, Congress says: That all'complete titles (reported on.
as such) be, and the same are, recognised as valid and complete
against the United States, or any right derived under them.
But in McDonogh's case, as in other similar ones referred to
above,- the recognition extended only to the boundaries the grants
themselves furlnshed, according to their landmarks, and true construotion under the local laws in virtue of which they were obtained.
3. To overcoine this 6bjection., it is insisted,, on the' part of the
plaintiff in error, that McDonogh & Company filed plans of survey
and descriptions of the land with the register and- receiver, and
especjally that of F. V. Potier, as part of their title, giving the boundaries as they were claimed before the Supreme Court of Louisiana;
that these were confirmed by Congress; that the confirmation,.to the
extent it was made, is binding on the United Stat6s; as the opposing
claim of Millaudon was not drawn. in controversy below, and the
lands claimed. treated as unappropriated, by individuals.
If-the faht assumed was true, that the plans and descriptions had
been confirmed- and boundary given to the title accdrdinr to them
by the United States, then the decision would be opposed to 'the
confirmation, and jurisdiction exist in this court.
There can be no doubt such plans and desciiptions were filed
and. recorded in due time, but no evidence is found in the record
that the register and receiver acted- on themi or that they were pregented to Congress even as documents accompanying the report;
if they were, it ismanifest that they Were disregarded, for two rea-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

707

Gantly's Lessee. v. Ewing.

sons: first, because Congress did not assume the powerto deal dire cty
with this title at all; and, secondly, because the report had reference
singly to the face of the grant , regardless of private surveys made subsequent to its date, at the instance of the successive owners.
The state court held McDonogh's title to be valid to every extent
that it has been recognised-by the United States, and only applied
the local laws of Louisiana in its construction, so far as they had a
controlling influence on the manner in which the side lines should
b'e extended from the Mississippi river towards Lake Maurepas; and
as, in so doing, neither the treaty of 1803, nor any act of Congress,
or authority exercised under the United States, -was drawn in question, this- court has no jurisdiction to revise the decision of that
court; for which reason, the cause must'be dismissed.
'The clerk of the Supreme Court of Louisiana issued the writ of
error,.and one of the judgesr of that court signed the citation ; and,
on the ground that such writ could not remove the record, it was
moved on a former day of the term to dismiss the cause. It has
been here for two terms; a writ of certiorari, has been sent down, at
the'instance of the defendant in error, in whose behalfothe motion is
made, to complete the record; he 'now moves to dismiss for the first
time, and We think he comes too late. If errors had been assigned
by the plaintiff here, and joined by the defendant, no motion to dismiss for such a cause could be heard; and as no formal err6rs are
usually assigned in this court, atid none were assigned in this cause,
we think the delay to make the motion is equal to a joinder in
error, even if the clerk of the Supreme Court of Louisiana had no
authority to issue the writ, on which we at present express no
opinion.
LEssEE OF DANIEL W. GANTLY -BT AL., PLAXNTIFF, V.WxLIuAN (.'AND
GEORGE W. Ewuto, ,DEFENDANTS.A law of the state of Indiana; directing "that real'and personal estate, taken in
execution, shall sell for the best price the same will bring at public auction
and outcry, except that the ree-simple of real-estate shall not be sold to satisfyany execution or executions, until the rents and'profits for the term of seven
years of such real estate shall have been first ofr'erpd for sale at public auction and outcry; and ifsuchrents and profits will not sell for a sum sqfficient
to satisfy such-execution or executions, then the fei-simple shall be sold," is
not merely directory to the sheriff, but restrictive of his power to sell the fee-,
simple.
If he sells the fee-simple without having previously offered the refits and profits,

his deed is void.
The law of Indiana, passed after the execution was issued, also required that
,,theproperty shlotld be apjraised. The sheriff's deed was not void, because
of there being no appraisement.

Tins case came up on a certificate of division from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiafia.

