JANUARY TERK 14.

Tim UNITED EXATES, PLAINTF IN ERROR, V. RICHARD Kn
DAMEL W. COXE, DZFrNDAWrS..

AM

The certificate of survey alleged to have lNeen given by Trudeau, on- the 14th
of June, 1797, and brought forward to sustain agrant to the Marquis de Maison Rouge, declared ante-dated -and fraudulent.
The circumstance that a copy of this paper. was delivered by the Spanish anthorities in 1803, is not sufficient tc prevent its authenticity from being impeached.
Leaving this certificate out of the case, the instruments executed. by the Baron
de Carondelet in 1795 and 1797, have not the aid of any authentic survey to
asdertain and fix the limits of the land, and to determine its location;
This court has .repeatedly decided, and in cases too where the instrument con.
taied clear words of grant, that if the description was vague and indefinite,
and there was no official survey to give it a certain location, it could crehte
noright of private property in any particular parcel of land,hich could be
maintained in a court of justice.
An equitable title is ito defence in a suit brought by the United States. An imiperfect title derived .from Spain, before the cession, cannot be supported
against a party claiming under a grant from the United States.
The act Qf Congress of the 29th April, 1816, confirming the grant t,the extent
of a league square, restricted it to that quantity, and cannot be construed asconfirming the residue.
Query: Whether'the acceptance, by the claimant, of this league square, affected
his title to the residue.

Tins case-was brought up, by writ of errorfrom the Circuit
Court of the United States.for East Louisiana.
It involved a claim for upwards of two hundred thousand arpens
of land in Western Louisiana, commonly known as the Maison
Rouge claim, the history 6f which is this :
About the year 1795, a number of French royalists arrived in
'New Orleans, and amongst them the Marquis de Maison Rouge&, a
knight of St. Louis,who had beexi banished from France, and whose
property had been confiscated in the Revolution,
On the 1st of January, 1795, he obtained the following passport:
"TheBaron de Carondelet, knight of the religion of St. John, briadier of the royal armies, governor vice-patron of the provinces of
outsiana, West Florida, and inspector of the troops thereof, &c'., &c.
"It is hereby permitted Messrs. De Mason Rouge, De Breard,
and other persons of.their suite, to pass on to Ouachita, to examine
its position, and there to form a settlement. In consequence, Mr.
de Filhiol, will afford them every assistance, and die informatibn
necessary for that object.
"Given in our government-house, at New Orleans, this 1st day
of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-five.
"Signed,

THE: BARON DE CARONDELET,
ANDREw LOPEZ ARmESTO."

On the 17th of March, 1795, the following contract was entered
into :
3

T2

SUP9 EM

T4
-

-COURT.

The United States v. king et aL

We, Francis Lewis Hector, Baron de Carondelet knigl~t of
Malta, brigadier-general of the royal armies of his Catholic majesty,
military and-divil governbr of the provinces of. Louisiana and West
Florida; Don Francis Rendon, intendant of the- army and deputy
superintendent'of the roy9 domains in'the said provinces; Don Joseph.de Orue, knight of the royal and distinguished order of Charles
Third, piiicipal accountant for- the rbyal chests of this army," exercising the functions of fiscal of. the royal domains, declare, that we
agree bnd contract- with the 'Senior Marquis de Maison Rouge, an
emigrant French knight, who has arrived in this capital from: the
United States, to propose to us -to biring into these provinces thirty
fmilies, vho are also. emigrants, and who are to descend the OJio,.
for the purpose of forming an establishment with them on the lands
bordering upon the Washita, designed -principallyfor the culture 6f
vheat nd the erection of mills for manufacturing flour, under the
following conditions:
" 1. -We offer, in the name of his. Catholic majesty, whom God
preserve, to pay out of the royal treasury two hundred dollars to
every family composed of two -white persons fit for agricuture,. or
for the arts useful and necessary-for this establishment, as house or
ship-carpentdrs, blacksniiths and locksmiths, and four hundred dollars to those having'four labourers; and in the same way, one hundred to those having -no more than one useful labourer or artificer,
as before described, with his family.
"2. At the same time, we promise, under the auspices of our
soVereign monarch, to assist them forward fron New Madrid t
Wash ta, with a skilful guide, and the provisions necessary for them
till Their arrival at their place of destination.
1"3. The exenses of transportation of their baggage and implements -of labour which shil coime by sea to this capital shall be paid
on account of the' r6yal domains, and' they shall be taken on the
same account from this place to the Washita: provided, that the
weight shall not exceed three thousand.poimnds'for each family. *
"4.'There shall be granted t6 every family containing'two white
persons fit fdr agriculture ten arpens of -land, exteriding back forty
-arpens, and increasing in the same piopJortion to those which shall
coiitain a greater number of -white cultivators.
". Lastly, it shall be' permitted to the families 'to bring or to
cause to come with them European servants, who shall'bind themselves to their service for six or more years, under th express'condition that, if they have families, they shall have'a right, af'er their
term of service is expired, to receiye grants of land, proportioned in
the same manner to their numbers. Thus we promise, as we have
here stated, and that it may come to the knowledge of those families
which propose to transport themselves hither, we sign the present
contract with the aforesaid Senior Marquis de Maison Rouge, to

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

775

The United States v. King et aL

whom, that it may be made plain, a certified copy shall be fur-.
nished.

"Signed,

Thu SB..

(

DE. CAlONDELET.

FRANCIS RENDON.
JOSEPH DE. OuP.
THE MARQUIS DE MA.ISON ROUGE.

"J Cew Orleans, the'17t4 of March, 1795."
On the 14th of July, 1795, this contract was approved by the
king as follows:
"Having laid before the king what you have made known in
your letter of the 25th of April last, No. 44, relative to the contract
eteied into with the Marquis of Maison Rouge for the establishment on the Washita of thirty families of farmers, destined to cultivate'wheat for the supply of these provinces, his majesty, considering
the advantages which it promises, compared with the preceding, has •
been pleased to approve it in all its parts.
"By his'royal direction, I communicate it to you for your information., Go dpreserve you many years.
Signed,
*'
GARDoaonR.
"Madrid, 14th of July, 1795.
"The Intendant of Louisiana."
On the 12th of August, 1795, the folloving letter was addressed
to the Marquis de Maison Rouge:
"JVew Orleans, Jlugust i2, 1795.
Sm :--I have received the honour of your letter of the 25th June
last, with a statement of the families. Your perseverance, in the
opinion you have formed of the excellence of the lands you inhabit,
and which you are going to inake flourish for the happiness of this
province, as well as for those in its neighbo'rhood which ought to
partake of hese advantages, ought to animate you to make the
greatest efforts to effect its early accomplishmefit. The picture you
draw of these enchanted places convinces me of the solidity of your
judgmeibt, and of. the fortunate selection you have made in your
plan, as well as of the facility of means to carry it into execution in
all its branches.
V'I have paid.Mi. Merieult the $300 for Alexander Laurent, Peter Rel, and James F~ret.
"By this opportunity, I inform the commandant of what is to be
done when any-new family arrives-giving him distinctly to understand that, if the least formality or a certificate is wanting, and not
conformable to the copy which I send him, no payment whatever
will be made from the royal treasury.
"I have the honour t6 be,-with respect, sir, your very humble
and most obedient servant,
"1Signed,
FR icIsco Rmmox.
"Mr. De Maison Rouge."

776

SUPREME COURT.
Th.,q United States v. Ki'hg et a].

On the 26th of August,;1796, he foll6wing letter was written:
i Under this date, I have written to the commandant, John Filhiol,
as follows:
"Bcythe certificates which you sent ine in behalf of the individuals ho were brought here lately by the Chevalier Breard, I learn
that there-were among them many single, men, who cannot,' there£re, be' cofisidered as composing familids, and, consequently, they
ought not to have received the $100 stipulated in the 1st article of
the contract 'which the Marquis of Maison Rouge made with the
governor and' intendant of this province. On this occasion, we
- passed. overlhis irre.ularity in order -to avoid disputes in future, it
being inconsistent with the spirit of the contract, and of no use to.
the intereits of the kdng,-.to spend .the public money'on individuals
who, having'no inducements to remain in the country5 could leave
itwith the same facility they came. It must not .occur again: and
inform the Marquis that there are 'no funds in the public treasury
destined.to that object; and that, as soon as he. has completed the
number of thirty families which he contracted for, nothing will be
paid out -of the royal treasury to any who should eiceed that number, and who wish to come and- establish themselves in this district;
and you will consider yourself instructed to this effect, and conform
to it in future, advising me in conformity of vhat is done in the
premises. - I eonsider you as the agent, and authorized to act for
the Marquis of Maison Rouge, in the business of bringing famiilies
t6 that post, and, therefore, communicate this for your government.
The Lord preserve you many years.
and .formation.
"Signed,"
JUAN VENTURTA MORALES.
,To-Mr. Augustus de Breard. "
"JVew Oreans,.26th.ugt,1796."
On the 14th of June, 1797, it was alleged that Trudeau, the surveyor-general, issued the following certificate:'
"Figurative. plan of the thirty leagues of superfices of land granted.
to the Marquis of Maison Rouge, not including the lands held by
.
anterior titles.
"Don Carlos- Trudeau, surveyor-general and, particular 'of the
province of Louisiana.
"I certify in behalf of the Marquis of Maison Rouge, that the plats
of land represented and sketched in the foregoing plan of vermilion
colour, may contain thirty superficial leagues,'to wit: the' first plat
marked No. 1, on the right bank of the river Ouachita, commencing
or starting five arpens below the mouth 9f the bayou Cheniere.au
Tondre tilit reaches the bayou Calumet' with the depth necessary
to complete or produce one hundred and forty thousand superficial
arpens. The 2d plat marked No. 2, on the left baink of the, same
river Ouachita, to start or begin two leagues below-the Fort Miro it'

JANUARY-TERM, 1845.
The Unilted States v..King et'aL"
the point called Laine, till it reaches the prairie de Lee, with te
necessary depth to complete or produce sixty thousand arpens superficial. The third plat marked No. 3, to start in front 6f the
bayou de la Loutre, and from thence on a line running south sixtyfiVe degrees east to the bayou Siar, which line the bayou Siar and
bayou Barthelemy, and the Ouachita bound said plat No. 3 and the
plat No. 4, o4 the right 1,nk of the Ouachita, to start in front of
the entrance of bayou Barthelemy, running down the river till it
reaches the bayou la Loutfre; which plats Nos. 3 and-4. with the
corresponding or necessary depth, are to, complete eight thousand
three hundred ard forty-four superficial arpens, and, added to the
plats No. 1 and 2, form together the-superficial total of two hundred
and eight thousand .three hundred and'forty-four superficial arpens,
equal to the foregoing "thirty leagues, at the rate of two thousand
five hundred toises or fathoms per side for each league, which isthe
agrarian measure of thid province; it being well understood that the
lands included in the foregoing plats, which are- held by titles in
form, or by virtue of a fresh decree of commission, are not to compose a part of the foregoing thirty leagues; on the* contrary, the
Marquis of Maison Rouge promises not to injure any of the said
occupants, promising to maintain and suppbrt them inall their rights,
since, if it should happen that the said thirty leagues should suffer
any diminution of the land occupied, there will be no objection or
inconvenience to the said Marquis of Maison Rouge's completing or
making up the deficiency in any other place where there are vacant
lands, and to the satisfaction of the concerned.

"1And in order that it may'so appear or be made pAfnt, I give the
present, with the precedirig figurative plan, formed .or drawn by
order of the governor-general, the Baron de Carondelet, to which
faith is to be given this fourteenth of Ju~ne, one. thousand seien hundred and ninety-seven.
4' Signed,
"Noted in book A."

CAmeos TanuiAin .

On the 20th of June, 1797, the following grant was issued:
"The Baron de Carondelet, knight of the order of St. John, marshal
de camp of the royal armies, govemor-general, vice patron of
the provinces of Louisiana and West Florida, inspeitor of troops,

&C.

"Forasmuch as the Marquis de Maison Rouge is near completing
C
the establishment of the Washita, which he was authorized to make
for thirty families, by the royal order of July 14, 1795, and, desirous to remove, for the future, all doubt respecting other families or
new colonists who may come to establish themselves, we destine
and appropriate conclusively for the establishment of the aforesaid
Marquis de Maison Rouge, by virtue of -the powers granted tQ us
by the king,the thirty superficial lea*es marked in the plan annexed.

VOL.. If.,98

778

SUP

ME

COURT.

The United States v. King et al.

to the head of this instrument, with the limits and boundaries designated, with our approbation, by the surveyor-general Don Carlos Lareau Trudeau, under the terms and conditions stipulated and
contracted for by the said Marquis de Maison Rouge.
"And that it may at all times stand good, we give the present,
signed with our hand, sealed with our seal at arms, and countersigned by the underwritten honorary commissary of war and secretary of his majesty for this commandancy general.
"Signed,
Tan BARoN Dfl CARoND LET.
ANPRES LOPEZ AutrESTO.

NJ/ew Orleans, the 20th of June, 1797.
"NoT .- That, in conformity with his contract, the Marquis de
Maison Rouge is not to admit or establish any American -inthe
lands included in his grant.
TanE BARoN DE CARONnELET.")
"Signed,
In the latter part of the year 1799, Maison Rouge died, leaving a
will, which was dated, on the 26th of August, in that year. It was
as follows:
"First.-Recommending my soul to the same Lord God who gave
it to-me, and created and redeemed it at the price of his most precious
*blood, passion, and death, I implore hin by the niost holy bowels
of his divine mercy, that he will pardon it and send it to eternal'
rest among the chosen, for which it-was created.
"1My body I order to be placed in the earth, out of which it was,
made; and, when I die, I desire to be buried in the plainest manner, and that my funeral shall take place in such place as my executor, chooses, to whom I leave the management of the rest of my
funeral and interment, in order that he may act as to him appears
best-such being my will and pleasure.
11I also direct that three masses be said for the rest and repose of
my sou1, for each of which three bits or rials shall be paid once,
and to each of the donations into which my goods and effects are
divided.
1I also declare that I am a bachelor, that it may so be made manifest and certain. I also declare and make known that I possess
property in Paris, Berry, and Querry, which wa confiscated, of
which I possess no documents to establish my claim.
"I also declare that I possess, in Ouachita, a house and landi which
I give and bequeath to my 8ervant-maid, called Maria, an Irish woman-such being my wish and pleasure.
11I also declare that I owe some' small sums to my work people,
which I desire.to be paid from the present harvest.
" I also name as my executor and property holder Mr. Louis Boulipy, whom I empower and give authority to, after -my death, to
take possessiori of my goods and property, without the intervention

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

7.

The United States v. King et al.'

or interference of judicial proceedings'; to make inventories, valuations) and sales thereof; to appoint such appraisers'as he chboses,
and to adopt all necessary proceedings until my mortuary affairs are
concluded and wound up; for which pdrpose, I postpone and extend the year of executorship, and further tine which may be
necessary for that purpose; and such is my will and pleasure.
"I also declare that I have, at the house of Don Pedro, all the
articles necessary to build a saw-mill for cutting plank, and a pump
auger.
"I alsoy desire and declare that, in the donation which by this will
I make to -my servant-maid Maria of a house and land, there is only
included fi'e acres front-, by the usual depth, and the aforesaid
house, and not the rest, or other land; such being my will ancd
pleasure.
"1And the residue and-remainder of my go6ds, rights, and actions,
as well within as out of this province, in case my parents are dead,
I constitute and name, for my sole and universal heir, the aforesaid
Louis Bouligny, in order that, after, my decease, he may have and
inherit them, with the blessing of God and myself; and such is my
will and pleasure.
"I revoke and ahnul, and declare void, cancelled, of no value nor
effect whatever, any other wills and testamentary dispositions I may
have heretofore made by word, or in writing, which I desire no'
faith qr value shall be attached tol saving and excepting this, which
I at present authorize and declare in such manner and form as may
stand good and right.
"In faith of which, this -nstrument is dated in the city of New
Orfeans' the 26th of August, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-nine.
"I, the notary5 give faith to and know the declarer, who, to appearance, posesses his natural judgment, memory, and understand,ing, and signed it in the presence of Don Andres Lopez de Armesto,
honorary commissary of war and secretary of this government, Dh.
Pedro Gondillo, and Dn. Vizente Texeiro Lientard, inhabitants.
DE, MAIsONr ROUGE."
In 1802, Bouligny went upon the ground and caused a survey
to be made by McLaughlin, who had been a deputy-surVeyor under
Trudeau.
In 1803,Daniel Clarke applied for and obtainedfrom the intendantgeneral of New Orleans -copies of tile contract with Maison Rouge,
and of the order of the 14th J-fily, 1795.
Congress having passed an act for the purpose of ascertaining
the rights of*persons to land within the district and' territory of
Orleans, the commissioners appointed under that act rported upon
Bouligny's claim as follows.

7 0

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et al

"Claims to land in the county of Washia.
Reported

Register's
io.

By
whom
claimed

Quantity Nature and date Class.
claimed.
ftitle or claim.

proOriginal
prietor or
claimant.

a

-

16

ai

11

-

I n et Idt!
U titl

LouisBou- Marquis &e 30 square Spanish grant,
20th June,
MaisonRouge. leagues.
ligny.

B.

1797.

Class B, in which- the claim was placed by the commissioners,
is thus described by them.
To.the second class, comprising "claims which, though not embraced-by the provisions of the said acts, ought nevertheless -in the
opinion of the commissioners, to be confirmed in conformity with
the laws, usages, and customs of'the Spanish government," the
letter B will be affixed.
-By an act of 'the 29-h April, 1816, the claims. marked B were
confirmed: "provided, nevertheless, that under no one claim shall
any person or persons be entitled under 'this act to more than the
quantity contained in'a league square..
In 1841, the defendant Coxe, who had hecome owner of this
inly
a league square, which were accordforunder
patents
applied
claim,given
him,
thefor
circumstances
stated in the opinion of the
late Mr. Attorney-GeneraILegar, under date of22d December, 1841.
On the 13th of February, 1843, the, United States, by Bailie
Peyton, their attorney, filed. a petition in -the Circuit Court of the
United States, stating that Richard King had* taken possession of,
and clairhed title to, a part of the land. The petition prayed that
the land might be adjudged to belong to the United States, &c. &c.
King answered and called Coxe in war.ranty,.who also answered
and set forth his title in extenso under the grant to.Maisou Rouge.
On the 10th of July, 1843, the court, after argument, pronounced
the following decree:
. "!The court having maturely considered the law and the evidence
in this case, doth now order, adjudge and decree, that the plaintiff's
petition be dismissed, and that the grant made by the Baron de
Carondelet, as the governor of Louisiana, on the 20th June, 1797,
to the Marquis de Maison Rouge, be and the saine is hereby declared valid; that the said Richard King, the defendant, and the
said.Daniel bW. Coxe, warrantor, be and they are hereby declared
and recognised to be 'the lawful owners of the parts of the said grant
hold by them, as described in the answer of the said Richard King,

JANUARY TERM; 1845.

7?1

The United States v. King et al.

and in the schedule IA,' and- that they. be quieted in the ownership and possession of the same.
TaEo. H. McCALrEna, U. S. Judge." ,
"Signed,
In the course of the trial, the United States filed five, and'the deThe following were assigned as
fendants three bills of exceptions.States.
erors on the part of the United
1. That in the matters stated in the several bills of exception,
not necessary here to be re-stated,'the court below committed error.
2, *That the evidence in the cause 'does- not sustain the claim bf
title of the defendants to the lands in controversy.
3. That the acceptance by the defendant Daniel W. Coxe, of a
patent for oie league square of said ; - d, under the act of Congress
of the 29th April, 1816, operates as an.extinguishment of his title
to any other portion of said land.
'The evidence referred to in the second" point of error was very
voluminous. It consisted of a number of letters written by the
Baron de Carondelet, by the Marquis de Maison Rouge, and by
others, and of the deposition of sundry persons; all of which it is
impossible to insert at length or to compress within a reagonable
compass.

Jelson, (attorney-general,) for the United States.
Coxe, for the defendants.
N.lelson, after referring to arid explaining the papers above cited,

laid down four propositions which'he proposed to maintain.

1. That the paper relied.upon by the defendants is not a grant.
2. That assuming it to be so; it was to tale - effect upon conditions.which were not complied with.
3. That the paper 'purporting to be a survey by Trudeau. is-a
forgery, and covers land n6t tovered by the grant.
4. That the grant is void from indefiniteness, and cannot be located. (As the decision. of the court turns upon one of these points
only, it is deemed unnecessary to report the arguments of the respeco
tive counsel upon the other points.)
3. That the paper purporting to be a survey, is a forgery; an&,
apart from that paper, the grant'contains no description.
It is remarkable that no one ever, saw this survey, although professing to have been made. in 1797, until 1803. It was not'appended to the grant. In 1802 there was a grant by Trudeau to
Filhiol, of lind below Fort Miro, and yet the survey, made in 1797,
calls for Filhiol's line, which was not established until 1802.
Moreover, this grant to Filhiol says.that his land is bounded on
every side by vacant lands, and yet if the former survey were genuine, Filhiol's grant was in the midst of the land w-hich 'had been
granted to Maison Rouge.
(Mr. V'elson then examined minutely the t~stimofiy of various
3U

782

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. -King et al.

persons; of Mr. Filtiol1 the commandant of the post of Washita,
om 1783 to 1800; of the widow Bayergeon, of Mr. Pomier, a
settler under the ontract; of Mr. De]in ; of Mr. McLaughlin, who
said that -Trudeau. was never on the spot, and never had. any other
deputy-surveyor-than himself.)
In 1802, Bouligny went out to the spot and had a plat made by
McLaughlin, who "aysi that -the "plat dated 14th Junei 1797, is
copied"- from the one which he made in 1802.
Coxe, for defendants, gave a history of the case, and referred to
various state papers: Report of a Committee, Senate U. S., July
20, 1842; Instructions of Solicit6r of the -Treasury, December 23,
1842; 2 American Stite Papers, June 9, 1813; "Land Laivs, 744,
745, 3 Greene's Public Lands, 247. In 1 Laws U. S., Brown's edition, 549 this title is set 6ut just as
it is in the present Yecord.
In 2 Land Laws, (American State Papers,) 771, 774, there is a
copy ofthe very plat which

-e

have,

It is objected that no.one ever saw Tfindeapus certificate of survey until 1803. At the fobt of the grant, in Spanish, which is in
the records,-re these words: "Anotado en el libro A, No. 1,-vergo
38, ye6pia sicaaa." "
What became of the book A' we do not know.
In American State Papers, Public Lands, vol. 2, page 774, there
is a translation of Trudeau's cerfifcate of survey,' with the following
remark
."and-oflce, Opelousa, .Aug. 15, 1812.
"The foregoing is the substance of the proc~s verbal, (certificate,) of the sur-eyor-general;- subjoined to the plat; (of which the
annexed is a copy,) filed in the claim of Louis Bouligny, holding
under Maison Rouge.
S. CHA CmE, Translator to the Commissioners.
L.- PosEyY,-Cle k of the)Board."
If theie is any defect. in the re~ord, the governmen't must bear the
consequences, for all-the Spanish books were handed over to thepublic authorities. It is the first time that this paper was ever denounced as a forgery. The grant itself, says, "Marked in the plan
annexed," showing that, sometplan wis annexed to it. The.evidence of Tessier verifies it. He was a principal clerk in the office
for making grants of- land under the Spanish government, and this
grant is in his handwriting. He says he'" camnaot recollect whether
he had or had not, Trudeauis figurative plan and- procks verbal before him, bit he is certain that he performed, his duty, either by
dictation or written instructions of his sti eriors, or by- eeing the
document B, though he canpot say in whict of the three respective
modeshe'acted upon this occasion."

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

783

The United States v. King et aL

The decision of the board 'of commissioners is final against the
United States. In the case of McDonald v. Millaudon, decided at
this term, the court say that a complete grant requires no confirmation by Congress. The limit to a league square in the confirmatory
act does not hegative the residue of the title,; there are no words to
that effect. The proviso was put in because it was thought that
SpaniSh governors could not grant riore than a league square.
This court entertained the same doubt.- 4 Peters, 511._"
Congress could not, annul the title to the land beyond a league
square, because ifrested on a treaty. The act does not profess to
annul it, but leaves it where it found it, subject to judicial decision.
This construction of the'act reconciles it with justice and good faith,
and these copsiderations were held to be opera ive'in 2 Wheat. 203,
6 Peters, 718. The United-States never claimed what was severed
from the public domain. Our title, therefore, is equal to a patent,
and can oilly be assailed on the ground of fraud. 'This is a charge
which is easily made. It is not pretended that afiy was practised
on Carondelet, nor is the signature of Trudeau denied, but it is
said to be ante-dated. The United States -knew all about these
papers, but the petition in this case does not allege fraud. It is
true that the defendants are said to have no title. But suppose we
were in chancery, would-the court permit a party to, raise such a
question upon the:trial if it was not alleged in the'bill ? It ought
to have been put in issue and, evidence taken upqn: it, and in that
case the onus probandi would have been upon the United States.
By the treaty theybecame, possessed of all.vacant domain, and must
make out their title. It will not do' to claim all and make' the defendant show his title. 9 Petets, 298"; 2 Burchards Land Laws; 669.
The fraud here is charged -upon high functionaries of. a foreign,
government forty-eight years ago.' Fraud, for what-purpose? There
was no motive for it. Carondelet might have made the grant if he
chose;' he had 'the power to do it., Both these papers were before
Congress in 1820, and the defendant met the accusations which
were then brought against them. The United States have never
attempted to 'rescind this pateiit fo'r-twenty years. If'they were a
private person, they would -beb6und by their acts.- The accusation
of fraud now made by-the attorney-general'rests on two grounds:
1. A pamphlet published by Giraud.
2. On evidence taken in another suit.
With regard to the pamphlet, it has been answered in the same
way. With regard. to the other, the vidence' was taken under a
notice served by a hostile party before another hostile party, all on
the same day, 'aid the suit then not prosecuted.
(Mr. Coxe then examinedlhis testimony.)
Nelson, in reply'and conclusion.
This is a mere question of title, to be settled on principles of law.

784

SUPREME COURT.
The United- States-v. "King-et al.

The defendant claims under 'a grant from the Spanish g6vernment.
The treaty gave the public domain to the United States. Thiere is
no contest about their title, if the land had not previously been
granted by Spain. We concede fre6y that the United States only
succeeded to the rights ot Spain, aiid that all grants, perfect or imperfect, are binding. If the iightswerIe imperfect, the United States
are bound in equity to. carry them out ; but. -not this branch of the
government, which can look only at the legal title. Is this such?
I But first let us examine a pioposition laid down by the other side,
that this claim has been recognised by all the departments of thegovernment.. If so, the United States must be estopped. If Congress has conferred a titleon the representatives of Maison Rouge,
there is an. end of the question. So, if the judiciayy has recognised.
it. :But no misapprehension. of the executive on such a subject is
binding on this court.
(Mr. Nelson here examined the papers and documents 'cited by
Mr. Coxe.)
The laws requiring commissioners -to report to Congress, cannot
be -construed as erecting them into a judicial tribunal whose decisions should be final.
-The alleged legislative confirmation~is equally defective.
(Mr. N€elson here referred to 2 Story, 1410, 1429.)
The executive department of the government hgs always resisted
this"claim from 1804. 'It-offered the lands for sale, but withdrew
them on account of the dispute. Asurveyhad tobe made to ascertain what was-unclaimed. '
There has been no regulation by any branch of the government,
but the question is entirely open for this court."
It is said that no fraud was alleged in the court below. That is
very trie. But it w o'fld have been odd, ifthe United States, when
instituting
a proceeding similar to an ej~ctment; had g
on in
their
declaration
to say that the title of.the defendant was fraudulent.
Spanish
It is also
•
authorities.
said that we
haveis no
rightthey
to
the action of the
This
true,
if supervise
are.bona'fide, but not if.
they are fraudulent. Congress has always provided, in its laws, for
cases
of fraut.
had gone
away. The fraud was concacted n 1802, after Carondelet
It
is
true
great part into
of the
wasand
tairen
'another
case; but it that
was aintroduced
this testimony
by consent,
the in
defendant
must abide by it.
-Mr. Chief Justice TAhEY delivered the opinion of the court..
This case is one of great importance, from the amount of property
in dispute; and if the court entertained any doubt upon the questions
of law or of fact which are presened by the record, we should regard it as our duty t
eold
it under advisement, and postpone the
decision to another tern. But the principles of law upon which it

-

'JANUARY TERM, 1845.

785

The Unite-dStates v. King et a].

depends are not fiew in this court, and have oftenbeen the subjects
of discussion and consideration sincethe cession 6f Louisiana and
Florida to the United States. And having, after a careful examination of the evidence, formed a decided opinion upon the facts in the
case, we deem it proper to-dispose of it without further delay.
The claim in question, arises upon two instruments of writing,
executed by the Baron de Carondelet, civil governor of Louisiana;
one in 1795, and' the other in 1'797; the latter of which is alleged,
by the defendant in error, to be a grant to the Marquis de Maison
Rouge, for the land included in a piat -made out by Trudeau, the
surveyor-general of the,pruvince, and dated the 14th of June, 1797,
and which survey embraces the land in controversy.. It is insisted,
on the part of fhe United States, that this certificate of Trudeau is
antedated and fraudulent; and in order to determine the state of the
facts upon which the questions of law will arise, the authenticity of
this survey will be the first subject ofjinquiry.
Upon this point, a good deal of testimony.has Deen taken upon
both sides. But it would extend this opinion to an unreasonable
and unnecessary length, to enter upon a minute comparison and
-analysis of the testimony of the different witnesses, and of the other
evilehe contained in the record. It is sufficient to say, that,. after
an attentive scrutiny and collation of the'whole testim6ny, we think
it is perfectly clear that this certificate of Trudeau is*ahtedated and
fraudulent, and ive refer to the evidence of Filhiol, McLaughlin,
and Pomier- as establishing conclusively that the actual Survey upon
which this certificate was made out, did not take place until December, 1802, and 'January, 1803; and that the one referred to by the
governor,lin the paper of 1797, was for land in a different place,
and higher up the Washita river. We are entirely convinced that
the survey now produced was not made in the lifetime of the Marquis de Maison Rouge, who died in'1799, but aftel his death, and
at.the instance of Louis Bouligny, who, according to the laws of
Louisiana, was what is there termed the forced heir of the marquis;
and that it was made in anticipation and expectation.of Ae cession
of the country to the United States;. the negotiations upon that subject being then actually pending, aid the treaty of cession, signed
on the 30th-day of April, 1803. We see no reason to doubt the
truth of the witnesses to whom we have referred. On the contrary,
they are supported. by the testimony of other witnesseg, and by various circumstances detailed in the record.
It has, however, been argued that, inasmuch as an attested copy
of this certificate, with the two instruments executed by-the Baron
de Carondelet, were delivered to Daniel Clarke, in August, 1803,
by the Spanish authorities~at New Orleans, upon his application for
the documentary proofs of the title to 'this land, the authenticity of
the paper in question ought not to be impeached; .and that it is inconsistent with the comity due to--the officers of a foreign govern3 U2
VOL. flI.-99'

786

'SUPREME.COURT.
The United States v. Kiig et aL

ment, to impute to them-fraud, or connivarce in aofraud, in an official
act where 'their conduct has not. been, questioned by the authority
under which they were acting, and to which they were responsible.
ThIs proposition is undoubtedly true, where no other interest is concerned except that of their own government or-its citizens. And as
regards the interest of others, the acts of the officer, in the line of his
duty, will jprimafacie-be considered as performed honestly, and in
good faith.' And although this certificate and the other documents
were delivered to Clarke after the country had been ceded to the
United States, yet as possession had not been taken, and the evidences of titles to lands in the ceded province were still lawfully -in
the hands of the Spanish authorities, the documents upon that stiub
jest, obtained from the proper officer,- ought tb be regardedas genuine, unless impeached by other testimony;. and to that extent this
court is bound.to respect the certificate in question. But it would
be pusbing the comity usually extended to the tribunals and officers
of a foreign government,-eyond the bounds-of justice and the usages
of nations, to claim for theim a total exemption froni inquiry, when
their acts affect the rights of another nation or its citizens. Certainly, the political department of this govemment has never acknowledged this immunity from inquiry, now claimed for the Spanish tribunals' and officers; and'ir -every law establishing American tribunals to examine into the validity of titles to laid itt Louisiana and
Florida, derived from the government of Spain, they are expressly
enjoined to inquire whether the -documents produced in stipport of
the claim are antedated or-fraudulent;, nd we have wndoubt that
it is the right of this court to'hear and determine -whetherthe certificate of Trudeau, although recognised and sanctioned by-the colonial
authorities of Spain, is ahtedated and made .out either with or without their privity and consent, in order to defraud the United States,
and to deprive them- of lands -which rightfully belonged to them ui-.
der the treaty; and that it-is our duty to -deal with it as the evidence
may require. We desire,-however, to be understood, .when.spieaking upon this subject, as' not intending to charge the present claimants with having participated. in the fraud; but from the testimony
in the record,. we are fully convinced that it was committed in the
.manner hereinbefore mentioned, by Bouligny, under whom .they
claim title.
Regarding the case in this point of view, the right of the. defendant in error must stand altogether upon the instruments executed in
1795 and 1797, by the Baron de Carondelet; and it has rnot the aid
of any authentic survey, to ascertain and fix the limits of the land,
and to determine its location. The instruments themselves contain
no lines or boundaries, whereby any definite and specific.parcel of
land was severedfrom the public domain;- and it has been settled,
by ripeated.decisions in this court, and in cases, too, where the instrument contained clear words of grant, tha.k if the *description was

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

787

The United States v. King er- al.

vague and indefinite, as in the case before us, and there was no offidial survey to give it a certain location, itcould create no right of
private property in any particular parcel of-'land, which. could be
maintained in a court of justice, It was so held in the cases reported in 15 Peters, 184, 215, 275, 319, and in 16 Peters, 159) 160.
After such repeated decisions upon the subject, all affirming the same
doctrine, the question cannot be considered as an open one in'this
court. Putting aside, therefore, and rejecting the certificate of Trudeau, for the reasons before stated, the instruments -in question, even
if-they could be contrued as grants, conveyed no title to 4he Marquis de Maison Rouge for the lanad in question, and, consequently,.
the defendants in error can derive none from him. The land claimed
was not severed from the public domain, by the Spanish authorities,
and set apart as private property, and, consequently, it passed to the
United States, by the treaty which ceded to them all the public and
unappropriated lands. It is unnecessary, therefore, for the decision
of the case, to say any thing in relation to the construction and efTect
of these two instiuments, or the*purposes for which they were 'itended.
As relates to the claim of an equitable titfle arising from the number'
of immigrants' alleged. tohave been introduced, under these instruments,'it would n'ot avail the defendant in'error in this action, even
if the proofs showed a performance. equal to that contended for on
his part. For if these instruments *ere regarded as grants; and it'
appeared that the.Marqpis de Maison Rouge had originally selected
this verl district as the place where-the grant was intended t6 be
located; and the immnigrants introduced by him.liad been settled
upon it in performance of the conditiopg of his contract; and if it
should be held that he hadc thereby acquired an equitable right to
have the quantity of land mentioned in the paper of 1797 laid off to
him at this place, still it would -be no defence against the United
States. For in the case of Choteau v. Eckhart, 2 How. 375, this court
decided that an imperfect title derived from Spain, before the cession,
would not be supported against a party claiming under a grant from
the United States, unless it had been confirmed by act of Congress.
The same point was again' fully considered and decided, at'the Present term, in the case of Hickey and othe's v. Stewart and others.
These deciions stand upon the ground that such titles are not con.
firmed by the treaty itself so as to bring them within judicial cognisance and authority: and that'it rests with the politidal department
of the governmerat to determine how and by what tribunals justice.
should be done to persons claiming such rights. If, therefore, this
controversy was in a court of eqmty, and' no suspicion of fraud
rested upon the claim, yet it could not be supported against a grantee
of the United States, because Congress has not confirmed it,.nor
authorized any other tribunal to determine upon its validity. This
case, however, is in a court of law; the petitory action brought by

788

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. King et aL

the United States in the Circuit Court -of Louisiana, being in the
nature of an action of ejectment in which the decision must depend
on the legal title; and that title under the treaty of cession being in
the United States, an equitable title, if the defendant in error could
show one, would-be no defence.
It has indeed lieen urged in the'argument, that the act of April
29, 1816, sect. 1, (3 Story's Laws, 1604,) confirmed this grant to
the claimants to its whole extent. Upon this point we do not think
it necessary to go into a particular and minute examination of the
acts of Congress upon this subject, nor indeed of the act referred to.
Because the provision in this act, that the confirmation shall extend
only to the quantity of land contained in a league square, is in the
judgment of the court too clear and unambiguous to admit of serious
controversy. The restriction of the confirmation to the quantity
above mentioned,' appears to be as plainly stated in the proviso as
language could make it; and Congress certainly, in a claim of this
description, addressing itself to the political power,.had a right to
confirm a portion of the claim, and, at the same, time, to refuse to
give the claimant a title to the residue, if they supposed it just to
d so.
Another question of more difficulty arises under this act of Congress, but as it has not been pressed in the argument,- we forbear to
express an opinion upon it. It appears that the claiihant has accepted
a patent for a league square. In similar cases in Florida, the act of
Congress upon that subject provided, that the-patent for the quantity
confirmed should not issue unless the claimant released all title to
the residue. The law in relation to the land- in question does not,
it is true, require this release, and the patent was issued and accepted
under an understanding -with the commissioner of the General Landoffice, that the acceptance should not prejudice the claim to the residue. Yet it is a question worthy of serious consideration, how far
the acceptance of the land proffered by Congress, even under these
circumstances, must affect any title to the residue, which the party
might be supposed to have had, and ought to influence the judgment of the court where the fact appears in the record. It is unnecessary, however, to pursue the inquiry, since, for the reasons before
stated, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed.

