SUPREME COURT.

WMLIAN,"'F. CARY AND SAMUEL T.

CARY, PLAInrWFs, t,

EDWARD

CURTIS.
Since the passage of the act of Congress of'March 3d, 1839, chap. 82, sect. 2,
which requires collectors of the.oGitoms to place to the credit of the treasurer
of the United States all money which they receive for unascertained~utits or
for duties paid under protest, an action of assumpsit for money'liad and received will not lie against the collector for the return of such duties so sreceived by him.
In what other modes the claimant can have access to the courts of justice, this
court is not-called upon'in this case to decide.

Tins case came up from the Circuit Court of the Umted States
for 'the southern district of New York, ofi a certificate of division in
opinion between the judges thereof.
The action was brought in the Circuit Court to recover money
paid to Curtis, as collector of the port of New York, for duties.
The declaration contained the common money counts, and the defendant pleaded the generbl issu, 'The cause was tried at November term, 1842.
The jury found for 'the plaintiffs, subject to the ophulion of the
court, among other thinmg,
1. That the plaintiffs paid ti.6 um -of$181 75 to the defendants,
on the 3d July, 1841, for duties -on the goods imported as being
raw silk.
2. That the goods onwhich the duties were demanded and paid,
were not raw silk, but a manufactrei article.
3. That the money so paid.wat under a written protest, made at
the time of payment.
4. That the money had been paid.,jlto the Treasury by the defendant, iT the month of July, 1841, 'and before the commencement
of this suit.
Upon the argument of this cause,.ifter verdict, several questions
arose; among others, the following,' v"iz
Whether or not the 2d'section of,the act of Congress,.approved
l'
An act making appropriaon the 3d day of March,- 1839, entitlk
tions for the civil and diplomatic exIp.enses'of':govemment for the
year 1839," was a bar-to the action?
On this question the opinions of -the judges were opposed.
Whereupon, on motion of the plaintiffs*by their counsel, it -was*
ordered, that the foregoing state of the pleadings and facts, which
i made under the .irection of the judges$be certified under the seal
of this courti according to the statute in .suchli case made and provided, to the Supreme Court of the United States,'to the end, that
the question on which thi said disagreement has happened may be
finally decided.
. The cause was argued (in writing) by Sullivan, for the plainfifls
in error, and .Nelson, attorney-general, for .the defendant.

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

237

Cary v. Curtis.

Sulivan, for plaintiffs.
This cause comes before the court on a certificate of a division
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district.
of New York.
The plaintiffs, as importers, had a perfect right to have and maintain this action against the defendant upon the facts as'-found in this
cause. Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137.
The 2d section referred to in the certificate of division (9 Laws
U. S. 1012) does not take away this right of action.
Because this right existed at common law, and the statute does
not express a'clear intent to do so. Bac, Abr. tit. Statute; 19 Yin.
Abr. 524, sect. 125.
Because this right is not taken from the importer by necessary implication; but, on the contrary, the prospective languadge of this section shows, that Congress contemplated that actions against collectors would and should be brought in future, and sustained, as they
had been in all cases of illegal exaction of duties, if paid under sufficient.protest. This section provides, that moiiey paid to a collector under protest shall not be held by him to await the result of any
litigation in relation to the rate or amount of duty legally chargeable.
This is all prospective, and relates to suits which may be brought in.
future; for there is not a word that limits the effect of the provision
in this section to the past or preserit, but words in the future
tense only are used. The section commences with the words,
"1From and.after the passage of this act,"and refers only to money
thereafter to' be received by collectors. The whole tenor of the section imports an intent not to take away the right of litigation for
money paid under protest. But if it be urged, that the delegation
of a new power to the secretahy of the'Treasury t take cognisance
of such claims for repayment of duties illegally exacted, imports, by.,
necessary implication, that Congress intended to vest in him exclUsively the right of ascertaining the facts in such cases, and of d-cidng the law thereon, the p.laintiffs respectfully ask the court to consider in what wid
erent language such an intent must needs
have been expressed. There musthave been an express prospective
ptovision of some mode of proving the facts of each case, consistent
with thei
constitutional guaranty of the right of trial by jury; for up
to the passing of the act in question, the law had, by necessary implication, and by the known course of judicial proceedings in such
cases, recognised this right as the right of all importers paying such
duties under protest'and the means- of an ulterioi'decision of all
questions of law other than the opinion of the secretary would have
been provided; whereas this Jaw, by authorizing the secretary to repay such. illegally exacted diiti when he should be satisfied they
ought.to be repaid, has left open to importers their knowA and constitutional right 'of recourse to the tribunals of law when he should
not be satisfied; so that the true construction of the provision givin

238

SUPREME COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

him such a power may be carried into full effect, to the utmost inferrible intention from the terms of this section, quite consistently with
leaving to all importers their remedy at law, as well as the privilege
of applying to the secretary at their option. Because the purpose of this section appears to he two-fold to wit:
the'security of public moneys received for duties under protest,
and. the repayment of them by the secretary in all cases where he
may be satisfied they bught io'be repaid, without touching; varying,
or altering, in any manner, the right of action by importers against
the collector.
Be-cause the collectors have always been required by law to pay
over all 'moneys, without reference to protests. See "1An act to
regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage," Acts of
5t Congress, chap. 128, sect. 21, (3 Laws U. S. 357,) which provides, inter alia, that the, " collector shall at all times pay to the
order of the officer who shall be authorized to direct the payment
thereof, the whole of the moneys which they may .respectively receive by virtue of this act; (such moneys as they are otherwise by this
,act directed to pay, only excepted ;)" and it is by virtue, in part,
of this very act that the collector demanded and received the money
paid in this case.
The money. being withdrawn from the collector's hands by law,
it would seem unjust that he should be exposed to a judgment and
execution thereon ; but this section provides that it shall be the duty
of the secretary to refund, and thus the collector is indemnified,
which is equivalent to a right of retaining money paid under protest,
as laid down in the case of Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 154,
where the court.speak of the collector's protecting himself by retaining the money or claiming an indemnity; but if not strictly an
indemnity, and it should be found in practice that the collector was
not re-imbuirsed, he would refrain from exacting duties in doubtful
cases until he had the sanction of the secretary, and his assurance
that the money should'be repaid upon the recovery of a judgment
at layi. ' And this court held, in the case of Tracy and Balestier v.
Swartwout, 10 Peters, 98, 99, that the personal inconvenience to
the collector is not to be considered.
The collector is liable for money illegally exacted and paid under
protest, although the same may have been turned over to the government under the requirements of the acts of Congress.
In the case of Townson v. Wilson and others, 1 'Campb. 396,
Lord Ellenborough says, "if any person gets money into his hands
illegally, he cannot discharge himself by paying it over to another ;"
and this opinion is entitled to more consideration than nisi nitus
decisions usually are, becanse Lord Ellenborough states, that he had
consultedthe other judges, and that they agreed with-him.
In te 'case of Sadler v. Evans, or Lady Windsor's case, 4 Burr.
1986, it is held, that where notice is given,the agent may and ought

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

239

Cary v. Curtis.

to be sued, and cannot exonerate himself by payment. This case
is cited and approved in Elliott v. Swartwout.
In the Commentaries of his Honour Judge Story, on Agency,-p.
311, § 307, it is laid down, that "1where money is obtained 'from
third persons, by public officers, illegally, but under colour of office,
it may be recovered back again from them if notice has been given
by the party,- at the time, to the officer, although the inohey has
been paid oar'to the overnment." In the case of Ellibtt v. Swart.
wout, 10 Peters, 68,-it is held, that "1where money is, illegally demanded and received by an agent, he cannot exonerate himself
from personal responsibility by paying it over to his principal;" and
in the case of Bend v. Hoyt, 13 Peters, 267, itis held, that "there
is no doubt the collector is generally liable in an action to recover
back an. excess of duties paid to him, as collector, where the duties
have been illegally demanded, and a protest of the illegality has
been made at the time of payment, or notice tben given that the
party means to contest the claim, whether he has paid-over the
money to the government or not."
If it be objected that-the payments here referred to are voluntary,
the answer is, that it is evident that the contrary is the fact. If the
cases and the remarks in the Commentaries above referred to had
been made concerning an ordinary agent, there might be ground for
such an objection; but a collector is the defendant in each case, and
government officers are specially reffirred to' in the. Commentaries,
and if there had been any distinction between the kinds of payments,
that distinction would have been referred to, for it was well known
to the court, that collectors and other government officers were then
compelled by law to pay-over all money received by them; and, as
has been previouply shown, the section in question is no more compulsory than the laws in force at he time 6f those decisions, and,
at follows, that they are controlling and decisive in this case.
The case of Greenway v. Hurd, 4 Term Rep. 553, 554, does
not apply, because it appears to have been a voluntary payment, and
is so decided to be in Efiott.v. Swartwout.
[Of Mr. .Nelson's argument in reply the reporter has no notes.]Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
In order to arrive at the answer which should be gven to the
question certified upon this record, the objects first to be sought for
are the intention and meaning of Congress in the enactment of the
2d section of the act of March 3d,' 1839, under which the question
sent here has been raised. The positive language of the statute, it
is true, must control every other\rule of interpretation, yet even
this may be better understood by recurrence to the known public
practice as to matters in pari materia, and by the rules of law as
previously expounded by the courts, and as applied to and as ha *
influenced that practice. The law as laid dowiriy this court wi

WD

SUPREME COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

respect to collectors of the revenue, in the case of Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137, and'again incidentally in the case of Bend v.
Hoyt, 13 Peters, 263, is precisely that which is applicable to agents
in private transactions between man and man, viz. .thata voluntary
payment to an agent without'notice of objection will not subject the
agent who shall have paid over to his principal;- but that payment
with notice, or-with a protest against the legality of the demand,
may create a liability on the part of. the agent who hall pay over to
his principal in despite of such notice or protest. Such was the
law as announced from this court, and Congress must be presumed
to have be-en cognisant of its existence; 6nd.as the peculiar power
ordained by the Constitution to prescribe rules of right and of
action for all officers as -well as others falling ithin the legitimate
scope of federal legislation, they, must be sup osed to have been
equally cognisant of the effects and tendencies of this court's decisions upon the collection of the public revenue. With this .knowledge necessarily presumed-foi them,; Congess enact the 2d'section
of the act of .1839. It should not be overooked, for it is very material in seeking for the, -views of Congress in this enactment, that'
the court, in the case of-Elliott v: Swartwout,.in its reasoning upon
the .second point submitted to -them,'say, that the claimant by giving
i tice to, the' collector would C!put him on his-guard," by requiring
him: not to payover. the money. They farther say, that the collector
would, by the same means; be placed, in a situation to claim an indemnity. The precise mode in which this protection" of the ollector was to be accomplished, -or his.indemnity secured, it is true, the
court have not'explicitly declared; but it is thought to be no forced
con r iflion of their language to explain it as sanctioning a right of
retainer in the collector of the funds received by him for the governmenf; for what shield so. effectifal could he interpose between himself and the cost and-hazards of fr'quent litigation? -Indeed,*this
.wuld'appear, according tb the opinion"of the court, that very pro-'
tection- whi&h justice and necessity would equally, warrant.- In
prictic6, this rftainer has, with oi without warrant, bpen resorted to.
And now letus look to .the language of -the act of 1839, chp.
82, § 2. "That from and after the passage -ofthis act, all money
*paid to"any-ollector of Je customs, or to any person acting assuclh,
for unasce.rtained duties, or for duties l&aid under protest againist the
rdte or amount 6. duties charged, shall be placed to the credit of
'the treasurer of tie.United States, kept and disposed of as all other
money-paid for duties i§ required -by law, or by'regulation of the
'Treasury Depirfment. to be placed to the credit of the treasurer, kept
-and disposed of; and it shall'not be held-by said collector or person
acting'as su&ch, to await ar y. ascertainment -of dutiesf or -the iesult
of any litigation in relation to the rate or amount, of duty legally
chargeable and collectable in any case where money-is so paid: but
whenever it shall be shown to the satisfaction of the'secretary of the

JANUARY TERM, 1845.
Cary v. Curtis.

241

Treasury, that in any case of unascertained duties, or duties paid
under protest, more money has been paid to the collector, or to the
person acting as such, than the law-requires should have been paid,
it shall be his duty to draw his warrant upon the treasurer in favour
of the person or persons-entitled to the over-payment, directing the
said treasurer to refund the same out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated." What is the plaif and obvious import of this pro ion, taking it independebtly and as a-whole? It
is that all moneys thereafter paid to any collector for unascertained
duties, ot duties paid unde protest, (i. e. with notice of objection
by the payer,) shall, notwithstanding such notice, be placed to the
credit of- the treasurer, kept and disposed of as all other raoney paid
for auties is required by law to be kept and disposed'of; that is,
they shall be paid over by the collector, received by the treasurer,
anddisbursed by him in conforniity with appropriatiois by law, precisely as if no notice or protest had been given or made; and shall
not be retained by the collector (and consequently not withdrawnfrom the uses of the government) to await any ascertainment of
duties, or the result of any litigtion relative to the rate or amount
of duties, in any case in which nioney is so paid.
This section of the act of Cohgress, considered independently
and as apart from the facts aid circunistances which are known to
have preceded it, and may fairly be supposed to have induced its
enactment, must be understbod as leaving with the collector no lien
upon, or discretion over, the sums received by him on account of
the duties described therein; but as converting him into 'the mere
bearer of those sums to the Treasury of the United States, through.
the presiding officer of-which department they were to be disposed
of in conforrmity with- the law. Looking then to the immediate
operation of this section upon the conclusions either directly announced or as implied in the decision of Elliott v. Swartwout, how
are those conclusions affected by it? They must be influenced by
consequences like the following: That, whereas by the decision
above mentioned'it is assumed that by notice to the collector, or by
protest againsf payment, a pergonal" liability for the duties actually
paid, attaches upon, and that'for his protection a.correspondent right
of retainer is created on his part; it is thereby made -known (i. e.
by the statute) that under no circumstances "in future should the
revenue be retained in the hands of the collector: that he should, in
no instance be regarded by those making payments to him as having
a lien upon it, because he is anriounced to be the mere instrument
or vehicle to convey the duties paid into his hands into the Treasury:
that it is the secretary of the Treasury alone in whom the rights of
the government and of the claimant are to be tested: and that whosoever shall pay to a collector any money for duties, must do so
subject to the consequences herein, declared. Such, from the 3d
day of March, 1839, was the public law of the United States; it
VOL. IH-31
x

SUPREME COURT.

°242

Cary"v. Ourtis.

operated as notice to every one; it applied, of course, to every citizen as well as to officers conceriied in the regulations of the revenue;
and as it removed the implications on which the decision of Elliott
v. Swartwofit materially rested, that case cannot correctly control
a question arising unde' a different state of the law; and under a
cQndition of the partiis- also essentially different.
- It will not be irrelevant here to advert to other obvious and
cogent reasonsby which Congress may bave been impelled to the
enactment in question; reasons which, it is thought, Will aid in furnishing a solutibn of their object.- Uniformity of imports and excises is required by the Constitution. Regularity and certainty in
the payment of the revenue must be .admitted ty every one as of
primar.y importance.: they maybe said almost to constitute the basis
of good faith in the transactions of the government; to be essential
to its practical-existence. Within the extended liinits of this country are numerous collection-districts; many officers must be intrtsted
'with the collection of the revenue, and persons much more numerous, with every variety of interest and purpose, are daily-required
to -make payments at the ports of entry. To permoit the receipts at
the' customs to. depend on constructions -as numerous as are the
agents employed, as various as might be the designs of those who
are interested; or to require that those receipts shall await a settlement -of 'every dispute or objection that might spring from so many
conflicting views, would'be greatly to disturb, if not to prevent, the
uniformity prescribed by the Constitution, and- by the same means
'to withhold from the government the means of fulfilling its important- engagements. In the -view of mischiefs so serious, and with
.teinte-lon of preventing br remedying them, nothing'would seem
more probable or more reasonabl4, we might add more necessary,
tha. I. 4hat the government should endavour to- devise a plan by
which, as far as practicable, to retain its fiscal operations within its
.own control, thereby.insuring that -uniformity in practice, enjoined
by the theory of the Constitution, and that punctuality which is
indispensable to the benefit of- all. Such a -plan has Congriess devised in the act in -question. We have no 'doubts of the objects or
the ihoport of that act; we cal mot doubt that it constitutes -the
secretary of the Treasury the source whence ipstructions are to
flow: -that it controls -both the position aVd the conduct of collectors of the revenue: that it has denied to.them every right or authority to.retain any portion of the revenue for purposes of contestation
or indemnity; has ordered and declared those collectors to be the
mere organs of receipt and transfer,- and has made the head of the
Treasury Department the tribunal for the examination of claims for
duties said to have been improperly paid.
It has been urged. that the clause of the act of 1839 declaring
that the money receiVed'sliall not be held by, any collector to await
any ascertainment ofdities, or the result of any litigation in relation
-

-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

243

"Cary v. Curtis.

to the rate or amount of duties legally chargeable and colleztable
in any case where money is so paid; shows that Congress did not
mean to deprive the party of his action of assumpsit against the
ebl]¢ctor: that litigation of that description was still contemplated,
and that. the only object of the law was .to place the money iu dispute in the possession of the treasurer, to await a decision, -insteadof leaving it in,the hafids of the collector. The court cannot assent
to thisconstructidn. It will be remembered that the two principal
cases in which collectors have" claimed .the right to retain, have
been those of unascertained duties, and.of suits.brought, or threat.
ened to be brought, for the'recovery of dutiei paid under proteste
It is matter of history that the alleged right to retain on these two
accounts, had led .to great abuses, and to much loss to the public;
and it is to these two subjects, therefore.. that 'the, act -of Congress
particularly addresses itslf. ' It begins by declaring that all money
received on -tl'ege accounts shall be paid 'into the Treasury; and
then, in order to show that the collector is not the person with
whom any claims-for this money 'are -to be- adjusted, or who is to be
held responsible for, it, the act proceeds to declare that the money
shall not remain'in his hands even if the pfotest is f'ollowed by 'a
stfit: that, notwithstanding suit may be brought against him, he.
shall still pay the money into the Treasury, and that the controversy
shall be adjusted with the secretary. Congress suppsed; probably,
that a party might choose to sue the collector, as has been done in
this instance; but.it does not by ;any means-follow, that it was
intended to. make him liable in the suit, or to give the party the
right of recovery against him. The words used go to show,
that neither a protest which is mentioned in the fist part of the
section, nor a suit which is mentioned in the clause of which 4e.
are speaking, shall be a pretext or excuse for retaining the money'
Suppose the words in relation to a litigation had. b'een omitted, and"
the law. had said, that the -colldector should not retain the money for
any ascertainment of duties, but that the secretary of. the Treasury
in that case, as well as in the case of duties' paid under protest,
should adjust the claim and pay what was really.due. The omission supposed *ould have strongly implied that, if there Was.liti
gation, he might retain, and it might be said with much show of
reason, that by forbidding,him -to retain for unascertained duties,
but not forbidding him to retain in case,of litigation for. duties lid.
under protest, implied that he could not retain for the form-er but"
,might for the latter. 'We hold it not a logical mode of reasonin'
where the omission of words would. evidently lead to a- particular
conclusion, to argue-that their insertion-can do the same thing..
Besides, the litigation spoken of, and which is said to lead to this
result, is a litigation for duties paid under protest, and not for over-'
paymneits of unascertdined duties. If these words were intended
to' sanctioft suits against collectors for the former, why are litigations

244

SUPREME COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

for the latter not also countenanced? Independently of this statute,
the collector might have been sued for over-payments .on unascertained duties as well as for dutieh paid under protest. And it can
hardly be reconciled-with reason or consistency that Congress designed to preserve the right of 'suit in the oie case, and to deny it
in the -ther. Yet if these words have the force contended for by
the defendant in error, they give the right of action against the collector for duties paid under protest only, leaving the party Who has
overpaid unascertained and estimated duties, no remedy but.that of
resorting to the secretary of the Treasury. "It would be difficult te
assign any good reason for such a diversity; we tlank none such
was intended, that none such in reality exists, that the law ifitends
merely to declare that if the protest is followed by a suit, the duties
in that case as well as in the other, shall bhe paid -into the Treasury
and shall not remain'in the hands of the.collectorto abide the result
-of the 'suit. The conclusion to which we have coine upon 'this
statute'is greatly sftengthenbd by the act of Congress of May 31st,
1844, chap. 31, which,. in suits brought by the United States for the
enforcement of the .rvenue laws, or Ibr the collection of. duties due
or alleged to be due on merchandise imported, authorizes a writ of
error from this court to the Circuit Courts without regard to the
sum in controversy. The object of this law undoubtedly was, to
obtain uniformity of decisin in regard to the duties imposed.
Prior to the act of 1839 there were often difertnces"of opinion in
the circuits in the construction of the laws, and in instzinces t6o'in
which the amount in controversy was too-small to.enable either
party to bring them here for'revisal by writ of error. It can hardly
then be irmagined that when Congress was taking measures expressly to secure uniformity of 'decision and practice in relation to the
amount of duties imposed by law, they would have confined the
wfit of error to cases broight by the United States, when they were
of small amount, and refused it in suits against collectors in similar
controversies, if they supposed that such suits could still be maintained." - Indeed it has heretofore been in this latter form that the
aimount of duties claimed has been far more frequently contested,
than by suits brought by the United States. And if this form of
trying the question had not been intended 'to be taken away by the
act of 1839, there dould have been no reason for excluding it from
the act of 1844... For the purppses obviously designed by this law,
it would have been much more 'impc:tant to the public to have
allowed the writ of error in suits hgainst c6letors, than in suits
instituted by the United States, supposing suits of the former description to be still maintaiinable; and the .omission of such a reme-dy strongly implies that the legislature supposed such suits could
-be no longer maintained.
. It is contended, however, that the language and the purposes of
Congress, if really what we hold them to be declared in'the statute

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

245

Cary v. Curtis.

of 1839, cannot be sustained, because they would be repugnt to
the Constitution, inasmuch as they would debar the citizen of his
right to resort'to the courts of justice. - The supremacy of the Con"stitution over all officers an'd authoritiesn, both of the federal and state
governments, and the sanctity of the rights guarantied by it, none
will question. These are concessa on-all sides. The objection above
referred to admits of the most satisfactory refutation. This may be
found in th& following positions, familiar in this and in most other
governments, viz.: that the. government, as a general rule, claims
an exemption from being sued in its own courts. That although, as
being charged with the admihistration of tie.laws, it will resort to
those courts as means of securing this great end, it will not permititself, to be impleaded therein, save in instances forming conceded
and express exceptions. Secondly; in the doctrine so often ruled
in this court, that the judicial' power of the United States, although
it has its origift in the Constitution, is (except in -enumerated instances, applicable exclusively to this court) dependent for its distribution and organization, and for the modes of its exercise, entirely
upon the action of Congress, who possess the sole. power of creating
'the tribunals (inferioi to the Supreme Court) for the exercise of the
judicial power, and of investing them with jurisdiction either.limited,
concurrent, or exclusive, and, of withholding jurisdiction from them
in the exact degrees and character which to Congress may seem
proper for the public good. To deny this position-Would be to elevate the judicial over the legislative branch of the goveinn'ent, andto give to the former powers limited by its own discretion merely.
It follows, then, that the courts created by statute must-look to the
statute as the warrant for their authority; certainly they, cannot go
beyond the statute, and assert an authority with which they may not.
be invested by. it, or which may be clearly denied to them. This
argument is in nowise impaired by admitting that the judicial power
9hall extend to all cases arising under the Confstitution.and laws 6f
the United States. Perfectly consistent with such an admission is
the truth, that the organization of the judicial Power, the definitionand distribution of the subjects of jurisdiction in the federal tribunals,
arid the modes of their action and authority, have been, and of right
must be, the work of the legislature. The existence of the Judicial
Act itself, with its several supplements furnishes proof uflanswerable'on this point. The courts of the United States are all limited
in their nature and constitution, and have not the powers inherent
in courts existing by prescription or by the common law.
In devising a system for imposing and collecting the public revenue, it was competent for"Congress to desigate the officer of the
government inwhom the rights of that government should be represented in any c6nffict which might arise, and to prescribe the manner of trial. It is not imagined, that. by so doing Congress is justly
chargeable with usurpation, or that the citizen -is
thereby deprived
x2

'246

SUPREME COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

of hi§ ,rights. There is nothing arbitrary in such arrangements; .they
are gneral in their character; are the result of principles inherent
in the g6~rnment ; are defined and promulgated as the public law.
A more
atking example
the powers
af
exerted by the government,
in
its.fiscal concerns, than is seen in the.act of 1839, is
the reintidn
pbwer ofto distress
and sale, authorized by the act of, Congress
of

the
comptroller
the Treasury.
This
very strongofand
summary
Mayfirst
15th,
1820, (3ofStory,
1791,) upon
adjustments
accounts
by
pr ceeding has now been in practice for n'early a quarter of a century, without its regularity having been questioned, so far as is known
to the court.

The courts of the United States can take cognisance
only of subjects .assigned to them expressly or by necessary implication;

fortori, they can take no cognisan'e of matters that by law

are either denied to them or expressly referred a aliud examen.
But whilst-it has been deemed proper, in examining the question
referred by the Circuit Court, to clear it of embarrassments with
which, from its supposed connection with the Constitution, it is
thought to be environed, this court feel satisfied that such embarrassments exist in imagination only and not in reality1: tat the case
and
the question now before them present no interference with the
Constitution
in any one of its provisions, and may

be, and should be

disposed of upon the plainest principles of common right.
these

In testing
propositions it i proper to recur to the case of Elliott
ana
Swartwout, and againto bring to cew the gronads on which that
case was ruled. It was, unquestionably, decided upon principles
which maybe admitted in ordinary caseb Qf agency, which expressly
re.cognise the
right,
nfy, the duty,

of the agent to retain, ad make
his .omission so to retain"an ingredient in the gravamen or breach of
duty, whence his iability and his promise are implied by the law.
The language of the court, 10 Peters, 154, is' this: Tier can be
no hardship in requiring the party to give notice to .the collector that
he considers the- duty claimed illegal, and put him on
bis guard by
requiring him not to py over the money. The collector.wold then
be placed in a situation to claim an indemnity from the government.
Btif the party is entirely silent, and nointimation is given of an
intenttion to seel repayment of the money, there can d-no ground
upon'which the coplector can retain the money, or call upon the goerment to -indemnify him agap st a suit." Here then the rlight
andthe duty of retainer are sanctionedwin the officer; without them
the notice spoken of w
ruld.benhgatory-a.vain ac,. hich the law
never recpiires. And this right antbis duiy in the oficer,.and this
injunction of notice to him,nieust ali be understood ad are propounded in this decision a pricips or precepts of the law, with the
knowledge of which each'of the parties must stand affecteo.
The action of assumpsitfor money ha and hreceived.it is said by
Ld. Mansfield, Bur 1012, Moses v.Macfar.tentwill liei
geeral
Whenever the defendant 'as reienthe money which is the proper-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

. 247

C.ary v. Curtis.

of the plaintiffT, and which the defendant is obliged by the ties of
natural justice and equity to refund. And by Buller, Justice, in
Stratton v. Rastall, 2 T. R. 370, "that this action has bean of late
years extended 6n the principle of its being'considered like a bill in
equity. And, therefore, n order t6 recover money in this form of
action the party must show that he has equity-and -conscience on his
side, and could recover in a court of equity.
These are-the general grounds of the action as given from high authority. There must
be room for implication as between the parties to thle action, and the
recovery must be e equo et bono, or it can never be. If the action is
to depend on the principles laid down by these judges, and especially by Puller, a case of hardship merely could scarcely be founded
upon them, much less could one of injustice or oppression, nor even
one which arose- from irregularity or indiscretion in the plaintiff's
own conduct. So far as the liability of ageits in this form of action
appears to have been considered, the general rule certainly is, that
.the action should be brought against the principal and not against a
known agent, who is discharged from liability by a bona Ade payment.over to his principal, unless anterior to making, payment
over he shall have had notice from the plaintiff of his right and of
his intention to claim the money. The absence of notice will be an
exculpation of the ageht in every instance. And with regard to the
effect of the notice in fiing liability upon the agent, that effect is
dependent on the known powers of the agent and the character of
his agency. If, for instance, the agent was knowntobe a mere carrier or vehicle to transfer to his employer the amount received, paymeit to the agent with .such-lmowledge, although- accoinpanied with
a denial of the justice of the demand, would seem to exclude every
idea of an agreement express or implied on the part of the agent to
refund; and cduld furnish no ground. for this action against the
agent who should pay over the fund received to his principal. This
doctrine is believed to be sanctioned by the cases of Greenaway v.
Hurd, 4 T. R. 553, of Coles v. Wright, 4 Taunt. 198, and of Tope
v. Hockin, 7 Barn. & Cres. 101. 'Tis true that the,case in Taunt.
ana that from Barn. & Cres. were not instances of payment under
protest; but the case from 4 T. R. has :this common feature with
that before us, that it was an action against an excise officer for duties said to have been illegally collected, in which th6 plaintiff denied the legality of the demand, though he subsequently paid it.
But all three of these cases condur in condemning the harshness of
a rule which would subject an agent, who is a mere.channel of conveyance or delivery of the amount which might pass through his
hands. Neither of these cases was affected by a positive statutory
mandate requiring the agent to make payment over to his principal.
Another principle herd to be fundamental. to this action is this:
tlt there must exist a privity between the -plaintiff and defendant;'
somethinpg on which an obligation, an engagement, 4 promise from

48SUPREME

COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

the latter to the forme5 can be implied; for if such implication be
excluded from the relation between the parties by positive law, or by
inevitable legal intendment, every foundation for the promise and of
the action upon it is destroyed; for none can be presumed or permitted to promise what either law or reason does not warrant or
may actually forbid. Thus, where bankers received bills from their
foreign correspondents, with directions to pay the amount to the
plaintiff, but on being applied, to by him refused to do so, althpugh
they aftLerwards received the amount of these bills; it was held, that
wouldthem
not and
lie totherecover
andpriviy
received
forthere
money
had no
an
plaintiff.it
between
being
them,
fromaction
Lord Ellenborough observed, the defendants might hold for the benefit of the remitter, until by some engagement entered into by themselves with the persons who were the objects of the remittance, they
had precluded themselves from so doing; but here, so far from there
being such,an engagement, they repudiated it altbgether. Williams
v. Everett, 14 East, 582.. Again, where J., an attorney, who was
accustomed to receive due's for the plaintiffl went from home leavinB., his clerk, at the office; B., in the absence of his master, receivea
money on account of the above dues'for the client, which he was
authorized to do, and gave a receipt "B., Tor Mr. J." J. was in
bad circumstances when he left home, and never returned. B.' afterwards refused to pay the money to the client, and on an action for
money had and received against him, it was held not to lie; for the
defendant received the money as the agent of his master, and was
accountable to him for it; 'the master, on the other hand, -being answerable to the client for the money received by the clerk, there was
no privity of contract between the present plaintiff and the defendant: Stevens v.Badcock, 3 Barn. & Adblph. 354. So in the case
of Sims et al. v. Brittain et al., 4 Barn. &Adolph. 375. A., B., and.
others, were part-owners of a ship inthe service of the East.India"
Company; B. was managing owner, and employ d C. as his-agent,,
and C. kept a separate account on his books with B. as such managing owner. In order to obtain payment of a sum of money from
the East India Company on account of the ship, it was necessary
that the receipt should be signed by one or more of the owners besides the managing owner; and upon a receipt being signed by B.
and by another of the owners, C. received £'2000 on account of the
ship, and placed it to the 'credit of. B. in his-books as managing
)wner; the part owners having brbught money had and received to
•ecover 'the balance of that account, held, tliat C. had received the
noney as the agent of B., and was accountable to him for it; and
hat there was no privity between the other part-owners and C., ad
onsequently, that the action was not maintainable. To the same
ffect are the cases of Rogers v. Kelly, 2,Camp. 123, and Edden' v.
tead, 3 Camp. 339, and Wedlake-v. Husley, 1 Crompton &-Jarvis,
3. If indeed the defendant has consented (%here he can properly.

JANUARY .TERM, 1845.

240

Oary v. Curtis.

conent) to hold the money for the use of the plaintiff, he may be
liable. And it is 6onced~d, that "his consent need not be express,
but it must, if not so, rest upon fair and natural implication or legal
intendment. Where such implication or intendment is excluded,
forbidden'by the position of the parties, by positive law, or by the
character of the transaction, consent or any obligation upon which
.to imply it is entirely removed.
We have thus stated, and will here recapitulate, the principles on
which the'action for money had and received may be maintained.
They are these. lst.. Whenever the defendant has received mon'ey
which is the property of the plaintiff, and- which the defendant is
obliged, by the ties -of natural justice and equity, to refund.. 2dly.
In the case of an agent, where such agent is not notoriously the
mere cairier "or instrument for transferring the fund, but has the
power of retaining, and before he has paid over has received notice
of the plaintiff's claim, and a warning not to part with the fund.
3dly. Where there exists a privity between the plaintiff and the defendant. Let the case before us be brought to thp test of these rules.
The 2d section of the act of. Congress declares, first, that from its
passage, all money paid to any collector of the customs for unascertained duties, or dutieg paid under prate.st a~ainst the rate or'amount
of duties charged, shall be placed to the credit -of, the -treasurer, to
be kept and applied as all other money paid for. duties required by
law.. Secondly, that they shall not be held by the collector to await
any ascertaininent of duties, or the result of dny litigation concern-ingthe rate or amount of duty legally chargeable or collectable. And
thirdly, that in all casds of dispute as to the rate of duties, application
shall be made to the secretary of the Treasury, who shall direct the
repayment of any money improperly charged. This section, as a
part of the public law, must be taken as notice to all revenue officers,
and to all importers and others dealing with those officers in the line
of their duty. There is nothing obscure or equivocal in this law; it
declares to every one subject to the payment of duties, the disposition vwnich shall be made.of all payments in future to collectors; tells
them those officers shall have no discretion over money received by
them; dnd especially, that they shall never retain it to await the result of any contest concerning the right to it; and that q.oad' this
money the statute has converted those officers into mere instruments
for its tiansfer to the Treasury. With full knowledge thus imparted
by the law, can it be correctly understood that the party making
payment can, ex equo et bono, recover against the officer for aciing in
literal conformity with the law, converting thereby the'performance
of his duty into an offence; or that upon principles of equity and
good conscience, an obligation and a pr6mise to refund shal be implied agaimst the express mandate of the law? Such a presumption
appears to us to be subversive of every rule of right.. The more
correct inference seems to be, that payment under such circumstances
VOL. .-- 32

250

SUPREME COURT.
Cary V. Cuft.is.

must, ei equo et bo'no, ngy, ex necessitate, ard.in despite of objection
made at the time, be taken as being made in-conformity with the mandate of the law and the duty of the officer, witich exclude not only anyimplied promise of repayment by the'officer, but would render void
an express-promise by him, founded upon-a violation-both of the law
and of his duty. The claimant had his option to refuse payment;
the detention 6f the goods for the adjustment of duties, being.an'incident of probable occurrence, to avoid this it could not be. permitted
to effect the abrogation of a public law, or a-system of public policy
essentially connected with the general action of the government.
The claimant, moreover, was not without other modes'of redress,
had he chosen to adopt them. He might have asserted'his right to
the possession of the goods, or his exemption from the'duties demanded; either by replevin, or in an action of detinue, or perhaps
by an action of trover, upon 'his tendering the'amount of duties admitted by him to be legally due. The legitimate inquiry before this
court is not whether all right of action has been taken away from the
party, and the court respondg to' no such inquiry. The questionpresented for decision, and. the only question decided, is-whether,
under, the notice given by the statute of 1839, payments made in
despite of that notice, though -with a protest against their supposed
illegity, can constitute a ground for that implied obligation to refund, and for that promise inferred by the law from such obligation,
which are inseparable from, and indeed'are the only.foundation of, a
right of recovery iathis particular form of action. And here is presented the answer to the assertion,, that by the act of 1839" or by the
construction given to it by this court, the p arty is debarred all access to the courts of justice, and 'left entirely at the mercy' of an executive officer. Neither have Congress nor this court furnished the
slightest ground for the above assertion.
. But the objection to a recovery in this action may be farther extended,-upon, grounds which to the couit appear to be insuperable,
We all know that this action for money had and received is founded
upon what the law terms an implied .promise to pay what. in good*
conscience the defendant is bouid to pay to the plaintiff. It being
in such case the duty of the defendant 'to pay, the law imputes to
him a promise to pay. This promise is always charged in the'declaraton, -and must be so charged in order,to maintain the action.
Itwas.upon this principle that the actioni for money had and received
was sustained 'in the case of Elliott. v. Swartwout. - There money
hb4-been'taken by the collector for duties which.-were not iinposed.
This money lawfully belonged to the plaintiff- it was the duty, therefore, of the collector to pay it back to him. 'The collector was not
bound to pay. it to the treasurer, for the law. did not'command this,
'disposition. of it. It did not belong to the United States, who had
norJght 'thefefore, to demand-it of him,; and cold not have recoyered it against him,-in a.'sait, if he had paicf it back to the true

JANUARY -TERM,, 1845;

251

Cary v. Curtis.

owner. It being the duty of the collector to return -what he had unlawfully taken, the law implied on his part a promise to do so; -and
on this implied promise, arising or inferred from a duty imposed Upon him'. the action was maintained.. The protest' and notice were
to him of n6 farther importance .than to warn him'to hold over, and
to take away an excuse he might-otherwise have had from payment
to his principal. It was his duty, us the law then stood, not to pay
over, but to pay back to the party from whom he had collected -ithoutlegal authority, when warned that this party should look to him
for reimburseme't, and not to his principal. *But the law never implie,.a liromise to payi unless .duty creates -the obligation to pay;
,and more especially it never.implies a promise to do an act contrary
to duty or contrary to law.. Now, under the statute of 1839, if the
collector receives money, though for duties'not due, it is nevertheless made his duty to pay it into the Treasury, to be repaid there, if
the party claiming is found to be entitled to -it. And the question
here is,will the law imply apromise from the collector'to do that
wlich is contrary t.his official duty, contrary to the.command of'a
positive statute? If it Will not, then the action of assumpsit for mothis case.
ney had and 'received will not lie in.
Moreover, the law will never4inply a promhise where it would be
unjust to the party to wbm it would be imputed, and contrary to
equity so to imply it.- .Suppose the collector should not, as directed
by law, pay the money into the Treasury, the United States might,
.undoubtedly maintain an action against him for money had and received to their use. -Because it being his duty to do so, the law
would imply a promise ta-pay it. Can the law at the same time
imply a promise to pay -it61sewhere or to another, and thus burden
the collector With the double obligation of paying to the government, and also to one claiming in adversary interest? Ifsuits were
instituted against him.by both parties, and were standing for trial
at the same time, would both be entitled to a recovery, and would the law imply promises to both, promise -to pay double.theamount
received? We think not; and as the law in positive terms directs
payment to bp. made into the Treasury,. there can be no judicial implication con"try to law, nor that the collector will pay to another
what the law directs him to pay,to the-United. States; in'd no judcial implication' which'would require him to be guilt of an act of
official misconduct, or a breach of his 'duty to the public. If the
laNW implies a promise to pay back to the p.arty, then it must be the
'duty of the collector to do so as soon as it is demanaed. * If the
.-money may be recovered of him by-suit, then he would be justified '
Sin-paying without suit, yet if he does so pay, he not only violates a
duty imposed by law, but nuay be compelled to pay. over again to
the government, as fok-so much money had and received to .its use.
We think the law can never imply a promise.which must be unjust
and oppressive in iis results to the party, or contrary to his duty as

252

SUP-REME COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

a public officer; and there being no implied promise, therefore in
this case the action for money had and received cannot be maintaied. It is perfectly blear to the court that, under the act of 1839,
the United, States have, by express law, a right to demand the money iron he-collector, and to recoverit in an action for moneyhad
and received, even if that officer had paid it over to the person from
whom he had' received it; and we say with confidence that in the
multitude of cases that hAve been decided in relation to that action,
there is not one in which it has been held that money could be recovered from a defendant when his voluntary payment of it would
leave him still liable to an action for the same money by another.
We deem it unnecessary to examine farther the grounds stated in
the second and third heads of inquiry, as forming the foundation of
the action for money had and -received; or to bring to a particular
comparison with those grounds the law and the facts of this case, as
presented upon the record. The illustrations given under the first
head embrace all that is'important under the remaining' divisions,
with respect to the nature 6f the demand and the position of the parties. Those illustrations establish, in the view of the court, that, so
far is the defendant froni being obliged, by the ties-of natural equity
and justice, to refund to the plaintiff the money received for duties,
that, on the contrary, under that notice of the law which all must be'
presumed to 'pdssess, the payment must be understood as having
been made with knowledge of the parties that the right of retainint
or of refunding the money did not exist in the defendant; that the
.money by law must pass from'him immediately upon its receipt;
that payment to him was in legal effect payment into the Treasury;
that notice to him was, -under such circumstances, of no effect to
bind, him to refund; that as the collector, since the statute, had
power neither to retain nor refund, there could, as betweenhim and
the plaintiff, arise no privity nor implication, on which to found the
promise raised .by the law, only where an obligation to undertake or
promise exists; and that, therefore, the action for money had and
received could not, in this case, be maintained, but was barred by
the act of Congress of 1839.
Mr. Justice STORY.
I regret exceedingly being compelled by a sense of duty to express openly niy- dissent 1rom the opinion of the majority of the
court in this case. On ordinary occasions my habit is to submit iii
silence to the judgment of the court where I happen to entertain an
opinion different from that of my brethren. "But.the:present case
involves,, in my judgment, doctrines-and consequences which, with
the utn~ost deference and respect for those who think o herwise, I
citizens,
of all
our intended
the ights
cannot but deem most deeply affectingguards
rights
of tose
and caculated to supersede the gret
to be secured by the Constitution thrugh the instrunfntality of the

JANUARY TERM, 1845.1

253

Cary v. Curtis.

judicial power, state or national. Tie question, 'stripped of all formalities, is neither more nor less than this: Whether Congress have
a right to take from the citizens all right of action in any court ,to
recover back money claimed illegally, and extorted by compulsion,
by-its officers under colour bf law, but without any legal authority,
and thus to deny theiA all remedy for an admitted wrong; and to
clothe the -secretary of the Treasury with -the sole and exclusive
authority to withhold or restore that money according to his own
notions of justice or ri ht? If Congress may do so in the present
case, in the exercis of its power to levy and collect'taxes and duties, and thus take away from all courts,-state and national, all right
to interpret.,the laws for levying and collecting taxes and duties, and
to confile such 'interpretation to one of its own executive functionaries, whose judgment is to be at once .summary and final, then I
must say, that it seems to nie to be not -whatI had hitherto.supposed
it to be: a government where the three great departments, legislative, executive, and judicial, had indepdndent duties to perform
each in its own sphere; but the judicial power, designed by the Con-'
stitution to be the final and appellate jurisdiction to interpret our
laws, issuperseded in its most vital and important functions. I.
know of no power, ii-deed, of which a free people ought to be more
jealous, than of that of levying taxes and duties; and yet if it is to
rest with a mere executiv functionary of the govefnm'ent absolutely
and finally to decide what taxes and duties are leviable under a partidular act,,without ny power of appeal to any judicial tribunal, it
seem§ to me that we have no security whatsoever for the rights of
the citizens. And if Congress possess a constitutional' uthority to
vest such summary and final power of interpretation in an executive
functionary, I know no other subject within the reach of legislation
which may not be exclusively confided in the same Way to ah executive functionary; nay, to the executive himself. Can it be true
that the Ameridan people ever contemplated such a"state of things
ag justifiable or practicable under our Constitution? I cannot bring
my wind to believe it; and, therefore, I repeat it, with the most
sincere respect for iry brethren, who entertain a different opinion, I
deny the constitutional authority of Congress to delegate such f mctions to any executive officer, or to pke away all.right of action for
an adritted-wrong and illegal exercise of power in the levy of money from the injured citizens. I am .frtherof opinion,.as I shall.
endeavour preseftly to show, that Congress never had contemplated
passing any such act, and that the act of the 3d of March, 1839,
chap. 82. § 2, neither requires nor in my humble judgment justifies such an interpretation.
What is the real question jresented, upon the division of oliinion
in the Circuit'Coirt, for the consideration of this court? It is not
whether an action to recover back the money illegally claimed and
paid to the collector for duties, in order to obtain possession of the

~Y

254

SUPREME COURT.
Caryv. Curtis.

goods by the owner under a protest that they were not legally due,
would lie in the Circut Court, for no such question arises on the
record, and it is incontrovertible and uncontroverted, that if any
such action would lie, it would lie in the national courts as well as
in the state courts. It is not whether Congress may limit, restrain,
modify, or eve4 take away the right to sue in the national courts, in
cases like the present, or, indeed, in any other class of cases not
constitutionally provided for,; but it is simply whethier the act of
Congress "of the 3d of March, 1839, chap. 82, § 2, is a bar to such
an action in any court, state or national If it is a good bar in one
court, it is good in all courts under the provisions of that act. If
Congress have a right to say, and have said, under the provisions
of that act, that no officers of the customs shall be liable to any
action for money extorted by him under colour of his office without
authority and against law, then these provisions are equally apRli bale
to all courts, and furnish the rule of decision, for all. And Congress
have an equal right to apply a like provision to all other acts of all
other officers done under colour of office, and the trial by jury may,
in suits at common law, be completely taken away inall such cases,
Lnd thd right of final,decision be exclusively vested in the executive,
or in any other public functionary, at the pleasure of Congress.
Now, how stands the common law on this very subject? It is,
that an action for money had and received lies in all cases to recover
back money which a person pays to another in order to obtain possession of his goods froln the latter, who -withholds them from him
upon an illegal demand, or claim, colore oicii, and thus wrongfully
receives and withholds the money. Such a payment is in no just
sense treated in law as a voluntary payment,-but it is treated as a
payment made by compulsion, and extorted by the necessities of
the party who pays it. "Such is the doctrine of the common law
as heild inEngland, with a firm and steady hand, againgt all the
claims of prerogative, and it is maintained in our day as the unde- niable. right of every Englishman, against the unjust and illegal exactions of officers of the crown. Or. Justice Bayley laid down the
general principle with great exactness in Shawv. Woodcock, 7 Barn.
and Cres. 73, 84, and said: "If a party has in his possession goods
or other property belonging to another, and refuses to deliver such
property to thtit other unless the latter pays him a sum of money
which he has no right to receive, and the lktter, in order to oblain
possession of his property, pays that sum, the money so paid is a
payment made by compulsion, and may be recovered back." In'
Irving v. Wilson, 4 Term R. 485, the doctrine was applied to the very
case of the acts of an officer of the excise or customs. Upon that
occasion Lord Kenyon emphatically said: "The revenue laws
ought not to be made the means of oppressing the subject. If
goods liable to a forfeiture be forfeited, the officer is to seize them
for the king, but he is not permitted to abuse the duties of his sta-

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

255

Cary v. Curtis.
tion, and to make it a mode of extortion." There. are many other
authorities leading to the same result, but it is unnecessary to cite
them, since the very point that an action for money had and received
lies against a collector of the customs to recover back money demanded by and paid to him, colore ofldii, apon goods imported, for
duties not legally due thereon, has been, upon the most solemn deliberation, held by this court in the cases of Elliott v. Swartwout,
10 Peters, 137, and Bend v. Hoyt, 13 Petexs, 263, 267.
It is an entire mistake of the true meaning of the rule of the com.
mon law, which is sometimes suggested in argument, that the action
of assumpsit for money had and received is founded upon a voluntary,
express, or implied promise, of the defendant, or that it requires
privity between the parties ex contractu to support it. The rule
of the common law'has a much broader and deeper foundation.
Wherever the law pronounces that a party is. -under a legal liability
or duty to pay over money belonging to another, which he. has no
lawful right to exact or retain from him, there it forces the promise
upon him in invitum to pay over the money to the party entitled to
it. It is a result of the potency of the law, and is in no shape dependent upon the will or consent or voluntary promise of the wrongful possessor. ' The promise is 'only the form in -hich the law announces its own judgment upon the matter of right and duty and
remedy; and under such circumstances any argument founded upon
the form of the action, that it must arise under or in virtue of some
contract, is disregarded, upon the maxim qui karet iA litera, hAret.
in cortice. Hence, it is a doctrine of the common law, (as far as
my researches extend,) absolutely universal, that if a man, by fraud,
or wrong, or illegality, obtains, or exacts, or retains money justly
belonging to another, with notice that the latter contests .the right of
the former to receive, or exact, or retain it, an action for money had
and received lies to recover it back; and it is no answer for the
wrongdoer to say that he has paid it over to his superior; for although as between the wrongdoer and his superior, the maxim may
well apply, respondeat superwr, yet the injured party-is not bound
to seek redress in that -direction ;"and (Ifortiori, &c., he is not so
bound, where, as-in the case of the government, the superior is not
suable. That would be a mere mockery of justice. And this is
the,'very doctrine affirmed in its full extent by this court in the cases
of Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137, and Bend v. Hoyt, 13 Peters, 263, 267.
An.action for money.had and received being then the known
and
*appropriate remedy of the common*law, applied to cases of this sort,
'to protect'the subject from illegal' taxation, and duties levied- by
public officers, what -ground is there to suppose that Congress could
intend to take away so important and valuable a remedy, and leave
our citizens utterly without any adequate protection? It is said, that
circuitously another remedy may be founmL The answer is, that if

258

SUPREME COURI.
Cary v. Curtis.

Congress have taken away the direct remedy, the circuitous remedy
must be equally, barred. But in point of fact no other judicial
remedy does exist or can be applied. If the collector is Pot responsible to pay back the money, nobody is. The government itself
is fiot suable at all; mId certainly there is no pretence to say that
the secretary of the Treasury is suable therefor. Where then is the
remedy which is-supposed to exist? It is an appeal to the secretary
of the Treasury for a. return of the money, if, in his opinion it ought
to be returned, and not otherwise. No court, no jury nay not
even the ordinary rules of evidence, are to pass between Vhat officer
and the injured claimiant, to try his rights or to secure him adequate
redress. Assuming that the secretary of the Treasury will always be
disposed to do what he deems to be right in the exercise of his discretion, and that-he possesses all the qualifications requisite tq perform this duty, among the other complicated duties of his office-a
presumption which I am in no manner disposed to question-still it
removes not a single objection. It is, aller all, a substitution of executive authority- and discretion for judicial remedies. Nor should
it be'disguised, that upon so complicated a subject as the nature and
character of articles .made subject to -duties, grave controversies must
alwtys exist (as they have always hitherto existed) as to the category
within *hich particular fabrics and articles are to be classed. The
line of discrimination between, fabrics and articles approaching near
to each other in quality, or component materials, or commercial denominations, is often very nice'und difficult, and onietimes exc6edingly obscure, It is the very case, therefore, which. is*fit for judicial inquiry and decision, and falls within the reach of that branch
of the judicial power given by the Constitution, where it is declared
"that the judicial power shall extend to all cases in lw and equity
arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and
treaties, &c." If then the judicial power-is to. extend to all cases
arising under the laws of the United States, upon whiat ground are
we to say that cases of this sort, which are eminently 11 cases arising.
under the laws," and of a judicial nature, are to be eicluded from
judicial cognisance, and lodged with an executive functionary?
Besides, we all know that, in all revenue. cases, it is the constant
practice of-the secretary of the Treasuir to give written -instructions
to -the various collectors of the customs as to what duties are to b
collected under particular revenue laws- andwhat, in his judgment,
is the proper initerpretation of those laws. I will venture to assert
that, in nineteen "cases out of twenty of doubtful interpretation of
any such laws, the collector never acts without the express instructiors .oi the secretary of the Treasury. So that in most, if not in
all cases where a confroversy, arises, the secretary of the Treasury.
has already pronounced his own judgment. Of what use then,
practically speaking, is the appeal to him, since he has already
given his decision ? Fu ther, it is well known, and the annals of

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

257

Cary v. Curtis.

this court as well as those of the other courts of the United States
establish in the fullest manner, that the interpretations so given by
the secretary of the Treasury have, ifn many instances, differed
widely from those of the courts. The Constitution looks to the
courts as the final interpreters of the laws. Yet the-opinion maintained by my brethren does, in effect, vest such interpretation'exclusively in that officer.
These considerations have led me to the -conclusion that it never
could be the intention of Congress to pass any statute, by which
the courts of the United States, as well as the state courts, should
be excluded from all judicial power in the interpretation of the
revenue laws, and that it should be exclusively confided to an executive functionary finally to interpret and execute them-a'power
which must press severely, upon the citizens, however discreetly
exercised, and which deeply -in-'olves their- constitutional rights,
privileges, and liberties. The same considerations force me, in all
cases of doubtful or ambiguous language admitting of different
interpretations -to ling to that which should least trench upon
those rights, privileges, and liberties, and &fortiorito adopt that
which would be in general harmony with our whole system of
government.
And this lads me to say that, after the most careful examination
of the 2d section of the act of 1839, chap. 82, I have nof been able.
to find any ground to presume that Congress ever contemplated any
thing contained in that section to be a bar to the present action. I
look upon that section as framed for a very different object, an object founded in-sound policy and to secure the public interest.' It
was to prevent officers of the customs from retaining (as the habit
of some had been) large sums of money in their hands received for
duties, upon the pretence that they had been pnid under protest,
and thus to secure in the hands of the officers a sufficient indemnity
for -all present as well as future liabilities to the persons who had
paid them. By this means large sums of money were withheld
from the government, and there was imminent danger that severe
losses'might thus be sustained from the defalcation of those officers,
and the public revenue might be thus appropriated to the personal
business or speculating concerns of the officers. "If actions should
be brought and judgment obtained. against such- officers for the
repayment of any of 'such duties, it was plain-that the government
would be bound to indemnify them, especially if they had acted
under instructions from the- Treasury Department.' On the other
hand, the government,' being in possession of the'money, would
hold it in the mean time as a deposit to await events, and to refund
the same if in the due administration of the law it was adjudged
that it ought to be refunded. Such, in my judgment, was the object and the sole object of the section, and it seems to me in this
view to be founded in a wise protective policy.
y 2
Vpt. HI.-33 -

SUPREME COURT.
Caryv. Curtis.
With this exposition in our view, let us examine the language of
the section.' It is as follows: - 'That from and. after the passage of
this act, all money paid to any -collector of the customs or to any
person acting as such, for unascertained duties or for ,duties paid
under protest against the rate-or amount of duties charged, shall be
placed to the credit of'the treasurei of the United States, kept and
disposed of as all other moneypaid, for duties is required by law or
by tegulation of the Treasury. Depaitment to be placed to the credit
of said treasurer, kept dnd disposed of; and shall not be held by
the said collector or person acting as such to await any ascertainment of duty, or.the result of any'litigation iu. relation to the rate or
amnount.of duty' legally chprgeable ard collectable in any case where
money is so paid.' Now, pausing here, it seems to me that the
clause is plainly -and merely directory to the, collector'or.person acting as such, pointing out his duty and requiring him to pass. the
money s6 paid to the credit of the government as soon as it is
received. Nothing is "hqre said as to the rights of third persofis,
who pay the money for duties; no declaration is .made.that the collector shall not be liable to any action: for such duties, if not legally
"demnidable -or payable, or that thE" collecior or such other person
shall hot be liable to refind -the same.. And yet, if such ha been
.the intention of Congress, it seems to me incredible that a provision
to this effect should not have been found in the act., But further;
.-not only is there a total absence of any such provision, but there is
positive evidence that Congress.eptemplated that there would, be
suits brought against the'collectors -,ad,.pther persons for the repayment ofrsucb duties, and, accordingly,, as we see, the money'Is not
to be retained'by them "to await any ascertainment 6f duties or the
result of any litigation." The lahguage is not limited to the result
of -past or pdnding litigation, but it equally applies.to future litigation in short any litigation; without any limitatioh as to time, and
indeed to be coextensive with the~permanent prospective operation
of the act. if, then, there is in this clause no positive or. implied
bar to any action provided'for, and if the clause is perfectly satisfied
by deeming it to be 'what it professes on its face-to be, a regulation
addressed to the collectors and other persons collecting duties, and
directory to them, let us see if the subsequent clause, which contains
the residue of the section, either enlarges, or qualifies, or repels the
inferences drawn fr6m the preceding clause. This clause is, "But
whenever it shall be shown to the satisfaction of the secretary of the
Treasury, that, in any case of unascertained duty or duties paid under
protest, more money has been paid to the collector or other person
acting as such, than the law requires' should. have been paid, it shall
be his duty to draw his'-wartant upon the treasurer in favour of the
person or persons entitled to the over-payment, directing the said
treasurer to refund the same out of .any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated." -

JANUARY

TERM, 1845.

259

Cary v. Curtis.
This is the whole of the clause, and, unless I.am greatly deceived
in its purpQrt and effect, not~one word is o:be found tl erein which
bars the party who has .paid the money from his riglt of action
against the collector or otherpersons acting as such.to recover back
the money illegally claimed,' or which compels such party to make
his application or appeal sblely.to the secretary of the Treasury for
redress, or gives to the latter ex6lusive power, jurisdiction, and final
arbitrament in the premises. The true object'of this clause seems
to he precisely what its language imports, to give the secretary of the
Treasury a power which he did not previously possessf to draw from
the Treasr-Y money which had been overpaid for duties.when he
was satisfied of such over-payment, upon the application of the party
interested. It was not to be compulsive oi the party, that he should
so apply, but he had an option to apply to the secretary, to save the
delay and.expense of a protracted litigation; if th6 secretary should
grant him the desired relief. It woul also diminish the necessity
of applications to Congress for the repayment of money which had
been illegally paid for duties, by enabling the-secretary to draw his
warrant upon the Treasury for the amount; which' relief, when' the
money had been paid into the Treasury, could not before be obtained' except by means of an act of Congress. It was, therefore,
an auxiliary provision to the general rights of action secured to the
party by the common law, and not in extinguishment or suspension
of it. Whether th& clause, clothed the secretary also with authority
to draw a yvarrant in favour' of the party, if he recovered back he
money in a suit at law'against the collector, is a matter which might,
upon the strict words of the clause, admit of some doubt, since the
case provided for is only where the over-payment shall be shown to
the satisfaction of the secretary, and not where it is a result of a..
judgment at law. Bt a liberal construction might embrace such.
a case also, as ;within the intent, if not strictly within the words.
But be this as it may, it is manifest to my mind, -with all deference
to the judgment of others, that-the affirmative power thus given by
this clause to the secretary, cannot be- construed to exclude the
right of the party to his remedy at the comi~ion law "without a violation of the known rules of interpretation, by adding imapoitant
and material language which the legislature has not use't; and incorpointing provisions which neither the words n'or the professed.objects of the section require.
Nor am I able to perceive any grounds upon which a different
interpretation can bQ" maintained, unless it be, that it would be, d
hardship upon the collector- to require him to pay money over to
the government which I'e might be compelled again to pay to the
party from whom he had illegally demanded it. -One answer, to
this suggestion is, that he cannot .complain, because it 'is his o'wn
choice to hold an' office to which such a duty or responsibiliy is
attached, and if he elects to,hold it, he ought to take it cum onere.

2860

.SUPREME*COURT.
Cary v. Crti's.

Another and conclusive answer is, that' he has a perfect right of
indemnity from the government'; nor can it be doubted that the
government will always indemnify all its officers for acts done by
its orders and demands made.under' its authority. On the other
hand, an extreme hardship would be thrown upon th6 injured party,
whose money is taken from him agaist his will by colour of office,
and against .his right, if his common law rem~dy is swept away;
for then he can have no means of redress, and no indemnity, since
he has resisted the. demands of the government and asserts an adversary interest.
Nor is'it any ground of. excuse, (as has been already suggested,)
in case of money -paidby 66mpulsion, that the officer has paid over
the money to his principal; and in this respect, it differs from the
case of a voluntary payment. ,This distinction was taken and acted"
upon in the case of Snowden v. Davis, I Taunt. R. 358, where
money had been paid to a bailiff under a threat of a distress by
an excess of authority, and the money had.been paid over by him
to the sheriff, and by the latter-into the exchdquer. And the same
doctrine was fully xecognised andconfirmed by this court upon the
most solemn consideration in Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137,
after a full review of all the leading authorities.
Upon the whole my'opinion is, °that the question propounded by
the Circuit Court upon the division of opinion of the judges in that
court,. ought to be answered in the negative, that the 2d section of
the act of 3d of March, 1839, chap. 82, was no bar to the action.
Mr. Jusice McLEAN.
This suit was brought to recover from the defendant, collector of
the customs, an excess of duties exacted by him of the plaintiffs
against law. And on the trial in the Circuit Court the judges were
divided on thd question, "whether the act of the 3d of March, 1839,
was a bar to the action." This point-hag been certified to this
court.
The 2d section of the above act provides, " that from and after,
the passage of this -act, all money paid to any collector of. the customs, or to any person acting as such for unascertained duties, or
for duties paid under protest against the rate or amount of- duties
charged, shall be placed to the credit of the treasurer of the United
States, kept and. disposed of as all other money paid for duties is required- by law or by regulation of the Treasury Department to be
placed to the credit of the said treasurer 3 kept and disposed of; and
shall not be held by the said collector, or person acting as such, to
await any ascertainment of duties gr the result of any litigation in
relation to the rate or amount of duty leglly chargeable and collectable in any case where money is so laid_ but whenever it shall be
shown to the satisfaction of the secretary- of the Treasury, that, in
any case of unascertained duties or duties jiaid.under protest, more

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

261

Cary v. Curtis.

money has been paid to the collector or person acting as such. than
the law requires should have been paid, it shall be his duty to draw
his warrant upon the treasurer in favour of the person or'persons entitled to the over-jayment, directing the said'treasurer to refund th6e
same out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise ap'propriated."
In the case of Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137, and in -Bend
v. Hoyt, 13 Peters, 263, this court held, that illegal duties exacted
by the collector were .recbverable from him, where paid under protest, by the .importer, in an-action of assumpsit. This doctrine is not
questioned in this country 'or in England. Has the 2d section of
the act above cited changed: the law in this respect? A majority of
the judges havd decided in the affirmative, and that that act constitutes a ar to an action in such a case. I dissent from the opinion
of the court.
The above section, in my judgment, so far from taking away the
legal remedy,'expressly recognises it. The collector is required,
" from and after the passage of the-act,"1 to pay over to the treasurer
the moneys in his hands, and not "to await any ascertainment of
duties, or the result of any litigation in relation to the rate or amount
of duty legally chargeable," &c. Now, if'Congress intended by
this section to withdraw this subject from the courts, and vest the
exclusive right to decide the matter in the secretary of the Treasury,
could they have used this language? The law was not to operate
upon the past, but upon the future acts of the collector. And I ask.
in sober earnestness, whether the collector could be required to pay.
over money, "and not await the result of a litigation," as 1 to the'
amount of duties legally chargeable," if the intention was to prohibit
such liticration. I use the words of the section;. and the words of the'
section alone, as I think, are concusive as to the intention of Congress.
The.collector' must pay over the money, and not retain it until the
termination of a suit. Does this take away the right to bring a suit?
Such an inference, it seems to me, would be as exceptionable in logic
as in law.
From the proceedings of this court we know that dollectors of
the customs after their removal from offic or the expiration of their
term, and sometimes while in office, under !he pretext of indemnifying themselves against suits for the exaction of illegal duties, were
in the practice of withholding from the Treasury large sums of
money. And it was to remedy this evil, that 'the. above law'was
passed. As to the remission of duties illegally charged, it vested-in
the secretary no new powers; but it authorizes him, where the exces
of duty has been paid, into the Treasury, to.draw it out by a warrant, and pay it over to the person entitled to receive it. By the 21st
section of the Duty Act of 1799, (1 Story, 692,) the collectors "'were
required, at all times, to pay to the order of the proper officer the
whole of the moneys which they may respectively receive, &c., and
shall once in three months, or oftener if required, transmit their ac-

262

SUPREME COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

counts," &c. Now, it is known from public documents and from
cases before this court, that the secretary of the Treasury has, for a
long time before the act of 1839, required the pollector of New York
to pay over moneys received by him, weekly or at short intervals.
And can it be pretended that the act of 1799, under the instructions
of-the secretary of the Treasury, was not as binding upon collectors
as the act of 1839 ? In a legal point of view the liability of a col'lector was the same for illegal duties recdived by him, whether paid
into the Treasury under the one law or the other.
It is said that the law cannot raise a promise to pay by an officer,
where it requires him to pay the same money into the Treasury.
The action is founded on the illegality of the transaction. None
other than legal duties are payable to the government; and where
an officer by his own volition, or acting under the instr,etonns of
his superior, demands a higher duty than the law authorizes, le is
guilty of a wrong which his instructions cannot justify. And having
doneythis, can it be contended, that by paying over moneys so obtained he can escape the legal consequence of his unlawful act?
Where one person obtains money illegally from another, is he not
bound in conscience to return it? And may not an action of assumpsit be sustained for the recovery of the money?

In such an

action the question is, whether the .defendant has received money
which he is bound in good conscience, to pay to the plaintiff. Now,
if the defendant, as collector, exacted a higher duty of the plaintiffs
than the law authorized, is he not bound in conscience to return the
excess? But it is said that he has paid it over to the Treasury of
the United States, in pursuance of the act of 1839, and that iis it.
a bar to the action. Why has not this bar been' set up under the
act of 1799 ? By that act the collector, when ordered by the secretary of the Treasury, was as much bound to pay over the money in
his.hands into the Treasury asunder the act of 1839. And yet for
forty-four years such a defence has not been thought of. It has
never beei supposed that the payment of the money into the Treasury exonerated the collector. He has violated the law, and he is
answerable for that violation. This musthbe the case, unless, in the
language of this court in the case -of Elliott v. Swartwout above
cited, "1the broad proposition can be. mintained, that no action -will
lie against a collector to recover back an excess of duties paid him,
but that recourse must be had to the government for redress. Such
a principle," the court say, "would be carrying an exemption to a
public officer beyond any protection sanctioned by any principles of
.
law or sound public policy."
In Townson v. Wilson et al., 1 Camp. 396, Lord Ellenborough
says, "If any person gets money into his hands illegally, he cmmot
discharge himself by paying it over to.another." The same doctrine
is held in Sadler v. Evans, 4 Burr. 1986. And this court in the
above case of Elliott v. Swartwout say, "It may be assumed as the

JANUARY TER& , 1845.

P-6S

Cary r. Curtis.
"ettled doctrine of the law, that where money is illegally demanded
and received by an agent, he cannot exonerate himself from responsibility by paying it over to his principal, if he has hld notice not to
pay it over. A notice not to pay over the money to the principal, it
is contended, presupposes a right in the agent to retain if. No such.
inference could arise under the act of 1799, nor can it be made under. the present law. The notice should induce the collector to reconsider his act, and if found to have been against law to correct it.
But it is said, he may have acted under the orders of the secretary
of the Treasury. Suppose he did, would that justify or excuse an
illegal act? I will answer this in the language of this court in the
case last cited: "Any instructions from the Treasury Department
could not change the law or affect the rights of the plaintiff. He;
the collector, was not bound to take and adopt that instruction. He
was at liberty to judge for himself, and act accordingly."
And in
Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 99, this court say, ' that the personal inconveniened of the collector is not to be considered."
When acting under instructions the government is bound to indemnify him. In my judgment the act of 1839 interposes no bar to
this action.
But there is another aspect in which this case mustbe considered.'
reelinig, as I do, an unfeigned respect for the opinion of the judges
-who differ from me, yet I cannot, without concern, look at the consequences of the principle established in this case. The right of a
citizen to resort to the judicial tribunals of the country, federal or
state, for redress for an injury done by a public officer, is taken
away by the construcfion of an act of Congress, which, in my judgment, bears no such construction. But I will take higher ground,
and say, that Congress have no constitutional power to pass such an
act as the statute of 1839 is construed to be by this decision.
By the 2d section of the 3d article of te Constitution of the
United States, the judicial power extends to all cases in law and
equity arising under the Constitution nd laws of the union. And
by the 7th section of the amendments to the Constitution it is provided, that C1 in suits at common law, where .the value in controversy
shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shOll be preserved."
The act of 1839, in my judgment, does not conflict with either of
the Above constitutional.provisions. But if it take away the right
of the citizen to sue in a court of law for the injury complained of,
as construed by my brethren, then it is in direct conflict with both
of the above provisions.
In a matter of private right it takes from the judiciary the power
of construing the law, and vests it in the secretary'of the Treasury;
the executive officer under whose sanction or instruction the wrong
complained of was done.

264

TSUPREME COURT.
Cary v. Curtis.

And in the second place it takes from the citizen the right of
trial by jury, which is expressly given tohim by the Constitution.
I ain repeat that Congress have not done this, nor did they
intend to do it by the act of 1839. But the act is so construed by
the decision just pronounced. Under this view, I feel myself
bound to consider the principle established by the court, and to
speak of its consequences.
That the act, as construed, is in direct conflict with the above
provisions of the Constitution, is so palpable that it seems to me no
illustration could make it clearer.
The right to construe the laws in all matters of controversy, is
of the very essence of judicial power. Executive officers who are
required to act under the laws, of necessity, must give a construetion to them. But their construction is not final. Z en it operates
injuriously to the citizen, he may, by any and everi possible means
through which it may be brought before the courts, have the construction of the law submitted to them, and their decision is final.
But the court say, that the plaintiffs in this case cannot seek
redress for the injury complained of, by an action at law, but, under
the act of 1839, are referred to the secretary of the Treasury; an
'executive officer, who has prejudged the case, who can exercise
neither the forms nor the functions of a judicial officer; who acts
summarily, without a jury, and from whose judgment there is no
appeal. The case turns upon facts; facts properly triable by a
jury. The question is, whether the articles on which the duties
have been assessed, are such articles as under the law are liable to
be thus taxed. This is a question most fit to be _answered bya
jury of merchants,'under the instrc.tions of a court of law. The
plaintiffs
allege that the duty was not authorized by law, but to obtain possession
of their goods, they were compelled to pay it, protesting against the right of the government. And they brought an
action at law to recover from the collector the excess of duty paid.
This course had been sanctioned by previous decisions. It was, in
fact, the only 'effectual course they could take to obtain possession
of their goods. A tender of the legal duty, and a replevin, if it
would lie, involved the necessity of security for a return of the
goods which, if in the power 6f the importers, might not have been
convenient to them. But a replevin is expressly prohibited in such
a case by the act of 2d March, 1833.
The question arises on the facts stated. Illegal dutie were demanded by the collector- and paid to him by the plaintiffs, before
they could obtain their goods; and the question is, has their remedy
at law been cut offby the statute of 1839? This is a taxing power;
the most delicate power that is exercised by the governmhent. It
reaches the concerns of the citizen, and takes from him a part of
his property-for purposes of revenue. The tax should be judicious,
and the mode of collecting it should be specially guarded. Care

JANUARY TERM, 1845.

265

Cary v. Curtis.
should be taken not to infringe private right in making this public
exaction. But, especially, where, in this respect, a wrong has been
done to the citizen, the courts should be open to him. His remedy
should be without obstruction. But my brethren saythat the act
of 1839 takes away from the plaintiffs all remedy except an appeal
to the secretary. Th6 state courts as well as the federal are closed
against the injured party.
. The able men who laid the foundations of this govern ent saw
that, to secure the great objects they had in view, the executive,
legislative, and judicial powers, must occupy distinct and independent spheres of action. That .the union of these in .one individual
or bodyof men constitutes a despotism. And every approximation to this union partakes of this character.
What.though no positive injustice be done to the plaintiffs in this
case; is that any reason why the great principle involved in it
should be yielded? What is this principle? It is nothing less than
this; that' throughout the whole course of executive action, summary, diversified, and multiform as -it is, for wrongs done the citizen, all legal redress- may be withdrawn from him; and he'may be
turned over as a petitioner to the power that did. the wrong. Ifthis
may be done in the case under consideration, it may, on the same
principle, be done in every similar case.
A seizure of a vessel and cargo may be made by an officer under
a supposed breach of the revenue law, and the question: of-forfeiture
may be referred to the secretary of the Treasury. Private property
may be taken for public purposes, and the owner may be limited
to the remedy, if remedy it may be called, of petitioning some executive officer for remuneration. Military violence may be perpetrated on the person of a citizen or on his property, and his relief
maybe made to depend on the will of the commander-in-chief. In
short, in every line of the .executive power, wrongs may be done
and leggal redress may be denied.
The cases put may seem to be extreme ones, and therefore not
likely to happen. But do they not test .the principle? I think
they do. If Congress may deprive these plaintiffs of their remedy
by action at law, they may do the same thing in the cases specified.
Indeed, it would be difficult to prescribe any limit to lhgislative
action on this subject. It can, at least, be extended through all the
ramifications of executive power.
To say that this will "never be done, and that the consequences
spoken of can-never happen, is no answer to the argument.. Do
the consequences lie within the exercise of the principle? If they"
do, the consequences must follow a general exercise of the power.
The danger is in sanctioning the principle. At this point, I meet
the principle and combat it. I object to it because it is dangerou.
and may be ruinous. It takes from the citizen his rights-rights
secured to him by the Constitution'; the trial by jury, in a court of
Z
VbL. IHI.-34

266

SUPREME COURT.
White v,.
Nicholl

et al.

.law. •Thnis is done by, the act of 1839, if.it be what it is now construed to be. In this aspect, then, I say, the act is unconstitutional
and void.' It not only strikes down the rights of the citizen, but it
inflicts a blow on the judicial power of the country. Itunites, in
the same department, the executive and judicial powef. And on a
subject the most delicate and interesting; and one which, of all
others, may most easil be converted into an engine of oppression.
In this government, balances and checks have been carefully adjusted, with a view to secure public and private rights; and any
departure from tis organization endangers all. We have less to
apprehend from a bold and open usurpation by one department of
the government, of powers which belong to another, than by a more
gradual and insidious course. In my judgment, no'principle can
.be more dangerous than the one mentioned in this case. It covers
from legal responsibility executive officers. In the performance of
their ministerial duties, however they may disregard and trample
upon the rights of the citizen, he can claim no indemnity by an
action at law. This doctrine has no standing in England. No
ministerial officer in that country is sheltered from legal responsibility. Shall we i1 this country be less jealous of private rights
and of 'the exercise of. power? Is it not our boast that the law is
paramount, and that all are subject to it, from the highest officei of
the country to its humblest citizen? But can this be the case if any
or every executive officer is clothed with the immunities of the
sovereignty? If he cannot be sued, what may he not do with impunity. I am sure that my brethren are as sincere as I am, in their
convictiofis of what the law is, in this case; and I have only to
regret, that their views do not coincide with those I have stated.

RoBEnf WHITE,

PLAiNIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM S. NIcHoLLs, WIL"ROBINSON, OTHO M. LiNTHiUSm, EDWARD.M.,LINTnIcum, RAPHAEL SEM1S, PA1VL STEVENS, AND CHARLES C. FULTON, DEFENDANTS
IN ERROR.
LU

ROBERT WHITE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. HENRY AbDISON, DEFENDANT
IN ERROR.

In an action for a libel it is not indispensable to use the word" maliciously" in the
declaration. It is sufficient if words of equivalent power or import are used.
Every publication, either by writing, printing, or pictures, which charges upon,
or imputes to, any lierson that which fenders him liable to punishment, or
which is calculated to make him infamous, or odious, or ridiculous, is prima
faie a libel, and implies malice in the author and publisher towards the person concerning whom such publication is made.
Proof of malice cannot, in these cases, be required of tne party complaining,

