HAINES ET AL. V. CARPENTER ET AL.

[Sup. t

enforcing his claim. In this case, so far as any thing appears
by the record, Wright neither contracted for nor received any
thing else than legitimate and honorable professional assistance. Such an agreement we held to be valid in Trist v. Child,
21 Wall. 450; for we then said, speaking through Mr. Justice
Swayne, "1We entertain no doubt . . . an agreement, express or implied, for purely professional services, is valid."
Such services, we say, "rest on the same principle of ethics as
professional services rendered in a court of justice, and are no
more exceptionable." In fact, the commission acting on this
claim was a quasi court. It was, in no material respect, for all
the purposes of the present controversy, different from the
"Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims," or the "Southern Claims Commission," or the "Mexican Claims Commission," or "Spanish Claims Commission," which have been
called together, in pursuance of treaty stipulations or otherwise, to settle and adjust disputed claims, for the purpose of
their ultimate payment and satisfaction. There is nothing
illegal, immoral, or against public policy, in a professional
engagement to present and prosecute such claims before such
tribunals.
3. In Wylie v. Coxe, 15 How. 415, we decided that an agreement to pay a reasonable percentage upon the amount of recovery was not an illegal contract. Here, after the service had
been rendered, and after, as was supposed, the claim had been
secured, Wright agreed to pay ten per cent of the amount
eventually realized as compensation for the labor done. We
see no reason to find fault with this; and the jury seem also to
have adopted this rule, which the parties established for themselves, as presenting the true criterion for estimating the reasonable value of the services rendered.
The judgment is affirmed.

HAIIEs ET AL. V. CARPENTER ET AL.
Except where otherwise provided by the Bankrupt Law, the courts of the
United States are expressly prohibited by sect. 720 of the Revised Statutes
from granting a writ of injunction to stay proceedings in a State court.

Oct. 1875.]

HAnxs ET AL. v. CAxpEN

ET AL.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Celia A. Groves of Madison Parish, Louisiana, by her will,
dated the 27th of January, 1872, among other things bequeathed
to the Baptist church in the city of Vicksburg, the plantation
on which she lived, except one hundred and fifty acres, which
were designated ; and expressed a desire that the church should
hold it, and not sell it, and that the proceeds should be employed
to educate young men for the ministry. She appointed her
brother-in-law, Charles Carpenter, her universal legatee and executor, giving him seizure of the estate to carry out the provisions of the will and the purposes of the trust. The will
was admitted to probate on the 16th of March, 1872, by the
parish judge; and Carpenter assumed the duties of executor,
and took possession of the estate.
The bill in this case was filed in September, 1872, by the
appellants, as Trustees of the Vicksburg Baptist Church of
Vicksburg in Mississippi, a body corporate of that State, alleging that said church was the one intended by the will, and
charging various matters of complaint upon which relief is
sought. The defendants are, first, the executor, Charles Carpenter; secondly, one Elias S. Dennis, who claims to have been
a partner of testatrix; thirdly, Mary Stout, Julia Trezevant,
and others, who claim to be the heirs of the testatrix; fourthly,
Richard H. Groves and others, who claim to be the heirs of
her deceased husband, George W. Groves; fifthly, John A.
Klein and others, legatees named in the will.
The bill states that Carpenter is unfit and incompetent to
manage and control the estate, and that he lets it ran to waste;
and asks that he be removed, and a receiver appointed.
It further states that Dennis has instituted a suit against the
executor in the Thirteenth District Court of Louisiana, claiming to have been a partner of testatrix, and that a large amount
is due him as such, with a view of absorbing the succession by
a judgment; and that the executor is colluding and combining
with him, and asks that they be enjoined from continuing such
combination.
It also states that Mary Stout, Julia Trezevant, and others,
claiming to be the testatrix's heirs, have instituted a suit in the

HAINES ET AL. V.

CARPENTER ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Parish Court of Madison Parish, alleging that the bequest to
the church is void, and praying that it may be declared void,
for various reasons, amongst others, as being uncertain, against
the laws of Louisiana, and attempting to establish a perpetuity;
and that the complainants answered the petition in said suit,
which is still pending.
And further, that Richard H. Groves and others, alleging
themselves to be the heirs of George W. Groves, the testatrix's
husband, have also commenced a suit in said Thirteenth District
Court, claiming that the property bequeathed belonged to him,
and that the will is null and void, and praying that it may be
declared void.
In view of these various proceedings, the bill claims that the
case presents a multiplicity of suits, sufficient to induce a court
of equity to interfere for the protection of the complainants.
It also alleges that full and adequate relief cannot be had unless
the Circuit Court take cognizance of all the questions presented
by said suits, and of the whole subject-matter of the succession,
and of all suits and litigations affecting it. It also alleges that
such local prejudices exist against the church, that it cannot
obtain justice in the State courts.
The bill prays that the executor may account for all moneys
received by him from the succession, and for a reference to a
master to ascertain and settle all claims against the estate, and
that a receiver may be appointed to take charge of the estate;
that the will may be declared valid; that the complainants
may be put into possession of the plantation ; that the executor
may be removed; and that an injunction may issue to enjoin
and restrain the defendants from further prosecuting the said
suits, or any other suits or litigation in the premises.
This bill was dismissed by the court below on demurrer; and
from that decree this appeal was taken.
Submitted on printed brief by iV?. Joseph Casey for the appellant, who cited Payne v. ifoole, 7 Wall. 425.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
A mere statement of the bill is sufficient to show that it cannot be sustained. Whilst it undoubtedly presents some matters
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

Oct. 1875.]

MdMURRAY ET AL. v. BROWN.

of equitable consideration, they are so mixed up with others of
a different character, or which cannot be entertained by the
Circuit Court of the United States, and which constitute the
main object and purpose of the suit, as to make the bill essentially bad on demurrer. In the first place, the great object of
the suit is to enjoin and stop litigation in the State courts, and
to bring all the litigated questions before the Circuit Court.
This is one of the things which the Federal courts are expressly
prohibited from doing. By the act of March 2, 1793, it was
declared that a writ of injunction shall not be granted to stay
proceedings in a State court. This prohibition is repeated in
sect. 720 of the Revised Statutes, and extends to all cases
except where otherwise provided by the Bankrupt Law. This
objection alone is sufficient ground for sustaining the demurrer
to the bill. In the next place, the claim that the court ought
to interfere on account of multiplicity of suits is manifestly
unfounded. Only three suits are specified for this purpose in
the bill, and each of these has a distinct object, founded on a
distinct ground, and is instituted by a distinct class of claimants, who had a perfect right to institute the suit they did.
The State courts have full and ample jurisdiction of the cases,
and no sufficient reason appears for interfering with their proMe decree of t7e Circuit Court is affirmed.
ceedings.

McMunnAY rc iAL. v. BnoviH.
Where a party furnished materials for the construction of a building, under an
agreement that the owner thereof, by way of payment for them, would convey
to him certain real estate at a stipulated price per foot, -Held, that on the
refusal of the owner so to convey, or in lieu thereof to pay for such materials,
the party is entitled to his lien, provided that in due time he gives the notice
required by law.
EAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action to enforce a mechanics' lien under sect. 1
of the act of Congress approved Feb. 2, 1859, 11 Stat. 376,
which provides, "That any person who shall hereafter, by
virtue of any contract with the owner of any building, or with
A

VOL. 1.

17

