Oct. 1875.]

UNIoN PAcmc R.R. Co. v. HAmL

aA.

343

UNION PA=c Ic RAMRaOAD COMPANY v. HALTX ET AL.
1. The initial point of the Iowa branch of the Union Pacific Railroad was fixed

by the act of Congress of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 489), on the Iowa bank of
the Missouri River.
2. The order of the President of the United States, bearing date the seventh day

of March, 1864, established and designated in strict conformity to law the
eastern terminus of said branch at a point "on the western boundary of

Iowa east of and opposite to the east line of section 10, in township 15,
north of range 18, east of the 6th principal meridian, in the Territory of

Nebraska."
3. The bridge constructed by the Union Pacific Railroad Company over the
Missouri River, between Omaha in Nebraska and Council Bluffs in Iowa,
is a part of the railroad. The company was authorized to build it only for
the uses of the road, and is bound to operate and run the whole road, including the bridge, as one connected and continuous line.
4. Private persons may, without the intervention of the government law-officer,
move for a mandamus to enforce a public duty not due to the government
as such.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
Submitted on brief by Mr. A. J: Poppleton for the plaintiff
in error, and by .31r. John . 1ogers, contra.

MI. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a proceeding instituted under the act of Congress of
March 3, 1873 (17 Stat. 509, sect. 4), which confers upon the
proper Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction to hear
and determine *all cases of mandamus to compel the Union
Pacific Railroad Company to operate its road as required by
law. The alternative writ, as amended, commanded the railroad company to operate the whole of their road from Council
Bluffs westward (including that portion thereof between Council Bluffs and Omaha, and constructed over and across their
bridge spanning the Missouri River) as one continuous line for
all purposes of communication, travel, and transportation; and
especially commanded them to staxt from Council Bluffs their
regular through freight and passsenger trains westward bound,
and to run their eastern-bound trains of both descriptions
through and over said bridge to Council Bluffs under one uniform time-schedule with the remainder of their road, and to

344

UNION PACIFIC R.R. Co. v. HALL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

desist and refrain wholly from operating said last-mentioned
portion of said road as an independent and separate line, and
from causing freight or passengers bound westward or eastward
to be transferred at Omaha, or to show cause why they did not
obey the writ.
To the alternative mandamus the railroad company put in a
return, which was met by an answer filed by the relators; and
the case was heard by the Circuit Court on the facts stated in
the writ, the return, and the answer (the averments of the
answer not being controverted), and a peremptory mandamus
was ordered. It is of this final judgment that the plaintiffs in
error now complain.
The obligation of the Union Pacific Railroad Company to
operate their road as a continuous line, throughout its entire
length, is not denied. The company is a creature of congressional legislation. It was incorporated by the act of Congress
of July 1, 1862 (12 Stat. 489); and its powers and duties were
prescribed by that act, and others amendatory thereof. By the
twelfth section it was enacted that the "whole line of the railroad
and branches and telegraph shall be operated and used for all
purposes of communication, travel, and transportation, so far
as the public and government are concerned, as one connected,
A similar requisition was made in the fifcontinuous line."
teenth section of the amendatory act of July 2, 1864. 13 Stat.
356. The contest in the case does not relate to the existence
of this duty: it is principally over the question, whether the
railroad bridge over the Missouri River, between Omaha in
Nebraska and Council Bluffs in Iowa, is a part of the Union
Pacific Railroad; for, if it is, there can be no doubt that the
company are required by law to use it in connection with, and
as a part of, their entire road, operating all parts together as a
continuous line.
The answer to this question must be found in the legislation
of Congress, and in what has been done under it. By the first
section of the act of 1862, the Union Pacific Railroad Company
was authorized to construct, maintain, and enjoy a continuous
railroad and telegraph, with the appurtenances, from a point on
the one hundredth meridian of longitude west from Greenwich
to the western boundary of the Territory of Nevada. There it

Oct. 1875.]

UmioN PACi

ic R.R. Co. v. HALL

AL,.

845

was intended to meet and connect with the line of the Central
Pacific Railroad Company of California (sect. 8), thus forming a
continuous line to the Pacific Ocean. This was the main line.
But the same act made provision also for several eastern connections. The ninth section authorized the Leavenworth,
Pawnee and Western Railroad Company of Kansas (now the
Kansas Pacific) to construct a railroad from the Missouri
River, at the mouth of the Kansas River (on the south side
thereof, so as to connect with the Pacific Railroad of Missouri),
to the point of western departure of the Union Pacific on the
one hundredth meridian. Thus provision was made for an eastern connection by an unbroken line of road to St. Louis on the
Mississippi. This was not all. By the fourteenth section of the
act the Union Pacific was authorized and required "to construct
a single line of railroad and telegraph from a point on the
western boundary of the State of Iowa, to be fixed by the President of the United States, . . . so as to form a connection

with the lines of the said company at some point on the one
hundredth meridian of longitude aforesaid, from the point of
commencement on the western boundary of the State of Iowa."
Thus provisions were made for the Iowa eastern branch of the
main line. It was doubtless intended to render possible a connection with any railroad that might thereafter be constructed
from the western boundary of Iowa eastward. None was then
completed; but a railroad was in progress of construction through
the State, from its eastern border to the Missouri River.
The fourteenth section also made provision for another eastern
connection. It enacted, that whenever there should be a line
of railroad completed through Minnesota or Iowa to Sioux City,
then the said Pacific (Union Pacific) Railroad Company should
be authorized and required to construct a railroad and telegraph
from said Sioux City, so as to connect with the Iowa branch, or
with the main line, at a point not farther west than the one
hundredth meridian of longitude.
The scheme of the act of Congress, then, is very apparent.
It was to secure the' connection of the main line, by at least
three branches, with the Missouri and Iowa Railroads, and
with a railroad running eastwardly from Sioux City in Iowa,
either through that State or through Minnesota. An obserr-

846

UNION PACIFIC

R.R. 0. V.

HALL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

ance of this scheme, we think, will aid in considering the
inquiry at what place the act of Congress, and the orders of
the President made in pursuance thereof, established the eastern terminus of the Iowa branch. From it may reasonably be
inferred that the purpose of Congress was to provide for connections of the branches of the main line of the Union Pacific
road with railroads running through the States on the east of
the Territory, and to provide for those connections within those
States, at points at or near their western boundaries. Thus
the northern branch was required to be constructed from Sioux
City (which is in the State of Iowa) westward toward the main
line; and the southern branch was authorized to build their
railroad from the south side of the Kansas River, at its mouth, so
as to connect with the Pacifib Railroad of Missouri. If, now, the
provisions of the act respecting the central or Iowa branch be
examined, the same purpose is evident. Those provisions are
found in the fourteenth section, and they are as follows: "And be it further enacted, That the said Union lhcific Railroad
Company is hereby authorized and required to construct a single
line of railroad and telegraph from a point on the western boundary
of the State of Iowa, to be fixed by the President of the United
States, upon the most direct and practicable route, to be subject to
his approval, so as to form a connection with the lines of the said
company at some point on the one hundredth meridian of longitude
aforesaid, from the point of commencement on the western boundary
of the State of Iowa."
This clause contains the only provisions of the act respecting
the eastern terminus of the Iowa branch, and it twice defines
that terminus as "a point on the western boundary of the State
of Iowa." The legal boundary of the State is the middle of
the channel of the Mlissouri River. 9 Stat. 52. But it is very
evident that Congress did not intend that the road should start
from a point in the mid-channel of the river. That would be
impossible; and, were it possible, it would not carry out the
general design of the act, which, as we have seen, was to provide for connections with the eastern railroads then in existence or contemplated. It is conceded by the counsel of the
company that Congress ought not to be held to have intended
to fix the initial point in the mid-channel of the river, exactly

Oct. 1875.]

UNION PAcIFIc R.R. Co. v. HALL E

AL.

847

on the line which is the legal boundary of the State. Such a
construction of the law, it is acknowledged, would be unreasonable, because it would involve the requirement of an impossibility. But, if Congress did not mean to require a construction
of the railroad from the imaginary line which is the legal
boundary of Iowa, - namely, from the mid-channel of the river,
-they must have intended the initial point to be either on the
Iowa shore or on the Nebraska shore. If the Nebraska shore
was intended, why was it not mentioned ? Why was not the
west bank of the Missouri River designated? or why was not
the eastern boundary of Nebraska fixed as the point of departure ? Still more, why was Iowa mentioned at all? or why was
the initial point described as a point on the western boundary
of Iowa? It is impossible to give a satisfactory answer to these
questions, if the eastern or Iowa shore of the river was not
intended to be the terminus of the railroad. Unless it was so
intended, no reason is found in the acts of Congress for mentioning Iowa at all. The western shore of the river is no nearer
the western legal boundary of Iowa than the eastern shore is;
while the latter is, in common understanding, the western
boundary of the State. Congress may well be supposed to have
used language in accordance with the common understanding.
It is common usage to speak of the boundary of a state or
county as a river, though the legal boundary may be the middle
of the river; and particularly when any thing is to be constructed on such a boundary, which from its nature must be
constructed on dry land, would no one understand the place of
construction as any other than the shore of the river. It is
perfectly legitimate and in accordance with every-day usage to
say that a house built in Illinois on the eastern shore of the
Mississippi stands on the western boundary of the State, though
the legal boundary of the State is the mid-channel of the river.
In common understanding, therefore, a point on the western
boundary of Iowa would be a point in Iowa on the eastern shoie
of the Missouri, precisely as a point on the eastern boundary of
Nebraska would be understood to be in Nebraska, on the western shore of the river. The words "on the boundary of Iowa"
are not technical words; and therefore they are to be taken as
having been used by Congress in their ordinary signification.

348

UNION PACIFIc R.R. Co. v. IIALL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Instances are not rare inwhich statutes have been construed,
not literally, but in accordance with the common use of the
language employed by the law-makers. Authority to construct
a railroad or turnpike from A. to B., or beginning at A. and
running to B., is held to confer authority to commence the road
at some point within A., and to end it at some point within B.
The words "from," " to," and "at," are taken inclusively, according to the subject-matter. 1 Mas. 126; 1 Stra. 179; Farmers' Turnpike v. Coventry, 10 Johns. 389. So in the case of
The Illfohawk Bridge Company v. The Utica and Schenectady
_-.R. Co., 6 Paige, 554, a similar ruling was made. The city
of Schenectady was on the south bank of the Mohawk River,
the north bounds of the city being the middle of the channel of
the river; yet it was held that a railroad company authorized
to build a railroad "commencing at or near the city of Schenectady, and running thence on the north side of the Mohawk
River," was by those words empowered to build a bridge over
the Mohawk, and commence their railroad at or within the
city. These decisions bear some analogy to the construction
given by the Circuit Court to the phrase "on the western
boundary of Iowa;" and that construction is the only one
consistent with the paramount purpose manifested in the act
of Congress, to provide for connections with the railroads of
the States east of Nebraska Territory, - a purpose to which we
have already referred. Unless the Iowa branch of the Union
Pacific was intended to commence on the Iowa shore of the
PMissouri River, its connection with the Iowa railroads would
have been impossible. Those roads could not be extended to
the Nebraska shore; for the State of Iowa was without power
to authorize the erection of a bridge over the river, or even the
establishment of a ferry. We do not propose to enter upon a
consideration of the question, whether Congress had power to
authorize the construction of railroads within a State: it is
not necessary for the present case. Even the appellants would
shrink from denying the lawful existence of their bridge.
What is to be sought now is the intention of Congress, not its
power. Did Congress intend the place of connection to be on
the eastern shore of the river? That they'did is manifest,
if they intended any connection; for no other was possible,
eihtler with or without the co-operation of Iowa.

Oct. 1875.]

UNION PACIFI

R.R. Co. v. HAT

L

AL.

349

In accordance with this understanding of the 'act of 1862 was
the action of the President. The fourteenth section of the act
required the company to construct the Iowa branch from a
point on the western boundary of Iowa, to be fixed by the
President of the United States. In discharging the duty thus
imposed, the President, by an executive order, dated Nov. 17,
1863, fixed so much of the western boundary of the State of
Iowa as lies between the north and south boundaries of the
United States township within which the city of Omaha is
situated as the point from which the line of railroad and telegraph should be constructed. This designation was, in one particular, indefinite. While it adhered to the western boundary
of Iowa, it left undetermined at what place on that boundary
the initial point should be, except that it should be somewhere
between the north and south boundaries of a township, those
boundaries being six miles apart. The President, therefore, on
the seventh day of March, 1864, by a second executive order,
made a more definite location. By that order he designated
and established the point from which the railroad company was
authorized to construct the road as a point " on the western
boundary of Iowa east of and opposite to the east line of section
10, in township 15, north of range 13, east of the 6th principal
meridian, in the Territory of Nebraska." Section 10 is a fractional section, its eastern boundary being the Missouri River.
That the President understood this designation as fixing the point
on the eastern shore of the river, and within the State of Iowa,
is manifest from the message which, two days afterwards, he
sent to Congress accompanying a copy of his official orders, in
which he declared that the orders fixed the point on the western
boundary of Iowa, "within the limits of the township in Iowa
opposite the town of Omaha, in Nebraska." And such appears
to be the plain meaning of the executive orders. The point
could not have been "east of and opposite to the east line of
section 10, in township 15" (the section spoken of), if it was
on the western shore of the river. It would then have been in
Nebraska. The designation by the President was thus in strict
conformity with the act of Congress; for, whenever that act
spoke of the terminus of the Iowa branch with reference to its
location, it described it, not as being in Nebraska, not even as

350

UNION PAciric

R.R. CO. v. HALL ET AL.

[Sup. Of.

being in the Missouri River, but as on the western boundary of
Iowa.
Thus far we have confined our attention to the act of 1862,
and to the President's action under it. From that act alone
we have deduced the conclusion that the company was authorized and required to build their railroad to the Iowa shore.
That authority included within itself power to build a bridge
over the Missouri. No express grant to bridge the river was
needed. Whatever bridges were necessary on their line were
as fully authorized as the line itself; and the company were as
much empowered to build one across the Missouri as they were
across the Platte or any other river intersecting the route of
their road. People v. The Saratoga J- Rensselaer R.R. Co.,
15 Wend. 130; Springfield v. Connecticut River R.R. Co.,
4 Cush. 63; iTohawk Bridge Co. v. Utica & Schenectady
R.R. Co., ut supra.
But the amendatory act of 1864 is not to be overlooked. It
is to be regarded in connection with the act of 1862, and interpreted as a part of it. By its ninth section the company were
expressly authorized to construct bridges over the Missouri,
and other rivers which their road might pass in its course, for
the convenience of their road; and the act declared this authority to be given to enable the company to make convenient
and necessary connections with other roads. This enactment
may not have been necessary. The power may have been conferred upon the Union Pacific Railroad Company by the act of
1862; and we think it was. But, whether necessary or not, it
shows clearly that Congress had in view the construction of the
railroad to the Iowa shore of the river. No bridge could be
constructed without making use of the Iowa shore.
It is well to observe here that the authority was given to the
company as a railroad company, and not as a bridge company.
The bridge was for the convenience of their road, and to enable
them to connect it with other roads. They could build it for
no other uses. They were not authorized to use it for other
purposes than those of their road. They were not allowed to
charge rates of toll which they did not charge upon other portions of their line. If they acquired such a right, it was by
subsequent legislation,- by the act of 1871, to which we shall

Oct. 1875.]

Uiox Picmic R.R. Co. v. HLL

ET AL.

851

refer hereafter; but if, under the acts of 1862 and 1864, the
company were authorized to build a railroad bridge across the
liver, and if such bridge was a part of their road, and not
another railroad, the conclusion is irresistible that their road
was intended to have its eastern terminus on the Iowa shore of
the river.
It is no answer to this to urge that Congress could not have
intended to invade a State by chartering a company to build a
railroad in part within the State limits. The stubborn fact remains, that Congress did authorize the building of a railroad
bridge on land within the territorial limits of the State, and, as
necessarily incidental to that, a railroad upon the necessary
approaches to the bridge. So, also, Congress authorized building a railroad from Sioux City, in Iowa, across the Missouri
River westward. The statute does show a plain intention
that the company's railroad should enter the State under its
authority; and the twelfth section enacted what should be done
whenever the route of the road should cross the boundary of any
)tate or Territory, and authorizes the President of the United
States, in case the companies met there and disagreed respecting the location, to determine it.
Our attention has been called to other clauses in the acts of
1862 and 1864, in which the road is spoken of as from the Mi.souli River to the Pacific coast, or to the navigable waters of
the Sacramento, or from Omaha, as indicating that the eastern
terminus was intended to be Omaha, or the western shore of
the Missouri River. But these clauses have other objects in
view than designating the terminus of the road. They are
descriptive of the road, but not of its beginning or ending.
*Whenever the atteition of Congress was turned to the eastern
terminus alone, and the purpose was to determine its location,
there is no variance in the language employed. It is always
"a point on the western boundary of Iowa." The differen L
forms of expression employed in other sections and for other
purposes can have no bearing upon the question.
Again: it is claimed that the contemporaneous construction
given to the charter of the company, by its officers and by the
officers of the government, tends to show that the terminus
was fixed by the statute on the Nebraska side of the river. It

352

UNION PACIFIC R.R. CO. V. HALL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

must be conceded, that, in a case where the interpretation of an
instrument is doubtful, the practical construction given to it by
the parties is of weight. But we do not discover that the
United States government, or its officers, ever acted upon the
theory that the eastern terminus of the road was on the western
shore of the river. The officers of the company asserted it for
a time, it is true, but not in their practical intercourse with the
national government. Indeed, it never became a practical
question until the bridge was erected; and from that time to
the present the government has asserted that the true terminus
of the road was fixed on the Iowa shore. There is nothing,
we think, in any contemporaneous construction given to the
acts of Congress, which ought to have any weight in determining the question now before us.
Our conclusion, therefore, is, that the initial point of the
Iowa branch of the Union Pacific Railroad was fixed by the act
of Congress on the Iowa bank of the Missouri River.
If we are correct in this conclusion, it seems to be clear that
the bridge over the river, built by the railroad company, is
a part of their railroad, and required by law to be so operated. It was commenced in 1869 under the acts of 1862
and 1864. These acts were the only authority the company
had at the time of its commencement for building it. It is a
railroad bridge, a continuation of the line west of the river; and
it connects the road with its required eastern terminus. The
acts chartering the company manifest no intention to distinguish between the bridge over the Missouri River and other
bridges on the line of their road. If it is not a part of their
road, neither is any bridge between the Missouri and the western
boundary of Nevada; for the power to build all bridges was
given in the same words.
It has been argued, however, that the bridge is not a part of the
company's railroad, because it is not located opposite section 10,
east of and opposite to which, on the western boundary of Iowa,
the President fixed the terminus. It is, however, the only
bridge the company has extending their road to the western
boundary of Iowa; and clearly they have no authority to build
any other. True, it is not opposite section 10; but the company has taken up its road from that section, and now it comes

Oct. 1875.]

UNION PAc=c

R.R. Co. v.

HALL ET AL.

353

to the river where the bridge is actually constructed. Having
abandoned their road, so far as it extended above that point;
having commenced their bridge where it is; having applied to
Congress for power to mortgage it, and for special power to levy
tolls and charges for the use of it; and having obtained those
powers, -they are not at liberty now to assert that they have
located their bridge at the wrong place. There is nothing,
either in the act of 1862 or 1864, or in that of Feb. 24,
1871, which empowers them to build more than one bridge over
the Missouri for the Iowa branch; and the latter act contains
an implied recognition of their right under the former acts to
build their bridge on its present location. There is no intimation in it of a distinct bridge franchise. It grants no power to
build a bridge. Its main purpose manifestly was to give the
company additional means and privileges for the completion of
a structure already authorized, not to enable them to construct
a new and independent road. To hold that the bridge is not a
part of the road would defeat the plain object Congress had in
view in 1862 and 1864, - a continuous line for connection with
the Iowa roads. It would be allowing the connection to be
made in Nebraska, instead of on the western boundary of Iowa,
when the act of 1871 expressly declared that nothing therein
should be so construed as to change the eastern terminus of the
Union Pacific Railroad from the place where it was then fixed
by existing laws. Indeed, that proviso was quite unnecessary
if the bridge was not thought to be a part of the railroad connecting the other part with the western boundary of Iowa.
Holding then, as we do, that the legal terminus of the railroad is fixed by law on the Iowa shore of the river, and that the
bridge is a part of the railroad, there can be no doubt that the
company is under obligation to operate and run the whole road,
including the bridge, as one connected and continuous line.
This is a duty expressly imposed by the acts of 1862 and 1864,
and recognized by that of 1871. What this means it is not
difficult to understand. It is a requisition made for the convenience of the public. An arrangement, such as the company
has made, by which freight and passengers destined for or
beyond the eastern terminus are stopped two or three miles
from it and transferred to another train, and again transferred
VOL. 1.

23

854

UNION PACIFIC

R.R. Co. v.

HALL

T AL.

[Sup. Ct.

at the terminus, or by which freight and passengers going west
from the eastern end of the line must be transferred at Omaha,
breaks the road into two lines, and plainly is inconsistent with
continuous operation of it as a whole. If not, the injunction of
the statute has no meaning. The mandamus awarded in this
case, therefore, imposes no duty beyond what the law requires.
Such is our opinion of the merits of this case. A single objection made and urged against the form of proceeding remains
to be considered. The appellants contend that the court erred
in holding that Hall and Morse, on whose petition the alternative
writ was issued, could lawfully become relators in this suit on
behalf of the public without the assent or direction of the
Attorney-General of the United States, or of the district attorney for the district of Iowa. They were merchants in Iowa,
having frequent occasion to receive and ship goods over the
company's road; but they had no interest other than such as
belonged to others engaged in employments like theirs, and the
duty they seek to enforce by the writ is a duty to the public
generally. The question raised by the objection, therefore, is,
whether a writ of mandamus to compel the performance of a
public duty may be issued at the instance of a private relator.
Clearly in England it may. Tapping on Mandamus, p. 28,
asserts the rule in that country to be, that, "in general, all those
who are legally capable of bringing an action are also equally
capable of applying to the Court of King's Bench for the writ
of mandamus." This is true in all cases, it is believed, where
the defendant owes a duty, in the performance of which the
prosecutor has a peculiar interest; and it is equally true, we
think, in case of applications to compel the performance of
duties to the public by corporations. In Te King v. Te
Severn & Wiye Railway Co., 2 Barn. & Ad. 646, a private individual, without any allegation of special injury to himself,
obtained a rule upon the company to show cause why a mandamus should not issue commanding them to lay down again
and maintain part of a railway which they had taken up.
Under an act of Parliament, the railway was a public highway;
and all persons were at liberty to pass and repass thereon, with
wagons and other carriages, upon payment of the rates. What
the prosecutor complained of was the loss by the public, and

Oct. 1875.]

UNION PAO=BFO R.R. Co. v. HALL T AL.

855

particularly by the owners of certain collieries (of which he
does not appear to have been one), of the benefit of using the
railway taken tip. The writ was awarded. It was not even
claimed that the intervention of the Attorney-General was
needed. Other cases to the same effect are numerous. Clarke
v T/e Leicestershire & Northamptonshire Union Canal Co.,
( Ad. & El. ff. s. 898; 1 Chit. 700.
In this country there has been diversity of decision upon the
question whether private persons can sue out the writ to enforce the performance of a public duty, unless the non-performance of it works to them a special injury; and in several of the
States it has been decided that they cannot. An application
for a mandamus, not here a prerogative writ, has been supposed to have some analogy to a bill in equity for the restraint
of a public nuisance. Yet, even in the supposed analogous
case, a bill may be sustained to enjoin the obstruction of a
public highway, when the injury complained of is common to
the public at large, and only greater in degree to the complainants. It was in the Wheeling Bridge Case, 18 How. 518,
where the wrong complained of was a public wrong, an obstruction to all navigation of the Ohio River.
The injury to the complainants in that case was no more
peculiar to Pennsylvania than is the injury to Hall and Morse
in this peculiar and special to them.
There is, we think, a decided preponderance of American
authority in favor of the doctrine, that private persons may
move for a mandamus to enforce a public duty, not due to the
government as such, without the intervention of the government law-officer. People v. Collins, 19 Wend, 56; County of
Pike v. The State, 11 M1.202; Ottawa v. The People, 48 id. 283;
H amilton v. The State, 8 Ind. 452; Hall v, The People, 57 N. Y.
807; People v. Halsey, 87 id. 844; State v. The County Judge
of Marshall, 7 Iowa, 186; State v. Bailway, 83 N. J. Law, 110;
Watts v. CarrollParish,11 La. Ann. 141. See also Dillon on
Mun. Corp., sect. 695, and High on Ex. Rem., sects. 431, 482;
Cannon v. Janvier, 8 Houst. 27; State v. _ahway, 83 N,. J.
Law, 110. The principal reasons urged against the doctrine
are, that the writ is prerogative in its nature, - a reason which
is of no force in this country, and no longer in England, -and

AmORY V. AmiORY ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

that it exposes a defendant to be harassed with many suits. An
answer to the latter objection is, that granting the writ is discretionary with the court, and it may well be assumed that it
will not be unnecessarily granted.
There is also, perhaps, a reasonable implication that Congress,
when they authorized writs of mandamus to compel the Union
IDacific Railroad Company to operate their road according to
w, did not contemplate the intervention of the Attorney,neral in all cases. The act of 1873 does not prescribe who
shall move for the writ, while the Attorney-General is expressly
directed to institute the necessary proceedings to secure the performance of other duties of the company. For these reasons,
-we think the Circuit Court did not err in holding that Hall and
Morse were competent to apply for the writ in this case.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissenting.
I am obliged to dissent from the judgment of the court in
this case. The Missouri River is, by common acceptation, the
western boundary of Iowa; and the fair construction of the
charter of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, which adopts
that boundary as its eastern terminus, is, that the road was to
extend from the Missouri River westwardly. The subsequent
express authority given to construct a bridge across the river,
in my judgment, confirms this view of the subject; and as a
mandamus is a severe remedy, requiring a clear right and clear
duty to support it, I think it ought not to be granted in this
case, especially as it requires the company to use the bridge as
a part of their continuous line with all their trains, which may
impose much inconvenience on them, without corresponding
benefit to the public.

AmORY v. AmORY ET AL.
1. A cause will not, on the ground that it has no merits, be advanced for argament; nor will it be dismissed on motion simply because the court may be
of opinion that it has been brought here for delay only.
2. The court will not hesitate to exercise its power to adjudge damages where it
finds that its jurisdiction has been invoked merely to gain time.

