BUTTERFIELD V. USHER.

[Sup. Ct.

So on an application by a wife for alimony, pending a
divorce suit prosecuted against her, the fact that her husband
has recovered a verdict against a third person for criminal connection with her has been held not to be even presumptive
evidence of her guilt. Williams v. Williams, 8 Barb. Ch. 628.
Authorities of this nature might be greatly extended. Enough
has been said to demonstrate that neither upon principle nor
authority was it proper, in the individual suit of Mrs. Tisdale
against a stranger, to admit letters of administration upon th6
estate of her husband as evidence of his death.
The judgment must be reversed, and a new trial had.

BUTTERFIELD v. USHER.
Where the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, at the general term
thereof, rendered a decree vacating and setting aside a judicial sale of lands
which had been confirmed by an order of the special term of said court, and
directing a resale of them, - Held, that the decree was not final, and that no
appeal would lie therefrom to this court.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the 7th June, 1872, a decree was rendered by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in a suit in equity
between Horace S. Johnston, plaintiff, and George Usher, defendant, directing a sale of certain lands, the property of Usher.
In pursuance of this decree, a sale of the property was made
to John W. Butterfield on the 30th of September. This sale
was reported to the court Oct. 16; and on the 15th November an order of confirmation was entered, unless cause to the
contrary should be shown on or before Dec. 10. Cause was
not shown by the time limited; and thereupon, on the 12th
December, Butterfield paid the amount of his bid to the trustee who made the sale, and received from him a deed of the
property. Previous to this time, there had been no order of
the court directing a conveyance; but on that day the trustee
reported to the court that he had received the purchase-money,
and executed the deed; and thereupon an order was entered,

Oct. 1875.]

BUTTmFImLD V. UsER.

ratifying and confirming the sale and approving the deed. This
deed was left for record in the land records of the District on
the day of its execution.
On the 14th December, and during the same term of the
court, the order of Dec. 12 was set aside on the petition of
Usher, and leave granted him until Dee. 21 to show cause
against the confirmation. At the appointed time he did appear, and made his showing; but on the 25th January an
order of confirmation was again entered. From this order
Usher appealed to the general term, where, on the 7th June,
the following decree was entered: "Upon the offer of the defendant making an advance on the sale
heretofore made, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court,
this seventh day of June, A. D. 1873, that the sale heretofore made
in this cause by Francis Miller, Esq., trustee, be, and the same is
hereby, vacated and set aside. And it is further ordered that the
said trustee may proceed to advertise and resell the property, and
that the expenses of the cause heretofore incurred may be paid out
of the proceeds to be realized from the sale hereby directed to be
made. And it is further ordered that the money in the hands of
the trustee be paid back to the purchaser, with interest thereon at
the rate of ten per cent per annum, to be paid by the defendant
Usher, and to be deducted by the trustee from the proceeds to
come into his hands from the further sale hereby ordered. And it
is further ordered that the trustee, in reselling the property, put up
the same at a price not lower than the sum realized at the former
sale, together with the sum of five hundred dollars advance offered
by George W. Hauptman."
From this decree Butterfield has taken this appeal. He
alone appears as appellant, and Usher alone as appellee.
An appeal lies to this court from the final decree of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in any case where
the matter in dispute exceeds the sum of one thousand dollars.
1I-v. Stat. sect. 705.
"In case of the sale of things, real or personal, under a decree in
equity, the decree confirming the sale shall divest the right, title, or
interest sold, out of the former owner, party to the suit, and vest it
in the purchaser, without any conveyance by the officer or agent of
the court conducting the sale; and the decree shall be notice to all
the world of this transfer of title when a copy thereof shall be regis-

BMIEIERFIELD V.

UTSHER.

[Sup. Ot.

tered among the land records of the district; but the court may,
nevertheless, order its officer or agent to make a conveyance, if that
mode be deemed preferable in particular cases." Rev. Stat. relating
to the Dist. of Col., sect. 793.
3ifr. Enoch Totten for the appellant, and Mr. Bic1hard T.
Merrick for the appellee.
MR. CmrE JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The decree here appealed from disposed finally of a motion
made in the case, but not of the case itself. It simply set aside
one sale that had been made, and ordered another. A decree
confirming the sale would have been final. But this decree is
analogous to a judgment of reversal with directions for a new
trial or a new hearing, which, as has been often held, is not
final. Where the practice allows appeals from interlocutory
decrees, an appeal might lie from such a decree as this. Such
was the practice in New York. 2 Rev. Stat. (N. Y.) 605, sects.
78, 79; id. 178, sects. 59, 62. Consequently it was said, in
Delaplaine v. Lawrence, 10 Paige, 604, "In sales by masters,
under decrees and orders of this court, the purchasers who have
bid off the property and paid their deposits in good faith are
considered as having inchoate rights, which entitle them to a
hearing upon the question whether the sales shall be set aside;
and, if the court errs by setting aside the sale improperly, they
have the right to carry the question by appeal to a higher
tribunal." But our jurisdiction upon appeal is statutory only.
If some act of Congress does not authorize a case to be brought
here, we cannot take jurisdiction. Appeals cannot be taken
to this court from the Supreme Court of the District, except
after a final decree in the case by that court. The decree
in this case not being final, we have no jurisdiction.
We do not wish to be understood as holding that a purchaser
at a sale under a decree in equity may not, at a proper stage of
the case, appeal from a decree affecting his interests. All we
do decide is, that there cannot be such an appeal to this court
until the proceedings for the sale under the original decree are
ended.
In Blossom v. B.B. Co., 1 Wall. 655, and 3 id. 196, we en-

Oct. 1875.]

MLLER
]
ET AL. V. EnEIMS.

tertained such an appeal; but the .decree there appealed from
was final. There was no order to resell, for the reason, that,
between the time of Blossom's bid and the time of the order
of the court appealed from, the decree for the satisfaction of
which the sale had been ordered was paid. The decree against
Blossom, therefore, was the last which the court could make
in the case. It ended the proceedings, and dismissed the parties from further attendance upon the court for any purpose
connected with that action.
This appear is, thierefore, dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

M~ffrat ET AL.

v.

EBmERSs.

Where the court below rendered judgment upon a finding, and at the next term,
in the absence of any special circumstances in the case, and without the consent of parties or any previous order on the subject, allowed and signed a
bill of exceptions, and directed it to be filed as of the date of the trial, Held, that the bill, although returned with the record, cannot be considered
here as a part thereof.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The parties to this suit, by stipulation in writing filed with
the clerk, waived a jury, and submitted to a trial by the court,
which was had at the October Term, A. D. 1872, when the case
was taken under advisement. At the next term, and on the
28th April, 1873, the court found generally for the plaintiff:
whereupon defendants moved for a new trial. This motion
was continued until the next term; when, on the 15th July,
it was overruled, and judgment entered on the finding.
On the 25th July, 1873, this writ of error, returnable on the
second Monday of October then next ensuing, was sued out and
served, and on the same day a supersedeas bond was approved
and filed. The citation was filed Aug. 4, 1873.
Down to this date, as appears by the record, a bill of exceptions had not been signed or allowed, nor time given, either by
consent of the parties or by order of the court, to prepare one.
In this condition of the case, the court adjourned for the term.

