Oct;. 18T5.]

SPENCER V. UNITED STATES.

The truth is, that, in the nature of things, a metal and its
oxide or sulphate are totally distinct and unlike. Any substance subjected to a chemical change by uniting with another
substance loses its identity: it becomes a different mineral
species. The basis of common clay is the metal aluminium,
and the basis of lime is the metal calcium. But no one would
think of calling clay and lime metals; nor, if artificially made,
would he call them manufactures of metals. They have lost
all their metallic qualities. In just the same manner, iron ceases
to be iron when it becomes rust, which is oxide of iron; or when
it becomes copperas, which is sulphate of iron. None would
think of calling blue vitriol copper. So white lead, nitrate of
lead, oxide of zinc, and dry or orange mineral, are not metals:
they have no metallic qualities. In the poverty of language,
they have no distinct names, it is true, as lime and clay and
vitriol have; but each is designated by a scientific periphrasis,
in which the name of the metal which forms one of its chemical
elements is used. This use of the name has probably been one
cause of the confusion which has arisen on the subject.
Judgment affirmed.

SPEXCER V. UMTED STA.TES.
No suit can be maintained against the United States under the Abandoned and
Captured Property Act (12 Stat. 820), if the property in question was neither
captured, seized, nor sold pursuant to its provisions, and the proceeds were
not paid into the treasury.

APPEAi from the Court of Claims.
This cause was argued by Mfr. Joseph Casey for the appellant,
and by Mr. Assistant Attorney-General -Edwin B. Smith for
the appellee.
MR. CH=_F JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In this case, the Court of Claims has certified here, in answer
to inquiries from us, (1) that the cotton in question did not
come into the hands of any agent of the United States as
abandoned or captured property, and was not sold as such;
VOL. I.

37

MCMIANUS V.

O'SULLIVAN ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

and (2) that the proceeds of the sale were not paid into the
treasury of the United States.
Upon this state of facts, the judgment of the court below was
clearly right. It is certain that no suit can be maintained
against the United States under the Abandoned and Captured
Property Act, if the property has neither been captured, seized,
nor sold pursuant to its provisions, and the proceeds are not in
the treasury.
Judgment affirmed.

MCMA-us v. O'SULrVAN ET A.
0
This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court where
a Federal question was not in fact passed upon, and where a decision of it
was rendered unnecessary in the view which tie court below took of the
case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
Submitted by Xr. Calhoun Benham for plaintiff, and by Mr.
John 3. Coghlan and 1M1r. William Irvine for defendants.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Terence B. McManus, under whom the plaintiff claims,
entered into the possession of the premises in controversy in
1854, or thereabouts. He continued his possession until his
death in 1861, at or about which time the defendants entered and
held adversely to his estate until the commencement of this
action in August, 1867.
When McManus entered, and during all the time he was in
possession, the city of San Francisco was asserting title to the
property, under a Mexican pueblo right, before the commissioners appointed under the act of Congress providing for the settlement of private land-claims in California, and before the courts
upon appeal. A decree was rendered in favor of the city by
the Circuit Court of the United States, May 18, 1865. From
this decree an appeal was taken to this court; pending which an
act was passed, March 8, 1866, entitled "An Act to quiet the
title to certain lands within the corporate limits of the city of
San Francisco." 14 Stat. 4. Upon the passage of this act, the
appeal was dismissed.

