Oct. 1875.]

LLOYD ET AL.

v. FULTON.

court to intervene by petition and summary proceedings to
obtain a delivery of the moneys to which they are entitled. The
forty-third admiralty rule recognizes this right; and in cases
without number the right has been enforced. The power of the
court over moneys belonging to its registry continues until they
are distributed pursuant to final decrees in the cases in which
the moneys are paid. If from any cause they are previously
withdrawn from the registry without authority of law, the
court can, by summary proceedings, compel their restitution.
In the present case, it is no answer to the order for restitution
that the appellants received the moneys they obtained as
officers of the court, and that they have long since ceased to be
such officers. If the moneys were illegally taken, they must be
restored; and, until a decree of distribution is made and enforced,
the summary power of the court to compel restitution remains
intact. The power could be applied in no case more fittingly
than to previous officers of the court.
The careful and labored reports of the commissioners appointed by the court to examine into the proceedings in the
confiscation cases, ascertain the expenses incurred, and trace
out as far as possible the moneys received, were properly confirmed. There is no objection to their findings which merits
consideration.
The decree brought before us for review must be affirmed,
except as to the costs of the proceedings subsequent to the presentation of the application of the petitioner. Those costs
should be apportioned against the parties ordered to make
restitution, according to the respective amounts they are adjudged to restore. The cause will, therefore, be remanded, with
directions to modify the decree in this particular; but, in all
The decree is affirmed.
other respects,

LLOYD ET AL. V. FULTOx.
1 As the provision of the English Statute of Frauds touching promises made
in consideration of marriage is in force in Georgia, a promise there made,
but not in writing, to settle property upon an intended wife, is void. Such
promise after marriage is also void for want of consideration.

LLOYD ET AL. V.

FULTON.

[Sup. Ct.

2. The indebtedness of a husband at the time of his execution of a conveyance
by way of settling property in trust for the sole and separate use of his
wife and children is only a presumptive proof of fraud which may be explained and rebutted; and this being the established doctrine in Georgia,
where the property in question is situate, such a conveyance was upheld
against existing creditors where the debtor reserved property greater in
value than two and a half times the amount of his debts, and where the
transaction rested upon a basis of good faith, and was free from the taint of
any dishonest purpose.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Georgia.
Fulton, the appellee, having by his marriage acquired large
means, which he had verbally agreed before and after his marriage should be held for the sole and separate use of his wife,
executed the following indenture:"STATE

OF

GEORGIA, Columbia County.

"This indenture, made this, the fourteenth day of September,
1864, between Montroville C. Fulton, of the county and state
aforesaid, of the first part, and James S. Hamilton, of the same
county and state, of the second part, witnesseth that said party of
the first part, for and in consideration of the natural love and affection
which he has and bears towards his wife, Virginia C. Fulton, as well
as in consideration of the sum of ten dollars to him in hand paid
by said party of the second part at and before the sealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged,
bath given, granted, bargained, sold, delivered, released, conveyed,
and confirmed, and by these presents doth give, grant, bargain, sell,
deliver, release, convey, and confirm, unto the said party of the
second part, and to his successors and assigns, subject to the uses
and trusts hereinafter expressed, the following-described real and
personal property ; to wit (the description of the )ri'operty is

omitted).
"In trust, nevertheless, to and for the sole and separate use,
benefit, and behoof of Virginia F. Fulton, wife of the said party
of the first part, for and during the term of her natural life, free
from the debts, liabilities, or contracts of the said party of the first
part, or any future husband, with remainder at her death to her
children then in life, or who have issue alive at that time (the
issue of any deceased child taking the parent's proportionate
share) ; but should she die leaving no child, or issue of a child, surviving her, then with remainder to her heirs at law. Provided

0a 175.]

LLOYD 1r AL. V. FuLTO.

always, and it is 'distinctly understood, that said Virginia F.Fulton,
at any time after the execution of these presents, during coverture
or widowhood, may, by her last will and testament, give, demise,
or bequeath the entire trust-estate, with income and increase
thereof, to such person or persons as she may see fit, as if she were
sole and unmarried ; but in case of her death without leaving any
will, or of any legal disability to make a will, then the trust-estate
shall, after her death, vest ns aforesaid in her children or other
heirs in law. And provided, further, that the said Virginia F. Fulton shall be authorized at any time, upon the death, resignation, or
removal of the party of the second part, or any of his successors,
by instrument in writing, under her hand and seal, to appoint the
said party of the first part, or any other fit and proper person,
trustee in the place and stead of the previous trustee; and the person so appointed shall immediately and ipso facto become entitled
to all the right and authority hereinafter granted, unless restrained
in the deed of appointment, which said Virginia F. shall be authorized to do. And provided, also, that the said party of the second
part, or the party of the first part in the event of becoming trustee
under this instrument, shall be authorized at any time to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of at discretion, the
trust-estate, or its increase, or any portion thereof, reinvesting the
proceeds in such other property, real, personal, or mixed, as may be
deemed best by him; and shall also be authorized, for the purpose
of supporting, maintaining, and educating the said Virginia F. and
her children, to encroach upon the corpus of the estate without
authority from any court. That all subsequent trustee or trustees
shall only be authorized to sell, lease, or exchange, and to reinvest,
upon the written consent of said 'Virginia F., and for the purpose
of support, maintenance, and education, shall only be allowed to
encroach upon the corpus during -the existing war, and upon the
written direction of said Virginia F. so to do.
"And provided, finally, that the separate receipt of the said
Virginia F., notwithstanding coverture, shall be a sufficient and
legal dischage to the party of the second part or party of the first
part (in the event of his appointment as trustee) for the yearly income of the trust-estate, or any portion of the corpus consumed,
and maintenance and education, and that they shall not be required
to make annual or other returlis to the court of ordinary or other
court. That in the event of the death of the said Yirginia F.
'Vithout making a will, and. leaving children, or issue of 'children,
the party of the second part or the party of the first part, if the
voL. 1.
31

LLOYD ET AL. V. FULTON.

trustee, shall be authorized to keep the estate together, exercising
the same power hereinbefore granted until such time as he shall
deem it advisable to distribute the estate among the remaindermen ; but in the event of the death of the said Virginia F. intestate, and leaving no child, or issue of a child, surviving her, then
the trustee for the time being is to distribute the estate among the
heirs at law immediately.
"In witness whereof, the said party of the first part bath hereunto set his hand and seal, the day and year first above written in
duplicate.
"MITTROvI LE C. FULTON. [L. S.]
"Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of us,
ROBERT

B. B.

J. E.
E. J.

MARTIN.

WILKERSON.
SMITH.

SHORT, J. I. C."

The property conveyed, exclusive of slaves, was of less value
than that reserved; and the latter was, at the date of the
indenture, worth more than double the amount of all his
indebtedness.
.The original trustee having resigned his office, the appellee
was appointed in his stead. He had given his two promissory
notes bearing date May 16, 1861, one payable Sept. 1 then next
ensuing, and the other Sept. 1, 1862, each for the sum of $5,000,
to James Lloyd. Suit having been brought upon these notes,
judgment was rendered against him, May 15, 1871, and an execution levied upon the trust-property. He, as trustee, thereupon sued out an injunction restraining a sale. The Circuit
Court having decreed in his favor, the case comes here on
appeal.
The facts are further stated in the opinion of the court.
Sect. 1954 of the Code of Georgia, in force Sept. 14, 1861,
reads as follows:"Acts Void against Creditors.- The following acts by debtors
shall be fraudulent in law against creditors, and as to them null and
void; viz. :"1. Every assignment or transfer by a debtor, insolvent at the
time, of real or personal property of any description, to any person,
either in trust or for the benefit of himself or any one or more of

Oct. 18T5.]

LLOYD LT AL. v. FULTON.

his creditors, or any person appointed by him, to the exclusion of
any otner creditor in the equal participation of such property, unless
such assignment or transfer is a bonafide sale, in extinction, in whole
or in part, of the debt of the purchaser, and without any trust or
benefit reserved to the seller or any person appointed by him.
"2. Every conveyance of real or personal estate by writing or
otherwise, and every bond, suit, judgment, and execution, or contract of any description, had or made with intention to delay or
defraud creditors, and such intention known to the party taking;
a bona fide transaction on a valuable consideration, without notice
or ground for reasonable suspicion, shall be valid.
"Every voluntary deed or conveyance, not for a valuable consideration, made by a debtor insolvent at the time of such conveyance."
Mr. P. Phillipsfor the appellant.
The deed upon its face shows that it is a voluntary conveyance; and there is nothing dehors which entitles it to any other
character. The debt which it seeks to avoid was contracted
four years prior to its execution. The prima facie presumption is, therefore, that the deed is fraudulent as against a prior
creditor. Howard v. Snelling, 32 Ga. 206.
The conveyance, under the circumstances, is void. Parish
v. Murpheree, 13 How. 93.
Mr. John -D. Pope, contra.
SWAY=-E delivered the opinion of the court.
All the testimony in this case was taken by the appellee.
He was complainant in the suit. Only two witnesses were
examined, -himself, and his brother-in-law James S. Hamilton. There is no discrepancy in their statements. The facts
lie within narrow limits.
Fulton, the appellee, married Virginia F. Hamilton, the
daughter of Thomas N. Hamilton, in the year 1851. Her
father was a man of very large fortune. Fulton received by
her, before and after her father's death, more than $100,000.
He had himself, at the time of his marriage, substantially nothing. His father-in-law died intestate in 1859. Before and
after his marriage, Fulton promised his father-in-law to settle
his wife's fortune upon her. After his father-in-law's death,
he made the same promise to her brother, James S. Hamilton,
MR. JUSTICE

LLOYD ET AL.

v.

FULTON.

[Sup. Ct;,

who administered upon his father's estate. Nothing in fulfilment of these promises was done by Fulton until the 14th of
September, 1864. On that day he executed to James S.
Hamilton the deed made a part of the bill. It conveyed the
premises in controversy in trust for the sole and separate use
of the wife of the appellee and her children. The deed contained, among other things, a provision, that, if Hamilton should
die, resign, or be removed from the trusteeship, she might appoint her husband, or any other fit person, as trustee in his
place. On the same day Hamilton resigned, and Fulton was
appointed. On the 16th of May, 1861, Fulton executed to
James Lloyd two notes of $5,000 each, one payable on the 1st
of September following, the other on the 1st of September,
1862. There was due on these notes, at the date of the trustdeed, $11,780. Fulton then owed to other persons not exceeding $2,000. This was the extent of his indebtedness. The
aggregate of his liabilities was less than $14,000. He retained
in his hands property worth $36,000, besides non-enumerated
articles worth $20,000 in Confederate currency. The point
of depreciation which that currency had then reached is not
shown. The property reserved was of greater value than that
conveyed. After the execution of the deed, he was able to pay
the notes. In 1862 he offered to pay them in Confederate currency, which was then but little depreciated. Payment in that
medium was refused. His ability to pay continued until 1866.
In that year he embarked in the enterprise of raising cotton in
Arkansas. The result wrecked his fortune, and ruined him.
He has since been unable to pay the notes. Suit was commenced against him upon the notes in February, 1868; and in
May, 1871, judgment was recovered for $10,000 with interest,
amounting to $6,447.81 and costs. Execution was issued and
levied upon the trust-property described in the bill. This suit
was brought to enjoin the sale, and the Circuit Court decreed
in favor of the complainant.
The provision of the English Statute of Frauds, touching
promises made in consideration of marriage, is in force in
Georgia.
The promise of Fulton to Thomas N. Hamilton before the
marriage was, therefore, void. Browne's Stat. Frauds, 220,
514.

Oct. 1875.]

LLOYD ET AL. V. FuLToN.

His promise after the marriage was without consideration, and
therefore of no validity. The same remark applies to the like
promise to James S. HImilton, the administrator.
The prinoiple of the wife's equity has no application to this
case. Wtocks v. Clarke, 8 Ed., Qh. 63. The trust-deed was
clearly a voluntary conyeyance, LlOyd -as a pioT greditor.
Was the deed good against him?
This question is the core qf the controversy between the
parties.
Formerly, according to the rule of English jurisprudence,
such deeds, as against such creditors, were void. Townsend v.,
Windham, 2 Yes. 10. The sqme principle was applied in such
cases inthis country, Bead v. 14'ingston, 3 J. C. R. 481. It
has been overruled in the English courts. Lush v. Tilkinson
Yes. 884; Townsend v, Tgestocot, 2 Bear, 345; Oale v. Til
V
ljamson, 8 M. & W. 410; ShAqres y. Rogers, 3 B. & A. 96; Preeman v. Pope, 5 Ch. App. Cases Eq. 544, 545. It has been
also overruled by this court (H~inde's Lessee -. Longworth,
11 Wheat. 213; Kehr v. Smith, 20 Wall. 35) and in most of
the States of our Union, The State adjudications to this effect
are too numerous to be cited. We shall refer to a few of them.
How v. Ward, 4 Me. 195; ltforitz v. H7offman, 35 Ill. 553; Leroy v. Iilmarth, 9 Allen, 382; Ilfiller v. Wilson, 15 Ohio, 1081
Young v. White, 25 Miss. 146; Taylor v. .Ewbank, 3 Marsh. 329;
Salmon v, Bennett, 1 Conn. 525; Worthington Shipley, 56. Gill,
449; Townsend v. Maynard, 45 Penn, 199.
Stqch is also the law of the State whence this case came tQ
this court. Weed v. JDavis, 25 Ga. 686. It is a rule of property there; and this court is therefore bound to apply it, in
the ease in hand, as if we were sitting as a local court in that
5tate, Jud, Act of 1789, sect. 34; Olcott v. Bynum et al.,
17 Wall. 44.
The rule as now established is, that prioy' indebtedness is only
presumptive and not conclusive proof of fraud, and this presumption may be explained and rebutted. Fraud is always a
question of fact with reference to the intention of the grantor.
Where there is no fraud, there is no infirmity in thp deed.
Every case depends upon its circumstances, and is to be carefully scrutinized, But the vital question is always the good
faith of the transaction. There is no other test.

LLOYD ET AL. v. FULTON.

[Sup. 0o

Perhaps no more striking illustration can be found of the
application of this principle, and of the opposition its establishment encountered, than is presented in the several cases of
Van Wick v. Seward. On the 6th of November, 1817, Seward
assigned a judgment to Van Wick, and gave him a guaranty
that it was collectible. The judgment was a lien upon lands
fairly to be presumed more than sufficient to satisfy it. On
the 16th of April, 1818, Seward conveyed all his real estate,
consisting of a farm of two hundred acres, to his son. The
consideration of the deed was the payment of a specified sum
to each of two daughters of the grantor, and an annuity for life
of $500 to the grantor himself, who was then aged and infirm.
The lands bound by the lien of the judgment were sold under
execution, and bought in by Van Wick for a nominal sum. He
thereupon sued Seward upon his guaranty, and recovered a
judgment, which was docketed on the 13th of September,
1820.
Van Wick thereupon sold under execution and bought in the
farm which Seward had conveyed to his son, and brought an
action of ejectment to recover possession. The jury found that
there was no actual fraud. The Supreme Court, nevertheless,
upon the ground that the liability was prior to the deed, following the ruling of Chancellor Kent in .Reed v. Livingston,
gave judgment for the plaintiff's lessor. Jackson v. Seward,
5 Cow. 67. This judgment, upon grounds chiefly technical,
was reversed by the Court of Errors of New York. Seward v.
Jackson, 8 Cow. 423. Van Wick thereupon filed a bill in
equity to avoid the deed. Chancellor Walworth concurred
with the jury in the prior case as to the absence of fraud; and
upon that ground, and the further ground of the circumstances
of the sale of the property covered by the lien of the judgment,
dismissed the bill. Van Wick v. Seward, 6 Paige, 63. The
Court of Errors, upon appeal, affirmed this decree by a majority
of one. The vote was fourteen to fifteen. Van Wick v. Seward,
18 Wend. 375. So ended the litigation. Perhaps in no case
was the subject more elaborately examined. This case was
fatal to the old rule. We think the new one more consonant
to right and justice, and founded in the better reason.
In Miller v. Wilson, 15 Ohio, 108, the doctrine of this case

Oct. 1875.]

ZELLER ET AL. V. SWITZER.

was expressly affrmed by the Supreme Court of Ohio, though
the result upon the facts was in favor of the creditors. The
facts of the case in hand are more favorable for the support of
the deed than those in Fan Wick v. Seward. Here the debtor
reserved property worth more than twice and a half the amount
of his debts. He expected and intended to pay all he owed.
He continued able to do so until he lost his means by the hazards of business. The creditor rested supine for a long time.
He did not take his judgment until more than eight years after
the second note matured, and more than six years after the
execution of the trust-deed. More than seven years had
elapsed when the levy was made. The validity of the deed
was then challenged for the first time. The creditor quietly
looked on until after misfortune had deprived the debtor of the
ample means of payment which he had reserved, and now seeks
to wrest from the wife the small remnant of property which
her husband acquired by means derived wholly from her estate,
and which, in part fulfilment of his promise repeatedly made
both before and after his marriage, he endeavored to secure to
her and her children.
The evidence, as it stands in the record, satisfies us of the
honesty of the transaction on his part. The non-payment and
the inability to pay are the results, not of fraud, but of accident and misfortune. When Fulton executed the deed, he did
what he then had the right to do, and was morally, though not
legally, bound to do.
The proofs would not warrant us in holding that the settlement does not rest upon a basis of good faith, or that it is not
free from the taint of any dishonest purpose.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

ZELLER ET A..

v. SWITZER.

Where tha Supreme Court of a State on appeal overruled an exception which
had been sustained in a lower court, and, on setting aside the judgment below,
that the
remanded the case to be proceeded with according to law, -ied,
judgment of such Supreme Court was not final, and that the writ of error
must be dismissed.

