RAYMOND v. THONAS.

[Sup. 0t.

liable to the duty. If the right to tax bankers upon sales made
for themselves rested on the seventy-ninth section alone, a plausible argument could be made in the plaintiffs' favor, arising from
the words "except such as hold a license as a banker; " but
when we read in sect. 99, "that all brokers, and bankers doing
business as brokers," shall be subject to the tax, and consider
the statutory definition of a broker, the plausibility of the
argument ceases.
We have carefully considered the cases of U. S. v. Fisk,
3 Wall. 445, U. S. v. Cutting, id. 441, and Clark v. Gilbert,
5 Blatch. 330, but do not deem it necessary to comment upon
Judgment affirmed.
them in detail.

RAYNIOND v. THOMAS.
The special order, issued May 28, 1868, by the officer in command of the forces
of the United States in South Carolina, wholly annulling a decree rendered by
a court of chancery in that State in a case within its jurisdiction, was void. It
was not warranted by the acts approved respectively Mfarch 2, 1867 (14 Stat.
428), and July 19 of the same year (15 id. 14), which define the powers and
duties of military officers in command of the several States then lately in
rebellion.

to the Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina.
Mr. P. Philltps for the plaintiff in error.
ERR oR

11r. W.

. Boyce for the defendant in error.

MR. JusTi E SwAy.rL- delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts in this case, as disclosed in the record, are somewhat involved and complicated. So far as it is necessary to
consider them for the purposes of this opinion, they are not
voluminous.
On the 25th of August, 1863, Mary Raymond bought from
Thomas, the defendant in error, a small house and lot situated
in Greenville, S.C., for which she gave him her note for $7,000,
payable six months after the ratification of peace between the
Confederates dnd the United States, or before, at her option,
with annual interest from the first day of September, 1863.
The premises were conveyed at the time of the sale, and the

Oct. 1875.]

RAYMOND v. THOMAS.

grantee gave back a mortgage to secure the payment of the
note.
On the 28th of May, 1866, Thomas filed his bill in the Court
of Common Pleas of Greenville County to foreclose the mortgage. The vendee answered. The case was heard in July,
1866, before Chancellor Johnson. The chancellor held that
the note was intended by the parties to be payable in Confederate money; and that, in view of all the circumstances, the
amount of principal equitably due upon it was $2,500. The
case was referred to a master to compute the aggregate principal and interest due upon this basis. This decree, upon the
appeal of Thomas, was affirmed by the Court of Errors of the
State at its December Term, 1867. On the 25th of January,
1868, Chancellor Carrol, sitting in the Common Pleas, decreed
that the amount due in conformity to the master's report
was $3,265.62; that, unless that sum was paid as directed, the
commissioner should sell the premises; and that, if the proceeds
were insufficient to pay the debt and costs, the complainant
might issue execution for the balance.
On the 28th of May following, General Canby issued an order
whereby he annulled this decree. The order contains a slight
error in the description of the decree; but the meaning of the
order is clear. The discrepancy is, therefore, immaterial. On
the 24th of December, 1868, the military order non obstante,
the commissioner reported that he had sold the premises for
$1,005. On the 2d of January, 1869, Mary Raymond filed her
bill in the Court of Common Pleas of Charleston County, setting forth the facts above stated; and further, that the sheriff
of that county was about to proceed to collect from her the
balance still due upon the decree, amounting to $2,653.26. She
prayed that Thomas and all others be perpetually enjoined from
further enforcing the decree. The court decreed accordingly.
Subsequently Gaillard (the purchaser) and Thomas answered,
and moved to dissolve the injunction. In July, 1869, this motion was overruled, and the injunction again ordered to be made
perpetual. An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the
State, but failed for want of prosecution.
In December, 1870, Thomas obtained leave to amend his
original bill of foreclosure. He did so, setting forth, among

RAYMOND v. THOMAS.

[Sup. t

other things, that the original defendant, Mary Raymond, had
died, and that Henry H. Raymond had been appointed her
executor, and making him a party. In due time he answered,
denying that he was either executor or administrator of the
deceased, and insisting that he was not bound to answer, and
that no decree could be taken against him. He admitted that
he was in possession of her estate, and averred that he was
ready to pay all her just debts. The amended bill and this
answer set forth other things not necessary to be repeated.
The case in this new aspect came on to be heard. It was
decreed that the sale of the mortgaged premises be confirmed,
that the purchaser have a writ of assistance to enable him
to obtain possession, and that the complainant have leave to
enter up a judgment against the defendant for the balance due
him, and interest and costs, as before decreed. Raymond thereupon removed the case by appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State. That court, at the April Term, 1873, affirmed the decree
of the lower court. This writ of error was thereupon sued out
by Raymond; and the judgment of the Supreme Court is thus
brought before us for review.
Outside of the record, our attention has been called to an act
of the legislature of South Carolina of the 2d of September,
1868, touching certain military orders therein mentioned. The
act does not embrace or affect the order of General Canby in
question in this case.
Nothing more need be said in regard to the act.
The only point insisted upon here by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error is the order of General Canby of the 2d of May,
1868, and its disregard by the Supreme Court of South Carolina in the judgment before us. The validity of the order is
denied by the defendant in error. Our remarks will be confined to that subject.
The war between the United States and the insurgents terminated in South Carolina, according to the judgment of this
court, on the 2d of April, 1866. Te Protector, 12 Wall. 701.
The National Constitution gives to Congress the power, among
others, to declare war and suppress insurrection. The latter
power is not limited to victories in the field and the dispersion
of the insurgent forces. It carries with it inherently rightful

Oct. 1875.]

RAYMOND

v. THOMAS.

authority to guard against an immediate renewal of the conflict,
and to remedy the evils growing out of its rise and progress
Stewart v. Zahn, 11 Wall. 506.
The close of the war was followed by the period of reconstruction, and the laws enacted by Congress with a view to
that result.
These laws are the acts of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 428), the
act of July 19, 1867 (15 id. 14), and the act of June 25, 1868
(id. 73). The two acts first mentioned defined the powers and
duties of the military officers placed in command in the several
States lately in rebellion. The act of June 25, 1868, provided,
among other things, that, whenever the legislature of South
Carolina should ratify the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, she should be again admitted to
representation in Congress; and that it should be the duty of
the President, within ten days after receiving official information of the ratification, to issue a proclamation announcing the
fact. Such a proclamation was issued on the l1th of July,
1868 (15 Stat. 704). This replaced the State in her normal
relations to the Union. Nothing further was necessary, but the
elections provided for (which speedily followed), to render her
rehabilitation complete.
We have looked carefully through the acts of March 2, 1867,
and July 19, 1867. They give very large governmental powers
to the military commanders designated, within the States committed respectively to their jurisdiction; but we have found
nothing to warrant the order here in question. It was not an
order for mere delay. It did not prescribe that the proceeding
should stop until credit and confidence were restored, and business should resume its wonted channels. It wholly annulled a
decree in equity regularly made by a competent judicial officer
in a plain case clearly within his jurisdiction, and where there
was no pretence of any unfairness, of any purpose to wrong or
oppress, or of any indirection whatsoever.
The meaning of the legislature constitutes the law. A thing
may be within the letter of a statute, but not within its meaning; and within its meaning, though not within its letter. Stewart v. Kahn, supra.
The clearest language would be necessary to satisfy us that

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. ot

Congress intended that the power given by these acts should
be so exercised.
It was an arbitrary stretch of 'authority, needful to no good
end that can be imagined. Whether Congress could have conferred the power to do such an act is a question we are not
called upon to consider. It is an unbending rule of law, thal
the exercise of military power, where the rights of the citizen
are concerned, shall never be pushed beyond what the exigency
requires. i1fitchell v. JHarmony, 13 How. 115; Warden v. Bailey, 4 Taunt. 67; Pabrigas v., i'oysten, 1 Cow-p. 161; s. C.,
1 Smith's L. C., pt. 2, p. 934. Viewing the subject before us
from the stand-point indicated, we hold that the order was void.
This is the only Federal question presented for our consideration. As the Supreme Court of the State decided it correctly,
our jurisdiction terminates at this point: we can look no farther
Judgment affirmed.
into the case.

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, v. EATON ET AL.
1. A devise of the income from property, to cease on the insolvency or bankruptcy
of the devisee, is good; and a limitation over to his wife and children, upon
the happening of such contingency, is valid, and the entire interest passes
to them: but if the devise be to Mim and his wife or children, or if he has
in any way a vested interest thereunder, that interest, whatever it may be,
may be separated from that of his wife or children, and paid over to his
assignee in bankruptcy.
2. Where, upon certain trusts therein limited and declared, a devise of real and
personal property to trustees directed them to pay the income arising therefrom to A., and provided, that if he should alienate or dispose of it, or
should become bankrupt or insolvent, the trust expressed respecting it
should thereupon cease and determine, and authorized them, in the event
of such bankruptcy or alienation, to apply it to the support of the wife,
child, or children, of A., and, if there were none, to loan or reinvest it in
augmentation of the principal sum or capital of the estate until his decease,
or until he should have a wife or children capable of receiving the trust forfeited by him; and also provided that the trustees might at any time, in
their discretion, transfer to him any portion not exceeding one-half of the
trust-fund ; and in case, after the cessation of income on account of any
cause specified in the will other than death, it should be lawful for the trustees, in their discretion, but without its being obligatory upon them, to pay to
or apply for the use of A., or that of his wife and family, the income to which
he would have been entitled in case the forfeiture had not happened, - Held,
that the bankruptcy or insolvency f A. terminated all his legal vested right

