Oct. 1875.]

LoNG

LT AL. V. OONVERSE ET AL.

105*

Applying what we have said to the instruction giv6n by the
learned judge of the Circuit Court to the jury, it is evident that
he was in error. Without discussing in detail the several assignments of error, it is sufficient for the necessities of this case to
say that it was a mistake to charge the jury, as they were charged,
that "in the absence of any consent of the owner of a bill of
exchange, other than such as may be implied from the mere
fact of sending I for collection' a bill of exchange with a bill
of lading pasted or attached to a bill of exchange, the bank so
receiving the two papers for collection would not be authorized
to separate the bill of lading from the bill of exchange, and
surrender it before the bill of exchange was paid." And again:
there was error in the following portion of the charge: "But if
the Metropolitan Bank merely sent to the defendant bank the
bills of exchange with the bills of lading attached for collection,
with no other instructions, either expressed or implied from
the past relations of the parties, they would not be so justified
in surrendering (the bills of lading) on acceptance only." The
Bank of Commerce can be held liable to the owners of the
drafts for a breach of duty in surrendering the bills of lading
on acceptance of the drafts, only after special instructions to
retain the bills until payment of the acceptances. The drafts
were all time drafts. One, it is true, was drawn at sight; but,
in Massachusetts, such drafts are entitled to grace.
What we have said renders it unnecessary to notice the other
assignments of error.
Di~e judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed,and the record
is remitted with directions to award a new trial.

LOIG ET

AL. v. CONvERSE ET AL.

I. This court has no jurisdiction to review the decision of a State court against
a right and a title under a statute of the United States, unless such right
and title be specially set up and claimed by the party for himself, and not
for a third person under whom he does not claim.
2. So far as it relates to the above point, sect. 709 of the Revised Statutes,
which authorizes this court, in certain cases, to re-examine upon a writ of
error the judgment or decree of a State court, does not differ from the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
8. Former decisions of this court upon said twenty-fifth section cited and examined.

LONG ET AL. V.

CONVERSE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Massachusetts.
On the 20th of July, 1870, a bill was filed in the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts for the foreclosure of a mortgage, executed by the Boston, Hartford, and Erie Railroad Company, to secure the payment of certain bonds. The bill prayed
a sale of the mortgaged property, and the appointment of receivers. Henry N. Farwell was named as one of the defendants,
he being one of the trustees under the mortgage, and also one
of the directors of the company. Process was served upon him
July 21, 1870.
On the 2d of August, 1870, an order was made appointing
receivers, vith authority to take possession of all the property
of the railroad company, including all moneys, credits, choses
in action, evidences of debt, books, papers, and vouchers.
On the 1st of March, 1871, the railroad company was adjudged a bankrupt by the District Court of the United States
for the District of Massachusetts; and on the 18th of the same
month an assignment of its property, according to the provisions
of the Bankrupt Act, was made to Charles S. Bradley, Charles
L. Chapman, and George M. Barnard, as assignees. This assignment was made to include all the property of which the
company was possessed on the 21st of October, 1870.
On the 20th of September, 1871, the receivers of the railroad
company filed in the Supreme Judicial Court their petition
against George W. Long and John C. Watson, alleging, in substance, that, when the order appointing them receivers was made,
Farwell had in his possession, as one of the officers of the railroad
cQmpany, certain coupons of bonds of the Hartford, Providence,
and Fishkill Railroad Company, and of bonds of the city of
Providence, which were the property of the Boston, Hartford,
ind Erie Railroad Company, and which, by the decree, he was
ordered to deliver to them; that the railroad company had no
right to sell or transfer the coupons, or put them in circulation;
that he had no right to the coupons or their possession; that,
notwithstanding this, he had, subsequently to their appointment
as receivers, transferred to Long and Watson five hundred of
the coupons of the bonds of the city of Providence; and that
Long and Watson, at the time, had full knowledge of the

Oct. 1875.]

LoNG ET AL. v. CONVERSE ET AL.

rights of the railroad company, and that Farwell had no power
or authority to make the transfer.
The petitioners asked that Long and Watson might be ordered
to deliver the coupons to them, and restrained from collecting
the money due thereon.
Long and Watson answered this petition, denying that Faxwell, at the time of the appointment of the receivers, held the
coupons in trust for the railroad company, and averring that he
held them as collateral security for a debt owing to him by the
Hartford, Providence, and Fisbkill Railroad Company. Having no knowledge whether the Boston, Hartford, and Erie
Railroad Company had authority to sell the coupons, or put
them in circulation, they left the petitioners to make such proof
of that fact as they might deem material. They admitted the
transfer to them by Farwell after the appointment of the receivers, but denied any knowledge of the rights of the railroad
company, and averred that they purchased the coupons of Farwell in good faith, believing that he had the right to make the
transfer.
Subsequently, on the 27th of June, 1872, they filed an amendment to their answer, setting up the bankruptcy of the railroad
company and the assignment to the assignees, and concluding
as follows: "Wherefore these resppndents submit that the said
petitioners had not, at the date of the filing of the said petition,
if they ever had, any right to the possession of any of the property of the said Boston, Hartford, and Erie Railroad Company,
and particularly to the possession of the coupons in said petition alleged to be the property of the said company, and in the

possession of these respondents."
The cause was referred to a special master.

Upon the com-

ing in of his report, exceptions were filed; and at the April
Term, 1872, an entry was made on the docket of the court, as
follows: "Plaintiffs' exceptions sustained. Decree for the receivers upon the evidence reported."
The cause was then
continued. On the 28th August, 1872, the assignees in bankruptcy filed in the cause a paper addressed to the court, in
which they represented, that "having read . ..the proposed
decree of this court against George W. Long and John C. Watson, ordering them to surrender and deliver up to the receivers

LONG ET AL.

V. CONVERSE ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

the coupons of the bonds of the city of Providence described
in the petition against them, we do assent to said decree, and
to the delivery of the coupons to the receivers, as therein
ordered."
Afterwards, on the 5th of May, 1873, a decree in form was
entered by the court, in which it was "found as a matter of
fact, and further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the respondents, George W. Long and John C. Watson, took the
interest coupons sought in this petition to be recovered of them,
to wit, &c., under circumstances which preclude said Long and
Watson from claiming the right of holders for value in good
faith; and that, as against the petitioners in said petition, said
Long and Watson acquired no better title to said coupons than
Henry N. Farwell himself had, and that said Farwell had no
right or title to the same; and that the right to the possession
of and the title to said coupons are now in the petitioners, . . .
notwithstanding the amended answer of said defendants and
the alleged adjudication in bankruptcy and subsequent assignment made therein." Thereupon it was further decreed that
the receivers recover of Long and Watson the money which it
appeared they had collected during the pendency of the suit
from the city of Providence upon the coupons received by them
from Farwell.
To reverse this decree, the present writ of error has been prosecuted by Long and Watson.
The error assigned is, that the court below held that the right
and title to the coupons in controversy were in the defendants in
error, as receivers of the Boston, Hartford, and Erie Railroad
Company; and that they were entitled to maintain suit to recover
the same, notwithstanding the adjudication of the bankruptcy
of that company, and the assignment of all its property by
register in bankruptcy to assignees in bankruptcy before suit
brought by the defendants in error.
fIfr. Benjamin P. Butler, with whom was Hr. Causten Browne,
for the plaintiffs in error.
First, The question presented by the assignment of error is
one within the jurisdiction of this court.
1. This was a final decree in a suit in equity in the highest
court of law or equity of the State of Massachusetts.

Oct. 1875.]

LONG ET AL. V. CONVESE ET AL.

Though in form, under the practice in Massachusetts, this
petition is entitled in the suit in which the receivers were ap.
pointed, it -was really a bill in equity, and the suit was in all
respects a suit in equity.
2. There was drawn in question the validity of an authority
exercised under a State, on the ground of its being repugnant
to the laws of the United States; and the decision was in favor
of such authority.
The reecivers were officers of the State court; and the validity of their authority as such officers, after the bankruptcy of
the railroad company and the assignment of its property, was
directly drawn in question, on the ground of its being repugnant
to the Bankrupt Law of the United States; and the decision
was expressly in favor of such authority.
Second, The receivers of the Boston, Hartford, and Erie
Railroad Company were not entitled to maintain suit for the
recovery of the coupons in controversy after the adjudication of
the bankruptcy of that company, and the assignment of all its
property by a register in bankruptcy to assignees in bankruptcy
duly elected and appointed.
The statute of the United States, the paramount law of the
land, in force at the time of the commencement of proceedings
in bankruptcy against the company, provided that, as soon as
the assignee in bankruptcy was appointed and qualified, the
judge of the District Court, or, in case of no opposing interest,
the register, "shall, by an instrument under his hand, assign
and convey to the assignee all the estate, real and personal, of
the bankrupt, with all his deeds, books, and papers relating
thereto; and such assignment shall relate back to the commencement of said proceedings in bankruptcy; and thereupon,
by operation of law, the title to all such property and estate, both
real and personal, shall vest in said assignee," &c. 14 Stat.
522, sect. 14.
The statute is explicit and peremptory that the title to all
the property and estate of the bankrupt shall, upon assignment
duly made to the assignee in bankruptcy, vest by operation of
law in such assignee.
It is submitted, that, after such assignment, the assignee,
and he alone, is entitled to bring suit for the possession of

LONG ET AL. V. CONVMEIE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

property claimed to be the property of the bankrupt. Smith
v. Buchanan, 8 Blatch. 153.
The cases in which it has been held that the United States
bankruptcy courts will not interfere with property in possession of a State court do not apply in this case.
Whether or not the principle of those cases can be maintained
it is not necessary to discuss. They are distinguished from this
case by the fact that in all of them the officers of the State
court were actually in possession of the property in controversy
at the time of the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy. Sedgwick v. lfenck, 6 Blatch. 156; Clark v. Bininger,
3 N. B. R. 524; Alden v. Railroad Co., 5 id. 230; Beecher v.
Bininger, 7 Blatch. 171.
The question of the right of receivers appointed by a State
court to maintain suit for the recovery of the alleged property
of a bankrupt, after an adjudication in bankruptcy and the assignment thereunder, has never been decided.
It cannot be contended that the decree appointing the
receivers of its own force put them into possession of the
property in controversy. The decree cannot be so construed.
Its language and spirit are directly opposed to such a construction.
To hold that the mere appointment of receivers by a State
court ipso facto puts them into possession of all the debtor's
property would be to deal an almost fatal blow at the Bankrupt
Law; for if, as has been held, the Bankruptcy Court will not
interfere with property in the possession of receivers, and the
mere fact of their appointment puts them in possession, it will
be an easy matter to avoid the operation of that law, or make
proceedings under it a solemn farce, by simply suing the
debtor, and procuring the appointment of a receiver of his
property.
It is submitted that the defendants in error were not entitled
to maintain their suit in the court below; and that the decree
sl ould be reversed, with directions to dismiss the petition.
Mr. Bevjamin P. Brooks and 2Ir. James J. Storrow for defendants in error.
It is clear that the amended answer does not set up any title
in the plaintiffs in error accruing to them under any statute of

Oct. 1875.]

LONG ET AL. V. CO-VERsE ET AL.

the United States. It is well settled that the right to bring a
writ of error under the second clause of the twenty-fifth section
of the old Judiciary Act is given to the party who claims the right
or the title under the statute, the construction of which is drawn
in question: it is for him to exercise it or not as he sees fit, to
protect his own interests. The writ is not given to strangers,
volunteers, mere trespassers or wrong-doers, who hold not under,
enderson v. Tennessee,
but adversely to, such right or title.
10 How. 311, and cases cited; Yale v. aaines, 22 id. 149; Verden v. Colman, 1 Black, 472.
The act of 1867, sect. 2, under which this writ was brought,
re-enacted in this respect the language of the old law; the only
change made serving to make the case still stronger against the
plaintiffs in error. For the language of the old law, which
seemed to give some color to the idea that it was enough that
the right claimed was such that it" drew in question the construction of any clause of . . . a statute of the United States," was
omitted; and the present act is in terms restricted (as by the
decisions of this court the former act was restricted) to cases
of a "right, title, &c., claimed under . . . any statute of the
United States." R. S., sect. 709, follows the act of 1867.
The first part of sect. 2 of the act of 1867 (R. S. sect. 709)
must receive the same construction. It is true that the receivers exercise an authority given by the State court, the power of
which the plaintiffs in error deny; and they assign a statute
of the United States as the ground of their denial. But the
same reasons which led the court in 2iurdoce v. ijempTi (20
Wall. 590) to hold that a very striking change of language did
not indicate an intention to change the old construction with
regard to the questions raised will lead the court now to say
that a re-enactment of the language without variation in the
same section forbids any inference of an intention to inaugurate
a change in the settled rule as to the persons who are entitled
to raise the questions ; and to hold that a different rule applied in resisting a claim made by State authority, and asserting
an immunity claimed under Federal authority, would be, not
merely to introduce discord into the law, but to provide grounds
for opposite decisions in the same case. Indeed, the language
of this part of the section is less strong in favor of the plain-

LONG ET AL. V.

CONVERSE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

tiffs' claim than the language of the act of 1789, upon which
the cases first above cited were decided.
The writ should therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Our jurisdiction in this case depends upon the effect to be
given to that provision of the Judiciary Act which authorizes
this court to re-examine the decisions of the highest court of a
State in certain cases, "where any title, right, privilege, or
immunity is claimed under" any statute of the United States.
The plaintiffs in error did not claim under the assignees in
banlruptcy. They set up the title of the assignees, not to
protect their own, but to defeat that of the receivers appointed
by the State court. They claimed adversely to both the receivers and assignees. They did not even allege that the assignees
had ever attempted to assert title. The contest was one originally for the possession of certain papers. The decree for
money was given, because, pending the suit, the papers sought
for had been exchanged for money, and the receivers were
willing to accept the exchange. In the absence of the assignees
from the case, the decree could have no effect upon their title
to the coupons or money. If, when the demand was made by
the receivers, the plaintiffs in error had surrendered the coupons, that surrender would have been a complete defence to a
future action by the assignees, inasmuch as they had not before
that time asserted their claim, either by demand or notice.
The title of the assignees to the property would not have been
defeated by the transfer. Whatever rights they had against
the plaintiffs in error could- be enforced by an appropriate
proceeding against the receivers. The whole effect of the
surrender, so far as the assignees were concerned, was to transfer the custody of the property from the plaintiffs in error to
the receivers. In this case the transfer was not voluntary, but
in pursuance of a decree rendered by a court of competent
jurisdiction, with the assent of the assignees. Under such
circumstances, it is not easy to see how the assignees can proceed further against the parties, who have only obeyed the
commands of the court. Clearly, their remedy, if they have
anv, is Pqainst the nronerty in the hands of the receivers.

Oct. 1875.]

LONG ET AL. v. CoNvERs.

T AL.

The second section of the act of Feb. 5, 1867 (14 Stat. 385),
which was in force when this writ of error was brought, and
which has been substantially re-enacted in the Revised-Statutes (sect. 709), differs only from the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, so far as the provision now under consideration is concerned, in the substitution of the word "immunity"
for "exemption." In the old act, the words were "title, right,
privilege, or exemption;" in the last, "title, right, privilege,
or immunity." This does not materially affect the rights of
the parties in the present case. The words, when used in this
connection and applied to the circumstances of this case, have
substantially the same meaning.
The construction of this provision in the act of 1789 came
before this court for consideration as early as 1809, in the case
of Owing's Lessee v. Norwood, 5 Cranch, 844. That was an
action of ejectment in a State court. The defendant, being in
possession, set up an outstanding title in a third person under
a treaty. The writ of error from this court was dismissed for
want of jurisdiction. In the progress of the argument, Chief
Justice Marshall used this language : "Whenever a right grows
out of or is protected by a treaty, it is sanctioned against all
the laws and decisions of the States; and whoever may have
this right, it is to be protected. But if the person's title is not
affected by the treaty, if he claims nothing under a treaty, his
title cannot be protected by a treaty. If Scaxth or his heirs
had claimed, it would have been a case arising under a treaty.
But neither the title of Scarth nor of any person claiming
under him can be affected by the decision of this case." In
.ontgomery v. Hernandez, 12 Wheat. 129, a suit was brought

in a State court by parties beneficially interested in a bond
given to the United States by a marshal to secure the faithful
performance of his official duties. The suit was in the names
of the beneficiaries, and not in that of the United States for
their use. It was insisted that there could be no recovery,
because the action should have been prosecuted in the name of
the United States; and this was assigned for error in this court.
But it was said that "the plaintiff in error did not and could not
claim any right, title, privilege, or exemption by or under the
marshal's bond, or any act of Congress giving authority to sue
VOL. 1.

8

SAWYER ET AL.

v. TuRPiN

E

AL.

[Sup. Ct.

the obligors for a breach of the condition," and that the court
had no jurisdiction of the case on that ground. Again: the
same question was presented and elaborately argued in Henderson v. Tennessee, 10 How. 311, decided in 1850. That also was
an action of ejectment in a State court, in which the defendant
set up an outstanding title in a third person, under an Indian
treaty; and there, too, the writ was dismissed. In delivering
the opinion of the court, Chief Justice Taney said, "It is true,
the title set up in this case was claimed under a treaty; but,
to give jurisdiction to this court, the party must claim the right
for himself, and not for a third person in whose title he has no
interest. .

.

. The heirs of Miller appear to have no interest in

this suit, nor can their rights be affected by the decision. The
judgment in this case is no obstacle to their assertion of their
title in another suit brought by themselves or any person
claiming a legal title under them." To the same effect are Hale
v. Gaines, 22 How. 149, 160, and erden v. Coleman, 1 Black,
472. This must be considered as settling the law in this class
of cases; and it seems to be decisive of this case. The plaintiffs in error claim no title, right, privilege, or immunity under
the Bankrupt Law. Their obligation to account for the coupons
in their hands is not discharged by the law. The title of the
assignees cannot be affected by the decree, except through their
consent. It follows, therefore, that this case must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
NOTE. -Parwell v. Converse et al., in error to the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, differs from the preceding case in this, that the decree against
Farwell was for the delivery of the coupons which still remained in his hands,
and not for the money collected upon them. The writ in this case was, therefore, dismissed for the reasons appearing in the opinion given in that case.

SAWYER ET AL. v. TURpIm ET AL.
As the exchange of a valid security for one of equal value within four months
prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, even when the creditor and
debtor know of the insolvency of the latter, takes nothing away from the
other creditors, and is, therefore, not in conflict with the thirty-fifth section
of the Bankrupt Act,- Held, that a chattel mortgage, taken within that
period of time by a creditor in exchange for a prior valid bill of sale of the
same property, and recorded pursuant to the laws of the State where the
transaction took place before any rights of the assignees in bankruptcy
accrued, cannot be impeached by them as a fraudulent preference within
the meaning of that act.

