Oct. 1875.]

SEM= S v. UNITED STATES.

their fellow-citizens or subjects might be assumed as sufficiently
attested by the works on international law and the acts and instructions of our own government. But the precise extent of
this iurisdiction is unknown to us. Whether it applies to any
but residents in Turkey, or to travellers as well; whether to
persons not in the country at all, but having property there, or
claims against persons who axe there; whether to cases like the
present, -where neither party resides in Turkey, or is sojourning
there, -axe questions which axe not answered by the ordinary
statements made in reference to this jurisdiction. As the power
of the consuls of the United States, according to the treaties
and laws as they stood in 1864, depended on the laws or usages
of Turkey, those laws or usages should have been pleaded in
some manner, however briefly, so that the court could have
seen that the case was within them; for, failing to do this,
the plea was defective in substance, and judgment should have
been rendered for the plaintiff on the demurrer.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the -Districtof (Jolumbia must be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to allow the defendant to amend his plea on payment qf costs.
SF

S V. Ui-TD STATES.

1. The power of amending a writ of error returnable to the Circuit Court is
vested in that court as fully as it is in the Supreme Court on writs of error
returnable to it.
2. The judgment of the Circuit Court ought not to be reversed for defects of
form in the process returnable on error to that court, which are amendable
by the express words of an act of Congress.
3. The proclamation of the President of the United States, bearing date Sept. 7,
1867, did not work the dismissal of legal proceedings against property seized
under the confiscation act of July 17, 1862, or provide for the restoration
of all rights of property to persons engaged in the rebellion.
4. Property so seized became the property of the United States from the date of
the decree of condemnation.
5. The writ of error vested the Circuit Court with complete jurisdiction; and
that court having reversed the second decree of the District Court, dismissing the libel, and adjudged that the first decree condemning the property
should remain in full force, might "proceed to pass such decree as should
have been passed" by the subordinate court; and, if a decree confirming
the sale of the property was necessary, it, was entirely competent for the
Circuit Court to pass it.

SEMiES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated, and the assignment of errors is referred
to, in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Thomas . Semmes,
in propria persona, and Mr. Bobert "ott, for the plaintiff in
error, and by Hr. Solicitor-General Phillips and Hr. Assistant
Attorney- General Edwin B. Smith for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Proceedings in rem were instituted in the District Court
on the 7th of August, 1863, under the confiscation act of the
17th of July, 1862, against certain real property of the respondent; which proceedings resulted, on the 5th of April,
1865, in the condemnation of the property described in the
libel. On the 11th of the same month a writ of venditioni exponas was issued, commanding the marshal to sell the property on the 18th of the same month; but the marshal did not
sell the same on that day, for the reason, as appears by his return, that the best price bid at the time and place of the sale
did not amount to two-thirds of the appraised value of the
property; and, for the reason stated, the marshal withdrew
the property from sale, and again advertised the same for sale,
as directed by the prior order of the court.
Two lots of land were embraced in the libel and the decree
of condemnation, which, in fact, were not the property of the
respondent. Accordingly, the true owner of the same in the
mean time-to wit, on the 2d of May, 1865-filed a petition
in the same court, setting forth his right to the two lots in
question, and stating that they were improperly advertised for
sale by the marshal, and prayed the court to open the decree to
allow him to assert his title.
Consent in writing to that effect having been given by the
district attorney, the court subsequently entered a decree opening the decree of condemnation for the purpose of enabling
the petitioner to submit to the court his claim to those lots,
as evidenced by the proofs on file. Pursuant thereto, the
court, on the 31st of May in the same year, rendered judgment, restoring those two lots to the intervenor, as claimed in
his petition.

Uct. 1875.]

SEM

S V. UNITED STATES.

Such correction of the decree of condemnation having been
made, the return of the marshal shows that he sold the residue
of the lots condemned, in pursuance of the second advertisement, to E. W. Burbank, for the amount specified in the record,
and that he paid the money over to the clerk of the court.
On the 4th of March, 1868, the respondent having first suggested that the decree of condemnation had been opened, and
that a portion of the property libelled had never been condemned by any subsequent decree, moved the court to set aside
the default against him, and for leave to file his claim and answer. Hearing was had on the motion, and the court ordered
that the purchaser of the property should be made a party to
the rule. Burbank, the purchaser, accordingly appeared, and
filed an exception to the rule, that his rights as purchaser could
not be questioned in such a form of proceeding, and offered in
evidence the deed of the marshal and the decree of condemnation, together with the writ of venditioni exponas. Both parties
were again heard; and the court, on the 15th of April in the
same year, overruled the exceptions of the purchaser, and set
aside the default of the respondent, and granted him leave to
file his claim and answer.
Leave to that effect having been granted, the respondent filed
his answer, alleging his ownership of the property, the insufficiency of the allegations contained in the libel, and denied
that the President ever authorized the seizure of his property,
and averred that he had been pardoned by the President, and
that he was included in the general amnesty proclamation.
Proofs were introduced; and the court, on the 27th of June
following, entered a final decree, dismissing the libel, and restoring the property to the respondent upon the payment of all
costs.
Proper steps were taken in behalf of the United States to
sue out a writ of error, and the cause was by the United States
removed into the Circuit Court, where the decree of the District Court was in all things reversed, and a decree entered in
favor of the United States, that the decree of condemnation
originally pronounced by the District Court stand and remain
in full force and effect, and that the sale made by virtue thereof
do stand confirmed. Whereupon the respondent sued out a
writ of error, and removed the cause into this court.

SEMIES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Certain formal errors are assigned as follows, which will first
be considered: 1. That the writ of error from the Circuit Court to the District Court was made returnable on the first Monday of December, instead of the first Monday in November, as it should have
been; and because the writ of error was not returnable in accordance with the order allowing the same, nor according to the
citation.
2. Errors affecting the merits are also assigned, as follows:
(1.) That the President had by his proclamation of amnesty
dismissed all proceedings against any person or his property,
engaged, or in any manner implicated, in the rebellion. (2.)
That, the original decree having been opened, the property of
the respondent could not be sold at all, as there was no subsisting decree of condemnation. (3.) That the sale to the purchaser was null, because it was not made on the day specified in
the writ of venditioni exponas. (4.) That the Circuit Court
had no authority to confirm the sale to the purchaser. (5.)
That the special pardon as well as the amnesty proclamation
entitled the respondent to a restoration of his property in case
the sale by the marshal was null and void.
1. Evidently the alleged preliminary defect is one of form,
and it is equally clear that the power to amend all process returnable to the Circuit Court is vested in that court as fully as
it is in the Supreme Court; and the express provision is that the
Supreme Court may allow an amendment of a writ of error
when there is a mistake in the title of the writ or a seal to the
writ is wanting, or when the writ is returnable on a day other
than the day of the commencement of the term next ensuing;
and, by the true construction of the provision upon the subject,
the same power of amendment is vested in the Circuit and
District Courts in all cases where the process is returnable
in those respective courts. 17 Stat. 197. Hfampton v. Bouse,
15 Wall. 686.
Grave doubts are also entertained whether the supposed error
would avail the respondent, even if no such act of Congress
had been passed, as it appears that the copy of the writ lodged
with the clerk of the District Court was correct, and that the
transcript of the record of the case was actually made out,

oct. 1851

SEAIMES V. UNITED STATES.

returned, ayd filed in the Circuit Court, before the commenceSuch
ment of .ne term of the Circuit Court next ensuing.
is
defect
fact, the better opinion is that the supposed
being
immaterial.
oW
qholly
0
:ppose, however, it is otherwise: still the court here is of
ue opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court ought not to
be reversed for a defect of form in the process which is amendable by the express words of an act of Congress, unless it
appears that the alleged defect may have injured the complaining party, or that he would have been prejudiced if the defect
had been amended.
2. Nor is it correct to suppose that legal proceedings against
the property of the respondent were dismissed by the amnesty
proclamation, or that the amnesty proclamation provided for
the restoration of all rights of property to persons engaged in
the rebellion. On the contrary, the proclamation referred to
contains the express exception "as to property with regard
to slaves," and "in cases of legal proceedings under the laws of
the United States." 15 Stat. 700.
Suffice it to remark, that a decree of condemnation in clue
form of law was entered in this case nearly two years and a
half before the amnesty proclamation was issued, which shows
to a demonstration that the property in controversy in this case
falls within the exception contained in that proclamation; which
is all that need be said upon that subject.
3. Sufficient appears in the record to show that the decree
was never opened except for the special purpose of allowing the

true owner of the two specified lots to file his claim and answer
to that part of the libel, as authorized in the written stipulation
signed by the district attorney. Argument to show that the
true owner of those lots, without such consent in writing, -would
have been remediless, is unnecessary; and it is equally certain
that the court could not open the decree three years after it
was entered for any other purpose than that specified in the
written stipulation, and the record shows that it never was attempted to be opened for any other purpose. Viewed in the
light of the actual facts disclosed in the record, the assignment
of error in that regard is utterly destitute'of merit.
4. Properties condemned as forfeited to the United States,

SEMMES v. UNITE

STATE.&

[Sup. O.

under the aforesaid act of Congress, become the property of
the United States from the date of the decree of condemnation.
12 Stat. 591, sect. T.
Judgment of forfeiture was rendered in this case on the 5th
of April, 1865, and the land in question became from that date
the property of the United States; and it may well be contended,
that, from that time, it could not concern the respondent whether
-theproceedings of the marshal in selling the same were regular
or irregular, as the title to the land was lost to him when it
became vested in the United States. He now contends that
the sale is null, because it was not made on the day named in
the writ of venditioniexponas; to which the United States make
answer, that he cannot be heard to raise that question, as his
title was divested by the decree of condemnation. But it is not
necessary to rest the decision upon that ground, as it is wellsettled law that the marshal, in the exercise of a sound discretion, may adjourn the sale in such a case to another day; and
the court is of the opinion that the circumstances disclosed
in the record were of a character to fully justify the marshal in
the course which he pursued. Blossom v. Railroad, 3 Wall.
209; Collier v. Whipple, 18 Wend. 229; R~equa v. Rtea, 2
Paige, 339.
6. Beyond doubt, the original decree of the District Court
was complete and correct; and it is doubtless true that the
decree of the Circuit Court reversing the second decree of the
District Court, and adjudging that the first decree of the District Court should stand and remain in full force and effect,
would have been sufficient without any decree confirming the
sale by the marshal: but, even if the decree confi-ming the sale
be regarded as an act of supererogation, it cannot render invalid what would have been valid without it.
Complete "urisdiction of the cause was vested in the Circuit
Court by virtue of the writ of error; and the Circuit Court,
having reversed the second decree of the District Court, might
"proceed to pass such decree as should have been passed" by
the subordinate court; and it follows, that, if a decree confirming the sale was necessary, it was entirely competent for the
Circuit Court to pass such a decree. 1 Stat. 85.
6. Such proceedings under the confiscation act in question

Oct. 1875.]

McL. moxE v. LouiswuA.

STATu

BANK.

27

are justified as an exercise of belligerent rights against a public
enemy, and are not, in their nature, a punishment for treason.
Consequently, confiscation being a proceeding distinct from,
and independent of, the treasonable guilt of the owner of the
property confiscated, pardon for treason will not restore rights
to property previously condemned and sold in the exercise of
belligerent rights, as against a purchaser in good faith and for
value. Mliller v. United States, 11 Wall. 267; Confiscation
Cas., 20 id. 92; Gay's Cold, 13 id. 351.
By the seizure of the property, the District Court acquired
jurisdiction to pass the decree of condemnation. All of the
proceedings prior to and in the sale of the land were regular;
and the assumption of power by the District Court, nearly
three years subsequently, to restore the land, was wholly unauthorized, and was clearly error. Nor did the opening of the
decree as to the two lots, not owned by the respondent, afford
any justification for the action of the court in restoring the residue of the property, as it is settled law that a judgment may be
good in part, and bad in part, - good to the extent it is authorized by law, and bad for the residue. Bigelow v. Forest,9 Wall.
339; Day v. Mieou, 18 id. 156; Ex parte Lange, 18 id. 163.
Much discussion of the special pardon is unnecessary, as it
contained the provision that the respondent should not, "by
virtue thereof," claim any property, or the proceeds of any
property, that had been sold by the order, judgment, or decree
of a court under the confiscation laws of the United States.
Authorities to show that a pardon may be special in its character, or subject to conditions and exceptions, are quite unnecessary, as they are very numerous, and are all one way.
.Decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

MCLimoBE v. LouisIA

STATE BANx.

Where, in time of war, a bank was, notwithstanding the protest of its officers,
put in liquidation by order of the commanding general of the United States
forces, and its effects transferred to commissioners appointed by him, who,
during their administration, sold for less than their face value choses in
action held by the bank as collateral security at the time of the transfer, hdd, that as the proceedings of the commanding general and the commia.

