Oct. 1875.]

MImWAUKEE,

mc. R.R. Co. v. Aims ET AL.

M' WAU--E AND ST. PAuL RAILWAy Co

yAwv.

489

A-am

EIT AL.
1. A passenger in a railway-car who has been injured in a collision caused by the
negligence of the employis of the company, is not, as a general rule, entitled in an action against the company to recover damages beyond the
limit of compensation for the injury actually sustained.
2. Exemplary damages should not be awarded for such injury, unless i* is the
result of the wilful misconduct of the employgs of the company, or of that
reckless indifference to the rights of others which is equivalent to an intentional violation of them.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
This action against the railroad company to recover damages
for injuries received by Mrs. Arms, by reason of a collision of
a train of cars with another train, resulted in a verdict and
judgment for $4,000. The company sued out this writ of error.
The bill of exceptions discloses this state of facts: Mrs. Arms,
in October, 1870, was a passenger on defendant's train of cars,
which, while running at a speed of fourteen or fifteen miles an
hour, collided withl another train moving in an opposite direction on the same track. The jar occasioned by the collision
was light, and more of a push than a shock. The fronts of the
two engines were demolished, and a new engine removed the
train. , This was all the testimony offered by either party as to
the character of the collision, and the cause of it; but there was
evidence tending to show that irs. Arms was thrown from her
seat, and sustained the injuries of which she complained. After
the evidence had been submitted to the jury, the court gave
them the following instruction: "If you find that the accident
was caused by the gross negligence of the defendant's servants
controlling the train, you may give to the plaintiffs punitive or
exemplary damages."
Mr. John T. Cary for the plaintiff in error.
The court below erred in its charge to the jury, because there
was no testimony which warranted the submission of the ques.
tion of gross negligence for any purpose.
The undisputed facts raise the simple legal proposition, Does
the mere negligence of the defendant's servants, which resulted

490

MILWAUKEE, ETc.

R.R. Co. v. ARS ET

AL.

[Sup. Ct.

in the collision, authorize the jury to give punitive or exemplary damages?
It is submitted that the authorities support the negative of
this proposition. Philadelphia J Reading P.R. Co. v. Derby,
14 I-low. 468; Philadelphia,Wilmington, & Baltimore R.R. Co.
v. Quigley, 21 id. 202-213; Finney v. Illilwaukee &' ifississippi
P.B. Co., 10 Wis. 388; Craker v. Chicago -Yorth-western R.R.
Co., 36 id. 657; Cleghorn v. New York Central & Hudson
River .R.B Co., 56 N. Y. 44; Hamilton v. Tird Avenue B.R.
Co., 53 id. 25; Weed v. Railroad, 17 id. 362; Hagan v.
Providence & Worcester R.R. Co., 3 R. I. 88; Ackerson v. Brie
P.R. Co., 32 N. J. 254; New Orleans, Jackson, & Great -Northern P.R. Co. v. Stathan, 42 Miss. 607; Turner v. North Beach
11Mission R.R. Co., 34 Cal. 594 ; Wardrobe v. California Stage
Co., 7 id. 118; Du Laurans v. First Division of St. Paul
Pacific, 15 Minn. 49; Great Western P.R. Co. v. Miller, 19
Mich. 305-315; Pennsylvania Co. v. Kelly, 31 Penn. 372; Heil
v. Gendening, 42 id. 493; Hill v. The New Orleans & Opelousas & Great Western P.R. Co., 11 La. Ann. 292; PeoriaBridge
Association v. Loomis, 20 Ill. 235; Chicago & Bock iand
P.R. Co. v. MeKean, 40 id. 218; Louisville 6' Portland .R.R.
Co. v. Smith, 2 Duv. 556; Kentucky Central P.R. Co. v. Dills,
4 Bush, 593.
Mr. C. C. Nourse for the defendants in error.
The petition charges the plaintiff in error with gross negligence and carelessness in suffering the trains to collide. The
company offered no evidence to explain the cause of the collision.
It is not to be presumed that the cause was known to the plaintiff ; but that it was known to the company cannot be doubted,
and the absence of testimony tending to excuse or palliate it
affords the strongest possible presumption that no excuse or
palliating circumstances existed. This presents, therefore, a
case, not simply of collision, which is of itself prima facie evidence of gross negligence, but one in which the railroad company,
standing dumb in the face of an accusation and charge of gross
carelessness and negligence, offers no word of explanation or
excuse for the calamity. The jury, therefore, were fully warranted in finding negligence of the grossest character. It
remains to be considered, whether in a case of gross carelessness,

Oct. 1875.]

MMWAUKEE, ETC.

R.R. Co. v. ARms

ET AL.

491

without palliating circumstances, a railroad company is liable
for exemplary or punitive damages.
Gross negligence, where the highest degree of care is required,
should be, and from motives of public policy is, regarded as
criminal; and the elementary works furnish many instances
where it is punished as a crime. Whart. Am. Crim. Law,
sect. 1002 et seq.
In no cases is the application of this doctrine more salutary
than in those where railway companies are parties.
Recognizing this fact, the legislatures of many of the States
have prescribed severe punishment for negligence in the management of trains upon railways.
"Gross negligence," as used in this connection, has acquired
a meaning in the law akin to wantonness. In general, it is
defined to be the absence of slight diligence. Bouvier, tit.
"1Negligence." It is utter recklessness. Gross negligence of a
railway company in the management of its passenger trains is
nothing less than an utter disregard of human life; and public
policy requires that it should be so considered.
The liability of railway and other corporations to exemplary
"pdamages for gross negligence is a well-settled question.
Taylor
R.R.
Co.,
36
N.
H.
9;
v.
Atlantic
St.
L&awrence
kins
v. Railway Co., 48 id. 804, 818; Goddard v. Grand Trunk
_.R. Co., 57 Mle. 202 (also reported in Am. Law Reg., vol. x.
p. 17); Redf. on Railw. 515 et seq.; Shearm. & Redf. on
Neg., sect. 600; ew Orleans, Jackson, & Great Northern ._.
Co. v. Albritton, 86 Miss. 242; Same v. Bailey, 40 id. 895;
F. & T...R. Co. v. Patton, 81 id. 156; M. & C. B.R. Co.
v. Whitfield, 44 id. 466; Louisville, Cinn., & Lex. .B. Co.
Gt. Western R.R.
G'
v. 3iahony, 7 Bush (Ky.), 235; Atlantic
Co. v. Dunn, 19 Ohio St. 162; Pittsburgh -_Ft. Wayne B.R.
Co. v. Slusser, id. 157; 57 Penn. St. 339; Baltimore ,p Ohio
B.R. Co. v. Blocher, 27 Md. 277; Williamson v. The Western
Stage Co., 24 Iowa, 171; Trick & Co. v. Coe, 4 G. Greene,
555; Chicago J_Bock Island P.R. Co. v. lteean, 40 Ill. 218;
C. P. I. & P. B.R. Co. v. Herring,57 id. 59. See also Spicer v.
C. & Y W. R.R. Co., 29 Wis. 580.
The right to recover exemplary damages has been expressly
recognized by this court. Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363
Philadelphiaand Reading P.P. Co. v. Derby, 14 How. 468.

492

MILWAUKEE, ETC. R.R. Co. v. A-uIS ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

In Varillat v. The New Orleans . Carollton B.R. Co., 10 La.
Ann. 88, the court place stress upon the fact that there was no
evidence to explain the cause of the collision, and sustain a verdict for exemplary damages.
MR. JUSTICE; DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The court doutless assumed, in its instructions to the jury,
that the mere collision of two railroad trains is, ipso facto, evidence of gross negligence on the part of the employ~s of the
company, justifying the assessment of exemplary damages; for
a collision could not well occur under less aggravated circumstances, or cause slighter injury. Neither train was thrown
from the track, and the effect of the collision was only to
demolish the fronts of the two locomotives. It did not even
produce the "shock" which usually results from a serious collision. The train on which Mrs. Arms was riding was moving
at a very moderate rate of speed; and the other train must
have been nearly, if not quite, stationary. There was nothing,
therefore, save the fact that a collision happened, upon which
to charge negligence upon the company. This was enough to
entitle Mrs. Arms to full compensatory damages; but the
inquiry is, whether the jury had a right to go farther, and give
exemplary damages.
It is undoubtedly true that the allowance of any thing more
than an adequate pecuniary indemnity for a wrong suffered is a
great departure from the principle on which damages in civil
suits are awarded. But although, as a general rule, the plaintiff
recovers merely such indemnity, yet the doctrine is too well
settled now to be shaken, that exemplary damages may in certain cases be assessed. As the question of intention is always
material in an action of tort, and as the circumstances which
characterize the transaction are, therefore, proper to be weighed
by the jury in fixing the compensation of the injured party, it
may well be considered whether the doctrine of exemplary
damages cannot be reconciled with the idea, that compensation
alone is the true measure of redress.
But jurists have chosen to place this doctrine on the ground,
not that the sufferer is to be recompensed, but that the offender
is to be punished; and, although some text-writers and courts

Oct. 1875.]

MLAnWAUKEE, Ewa. R.R. Co. v. Ams

r AL.

48

have questioned its soundness, it has been accepted as the
general rule in England and in most of the States of this
country. 1 Redf. on Railw. 576; Sedg, on Measure of Dam.,
4th ed., ch. 18 and note, where the cases are collected and reviewed. It has also received the sanction of this court. Discussed and recognized in Dayj v. Woodworth, 13 How. 371, it was
more accurately stated in The Philadelphia,Wilmington, &. Baltimore R.1?. Comyany v. Quigley, 21 How. 213. One of the errors
assigned was that the Circuit Court did not place any limit on
the power of the jury to give -exemplary damages, if in their
opinion they were called for. Mr. Justice Campbell) who
'delivered the opinion of the court, said, "In -Dayv. Foodworththis court recognized the power of the
jury in certain actions of tort to assess against the tort-feasor punitive or exemplary damages. Whenever the injury complained of has
been inflicted maliciously or wantonly, and with circumstances of
contumely or indignity, the jury are not limited to the asoertainment
of a simple compensation for the wrong committed against the
aggrieved person. But the malice spoken of in this rule is not
merely the doing of an unlawful or injurious act: the word implies that the wrong complained of was conceived in the spirit of
mischief, or criminal indifference to civil obligations."
As nothing of this kind, under the evidence, could be imputed to the defendants, the judgment was reversed.
Although this rule was announced in an action for libel, it is
equally applicable to suits for personal injuries received through
the negligence of others. Redress commensurate to such injuries should be afforded. In ascertaining its extent, the jury
may consider all the facts which relate to the wrongful act of
the defendant, and its consequences to the plaintiff; but they
are not at liberty to go farther, unless it was done wilfully, or
was the result of that reckless indifference to the rights of
others which is equivalent to an intentional violation of them.
In that case, the jury are authorized, for the sake of public
example, to give such additional damages as the circumstances
require. The tort is aggravated by the evil motive, and on this
rests the rule of exemplary damages.
It is insisted, however, that, where there is "gross negligence," the jury can properly give exemplary damages. There

494

MILWAU-KEE, Ec. R.R. Co. v. AmIs ET AL..

[Sup. Ct.

are many cases to this effect. The difficulty is, that they do
not define the term with any accuracy; and, if it be made the
criterion by which to determine the liability of the carrier
beyond the limit of indemnity, it would seem that a precise
meaning should be given to it. This the courts have been
embarrassed in doing, and this court has expressed its disapprobation of these attempts to fix the degrees of negligence
by legal definitions. In The Steamboat New World v. King
(16 How. 474), Mr. Justice Curtis, in speaking of the three
degrees of negligence, says,"It may be doubted if these terms can be usefully applied in
practice. Their meaning is not fixed, or capable of being so. One
degree thus described not only may be confounded with another,
but it is quite impracticable exactly to distinguish them. Their
signification necessarily varies according to circumstances ; to whose
influence the courts have been forced to yield, until there are so
many real exceptions, that the rules themselves can scarcely be said
to have a general operation. If the law furnishes no definition of
the terms ' gross negligence' or ' ordinary negligence' which can be
applied in practice, but leaves it to the july to determine in each
case what the duty was, and what omissions amount to a breach of
it, it would seem that imperfect and confessedly unsuccessful attempts to define that duty had better be abandoned."
Some of the highest English courts have come to the conclusion that there is no intelligible distinction between ordinary
and gross negligence. Redf. on Car., sect. 376. Lord Cranworth, in Wilson v. Brett (11 MI. & W. 113), said that gross
negligence is ordinary negligence with a vituperative epithet;
and the Exchequer Chamber took the same view of the subject.
Beal v. South Devon Railway Co., 3 H. & C. 327. In the
Common Pleas, Grill v. General Iron Screw Collier Co. (Law
Reps., C. P. 1, 1865-66) was heard on appeal. One of the
points raised was the supposed misdirection of the Lord Chief
Justice who tried the case, because he had made no distinction between gross and ordinary negligence. Justice Willes,
in deciding the point, after stating his agreement with the dictum of Lord Cranworth, said, "Confusion has arisen from regarding ' negligence' as a positive
instead of a negative word. It is really the absence of such care

Oct. 1875.]

MILWAUKEE,

urC. R.R. Co. v. Aims

AL.

495

as it was the duty of the defendant to use. ' Gross' is a word of
description, and not of definition; and it would have been only introducing a source of confusion to use the expression ' gross negligence' instead of the equivalent, - a want of due care and skill
in navigating the vessel, which was again and again used by the
Lord Chief Justice in his summing up."
"Gross negligence" is a relative term. It is doubtless to be
understood as meaning a greater want of care than is implied
by the term "ordinary negligence;" but, after all, it means the
absence of the care that was necessary under the circumstances.
In this sense the collision in controversy was the result of gross
negligence, because the employds of the company did not use
the care that was required to avoid the accident. But the absence of this care, whether called gross or ordinary negligence,
did not authorize the jury to visit the company with damages
beyond the limit of compensation for the injury actually inflicted. To do this, there must have been some wilful misconduct, or that entire want of care which would raise the
presumption of a conscious indifference to consequences. Nothing of this kind can be imputed to the persons in charge of the
train; and the court, therefore, misdirected the jury.
.Forthis reason the judgment is reversed, and a new trial
ordered.
Western Union Telegraph Company v. Eyser, in error to the SuNOTE. -In
preme Court of the Territory of Colorado, it appears from the evidence
embodied in the bill of exceptions that the accident which caused the injury to
the defendant in error occurred at the corner of F and Blake Streets, in Denver.
Col., at which point the agents of the plaintiff in error were engaged in erecting
the wire which they had stretched across Blake Street, some two feet above the
ground; that Eyser rode down that street on horseback, and, when near the

wire, one of the bystanders called to him, warning him, but that the horse, having
become entangled in the wire, fell to the ground, thereby causing the injuries

complained of.
It does not appear that the plaintiff in error adopted any special means of
warning; but the person in charge of the work testifies that he instructed the
workmen "to keep people off the wire."
Upon the question of exemplary damages, the court instructed the jury as
follows:"If. the defendant's agents and servants, acting within the scope of their
authority from defendant, were engaged in constructing a telegraph line in the
city of Denver, and in such construction stretched a wire across one of the publie and frequented streets of said city during the hours of the day when sucl-

