Oct. 1875.]

OYSTER v. GAF

ET AL.

The prior executions - one in favor of A. Coran & Co. for
about $600, and the other in favor of Henry Bloss for about
$900 -were probably valid. If the appellees satisfied those
executions, or advanced the money for that purpose, the amount
being embraced in their judgment, their own execution was
good to that extent, and they should have credit therefor. As
to the rest, they were answerable for the value of the goods
levied on and sold.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the record
remitted, with directions to enter a decree in favor of the
complainant below for the value of the goods of the bankrupt
sold on the defendants' execution, with interestfrom the time
that the same was demanded of them by the assignee, less the
amount to which they may be justly entitled for advances to
satisfy the said executions of A. Coran & Co. and H7enry
Bloss.

EyST

v. GAFF ET AL.

1. Where the assignee in bankruptcy of a mortgagor is appointed during the
pendency of proceedings for the foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged
premises, he stands as any other purchaser would stand on whom the title
has fallen after the commencement of the suit. If there be any reason for
interposing, the assignee should have himself substituted for the bankrupt,
or be made a defendant on petition.
2. A court cannot take judicial notice of the proceedings in bankruptcy in an.
other court; and it is its duty to proceed as between the parties before it,
until, by some proper pleadings in the case, it is informed of the changed
relations of any of such parties to the subject-matter of the suit.
8. The jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal courts for the benefit of an assignee in bankruptcy is concurrent with and does not divest that of the State
courts in suits of which they had full cognizance.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.

3r. John A. Wills for the plaintiff in error.
The court declined to hear Hr. S. Shellabargerfor the defendant in error.

MR. JusTICE MI.LER delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was an action of ejectment brought originally by
Thomas and James Gaff against plaintiff in error in the District

EYSTER v. GAFF ET AL.

[Sup. Ct,

Court of Arrapahoe County, Colorado, in which the plaintiffs
below had a recovery, and that judgment was affirmed on appeal
by the Supreme Court of that Territory.
The title to certain lots in Denver City is the subject of controversy; and there seems to be no difficulty in considering
George W. McClure as the source of title, common to plaintiffs
and defendant. McClure had made a mortgage on the lots to
defendants in error to secure payment of the sum of $18,000.
A suit to foreclose this mortgage was instituted in the District Court in 1868, which proceeded to a decree and sale, and
plaintiffs became the purchasers, receiving the master's deed,
which was duly confirmed by the court.
This decree was rendered July 1, 1870. On the ninth day
of May preceding, the mortgagor, McClure, filed a petition in
bankruptcy, and on the eleventh day of May he was adjudged
a bankrupt, and on the fourth day of June John Mechling was
duly appointed assignee. The bankrupt filed schedules in
which these lots and the mortgage of the Gaffs on them were
set out. It will thus be seen, that, pending the foreclosure proceedings which had been instituted against McClure, he had
been declared a bankrupt, and Mechling had been appointed
his assignee; and that the decree of sale and foreclosure under
which plaintiffs asserted title in the present suit was rendered
about a month after the appointment of the assignee, and nearly
two months after the adjudication that McClure was a bankrupt. The defendant in the ejectment-suit was a tenant under
McClure, and defends his possessibn on the ground of the invalidity of the foreclosure proceedings after the adjudication of
bankruptcy and the appointment of the assignee.
The plaintiffs in this suit seem to have relied at first upon the
right to recover under the mortgage, and did not give in evidence the proceedings in foreclosure; but when the defendant
had read them, so far as the decree and sale, in order to show
that the mortgage was merged, the plaintiffs then produced
the master's deed. The Supreme Court of Colorado held that
the mortgage alone was sufficient to sustain the action, one of the
judges dissenting; and the counsel for defendant below insists
here that this was error, because the laws of Colorado give to
a mortgage only the effect of an equitable lien, and not that of

Oct. 1875.]

EYsTE.

v. GAFF ET AL.

conveying a legal title. He also insists that all the proceedings
in the foreclosure-suit after the appointment of the assignee
in bankruptcy are absolutely void, because he was not made a
defendant.,
We will consider this latter proposition first; for, if the foreclosure proceedings conveyed a valid title to plaintiffs, the
judgment must be affirmed, whatever may be the true solution
of the question of local law.
It may be conceded for the purposes of the present case that
the strict legal title to the land did not pass by the mortgage,
and that it did pass to the assignee upon his appointment; and
consequently, if that title was not divested by the foreclosure
proceedings, it was in the assignee at the trial of the ejectment-suit. On the other hand, if these proceedings did transfer
the legal title to plaintiffs, they were entitled to recover as they
did in that action.
At the time that suit was commenced, the mortgagor, McClure, was vested with the title, and was the proper and necessary defendant. Whether any other persons were proper
defendants does not appear, nor is it material to inquire. "But
for the bankruptcy of McClure, there can be no doubt that the
sale under the foreclosure-decree and the deed of the master
would have vested the title in the purchaser, and that this
would have related back to the date of the mortgage. Nor can
there be any question, that, the suit having been commenced
against McClure when the title or equity of redemption (no
difference which it is) was in him, any person who bought of
him, or took his title or any interest he had pending the suit,
would have been bound by the proceedings, and their rights
foreclosed by the decree and sale. These are elementary principles. Is there any thing in the Bankrupt Law, or in the
nature of proceedings in bankruptcy, which takes the interest
in the mortgaged property acquired by the assignee out of this
rule ?
There is certainly no express provision to that effect. It is
maintained by counsel, that, because the assignee is vested by
the assignment under the statute with the legal title, there
remains nothing from that time for the decree of foreclosure
to operate on, and it cannot thereafter have the effect of trans-

EYSTER v. GAFF MTAL.

[Sup. Ot.

ferring the title which is in a party not before the court. But,
if this be true in this case, it must be equally true in other suits
in which the title is transferred pendente lite.
We have already said, and no authority is necessary to
sustain the proposition, that a sale and conveyance by the
mortgagor pending the suit would not prevent the court from
proceeding with the case without the purchaser, nor affect the
title of him who bought under the decree. So, in a suit against
the vendor of real estate for specific performance, his conveyance of the legal title after suit was brought would not suspend
the proceeding or defeat the title under the decree of the court.
The obvious reason for this is, that if, when the jurisdiction of
the court has once attached, it could be ousted by the transfer
of the defendant's interest, there would be no end to the litigation, and justice would be defeated by the number of these
transfers. Another reason is, that, when such a suit is ended by
a final decree transferring the title, that title relates back to the
date of the instrument on which the suit is based, or to the
commencement of the suit; and the court will not permit its
judgment or decree to be rendered nugatory by intermediate
conveyances.
We see no reason why the same principle should not apply
to the transfer made by a bankruptcy proceeding. The Bankrupt Act expressly provides that the assignee may prosecute
or defend all suits in which the bankrupt was a party at the
time he was adjudged a bankrupt. If there was any reason for
interposing, the assignee could have had himself substituted for
the bankrupt, or made a defendant on petition. If he chose to
let the suit proceed without such defence, he stands as any
other person would on whom the title had fallen since the suit
was commenced.
It is a mistake to suppose that the Bankrupt Law avoids of its
own force all judicial proceedings in the State or other courts
the instant one of the parties is adjudged a bankrupt. There
is nothing in the act which sanctions such a proposition.
The court in the case before us had acquired jurisdiction of
the parties and of the subject-matter of the suit. It was competent to administer full justice, and was proceeding, according
to the law which governed such a suit, to do so. It could not

Oct. 1875.]

EYSTER V. GAFF ET AL.

take judicial notice of the proceedings in bankruptcy in another
court, however seriously they might have affected. the rights of
parties to the suit already pending.
It was the duty of that court to proceed to a decree as between
the parties before it, until by some proper pleadings in the case
it was informed of the changed relations of any of those parties
to the subject-matter of the suit. Having such jurisdiction,
and performing its duty as the case stood in that court, we are
at a loss to see how its decree can be treated as void. It
is almost certain, that if at any stage of the proceeding, before
sale or final confirmation, the assignee had intervened, he would
have been heard to assert any right he had, or set up any
defence to the suit. The mere filing in the court of a certificate of his appointment as assignee, with no plea or motion to
be made a party or to take part in the case, deserved. no attention, and received none. In the absence of any appearance by
the assignee, the validity of the decree can only be impeached
on the principle that the adjudication of bankruptcy divested
the other court of all jurisdiction whatever in the foreclosuresuit. The opinion seems to have been quite prevalent in many
quarters at one time, that, the moment a man is declared bankrupt, the District Court which has so adjudged draws to itself
by that act not only all control of the bankrupt's property and
credits, but that no one can litigate with the assignee contested
rights in any other court, except in so far as the circuit courts
have concurrent jurisdiction, and that other courts can proceed
no further in suits of which they had at that time full cognizance; and it was a prevalent practice to bring any person, who
contested with the assignee any matter growing out of disputed
rights of property or of contracts, into the bankrupt court by
the service of a rule to show cause, and to dispose of their
rights in a summary way. This court has steadily set its face
against this view.
The debtor of a bankrupt, or the man who contests the right
to real or personal property with him, loses none of those rights
by the bankruptcy of his adversary.
The same courts remain open to him in such contests, and
the statute has not divested those courts of jurisdiction in such
actions. If it has for certain classes of actions conferred a

526

GOuLD

v. EVANSVILLE,

Ec.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

jurisdiction for the benefit of the assignee in the circuit and
district courts of the United States, it is concurrent with and
does not divest that of the State courts.
These propositions dispose of this case. They are supported
by the following cases decided in this court: Smith v. Mason,
14 Wall. 419; Marshall v. Ifnox, 16 id. 501; Maya v. Frtton,
20 id. 414; Doe v. Childress, 21 id. 642. See also Bishop v.
Johnson, Woolworth, 324.
Judgment affirmed.

Go=

v. EVA1SViLL-E

AND CRAWFORDSViLLE

R.R. Co.

If judgment is rendered for the defendant on demurrer to the declaration, or to
a material pleading in chief, the plaintiff can never after maintain against
the same defendant or his privies any similar or concurrent action for the
same cause upon the same grounds as were disclosed in the first declaration;
ut, if the plaintiff fails on demurrer in his first action from the omission of
an essential allegation. in his declaration which is supplied in the second suit,
the judgment in the first suit is not a bar to the second.

ERR oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
This was an action brought by the plaintiff in error against
the defendant to recover the amount of a judgment rendered by
the Supreme Court of the State of New York in favor of the
plairtiff's testator against the defendant corporation.
TI a defendant pleaded in bar a judgment in its favor on
demb ".er to the declaration, in a suit brought on the same
cause of action in the Knox Circuit Court of Indiana.
A .,,murrer to this plea was overruled: whereupon the plaintiff b, low replied, alleging material differences between the
facts stated in the declaration in this case and those stated in
the declaration in the case in the Knox Circuit Court, claiming
that the judgment on demurrer to the declaration in the Knox
Circuit Court was not a judgment on the merits. To this
replication a demurrer was sustained, and the plaintiff below
excepted.
The merits of the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.

