BARNES v.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

of the auditors made at an irregular meeting, the relator would
be still further delayed, as the writ in this case operates on the
auditors, and not on the clerk. In order to avoid the delay, if
nothing more, which would occur if such a question were raised,
it is advisable that the auditors be required to meet at a time
authorized by the statute.
Tire judgment of the Circuit Court will therefore be modified,
so as to direct the board to assemble at their next regular
semi-annual meeting and allow said judgment.

BARx-ES v. DISTRICT OF COLUMIA.
I. A municipal corporation in the exercise of its duties is a department of the
State. Its powers may be large or small: they may be increased or diminished from time to time at the pleasure of the State, or the State may itself
directly exercise in any locality all the powers usually conferred upon such
a corporation. Such changes do not alter its fundamental character.
2. The statement that a municipality acts only through its agents does not
mean that it so acts through subordinate agents only. It may act through
its mayor or its common council, its superintendent of streets, or its board
of public works.
8. Whether the persons thus acting are appointed by the governor or president,
or are elected by the people, does not affect the question whether they are
or are not parts of the corporation and its agents. Nor is it important, on
that question, from what source they receive their compensation.
4. The act of Congress of Feb. 21, 1871 (16 Stat. 419), creates a "municipal
corporation" called "The District of Columbia." It provides for the appointment of an executive officer called a governor, and for a legislative
assembly. It creates a board of public works, which is invested with the
entire control of the streets of the District, their regulation and repair; and
is composed of the governor of the District and four other persons appointed
by the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate, to hold their offices for the term of four years, unless sooner
removed by the President. The board is empowered to disburse all moneys
appropriated by Congress or the District, or collected from property-holders
in pursuance of law, for the improvement of streets, avenues, &c.; and is
required to make a report to the legislative assembly of the District, and to
the governor, who is directed to lay the same before the President for
transmission to Congress. Held, that the board of public works is not an
independent body acting for itself, but is a part of the municipal corporation ; and that the District of Columbia is responsible to an individual who
has suffered injury from the defective and negligent condition of its streets
Heldfurther, that a municipal corporation, holding a voluntary charter as a
city or village, is responsible for its mere negligence in the care and man-

Oct. 1875.]

BARNES v. DimcT OF COLUMBIA.

agement of its streets. In this respect, there is a distinction between the
liability of such a corporation and that of a quasi corporation like a county,
town, or district. Whether or not this distinction is founded on sound principle, it is too well settled to be disturbed.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This is an action to recover damages for a personal injury
received by the plaintiff on the 14th of October, 1871, in consequence of the defective condition of one of the streets of the
city of Washington. The accident occurred on K Street east,
and arose from the construction of the Baltimore and Potomac
Railroad through that street. The road was built by permission
of the corporation, and authority was given to the company to
change the grade of the streets according to a plan filed. In
making this change, a deep pit or excavation was made, into
which the plaintiff fell. The questions touching the plaintiff's
injury, the defective condition of the street, and the negligence
of those having it in charge, were submitted to the jury, and
the issue upon each of them was found in favor of the plaintiff. The verdict of the jury, by which they awarded to him
the sum of three thousand five hundred dollars as damages, besides his costs, and the judgment thereon, were set aside at the
general term of the Supreme Court of the District, and judgment was ordered in favor of the defendant. From this judgment the present writ of error was brought.
Mr. Edwin L. Stanton for the defendant in error.
The charter of the old corporation having been repealed by
the act of Feb. 21, 1871, its ordinance granting permission to
the railroad company to construct its road was irrelevant in
this case, as the District of Columbia is not responsible for
the acts of that corporation. The right to pass along the
streets having, independently of the municipal ordinance, been
granted by Congress to the company, it was obliged to conform to the grade of the streets, unless Congress authorized a
different level. The District had no power whatever to act in
the matter.
Whether this action is maintainable against the District of
Columbia depends upon the terms and conditions of its charter.
Weig7ltman v. The Corporationof Waghington, 1 Black, 50.
Prior to the passage of the act of Feb. 21, 1871, the corpora.

BARNES v. DISTRICT OF COLU BIA.

[Sup. 0t.

tion of the city of Washington had, under congressional enactments, full power and authority to open and keep in repair the
streets, alleys, &c., agreeably to the plan of the city; but this
act intrusts no control whatever over the streets and avenues
to the new corporation, but vests it in a Federal commission
authorized to make all regulations which it might deem necessary for keeping them in repair. The act prescribed the powers
of the board of public works as distinctly as it did those of
other officers, and made it independent of the legislative assembly in respect to the authority committed to it by Congress.
That this entire control of the streets and avenues, with
power to make all regulations which it should deem necessary
for keeping the same in repair, was committed to the board of
public works, not as a department or subordinate agency of the
municipality called the District of Columbia, but as a Federal
commission, is clearly shown by the legislation of Congress.
Its members were appointed by the President of the United
States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The
acts of May 8, 1872 (17 Stat. 74), and March 3, 1878 (id. 499,
500), and sect. 76 of the Revised Statutes relating to the District of Columbia, providing for the salaries of the members of
the board of public works and other officers of the District,
enact that no part of the sums thereby appropriated shall be
paid to any member of such board "who shall hold any other
Federal office," or "who is paid a salary for the discharge of the
duties of any other Federal office, under the government of the
United States."
The act of June 20, 1874 (18 Stat. 116), abolishing the
office of governor, secretary, board of public works, delegate in Congress, and also the legislative assembly, distinguishes between the accounting officers, other officials, laborers,
employ6s, and the indebtedness of the District, and those of the
board of public works. This distinction is also made by the
acts of Congress of June 10, 1872 (17 Stat. 350, 351), April 20,
1871 (id. 7), Jan. 8, 1873 (id. 405, 406), and June 23, 1874
(18 id. 210).
The conclusion is thus reached, that by the act of Feb. 21,
1871, the entire control over the streets and avenues, which axe

Oct. 1875.]

BARhmS v. DisTRicT OF COLUMBIA.

the property of the United States, was given to a Federal commission, with exclusive power to make such regulations as it
might deem necessary for keeping the same in repair.
Liability on the part of a municipal corporation for the neg
lect or omission of a corporate duty springs from the particular
nature of the duty enjoined, and from the means given for its
performance, which must be ample. The duty must relate to
the local interests of the municipality, and be imperative, and
not discretionary or judicial. Weig7itman v. The Corporation
of Wasldngton, 1 Black, 50; Dill. on Munic. Corp., sect. 765.
Here the duty was not enjoined, nor were the means given.
Therefore the liability for injury resulting from neglect of duty,
if it exists at all, must appear, upon a fair review of the charter
or statutes, to rest upon the municipal corporation as such, and
not upon it as an agency of the State, nor upon its officers as
independent public officers. Dill. on funic. Corp., sects. 772,
789; C/ild v. City of Boston, 4 Allen, 41; Walcott v. Swampscott, 1 id. 101; 3lartin v. Mayor of Brookly]n, 1 Hill, 550;
Detroit v. Blakely, 21 Mich. 84; 9 Am. Law Reg. 680, n.
hJfr. W. D. Davidge and Hr. B. X. -Elliot,contra.
MR.JUSTICE HuxT delivered the opinion of the court.

The municipal corporation, "The District of Columbia," was
organized under the act of Congress of Feb. 21, 1871. 16 Stat.
419.
The first section of the act creates a municipal corporation by
the name of "The District of Columbia,'? with power to sue, be
sued, contract, have a seal, and "exercise all other powers of a
municipal corporation, not inconsistent with the laws and constitution of the United States and the provisions of this act."
By sect. 2 the executive power is vested in a governor, to be
appointed by the President, with the consent of the Senate,
and to hold his office for four years. Bills passed by the counil,
and house of delegates, were to be presented to him for approval or rejection.
A secretary of the District is also provided for, whose duties
are specified. The legislative power in the District is vested in
two bodies, -'a council, and house of delegates, - called a legislative assemb15 ; which power it was in the eighteenth section

BARNES

V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

declared should "extend to all rightful subjects of legislation
within said District, consistent with the Constitution of the
United States and the provisions of this act."
It is enacted that the President, with the consent of the Senate, shall appoint a board of health, consisting of five persons,
whose duties are pointed out. The salaries of the governor and
secretary are prescribed, and are to be paid "at the treasury
of the United States." The salaries of the members of the legislative assembly are prescribed; but it is not declared where or
how or by whom they shall be paid, unless they are included
in the general terms of sect. 38.
By the thirty-seventh section it is provided that there shall
be a "board of public works, to consist of the governor and four
other persons to be appointed by the President, with the consent of the Senate, who shall have entire control of and make
all regulations which they shall deem necessary for keeping in
repair the streets, avenues, and alleys and sewers of the city,
and all other works which may be intrusted to their charge by
the legislative assembly or Congress." They are also required
to disburse the money collected for such purposes, and to make
an annual report of their proceedings to the legislative assembly, and to furnish a duplicate of the same to the governor.
The charters of the cities of Washington and Georgetown are
declared to be repealed, except that they are continued in force
for certain specified purposes not necessary to be here considered.
The statute creating this corporation, in its first section,
declares it to be a body corporate, not only with power to contract, to sue and be sued, and to have a seal, but also that it is
a body corporate for municipal purposes, and that it shall exercise all other powers of a municipal corporation, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the United States and
the provisions of this act.
A municipal corporation, in the exercise of all of its duties,
including those most strictly local or internal, is but a department of the State. The legislature may give it all the powers
such a being is capable of receiving, making it a miniature
State within its locality. Again: it may strip it of every power,
leaving it a corporation in name only; and it may create and

Oct. 1875.]

BARNs v.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

recreate these changes as often as it chooses, or it may itself
exercise directly within the locality any or all the powers
usually committed to a municipality. We do not regard its
acts as sometimes those of an agency of the State, and at others
those of a municipality; but that, its character and nature remaining at all times the same, it is great or small according as
the legislature shall extend or contract the sphere of its action.
In his work on Municipal Corporations (sect. 835), Judge
Dillon says, "As the highways of a State, including streets in
cities, are under the paramount and primary control of the legislature, and as all municipal powers are derived from the legislature, it follows that the authority of municipalities over
streets, and the uses to which they may be put, depends entirely
upon their charter, or legislative enactments applicable to
them. It is usual in this country for the legislature to confer
upon municipal corporations very extensive powers in respect to
streets and public ways within their limits, and the uses to
which they may be appropriated. The authority to open, care
for, regulate, and improve streets, taken in connection with the
other powers usually granted, give to municipal corporations all
needed authority to keep the streets free from obstructions and
to prevent improper uses, and to ordain ordinances to this
end."
A corporation can act only by its agents or servants. This
obvious truth does not imply that the acts must be done by
inferior or subordinate agents, but, on the contrary, the higher
the authority of the agent, the more evident is the responsibility
of the principal. While a State may be represented in various
ways, no one will doubt that its act, when declared through the
means of its legislature or its governor within their respective
spheres, is more emphatically obligatory upon it than when
made known through its inferior departments.
A municipal corporation may act through its mayor, through
its common council, or its legislative department by whatever
name called, its superintendent of streets, commissioner of
highways, or board of public works, provided the act is within
the province committed to its charge. Nor can it in principle be
of the slightest consequence by what means these several officers are placed in their position, - whether they are elected by
VOL. I.

35

BARNES V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

the people of the municipality, or appointed by the President or
a governor. The people are the recognized source of all authority, state and municipal; and to this authority it must come at
last, whether immediately or by a circuitous process.
An elected mayor or an appointed mayor derives his authority to act from the same source; to wit, that of the legislature.
The whole municipal authority emanates from the legislature.
Its legislative charter indicates its extent, and regulates the
distribution of its powers as well as the manner of selecting
and compensating its agents. The judges of the Supreme Court
of a State may be appointed by the governor with the consent
of the senate, or they may be elected by the people. But the
powers and duties of the judges are not affected by the manner
of their selection. The mayor of a city may be elected by the
people, or he may be appointed by the governor with the consent of the senate; but the slightest reflection will show that the
powers of this officer, his position as the chief agent and representative of the city, are the same under either mode of appointment. Whether his act in a case in question is the act of and
binding on the city depends upon his powers under the charter
to act for the city, and whether he has acted in pursuance of
them, not at all upon the manner of his election. It is equally
unimportant from what source he receives compensation, or
whether he serves without it.
When the question is, whether an individual is acting for himself or for another, the inquiry whether that other directed him
to do the work and controlled its performance, and whether lie
promised to pay him for his service, may be important in determining that question. In a case like the one before us, where
all the actors are in some form under the same authority, where
all are created by the same legislature, and it is a question of
the distribution of conceded power, these suggestions are unimportant.
Nor are these by any means conclusive considerations in any
case. A striking instance to the contrary is found in the case
of Die Chdna, 7 Wall. 53. it is there held, that although the
master of the vessel is bound to take a pilot on board his vessel,
and bound to take the first one offering his services, the owners
are responsible for a collision caused by the negligence of the
pilot thus in charge of the vessel.

Oct. 1875.]

BARNEs

V. DISTRICT OF OOLUmBIA.

In the case of the municipal corporation before us, we have
no doubt that the governor and the legislative department are
equally representatives and agents of that body, unaffected by
the circumstance that the one is appointed by the President
and the others are elected by the people; or that the one is
paid from one source, and the others from another source.
They are severally members and parts of a municipal corporation, whose charter emanates from the Congress of the United
States, and by which their powers and authority are conferred
or defined.
Whether the board of public works is also a part of and an
agency of the municipal corporation is the question before us.
1. The authorities state, and our own knowledge is to the
effect, that the care and superintendence of streets, alleys, and
highways, the regulation of grades, and the opening of new and
closing of old streets, are peculiarly municipal duties. No other
power can so wisely and judiciously control this subject as the
authority of the immediate locality where the work is to be
done. Accordingly, although complaints are often made of
corruption and venality, as they are, indeed, of all public functionaries, and attempts made to substitute other agencies, the
general judgment of the country has always accepted the
municipal organization as the one subject to the least objection for the execution of this duty. In inquiring, therefore,
where this power was vested in a particular case, we should
expect to find that it was given to the municipality.
2. The act of Congress of Feb. 21, 1871, is entitled "An
Act to provide a government for the District of Columbia,"
and its intention is to accomplish that end by the means of a
municipal corporation called "The District of Columbia." The
powers given to it are to contract, sue and be sued, to have a
seal, and all other powers of a municipal corporation, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the United States
or the provisions of this act. The powers thus given are to be
exercised by the means and agencies in the act specified; and,
unless these means and agencies do represent the corporation,
it has nothing, and does nothing. It is a nonentity. The first
of these is the existence of a governor, who is invested with the
executive power in and over the District of Columbia. This

]3ARiEs v. DIsTRIcT OF COLUMhIBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

office is a large type of a mayoralty; and his acts or declarations, or notices or services upon him, within the sphere of
executive authority, are those of or upon the municipal corporation.
The legislative assembly also is a large edition of a common
council, and is the especial power and organ of the municipality
in regulating its ordinary business and affairs.
The thirty-seventh section defines and locates the power to
regulate and repair the streets and highways of the District of
Columbia. The persons there referred to are invested with
the entire control of the streets, their regulation and iepair.
It is declared that there shall be "a board of public works,"
of whom the chief agent of the city corporation-viz., the governor - shall be one, and four other persons to be nominated
by the President; and to this board is given the power specified.
The full text of the section is as follows: BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.

"SECT. 37. And be it further enacted, That there shall be in the
District of Columbia a board of public works, to consist of the
governor, who shall be president of said board ; four persons, to be
appointed by the President of the United States, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, one of whom shall be a civil
engineer, and the others citizens and residents of the District, having the qualifications of an elector therein. One of said board shall
be a citizen and resident of Georgetown, and one of said board
shall be a citizen and resident of the county outside of the cities
of Washington and Georgetown. They shall hold office for the
term of four years, unless sooner removed by the President of the
United States. The board of public works shall have entire control of and make all regulations which they shall deem necessary
for keeping in repair the streets, avenues, alleys, and sewers of the
city, and all other works which may be intrusted to their charge
by the legislative assembly or Congress.
"They shall disburse upon their warrant all moneys appropriated
by the United States or the District of Columbia, or collected from
property-holders in pursuance of law, for the improvement of
streets, avenues, alleys and sewers, and roads and bridges; and shall
assess, in such manner as shall be prescribed by law, upon the property adjoining and to be specially benefited by the improvements
authorized by law and made by them, a reasonable proportion of

Oct. 1875.]

BARNES

v.

DISmRI=T OF COLUMBIA.

the cost of the improvement, not exceeding one-third of such cost,
which sum shall be collected as all other taxes are collected.
"They shall make all necessary regulations respecting the construction of private buildings in the District of Columbia, subject
to the supervision of the legislative assembly.
"All contracts made by the said board of public works shall be
in writing, and shall be signed bythe parties making the same, and
a copy thereof shall be filed in the office of the secretary of the
District; and said board of public works shall have no power to
make contracts to bind said District to the payment of any sums of
money except in pursuance of appropriations made by law, and hot
until such appropriations shall have been made. All contracts madg
by said board, in which any member of said board shall be person
ally interested, shall be void; and no payment shall be made thereon
by said District, or any officers thereof. On or before the first Monday in November of each year, they shall submit to each branch of
the legislative assembly a report of their transactions during the
preceding year, and also furnish duplicates of the same to the governor, to be by him laid before the President of the United States
for transmission to the two Houses of Congress; and shall be paid
the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars each annually."
1. The four persons composing this board are nominated by
the President, and hold their offices for a fixed period of time.
They cannot be removed except by the President of the United
States. The same thing is true of the governor and of the
secretary of the District; except that, as to them, there is no
power of removal. Each is appointed in the same manner, and
holds until the expiration of his term and until his successor is
qualified. The same is true, also, of the members of the council, except that their term is of shorter duration. It is true,
also, in relation to the house of delegates, except that they are
elected by the people, and hold their offices for a fixed term of
one year. We have already endeavored to show that it is quite
immaterial, on the question whether this board is a municipal
agency, from what source the power comes to these officers, whether by appointment of the President, or by the legislative
assembly, or by election.
2. This board is invested with the entire control and regulatit n of the repair of streets and alleys, and all other works
which may be intrusted to their charge by the legislative as-

BARNES

v. DISTRICT OF COLUm1BIA.

[Sup. t

sembly or Congress. They shall disburse all the money appropriated by the legislative assembly or by Congress, or collected
from property-holders for the improvement of streets and
alleys.
It is to be noticed here, that the municipal corporation, as
represented by the legislative assembly, may impose upon this
board such other duties as they think proper. The board is to
perform "all other work intrusted to their charge by the legislative assembly or Congress." In this respect, certainly, it is
not an independent body. It is subject to two masters, eithei
of whom may impose upon it any other work it may choose,
and which work it is bound to perform. Its dependence upon
Congress and upon the legislative assembly in this respect rests
upon the same basis. It will not be claimed by any one that
it is not subject to the control of Congress, and dependent upon
that body.
3. The board shall disburse all moneys appropriated by the
United States or the District ot Columbia, or collected from
property-holders, for improvements of streets or alleys. In
doing the two acts here first specified, the board again acts as
the hand and agent of the United States or of the District, as
the case may be.
4. On or before the first Monday of each year, the board is
required to make a report of their transactions during the preceding year to each branch of the :egislative assembly, and
also to the President, to be placed before Congress by him.
This duty is also an indication of their subordination equally
to Congress and to the legislative assembly. The powers given
to this board are not of a character belonging to independent
officers, but rather those which indicate that it is the representative of the municipal corporation.
Notwithstanding these features, and notwithstanding we find
this power given by the act which creates the municipality, and
that this is one of the powers ordinarily belonging to a municipal
government, and although the manner of its bestowal and the
selection of the agents who exercise it are similar to that of the
other appointees and agents of the municipal corporation, it
is still contended that no liability exists on the part of the
corporation to compensate the plaintiff for his injuries.

Oct. 1875.]

BARNES V. DISTRmicT OF COLUMBIA.

It is denied that a municipal corporation (as distinguished
from a corporation organized for private gain) is liable for the
injury to an individual arising from negligence in the construction of a work authorized by it. Some cases hold that
the adoption of a plan of such a work is a judicial act; and, if
injury arises from the mere execution of that plan, no liability
exists. Child v. City of Boston, 4 Allen, 41 ; Thayer v. Boston,
19 Pick. 511. Other cases hold that for its negligent execution
of a plan good in itself, or for mere negligence in the care of
its streets or other works, a municipal corporation cannot be
charged. City of Detroitv. Blackely, 21 Mich. 84, is of the latter
class, where it was held that the city was not liable for an
injury arising from its neglect to keep its sidewalks in repair.
The authorities establishing the contrary doctrine that a
city is responsible for its mere negligence, are so numerous
and so well considered, that the law must be deemed to be settled in accordance with them. Bnglish Authorities. - llayor
v. Henley, 2 C1. & Fin. 331; Mersey Docks v. G-ibbs; Same v.
Penhallow, 1 R. Ld. Cas. wq. s. 93; 1 H. & N. 439; Lan. Canal
Co. v. Parnably,11 Ad. & Ell. 223; Scott v. Mayor, 37 Eng.
Law & Eq. 465. United States Authorities.- Weightman v.
Washington, 1 Bl. 39; Nebraska v. Campbell, 2 id. 590; Bobbins v. Chicago, 4 Wall. 658; Supervisors v. U. S., id. 435;
Mayor v. Sheffield, id. 194. New York. - Davenport v. Buckman, 37 N. Y. 568; Bequa v. Rochester, 45 id. 129; Bochester
IW.L. Co. v. Rochester, 3 id. 463; Conrad v. Ithaca, 16 id.
158; Barton v. Syracuse, 36 id. 54. Illinois. -Browning v.
City of Springfield, 17 Ill. 143; Claybury v. City of Chicago,
25 id. 535; City of Springfield v. Le Claire, 49 id. 476. Alabama. - Smoot v. Mayor of Wecumpka, 24 Ala. x . s. 112. Connecticut. - Jones v. City of New Haven, 34 Conn. 1. North
Carolina.- Meares v. Wilmington, 9 Ired. 73. Maryland.Ctunty Commissioners of Anne Arundel County v. Duckett,
20 Md. 468. Pennsylvania.-Pittsburg City v. G-rier,22 Penn.
54; Brie City v. Schwingle, id. 388. Wisconsin. - Cook v. City
of Milwaukee, 24 Wis. 270; Ward v. Jefferson, id. 342. Virginia.- Sawyer v. Corse, 17 Gratt. 241 ; City of Richmond v.
Long, id. 375. Ohio. - Western College v. Cleveland, 12 Ohio,
N. s. 377; M1cCombs v. Akron, 15 id. 476; Rhodes v. Cleveland,
10 id. 159.

BARNES V. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

And here a distinction is to be noted between the liability of
a municipal corporation, made such by acceptance of a village
or city charter, and the involuntary quasi corporations known
as counties, towns, school-districts, and especially the townships
of New England. The liability of the former is greater than
that of the latter, even when invested with corporate capacity
and the power of taxation. 1 Dillon, sects. 10, 11, 13; 2 id.
sect. 761.
The latter are auxiliaries of the State merely, and, when
corporations, are of the very lowest grade, and invested with
the smallest amount of power. Accordingly, in Conrad v.
Ithaca, 16 N. Y. 158, the village was held to be liable for
the negligence of their trustees; while in Weet v. Brockport
the town was said not to be liable for the same acts by their
commissioners of highways. Id. 163, 4, 9. See Brooke's
Abridgment, "Action on the Case;" Russell v. lITen of
Devon, 2 T. R. 308, and cases there cited; 16 N. Y., supra.
Whether this distinction is based upon sound principle or
not, it is so well settled that it cannot be disturbed. Decisions
or analogies derived from this source are of little value in fixing
the liability of a city or a village. See Dillon, supra.
Again: it is contended that the board of public works of the
District of Columbia is an independent body, acting for itself,
not forming a part of the corporation, and that the corporation
is not responsible for its acts. We have analyzed the power of
this body in a previous part of this opinion, and have set out in
full the language of the thirty-seventh section.
Upon this point, also, we are able to derive assistance from
the adjudged cases.
The case of Bailey v. Mayor, in the Supreme Court of New
York, 3 Hill, 531, and again in the Court of Errors, 2 Den.
431, is a leading authority upon this question. In the year
1834, the legislature of the State of New York passed an act
"to provide for supplying the city of New York with pure and
wholesome water." Sess. Laws 1834, p. 531. The act provided that the governor should appoint five persons, to be known
as water commissioners, whose duty it was made to examine all
matters relative to that subject (sect. 2) ; to employ such engineers as they should deem necessary (sect. 3); to adopt such

Oct. 187b.]

BAnx,-Es

v. DISTIcT OF COLUMIBA.

I

plan as they should deem most advantageous for procuring such
supply of water; to ascertain the amount of money needed for
the purpose; and to make conditional contracts for the purchase
of lands required, subject to the ratification of the common
council of New York (sect. 4). The plan, the estimate of the
expense, the conditional contracts, and all other matters connected therewith, were to be presented by the commissioners to
the common council of New York (sects. 5, 6), who were directed
to submit the plan to the electors of New York for their rejection or approval (sect. 7). If approved, the council were to
direct the commissioners to proceed with the work; and the
council was authorized to raise by loan $2,500,000, which money
was to be applied to the purposes of the act "by or under the
direction of the commissioners" (sect. 11). The commissioners
were authorized to enter upon lands, agree for their purchase
or take measures for their condemnation (sects. 12-14), and to
use the ground or soil under any street or highway within the
State for the purpose of introducing the water (sect. 15). The
commissioners were authorized to draw on the city comptroller
for all sums due for the purchase of lands, and sums due to
contractors, and for their own incidental expenses; and the payments were required to be reported to the council once in every
six months.
Under this statute a plan was prepared and approved by the
citizens of New York, money was raised, and the work was
entered upon. It was proved that the commissioners entered
into a contract with Crandall & Van Zandt for building a dam
across the Croton River, which was about forty miles from the
city of New York, and in another county, in pursuance of the
plan adopted. The plaintiff offered also to prove that it was so
negligently and carelessly constructed, that upon the occurrence
of a freshet in 1841 it was swept away, and the property of the
plaintiff, real and personal, situate on both sides of the river
below the dam, was destroyed to the value of $60,000. The
circuit judge rejected the evidence, and directed the plaintiff to
be nonsfited. The case was carried to the Supreme Court,
where the nonsuit was set aside. The judgment was delivered
by Nelson, 0. J., whose opinion opens in these words: "The
principal ground taken at the circuit against this action, and

BARNES

V. DISTRICT OF

COLUMrBIA.

[Sup. Ct.

the one upon which it was understood the cause there turned,
was that the defendants were not chargeable for negligence or
unskilfulness in the construction of the dam in question, inasmuch as the water commissioners were not appointed by them,
nor subject to their direction or control." The learned judge
repudiates the argument arising from the fact that the commissioners were appointed by the State; that the defendants had
11o control over their actions; that they were bound to employ
them, and submit to the independent exercise of their control.
He held that the commissioners were the agents of the city,
and that the latter was responsible for their negligent conduct.
The case was then carried to the Court of Errors of the State
of New York, 2 Den. 433, where the judgment of the Supreme
Court was affirmed. Chancellor Walworth bases his opinion
of affirmance chiefly upon the fact that the city was the owner
of the land on which the dam was built, and therefore liable
for the negligent conduct of those who built it. Senators Hand,
Bockee, and Barlow base their judgments of affirmance on the
ground that the commissioners were the agents of the city.
Gardner, lieutenant-governor, delivered an able dissenting
opinion.
This case is nearer to the one we are considering than any
other reported in the books. The struggle in the New York
courts was between the dictates of that evident justice and good
sense which required that the city should indemnify a sufferer
for the loss arising from the acts of those doing a work under
its authority and for its benefit, and the technical rule which
exempted it from liability for acts of officers not under its control or appointed by it.
If these courts had had before them the additional facts which
exist in this case, - to wit, that, in the very statute which made
the city of New York a municipal corporation, these persons had
been appointed to do every thing necessary to be done respecting the care and improvement of the streets, being invested
with their exclusive control; that without that body, and two
other equally independent bodies (to wit, the mayor and the
legislative assembly, neither of them being declared in words
to be part of the municipal body), the municipal corporation
had no one part of an organized existence, - we think they

Oct. 1875.]

BAPMEs v. DimTicT OF COLUMBIA.

would have arrived at the same conclusion, but would have
found less difficulty in choosing a ground on which to place
their judgment.
In the case before us, we think that Congress intended to
make the board of public works a portion of the municipal
corporation. The governor, or mayor, as he would ordinarily
be called, represented the executive department; the legislative
assembly, like a common council, had the exclusive authority
to pass all laws or ordinances upon the large class of subjects
committed to its charge, with certain specified restrictions; and
to the board of public works, like an ordinary agent of the corporation, was given the exclusive control of the streets and
alleys. Names are not things. Perhaps there is no restriction
on the power of Congress to create a State within the limits of
the District of Columbia; but it does not make an organization
a State to call its mayor a governor, or its common council
a legislative assembly, or its superintendent of streets a board
of public works, especially when the statute by which they are
created opens with a declaration of its intention to create a
municipal corporation. We take the body thus organized to be
a municipal corporation, and that its parts are composed of the
members referred to; and we hold, therefore, that the proceedings by that body, in the repair and improvement of the street
out of which the accident in question arose, are the proceedings
of the municipal corporation. That in such case the corporation is responsible, we have already cited the authorities to show.
No doubt there are authorities holding views not in all respects in harmony with those we have expressed. Among these
are Tlwyer v. Boston, 19 Pick. 510; Walcott v. Swampscott, 1 Allen, 101; Child v. City of Boston, 4 id. 41. The farst of these
cases holds that a city corporation is liable in tort, provided the
act is done by the authority and order of the city government,
or those branches of the government invested with authority to
act for the corporation; but that it must appear that the act
was done by the express authority of the city, or bona fide in
pursuance of a general authority on the subject. To this we
assent. Walcott v. Swampscott was an action against a town.
The surveyor of highways employed one O'Grady to dive a
horse and cart with a load of gravel for the repair of a highway;

BARNES V. DISTRICT Op COLUIBIA.

[Sup. Ot.

and, while thus engaged, he came in collision with the plaintiff.
The town was held not to be liable, on the theory that the surveyor was not an agent or servant of the town, but an independent officer appointed to perform a public duty in which
the town had no interest. In Child v. City of Boston it was
held that the city was not responsible for any deficiency in
the plan of drainage adopted by the city, although the plaintiff
was injured thereby; that the duty in this respect was of
a quasi judicial nature, involving discretion, and depending
upon public considerations; that in this they acted, not as
agents of the city, but as public officers. In this respect the
case is in hostility to Roch. White Lead Co. v. Rochester, 3 N. Y.
463, where the city was held liable because it constructed a
sewer which was not of sufficient capacity to carry off the water
draining into it. The work was well done; but the adoption
and carrying out of the plan was held to be an act of negligence.
The Boston case, however, holds, that if a sewer, originally well
constructed, becomes defective by reason of low lands being
filled up so that the outflow is obstructed, it is the duty of
the city so to extend the sewer that its efficiency shall be restored, and that for a failure to do so it becomes liable to those
whose property is injured by the overflow of the sewer. In
its practical results, this is one of the strongest cases to be found
in favor of municipal liability.
We do not perceive that the circumstance that the fee of the
streets is in the United States, and not in the municipal corporation, is material to the case. In most of the cities of this
country, the fee of the land belongs to the adjacent owner; and,
upon the discontinuance of the street, the possession would revert to him. The streets and avenues in Washington have
been laid out and opened by competent authority. The power
and the duty to repair them are undoubted, and would not be
different were the streets the absolute property of the corporation. The only questions can be as to the particular person or
body by which the power shall be exercised, and how far the
liability of the city extends.
The judgment of the General Term is reversed, and the case
is remanded to the Supreme Court of the -Districtof Columbia, with directions to affirm the judgment of the Special
Term upon the verdict.

