Oct. 1875.]

GmNi

ET

AL. v. IL. & Miss. TEL. Co.

608

The fact that Allen will, under the judgment recovered -by
defendants in error, taken in connection with the amount he
has had to pay to others to complete the wrought-iron work, be
a loser to the amount of several thousand dollars, does not
prove the instructions of the court to be wrong. If there was
any error, it was committed by the jury, and not by the court.
It is only another one of those cases, so common from that
circuit, in which, with the whole charge of the court and much
of the testimony in the bill of exceptions, this court is expected
to retry the case as if it were both court and jury. Our repeated refusal to do this will be adhered to, however counsel
may continue to press on our attention the mistakes of juries.
Judgment affirmed.
They are beyond our jurisdiction.

Girw"

ET AL. v. ILL Nois AND Mississippi TLEG AP3Er

Co p iq.
CoYK=NALL, GARNisss,

v. IDF_.

1. Where a trial by the court below was not had under the act of March 3, 1865
(13 Stat. 501), the rulings excepted to in the progress of such trial cannot
be reviewed here.
2. Where it is clearly implied by the terms of a mortgage executed bya railroad
company that the latter was to hold possession and receive the earnings of
the road until the mortgagees should take it or the proper judicial authority
intervene, such possession gives the right to the whole fund derived therefrom, and renders it, therefore, liable to the creditors of the company as if
no mortgage existed.
3. A decree, silent as to the profits and *possession of the mortgaged premises
from its date until the sale thereby ordered, does not affect the right to
such profits and possession during that period.

THESE cases come here from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa, -the former by appeal, and
the latter by writ of error.
In 1857, the Des Moines Valley Railroad Company, by its
then corporate name, in order to secure the payment of its
bonds, executed to certain trustees a mortgage of its road,
property, and franchises, "together with the tolls, rents, and
profits to be had, gained, or levied therefrom."

604

GILMAN ET AL. v. ILL. & Miss. TEL. Co.

[Sup. Ct

One of the provisions of this mortgage was as follows: "It is hereby further provided, that until failure to pay the
interest on said bonds, or to pay the principal at maturity, or to
apply, appropriate, set apart, and deposit the several sums of money
to be applied, appropriated, set apart, and deposited, as hereinafter
provided, the said party of the first part shall have the sole right to
the possession, use, management, and control of the said mortgaged
property and premises, and of the receipts and revenues thereof,
as if this instrument had not been made; but if the said party of
the first part shall fail to pay or cause to be paid the principal of
the said bonds, or any of them, at the maturity thereof, or shall fail
to pay or cause to be paid the interest on the said bonds, or any of
them, or any part thereof, on any day whereon the same is made
payable by the terms of the said bond, and the same shall remain
unpaid for the space of six months after having been demanded,
whereby at the option of the holders of one-third in amount of all
the outstanding unconverted and unredeemed bonds the principal
sum secured thereby shall become immediately payable, or shall
fail to apply, appropriate, set apart, and deposit the several moneys
required to be applied, appropriated, set apart, and deposited, as
hereinafter provided, then and in that case it shall be lawful for the
said parties of the second part, their survivor or successor or successors, and it shall be their duty, to enter upon and take possession
of all and singular the property, premises, and franchises hereby
granted and conveyed, or so expressed or intended to be, and by
themselves, or their agent or agents, substitute or substitutes, duly
constituted, have, use, operate, and employ the same, making from
time to time all needful repairs, alterations, or additions, collect
and receive all the tolls, rents, or profits to be had or gained therefrom, and apply all the moneys arising therefrom to the payment
of the interest due and to grow due on all the said bonds which
may be outstanding, unconverted, and unredeemed, and to the
payment of the principal of all and each and every of such bonds
when such principal shall become due and payable."
In 1868 the company executed a second mortgage to certain
other trustees, in which was conveyed the road with its appurtenances, and "also all rents, issues, income, tolls, profits, currency, moneys, rights, benefits, and advantages derived or to
be derived, had or received therefrom by said company in any
way whatever."

Oct. 1875.]

GILMAN ET AL. v. ILL. & Miss. TEL.

Co.

605

"To have and to hold the above granted and bargained premises,
with the appurtenances thereof, unto the said trustees, and to the
survivors and survivor of them, and to their and his successors and
successor, and their and his assigns, in trust, and upon the trust,
uses, and purposes hereinafter expressed, of and concerning the
same, for the use and benefit of the person or persons, firm or firms,
bodies politic or corporate, who shall hereafter at any time become
the purchasers or holders, owners or bearers, of any or either of said
bonds, subject to the terms, provisions, and stipulations in said
bonds contained, and also subject to the possession and management
of said railroad and property by said company, and its successors
and assigns, so long as no default shall be made in the payment of
either interest or principal of said bonds, or in any or either of
them, or in payment of the amount of money, as is herein provided
for the sinking fund, and so long as the said company shall well
and truly observe, keep, and perform all and singular the covenants,
agreements, conditions, and stipulations in said bond and in this
indenture contained and set forth, and which -are to be observed,
kept, and performed by and on the part of said company.
"And it is agreed, in case of the default of the payment of the
semi-annual interest as above provided, that said trustees and the
survivor or successors of them are hereby expressly authorized and
empowered, upon the request in writing of a majority in interest
of the owners or holders of said bonds, to enter into and upon, and
to take actual possession of, all the property, real and personal,
rights, franchises, and privileges, of the premises hereby conveyed,
and each and every part thereof, and by themselves, or by their
attorneys or agents, have, hold, use, and enjoy the same, and from
time to time make all repairs and replacements, and all useful
alterations, additions, and improvements thereto, as fully as the
parties of the first part might have done before such entry, and to
collect and receive all tolls, freight, incomes, rents, issues, and
profits of the same, and of every part thereof."
The trustees never took possession; but, default having been
made in the payment of interest on both mortgages, the trustees
in the second mortgage, in July, 1872, commenced suit to foreclose in one of the State courts, making the railway company
the trustees in the first mortgage, and various judgment and
lien creditors of the company parties defendant, and, among
others, the Illinois and Mississippi Telegraph Company. No

606

GILMAN ET AL. V. ILL.

& Miss. TEL Co.

[Sup. Ct.

receiver was applied for or appointed pending the foreclosure
proceedings, except as hereinafter stated.
On May 31, 1873, a decree of foreclosure was entered by the
State court, fixing the priorities of the several parties, and
holding that the telegraph company's judgment, hereinafter
mentioned, was a lien subject to the mortgage in suit and to
other specified liens.
The decree ordered a sale of the mortgaged property by the
sheriff on special execution, but, as originally entered, made no
provision as to the possession or earnings of the road (which
was still in the possession of the railroad company, and operated
by it) between the date of the decree and the sale which the
decree ordered.
On the thirteenth day of June, 1873, the telegraph company
issued execution on a judgment for $23,734.10, which it had on
the 24th of May, 1872, obtained against the railroad company
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Iowa, and garnished, under the statute of the State, moneys in
the hands of the agents of the railroad company at its various
stations, received by them from the income and earnings of the
road.
The trustees in the first and second mortgages filed, June 20,
1873, the present bill in equity against the telegraph company
to enjoin the said proceedings upon the execution under its
judgment. The bill was, the twenty-seventh day of June, 1873,
amended so as to make the Des Moines Valley Railroad Company a defendant; and a temporary injunction, as prayed for,
was allowed.
On Sept. 9, 1873, after a sale had been advertised by the
sheriff, application was informally made to the State court, by
the trustees under the first mortgage, for a modification of the
decree of May 31, 1873; and the same was modified by appointing a "speciai receiver of all the income and earnings of the
road" between the date of the decree or sheriff's first publication of notice of sale and the sale to be made by him. This
was done, saving the rights of the telegraph company.
The special receiver took possession Sept. 15, 1873. The
sale by the sheriff under which the purchasers were let into
possession took place Oct. 17, 1873, and left a large amount of
the mortgage bonds unpaid.

Oct. 1875.]

GIMAN ET AL. V. ILL. &

Mss. TEL. Co.

607

Between the date of the decree 6f May 31, 1873, and Sept.
15, 1873, when the special receiver took possession, the road
was operated by the railroad company; and, during this period,
the net earnings were $27,147.96.
Coykendall, who was garnished, had received $27,000; and
judgment in the suit at law was rendered against him for that
amount.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill of the complainants.
31r. George C. Wright for the appellants and the plaintiff in
error.
The railroad company had legal capacity to mortgage, and
did mortgage, its future earnings; and they became as much
part of the bondholders' security as did the road-bed, rollingstock, or any other part of the mortgaged property. Act of
March 31, 1858; Rev. Stat. of Iowa, 1860, p. 222; Pennock
v. Coe, 23 How. 117; Jessup et al. v. Bridge et al., 11 Iowa,
573; -Dunhamv. Isett, 15 id. 284; 2 Redf. on Railws. 455, 485;
Calveston Railroadv. Cowdry, 11 Wall. 453.
It may be urged by counsel for defendant, that the lien of
the mortgages became merged in and extinguished by the
decree. The foreclosure proceeding is not for the purpose of
obtaining a better or higher order of lien, but simply for the
purpose of enforcing an already existing and sufficient one.
The lien of a mortgage is not extinguished by decree of forcclosure. Biley's Adm'r v. Me Cord's Adm'r, 21 Mo. 287; State
of Iowa v. Lake, 17 Iowa, 215.
If it be true generally, that a mortgage lien is merged in a
foreclosure decree, it will, in exceptional cases, be kept alive for
reasons similar to those that operate to prevent merger in other
similar cases. It is familiar law, that although ordinarily,
when the mortgage interest and the equity of redemption unite
in the same person, the former will become merged in the
latter, yet, when the interest of the common owner requires
that they shall remain distinct and separate, such will be presumed to have been his intention, and the lien of the mortgage
will be kept ahve for the purpose and to the extent of upholding such interest.
The same rule, for the same reason, should be held to apply
in favor of the bondholders in the case at bar to the extent of

608

GILMAN ET AL. V. ILL.

& Miss.

TEL. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

keeping alive the mortgage lien as to the item of earnings to
whatever extent their interest requires.
If by foreclosure the mortgage lien becomes merged, it can
only be so to the extent that the mortgaged property is, by the
proceedings and the terms of the decree, sought to be subjected
to the payment of the mortgage indebtedness.
The bondholders may enjoin a judgment creditor of the road, who, by
garnishment, seeks to subject its income and tolls to the payment of his debt. -Dunhamv. Isett, 15 Iowa, 284; Long v.
llatheison, 2 Giff. 71; Furness v. ChaterhamRailway, 29 Beav.
358; State v. Iorth Central P.R. Co., 18 Md. 193.
J3r. J. Scott Bichman and Mr.
D. Caton, contra.
The general laws of Iowa provide, that, in the absence of
stipulations to the contrary, the mortgagor of real property
retains the legal title thereto, and the right to the possession
thereof. His estate is the subject of a lien, of a sale under
execution, or of his conveyance. Curtis v. Xllillard et al., 14
Iowa, 128.
This estate is not covered by any general mortgage. It can
only be parted with by special contract, - by "stipulations to
the contrary." If they provide, that, under certain circumstances, this right shall be surrendered in a particular form or
way, that form must be followed. Until the claim is made
therefor, the possession and the rents and profits of the road
belong rightfully and legally to the mortgagor, subject to execution, lien, or sale. Curtis v. iillard et al., supra.
The decree is now the evidence of the lien of the bondholders upon the railroad. If their lien is not thereby fixed
upon the earnings of the road between the date of the decree
and the time when the purchaser thereunder would be entitled
to the possession of the road, then there is no such lien ; and
the court below could not give the complainants the relief
which the State court withheld, in adjudicating their rights
under their mortgage. The debt is the principal thing. The
mortgage is a security merely. Whatever satisfies the debt
merges the security. If the debt is barred by the statute of
limitations, the mortgage is barred also. iNewman v. De Lorimer, 19 Iowa, 214. The appellants, having a lien by virtue of
their mortgage, instituted a proceeding to have it enforced.

Oct. 1875.]

GILMAN E

AL. v. ILL.

& Miss. TEL. Co. ,

609

Having failed to take or demand possession of the railroad, or
to piay for the appointment of a receiver, they obtained such
relief as they were entitled to upon the case made by the
pleadings and proofs. Their mortgage having been merged,
it cannot defeat the rights of the telegraph company, which
attached by the levy of its execution. Goodrich et al. v. Dun
bar, 17 Barb. 644; Freem. on Judg., sect. 125; Green v. Sarmzento, 1 Pet. C. C. 74; Butler v. Miller, 1 Den. 407; Carson v.
2fontino, 2 Johns. 308; United States v. Price, 9 How. 83-94;
Willings &' Francis v. Consequa, 1 Pet. C. C. 893; Ward v.
Johnson, 31 Mass. 140; Robertson v. Smith, 18 Johns. 459;
.ldred v. Bank, 17 Wall. 545;-,Masonv. -ldred, 6 id. 231;
Jones v. Johnson, 8 W. & S. 276; The People v. Beebe, 1 Barb.
888; Ayres v. Cayce, 10 Tex. 99.
It is well settled in Iowa, that a party cannot have greater
relief than he asks for in his petition, or than the averments of
his petition entitle him to. Code, sect. 2885; Cameronv. Boyle,
2 Gr. 164; Haven v. Birch, 5 Iowa, 503; Stadler v. Parmelee,
10 id. 23. If, as in this case, the right to the earnings depends
upon a contract, or a stipulation which provides the mode in
which they shall be received and applied, that mode must be
pursued, or there must be some attempt to pursue it by a demand made of whatever may be necessary to secure them. If
such demand is refused, then the law points out the remedy;
but there must be a foundation laid for the appointment of a
receiver by averment and proof of the necessary facts. Insurance Co. v. Stebbins, 8 Page, 565; Aston v. Turner, 11 id. 436;
Mitchell v. Butler, 51 N. Y. 447; Classen v. Cooley, 5 Sandf.
447; Strong v. .Dallner & Potter, 2 id. 444. The cases of Galveston Railroad v. Cowdry, 11 Wall. 459-482, Noyes v. Rich,
52 Me. 115, and City of Bath v. Miller, 51 id. 341, are precisely
in point.
As to the judgment against the garnishee, it is submitted
that only such rulings of the court below as are excepted to
at the time, and duly presented by bills of exceptions, can be
reviewed here. -Dickinson v. The Planters' Bank, 16 Wall.
250.
This would be the law, if this case bad been tried under the
act of March 3, 1865; but it was not. A case at law, in which
VOL. I.

89

610

GILMAN ET AL. V. ILL.

& Miss. TEL. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

there were questions both of law and fact to decide, was submitted to the court. The judgment below must, therefore, be
presumed to be right; and it will be affirmed. Campbell et al.
v. Clement Boyean, 21 How. 223; Gould et al. v. Frontin, 18 id.
135; Saydam v. Williams et al., 20 id. 432; Kelsey et al. v.
Forsyth, 21 id. 85; Kearny v. Case, 12 Wall. 273, 284; Phi7
lips v. Preston, 5 How. 290.
Mr. William I. _Evarts in reply.
In advance of the direct consideration of the equities of the
plaintiffs, under their mortgage and subsequent to their foreclosure decree, as against this judgment creditor, under his
execution it is well to define and understand these equities as
between the plaintiffs and the railroad company (the mortgagor
to the plaintiffs and the judgment debtor).
There seems but little controversy on this preliminary relation. The growing income and earnings were, by words most
comprehensive and explicit, made a part of the subject mortgaged; and the right of the mortgagee, upon the mere condition
of default in payment of interest, to subject the income and
earnings to the satisfaction of the mortgage debt, was as clear
as such right in respect to the body of the real and personal
estate of the company. This was a clear and absolute right by
the contract of the mortgage; and the only function of a court
of equity, if the mortgagor resisted the execution of this right
by the mortgagee taking possession, was to execute the right by
its process, accomplishing the specific performance of the contract in this behalf. This clear right under such a railroad
mortgage must not be confounded with an equity raised by a
chancery court out of special circumstances, and grafted upon
a mere mortgage of the fee. Thus, in case of a mortgage of
productive property conveying the fee, upon the concurring
circumstances of insolvency of the mortgage debtor, and the
insufficiency of the fee to satisfy the principal debt and the accumulating interest and costs, the Court of Chancery finds a
ground for a special equity to lay hold of the rents in aid of the
failing security of the fee. This equity springs into existence
from these extraneous facts, and dates from the judgment of the
court thereon. Necessarily, therefore, all competing liens antedating this judgment of the court, legal or equitable, must be

Oct. 1875.]

GirmAN

ET AL.

v. ILL. & Miss. TEL. Co.

611

respected and maintained in their priority; but when the rigkt
of the mortgagee springs from his contract, and dates from the
default of the mortgagor for its actionable completeness, no
competing lien which does not antedate the mortgagor's default
in its asserted priority will be respected and upheld by a court
of equity. If the competing lien be asserted by process of a
common-law court, the Court of Chancery appealed to for relief
rescues the property from its sequestration, because the perfect
equitable lien of the contract of the mortgage has rested on
the property from the date of default in the debtor, and so
the legal process has been anticipated by the equitable
lien.
This proposition cannot be disputed. Gail. & Ch. Un. _.1.
CJo. v. 3lenzies, 26 IM. 121.
It cannot be doubted, that if the debtor recognized this
equitable lien, and administered the income and earnings of the
road in obedience to it, paying thereout the running expenses,
and applying the surplus to the mortgage debt, the mortgagee
has no occasion to disturb the possession of the mortgagor by
the interposition of a receivership. No doubt the mortgagee
may, by want of vigilance, suffer the income and earnings to
slip away irrecoverably from his equitable lien, and, by intervening through the powers of a court of equity, can only secure
the proper application of the future income or earnings.
Whether this will happen or not will depend wholly on the
state of things when he intervenes. If he is in season to intercept the income and earnings before they have been collected or
expended, as between himself and the debtor, he is in time. If
the interference comes from a creditor of the mortgagor, the
like rule applies. If the mortgagee intervenes in time to arrest,
by equitable process, the diversion of the income and earnings
from under his equitable lien, in point of fact his intervention
is seasonable in point of law.
The stress of the argument against the plaintiffs' equity, and
in support of the prevalence of the execution at law over it,
rests upon the singular suggestion, that the judgment of foreclosure has limited and superseded the plaintiffs' equitable lien,
and given license to the operation of the judgment creditor's
execution, which, but for this consequence of the actual judg-

612

GILMAN ET AL. V. ILL. & Miss. TEL. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

ment of foreclosure, it would not have had. The reasoning
upon which this proposition rests is wholly technical and artificial. It confessedly is without equity, and attempts an advantage from the course of the foreclosure suit which was
uncontemplated and unnecessary, and is as surprising as it is
unjust.
In the case at bar, the lien of the mortgage and its continuance up to the sale of the mortgaged premises is the very life
and support of the decree up to its final execution by such sale.
As to this judgment creditor, the lien of its judgment upon the
mortgaged premises, and every part thereof, had been adjudicated in this decree, its subordination to the plaintiffs' lien
established, and the possibility of interference with, or disparagement of, the plaintiffs' lien by or through that judgment,
precluded.
But, subsequent to the decree in foreclosure, process on this
judgment against income of the mortgaged premises, to accrue
between the decree and its execution, issues, on the ground that
the income, during this interval, is not covered by the decree, and
the subordination of the judgment to the mortgage in this behalf
has not been adjudicated; in other words, that the execution
raises a new lien upon a new subect.
It is submitted that the decree in foreclosure is no bar to a
suit to restrain an inequitable interference with the income of
the road, first threatened after the decree, and in respect of
income arising thereafter.
The injunction suit is ancillary
to the objects of the principal suit, and to suppress an inequitable subtraction of a portion of the mortgaged property from
the equitable lien of the mortgagee.
If any circumstance were wanting to exhibit the falsity of
reasoning and the injustice in result by supporting this garnishee process, it is supplied by the evidence in the principal
cause, that the fund sought to be applied in satisfaction of the
judgment comes from earnings, for the most part, accruing after
this injunction bill was filed by the plaintiffs. In effect, an
equitable execution is given by the Circuit Court to the judgment creditor to sequestrate income confessedly covered by the
prior express lien of the plaintiffs' mortgage, after suit begun
to enforce the lieu of the latter.

Oct. 1875.]
MR.
court.

GmxAN ET AL. v. ILL.

JUSTICE

SWAYxE

& MIss. TEL. Co.

delivered the opinion of

618
the

These cases have been argued together, and will be decided
together. The case at law will be first considered.
On the 24th of May, 1872, the telegraph company recovered
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Iowa a judgment for the sum of $23,784.04 and costs. On the
13th of June following, execution was issued. On the 17th of
that month, the marshal to whom the process was directed
served it by attaching as garnishees several persons, one of
whom was Coykendall, the plaintiff in error. On the 27th
of October, 1873, he filed his answer; and on the 27th of October, 1874, he filed a further answer.
By the first answer he admitted, that, since he was garnished,
he had received for and paid over to the railroad company more
than $37,000. In his second answer he set forth that he was
the agent of the railroad company at Des Moines; and that his
duties were to sell tickets and receive and ship freight, and to
receive the charges upon such freight. For the moneys received
both for tickets and freight a large proportion belonged to other
companies, but how much he did not know. All the moneys
he received were regularly transmitted to the assistant-treasurer
of the Des Moines company.
The proper apportionment of the moneys was made by the
officers of that company at Keokuk, and the Des Moines company was accountable to the other companies for what belonged
to them. He was not in the employment of any other company
or person during the time mentioned, and was not responsible to
any other company or person for the moneys which he received,
as before stated.
The gross amount received by him, between the time he was
garnished and the appointment of the receiver who took poisession of the road, was $27,000.
The case was submitted to the court, and argued by the
counsel upon both sides. The next day it was stated to the
court by the counsel for the defendant that proof could be
adduced of the proportion of the moneys in question which
belonged to other companies, and time was asked to procure it.
The application was overruled, and the court gave judgment

614

GILMAN ET AL. V. ILL. &

'Miss. TEL. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

for $27,000 and costs. The garnishee thereupon excepted to
the ruling of the court refusing further time.
The case having been submitted to the court and argued by
the counsel of both parties, the garnishee not asking for a jury,
the record in this respect shows no error. It is to be taken that
both parties waived a trial by jury, and they are bound accordingly. Phillips v. Preston, 5 How. 278; Campbell v. B]oyreau,
21 id. 224; Kelsey -v. -Forsythe, id. 86. The proceeding not
having been according to the act of March 8, 1865, this court
has no power to examine any ruling of the court below excepted to during the progress of the trial. Campbell v. Boyreau, supra; Guild et al. v. Pontin, 18 id. 185; Kearney v.
Case, 12 Wall. 275; Dickinson v. The Planters' Bankc, 16 id.
250. The only point attempted to be presented by the bill of
exceptions was the refusal of the court to give time for the
production of further evidence. If this subject was before us
in such a shape that we could consider it, it would be a conclusive answer that the matter was one resting in the discretion
of the court. Its determination, therefore, could not be reviewed
by this tribunal.
This brings us to the examination of the case in equity.
The bill was filed to prevent, by injunction, the collection of
the moneys upon which the judgment in favor of the telegraph
companies was founded. There is no controversy between the
parties as to the facts.
On the 16th of February, 1857, the railroad company, by its
then corporate name, executed a mortgage; and on the 1st of
October, 1868, by its corporate name as altered, executed
another. Both were given to secure the payment of its bonds
as set forth. A part of the premises described and pledged by
both mortgages, besides the road, was its income.
In case of default in the payment of interest or principal, the
mortgagees were authorized to take possession, and collect and
receive the income and earnings of the road, and apply them to
the debts secured, and, upon the request of one-third of the
bondholders, to sell the mortgaged premises.
The conditions of both mortgages having been broken, the
mortgagees in the second mortgage filed their bill of foreclosure
in the Circuit Court of Polk County, in the State of Iowa.

Oct. 1875.]

GILmAN ET AL. V. ILL. & MISS. TEL.

Co.

615

The mortgagees iii the second mortgage - various judgment and
lien creditors, among the former the telegraph company - wero
made defendants. On the 31st of May, 1873, a decree of foreclosure and sale was rendered. It fixed the priorities of the
several parties, and held that the judgment of the telegraph
company was a lien subject to the mortgage in suit and other
specified liens. It ordered a sale of the mortgaged property.
The i oad was still in possession of the company. The decree
made no provision for disturbing their possession, and none
-whatever as to the income of the road between the time of the
decree and the time of the sale. The telegraph company proceeded, as we have stated, in disposing of the case at law. On
the 20th of June, 1873, the appellants, who are the trustees in
the two mortgages, filed this bill. On the 9th of September,
1873, after the sheriff had advertised the mortgaged premises
for sale, the decree in the State court was amended by providing
for the appointment of "a special receiver of all the income
and earnings of the road" between the date of the decree and
the time fixed by the sheriff for the sale to be made by him.
This was done with a saving of the rights of the telegraph
company. The special receiver took possession on the 15th
of September, 1873. The sale by the sheriff was made on
the 17th of October, 1873. The road was operated by the
company up to the time when the receiver took possession.
During this period, the fund was received for which judgment was given against Coykendall.
The proceedings in the case at law having been held valid,
the telegraph company is entitled to the fund in controversy,
unless the appellants have shown a better right to it. The
question arises upon the mortgages. The civil law is the springhead of the English jurisprudence upon the subject of these
securities. Originally, according to that jurisprudence, mortgages of the class to which those here in question belong vested
the fee, subject to be divested by the discharge of the debt at
the day limited for its payment. If default was then made, the
premises were finally lost to the debtor. In the progress of
time more liberal views prevailed, and the debt came to be considered as the principal thing, and the mortgage only as an

616

GILMAN ET AL. V. ILL.

& Miss. TEL. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

incident and security. In the present state of the law, where
there is no prohibition by statute, it is competent for the mortgagee to pursue three remedies at the same time. He may sue
on the note or obligation, he may bring an action of ejeetment,
and he may file a bill for foreclosure and sale. 1 Hill. on Mort.
9, 62; id. 104, 111; Andrews v. Sutton, 2 Bland, 665.
The remedy last mentioned was resorted to in the State
court by the mortgagees in the second mortgage, those in the
first having been made parties, and that nortgage thus brought
before the court. That court, therefore, had full jurisdiction as
to the rights of all the parties touching both instruments. It
would have been competent for the court in linzine, upon a
proper showing, to appoint a receiver, and clothe him with the
duty of taking charge of the road and receiving its earnings,
with such limit of time as it might see fit to prescribe. It
might have done the same thing subsequently, during the progress of the suit. When the final decree was made, a receiver
might have been appointed, and required to receive all the
income and earnings until the sale was made and confirmed,
and possession delivered over to the vendee.
Nothing of this kind was done. There was simply a decree
of sale. The decree was wholly silent as to the possession and
earnings. in the mean time. It follows that neither, during that
period, was in any wise affected by the action of the court.
They were as if the decree were not.
As regards the point under consideration, the decree may,
therefore, be laid out of view.
The stipulation renders it unnecessary to consider the amendment to the decree.
Without that stipulation, the result would have been the
same. It could not affect rights which had attached before it
was made.
Nothing was done in the exercise of the right which the
mortgages gave to the mortgagees to intervene and take possession. We may, therefore, lay out of view also both these
topics.
This leaves nothing to be examined but the effect of the
mortgages, irrespective of any other consideration.
A mortgagor of real estate is not liable for rent while in

Oct. 1875.]

GLMAN IET AL. V. ILL.

& Miss. TEL. Co.

617

possession. 2 Kent's Com. 172. He contracts to pay interest,
and not rent. In Chinnery v. Black, 8 Doug. 891, the mortgagor of a ship sued for freight earned after the mortgage was
given, but unpaid. Lord Mansfield said, "Until the mortgagee takes possession, the mortgagor is owner to all the world,
and is entitled to all the profit made." It is clearly implied in
these mortgages that the railroad company should hold possession and receive the earnings until the mortgagees should take
possession, or the proper judicial authority should interpose.
Possession draws after it the right to receive and apply the
income. Without this the road could not be operated, and no
profit could be made. Mere possession would have been useless
to all concerned. The right to apply enough of the income to
operate the road will not be questioned. The amount to be so
applied was within the discretion of the company. The same
discretion extended to the surplus. It was for the company to
decide what should be done with it. In this condition of
things, the whole fund belonged to the company, and was subject to its control. It was, therefore, liable to the creditors of
the company as if the mortgages did not exist. They in no
wise affected it. If the mortgagees were not satisfied, they
had the remedy in their own hands, and could at any moment
invoke the aid of the law, or interpose themselves without it.
They did neither.
In Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, substan
tially the same question arose as that we are considering. The
mortgage there contained provisions touching the income of the
road similar to those in the mortgages before us.
This court held, that, at least until after a regular demand
was made, those who received the earnings were not bound
to account for them. See also The City of Bath v. Miller, 51
Me. 341; Noyes, Receiver, v. Rich, 52 id. 115.
Upon both reason and authority, we think the appellants have
no right to the fund in controversy.
-Decreeaffirmed. Judgmnent affirmed.

