Oct. 1875.]

MILWAUKEE,

urC. R.R. Co. v. Aims

AL.

495

as it was the duty of the defendant to use. ' Gross' is a word of
description, and not of definition; and it would have been only introducing a source of confusion to use the expression ' gross negligence' instead of the equivalent, - a want of due care and skill
in navigating the vessel, which was again and again used by the
Lord Chief Justice in his summing up."
"Gross negligence" is a relative term. It is doubtless to be
understood as meaning a greater want of care than is implied
by the term "ordinary negligence;" but, after all, it means the
absence of the care that was necessary under the circumstances.
In this sense the collision in controversy was the result of gross
negligence, because the employds of the company did not use
the care that was required to avoid the accident. But the absence of this care, whether called gross or ordinary negligence,
did not authorize the jury to visit the company with damages
beyond the limit of compensation for the injury actually inflicted. To do this, there must have been some wilful misconduct, or that entire want of care which would raise the
presumption of a conscious indifference to consequences. Nothing of this kind can be imputed to the persons in charge of the
train; and the court, therefore, misdirected the jury.
.Forthis reason the judgment is reversed, and a new trial
ordered.
Western Union Telegraph Company v. Eyser, in error to the SuNOTE. -In
preme Court of the Territory of Colorado, it appears from the evidence
embodied in the bill of exceptions that the accident which caused the injury to
the defendant in error occurred at the corner of F and Blake Streets, in Denver.
Col., at which point the agents of the plaintiff in error were engaged in erecting
the wire which they had stretched across Blake Street, some two feet above the
ground; that Eyser rode down that street on horseback, and, when near the

wire, one of the bystanders called to him, warning him, but that the horse, having
become entangled in the wire, fell to the ground, thereby causing the injuries

complained of.
It does not appear that the plaintiff in error adopted any special means of
warning; but the person in charge of the work testifies that he instructed the
workmen "to keep people off the wire."
Upon the question of exemplary damages, the court instructed the jury as
follows:"If. the defendant's agents and servants, acting within the scope of their
authority from defendant, were engaged in constructing a telegraph line in the
city of Denver, and in such construction stretched a wire across one of the publie and frequented streets of said city during the hours of the day when sucl-

MAYMR ET AL.

v.

HELLMAIT.

[Sup. Ct.

streets are wont to be frequented, and suffered such wire to remain stretched
across said street, and elevated such distance above the ground as to obstruct or
entangle the feet of a horse passing upon said street for the space of one half
minute to a longer period; and if, unless such wire was of such size and character
as to be easily seen by persons approaching at a moderate speed, defendant's
agents omitted to station flag-sentinels or other sufficient means of warning to
warn or notify passers-by of the place where such wire was stretched; or if de.
fendant's agents did station such sentinels, and they failed to give warning to
plaintiff, - then the defendant was guilty of negligence; and if from such negligence the injury complained of occurred, without culpable negligence on the palrt
of plaintiff contributing thereto, then the jury ought to find for the plaintiff, and,
in fixing the plaintiff's damages, should compensate the plaintiff not alone for
his actual loss in the loss of time during his confinement or disability, if any,
resulting from the alleged accident, but may award exemplary damages proportioned to the nature and extent or character of the injury and all circumstances
of aggravation or extenuation attending the alleged negligence of defendant:
and the extent of such damages is to be measured by the sound discretion of the
jury in view of all the circumstances; but such damages are not to exceed the
damages laid in the declaration,- ten thousand dollars ($10,000)."
1r. J. Hubley Ashton for the plaintiff in error. Mr. J. 17. Denver, contra.
MR.JUSTIcE DAVIs, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked that the
decision rendered-in Ofilwaukee &-St. Pard Railway Company v. Arms et al., siupra,
controlled this case. In no view of the evidence was the court below justified
in instructing the jury that exemplary damages could be recovered. The omission to station flag-sentinels, or to give some other proper warning, while the
men were engaged in putting up the wire, was an act of negligence, entitling the
plaintiff to compensatory damages. But there was nothing to authorize the
jury to consider this omission as wilful: on the contrary, the evidence rebuts
every presumption that there was any intentional wrong.
Judgment reversed.

MAYER ET AL. v. HELLMAN.
An assignment by an insolvent debtor of his property to trustees for the equal
and common benefit of all his creditors is not fraudulent, and, when executed
six months before proceedings in bankruptcy are taken against the debtor, is
not assailable by the assignee in bankruptcy subsequently appointed.: and
the assignee is not entitled to the possession of the property from the trustees.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of Ohio.
The plaintiff in the court below is assignee in bankruptcy of
Bogen and others, appointed in proceedings instituted against
them in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio; the defendants are assignees of the same

