NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. ot

Congress intended that the power given by these acts should
be so exercised.
It was an arbitrary stretch of 'authority, needful to no good
end that can be imagined. Whether Congress could have conferred the power to do such an act is a question we are not
called upon to consider. It is an unbending rule of law, thal
the exercise of military power, where the rights of the citizen
are concerned, shall never be pushed beyond what the exigency
requires. i1fitchell v. JHarmony, 13 How. 115; Warden v. Bailey, 4 Taunt. 67; Pabrigas v., i'oysten, 1 Cow-p. 161; s. C.,
1 Smith's L. C., pt. 2, p. 934. Viewing the subject before us
from the stand-point indicated, we hold that the order was void.
This is the only Federal question presented for our consideration. As the Supreme Court of the State decided it correctly,
our jurisdiction terminates at this point: we can look no farther
Judgment affirmed.
into the case.

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, v. EATON ET AL.
1. A devise of the income from property, to cease on the insolvency or bankruptcy
of the devisee, is good; and a limitation over to his wife and children, upon
the happening of such contingency, is valid, and the entire interest passes
to them: but if the devise be to Mim and his wife or children, or if he has
in any way a vested interest thereunder, that interest, whatever it may be,
may be separated from that of his wife or children, and paid over to his
assignee in bankruptcy.
2. Where, upon certain trusts therein limited and declared, a devise of real and
personal property to trustees directed them to pay the income arising therefrom to A., and provided, that if he should alienate or dispose of it, or
should become bankrupt or insolvent, the trust expressed respecting it
should thereupon cease and determine, and authorized them, in the event
of such bankruptcy or alienation, to apply it to the support of the wife,
child, or children, of A., and, if there were none, to loan or reinvest it in
augmentation of the principal sum or capital of the estate until his decease,
or until he should have a wife or children capable of receiving the trust forfeited by him; and also provided that the trustees might at any time, in
their discretion, transfer to him any portion not exceeding one-half of the
trust-fund ; and in case, after the cessation of income on account of any
cause specified in the will other than death, it should be lawful for the trustees, in their discretion, but without its being obligatory upon them, to pay to
or apply for the use of A., or that of his wife and family, the income to which
he would have been entitled in case the forfeiture had not happened, - Held,
that the bankruptcy or insolvency f A. terminated all his legal vested right

Oct. 1875.]

8.

4.

6.

6.

7.

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, v. EATON ET AL.

in the estate, and left nothing in him to which his creditors or his assignee in
bankruptcy could assert a valid claim. Hdd, further, that a payment voluntarily made to A., after his bankruptcy, by the trustees under the terms of
the discretion reposed in them cannot be subjected to the control of his
assignee.
No case is cited or known to the court which goes so far as to hold that an
absolute discretion in trustees - a discretion which, by the express language of the will, they are under no obligation to exercise in favor of the
bankrupt -confers such an interest on the latter as can be successfully
asserted in any court by him or his assignee in bankruptcy.
When trustees are in existence, and capable of acting, a court of equity will
not interfere to control them in the exercise of a discretion vested in them
by the instrument under which they act.
While the will in question is considered valid in all its parts upon the extremest
doctrine of the English Chancery Court, this court does not wish it understood that it accepts the limitations which that court has placed upon the
power of testamentary disposition of property by its owner; nor does it
sanction the doctrine that the power of alienation is a necessary incident to
a devisee's life-estate in real property, or that the rents and profits of real and
the income and dividends of personal property cannot be given and granted
by a testator to a person free from all liability for the debts of the latter.
If that doctrine be sustained at all, it must rest exclusively on the rights of
creditors: but, in this country, all wills or other instruments creating such
trust-estates are recorded in public offices, where they may be inspected by
every one. The law, in such cases, imputes to all persons concerned
notice of all the facts which they might know by inspection. When,
therefore, it appears by the record of a will that the devisee holds either a lifeestate, or the income, dividends, or rents of real or personal property payable to him alone, to the exclusion of the alienee or creditor, the latter knows
that he has no right to look to that estate, or to such income, dividends, or
rents, as a fund to which he can resort to enforce the payment of a claim
against the devisee. In giving the latter credit, he is neither misled nor
defrauded when the object of the testator is carried out by excluding him
from any benefit of such a devise.
American cases cited and examined.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Rhode Island.
The controversy in this case arises on the construction and
legal effect of certain clauses in the will of Mrs. Sarah B.
Eaton. At the time of her death, and at the date of her will,
she had three sons and a daughter; being herself a widow, and
possessed of large means of her own. By her will, she devised
her estate, real and personal, to three trustees, upon trusts to
pay the rents, profits, dividends, interest, and income of the
trust-property to her four children equally, for and during
their natural lives, and, after their decease, in trust for such

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

of their children as shall attain the age of twenty-one, or shall
die under that age having lawful issue living; subject to the
condition, that if any of her children should die without leaving any child who should survive the testatrix and attain the
age of twenty-one years, or die under that age leaving lawful
issue living at his or her decease, then, as to the share or respective shares, as well original as accruing, of such child or
children respectively, upon the trusts declared in said will concerning the other share or respective shares. The will also
contained a provision, that if her said sons respectively should
alienate or dispose of the income to which they were entitled
under the trusts of the will, or if, by reason of bankruptcy or
insolvency, or any other means whatsoever, said income could
no longer be personally enjoyed by them respectively, but the
same would become vested in or payable to some other person,
then the trust expressed in said will concerning so much thereof
as would so vest should immediately cease and determine. In
that case, during the residue of the life of such son, that part
of the income of the trust-fund was to be paid to the wife and
children, or wife or child, as the case might be, of such son;
and, in default of any objects of the last-mentioned trust, the
income was to accumulate in augmentation of the principal
fund.
There is another proviso, which, as it is the main ground of
the present litigation, is here given verbatim, as follows: "Provided also, that in case at any future period circumstances
should exist, which, in the opinion of my said trustees, shall justify or render expedient the placing at the disposal of my said children respectively any portion of my said real and personal estate,
then it shall be lawful for my said trustees, in their discretion, but
without its being in any manner obligatory upon them, to transfer
absolutely to my said children respectively, for his or her own
proper use and benefit, any portion not exceeding one-half of the
trust-fund from whence his or her share of the income under the
preceding trusts shall arise ; and, immediately upon such transfer
being made, the trusts hereinbefore declared concerning so much
of the trust-fund as shall be so transferred shall absolutely cease
and determine; and in case after the cessation of said income as to
my said sons respectively, otherwise than by death, as hereinbefore

Oct. 1875.]

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, v. EATON ET AL.

provided for, it shall be lawful for my said trustees, in their discretion, but without its being obligatory upon them, to pay to or apply
for the use of my said sons respectively, or for the use of such of
my said sons and his wife and family, so much and such part of the
income to which my said sons respectively would have been entitled under the preceding trusts in case the forfeiture hereinbefore
provided for bad not happened."
The daughter died soon after the mother, without issue, and
unmarried. Amasa M. Eaton, one of the sons of the testatrix,
failed in business, and made a general assignment of all his
property to Charles A. Nichols for the benefit of his creditors,
in March, 1867; and in December, 1868, was, on his own petition, declared a bankrupt, and said Nichols was duly appointed
his assignee in bankruptcy. Said Amasa was then, and during
the pendency of this suit, unmarried, and without children.
He, William M. Bailey, and George B. Ruggles (a son of testatiix by a former husband), were the executors and trustees
of the will.
It will be seen at once, that whether regard be had to the
assignment before bankruptcy, or to the effect of the -adjudication of bankruptcy, and the appointment of Nichols as assignee
in that proceeding, one of the conditions had occurred on which
the will of Mrs. Eaton had declared that the devise of a part
of the income of the trust-estates to Amasa M. Eaton should
cease and determine; and, as he had no wife or children in
whom it could vest, it became, by the alternative provision of
the will, a fund to accumulate until his death, or until he should
have a wife or child who could take under the trust.
But Nichols, the assignee, construing the whole of the will together, and especially the proviso above given verbatim, to disclose a purpose, under cover of a discretionary power, to secure
to her son the right to receive to his own use the share of the
income to which he was entitled before the bankruptcy, in the
same manner afterwards as if that event had not occurred,
brought this bill against the said executors and trustees to
subject that income to administration by him as assignee in
bankruptcy for the benefit of the creditors.
Upon a final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill,
and Nichols appealed to this court.

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE,

v.

EATON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

Xfr. Horatio Rogers and MIr. C. S. Bradley for the appellant.
The principles of the law do not permit a debtor to have the
use and enjoyment of wealth to the exclusion of any rights of
his creditors; and hence in the law of trusts, peculiarly and
solely within the cognizance of courts of equity, contrivances
for the enjoyment of property by a debtor, and for withholding
it from his creditors, are against conscience, and void. Tillinghastv. Bradford,5 R. I. 212; Brandonv. Robinson, 18 Ves. 429;
Tud. Lead. Cas. (2d ed.) 862; Piery v. Roberts, 1 M. & K.
4; Kearsley v. Woodcock, 3 Hare, 185; Wallace v. Anderson,
16 Beav. 533; Sharp v. Casserat, 20 id. 470; Carr v. Living,
28 id. 644; Watson's Comp. of Eq., vol. ii. 1149; Graves v. -Dolphin, 1 Sim. 66; Green v. Spicer, 1 R. & My. 395; Younghusband v. Gisborne, 1 Coll. 400; Roper on Leg. (4th ed.) 794.
Confessedly no decided case has sustained the validity of a
discretion in trustees to give to a bankrupt the entire equitable
estate which he had prior to his bankruptcy. The doctrine of
chancery plainly is, that attempts, through the so-called discre.
tion of trustees, to secure that result, have ever been considered
as fraudulent devices to continue the property in him after
the law has taken away his capacity to retain it. Consequently,
what remains unapplied belongs to the assignee. Green v. Spicer, 1 R. & Myl. 395; Piery v. Roberts, 1 Myl. & Kee. 4;
Snowden v. -ales, 6 Sim. 524; Bippon v. Norton, 2 Beav. 63;
Kearsley v. Woodcock, 3 Hare, 185; Lord v. Bunn, 2 You. &
Coll. 98; -Davidsonv. Chalmers, 33 Beav. 653.
M/r. Abraham Payne and 111r. Samuel Currey for the appellees.
It is clear that the assignee in bankruptcy can take only
what was vested in the debtor at the date of filing his petition.
1 Benedict D. C. 407; In re Patterson,6 Int. Rev. Rec. 157;
Carletonv. Leighton, 3 Meriv. 667; 111itchell v. Winslow, 2 Story's
C. C. 630; 1 Jarm. on Wills, 816; .Hall v. Gill, 10 Gill & J.
325; In re Barret, 2 N. B. 165; Brown v. H~eathcote, 1 Atk.
162; Mitford v. M1itford, 9 Yes. 100.
The question then is, whether, under the will of ivfrs. Eaton,
her son Amasa had, at the date of filing his petition in bankruptcy, any vested interest in her estate which could pass to
his assignee. There is no question, that, until his bankruptcy,

Oct. 1875.]

NICHOLS,

ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

he had an absolute right to one-fourth of the income of the
trust-estate until the death of his sister, and after that time to
one-third of such income, so long as he did not attempt to
alienate or dispose of it. Upon the occurrence of either of
these events, the will provides that the trust in his favor
shall immediately cease and determine, and that thereafter
the income should be devoted to other trusts.
Such provisions for the cesser of income upon alienation er
upon the bankruptcy of the eestui que trust are unquestionably
valid. Tillinghast v. Bradford, 5 R. I. 205; Dommett v. Bedford, 3 Yes. 149; Brandon v. Robinson, 18 id. 429; Joel v. Hills,
3 K. & J. 458; Rochford v. Hackman, 9 Hare, 475; Cooper v.
Wyatt et als., 5 Madd. Ch. 297; 2 Story Eq., sect. 974; Bockford v. Hardeman, 10 Eng. L. & Eq. 67.
The powers under which the trustees must act in making
payments are merely discretionary. They are expressly declared not to be imperative; and this is the distinction laid
down in the books between them and trusts. "Powers," says
Wilmot, 0. J., "are never imperative: they leave the acts to
be done at the will of the party to whom they are given.
Trusts are always imperative, and are obligatory upon the
conscience of the party intrusted." Attorney-General v. Downing, Wilm. 23. It is settled that the court will never exercise
a mere discretionary power, either in the lifetime of the trustees, or upon their death, or refusal to act. Hill on Trustees,
486. Nor will it interfere to control the trustees acting bona
fide in the exercise of their discretion. Id. 489; Lewin on
Trusts, 538; Maddison v. Andrew, 1 Yes. 60; Boss v. Godsell,
1 Yo. & Col. 617.
Payments made by the trustees to Eaton in the exercise of
these powers would be in the nature of after-acquired property,
to which his assignee has no title. Any thing they may choose
to give is as much a free gift as though it came from the bounty
of an entire stranger.
MR. JUSTICE

MmLER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The claim of the assignee is founded on the proposition, ably
presented here by counsel, that a will which expresses a purVOL.1.

46

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. 0t.

pose to vest in a devisee either personal property, or the income
of persona] or real property, and secure to him its enjoyment
free from liability for his debts, is void on grounds of public
policy, as being in fraud of the rights of creditors; or as expressed by Lord Eldon in Brandon v. Robinson, 18 Ves. 433,
"If property is given to a man for his life, the donor cannot
take away the incidents of a life-estate."
There are two propositions to be considered as arising on the
face of this will as applicable to the facts stated: 1. Does the
true construction of the will bring it within that class of cases,
the provisions of which on this point are void under the principle above stated? and 2. If so, is that principle to be the
guide of a court of the United States sitting in chancery?
Taking for our guide the cases decided in the English courts,
the doctrine of the case of Brandon v. Robinson seems to be
pretty well established. It is equally well settled that a devise
:f the income of property, to cease on the insolvency or bankruptcy of the devisee, is good, and that the limitation is valid.
.Demmill v. Bedford, 3 Ves. 149; Brandon v. Robinson, 18 id.
429; Rockford v. akmen, 9 Hare; Lewin on Trusts, 80, ch. vii.,
sect. 2; Tillinghast v. Bradford, 5 R. I. 205.
If there had been no further provision in regard to the matter in this will than that on the bankruptcy or insolvency of
the devisee, the trust as to him should cease and determine; or
if there had been a simple provision, that, in such event, that
part of the income of the estate should go to some specified
person other than the bankrupt, there would be no difficulty
in the case. But the first trust declared after the bankruptcy
for this part of the income is in favor of the wife, child, or
children of such bankrupt, and in such manner as said trustees
"n their discretion shall think proper. If the bankrupt devisee
had a wife or child living to take under this branch of the will,
there does not seem to be any doubt that there would be
nothing left which could go to his assignee in bankruptcy.
The cases on this point are well considered in Lewin on Trusts,
above cited; and the doctrine may be stated, that a direction
that the trust to the first taker shall cease on his bankruptcy,
and shall then go to his wife or children, is valid, and the
entire interest passes to them; but that if the devise be to him

Oct. 1875.]

NICH3LS, ASSIGNEE,

V. EATON ET AL.

and his wife or children, or if he is in any way to receive a
vested interest, that interest, whatever it may be, may be separated from those of his wife or children, and be paid over to his
assignee. Page v. Way, 3 Beav. 20 ; Perry v. Roberts, 1 Myl.
& K. 4; Bippon v. Norton, 2 Beav. 63; Lord v. Bunn, 2 You.
& Coil. Ch. 98. Where, however, the devise over is for the
support of the bankrupt and his family, in such manner as the
trustees may think proper, the weight of authority in England
seems to be against the proposition that any thing is left to
which the assignee can assert a valid claim. Twopenny v. Peyton, 10 Sim. 487; Godden v. Crowkurst, id. 642.
In the case before us, the trustees are authorized, in the event
of the bankruptcy of one of the sons of testatrix without wife
or children (which is the condition of the trust as to Amasa Ml.
Eaton), to loan and reinvest that portion of the income of the
estate in augmentation of the principal sum or capital of the
,-state until his decease, or until he shall have wife or children
capable of receiving the trust of the testatrix forfeited by him.
There does not seem, thus far, any intention to secure or revest in the bankrupt any interest in the devise which he had forfeited; and there can be no doubt, that, but for the subsequent
clauses of the will, there would be nothing in which the assignee
could claim an interest. But there are the provisions, that the
trustees may, at their discretion, transfer at any time to either
of the devisees the half or any less proportion of the share of
the fund itself which said devisee would be entitled to if the
whole fund were to be equally distributed; and the further provision, that, after the cesser of income provided for in case of
bankruptcy or other cause, it shall be lawful, but not obligatory on her said trustees, to pay to said bankrupt or insolvent
son, or to apply for the use of his family, such and so much of
said income as said son would have been entitled to in case the
forfeiture had not happened.
It is strongly argued that these provisions are designed to
evade the policy of the law already mentioned; that the discretion vested in the trustees is equivalent to a direction, and
that it was well known it would be exercised in favor of the
bankrupt.
The two cases of wvopenny v. Peyton and Godden v. Crow-

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

hurst, above cited from 10 Sim., seem to be in conflict with this
doctrine; while the cases cited in appellant's brief go no farther than to hold, that when there is a right to support or
maintenance in the bankrupt, or the bankrupt and his family,
a right which he could enforce, then such interest, if it can be
ascertained, goes to the assignee.
No case is cited, none is known to us, which goes so far as to
hold that an absolute discretion in the trustee -a discretion
which, by the express language of the will, he is under no obligation to exercise in favor of the bankiupt - confers such an
interest on the latter, that he or his assignee in bankruptcy can
successfully assert it in a court of equity or any other court.
As a proposition, then, unsupported by any adjudged case, it
does not commend itself to our judgment on principle. Conceding to its fullest extent the doctrine of the English courts,
their decisions are all founded on the proposition, that there is
somewhere in the instrument which creates the trust a substantial right, a right which the appropriate court would enforce,
left in the bankrupt after his insolvency, and after the cesser of
the original and more absolute interest conferred by the earlier
clauses of the will. This constitutes the dividing-line in the
cases which are apparently in conflict. Applying this test to
the will before us, it falls short, in our opinion, of conferring
any such right on the bankrupt. Neither of the clauses of
the provisos contain any thing more than a grant to the trustees of the purest discretion to exercise their power in favor
of testatrix's sons. It would be a sufficient answer to any
attempt on the part of the son in any court to enforce the exercise of that discretion in his favor, that the testatrix has in
express terms said that such exercise of this discretion is not
"in any manner obligatory upon them," -words repeated in
both these clauses. To compel them to pay any of this income to a son after bankruptcy, or to his assignee, is to make a
will for the testatrix which she never made; and to do it by a
decree of a court is to substitute the discretion of the chancellor for the discretion of the trustees, in whom alone she
reposed it. When trustees are in existence, and capable of
acting, a court of equity will not interfere to control them in
the exercise of a discretion vested in them by the instrument

Oct. 1875.]

NiciOLs, AssIGNEE, V. EATON FT AL.

725

under which they act. Hill on Trustees, 486; Lewin on Trusts,
538; Boss v. Goodsall, 1 Younge & Collier, 617; laddison v.

Andrew, 1 Ves. Sr. 60.

And certainly they would not do so

in violation of the wishes of the testator.
But, while we have thus attempted to show that Mrs. Eaton's
will is valid in all its parts upon the extremest doctrine of the,
English Chancery Court, we do not wish to have it understood
that we accept the limitations which that court has placed
upon the power of testamentary disposition of property by its
owner. We do not see, as implied in the remark of Lord Eldon, that the power of alienation is a necessary incident to a
life-estate in real property, or that the rents and profits of
real property and the interest and dividends of personal property may not be enjoyed by an individual without liability
for his debts being attached as a necessary incident to such
enjoyment. This doctrine is one which the English Chancery
Court has ingrafted upon the common law for the benefit of
creditors, and is compaxatively of modern origin. We concede that there axe limitations which public policy or general
statutes impose upon all dispositions of property, such as those
designed to prevent perpetuities and accumulations of real
estate in corporations and ecclesiastical bodies. We also
admit that there is a just and sound policy peculiarly appropriate to the jurisdiction of courts of equity to protect credifors against frauds upon their rights, whether they be actual
or constructive frauds. But the doctrine, that the owner of
property, in the f ee exercise of his will in disposing of it,
cannot so dispose of it, but that the object of his bounty, who
parts with nothing in return, must hold it subject to the debts
due his creditors, though that may soon deprive him of all
the benefits sought to be conferred by the testator's affection
or generosity, is one which we are not prepared to announce
as the doctrine of this court.
If the doctrine is to be sustained at all, it must rest exclusively on the rights of creditors. Whatever may be the
extent of those rights in England, the policy of the States
of this Union, as expressed both by their statutes and the
decisions pf their courts, has not been carried so fax in that
direction.

NICHOLS, AsSIGNEE, v. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

It is believed that every State in the Union has passed statutes by which a part of the property of the debtor is exempt
from seizure on execuftion or other process of the courts; in
short, is not by law liable to the payment of his debts. This
exemption varies in its extent and nature in the different
States. In some it extends only to the merest implements of
household necessity; in others it includes the library of the
professional man, however extensive, and the tools of the mechanic; and in many it embraces the homestead in which the
family resides. This has come to be considered in this country
as a wise, as it certainly may be called a settled, policy in all the
States. To property so exempted the creditor has no right to
look, and does not look, as a means of payment when his debt is
created; and while this court has steadily held, under the constitutional provision against impairing the obligations of contracts
by State laws, that such exemption laws, when first enacted,
were invalid as to debts then in existence, it has always held,
that, as to contracts made thereafter, the exemptions were valid.
This distinction is well founded in the sound and unanswerable reason, that the creditor is neither defrauded nor injured
by the application of the law to his case, as he knows, when he
parts with the consideration of his debt, that the property so
exempt can never be made liable to its payment. Nothing
is withdrawn from this liability which was ever subject to it, or
to which he had a right to look for its discharge in payment.
The analogy of this principle to the devise of the income from
real and personal property for life seems perfect.
In this
country, all wills or other instruments creating such trust-estates are recorded in public offices, where they may be inspected
by every one; and the law in such cases imputes notice to all
persons concerned of all the facts which they might know by
the inspection. When, therefore, it appears by the record of a
will that the devisee holds this life-estate or income, dividends,
or rents of real or personal property, payable to him alone,
to the exclusion of the alienee or creditor, the latter knows, that,
in creating a debt with such person, he has no right to look
to that income as a means of discharging it. He is neither
misled nor defrauded when the object of the testator is carried
out by excluding him from any benefit of such a devise.

Oct. 1875.]

NiCHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET

AL.

Nor do we see any reason, in the recognized nature and tenure
of property and its transfer by will, why a testator who gives,
who gives without any pecuniary return, who gets nothing of
property value from the donee, may not attach to that gift the
incident of continued use, of uninterrupted benefit of the gift,
during the life of the donee. Why a parent, or one who loves
another, and wishes to use his own property in securing the object
of ids affection, as far as property can do it, from the ills of life,
the vicissitudes of fortune, and even his own improvidence, or
incapacity for self-protection, should not be permitted to do so,
is not readily perceived.
These views are well supported by adjudged cases in the State
courts of the highest character.
In the case of Fisherv. Taylor, 2 Rawle, 33, a testator had
directed his executors fo purchase a tract of land, and take the
title in their name in trust for his son, who was to have the
rents, issues, and profits of it during his life, free from liability
for any debts then or thereafter contracted by him. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held that this life-estate was not
liable to execution for the debts of the son. ,A man," says
the court, "may undoubtedly dispose of his land so as to secure
to the object of his bounty, and to him exclusively, the annual profits. The mode in which he accomplishes such a purpose is by creating a trust-estate, explicitly designating the
uses and defining the powers of the trustees. . . . Nor is such
a provision contrary to the policy of the law or to any act of
assembly. Creditors cannot complain because they are bound
to know the foundation on which they extend their credit."
In the subsequent case of Holdship v. Patterson, 7 Watts,
547, where the friends of a man made contributions by a written
agreement to the support of himself and family, the court held
that.the instalments which they had promised to pay could not
be diverted by his creditors to the payment of his debts; and
Gibson, C. J., remarks, that "the fruit of their bounty could
not have been turned from its object by the defendant's creditors, had it been applicable by the terms of the trust to his
personal maintenance; for a benefactor may certainly provide
for the maintenance of a friend, without exposing his bounty
to the *debts or imprudence of the beneficiary."

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

In the same court, as late as 1864, it was held that a devise
to a son of the rents and profits of an estate during his natural
life, without being subject to his debts and liabilities, is a valid
trust; and, the estate being vested in trustees, the son could
not alienate. Shankland's Appeal, 47 Penn. St. 113.
The same proposition is either expressly or impliedly asserted
by that court in the cases of Ashurst v. Given, 5 W. & S. 323;
Brown v. Williamson, 36 Penn. St. 338; Still v. Spear, 45 id.
168.
In the case of Leavitt v. Bierne, 21 Conn. Waite, J., in delivering the opinion of the court, says, "We think it in the
power of a parent to place property in the hands of trustees for
the benefit of a son and his wife and children, with full power
in them to manage and apply it at their discretion, without any
power in the son to interfere in that management, or in the
disposition of it until it has actually been paid over to him by
the trustees;" and he proceeds to argue in favor of the existence of this power, from the vicious habits or intemperate
character of the son, and the right of the father to provide
against these misfortunes.
In the case of Niccell et al. v. Handly et al., 10 Gratt. 336,
the court thus expresses its view on the general question, though
not, perhaps, strictly necessary to the judgment in that case:
"There is nothing in the nature or law of property which would
prevent the testatrix, when about to die, from appropriating her
property to the support of her poor and helpless relatives,
according to the different conditions and wants of such relatives; nothing to prevent her from charging her property with
the expense of food, raiment, and shelter for such relatives.
There is nothing in law or reason which should prevent her
from appointing an agent or trustee to administer her bounty."
In the case of Pope'sExecutors v. Elliott J Co., 8 Ben. Monr.
56, the testator had directed his executors to pay for the
support of Robert Pope the sum of $25 per month. Robert
Pope having been in the Rocky Mountains until the sum of
$225 of these monthly payments had accumulated in the hands.
of the executors, his creditors filed a bill in chancery, accompanied by an attachment, to subject this fund to the payment
of their debt.

Oct. 1875.]

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

The Court of Appeals of Kentucky say that it was the manifest intent of the testator to secure to Robert the means of
support during his life to the extent of $25 per month, or $300
per year; and that this intent cannot be thwarted, either by
Robert himself by assignment or alienation, or by his creditors
seizing it for his debts, unless the provision is contrary to law
or public policy. After an examination of the statutes of Kentucky and the general principles of equity jurisprudence on this
subject, they hold that neither of these are invaded by the provision of the will.
The last case we shall refer to specially is that of Campbell
v. Poster, 35 N. Y. Court of Appeals, 361.
In that case it is held, after elaborate consideration, that the
interest of a beneficiary in a trust-fund, created by a person
other than the debtor, cannot be reached by a creditor's bill;
and, while the argument is largely based upon the special provision of the statute regulating the jurisdiction of the court in
that class of cases, the result is placed with equal force of argument on the general doctrines of the Court of Chancery, and the
right of the owner of property to give it such direction as he
may choose without its being subject to the debts of those
upon whom he intends to confer his bounty.
We are not called upon in this connection to say how far we
would feel bound, in a case originating in a State where the
doctrine of the English courts had been adopted so as to become
a rule of property, if such a proposition could be predicated of
a rule like this. Nor has the time which the pressure of business in this court authorizes us to devote to this case permitted any further examination into the decisions of the State
courts. We have indicated our views in this matter rather to
forestall the inference, that we recognize the doctrine relied on
by appellants, and not much controverted by opposing counsel,
than because we have felt it necessary to decide it, though the
judgment of the court may rest equally well on either of the
propositions which we have discussed. We think the decree
of the court below may be satisfactorily affirmed on both of
them.
Other objections have been urged by counsel; such as that
the bankrupt is himself one of the trustees of the will, and

NICHOLS, ASSIGNEE, V. EATON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

will exercise his discretion favorably to himself. But there are
two other trustees, and it requires their joint action to confer
on him the benefits of this trust. It is said that one of them
is mentally incompetent to act; but this is not established by
the testimony. It is said also, that, since his bankruptcy, the
defendant, Amasa, has actually received $25,000 of this fund;
and that should go to the assignee, as it shows conclusively
that the objections to the validity of the will were well
founded.
But the conclusive answer to all these objections is, that, by
the will of decedent, - a will which, as we have shown, she had
a lawful right to make,- the insolvency of her son terminated
all his legal vested right in her estate, and left nothing in him
which could go to his creditors, or to his assignees in bankruptcy,
or to his prior assignee; and that what may have come to him
after his bankruptcy through the voluntary action of the
trustees, under the terms of the discretion reposed in them, is
his lawfully, and cannot now be subjected to the control of
his assignee.
-Decree affirmed.

