Oct. 1875.]

CooKE ET A,. v. UNiTED STATES.

proved; and there is nothing in the record to show that a skdlful mariner would have adopted any other course.
Examined in the light of these suggestions, it is clear, in the
judgment of the court, that the collision occurred on the American side of the channel, and that the propeller was wholly in
fault for the disaster. Both courts below concurred in that
view; and this court finds no error in the record.
-Decreeof the Circuit Court affirmed.

CooE ET AL,. v. U~N=

STATES.

1. Where notes purporting to be 7-30 treasury-notes, indorsed by the holders
thereof "to the order of the Secretary of the Treasury for redemption,"
were purchased, before their maturity, under the authority of the act of
Aug. 12, 1866 (14 Stat. 31), by an assistant-treasurer of the United
States, dd, that the payment by him therefor did not, without the further order of the Secretary of the Treasury, retire them. Until such
order be given, or until it ought to have been given, the government does
not accept the notes as genuine.
2. Where such notes, indorsed as aforesaid, and sold and delivered at different
times between Sept. 20 and Oct. 8 at the office of the sub-treasury of the
United States in New York, were returned Oct. 12 by the Treasury Department, as spurious, to the assistant-treasurer in that city, who had
purchased or redeemed them with the money of the United States, and due
notice was given the following day to the party from whom he had received them, - Held, that there was no such delay in returning the notes as
would preclude the United States from recovering the money paid therefor.
8. The ruling of the district judge, that though the notes may be printed in the
department from the genuine plates, and may be all ready to issue, yet, if
they are not in fact issued by an officer thereunto authorized, they do not
come within the statute of Aug. 12, 1866, and the United States are not
hound to redeem them,-Held to be error.

EnnOn to the Circuit Court of the Uited States for the

Southern District of New York.
The case was as follows

-

On the 3d of March, 1865, Congress authorized the Secretary
of the Treasury to borrow, on the credit of the United States,
not exceeding six hundred millions of dollars, and to issue
therefor bonds or treasury-notes of the United States, bearing
izteres; not exceeding seven and three-tenths per centum per

COOKE ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

annum, payable semi-annually. 13 Stat. 468.
Such notes
were not made a legal tender. Under this act, treasury-notes
to a large amount were issued by the Secretary of the Treasury,
payable three years after date.
On the 12th of August, 1866, Congress, by another act,
authorized the Secretary of the Treasury, at his discretion, to
receive any treasury-notes or other obligations issued under
any act of Congress, whether bearing interest or not, in exchange for any description of bonds authorized by the previous
act of March 3, 1865, and also to dispose of any description
of bonds authorized by such previous act . . . for lawful
money of the United States, or for any treasury-notes . . .
which had been, or which might be, issued under any act of
Congress, the proceeds thereof to be used only for retiring
treasury-notes or other obligations issued under any act of Congress ; but nothing therein contained to be construed to authorize any increase of the public debt. 14 Stat. 31.
On each of several days, from and including Sept. 20 and
Oct. 8, 1867T, the defendants below (the plaintiffs in error)
presented large amounts of treasury-notes purporting to be
issued under the act of 1865, dated June 15, 1865, and payable three years after date to the Assistant-Treasurer of the
United States at the city of New York, who purchased the
amount and description of notes at the prices and premium
mentioned in bills of sale made by the plaintiffs in error, and
paid them therefor with the money of the United States. Such
bills of sale were in the following form " Sold Hon. H. H. Van Dyck, Assistant-Treasurer of the United
States, No. 700, by Jay Cooke & Co., corner of Wall and Nassau
Streets, Sept. 20 : $400,000, June 7?,, 107 ....

$100,000, July

,,

.............

97 days . ..
........
107 ...
............
67 days ...

............

.$428,000
.

7,760
107,000

.

1,340
$544,100

Before the delivery of the notes, the plaintiffs in error, by a
stamp, which, for their convenience, they were permitted to
employ in lieu of their written signature, printed on the back

Oct. 1875.]

CoOKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

of each the words, "]Pay to the Secretary of the Treasury for
redemption. - Jay Cooke & Co."
The notes were forwarded to the Secretary of the Treasury
at Washington; and, on examination there, eighteen thereof,
of one thousand dollars each, were pronounced not to be genine treasury-notes issued by the government of the United
States, and were thereupon returned to the assistant-treasurer
at New York, who, on the 13th of October, 1867, duly notified
the plaintiffs in error, and required them to refund the money
paid for the counterfeit notes, or substitute other notes for
them. On the refusal of the plaintiffs in error to comply with
this requirement, this suit was brought.
The declaration contained special counts describing the cause
of action as an indebtedness by the defendants to the plaintiff
for money had and received by the defendants to and for the
use of the United States, and of their property, which money
was obtained by the defendants upon occasion of their delivering to the plaintiff what purported to be obligations of the
United States known as seven-thirty treasury-notes, which
were by the defendants, when they delivered them to the officer
of the sub-treasury, professed to be, and by the plaintiffs and
their officer aforesaid were then supposed to be, valid, genuine
notes; and by the defendants' representations and inducements
the same were received as valid, genuine notes by the plaintiffs
and their officer aforesaid at the sub-treasury of the United
States aforesaid, at the city of New York.
That the said notes were in fact counterfeit, and had never
been executed or issued by the United States, but had been
forged and falsely made and uttered, and were no obligations
of the United States, and were by their officers aforesaid received as afoiesaid under the belief created by the representations and inducements aforesaid that the notes were good,
and formed an adequate consideration for the money received
by the defendants, which money was retained by them from
the plaintiffs after discovery that the said notes were counterfeit, whereof prompt notice was given to the defendants, that,
being so indebted, the defendants promised, &c. There were
also other counts in general indebitatus assumysit for money
had and received.

COOKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The defendants pleaded non-assurnpsit.
Upon the trial, exceptions were taken by the defendants to the
ruling of the district judge in the admission and exclusion of
evidence, and also to certain portions of his charge to the jury.
A verdict was rendered in the District Court in favor of the
United States for the amount paid to the defendants, with interest thereon, - $23,630.88.
The judgment of the District Court was affirmed by the
Ciruuit Court: whereupon the defendants below sued out this
writ of error.
The alleged errors relied on here were as follows:First, That the District Court erred in refusing to charge the
jury in accordance with the prayer of the defendants below.
1. If the defendants honestly believed the notes in question
to be genuine obligations issued by the United States, and, so
believing, passed them in good faith to Mr. Van Dyck, the
Assistant-Treasurer of the United States, and the latter, under
the like belief and in good faith, received the notes and paid
for them, the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover, although the
notes may not have been genuine obligations issued by the
United States.
2. That, in determining whether the eighteen notes in question are genuine obligations, the jury are entitled to take into
consideration the fact that said notes were supposed to be
genuine by the assistant-treasurer in New York, and passed
through his hands and the hands of other officials connected
with the Treasury Department.
3. That the burden of proving that the eighteen notes in
question, "C 1" to "C 18," are not genuine obligations of the
United States, rests upon the plaintiffs; and, if the evidence be
insufficient to establish the fact that such notes are not genuine obligations as aforesaid, the defendants are entitled to a
verdict.
Second, That the court erred in ruling, during the progress
of the trial and in the charge, that defendants below were not
entitled to a verdict unless the notes in question were actually
issued under an act of Congress, and that the act of issuing
such notes was a physical act; and that although the notes were
printed in the department from the genuine plates, and might

Oct. 1875.]

COOKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

be all ready to issue, still, if they were not in fact so issued, the
defendants below were not entitled to a verdict.
Third, That the court erred in admitting in evidence the "K"
notes which were claimed by the government to be genuine,
and in admitting in evidence the coupons alleged to have been
attached to said notes, and to have been paid by the United
States.
Fourth, The court erred in admitting the following evidence
on the part of the United States: Questionsto Casilear. George W. Casilear, superintendent of
engraving and transferring in the Treasury Department, proved
that the work on the genuine "17-30 " notes was made up under
his supervision, and that the plates were engraved in the treasury-building under his superintendence, and that he did some
of the engraving on the plates, and he pointed out the particular portions of his work; but the plates were not produced.
He was asked these questions: "1. Q. From your observation of these notes, and your knowledge of the genuine plates, were these notes, 1C 1 ' to 1C 18,' printed
from those plates?"
Question objected to.

Objection overruled.

"2. Q. Were those eighteen notes, ' C 1' to ' C 18,' printed or
not from any plate referred to by you as having been got up by
you under your supervision in the Treasury Department, from
which 7-30 notes of the second series used by the government were
printed, so far as you know?"
Same objection.

Oyerruled.

"A. They were not."
Questions to Cooper. David M. Cooper, a witness for the
plaintiffs, testified that he engraved the original die from which
the seals used on the alleged genuine notes were produced by
what is termed the transfer process, and was asked these questions:" 3, Q. Could that die, which you engraved, have produced that
seal on the counterfeit?"
Objected to. Objection overruled.
-,A. It could not.

COOKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

"4. Q. Did you ever know of a note, like those marked ' C,' to
be printed from the plate from which the notes marked ' K' were
taken ?"
An exception was taken to this question, which was overruled, and the witness answered in the negative.
Fiftt, That the court erred in overruling and excluding the
following questions put by the defendants below: Question to Holmes. Plaintiffs below read from the letterbook of Jay Cooke & Co. twelve letters, copies of all of which,
except one which was illegible, are inserted among the exhibits
at the end of the case, which letters were received as admissions
by Jay Cooke & Co. that these identical notes had been transFerred by them to the assistant-treasurer.
The defendants thereupon offered to prove, by Philip W.
Holmes, that he wrote or drafted and sent all these letters,
acting on the information derived from the sub-treasurer that
the statement in reference to the notes being counterfeit was
correct, and without knowing about the identity of them. This
was objected to, and the objection sustained.
The eighteen notes claimed to be counterfeit were introduced in evidence by the United States, and marked "C 1'" to
"C 18."
Questions to Byerson. U. C. Ryerson, called as a witness
by defendants below, testified that he was in the transfer department of the "National Note Bureau," of which S. M. Clark
was at the head for three years, from February, 1863, to 1866.
The witness was asked, -

" Q. Do you discover any discrepancies or differences between
these two notes, which, in your experience, may not have been caused
by a defect in the transfer ?"
The question was overruled.
" Q. Look at these two notes, 'C' and 'IK.' Can you state
from your experience in the department, and from your knowledge of the plates there used to print the second series of seventhirty notes, whether or not these two classes of notes -' C' and
'K'-were printed from the same plate in different conditions,
occasioned by a re-entry ?"
Question excluded by the court.

Oct. 1875.]

COOKE ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.

Questions to Tichener, witnessfor defendants. He testified that
he was a geometrical-lathe operator, and familiar with other
branches of engraving.

" Q. Does it not sometimes occur, that, in the process of burnishing a roll, a portion of the work on the roll becomes obliterated
and erased, or in other respects changed ?
" Q. Can you, after an examination of these specimen-notes
C' (the notes alleged to be counterfeit) and I K' (valid notes),
and, if so, state whether they were printed from the same plate in
different conditions, caused by re-entering ?"
Questions excluded by the court.
Mr. J.E. Burrell and 1r. B. L. Ashhurst for plaintiffs in
error.
IThe debtor is presumed to know whether the obligations
paid by him are genuine; and money paid by him to an innocent holder of them cannot be recovered.
The transaction was not a purchase of securities.
The party to whom forged obligations are passed must immediately notify the person from whom he received them, and
tender the instruments. In this case, no notice was given until
three weeks had elapsed, and the notes had been defaced.
1Tomas v. Todd, 6 Hill, 840; 2 Pars. on Contr. 265.
The liability of government for acts of its agents is unquestionable. Story on Agency, 8th ed., 807 a; Martin v. Hlrott,
12 Wheat. 19-31.
Seven-thirty notes have all the qualites of commercial paper.
Mercer County v. Hacicet, 1 Wall. 83.
.f. Attorney- General _Pierrepont and Mr. Solicitor-General
-Phillips for the defendants in error.
When paid, these notes were not due; and they were paid
under a special authority derived from the act of 1866, ch.
39, 14 Stat. 31. By that act, the Secretary of the Treasury
was to apply certain funds thereby provided "for retiring
treasury-notes issued under any act of Congress." A treasurynote which originally went into circulation surreptitiously is
not included in that description.
If the assistant-treasurer had no authority to redeem these
notes, his action can be ratified only by Congress.

COOKE ET AL. v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The point, that the cancellation of the notes at the treasury
disables the government from recovery, is not well taken.
MR. CBSF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The United States sued Jay Cooke & Co., in this action, to
recover back money paid them by the assistant-treasurer in
New York for the purchase or redemption before maturity,
under the the act of Aug. 12, 1866 (14 Stat. 31), of what purported to be eighteen 7-30 treasury notes, issued under the
authority of the act of March 3, 1865 (13 Stat. 468), but which
it is alleged were counterfeit. Cooke & Co. insist, that if they
honestly believed the notes in question were genuine, and, so
believing, in good faith passed them to the assistant-treasurer,
and he, under a like belief, and with like good faith, received
and paid for them, there can be no recovery, even though they
may have been counterfeit.
As this defence meets us at the threshold of the case, it is
proper that it should be first considered.
It was conceded in the argument, that, when the United
States become parties to commercial paper, they incur all the
responsibilities of private persons uinder the same circumstances.
This is in accordance with the decisions of this court. The
Floyqd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 557; United States v. Bkc. of ffetropolis, 15 Pet. 377. As was well said in the last case, "From
the daily and unavoidable use of commercial paper by the
United States, they are as much interested as the community at
large can be in maintaining these principles." It was also conceded that genuine treasury-notes, like those now in question,
were, before their maturity, part of the negotiable commercial
paper of the country. We so held at the last term, in Vermilyc
" Co. v. -Express Co., 21 Wall. 138.
It is, undoubtedly, also true, as a general rule of commercial
law, that where one accepts forged paper purporting to be his
own, and pays it to a holder for value, he cannot recall the
payment. The operative fact in this rule is the acceptance, or
more properly, perhaps, the adoption, of the paper as genuine
by its apparent maker. Often the bare receipt of the paper
accompanied by payment is equivalent to an adoption within

Oct. 1875.]

CooKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATs.

the meaning of the rule; because, as every man is presumed to
know his own signature, and ought to detect its forgery by sim
ple inspection, the examination which he can give when the
demand upon him is made is all that the law considers necessary for his protection. He must repudiate as soon as he ought
to have discovered the forgery, otherwise he will be regarded
as accepting the paper. Unnecessary delay under such circumstances is unreasonable; and unreasonable delay is negligence,
which throws the burden of the loss upon him who is guilty of
it, rather than upon one who is not. The rule is thus well stated
in Gloucester Bank v. Salem Bank, 17 Mass. 45: "The party
receiving such notes must examine them as soon as he has
opportunity, and return them immediately: if he does not, he
is negligent; and negligence will defeat his action."
When, therefore, a party is entitled to something more than
a mere inspection of the paper before he can be required to pass
finally upon its character, - as, for example, an examination of
accounts or records kept byhim for the purposes of verification,
negligence sufficient to charge him -with a loss cannot be claimed
until this examination ought to have been completed. If, in
the ordinary course of business, this might have been done
before payment, it ought to have been, and payment without it
will have the effect of an acceptance and adoption. But if the
presentation is made at a time when, or at a place where, such
an examination cannot be had, time must be allowed for that
purpose ; and, if the money is then paid, the parties, the one in
paying and the other in receiving payment, are to be understood as agreeing that a receipt and payment under such circumstances shall not amount to an adoption, but that further
inquiry may be made, and, if the paper is found to be counterfeit, it may be returned within a reasonable time. What is
reasonable must in every case depend upon circumstances;
but, until a reasonable time has in fact elapsed, the law will not
impute negligence on account of delay.
So, too, if the paper is received and paid for by an agent, the
principal is not charged unless the agent had authority to act
for him in passing upon the character of the instrument. It is
the negligence of the principal that binds ; and that of the agent
has no effect, except to the extent that it is chargeable to the
principal.

COOKE ET AL. V. UNITED

STATES.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Laches is not imputable to the government, in its character
as sovereign, by those subject to its dominion. United States
v. Jfilpatrick, 9 Wheat. 735; Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wall.
269. Still a government may suffer loss through the negligence
of its officers. If it comes down from its position of sovereignty,
and enters the domain of commerce, it submits itself to the
same laws that govern individuals there. Thus, if it becomes
the holder of a bill of exchange, it must use the same diligence
to charge the drawers and indorsers that is required of individuals; and, if it fails in this, its claim upon the parties is lost.
United States v. Barker, 12 Wheat. 559. Generally, in respect to all the commercial business of the government, if an
officer specially charged with the performance of any duty, and
authorized to represent the government in that behalf, neglects
that duty, and loss ensues, the government must bear the consequences of his neglect. But this cannot happen until the
officer specially charged with the duty, if there be one, has
acted, or ought to have acted. As the government can only act
through its officers, it may select for its work whomsoever it
will; but it must have some representative authorized to act in
all the emergencies of its commercial transactions. If it fail
in this, it fails in the performance of its own duties, and must
be charged with the consequences that follow such omissions in
the commercial world.
Such being the principles of law applicable to this part of the
case, we now proceed to examine the facts.
The Department of the Treasury is by law located at the
seat of government as one of the executive departments, and
the Secretary of the Treasury is its official head. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 233; 1 Stat. 65. All claims and demands against the
government are to be settled and adjusted in this department
(Rev. Stat., sect. 236; 3 Stat. 366), and the Treasurer of the
United States is one of its officers. Rev. Stat., sect. 301 ; 1 Stat.
65. His duty is to receive and keep the money of the United
States, and disburse it upon warrants drawn by the Secretary of
the Treasury, countersigned by either comptroller, and recorded
by the register, and not otherwise. Rev. Stat., sect. 305; 1 Stat.
65. The rooms provided in the treasury-building at the seat
of government for the use of the treasurer are by law the

Oct. 1875.]

E LT
Cooi

AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

treasury of the United States. Rev. Stat., sect. 8591; 9 Stat.
59. Assistant-treasurers are authorized and have been appointed to serve at New York and other cities. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 8595; 9 Stat. 60. The rooms assigned by law to be occupied by them are appropriated to their use and for the safekeeping of the public money deposited with them. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 8598; 9 Stat. 59. The assistant-treasurers are to have
the charge and care of the rooms, &c., assigned to them, and to
perform the duties required of them relating to the receipt,
safe-keeping, and disbursement of the public money. Rev.
Stat., sect. 3599; 9 Stat. 59. All collectors and receivers of
public money of every description within the city of New
York are required, as often as may be directed by the Secretary
of the Treasury, to pay over to the assistant-treasurer in that
city all public money collected by them or in their hands.
Rev. Stat., sect. 8615; 9 Stat. 61. The Treasurer of the
United States, and all assistant-treasurers, are required to keep
all public money placed in their possession till the same is ordered by the proper department or officer of the government to
be transferred or paid out, and, when such orders are received,
faithfully and promptly to comply with the same, and to perform all other duties as fiscal agents of the government that
may be imposed by any law or by any regnlation of the Treasury Department made in conformity to law. Rev. Stat., sect.
8639; 9 Stat. 60. All money paid into the treasury of the
United States is subject to the draft of the treasurer; and, for
the purpose of payment on the public account, the treasurer is
authorized to draw on any of the depositaries as he may think
most conducive to the public interest and the convenience of
the public creditors. Rev. Stat., sect. 8644; 9 Stat. 61.
Thus it is seen that all claims against the United States are
to be settled and adjusted "in the Treasury Department;" and
that is located "at the seat of government." The assistanttreasurer in New York is a custodian of the public money,
which he may pay out or transfer upon the order of the proper
department or officer; but he has no authority to settle and
adjust, that is to say, to determine upon the validity of, any
claim against the government. He can pay only after the
adjustment has been made "in the Treasury Department,"

COOKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

and then upon drafts drawn for that purpose by the treasurer.
By the act of April 12, 1866, the Secretary of the Treasury
was authorized, at his discretion, to receive the treasury-notes
issued under any act of Congress in exchange for certain bonds;
or he might sell the bonds, and use the proceeds to retire the
notes. 14 Stat. 31. This exchange or retirement of the notes
involved an adjustment of the claims made on their account
against the government. That adjustment, as has been seen,
could only be had in the Treasury Department; and the government cannot be bound by any payment made without it,
through one of the assistant-treasurers, until a sufficient time
has elapsed, in the regular course of business, for the transmission of the notes to the department, and an examination and
verification there.
That such was the expectation of Congress is apparent from
the legislation authorizing the issue of such notes. On the 23d
December, 1857, an act was passed "to authorize the issue
of treasury-notes." 11 Stat. 257. The payment or redemption of these notes was to be made to the lawful holders upon
presentment at the treasury. Sect. 2. The notes were to be
prepared under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury,
and to be signed in behalf of the United States by the treasurer thereof, and countersigned by the register of the treasury.
Each of these officers was to keep, in books provided for that
purpose, accurate accounts, showing the number, date, amount,
&c., of each note signed or countersigned by himself, and also
showing the notes received and cancelled. These accounts
were to be carefully preserved in the treasury. Sect. 3. The
notes were made receivable for public dues. Sect. 6. The
officer receiving the same was required to take from the holder
a receipt upon the back of each note, stating distinctly the date
of payment and amount allowed. He was also required to
make regular and specific entries of all notes received by him,
showing the person from whom he received each note, the number and date thereof, and the amount of principal and interest
allowed thereon. These entries were to be delivered to the
treasurerwith the notes; and, if found correct, he was to receive
credit for the amount allowed. Sect. 7. To promote the public

Oct. 1875.]

CooKE

ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

convenience and security, and protect the United States as well
as individuals from fraud and loss, the Secretary of the Treasury
was authorized to make and issue such instructions as he should
deem best to the officers required to receive the notes in behalf
of, and as agents in any'capacity for, the United States, as to
the custody, disposal, cancelling, and return of the notes received, and as to the accounts and returns to be made to the
Treasury Department of such receipts. Sect. 8. The Secretary of the Treasury was directed to cause such notes to be paid
when they fell due, and he was authorized to purchase them at
par for the amount of the principal and interest due at the
time of the purchase. Sect. 9.
The act of July 17, 1861, "to authorize a national loan, and
for other purposes," provided for an issue of 7-30 treasury-notes,
and, in terms, re-enacted all the provisions of the act of Dec.
23, 1857, so far as the same were applicable and not inconsistent with what was then enacted. 12 Stat. 259, sects. 1
and 10.
The acts of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 218), and March 3, 1865
(13 Stat. 468), which authorized further issues of the same
class of notes, did not in terms re-enact the provisions of the
acts of 1857 and 1861; but they did authorize and require the
Secretary of the Treasury to make and issue such instructions
to the officers who might receive the notes in behalf of the
United States as he should deem best calculated "to promote
the public convenience and security, and to protect the United
States as well as individuals from fraud and loss." 13 Stat.
221, sect. 8.
These are public laws of which all must take notice. In the
absence of any evidence showing a regulation permitting an exchange or redemption of notes at any other place than the
treasury, and after settlement and adjustment in the department, it will not be presumed that one was made. The notes
in question are not made payable at any particular place: consequently they are in law payable at the treasury, and this is at
the seat of government and in the Treasury Department. In
this department the secretary represents the government. His
acts and his omissions,*within the line of his official duties, are
the acts or omissions of the government itself; and in all comVOL. I.

26

COOKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

mercial transactions his official negligence rill be deemed to be
the negligence of the government. He is specially charged
with the duty of retiring these treasury-notes by exchange,
payment, or purchase; and he is the only agent authorized to
act for the government in that behalf. All who deal with the
government in respect to these notes are presumed to know his
exclusive authority; for it is public law. Until such time,
therefore, as he has acted, or in due course of business ought to
have acted, there can have been no such laches as will charge
the gc-ernment. He is presumed to act officially only in his
department. His attention can only be demanded after the
presentation of the notes at that place. It was there that
the accounts and records of the issues and redemptions under the
early laws were by statute required to be kept; and that is the
appropriate place for keeping such similar records as the Secretary of the Treasury may by regulation prescribe, under the
later laws, to protect against fraud and loss.
Such seems to have been the understanding of the parties in
the transaction which is now under consideration. The notes
were "sold" to the assistant-treasurer, and were, by stamp
upon their back at the appropriate place for their indorsement, made payable "to the order of the Secretary of the
Treasury, for redemption." The payment by the assistanttreasurer under such circumstances, for the purchase, did not
"retire" the notes. That upon the face of the transaction required the further order of the Secretary of the Treasury. Undoubtedly it was expected, that, in due course of business, that
order would be given; but until given, or at least until it ought
to have been given, it cannot be said that the government has
accepted the notes, and adopted them as genuine.
Neither has there been such delay in returning the notes to
Cooke & Co., after their receipt by the assistant-treasurer, as
will throw the burden of the loss upon the government. The
return should have been made within a reasonable time; and
what is a reasonable time is always a question for the courts
when the facts are not disputed. Wiggins v. Burckam, 10 Wall.
133. Here there is no dispute. The notes were delivered to
the assistant-treasurer on different days between Sept. 20 and
Oct. 8. The first suspicion in Washington in regard to their

Oct. 1875.]

COO0KE ET

. v. UNITED STATES.

character was Oct. 5, when a note was found, of which, upon
inspection of the record, a duplicate was already in. All the
notes were found and returned to New York Oct. 12, and the
next day Cooke & Co. were notified.
The amount of 7-30 notes issued by the government was
many hundreds of millions of dollars. Necessarily, the accounts and records of their issue and redemption were voluminous. Between Sept. 20 and Oct. 8, Cooke & Co. themselves
sold to the assistant-treasurer for redemption more than
87,500,000. Other parties were at the same time making sales
to large amounts. Time must be given for careful examination
and scrutiny; and we do not think, that, under all the circumstances, any unreasonable delay occurred either in their transmission to or return from the Treasury Department.
We are all clearly of the opinion, therefore, that, if the notes
were in fact counterfeit, their receipt by the assistant-treasurer
and his payment therefor did not preclude the United States
from recovering back the money paid. So far, there was* no
error in the courts below.
It was, however, contended by Cooke & Co., that if the notes
were not counterfeit, but genuine notes unlawfully and surreptitiously put in circulation, the government was bound for their
payment to a bona-fide holder, and consequently that there
could be no recovery. We quite agree with the lamented
judge of the Circuit Court who had this case before him upon
error to the District Court, that the evidence tending to show
a fraudulent or surreptitious issue of notes printed from the
genuine plates was exceedingly meagre, and by no means sufficient to warrant a verdict to that effect; but the jury was
not permitted to pass upon that question, as the district judge
charged "that if the notes were printed in the department,
and all ready for issue, yet, if they were not in fact issued, the
United States could recover. The issue to bind the government," said the judge, "must be a physical act of an authorized officer."
It was conceded on behalf of the government, in the argument here, that, if the notes had been due when they were
received and paid, this part of the charge could not be sustained. We need not, therefore, examine that question. The

COOKE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

notes were perfect and complete as soon as printed. They did
not require the signature of any officer. As soon as they had
received the impression of all the plates and dies necessary to
perfect their form, they were ready for circulation and use. In
this respect they did not differ from the coins of the mint when
fully stamped and prepared for issue. Coin is the money of
commerce, and circulates from hand to hand as such. These
notes represent the promises of the government to pay money,
and were intended to circulate and take the place of money, to
some extent, for commercial purposes. Although not made
legal tender as between individuals, they were, for their then
face value, exclusive of interest, as between the government
and its creditors. 13 Stat. 221, sect. 8. They were issued
under the authority of "an act to provide ways and means for
the support of the government" (13 Stat. 218, title) in its great
peril, and they bore the "imprint of the seal of the Treasury
Department as further evidence of lawful issue." Id. 220,
sect. 6. Their aggregate amount was very large; and they
were of all convenient denominations, not less than ten dollars.
Id. 218, sect. 2. The people were appealed to, through their
patriotism, to accept and give them circulation. They entered
largely, and at once, into the commerce of the country, and
passed readily from hand to hand as, or in lieu of, money.
After the close of the war, they became, in a sense, too valuable for circulation, and were on that account, to a large extent, withdrawn, and held for investment.
But it is insisted on the part of the government, that as
the act of April 12, 1866, only authorized the Secretary of the
Treasury to retire, before their maturity, notes "issued" under
the authority of some act of Congress, he could only take up
such as were actually put out by the "physical act" of some
authorized officer of the government in pursuance of law.
This, we think, is too narrow a construction of the act. At
the time it was passed, the war of the rebellion was over. In
the prosecution of this war, an immense debt had been contracted. To meet the pressing demands upon the credit of the
government, various forms of securities had been put forth, some
of which, like those now under consideration, would mature at
an early date, and sooner, perhaps, than they could be met with-

Oct. 1875.]

COOKE ET AL. V. flNITED STATES.

out the negotiation of new loans. In view of this possible contingency, Congress seems to have been desirous of meeting its
obligations of this class, whenever they could be exchanged for
or retired with the proceeds of the sale of certain specified bonds
having a longer time to ran. The object evidently was to get
rid of this species of debt; and we think the act may be fairly
construed to authorize the retirement of all notes of this class
outstanding which the government would be required to meet
at maturity.
This leads to a reversal of the judgment. There have been
other errors assigned upon the rulings made in the progress of
the trial as to the admission of evidence. These need not be
specially alluded to. It is sufficient to say that we think there
is no error here. The same may be said as to the ruling of the
court upon the punching or cancellation of the notes. If they
were counterfeit, the cancellation could do no harm; for they
were worthiess before. If they were genuine, they had already
been cancelled by the payment.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded, with instructions to reverse the judgment of the
-JistrictCourt, and to award a venire de novo.
Mr. JUSTICE MmixR did not sit on the argument of this
cause, and took no part in the decision.
AIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD, with whom concurred M.

JUSTICE

F=iELD and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case,
1. Because I am of the opinion that the United States are not
liable for forged paper under any circumstances.
2. Because I am of the opinion that the United States are
not liable for its paper-promises fraudulently or surreptitiously
put into circulation, not even if the fraudulent act was perpe
trated by treasury officials.

