Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES V. A LS0N.

properly received in mitigation; at all events, did him no harm,
as he had proved no actual loss or injury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
AIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the Circuit Court
in this case, because the instruction given by the Circuit Court
to the jury was erroneous. Plaintiffs were entitled at least to
the actual damages sustained by them in view of the whole evidence. Unless the plaintiffs in such a case may recover something
more than nominal damages, the debt becomes valueless, as the
same conduct by the supervisors may be repeated indefinitely,
and the rule necessarily leads to practical repudiation.

UITEI) STATES V. ALISOIT.
The government printing-office not being a bureau or division of either of the
executive departments, or mentioned in the joint resolution of Congress of
Feb. 28, 1867,14 Stat. 669, the employgs thereof are not entitled to the additional compensation authorized by that resolution.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

This was a suit brought by Allison, an employd in the government printing-office, for additional compensation under the
joint resolution of Congress approved Feb. 28, 1867 (14 Stat.
569).
The court below found, as a matter of fact, that the claimant
was, on the day of the passage of the joint resolution, employed
in that office, being paid by the day; and, as a matter of law,
that the employds in the government printing-office, on the
28th of February, 1867, were employds in a bureau or division of
the Department of the Interior, within the meaning of the joint
resolution, and accordingly rendered judgment in favor of the
claimant.
From this judgment the United States appealed to.this court.
.Mr. olicitor-General Phillips for the appellant.
.Mr. James A. Garfield and Mr. Joseph Daniels, contra.

UNITED STATES v. ALLiSON.

[Sup. Ct.

AIR. CB=EF JUSTICE WIrE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Allison was an employ6 in the government printing-office
from June 30, 1866, to June 30, 1867, and, in this suit, claims
additional compensation for his services in consequence of the
joint resolution of Feb. 28, 1867. 14 Stat. 569. He contends
that the government printing-office was, during the fiscal
year commencing July 1, 1866, a bureau in the Department
of the Interior. If it was not, he substantially concedes that
he is not entitled to the benefit of the resolution.
The Department of the Interior is one of the executive departments of the government. Rev. Stat., sect. 437. It was
made so March 80, 1849. 9 Stat. 395. It is specially charged
with the supervision of certain executive bureaus. Its present
jurisdiction is defined in sect. 441, Rev. Stat. The government
printing-office has never been placed under its jurisdiction by
any express statute.
On the 26th August, 1852, Congress passed an act entitled
"An act to provide for executing the public printing and establishing the prices thereof, and for other purposes." 10 Stat. 30.
It is only necessary to say of this act, that it provided for the
appointment of a superintendent of public printing, and that he
was to give an official bond to be approved by the Secretary of
the Interior. His duties were carefully defined; and he was
made in fact, what his name implies, the superintendent of the
public printing by the public printers. These public printers
were, at that time, appointed by the two Houses of Congress,
each House appointing its own.
On the 23d of June, 1860, a joint resolution was passed by
Congress "in relation to the public printing." 12 Stat. 117.
This resolution dispensed with the public printers appointed
by the two Houses of Congress, and placed the whole subject
of public printing in charge of the superintendent. In the
language of the resolution (sect. 2), he was "to superintend
all the printing and binding, the purchase of paper, . . .the
purchase of other necessary materials and machinery, and the
employment of proof-readers, compositors, pressmen, laborers,
and other hands necessary to execute the orders of Congress
and of the executive and judicial departments at the city of

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED

STATES V. ALLISON.

Washington." To enable him more effectually to perform his
duties, he was to appoint a foreman of printing and a foreman
of binding. These foremen were required to report to him,
.and to furnish him their estimates of the amount and kind
of material required. He furnished them their supplies, for
which they accounted to him. He was also to report to Congress at the beginning of each session the number of hands
employed, and the length of time each had been employed:
and by sect. 9 it was made his duty to report to Congress "the
exact condition of the public printing, binding, and engraving;
the amount and cost of all such printing, binding, and engraving; the amount and cost of all paper purchased for the
same; a statement of the several bids for materials; and such
further information as may be within his knowledge iii regard
to all matters connected therewith." By sect. 8 he was required
to render to the Secretary of the Treasury, quarterly, a full account of all purchases made by him, and of all printing and
binding done in his office for each of the Houses of Congress
and for each of the executive and judicial departments. The
Secretary of the Treasury was also authorized to advance
money to him on account, and he was to settle his accounts of
receipts and disbursements in the manner then required of
other disbursing officers. By sect. 9 it was made the duty
of the superintendent, annually, to prepare and submit to the
register of the treasury, in time to have the same embraced in
the general estimates from that department, detailed estimates
of salaries and other necessary expenses of the printing establishment for the second year. By sect. 7 the joint committee on printing for the two Houses of Congress was directed
to fix upon a standard of paper for the printing of congressional
documents. The superintendent was to advertise for proposals
to furnish the government all paper necessary for the execution
of the public printing, and to furnish samples of the standard
paper to applicants therefor. The bids were to be opened by
him in the presence of the secretary of the Senate and the
clerk of the House of Representatives, and he was required to
award the contract to the lowest bidder. All differences in
opinion between the superintendent and the contractors were
to be settled by the joint committee on printing of the two
VOL. I.

20

UNITED STATES v. ALLISON-.

[Sup. Ct.

Houses. Whenever engraving was required to be dono to illustrate any document ordered to be printed by either House of
Congress, the superintendent was to procure it to be done under
the supervision of the committee on printing of the House
making the order. Sect. 8. By sect. 7 it was provided, that,
if the contractor for furnishing paper failed to make his deliveries, the superintendent might purchase for temporary supply
in the open market, "by and with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior." He was also, by the same section, to
render to the Secretary of the Interior, at the end of each
fiscal year, an account of all paper received from contractors,
and of all paper used for the purposes of the government under
that act; and also the amount of each class consumed in the
printing establishment, and in what works the same were used.
Defaults by contractors in furnishing paper under their contracts were to be reported by the superintendent, with a full
statement of all the facts, to the solicitor of the treasury for
prosecution.
The commissions of all officers under the direction or control
of the Secretary of the Interior must be made out and recorded
in the Department of the Interior, and the seal of the department must be affixed thereto. 10 Stat. 297, sect. 3. The
court below has found as a fact, that "in 1867 the commission
of the superintendent of public printing was made out and recorded in the Department of the Interior, and the seal of the
department affixed thereto, pursuant to the provisions of" this
act. It nowhere appears that any act of Congress expressly
required this to be done; neither does it appear at what time
in the year 1867 this commission was issued or recorded.
On the 22d February, 1867, Congress passed an act entitled
"An act providing for the election of the congressional printer."
By this act, the Senate was to elect some competent person "to
take charge of and manage the government printing-office."
He was given the same powers as the superintendent of public
printing. From and after the election of the congressional
printer, the office of superintendent of public printing was
abolished. 14 Stat. 397. The Senate elected a congressional
printer in pursuance of this act, Feb. 26; but he did not take
possession of his office until March 1, and the superintendent

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES

V. ALISON.

continued to act until that time. The superintendent was acting on the 28th February, when the resolution under which
Allison claims was passed.
In Manning's Case, 13 Wall. 578, it appeared that the guards
of the jail in the District of Columbia were selected by the
warden, but that their compensation was fixed and paid by
the Secretary of the Interior. It also appeared that the whole
subject of the jail was under the supervision of the secretary,
to whom the warden was required to report. Under these
circumstances, we held that the office of the warden of the jail
was a bureau or division of the Department of the Interior.
This is as far as any case has yet gone. The Secretary of
the Interior has no control whatever over the employment of
men by the superintendent of public printing. He cannot fix
their wages or supervise the action of the superintendent in
that particular. He does not pay them, and has no control
whatever of the funds out of which they are paid. He may
pay the superintendent for printing done upon the order 6f his
department; but the superintendent disburses without any accountability to him. In short, the superintendent seems to have
a department of his own, in which he is in a sense supreme.
Certainly he is not under the control of any one of the executive
departments. Apparently he is more responsible to Congress
than to any other authority. The Secretary of the Interior
keeps and approves his bond. The same secretary must, under
some circumstances, approve his purchases of paper in open
market. He sends to that department also his accounts of the
receipts and disbursements of paper. The joint committee on
printing in the two Houses of Congress settle all disputes between him and his contractors for the delivery of paper. He
reports to Congress in respect to his employds, and to the
Secretary of the Treasury in respect to his receipts and disbursements. From that department also he draws his money
upon proper requisitions. He is under the direction of the committees of each House of Congress in respect to engraving, and
he goes to the Secretary of the Treasury with his estimates.
In our opinion, his employds, as they are not specially enumerated, are not included in the resolution of Feb. 28, 1867.
and, on that account, this claim cannot be maintained.

HOOVER,

ASSIGNEE, V. WISE ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

The view we have taken of this case makes it unnecessary
to consider the effect of the election of a congressional printer
on the 26th February, 1867.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is reversed, and the
cause remanded, with instructionsto dismiss the petition.

HoovER, ASSIGIEE, v. WISE ET AL.
An account or money demand having been delivered by its owners to a collection agency with instructions to collect the debt, that agency transmitted the
claim to an attorney, who, knowing the insolvency of the debtor, persuaded
him to confess judgment. The money collected was transmitted to the collection agency, but never reached the creditors. Proceedings in bankruptcy
were instituted against the debtor within four months after such confession,
and were prosecuted to a decree. Held, that as the attorney was the agent of
the collection agency which employed him, and not of the creditors, his knowledge of the insolvency of the debtor was not chargeable to them in such sense
as to render them liable to the assignee in bankruptcy for the money collected
on the judgment. Quare, would they have been so liable bad the money
reached their hands ?

E ROR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by 31r. J. H. B. Latrobe for

the plaintiff in error, and 31r. 7W.W. Boyce, contra.
MR. JUSTICE ItUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is brought by an assignee in bankruptcy to
recover back a sum of money collected from the bankrupt after
the occurrence of several acts of bankruptcy.

Under the practice of the State of New York the case was
referred to a referee, upon whose report judgment was entered
at the special term in favor of the plaintiff. From this judg-

ment an appeal was taken by the defendants to the general term.
Upon the bearing at the general term this judgment was
reversed, and a new trial was ordered.
When a judgment is reversed, and a new trial ordered, two

modes of proceeding are open to the defeated party in the practice of the State of New York. He can accept the terms of

