Oct. 1875.]

BLACK ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

within the specified time. 11 Stat. 876; Phill. on Meekb
Liens, sect. 118.
Viewed in any light, it is clear that there is no error in the
record.
-Decreeaffirmed.

BLAcK m AL. V. UNITED STATES.
Where a contract provides for the transportation of military stores and supplies
from certain posts, ddpbts, or stations, or from and to any other posts, ddp6ts, or
stations, that might be established within a described district, or from one point
to another within the route, -Hetd, that Fort Phil. Kearney, being a military
post, although not specifically named in the contract, nor established after the
date thereof, was "1apoint" where the contractor was required to receive military stores and supplies for transportation to another point within the route,
and that he was entitled to payment under the contract and at the rates
therein mentioned for the distance they were actually carried, but not to
additional compensation for the travel of his unloaded teams in reaching that
fort.

from the Court of Claims.
A contract was entered into between the United States and
the claimants for the transportation of military stores and supplies on Route No. 1, west of the Missouri River, the material
provisions of which are as follows ArPE.

"ARTICLE 1. That the said Black, Kitchen, & Martin shall receive at any time, in any of the months from April 1, 1868, to
March 31, 1869, inclusive, from the officers or agents of the quartermaster's department at Fort D. A. Russell, in the Territory of
Dakota, or such point as may be determined upon during the year
on the Omaha branch of the Union Pacific Railroad, west of Fort D.
A. Russell, or at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, all such military
stores and supplies as may be offered or turned over to them for
transportation, in good order and condition, by the officer or agent
of the quartermaster's department, at any or all of the above points
or places, and transport the same with despatch, and deliver them
in like good order and condition to the officer or agent of the
quartermaster's department on duty or designated to receive them
at any of the posts or d6pbts that are now or may be established in
the State of Nebraska, west of longitude 102 degrees; in the Territory of Montana, south of latitude 47 degrees; in the Territory of
Dakota, west of longitude 104 degrees; in the Territory of Idaho,

BLACK ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. OL

east of longitude 114 degrees; and in the Territories of Utah and
Colorado, north of latitude 40 degrees, including, if necessary, Denver City, or at any other points or posts on the route, agreeably to
the instructions they may receive from the officer or other authorized agent of the quartermaster's department charged with the
duty of forwarding the stores and supplies at Fort D. A. Russell
or other place of departure; and for the faithful performance of
such service they shall be paid in the manner hereinafter provided
for in Art. XVII. of this agreement, and at the rates specified and
shown in the tabular statement hereto annexed and signed by the
parties to this agreement, which statement is considered as part
hereof.
"ART. II. That the said Black, Kitchen, & Martin agree and
bind themselves, their heirs, executors, and administrators, to transport under this agreement, from the posts, d6p6ts, or stations named
in Art. I., or from and to any other posts, d6p6ts, or stations that
may be established within the district described in said article, any
number of pounds of military stores and supplies from and between

one hundred thousand pounds and twenty-five millions of pounds
in the aggregate.
"ART. XIV. It is understood that if at any time stores or sup-

plies are required to be transported back to any point on the road,
or to any of the original points of departure, or fiom one point to
another within the route, they shall be carried upon the same terms
and conditions as herein provided.
"ART. XVII. For and in consideration of the faithful performance of the stipulations of this agreement, the said Black Kitchen,
& Martin shall be paid at the office of the quartermaster's department at Omaha, Nebraska, in the legal currency of the United
States, according to the distance supplies are transported, and
agreeably to the rates specified in the tabular statement hereto annexed, signed by the parties to this agreement."
In order to execute a requirement of the quartermaster's department for the removal of stores from Fort Phil. Kearney,
the claimants, having no teams at that post, were obliged to
send them there from Fort D. A. Russell and Fort Fetterman.
To recover $55,530 as compensation for the distance thus travelled, this action was brought.
The petition was dismissed by the court below.
Mr. C.T. Peck for the appellants, and lr. Assistant Attorney.
General -Edwin B. Smith for the United States.

Oct. 1875.]

BLACK ET AL. V. UNID STATES.

MRJ. Cm0 JUSTicE WAr=] delivered the opinion of the
court.
The transportation for which compensation is now asked
was "fro m one point to another within the route;" and full
payment has been made therefor "according to the distance
the supplies were transported, and agreeably to the rates specified in the tabular statement."
It is claimed, however, that as Fort Phil. Kearney, the point
at which the supplies were received for transportation, "was
within the route," the contractors are entitled to compensation
for the distance their teams travelled unloaded to reach that
place, as well as for the distance the supplies were carried.
This claim is based, not upon any express provision in the
contract requiring or even permitting such payment, but because, as is insisted, the service rendered was not included in
the obligations of the contract. The argument is, that the
places named in Art. I. are the only places at which the contractors were bound to receive the supplies to be transported.
But this excludes from consideration Arts. II. and XIV., by
which the contractors bound themselves not only to transport
under the agreement from the posts, d6p~ts, and stations named
in Art. I., but also "from and to any other posts, dep~ts, or stations that might be established within the district described in
said article," and "from one point to another within the route."
For the purposes of construction, we must look to the whole instrument. The intention of the parties is to be ascertained by
an examination of all they have said in their agreement, and
not of a part only.
In Caldwell's Case, 19 Wall. 264, we decided that the terms
"posts, d6p~ts, or stations," as used in Arts. I. and II. of his
contract, "in the presence of actual war, and in reference to
military stores," included military posts and stations alone.
Consequently, it was held that Caldwell could not claim the
right of transporting supplies from railroad stations within the
district which were not at the same time military posts, stations, or d6p8ts. In the present case, the starting-point was
Fort Phil. Kearney, a military "post," and, consequently, a
"point" within the district at which the contractor could,
under the ruling in Caldwell's Case, be required to receive

M1OORE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. 0t.

stores and supplies for transportation. It is a noticeable fact,
though perhaps under the circumstances of this case unimportant, that the provision for transportation "from one point to
another within the route" in Art. XIV. of this contract,
which was for 1868-69, is not in Caldwell's contract. The latter was for the year 1866. It is not impossible that the claim
made by him may have suggested the necessity for this change
iathe terms of such agreements. In his contract, too, Art. I.
provided that stores should be received for transportation "at
any points or places at which posts or d6p~ts shall be established." Here the same article provided that they should be
received "at such point as may be determined upon during the
year, on the Omaha branch, &c.," omitting the further provision
that it should be a "post" or "d6p6t."
We are clearly of the opinion that the services rendered by
these appellants were within the requirements of their contract, and that the only compensation they are entitled to is
for the distance the articles were actually carried, and agreeably to the rates specified.
I'e judgment is affirmed.

MOORE V. UIITED STATES.
1. Where Congress has not provided, and no slecial reasons demand, a different
rule, the rules of evidence, as found in the common law, ought to govern
the action of the Court of Claims.
2. The general rule of the common law, disallowing a comparison of handwriting
as proof of signature, has exceptions equally as well settled as the rule itself.
One of the exceptions is, that if a paper admitted to be in the handwriting
of the party, or to have been subscribed by him, is in evidence for some
other purpose in the cause, the signature or paper in question may be compared with it by the jury. The Court of Claims determines the facts as
well as the law, and may make the comparison in like manner as the jury.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was a suit to recover the sum of $5,780 on account of
cotton seized by the United States.
The court below found that the petitioner, a British subject,
owned and was possessed of 262,- bales of cotton stored in a warehouse in St. Joseph's, in the State of Louisiana.

