Oct. 1875.]

DAINESE

v. HALB.

itants of such State, or any section or part thereof where such
insurrection exists, are in a state of insurrection against the
United States; and tlzereupon all commercial intercourse by
and between the same and the citizens thereof, and the citizens
of the rest of the United States, shall cease and be unlawful
so long as such condition of hostility shall continue." Under
authority of this act, the President did issue such a proclamation on the 16th of August, 1861; and it stated that all
commercial intercourse between the States designated as in
insurrection and the inhabitants thereof, with certain exceptions, and the citizens of other States and other parts of the
United States, was unlawful. Both the act and the proclamation exhibit a clear implication, that before the first was enacted, and the second was issued, commercial intercourse was
not unlawful; that it had been permitted. What need of declaring it should cease, if it had ceased, or had been unlawful
before? The enactment that it should not be permitted after
a day then in the future must be considered an implied affirmation that up to that day it was lawful; and certainly Congress
had the power to relax any of the ordinary rules of war.
We think, therefore, the Court of Appeals was right in holding that the partnership of Brander, Chambliss, & Co., had not
been dissolved by the war when the acceptance upon which the
plaintiff in error is sued was made.
The judgment is affirmed.

DAnEsE v. RATE.
1. Judicial powers are not necessarily incident to the office of consul, although
usually conferred upon consuls of Christian nations in Pagan and Mahometan countries, for the decision of controversies between their fellow-citizens
or subjects residing or commorant there, and for the punishment of crimes
committed by them.
2. The existence and extent of such powers depend on the treaty stipulations
and positive laws of the nations concerned.
3.The treaty between the United States and the Ottoman Empire, concluded
June 5, 1862 (if not that made in 1830), has the effect of conceding to the
United States the same privilege, in respect to consular courts and the civil
and criminal jurisdiction thereof, which are enjoyed by other Christian
nations; and the act of Congress of June 22,1860, established the necessary
regulations for the exercise of such jurisdiction.

DAINESE V. HALE.

[Sup. OL

4. But as this jurisdiction is, in terms, only such as is allowed by the laws of
Turkey, or its usages in its intercourse with other Christian nations, those
laws or usages must be shown in order to know the precise extent of such
jurisdiction.
5. The court cannot ordinarily take judicial notice of foreign laws and usages:
a party claiming the benefit of them by way of justification must plead
them.
6. The defendant, as Consul-General of Egypt, in 1864 issued an attachment
against the goods of the plaintiff, there situate. The plaintiff, and the
persons at whose suit the attachment was issued, were citizens of the
United States, and not residents or sojourners in the Turkish dominions.
For this act the plaintiff brought suit to recover the value of the goods
attached. The defendant pleaded his official character, and, as incident
thereto, claimed jurisdiction to entertain the suit in which the attachment
was issued. Held, that the plea was defective for not setting forth the
laws or usages of Turkey upon which, by the treaty and act of Congress
conferring the jurisdiction, the latter was made to depend, and which alone
would show its precise extent, and that it embraced the case in question.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This action was brought to recover the value of certain goods,
chattels, and credits of the plaintiff, which the defendant, in
November, 1864, then being.Consul-General of the United States
in Egypt, caused to be attached. The declaration alleged that
the defendant, by usurpation and abuse of his power as such
consul-general, and for the malicious purpose of injuring the
plaintiff, took cognizance of a certain controversy between the
plaintiff and Richard H. and Anthony B. Allen (all being citizens of the United States, and none of them residents of or
soj6urners within the Turkish dominions at that time), and
made and issued the order of attachment by virtue of which the
seizure in question was made.
The defendant pleaded, that, at the time of issuing the attachment, he was agent and Consul-General of the United States
in Egypt, and was furnished with a letter of credence from the
President of the United States to the Pacha ; that in his said
official capacity he exercised the functions and duties of a minister; and by the law of nations, as well as the laws of the
United States, he was invested with judicial functions and
power over citizens of the United States residing in Egypt, and,
in the exercise of those functions, took cognizance of the cause
referred to in the declaration, and issued the attachment complained of.

Oct. 1875.]

DATNESE V.

HALE.

To this plea there was a general demurrer, which was over
ruled.
Hr... P. Cuppy and 31r. S. S. ifenkle for the plaintiff in
error, and "Vfr. F. Penn Olarke for the defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant, by his plea, asked the court to take judicial
notice that his official character gave him the jurisdiction which
he assumed to exercise. Could the court do this? Can this
court do it?
It cannot be contended that every consul, by virtie of his
office, has power to exercise the judicial functions claimed by
the defendant ; for it is conceded that this is not the case in
Christian countries. And whilst, on the other side, it is also
conceded that in Pagan and Mahometan countries it is usual for
the ministers and consuls of European States to exercise judicial
functions as between their fellow~subjects or citizens, it clearly
appears that the extent to which this power is exercised depends
upon treaties and laws regulating such jurisdiction. The instructions given by the British Foreign Office to their consuls
in the Levant in 1844, as quoted by Mr. Phillimore, do not
claim any thing more. They say, AIR. Jus=oE BRADLEY

"The right of British consular officers to exercise any jurisdiction in Turkey in matters which in other countries come exclusively
under -the control of the local magistracy depends originally on
the extent to which that right has been conceded by the sultans of
Turkey to the British crown; and, therefore, the right is strictly
limited to the terms in which the concession is made. The right
depends, in the next place, on the extent to which the Queen, in
the exercise of the power vested in her Majesty by act of Parliament, may be pleased to grant to any of her consular servants
authority to exercise jurisdiction over British subjects." Int.
Law, vol. ii. p. 273, sect. 276.
Historically, it is undoubtedly true, as shown by numerous
authorities quoted by A~r. Warden in his treatise on" The Origin
and Nature of Consular Establishments," that the consul was
originally an officer of large judicial as well as commercial
powers, exercising entire municipal authority over his countrymen in the country to which he was accredited. But the

DAINESE V. HALE.

[Sup. Ct.

changed circumstances of Europe, and the prevalence of civil
order in the several Christian States, have had the effect of
greatly modifying the powers of the consular office; and it
may now be considered as generally true, that, for any judicial
powers which may be vested in the consuls accredited to any
nation, we must look to the express provisions of the treaties
entered into with that nation, and to the laws of the States
which the consuls represent.
The transactions which are the subject of this suit took place
in 1864; and the powers of our Consul-General in Egypt at that
time must be regulated by the treaties with Turkey and by the
laws of the United States then in force.
The first treaty between the United States and the Ottoman
Porte was concluded in 1830; and, amongst other things, it
provided, in Article III., that "American merchants established
in well-defended States of the Sublime Porte for purposes of
commerce shall not be disturbed in their affairs, nor shall they
be treated in any way contrary to established usages." By
Article IV., it was further provided as follows: "If litigations and disputes should arise between the subjects of
the Sublime Porte and citizens of the United States, the parties
shall not be heard, nor shall judgment be pronounced, unless the
American dragoman be present. Causes in which the sum may
exceed five hundred piasters shall be submitted to the Sublime
Porte, to be decided according to the laws of equity and justice.
Citizens of the United States of America, quietly pursuing their
commerce, and not being charged or convicted of any crime or
offence, shall not be molested; and, even when they may have committed some offence, they shall not be arrested and put in prison
by the local authorities, but they shall be tried by their minister or
consul, and punished according to their offence, following, in this
respect, the usage observed towards other Franks."
In 1848 an act of Congress was passed, entitled "An Act to
carry into effect certain provisions in the treaties between the
United States and China and the Ottoman Porte, giving certain
judicial powers to ministers and consuls of the United States
in those countries." 9 Stat. 276. A treaty had been made with
China in 1844, conceding to the authorities of the United
States full civil and criminal jurisdiction between citizens of

.Oct. 1875.]

DAmnESE V. HALE.

the United States in that country. The law was passed in
refe'ence to this treaty and to that with the Ottoman Porte
before cited.
This act contained regulations as to the mode of exercising
the judicial powers stipulated for in the treaty with China.
It conferred these powers upon the resident commissioner and
consuls respectively, and authorized them to adjudicate in
accordance with the laws of the United States and the common law, supplemented, when these were insufficient, by decrees and regulations to be made by the commissioner himself.
The commissioner, with the advice of the consuls, was to prescribe the forms of process and proceeding. By the tiwentysecond section of the act, its provisions, so far as related to
crimes commited by citizens of the United States, were extended to Turkey under the treaty of 1830, to be executed by
the ministers and consuls of the United States in that country,
-who were ex officio vested with the powers given by the act to
similar officials in China, so far as regarded the punishment of
crine.
It is evident that this act failed to confer upon the consuls
of the United States in Turkey any power to exercise judicial
functions in civil cases, whatever may have been the scope and
intention of the treaty of 1830. Whilst it may be true that
the expression in the third article of the treaty, that American
merchants shall not be disturbed in their affairs, nor treated
contrary to established usages, was understood to and did confer upon American merchants the same privileges of exterritoriality enjoyed by the subjects of other Christian nations, the
act of 1848 did not assume to enforce such a construction of it.
But, in 1860, another act was passed to carry into effect a
new treaty made with China in 1858, and other treaties made
with Japan, Siam, Persia, and other countries (12 Stat. 72), by
which very full and explicit regulations were again made in
reference to the exercise of judicial powers by ministers and
consuls of the United States in those countries. By the twentyfirst section of this act, the same declaration was made as in the
twenty-second section of the act of 1848 in reference to the criminal jurisdiction to be exercised by the minister and consuls of the
United States in Turkey; and a clause was added, giving them
VOL. 1.

2

DAINESE V. HALE.

[Sup. Ot.

civil jurisdiction also, as follows: "who [referring to such minister and consuls] are hereby ex officio vested with the powers
herein conferred upon the minister and consuls in China, for
the purposes above expressed, so far as regards the punishment of crime;" adding, "and also for the exercise of jurisdiction in civil cases wherein the same is permitted by the laws of
Turkey, or its usages in its intercourse with the Franks or other
foreign Christian nations."
So far, then, as the true construction of the treaty of 1830
would permit the exercise of civil jurisdiction by our consuls,
the act of 1860 authorized it to be exercised, and supplied all
the regulations necessary for that purpose.
In 1862 another treaty was entered into with the Ottoman
Porte, by which, after confirming all such parts of the treaty
of 1830 as were not abrogated or changed, amongst other things
it was provided, in Article I., as follows: "All rights, privileges, or immunities which the Sublime Porte now grants or
may hereafter grant to, or suffer to be enjoyed by, the subjects,
ships, commerce, or navigation of any foreign power, shall be
equally granted to and exercised and enjoyed by the citizens,
vessels, commerce, and navigation of the United States of
America." If, therefore, it be true, as laid down by writers
and public documents, that the subjects of other Christian
nations have and enjoy in Turkey the right to have their civil
controversies decided by their own minister and consuls, it
would seem clear, that under the treaty of 1862, if not under
that of 1830, the same right is guaranteed to citizens of the
United States.
But it is objected, that, in 1864, no act had been passed by
Congress to carry the last treaty into effect. Such an act was
passed in 1866, simply, however, extending to Egypt and the
consul-general there the provisions of the act of 1860. Sect.
11 of Appropriation Bill, 14 Stat. 322. This clause was probably adopted merely to obviate any doubt on the subject. For
as treaties made under the authority of the United States are,
by the Constitution, declared to be part of the supreme law of
the land, when they are complete in themselves, and need no
supplemental legislation to carry them into effect, such legislation is not necessary for the purpose of giving them force and

Oct. 1875.]

DOnsE V. HALE.

validity. So far as relates to the jurisdiction in question, this
is the character of the treaty of 1862, taken in connection wit
the act of 1860. The act gave the jurisdiction so far as usage
in Turkey would permit it. The treaty secured the consent of
the Turkish government to its exercise.
The State Department of the United States seems to have
regarded the treaty of 1830 as establishing the jurisdiction
in question. In the instructions contained in the "Consuls'
Manual," promulgated by the department in December, 1862
(adopting the learned opinion of Attorney-General Cushing,
dated Oct. 23, 1855), it is said that the acts of Congress of
1848 [and 1860] provide in terms for the exercise of judicial
authority by ministers and consuls in Turkey only so far as
regards the punishment of crime, leaving the question of civil
jurisdiction to stand upon treaties or the peculiar public law of
the Levant. § 165. And after referring to the language of Article III. of the treaty of 1830, which stipulated that "AAmerican
merchants established in the well-defended States of the Sublime Porte for purposes of commerce . . . shall not be dis-

turbed in their affairs, nor shall they be treated in any way
contrary to established usages," and conceding that its construction might admit of discussion, the following conclusions
were, nevertheless, reached: "As to all civil affairs to which no subject of Turkey is a party,
Americans are wholly exempt from the local jurisdiction; and in
civil matters, as well as criminal, Americans in Turkey are entitled
to the benefit of 'the usage observed towards other Franks.' . ..
The phrase in the second article engages that citizens of the United
States in Turkey shall not be ' treated in any way contrary to established usages' The ' established usages ' are the absolute exemption of all Franks, in controversies among themselves, from the
local jurisdiction of the Porte.
"The general doctrine thus in force in the Levant, of the exterritoriality of foreign Christians, has given rise to a complete system
of peculiar municipal and legal administration, consisting of,
"1. Turkish tribunals for questions between subjects of the
Porte and foreign Christians.
"2. Consular courts for the business of each nation of foreign
Christians.

DAINESE v. HALE.

[Slip. Gh.

" 3. Trial of questions between foreign Christians of different
nations in the consular court of the defendant's nation.
"4. Mixed tribunals of Turkish magistrates and foreign Christians, at length substituted in part for cases between Turks and
foreign Christians.
"5. Finally, for causes between foreign Christians, the substitution at length of mixed tribunals in place of the separate courts, an arrangement introduced first by the legations of Austria, Great
Britain, France, and Russia, and then tacitly acceded to by the
legations of other foreign Christian nations." Consuls' Manual of
December, 1862, §§ 169-171.
These conclusions, being publicly issued by the proper executive department of the government for the instruction and
guidance of our cousuls, are entitled to the highest respect in
construing the statutes and treaties upon which their powers
depend. And in view of the confirmatory as well as independent effect of the act of 1860, and the treaty of 1862, we have
no doubt, that in 1864, when the transactions in question took
place, the minister and principal consuls of the United States
in Turkey (including the consul-general in Egypt) had all
such jurisdiction in civil causes between citizens of the United
States as was permitted by the laws of Turkey, or its usages
in its intercourse with other Christian nations.
But here we are met by.a difficulty arising from the extreme
generality of the defence set up in the plea. What are the
laws of Turkey and its usages in its intercourse with other
Christian nations, in reference to the powers allowed to be exercised by their public ministers and consuls in judicial matters ? The plea does not inform us. It leaves the court to
infer or to take judicial knowledge of those laws and usages.
But can it do this? Foreign laws and usages are, as to us,
matters of fact, and not matters of law; and although the court
may take judicial cognizance of many matters of fact of public
importance, yet of foreign laws and customs, which are multiform and special in their character, it would be very dangerous
for it to do so, at least without having had them brought to its
attention and knowledge by previous adjudications or proofs.
The general fact that public ministers and consuls of Christian
States in Turkey exercise jurisdiction in civil matters between

Oct. 1875.]

SEM= S v. UNITED STATES.

their fellow-citizens or subjects might be assumed as sufficiently
attested by the works on international law and the acts and instructions of our own government. But the precise extent of
this iurisdiction is unknown to us. Whether it applies to any
but residents in Turkey, or to travellers as well; whether to
persons not in the country at all, but having property there, or
claims against persons who axe there; whether to cases like the
present, -where neither party resides in Turkey, or is sojourning
there, -axe questions which axe not answered by the ordinary
statements made in reference to this jurisdiction. As the power
of the consuls of the United States, according to the treaties
and laws as they stood in 1864, depended on the laws or usages
of Turkey, those laws or usages should have been pleaded in
some manner, however briefly, so that the court could have
seen that the case was within them; for, failing to do this,
the plea was defective in substance, and judgment should have
been rendered for the plaintiff on the demurrer.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the -Districtof (Jolumbia must be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to allow the defendant to amend his plea on payment qf costs.
SF

S V. Ui-TD STATES.

1. The power of amending a writ of error returnable to the Circuit Court is
vested in that court as fully as it is in the Supreme Court on writs of error
returnable to it.
2. The judgment of the Circuit Court ought not to be reversed for defects of
form in the process returnable on error to that court, which are amendable
by the express words of an act of Congress.
3. The proclamation of the President of the United States, bearing date Sept. 7,
1867, did not work the dismissal of legal proceedings against property seized
under the confiscation act of July 17, 1862, or provide for the restoration
of all rights of property to persons engaged in the rebellion.
4. Property so seized became the property of the United States from the date of
the decree of condemnation.
5. The writ of error vested the Circuit Court with complete jurisdiction; and
that court having reversed the second decree of the District Court, dismissing the libel, and adjudged that the first decree condemning the property
should remain in full force, might "proceed to pass such decree as should
have been passed" by the subordinate court; and, if a decree confirming
the sale of the property was necessary, it, was entirely competent for the
Circuit Court to pass it.

