NATIONAL BANK V. MERCHANTS'

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

NATIONAL BANK OF COmniERcE OF BOSTON V. iMiERHATS
NATIONAL BANK OF MEMPHIS.
1. A bill of lading of merchandise, deliverable to order, when attached to and
forwarded with a time draft, sent without special instructions to an agent
for collection, may be surrendered to the drawee on his acceptance of the
draft. It is not the agent's duty to hold the bill after such acceptance.
2. The holder of a bill of lading, who has become such by indorsement and by
discounting the draft drawn against the consigned property, succeeds to
the rights of the shipper. He has the same right to demand acceptance of
the accompanying draft, and no more; and, if the shipper cannot require
such acceptance without surrendering the bill of lading, neither can the
holder.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This was a suit brought by the Merchants' National Bank of
Memphis against the National Bank of Commerce of Boston
for alleged negligence in surrendering three bills of lading
attached to three drafts, - two at thirty days, and one on
sight, - which were sent by the Metropolitan National Bank of
New York to the defendant, who surrendered the bills of lading
to the drawees upon their acceptance of the drafts. These were
drawn against the cotton mentioned in the bills of lading. The
defendant had no information that the drafts had been discounted by the Bank of Memphis, and no instructions either
to surrender the bills upon acceptance, or to hold them until
payment of the drafts. The defendant had received through
the same bank in New York drafts to a large amount on the
same parties, accompanied by bills of lading, which they had
always surrendered on acceptance, except in one instance, when
special instructions were given to hold the latter until the
accompanying draft was paid.
A verdict was rendered for the plaintiff.
Several questions were raised in the court below; but it is
not deemed material to mention any thing more than two
portions of the charge of the court, which were as follows -

"In the absence of any consent of the owner of the bill of
exchange, other than such as may be implied from the mere fact of
sending for collection a bill of exchange, the bank so receiving the
two papers for collection would not be authorized to separate the

Oct. 1875.]

NATIoNAL BANK v. ME cHAm' BANK.

98

bill of lading from the bill of exchange, and surrender it before
the bill of exchange was paid?'
"If the Metropolitan Bank merely sent to the defendant bank
the bill of exchange with the bills of lading attached 'for collection,' with no other instructions, either express or implied from
the past relations of the parties, they would not be justified in
gurrendering on acceptance only."
To both of these instructions the defendant excepted.
31Messrs. H. T7 Paine and H. C. Hutchins for plaintiff in
error.
In the absence of instructions, the plaintiff in error was
authorized to infer that the bills of lading were annexed to the
drafts to secure their acceptance, and were to be surrendered
on acceptance. Lanfear v. Blossom, 1 La. Ann. 148; Coventry v. Gladstone, L. R. 4 Eq. 493; Gurney v. Behrend,
8 Ell. & Bl. 622; Shepherd v. Harrison et al., L. R. 4 Q. B.
196; Schuchardt et al. v. Hall eatal., 86 Md. 590; Bryan v.
NAix, 4 Ml. & W. 775; Marine Bank of Chicago y. TFright et al.,
48 N. Y. 1; Shepherd v. Htarrison et al., L. R. H. of L. 5, 116 ;
Wisconsin Bank v. Bank of British iN. A., 21 Upper Canada
Queen's Bench, 284; Clark v. Bank of Montreal, 13 Grant's
Ch.(Upper Canada) 211.
Mr. TV. G. Russell, contra.
The later authorities in England and this country hold, that
the holder of a draft, discounted bonafide for value, with the bill
of lading attached, holds it as security for payment, and not for
acceptance merely. Gilbertv. G-uignon, L. R. 8 Ch.16 (1872) ;
Seymour v. Newton, 105 Mass. 272; Newcomb v. Boston & Lowell
B.B., 115 Mass. 230; Stollenwerck et al. v. Thacher et al., 115
Mass. 224. The bank which holds the bill of exchange and the
bill of lading attached "for collection" holds them in trust for
both parties, and is under obligation not to detach one from
the other.
MR.JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The fundamental question in this case is, whether a bill of
lading of merchandise deliverable to order, when attached
to a time draft and forwarded with the draft to an agent
for collection, without any special instructions, may be sur-

NATIONAL BANK v. MIERCHANTS' BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

rendered to the drawee on his acceptance of the draft, or
whether the agent's duty is to hold the bill of lading after
the acceptance for the payment. It is true, there are other
questions growing out of portions of the evidence, as well
as one of the findings of the jury; but they are questions of
secondary importance. The bills of exchange were drawn
by cotton-brokers residing in Memphis, Tenn., on Green &
Travis, merchants, residing in Boston. They were drawn on
account of cotton shipped by the brokers to Boston, invoices
of which were sent to Green & Travis; and bills of lading were
taken by the shippers, marked in case of two of the shipments
"To order," and in case of the third shipment marked "For
Green & Travis, Boston, Mass." There was an agreement between the shippers and the drawees that the bill of lading
should be surrendered on acceptance of the bills of exchange;
but the existence of this agreement was not known by the Bank
of Memphis when that bank discounted the drafts, and took
with them the bills of lading indorsed by the shippers. We
do not propose to inquire now whether the agreement, under
these circumstances, ought to have any effect upon the decision
of the case. Conceding that bills of lading are negotiable, and
that their indorsement and delivery pass the title of the shippers to the property specified in them, and therefore that the
plaintiffs, when they discounted the drafts and took the indorsed
railroad receipts or bills of lading, became the owners of the cotton, it is still true that they sent the bills with the drafts to their
correspondents in New York, the Metropolitan Bank, with no
instructions to hold them after acceptance; and the Metropolitan Bank transmitted them to the defendants in Boston,
with no other instruction than that the bills were sent "for
collection." What, then, was the duty of the defendants ? Obviously, it was first to obtain the acceptance of the bills of
exchange. But Green & Travis were not bound to accept,
even though they had ordered the cotton, unless the bills of
lading were delivered to them contemporaneously with their
acceptance. Their agreement with their vendors, the shippers,
secured them against such an obligation. Moreover, independent of this agreement, the drafts upon their face showed that
they had been drawn upon the cotton covered by the bills of

Oct. 1875.]

NATIONAL BANK V. MERCHANTS' BANK.

95

lading. Both the plaintiffs, and their agents the defendants,
were thus informed that the bills were not drawn upon any
funds of the drawers in the hands of Green & Travis, and that
they were expected to be paid out of the proceeds of the cotton.
Bat how could they be paid out of the proceeds of the cotton if
the bills of lading were withheld? Withholding them, therefore, would defeat alike the expectation and the intent of the
drawers of the bills. Hence, were there nothing more, it would
seem that a drawer's agent to collect a time bill, without further instructions, would not be justified in refusing to surrender
the property against which the bill was drawn, after its acceptance, and thus disable the acceptor from making payment out
of the property designated for that purpose.
But it seems to be a natural inference, indeed a necessary
implication, from a time draft accompanied by a bill of lading
indorsed in blank, that the merchandise (which in this case
was cotton) specified in the bill was sold on credit, to be paid
for by the accepted draft, or that the draft is a demand for an
advance on the shipment, or that the transaction is a consignment to be sold by the drawee on account of the shipper. It is
difficult to conceive of any other meaning the instruments can
have. If so, in the absence of any express arrangement to the
contrary, the acceptor, if a purchaser, is clearly entitled to the
possession of the goods on his accepting the bill, and thus giving the vendor a completed contract for payment. This would
not be doubted, if, instead of an acceptance, he had given a
promissory note for the goods, payable at the expiration of the
stipulated credit. In such a case, it is clear that the vendor could
not retain possession of the subject of the sale after receiving the
note for the price. The idea of a sale on credit is that the vendee
is to have the thing sold on his assumption to pay, and before
actual payment. The consideration of the sale is the note. But
an acceptor of a bill of exchange stands in the same position as
the maker of a promissory note. If he has purchased on credit,
and is denied possession until he shall make payment, the transaction ceases to be what it was intended, and is converted into
a cash sale. Everybody understands that a sale on credit entitles the purchaser to immediate possession of the property
sold, unless there be a special agreement that it may be retained

NATIONAL BANK V. MERCHANTS' BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

by the vendor; and such is the well-recognized doctrine of the
law. The reason for this is, that very often, and with merchants generally, the thing purchased is needed to provide
means for the deferred payment of the price. Hence it is
justly inferred that the thing is intended to pass at once within
the control of the purchaser. It is admitted that a different
arrangement may be stipulated for. Even in a credit sale, it
may be agreed by the parties that the vendor shall retain the
subject until the expiration of the credit, as a security for the
payment of the sum stipulated. But, if so, the agreement is
special, something superadded to an ordinary contract of sale
on credit, the existence of which is not to be presumed. Therefore, in a case where the drawing of a time draft against a
consignment raises the implication that the goods consigned
have been sold on credit, the agent to whom the draft to be
accepted and the bill of lading to be delivered have been intrusted cannot reasonably be required to know, without instruction, that the transaction is not what it purports to be. He
has no right to assume and act on the assumption that the yendee's term of credit must expire before he can have the goods,
and that he is bound to accept the draft, thus making himself
absolutely responsible for the sum named therein, and relying
upon the vendor's engagement to deliver at a future time. This
would be treating a sale on credit as a mere executory contract
to sell at a subsequent date.
If the inference to be drawn from a time draft accompanied
by a bill of lading is, not that it evidences a credit sale, but
a request for advances on the credit of the consignment, the
consequence is the same. Perhaps it is even more apparent.
It plainly is, that the acceptance is not asked on the credit of
the drawer of the draft, but on the faith of the consignment.
The drawee is not asked to accept on the mere assurance that
the drawer will, at a future day, deliver the goods to reimburse
the advances: he is asked to accept in reliance on a security
in hand. To refuse to him that security is to deny him the
basis of his requested acceptance: it is remitting him to the
personal credit of the drawer alone. An agent for collection
having the draft and attached bill of lading cannot be permitted, by declining to surrender the bill of lading on the accept-

Oct. 1875.]

NATIONAL BANK V. MEImcHANTS' BANK.

97

ance of the bill, to disappoint the obvious intentions of the
parties, and deny to the acceptor a substantial right which by
his contract is assured to him. The same remarks are applicable to the case of an implication that the merchandise was
shipped to be sold on account of the shipper.
Nor can it make any difference that the draft with the bill
of lading has been sent to an agent (as in this case) "for collection." That instruction means simply to rebut the inference
from the indorsement that the agent is the owner of the draft.
It indicates an agency. Sweeny, v. Baster, 1 Wall. 166. It
does not conflict with the plain inference from the draft and
accompanying bill of lading that the former was a request for
a promise to pay at a future time for goods sold on credit, or a
request to make advances on the faith of the described consignment, or a request to sell on account of the shipper. By such
a transmission to the agent, he is instructed.to collect the money
mentioned in the drafts, not to collect the bill of lading; and
the first step in the collection is procuring acceptance of the
draft. The agent is, therefore, authorized to do all which is
necessary to obtaining such acceptance. If the drawee is not
bound to accept without the surrender to him of the consigned
property or of the bill of lading, it is the duty of the agent to
make that surrender; and if he fails to perform this duty, and
in consequence thereof acceptance be refused, the drawer and
indorsers of the draft are discharged. MJiason v. Hunt, 1 Doug.
297.
The opinions we have suggested are supported by other very
rational considerations. In the absence of special agreement,
what is the consideration for acceptance of a time draft drawn
against merchandise consigned? Is it the merchandise ? or is
it the promise of the consignor to deliver? If the latter, the
consignor may be wholly irresponsible. If the bill of lading
be to his order, he may, after acceptance of the draft, indorse
it to a stranger, and thus wholly withdraw the goods from any
possibility of their ever coming to the hands of the acceptor.
Is, then, the acceptance a mere purchase of the promise of the
drawer? If so, why are the goods forwarded before the time
designated for payment? They are as much, after shipment,
under the control of the drawer, as they were before. Why
vor.-I.

7

98

NATIONAL BANK V. MERCHANTS' BANK.

[Sup. Ct

incur the expense of storage and of insurance? And if the
draft with the goods or with the bill of lading be sent to a
bank for collection, as in the case before us, can it be incumbent upon the bank to take and maintain custody of the property sent during the interval between the acceptance and the
time fxed for payment? (The shipments in this case were
hundreds of bales of cotton.)
Meanwhile, though it be a
twelvemonth, and no matter what the fluctuations in the
market value of the goods may be, are the goods to be withheld from sale or use? Is the drawee to run the risk of falling prices, with no ability to sell till the draft is due ? If the
consignment be of perishable articles,- such as peaches, fish,
butter, eggs, &c., -are they to remain in a warehouse until
the term of credit shall expire? And who is to pay the warehouse charges? Certainly not the drawees. If they are to be
paid by the vendor, or one who has succeeded to the place of
the vendor by indorsement of the draft and bill of lading, he
fails to obtain the price for which the goods were sold.
That the holder of a bill of lading, who has become such by
indorsement and by discounting the draft drawn against the
consigned property, succeeds to the situation of the shipper, is
not to be doubted. He has the same right to demand acceptance of the accompanying bill, and no more. If the shipper
cannot require acceptance of the draft without surrendering
the bill of lading, neither can the holder. Bills of lading,
though transferable by indorsement, are only quasi negotiable. 1 Parsons on Shipping, 192; Blanchard v. Page,8 Gray,
297 a. The indorser does not acquire a right to change the
agreement between the shipper and his vendee. He cannot
impose obligations or deny advantages to the drawee of the
bill of exchange drawn against the shipment which were not
in the power of the drawer and consignor. But, were this not
so in the case we have now in hand, the agents for collection
of the drafts were not informed, either by the drafts themselves
or by any instructions they received, or in any other way, that
the ownership of the drafts and bills of lading was not still in
the consignors of the cotton. On the contrary, as the drafts
were sent "for collection," they might well conclude that the
collection was to be made for the drawers of the bills. We do

Oct. 18T5.]

NATIONAL BANK v. MERcHr1ns' BANK.

99

not, therefore, perceive any force in the argument pressed upon
us, that the Bank of Memphis was the purchaser of the drafts
drawn upon Green & Travis, and the holder of the bills of lading by indorsement of the shippers.
It is urged that the bills of lading were contracts collateral
to the bills of exchange which the bank discounted, and that,
when transferred, they became a security for the principal
obligation; namely, the contract evidenced by the bills of exchange, - for the whole contract, and not a part of it; and that
the whole contract required not only the acceptance, but the
payment of the bills. The argument assumes the very thing
to be proved; to wit, that-the transfer of the bills of lading
were made to secure the payment of the drafts. The opposite
of this, as we have seen, is to be inferred from the bills of
lading and the time drafts drawn against the consignments, unexplained by express stipulations. The bank, when discounting
the drafts, was bound to know that the drawers on their acceptance were entitled to the cotton, and, of course, to the evidences
of title to it. If so, they knew that the bills of lading could
not be a security for the ultimate payment of the drafts. Payment of the drafts by the drawees was no part of the contract
when the discounts were made. The bills of exchange were
then incomplete. They needed acceptance. They were discounted in the expectation that they would be accepted, and
that thus the bank would obtain additional promisors. The
whole purpose of the transfers of the bills of lading to the bank
may, therefore, well have been satisfied when the additional
names were secured by acceptance, and when the drafts thereby
became completed bills of exchange. We have already seen,
that whether the drafts and accompanying bills of lading evidenced sales on credit, or requests for advancements on the
cotton consigned, or bailments to be sold on the consignor's
account, the drawees were entitled to the possession of the
cotton before they could be required to accept; and that, if
they had declined to accept because possession was denied to
them concurrently with their acceptance, the effect would
have been to discharge the drawers and indorsers of the
drafts. The demand of acceptance, coupled with a claim to
retain the bills of lading, would have been an insufficient de

100

NATIONAL BANK V. MERCHANTS' BANK.

[Sup. Mt,

mand. Surely the purpose of putting the bills of lading into
the hands of the bank was to secure the completion of the
drafts by obtaining additional names upon them, and not to
discharge the drawers and indorsers, leaving the bank only a
resort to the cotton pledged.
It is said, that, if the plaintiffs were not entitled to retain the
bills of lading as a security for the payment of the drafts after
their acceptance, their only security for payment was the undertaking of the drawees, who were without means, and the promise
of the acceptors, of whose standing and credit they knew nothing. This may be true; though they did know that the acceptors had previously promptly met their acceptances, which
were numerous, and large in amount. But, if they did not
choose to rely solely on the responsibility of the acceptors and
drawers, they had it in their power to instruct their agents not
to deliver the cotton until the drafts were paid. Such instructions are not infrequently given in case of time drafts against
consignments; and the fact that they are given tends to show
that in the commercial community it is understood, that, without
them, agents for collection would be obliged to give over the
bills of lading on acceptance of the draft. Such instructions
would be wholly unnecessary, if it is the duty of such agents
to hold the bills of lading as securities for the ultimate
payment.
Thus far, we have considered the question without reference
to any other authority than that of reason. In addition to this,
we think the decisions of the courts and the language of many
eminent judges accord with the opinions we avow. In the case
of Lanfear v. Blossom, 1 La. Ann. 148, the very point was
decided, after an elaborate argument both by the counsel and
by the court. It was held that "where a bill of exchange
drawn on a shipment, and payable a certain number of days
after sight, is sold, with the bill of lading appended to it, the
holder of the bill of exchange cannot, in the absence of proof
of any local usage to the contrary, or of the imminent insolvency of the drawee, require the latter to accept the bill of
exchange, except on the delivery of the bill of lading; and
when, in consequence of the refusal of the holder to deliver
the bill of lading, acceptance is refused, and the bill protested,

Oct. 1875.]

NATIONAL BANK V. MERCHANTS' BANx.

101

the protest will be considered as made without cause, the drawee
not having been in default, and the drawer will be discharged."
This decision is not to be distinguished in its essential features
from the opinions we have expressed. A judgment in the same
case to the same effect wa6 given in the Commercial Court of
New Orleans by Judge Waifs, who supported it by a very convincing opinion. 14 Hunt's Merchants' Magazine, 264. These
decisions were made in 1845 and 1846. In other courts, also,
the question has arisen, What is the duty of a collecting bank
to which time drafts, with bills of lading attached, have been
sent for collection ? and the decisions have been, that the agent
is bound to deliver the bills of lading to the acceptor on his acceptance. In the case The Wisconsin Marine &' Fire Insuranee Company v. The Bank of British North America, 21 Upper

Canada Queen's Bench, 284, decided in 1861, where it appeared that the plaintiff, a bank at Milwaukee, Wis., had
sent to the defendants, a bank at Toronto, for collection, a bill
drawn by A. at Milwaukee on B. at Toronto, payable fortyfive days after date, together with a bill of lading, indorsed by
A., for certain wheat sent from Milwaukee to Toronto, it was
held, that, in the absence of any instructions to the contrary,
the defendants were not bound to retain the bill of lading until
payment of the draft by B., but were right in giving it up to
him on obtaining his acceptance. This case was reviewed in
1863 in the Court of Error and Appeals, and the judgment
affirmed. 2 Upper Canada Error and Appeal Reps. 282. See
also aoodenough v. The City Bank, 10 Upper Canada Com.

Pleas, 5 - ; Clark v. The Bank of Montreal, 13 Grant's Ch.
211.
There are also many expressions of opinion by the most
respectable courts, which, though not judgments, and therefore not authorities, are of weight in determining what are
the implications of such a state of facts as this case exhibits.
In Shepherd v. Harrisonet at., L. R. Q. B., vol. iv., p. 493, Lord
Cockburn said, "The authorities are equally good to show,
when the consignor sends the bill of lading to an agent in this
country to be by him handed over to the consignee, and accompanies that with bills of exc]aige to be accepted by the consignee," that that "indicates an intention that the handing over

102

NATioNAL BANK V.

miCHiANTS' BANK.

[Sup, Ct.

of the bill of lading, and the acceptance of the bill or bills of
exchange, should be concurrent parts of one and the same transaction." The case subsequently went to the House of Lords,
5 H. L. 133 ; when Lord Cairns said, "If they (the drawees)
accept the cargo and bill of lading, and accept the bill of
exchange drawn against the cargo, the object of those who
shipped the goods is obtained. They have got the bill of
exchange in return for the cargo; they discount, or use it as
they think proper; and they are virtually paid for the goods."
In Coventry v. Gladstone, 4 L. R. Eq. 493, it was declared
by the Vice-Chancellor that "the parties shipping the goods
from Calcutta, in the absence of any stipulation to the contrary,
did give their agents in England full authority, if they thought
fit, to pass over the bill of lading to the person who had accepted
the bill of exchange" drawn against the goods, and attached to
the bill of lading; and it was ruled that an alleged custom of
trade to retain the bill of lading until payment of the accompanying draft on account of the consignment was exceptional,
and was not established as being the usual course of business.
In Schuchardt et al. v. Hall et al., 39 Ald. 590, which was a
case of a time draft, accompanied by a bill of lading, hypothecated by the drawer, both for the acceptance and payment of
the draft, and when the drawers had been authorized to draw
against the cargo shipped, it was said by the court, "Under
their contract with the defendants, the latter were authorized
to draw only against the cargo of wheat to be shipped by the
' Ocean Belle;' and they (the drawees) were, therefore, not bound
to accept without the delivery to them of the bill of lading."
See also the language of the judges in Gurney v. Behrend,3 Ell.
& Bl. 622; iMfarine Bank v. Wright, 48 N. Y. 1; Cayuga Bank
v. Daniels, 47 id. 631.
We have been unable to discover a single decision of any
court holding the opposite doctrines. Those to which we have
been referred as directly in point determine nothing of the
kind. Gilbert v. Guignon, L. R. 8 Ch. 16, was a contest
between two holders of several bills of lading of the same shipment. The question was, Which had priority? It was not all
whether the drawee of a time draft against a consignment has
not a right to the bill of lading when he accepts. The drawer

Oct. 1875.]

NATIONAL BANx V. MERCHANTS' BANK.

103

had accepted without requiring the surrender of the first
indorsed bill of lading; and the Lord Chancellor, while suggesting a query whether he might not have declined to accept
unless the bills of lading were at the same time delivered up to
him, remarked, "If he was content they should remain in the
hands of the holder, it was exactly the same thing as if he had
previously and originally authorized that course of proceeding;
and that (according to the Chancellor's view) was actually
what had happened in the case." Nothing, therefore, was
decided respecting the rights of the holder of a time draft, to
which a bill of lading is attached, as against the drawee. The
contest was wholly inter alios.
Seymour v. Newton, 105 Mass. 272, was the case of an acceptance of the draft, without the presentation of the bill of lading.
In that respect, it was like Gilbert v. Guignon. No question,
however, was made in regard to this. The acceptor became
insolvent before the arrival of the goods; and all that was
decided was, that, under the circumstances, the jury would be
authorized to find that the lien of the shippers had not been
discharged. It was a case of stoppage in transitu. It is true,
that, in delivering the opinion of the court, Chief Justice
Chapman said, "The obvious purpose was, that there should
-be no delivery to the vendee till the draft should be paid."
But the remark was purely obiter, uncalled for by any thing in
the case.

Newcomb v. TIe Boston & -Lowell Bailroad Corpo-

ration, 115 Mass. 230, was also the case of acceptance of sight
drafts, without requiring the delivery of the attached bills of
lading: and the contest was not between the holder of the drafts
and the acceptor; it was between the holder of the drafts with
the bill: of lading and the carrier. We do not perceive that
the case has any applicability to the question we have now under
consideration. True, there, as in the case of Seymour v. Newton,
it was remarked by the judge who delivered the opinion, "The
railroad receipts were manifestly intended to be held by the
collecting bank as security for the acceptance and payment of
the drafts." Intended by whom? Evidently the court meant
by the drawees and the bank; for it is immediately added,
"They continued to be held by the bank after the drafts had
been accepted by Chandler & Co. (the drawees), and until at

NATIONAL BANK V. MERCHANTS' BANK.

[Sup. Ct

Chandler & Co.'s request they were paid by the plaintiff; and
the receipts with the drafts still attached were indorsed and
delivered by Chandler & Co. to the plaintiff." In Stollenwerc
et al. v. Thacher et al., 115 Mass. 224 (the only other case
cited by the defendants in error as in point on this question),
there were instructions to the agent to deliver the bill of lading
only on payment of the draft; and it was held that the special
agent, thus instructed, could not bind his principal by a delivery of the bill without such payment. Nothing was decided
that is pertinent to the present case. In Bank v. Bay/ley,
reported in the same volume, p. 228, ithere the instructions
given to the collecting agent were, so far as it appears, only
that the drafts and bills of lading were remitted for collection,
and where acceptance was refused, Chief Justice Gray said,
"The drawees of the draft attached to each of the bills of
lading were not entitled to the bill of lading, or the property
described therein, except upon aceeptance of the draft." It is
but just to say, however, that this remark, as well as those
made by the same judge in the other Massachusetts cases cited,
was aside from the decision of the court.
After this review of the authorities cited, as in point, in the
very elaborate argument for the defendants in error, we feel
justified in saying, that, in our opinion, no respectable case can
be found in which it has been decided that when a time draft has
been drawn against a consignment to order, and has been forwarded to an agent for collection with the bill of lading attached,
without any further instructions, the agent is not justified in
delivering over the bill of lading on the acceptance of the draft.
If this, however, were doubtful, the doubt ought to be resolved favorably to the agent. In the case in hand, the Bank
of Commerce, having accepted the agency to collect, was bound
only to reasonable care and diligence in the discharge of its
assumed duties. Warren v. The Suffolk Bank, 10 Cush. 582.
In a case of doubt, its best judgment was all the principal had
a right to require. If the absence of specific instructions left
it uncertain what was to be done further than to procure
acceptances of the drafts, and to receive payment when they
fell due, it was the fault of the principal. If the consequence
was a loss, it would be most unjust to cast the loss on the
agent.

Oct. 1875.]

LoNG

LT AL. V. OONVERSE ET AL.

105*

Applying what we have said to the instruction giv6n by the
learned judge of the Circuit Court to the jury, it is evident that
he was in error. Without discussing in detail the several assignments of error, it is sufficient for the necessities of this case to
say that it was a mistake to charge the jury, as they were charged,
that "in the absence of any consent of the owner of a bill of
exchange, other than such as may be implied from the mere
fact of sending I for collection' a bill of exchange with a bill
of lading pasted or attached to a bill of exchange, the bank so
receiving the two papers for collection would not be authorized
to separate the bill of lading from the bill of exchange, and
surrender it before the bill of exchange was paid." And again:
there was error in the following portion of the charge: "But if
the Metropolitan Bank merely sent to the defendant bank the
bills of exchange with the bills of lading attached for collection,
with no other instructions, either expressed or implied from
the past relations of the parties, they would not be so justified
in surrendering (the bills of lading) on acceptance only." The
Bank of Commerce can be held liable to the owners of the
drafts for a breach of duty in surrendering the bills of lading
on acceptance of the drafts, only after special instructions to
retain the bills until payment of the acceptances. The drafts
were all time drafts. One, it is true, was drawn at sight; but,
in Massachusetts, such drafts are entitled to grace.
What we have said renders it unnecessary to notice the other
assignments of error.
Di~e judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed,and the record
is remitted with directions to award a new trial.

LOIG ET

AL. v. CONvERSE ET AL.

I. This court has no jurisdiction to review the decision of a State court against
a right and a title under a statute of the United States, unless such right
and title be specially set up and claimed by the party for himself, and not
for a third person under whom he does not claim.
2. So far as it relates to the above point, sect. 709 of the Revised Statutes,
which authorizes this court, in certain cases, to re-examine upon a writ of
error the judgment or decree of a State court, does not differ from the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
8. Former decisions of this court upon said twenty-fifth section cited and examined.

