UNITED STATES

v.

NORTON.

[Sup. ot.

HALL ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.

ERIROI to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Minnesota.
M

. JUSTICE CLIXFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Suffice it to say, that the suit in this case is in all material
respects exactly similar to the foregoing case, and that the
pleadings filed by the defendants are precisely similar. It was
commenced in the District Court; and the parties waived a jury,
and the finding and judgment were for the plaintiffs. Exceptions were filed by the defendants, and they removed the cause
into the Circuit Court. All the questions in the Circuit Court
were the same as in the preceding case; and the Circuit Coiu't,
having heard the parties, affirmed the judgment of the District
Court: whereupon the defendants sued out the present writ of
error. Due examination has since been given to the case, and
we find no error in the record. Our reasons for the conclusion
Judgment affirmed.
are given in the other case.

UNITED STATES V. NOITON.
1. The act entitled "An Act to establish a postal money-order system," approved
May 17, 1864 (13 Stat. 76), is not a revenue law within the meaning of the
act entitled " An Act in addition to the act entitled 'An Act for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States,'" approved March 26,
1804 (2 Stat. 290).
2. A person cannot be prosecuted, tried, or punished for the embezzlement of
money belonging to tie postal money-order office, unless the indictment
shall have been found within two years from the time of committing the
offence.

ON a certificate of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
The case was argued by Assistant Attorney- General Edwin B.
Smith for plaintiff, and by Xr. Abram Wakeman for defendant.
M. JUSTICE SWATNE delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears by the record that Norton was indicted for the
embezzlement at different times of money belonging to the

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES

v.

NORTON.

money-order office in the city of New York, he being a clerk in
that office when the crimes were committed.
The indictment was found on the 21st of February, 1874.
He pleaded "that the several offences did not arise, exist, or
accrue within two years next before the finding of said indictment." To this plea the United States demurred. Upon the
point thus presented as to the sufficiency of the plea the judges
were divided in opinion.
The indictment was founded upon the eleventh section of the
"Act to establish a postal money-order system," passed May
17, 1864. 13 Stat. 76.
The "Act for the punishment of certain crimes against the
United States," of the 30th of April, 1790 (1 Stat. 119, sect. 32),
declares, "Nor shall any person be prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offence not capital, nor for any fine or forfeiture
under any penal statute, unless the indictment or information
for the same shall be found or instituted within two years from
the time of committing the offence or incurring the fine or forfeiture aforesaid."
The act of the 26th of March, 1804, "in addition to the act
entitled 'An Act for the pumishment of certain crimes against the
United States,"' enacts (2 Stat. 290, sect. 3) "that any person
guilty of crimes arising under the revenue laws of the United
States, or incurring any fine or forfeiture by breaches of said
laws, may be prosecuted, tried, and punished, provided the
indictment or information be found at any time within five
years after committing the offence or incurring the fine or forfeiture, any law or provision to the contrary notwithstanding."
The substantial question presented for our determination is,
Which of these two provisions applies as a bar to a prosecution
for the offences described in the indictment? The solution of
this question depends upon the solution of the further question,
whether the " Act to establish a postal money-order system " is
a revenue law within the meaning of the third section of the
act of 1804.
The offences charged were crimes arising under the moneyorder act. The title of the act does not indicate that Congress,
in enacting it, had any purpose of revenue in view. Its object,
as expressly declared at the outset of the first section, was "to

UNITED STATES v. NORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

promote public convenience, and to insure greater security in
the transmission of money through the United States mails."
All moneys received from the sale of money-orders, all fees
received for selling them, and all moneys transferred in administering the act, are "to be deemed and taken to be money in
the treasury of the United States." The Postmaster-General is
authorized to allow the deputy-postmasters at the money-order
offices, as a compensation for their services, not exceeding "onethird of the whole amount of fees received on money-orders
issued," and at his option, in addition, "one-eighth of one per
cent upon the gross amount of orders paid at the office." He
was also authorized to cause additional clerks to be employed,
and paid out of the proceeds of the business; and, to meet any
deficiency in the amount of such proceeds during the first year,
$100,000, or so much of that sum as might be needed, was
appropriated.
There is nothing in the context of the act to warrant the
belief that Congress, in passing it, was animated by any other
motive than that avowed in the first section. A willingness is
shown to sink money, if necessary, to accomplish that object.
In no just view, we think, can the statute in question be
deemed a revenue law.
The lexical definition of the term revenue is very comprehensive. It is thus given by Webster: "The income of a nation,
derived from its taxes, duties, or other sources, for the payment
of the national expenses."
The phrase other sources would include the proceeds of the
public lands, those arising from the sale of public securities, the
receipts of the Patent Office in excess of its expenditures, and
those of the Post-office Department, when there should be
such excess as there was for a time in the early history of the
government. Indeed, the phrase would apply in all cases of
such excess. In some of them the result might fluctuate; there
being excess at one time, and deficiency at another.
It is a matter of common knowledge, that the appellative
revenue laws is never applied to the statutes involved in these
classes of cases.
The Constitution of the United States, art. 1, sect. 7, provides that "all bills for raising revenue shall originate in the
House of Representatives."

Oct. 1875.]

UNITED STATES

v,

NORTON.

The construction of this limitation is practically well settled
by the uniform action of Congress. According to that construction, it "has been confined to bills to levy taxes in the strict
sense of the words, and has not been understood to extend to
bills for other purposes which incidentally create revenue.'
Story on the Const., sect. 880. "Bills for raising revenue"
when enacted into laws, become revenue laws. Congress was
a constitutional body sitting under the Constitution. It was,
of course, familiar with the phrase "bills for raising revenue,"
as used in that instrument, and the construction which had
been given to it,
The precise question before us came under the consideration
of Mr. Justice Story, in the United States v. ifayo, 1 Gall, 396.
He held that the phrase revenue laws, as used in the act of 1804,
meant such laws "as are made for the direct and avowed purpose of creating revenue or public funds for the service of the
government." The same doctrine was reaffirmed by that eminent judge, in the United States v. Cushman, 426.
These views commend themselves to the approbation of our
judgment.
The cases of United States v. Bromley, 12 How. 88, and
United States v. Fowler, 4 Blatch. 811, are relied upon by the
counsel for the United States. Both those cases are clearly
distinguishable, with respect to the grounds upon which the
judgment of the court proceeded, from the case before us. It
is unnecessary to remark further in regard to them.
It will be certified, as the answer of this court to the Circuit
Court, that the indictment against Norton charges offences
for which, under the limitation provided in the thirty-second
section of the act of Congress approved April 30, 1790, entitled
"An act for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States," the defendant cannot be prosecuted, tried, or punished, unless the indictment shall have been found within two
years from the time of the committing of the offences; and
that the indictment is not for crimes arising under the revenue
laws, within the intent and meaning of the third section of the
act approved March 26, 1804, entitled "An Act in addition to
the act entitled ' An Act for the punishment of certain crimes
against the United States.'"

