Oct. 1875.]

FIRST UNITARIAN

Soo. v.

FAULKNER LT AL.

FIRST UNITARIAN SOCIETY OF CHICAGO

415

v. FAutiim-R ET AL

1. Where conversations of a third party were admitted in evidence on the assurance of counsel that they expected to prove that such third party was the
agent of the defendant, which, however, was not done, nor the attention of
the court afterwards called to the subject,-Held,that upon the hypothe.
sis of the case submitted to the jury in the charge of the court, the evidence
becoming immaterial, an exception to its admission was properly overruled.
2. Instructions given by the court are entitled to a reasonable interpretation,
and are not, as a general rule, to be regarded as the subject of error, on
account of omissions not pointed out by the excepting party.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The plaintiffs below, who are defendants here, brought suit
against the First Unitarian Society of Chicago to recover for
services rendered as architects in preparing plans for a churchedifice.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs below: whereupon
the defendant sued out this writ of error.
The assignment of errors is referred to in the opinion of the
court.
Submitted on printed briefs by Mr. Daniel L. Shoresy for the
plaintiff in error, and by Messrs. _B. ff. 0orwine, Quinton (orwine, & J. A. L. Whittier, contra.

M.R. JUSTICE CLiFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Services were rendered by the plaintiffs, as architects, in
making plans and designs, and in furnishing drawings, specifications, and estimates for the corporation defendants, preparatory to the erection and completion of a church-edifice for their
religious society. Annexed to the declaration is a bill of particulars, setting forth the claim of the plaintiffs, which is as
follows: -

For services as architects in making designs, plans, drawings, specifications, and estimates for a church-building, with basement, to cost seventy-eight thousand
.$2,730.00
.................
dollars .......
For second design and drawings, showing the elevation
of the church-building, with chapel in rear, and tower

416

FIRST UNITARIAN

Soo. v.

FAULKNER ET AL.

[Sup. 0t.

Amount brought forward .........
.. $2,730.00
between the church and chapel, to cost seventy thousand dollars .....
...............
..
700.00
For modification of the above design, with chapel in rear,
and tower at angle of the church, to cost seventy thousand dollars .....
...............
.
700.00
For design of church with basement, but without tower,
to cost forty thousand dollars ..
.........
...
400.00
$4,530.00
Due service was made, and the defendants appeared and
pleaded that they never promised in manner and form as
alleged in the declaration. Issue being joined, the parties went
to trial; and the verdict was for the plaintiffs, in the sum of
$3,862.50, part of which was subsequently remitted, and judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs in the sum of 82,900.
Exceptions were duly filed by the defendants to the rutlings and
instructions of the court, and they sued out the present writ of
error.
Enough appears in the transcript to show that the plaintiffs
were partners, seeking employment as architects, and that the
firm was represented in all the negotiations reported in the bill
of exceptions by the junior member of the firm. Testimony
was given by him at the trial, tending to prove that the plaintiffs, at the request of the defendants, had submitted plans to
the latter for a church-edifice, in competition with other architects, for the examination and choice of those composing the
defendant corporation. Evidence was also offered by the plaintiffs, consisting of the testimony of the same witness, tending
to prove conversations between him and the pastor of the
church, and of the action of the plaintiffs in consequence thereof ;
and they also offered his testimony in evidence tending to show
statements and admissions purporting to have been made by
the pastor, in relation to the employment of the plaintiffs by
the defendants as architects, at a social meeting of the church:
to all of which the defendants objected, because no evidence
had been given tending to show that the pastor was, in any
sense, the agent of the defendants, or that he had any authority to act for them in relation to the employment of the plaintiffs as architects.

Oct. 1875.]

FMST UNITARIAN

Soc. v. FiuLmj

E

ET AL.

417

Responsive to that objection, the plaintiffs stated to the court
that they expected to prove-that the pastor acted in that behalf
as the agent of the society, and that the society acquiesced in
his acts; and upon that understanding the objection was overruled, the court remarking that the testimony would become
material if the plaintiffs should subsequently give evidence to
prove the agency of the pastor at the time of the interview with
the business-partner of the plaintiffs when the plans were submitted or modified, and also at the social meeting of the society,
when certain members of the building committee and many
members of the society were present.
Exceptions were taken by the defendants to the ruling of
the court in admitting these several declarations and admissions; but the bill of exceptions shows to the satisfaction of the
court that the evidence was admitted subject to the condition
that the plaintiffs should subsequently prove that the party who
made the declarations was the agent of the society. No such
evidence was afterwards introduced by the plaintiffs; but the
bill of exceptions also shows that the attention of the court was
not again called to the subject, and that the case was submitted
to the jury on the hypothesis that it was not proved that the
plaintiffs were the architects of the society.
Declarations of the pastor were not competent evidence,
unless it was proved that he was the agent of the society, and
that the declarations or admissions were made in respect to
matters within the scope of his agency. But it is not absolutely
necessary that the proof of agency in every such case should be
hirst introduced. Except in special cases, it is the better practice that the foundation, in such a case, should be laid before
the declarations or admissions are admitted; but it is competent
for the presiding judge, if in his judgment the ends of justice
require it, to relax the rules of practice, and to admit the evidence offered before the proper foundation for the admissibility
of the same is laid, if he is well assured by the party offeing the
evidence that the agency in question will be subsequently proved.
Rules of practice, in conducting jury-trials, are necessarily
somewhat flexible; and that'remark applies as well to the rules
having relation to the order of proof as to those which regulate
the number of witnesses which a party may examine, or the
VOL. 1.

27

418

FIRST UNITARIAN Soc. v. FAULKNER ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

time, manner, or extent of a cross-examination. All agree that
in ordinary cases the plaintiff must begin, and the general rule
is that he must introduce all of his substantive evidence before
the defendant is required to open his defence; and the corresponding general rule applicable to the defendant is, that he
must introduce all of his substantive evidence before the plaintiff is required to give evidence in rebuctal.
Beyond all doubt, those are good general rules; but it
is competent for the presiding judge to relax either of them,
in case the ends of justice so require, and to allow evidence
to be given by either party in such other order as he, the
said judge, in the exercise of a sound discretion, may direct.
Where an agreement was offered in evidence, and it was necessary, in order that it should be competent for the consideration
of a jury, that proof should be given that the signer was authorized to execute it, and the instrument having been admitted
before the authority of the signer was proved, the opposite
party excepted to the ruling of the court in admitting it; but
Judge Story held that there was nothing in the exception, and
remarked that "it was as competent for the party to prove the
authority after, as it was before, giving the agreement in evidence." Bank v. Guttschlice, 14 Pet. 29.
Equally decisive are the views of this court as expressed in
a subsequent case in the same volume. Speaking of the general
subject, the court say, that the mode of conducting trials, the
order of introducing evidence, and the times when it is to be
introduced, are properly matters belonging to the practice of
the circuit courts, with which this court ought not to interfere,
unless it shall choose to prescribe some fixed general rules upon
the subject. Railroad Company v. Stimpson, 14 Pet. 463; Wood
v. U. S., 16 id. 361; Kelly v. Crauford, 5 Wall. 790.
State courts have adopted the same rules of practice ; and they
are of such immediate necessity, that we should come to the same
conclusion, even if the question was not controlled by the repeated decisions of this court. Smith v. Britton,4 Humph. 202 ;
Cushingv. Billings, 3 Cush. 159; Caton v. Carter, 9 G. & J. 477.
Whenever the strict rule is relaxed in such a case, it is the
duty of the party to whom the indulgence has been extended
to make good the assurances given to the court; and, in case
of unreasonable delay, it would be quite proper for the court to

Oct. 1875.]

FMT UNITARIAN SoC. v. FAULKNER ET AL.

419

call attention to the subject, and inform the delinquent party
that the evidence admitted would be stricken out unless proof
to lay the foundation for its admission was introduced before
the evidence was closed. Nor must it be understood that the
other party can remain silent, and suffer an error to be committed by the court, in order that he may have a valid exception
if the verdict is in favor of his adversary.
Viewed in any light, it was not an error in the court to admit
the evidence; and the attention of the court not having been
again called to the subject, and inasmuch as the bill of exceptions shows that the evidence admitted, in view of the hypothesis
adopted by the court in submitting the case to the jury, became
entirely immaterial, the exception is overruled.
Evidence was exhibited tending to show that the defendants, at a legal meeting held on the 22d of January, 1872,
appointed a building committee consisting of five persons, preparatory to the erection of a new church-edifice, and instructed
the committee to obtain plans for such a building, and to submit the plans to the society. Plans were accordingly solicited;
and it appears that several were submitted to the committee at
a subsequent meeting, and among others the plan prepared by
the business-partner of the plaintiffs. Preference, it seems,
was given to the plan of the plaintiffs, as appears by the action
of the committee. They voted to adopt the plan presented by
the plaintiffs, subject to certain conditions: (1.) That it be
modified according to the wishes and suggestions of the committee. (2.) That the contract for building the church shall
not exceed $58,000. (3.) That the action of the committee be
ratified at a legal meeting of the society.
Alterations were made in the plan; and the society subsequently instructed the committee to build the church according
to the first plan of the plaintiff architect, provided the same
could be built, all complete and satisfactory, at a cost not to
exceed $58,000, including such materials as the society had on
hand; and, if it could not be built at that cost, to build according to the plan of another architect, which was submitted to
the society at that meeting.
Proof was also introduced by the, defendants showing that
bids or contracts for the building of the church according to
the plaintiffs' plan could not be procured for less than $78,000,

420

FIRsT UNITARIAN

Soo. v.

FAULKNER ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

in consequence of which the society refused to construct the
church-building according to that plan. Payment for the
plans and modifications of the same furnished by the plaintiffs
being refused, they instituted the present suit to recover compensation for the services rendered in that behalf by their
business-partner.
Extended comments upon the evidence given to the jury
were made by the presiding justice; to a certain portion of
which remarks the defendants excepted. Before adverting to
those remarks, it is proper to state that the judge instructed the
jury, that if what the business-partner of the firm did, after the
qualified acceptance of his plan, was done upon the same conditions under which the various competing plans were originally
submitted, then the plaintiffs could not recover; nor could they
recover upon the theory that it was understood between the
parties that in case the plan of the plaintiffs should be ultimately rejected, as in fact it was, they were to have a reasonable
compensation for their services; by which is meant, as the court
here understands the matter, that there was no sufficient evidence in the case to prove such an express agreement. He
also'instructed the jury that the defendants were only liable for
the acts of agents duly authorized, or for acts of persons subsequently ratified by the society; and he also gave the jury
instructions as to the rule of damages in case they should find
for the plaintiffs.
Plans had been submitted in the beginning by several architects; and the presiding justice, in the course of his remarks,
adverted to that fact, and to the inquiry whether the plans were
submitted with the understanding on both sides that there was
to be no compensation unless the plans were accepted; and he
added, that, if such was the understanding, then every architect
worked at his own risk and cost. All we know upon the subject, continued the judge, is what is stated by the plaintiff
witness; from which it is perhaps fairly to be inferred that the
plans originally presented were submitted upon that understanding by all the architects in competition at that time. But the
difficulty in the case, said the judge, is, that the plan of the
plaintiffs was subsequently accepted in a qualified sense. If
the original plan submitted by the plaintiffs had been rejected

Oct. 1875.]

FIRST

UNITARIAN

Soc. v. FAuLxNm

ET AL.

421

at the time, there could have been no controversy. Except for
that qualified acceptance, there would have been no trouble;
but the difficulty now is to ascertain on what footing the parties
stood in relation to the plans and modifications of the same
presented by the business-partner of the plaintiffs. He supposes he was the architect of the church; which, perhaps, is not
strange, as the committee seem to have supposed that they had
a right, on certain conditions, to make him such.
Throughout the remarks, the theory of the judge appears to
have been that the plans were presented by the architects in
the beginning at their own risk and cost; and the main purpose
of this charge seems to have been to submit the question to the
jury, in view of the whole evidence, whether the condition that
they were to work at their own risk and cost, in case their
plans were ultimately rejected, ceased to operate against the
plaintiffs, in consequence of the acts of the committee and the
action of the society; or, in other words, whether or not it was
the understanding, in view of all that took place subsequent to
the qualified acceptance of the original plan presented by the
business-partner of the plaintiffs, that he was to go on at his
own expense, and risk his own labor and that of those who
were in his employment, if in point of fact the plans and the
modifications of the same which he presented should finally be
rejected by the society.
Those explanations prepare the way for an examination of that
part of the charge of the court which is the subject of the only
remaining exception to be considered in the case.
Mere verbal criticisms of the charge of the judge are not
entitled to any considerable weight in a court of errors. Such
courts look at the substance and legal effect of the language
employed, without much regard to mere inaccuracy of expression, unless the error is one which might prejudice the rights
of the party seeking redress.
Indirect allusion is made by the judge to the second condition in the vote of the committee adopting the plan of the
plaintiffs, that the cost of the church when completed should
not "exceed fifty-eight thousand dollars; " and he remarked, that
there must be a reasonable construction given to that language.
Contracts, said the judge, it is manifest, might have been let to

422

FIRST UNITARIAN

Soc. v.

FAuLKNER ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

parties apparently responsible at the time, for that price, and
yet the actual cost might have turned out to be much greater.
There are certain elements, continued the judge, always entering into matters of the kind, making it necessary that the
language should be reasonably construed, in reference to the
subject-matter and the circumstances; and, when so construed,
his opinion was, and he so stated to the jury, that it could not
be supposed that the meaning of the resolution was, that the
church should not cost, to a dollar, beyond that amount; that
the sum specified was intended as a reasonable limit, applying
to the language the ordinary rules which reasonable men would
apply to such a transaction.
In the course of the charge, he also adverted to the fact that
one of the building committee had given the language of the
condition a closer construction, and continued his remarks by
saying that he understood the condition to mean, that though
it was in the nature of a limit to the architect and to the committee, yet that the language must receive a reasonable construction; and that it should be regarded, not as an absolute
limit, but one as nearly exact and absolute as the subjectmatter and the nature and circumstances of the case would
admit.
Even if taken literally, it would be very difficult to point out
any legal error in those remarks; but the remarks are somewhat qualified by what follows in the succeeding sentence, in
which the judge proceeds to say to the effect, that the view
previously presented to the jury is in no respect material,
except so far as it may bear on the question, whether the
business-partner of the plaintiffs was all the time performing
service at his own expense, and with the understanding, that,
if his plans were ultimately rejected, he was to receive no compensation. Those remarks, it is obvious, had respect to the
theory of the defendants, that the plaintiffs' plans had never in
any way, or to any extent, been adopted either by the society
or the committee.
Quite a different theory was maintained by the plaintiffs;
and in respect to that the judge remarked, that, if the plans
had been accepted and the contract made at the price specified in the second condition of the vote of the committee, it

Oct. 1875.]

Ex

PARTn FRmc.

would scarcely be contended, if it turned out that the society
had to expend a sum greater than the prescribed limit, that
the plaintiffs would not be entitled to any thing for services
performed as architects. Suppose, said the judge, the contractor should become bankrupt, or fail: was the architect to
have nothing for his services, even if the church did cost more
than the contract price?
Two or three passages of the charge, it must be admitted,
are quite indefinite, and somewhat obscure; but they are not
more so than the exceptions of the defendants, which are addressed to nearly a page of the remarks of the judge, without
any attempt to specify any particular paragraph or passage as
the subject of complaint; nor does the assignment of errors
have much tendency to remove the ambiguity.
Instructions given by the court to the jury are entitled to a
reasonable interpretation; and they are not, as a general rule,
to be regarded as the subject of error on account of omissions
not pointed out by the excepting party. Castle v. Bullard,
28 How. 189.
Even now, though the complaining party has filed an assignment of errors and submitted a 'written argument, it is by no
means certain what the precise complaint is, unless it be that
the verdict, in their view, is for the wrong party. Courts of
error have nothing to do with the verdict of the jury, if it is
general and in due form, except to ascertain, if they can,
whether improper evidence was admitted to the jury, or
whether the jury were misdirected by the presiding judge.
No error of the kind is shown in the record; and
The judgment is affirmed.

Ex PA1tTE F ENcc.
Where the judgment in favor of the defendants upon a special finding by the
Circuit Court, embracing only part of the issues, was reversed here, and the
case remanded, "wNith instructions to proceed in conformity with the opinion,"
-Hdd, that the court below is precluded from adjudging in favor of the
defendants upon the facts set forth in that finding, but can in all other respects
proceed in such manner as, in its opinion, justice may require.

