THE "COLORADO."

[Sup. Ut.

Court of the State for the allowance of this writ, it is stated,
for the first time in the case, that the defendant, Mrs. Warfield,
claimed the privilege, right, and immunity of being relieved
and exempted from all liability on the note or obligation sued
on, under the laws of the United States requiring such instruments to be stamped to give them validity at the time the
instrument sued upon was executed; and the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State denied the claim.
The record sent here from the Supreme Court does not disclose any such claim. The petition for the allowance of the
writ in this court is not part of the record of the court below.
We act only upon that record; and that does not show that any
Federal question was either presented by the pleadings or upon
the trial in the District Court, or decided by the Supreme
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Court.

THE "COLORADO."
1. At night, during a dense fog, a collision occurred on Lake Huron between a
bark of 420 tons, bound down, and a propeller of 1,500 tons, bound up, the
lake. The wind was from the south. The bark, well manned and equipped,
having competent lookouts, properly stationed and vigilant in the performance of their duty, and with her foresail and light sails furled, was, at a
speed not exceeding four miles an hour, sailing by the wind, close-hauled
on her starboard tack, heading south-east by east, displaying the proper
lights, and, as required by law and the custom of the lakes, giving frequent
signals of two blasts from her fog-horn, which could be heard at the distance
of half a mile; which signify in that locality that she was on her starboard
tack, close-hauled. She held this course, until, a collision becoming inevitable, her helm was put to starboard. The propeller, with but one lookout
and an insufficient watch on deck, was heading north-north-west, and moving at the rate of five or six miles per hour. The officer in charge of the
propeller heard but one blast of the bark's fog-horn when the vessels were
near each other, and ported her helm; but then, hearing two blasts of a
second signal, ordered her helm hard a-starboard. Before this order had
much effect, she struck the bark, at an angle of about forty-five degrees,
on her starboard side, nearly opposite the mainmast, thereby causing the
total loss of that vessel and her cargo. Held, that the propeller was responsible for the disaster.
2. Where, in a collision between a propeller and a sailing vessel, the proofs show
that the latter kept her course, the presumption of fault on the part of the
propeller, arising in the absence of evidence tending to bring the case within

Oct. 1875.]

THE "COLORADO."

any of the exceptions in the nineteenth article of the sailing rules, can only
be overcome by showing that she took every reasonable precaution to meet
any emergency which might arise, and that she was not guilty of the want
of ordinary care, caution, or maritime skill.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
Mr. George B. Hibbardfor the appellant.
Hr. J. G. Abbott and Mr. Ashley -Pondfor the appellee.

M .. JusTIcE C=FoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
Lights and other signals are required by law, and sailing
rules are prescribed, to prevent collisions and to save life and
property at sea; and all experience shows that the observance
of such regulations and requirements is never more necessary
than in a dense fog, whether in the harbor or in the open ocean,
if the vessel is in the common pathway of commerce.
Mariners dread a fog much more than high winds or rough
seas. Nautical skill, if the ship is seaworthy, will usually enable the navigator to overcome the dangers of the wind and
waves; but the darkness of the night, if the fog is dense, brings
with it extreme danger, which the navigator knows may defy
every precaution within the power of the highest nautical skill.
Signal-lights in such an emergency are valuable; but they
may not be seen. Bells and fog-horns, if constantly rung or
blown, may be more effectual; but they may not be heard.
Slow speed is indispensable; but it will not entirely remove the
danger; nor will all these precautions, in every case, have that
effect. Perfect security, under such circumstances, is impossible.
Danger attends the vessel if she ceases to move, as other vessels astern may come up; and, even if she goes about and takes
the back track, she is still in danger from the vessels astern
which have not changed their course. Such a change of course
is not required by the sailing rules or by the usages of navigation. Instead of that, the best precautions are bright signallights, very slow speed, just sufficient to subject the vessel to
the command of her helm, competent lookouts properly sta
tioned and vigilant in the performance of their duties, constant
ringing of the bell or blowing of the fog-horn, as the case may

THE

"COLORADO."[

[Sup. Ct.

be, and sufficient force at the wheel to effect, if necessary, a
prompt change in the course of the vessel. Where all these
precautions are faithfully observed, such disasters rarely occur,
and the courts hear very little about inevitable accidents.
Injuries were received by the bark, as her owner alleges,
on the 11th of May, 1869, in a collision which took place on
Lake Huron between the bark and the propeller "Colorado,"
off Saginaw Bay, about half-past eleven o'clock at night, whereby
the bark was sunk in the lake, and with her cargo, consisting
of 45,000 bricks and 35,000 bushels of oats, became a total loss.
Compensation is claimed in the libel for the value of the vessel,
freight, and cargo.
By the record, it appears that the bark -a sail vessel of 425
tons- was bound down the lake on a voyage from Milwaukee
to Buffalo; and that the propeller,- a large steamer of 1,500
tons, - with a small cargo of general merchandise, was bound
up the lake on a voyage from Buffalo to Chicago.
Service was made, and the owners of the propeller appeared
and filed an answer. Testimony was taken; and, the parties
having been fully heard, the District Court entered an interlocutory decree in favor of the libellant, and referred the cause
to a master to ascertain the amount of the damages. Hearing
was had before the master, and he made a report. Exceptions
were taken to the report by the respondent, some of which were
sustained, and others were overruled; and the District Court
entered a final decree in favor of the libellant for the sum of
$33,675.26, with interest and costs, as set forth in the decree.
Immediate appeal was taken by the respondents to the Circuit
Court, where the decree of the District Court was in all things
affirmed; and the respondents appealed to this court.
Errors of fact are assigned by the owners of the propeller,
all of which deny that the propeller was in fault, which is the
principal question in the case. Fault is also imputed to the
bark; but the evidence to support the accusation is so slight,
that it will not demand any extended examination. Sufficient
appears to show that the night was dark, and that the fog was
quite dense at the time of the collision; that the wind at that
time was south; that the bark was sailing by the wind, closehauled, on her starboard tack, heading south-east by east; that

Oct. 1875.]

THE " COLORADO!'

she had pursued that course for some time, and continued to
pursue it without changing her helm, until the collision was
inevitable, when her helm was put to starboard; that she was
stanch and strong, and well manned and equipped; that she
showed the requisite signal-lights; that she had competent
lookouts properly stationed on the vessel, and that they were
vigilant in the performance of their duty; that she blew her
fog-horn as required by law and the custom on the lakes, and
that her speed was moderate. Two blasts were given by her
fog-horn; which signify in that locality that the approaching
vessel is on the starboard tack, close-hauled. Signals of two
blasts were given in order that approaching vessels might be
able to determine her course, and that she was on the starboard tack.
Prior to ten o'clock, the bark was making good speed; but,
when the fog became dense, the bark commenced to shorten
sail; and the evidence shows that all her light sails were taken
in half an hour before the collision. Her speed before the light
sails were furled did not exceed five or six knots an hour, and
subsequently did not exceed four miles, as appears by the
weight of the evidence.
Steamers must keep out of the way of sailing ships when the
two are proceeding in such directions as to involve risk of collision; and in such a case the rule is that the sailing ship shall
keep her course, so that the steamer may not be baffled or misled in the performance of the duty required of her to keep out
of the way. Special circumstances may exist in certain cases
rendering a departure from that rule necessary in order to avoid
immediate imminent danger; but there is no evidence in this
case making it necessary to consider any of the qualifications
to the general rule. The Warrior, Law Rep., 3 Ad. & Ece.
555.
Beyond all doubt, the evidence establishes the proposition
that, the bark did keep her course, as required by the eighteenth article of the sailing rules; and, it appeaiing that there
is no evidence tending to bring the case within any of the
qualifications contained in the nineteenth article of the same
rules, the priviafacie presumption is that the propeller was
in fault.

THE "COLORADO."

[Sup. Ot.

Three answers are given to that theory by the owner of the
propeller, either of which, if true, is conclusive that the decree
below is erroneous: (1.) That the bark was in fault. (2.) That
the propeller was not in fault. (3.) That the collision was the
result of inevitable accident.
1. Much discussion of the first proposition is unnecessary,
as it has already been shown that the signal-lights of the bark
were well displayed; that she had competent lookouts properly stationed, and that they were vigilant in the performance
of their duty. Due signals from her fog-horn were given as
frequently as required by law or the custom of the lakes,
and her speed was moderate; her foresail and all her light
sails having been furled or taken down at least a half-hour
before the disaster.
What more the bark ought to have done the owner of the
propeller does not state. Doubtless he knows that a sailing
vessel cannot absolutely stop without coming to anchor; and
there is no regulation or usage which requires a sailing vessel
"to lie to" or go about in stays, under such circumstances; nor
would it add any thing to the safety of life or property at sea
if such a precaution was adopted, as the vessel would still be
in the pathway of commerce, and be exposed to collision by
vessels approaching from any and every direction. All her
light sails had been taken in, as matter of precaution, to lessen
her speed, and to put the vessel more completely at the command of her helm. Both the master and second mate were on
deck; and the wheelsman was an able seaman of experience, and
the lookout was stationed on the top-gallant forecastle.
When the wind is high, it is frequently necessary to reef
some or all of the other sails; but it is not usual to do so in
the open sea, when the wind is moderate, or properly described
as merely a fresh breeze. Emergencies frequently arise, in rough
weather, when good seamanship requires that the sails, part or
all, should be furled; and it appears that part of the sails of
the bark were furled. Besides, it was the propeller that
struck the bark on her starboard side, nearly opposite the
mainmast; and the evidence shows that the propeller cut
nearly or quite ten feet into the side of the bark, having
struck the bark at an angle of about forty-five degrees.

Oct. 1875.]

THE "COLORADO."

Viewed in the light of all the circumstances, the court is of
the opinion that the proposition of the owner of the propeller,
that the bark was in fault, is not sustained.
2. Suppose that is so: still it is insisted by the owner of the
propeller that his vessel was not in fault; which is a proposition that will deserve more consideration. Attempt is made
in argument to establish the proposition that the bark ought
to havechanged her course, and kept out of the way of the
propeller; but it is a sufficient answer to that suggestion, that
the evidence does not disclose any special circumstances which
would have justified the bark in departing from the rule, that,
when the steamer is required to keep out of the way, the sailing ship shall keep her course. Due regard, it is true, must
be had in such a case to all dangers of navigation, and to any
special circumstances which may exist in any particular case,
rendering a departure from the rule necessary in order to avoid
immediate danger. Concede that, but still it is equally well
settled, that where no special circumstances are proved, show
ing that a departure from the rule was necessary to avoid immediate danger, the obligation on the part of the sailing vessel
is imperative to keep her course. The Sunnyside, supra, 205,
Croe/cet v. Newton, 18 How. 583; 1 Pars. Ship. & Ad. 580.
Still it is insisted by the respondent that the propeller was
not in fault; and, in order to determine that question satisfactorily, it will be necessary to refer again to the evidence.
Nor can the details of the evidence be entirely avoided, as
there is some conflict in the testimony of the witnesses.
All agree that the night, subsequent to eleven o'clock, was
foggy, and that the wind was south, blowing only a moderate
breeze; and the evidence shows that the mate of the propeller
had charge of her navigation. His watch consisted of the
wheelsman, one lookout (stationed forward on the promenadedeck), and one engineer, who had charge of the engine; that
the propeller was one of the largest on the lake, measuring
foutteen hundred and seventy tons; that she was heading northnorth-west at the time the fog settled down, and that her speed
was between nine and ten miles an hour. It appears from the
testimony of the mate that the fog became very dense, and
that he spoke to the master, who was in his room, lying on a

698

THE "COLORADO."

[Sup. Ct.

lounge, and that, pursuant to the master's suggestions, he directed the engineer to let the propeller go slow; and he testifies
that he took his position in front of the pilot-house, where he
continued to sound the whistle, every one or two minutes, up
to within a very short time of the collision. He is confirmed
by the master as to the directions given to the engineer; and
the master admits that he immediately returned to the lounge,
where he fell asleep, and that it was the jar of the collsion that
aroused him from the lounge.
Enough appears to show conclusively that there was but one
lookout, and no other seamen to assist the wheelsman in any
emergency which might arise; though the master, as well as
the mate, was fully apprised that the fog was unusually dense,
and both knew full well that the course of the propeller was in
the much-frequented pathway of commerce. Such a watch,
consisting only of the mate, one wheelsman, and one lookout
besides the engineer, could hardly be deemed sufficient for such
a large propeller, even in a clear night; and if not, it certainly
cannot be regarded as one equal to the emergencies likely to
arise in a dark night, when the fog was as dense as it was on
the night of the collision.
Ocean-steamers, as remarked by this court on a former occasion, usually have, in addition to the officer of the deck, two
lookouts, who are generally stationed, one on the port and
one on the starboard side of the vessel, as far forward as possible. During the time they are charged with that service,
they have no other duties to perform; and no reason is perceived why any less precaution should be taken by first-class
steamers on the lakes. Their speed is quite as great, and the
navigation is no less exposed to the dangers arising from the
prevalence of mist and fog, or from the ordinary darkness of
the night; and the owners of vessels navigating there are under
the same obligations to provide for the safety and security of
life and property as attaches to those who are engaged in navigating the sea. Cham&erlainv. Ward, 21 How. 571.
Required, as steamers are, to keep out of the way of sailing
vessels, the propeller is at least bound to show that she took
reasonable precaution to meet any emergency which might
arise from the darkness of the night, and that she was not

Oct. 1875.]

THE "COLORADO."

guilty of the want of any ordinary care, caution, or of maritime
skill. Those in charge of her navigation knew that she was in
waters frequented by other vessels, and that many other vessels
were in the vicinity at that time, as indicated by the fog-horns
heard from almost every direction.
Signal-lights were obscured by the density of the fog; but
the sound of the fog-horns could be heard, and the evidence
shows that the number blown ought to have admonished the
master before he went to sleep, as well as the mate, that the
surrounding and approaching dangers might make it necessary
to effect sudden changes in the course of the propeller.
Sudden dangers of collision might reasonably have been expected from the extreme darkness of the night and the known
vicinity of other vessels. Under such circumstances, it is
apparent that the watch on deck, considering the size of the
propeller and her speed, was not sufficient for the occasion.
Support to that view, if more is needed, is found in the fact, that
when the emergency came the mate deemed it necessary, when
he gave the second order to the wheelsman, to direct the lookout to leave the place where he was stationed, and go to the
wheel to help the wheelsman to put the same hard a-starboard,
leaving the propellor for the time being without any lookout.
Te George, 9 Jur. 670; The Jellona, 3 W. Rob. 13.
Lookouts are valueless unless they are properly stationed, and
vigilantly employed in the performance of their duty; and if
they are not, and in consequence of their neglect the approaching vessel is not seen in season to prevent a collision, the fault
is properly chargeable to the vessel, and will render her liable,
unless the other vessel was guilty of violating the rules of
navigation. Baker v. City of N. Y., 1 Cliff. 84; Whitridge v.
Dill, 23 How. 453; The Catharine,17 id. 177.
Evidence entirely satisfactory is exhibited in this case, showing that the fog-horn of the bark could be heard for half a
mile; and yet it is clear, both from the testimony of the lookout and the mate, that the fog-horn of the bark was not heard
until the two vessels were quite near together; and they both
testify that they heard only one blast of the horn in the first
instance. They agree in respect to the conversation between
them when they heard that blast of the horn; and the mate

THE " COLORADO."

[Sup. Ot.

states that he was standing in front of the pilot-house, but
the lookout testifies that they were forward on the promenade-deck. Probably the statement of the mate is correct: and
he also states that he and the lookout heard the blast of the
horn about the same time; that he immediately gave the order
to the man at the wheel to port, and went to the top of the
pilot-house and gave the signal to stop both engines; that he
gave the order to port just as he started, and went to the top
of the pilot-house as quick as he could; that he then heard
two blasts of the fog-horn from the bark; and that he immediately gave the order to the wheelsman to put the
wheel hard a-starboard, and ordered the lookout "to the wheel
to help put it over," and gave the signal for the engines to
back.
Steamers of such size, under such circumstances, ought never,
in a dark night, to be without a watch on deck sufficiently
effective to change the course of the vessel with celerity, without withdrawing the lookout from his station and appropriate
duties; nor is it good seamanship for the officer of the deck, if
without any assistant in the navigation of the vessel, to station
himself in a position where he cannot in such an emergency
give immediate signals to the engineer in charge. Even seconds are of great importance when the peril is impending and
the danger imminent, as the lives of all on board, and property to a large amount, may be sacrificed by a moment's
delay.
Owners of steamships are bound to afford such reasonable
protection to life and property as may be in their power in such
emergencies, and moments of extreme peril; and, in the judgment of the court, a watch consisting of one officer only and
one wheelsman and one lookout, in such a night and under such
circumstances, is not sufficient to afford the security to life and
property which the owners of such a steamer are bound to
afford. Where there is only one officer left on deck, and only
one man assigned to duty as a lookout, the watch on deck, including the officer, ought always, in a dark night, to be sufficient to navigate the vessel, even in an emergency, without
calling off the lookout to assist at the wheel; as such a steamer
in such a night should never, in the judgment of the court, be

Oct. 1875.]

THE "C OLORADO."

without at least one lookout to keep watch for approaching
vessels.
Forewarned as the master was of the impending danger, he
might, if he found it necessary that he should go to the lounge
for repose, have increased the watch on deck, or have oidered
the second mate or another seaman to the temporary assistance
of the lookout, especially as the lookout had been on duty four
or five hours when the mate informed the master of the density
of the fog. All the master did was to direct the mate to
tell the engineer to "let her go slow," and then he went to
sleep. Doubtless the order was given to the engineer, and it
appears that he slackened the speed of the steamer. Before
that, her speed had been between nine and ten miles an hour.
Considerable change undoubtedly was made under the order
communicated to the engineer by the mate. The engineer
testifies that her speed after that did not exceed four miles
an hour; but other witnesses entitled to credit testify that the
steamer still made five or six miles an hour. Judging from
the effect of the blow when the propeller struck the bark on
her starboard side, it is scarcely possible to believe that the
estimate of the engineer is correct.
Steamships have great power, and in many instances are capable of great speed, and consequently are always required to
observe a great degree of caution, particularly in a dark night.
When the night is dark, they are required to be watchful, both
as to their speed and course. In regard to the former, it is a
question of fact, in each particular case, whether the speed
was excessive or not; and, in determining that question, the
locality, the hour, the state of the weather, and all the circumstances of the occasion, are to be fully considered. The Europa,
2 Eng. Law & Eq. 564; 1 Pars. on Ship. & Ad. 575; Newton
v. Stebbens, 10 How. 606; The BRose, 2 W. Rob. 3; The Steamer
Charles, 19 How. 111.
Vessels propelled by steam, if navigating in thoroughfares of
commerce, are always required, whenever the darkness is such
that it is impossible or difficult to see approaching vessels, to
slacken their speed, or even to stop and back, according to circunistances; and this court intimated that the principle of that
reouirement might be applied in a qualified sense to sailing

THE "COLORADO."

[Sup. Or.

vessels, in crowded thoroughfares, when the darkness was so
intense that vessels ahead could not be seen, if it appeared that
the sailing vessel was proceeding with a strong breeze under a
full press of canvas and with all her studding-sails set. The
forning Light, 2 Wall. 558.
Subject to the qualifications there stated, no doubt is entertained that those suggestions are correct; but they are not applicable to the case before the court, for two reasons: (1.)
Because the general rule is, that sailing vessels may proceed on
their voyage in the open sea, although it is dark, observing all the
rules of navigation, with such additional care and precaution
as experienced and prudent navigators usually employ under
similar circumstances. (2.) Because the bark did shorten sail,
and adopt every necessary precaution. Sailing ships should
never, in a dark, foggy night, hazard an extraordinarypress of
sail; and, in case of unusual darkness, it may be reasonable to
require them, when navigating in a narrowpathway, where they
are liable to meet other vessels, to shorten sail, if wind and
weather will permit. The Morning Light, supra.
Requirements of the kind are intended as precautions; but
the more important rule is, that steamships shall keep out of the
way of sailing vessels; and the sixteenth article of the sailing
rules provides, that when steamships are approaching another
ship, so as to involve risk of collision, they shall slacken their
speed, or, if necessary, stop and reverse; and the express provision is that every steamship shall, when in a fog, go at a
moderate speed.
Great difficulty would attend any effort to define, with
mathematical precision, what is a moderate speed in any particular case, further than to say that the speed ought not to
be so great that the steamer cannot perform the duty imposed
upon her by the act of Congress, - "to keep out of the way of
the sailing vessel," if the latter has in all respects complied
with the rules of navigation. Different formulas have been
suggested by different judges as criterions for determining whether the speed of a steamer in any given case was or was not
greater than was consistent with the duty which the steamer
owed to other vessels navigating the same waters; but perhaps
no one yet suggested is more useful, or better suited to enable

Oct. 1875.]

THE " COLORADO."

the inquirer to reach a correct conclusion, than the one adopted
by the Privy Council. The Batavier,40 Eng. L. & Eq. 25.
In that case the court say, "At whatever rate she (the
steamer) was going, if going at such a rate as made it dangerous to any craft which she ought to have seen, and might
have seen, she had no right to go at that rate." Apply even a
less strict rule to the case before the court, and it is clear that
the propeller, in view of the insufficiency of the watch on deck
for such a steamer in such a night, and the extreme darkness,
was guilty of negligence in not slacking down her speed to a
slower rate.
Beyond all question, it was her duty to have seen and heard
the bark in season to have complied with the requirement to
keep out of the way of the bark; and it appears that she might
have done so, if those responsible for the navigation of the propeller had not been guilty of negligence. Two blasts of the
fog-horn were blown by the bark; but the mate and lookout
did not, in the first instance, hear but one, when the mate gave
the order to port, which proved to be a wrong order. Presently
both the mate and the lookout heard two blasts; and then the
mate gave the order, "Hard a-starboard !" and sent the lookout
to assist in carrying the order into effect; but the collision occurred before the last order had much effect.
Examined in the light of these facts, which are fully proved,
it is obvious that neither of the orders was given in season to
be of any substantial avail, and that the propeller is responsible
for the disaster.
8. Other defences failing, it is next insisted by the owner of
the propeller that the collision was the result of inevitable accident; but, having decided that the propeller was in fault, the
discussion of that proposition is unnecessary, as such a defence
can never be maintained, unless it appears that'both parties
were without fault.
Exceptions were taken in the District Court to the report of
the master; and it is insisted, in behalf of the propeller, that
error was committed in confirming that report. Some of the
exceptions were sustained, and others overruled; and, in the
judgment of the court, the report as confirmed is correct.
-Decree affirmed.

