Oct. 1875.]

TWiN-LICK OIL CO. v.

Twn-LicK Om ComPAN

MARBURY.

v. MARBUIY.

i. A director of a corporation is not prohibited from lending it moneys when
they are needed for its benefit, and the transaction is open, and otherwise
free from blarm6; nor is his subsequent purchase of its property at a fair
public sale by a trustee, under a deed of trust executed to secure the pay
ment of them, invalid.
2. The right of a corporation to avoid the sale of its property by reason of the
fiduciary relations of the purchaser must be exercised within a reasonable
time after the facts connected therewith are made known, or can by due
diligence be ascertained. As the courts have never prescribed any specific
period as applicable to every case like the statute of limitations, the determination as to what constitutes a reasonable time in any particular case
must be arrived at by a consideration of all its elements which affect that
question.
3. The property in controversy in the present suit had been appropriated and
used for the production of mineral oil from wells, - a species of property
which is, more than any other, subject to rapid, frequent, and extreme fluctuations in value. The director who bought it committed no actual fraud,
and the corporators knew at the time of his purchase all the facts upon
which their right to avoid it depended. They refused to join him in it, or
to pay assessments then made on their stock; and it was nearly four years
thereafter when the hazard was over, and his skill, energy, and money had
made his investment profitable, that any claim to, or assertion of right in,
the property was made by the corporation or the stockholders. Held, that
the court below properly dismissed the bill of complaint of the corporation,
praying that the purchaser should be decreed to hold as its trustee, and to
account for the profits during the time he had the property.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Co-

lumbia.
Mr. J. Z). McPherson and 111r. Charles Beasten, Jr., for the
appellants.
lr. Walter S. Cox and lMr. W. -D. Dalvidge for the appellee.
Mrt. JusTIC,
iL uR delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant here, complainant below, was a corporation
organized under the laws of West Virginia, engaged in the
business of raising and selling petroleum. It became very
much embarrassed in the early part of 1867, and borrowed
from the defendant the sum of $2,000, for which a note was
given, secured by a deed of trust, conveying all the property,
rights, and franchises of the corporation to William Thomas, to
secure the payment of said note, with the usual power of sale
in default of payment. The property was sold under the deed

TwIN-LICK OIL Co. V. MARBURY.

[Sup. Ot.

of trust; was bought in by defendant's agent for his benefit,
and conveyed to him in the summer of the same year. The
defendant was, at the time of these trantactions, a stockholder
and director in the company; and the bill in this case was filed
in April; 1871, four years after, to have a decree that defendant
holds as trustee for complainant, and for an accounting as to
the time he had control of the property. It charges that defendant has abused his trust relation to the company, to take
advantage of its difficulties, and buy in at a sacrifice its valuable property and franchises; that, concealing his knowledge
that the lease of the ground on which the company operated
included a well, working profitably, and by promises to individual shareholders that he would purchase in the property for the
joint benefit of the whole, be obtained an unjust advantage,
and in other ways violated his duty as an officer charged with
a fiduciary relation to the company. As to all this, which is
denied in the answer, and as to which much testimony is taken,
it is sufficient to say that we are satisfied that the defendant
loaned the money to the corporation in good faith, and honestly
to assist it in its business in an hour of extreme embarrassment,
and took just such security as any other man would have taken;
that when his money became due, and there was no apparent
probability of the company paying it at any time, the property
was sold by the trustee, and bought in by defendant at a fair and
open sale, and at a reasonable price; that, in short, there was
neither actual fraud nor oppression; no advantage was taken
of defendant's position as director, or of any matter known to
him at the time of the sale, affecting the value of the property,
which was not as well known to others interested as it was to
himself ; and that the sale and purchase was the only mode left
to defendant to make his money.
The first question which arises in this state of the facts is,
whether defendant's purchase was absolutely void.
That a director of a joint-stock corporation occupies one of
those fiduciary relations where his dealings with the subjectmatter of his trust or agency, and with the beneficiary or party
whose interest is confided to his care, is viewed with jealousy
by the courts, and may be set aside on slight grounds, is a doctrine founded on the soundest morality, and which has received

Oct. 1875.]

TwIm-LiK Om Co. v. MARBURY.

the clearest recognition in this court and in others. Koehler v.
Blaec River Palls Iron Co., 2 Black, 715; -Drury v. Cross,
7 Wall. 299; Luxemburg B.R. Co. v. Haquay, 25 Beav. 586;
The Cumberland Co. v. Sherman, 30 Barb. 553; 16 Md. 456.
The general doctrine, however, in regard to contracts of this
class, is, not that they are absolutely void, but that they are
voidable at the election of the party whose interest has been
so represented by the party claiming under it. We say, this is
the general rule: for there may be cases where such contracts
would be void ab initlo; as when an agent to sell buys of him
self, and by his power of attorney conveys to himself that
which he was authorized to sell. But, even here, acts which
amount to a ratification by the principal may validate the sale.
The present case is not one of that class. While it is true
that the defendant, as a director of the corporation, was bound
by all those rules of conscientious fairness which courts of
equity have imposed as the guides for dealing in such cases, it
cannot be maintained that any rule forbids one director among
several from loaning money to the corporation when the money
is needed, and the transaction is open, and otherwise free from
blame. No adjudged case has gone so far as this. Such a
doctrine, while it would afford little protection to the corpo
ration against actual fraud or oppression, would deprive it of
the aid of those most interested in giving aid judiciously, and
best qualified to judge of the necessity of that aid, and of the
extent to which it may safely be given.
There are in such a transaction three distinct parties whose
interest is affected by it; namely, the lender, the corporation,
and the stockholders of the corporation.
The directors are the officers or agents of the corporation,
and represent the interests of that abstract legal entity, and of
those who own the shares of its stock. One of the objects of
creating a corporation by law is to enable it to make contracts;
and these contracts may be made with its stockholders as well
as with others. In some classes of corporations, as in mutual
insurance companies, the main object of the act of incorporation is to enable the company to make contracts with its stockholders, or with persons who become stockholders by the very
act of making the contract of insurance. It is very true, that as

TWIN-LICK OM Co. v. MARBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

a stockholder, in making a contract of any kind with the corporation of which he is a member, is in some sense dealing with
a creature of which he is a part, and holds a common interest
with the other stockholders, who, with him, constitute the whole
of that artificial entity, he is properly held to a larger measure
of candor and good faith than if he were not a stockholder. So,
when the lender is a director, charged, with others, with the
control and management of the affairs of the corporation, representing in this regard the aggregated interest of all the stockholders, his obligation, if he becomes a party to a contract with
the company, to candor and fair dealing, is increased in the
precise degree that his representative character has given him
power and control derived from the confidence reposed in him
by the stockholders who appointed him their agent. If he
should be a sole director, or one of a smaller number vested
with certain powers, this obligation would be still stronger, and
his acts subject to more severe scrutiny, and their validity
determined by more rigid principles of morality, and freedom
from motives of selfishness. All this falls far short, however,
of holding that no such contract can be made which will be
valid; and we entertain no doubt that the defendant in this
case could make a loan of money to the company; and as we
have already said that the evidence shows it to have been an
honest transaction for the benefit of the corporation and its
shareholders, both in the rate of interest and in the security
taken, we think it was valid originally, whether liable to be
avoided afterwards by the company or not.
If it be conceded that the contract by which the defendant
became the creditor of the company was valid, we see no principle on which the subsequent purchase under the deed of trust
is not equally so. The defendant was not here both seller and
buyer. A trustee was interposed who made the sale, and who
had the usual powers necessary to see that the sale was fairly
conducted, and who in this respect was the trustee of the corporation, and must be supposed to have been selected by it for
the exercise of this power. Defendant was at liberty to bid,
subject to those rules of fairness which we have already conceded to belong to his peculiar position; for, if he could not
bid, he would have been deprived of the only means which his

Oct. 1875.]

Twm-Licx Om Co. v. MARBURy.

contract gave him of making his debt out of the security on
which he had loaned his money. We think the sale was a fair
one. The company was hopelessly involved beside the debt to
defendant. The well was exhausted, to all appearance. The
machinery was of little use for any other purpose, and would
not pay transportation. Most of the stockholders who now
promote this suit refused to pay assessments on their shares
to aid the company. Nothing was left to the defendant
but to buy it in, as no one would bid the amount of his
debt.
The next question to be decided is, whether, under the circumstances of this case, the complainant had a right to avoid
this sale at the time this suit was brought.
The bill alleges, that, both prior to the sale and since, the
defendant made various declarations to other stockholders to
the effect that he only designed to purchase the propdrty for
the benefit of all or a part of the stockholders; and there is
some testimony to show, that, after the sale, he did propose, that,
if his debt was paid by the company or the shareholders, he
would relinquish his purchase.
But we need not decide whether any of these declarations
raised a legal obligation to do so or not; nor whether, without
such declarations, the sale and deed were voidable at the election
of the complainant, - a proposition which is entitled to more
consideration, resting solely on the fiduciary relations of the
defendant to the plaintiffs, than on the evidence in this case of
the declarations alluded to.
We need not decide either of these propositions, becaitse
plaintiff comes too late with the offer to avoid the sale.
The doctrine is well settled, that the option to avoid such a
sale must be exercised within a reasonable time. This has
never been held to be any determined number of days or years
as applied to every case, like the statute of limitations, but
must be decided in each case upon all the elements of it which
affect that question. These are generally the presence or absence of the parties at the place of the transaction, their knowledge or ignorance of the sale and of the facts which render it
voidable, the permanent or fluctuating character of the subject.
matter of the transaction as affecting its value, and the actual

TwIN-LICK OIL Co. v. MARBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

rise or fall of the property in value during the period within
which this option might have been exercised.
In fixing this period in any particular case, we are but little
aided by the analogies of the statutes of limitation; while,
though not falling exactly within the rule as to time for rescinding, or offering to rescind, a contract by one of the parties to it
for actual fraud, the analogies are so strong as to give to this
latter great force in the consideration of the case. In this
class of cases the party is bound to act with reasonable diligence as soon as the fraud is discovered, or his right to rescind
is gone. No delay for the purpose of enabling the defrauded
party to speculate upon the chances which the future may give
him of deciding profitably to himself whether lie will abide by
his bargain, or rescind it, is allowed in a court of equity.
In the recent case of Upton, Assignee v. Tribileock, supra,
p. 45, it was held that the purchaser of stock in an insurance
company, who had offered to rescind within two or three
months because his note had been sent to a bank for collection
in fraud of the agreement to the contrary, could not avail himself of that offer to let in as defence other fraudulent representations then unknown to him, when he was sued by the assignee
in bankruptcy for the unpaid instalments on that stock after
the bankruptcy of the company.
The authorities to the point of the necessity of the exercise
of the right of rescinding or avoiding a contract or transaction
as soon as it may be reasonably done, after the party with whom
that right is optional is aware of the facts which give him that
option, are numerous and well collected in the brief of appellees'
counsel. The more important are as follows: Badger v. Badger,
2 Wall. 87; Iarwood v. B.R. Co., 17 id. 78; larshi v. Wtitman, 21 id. 178; Vigers v. Pike, 8 Cl. & Fin. 650; TVentworth v.
Lloyd, 32 Beav. 467; Follansbee v. .Kilbreth, 17 Ill. 522.
The cases of Bliss v. Edmonson, 8 DeG. M. & G. 787, Prendergast v. Turton, 1 You. & Coll., while asserting the same genera] doctrine, have an especial bearing on this case, because they
relate to mining property.
The fluctuating character and value of this class of property
is remarkably illustrated in the history of the production of
mineral oil from wells. Property worth thousands to-day is

Oct. 1875.]

TWIN-LIcK OIL Co.

V. MARBURY.

worth nothing to-morrow; and that which would to-day sell for a
thousand dollars as its fair value, may, by the natural changes
of a week or the energy and courage of desperate Pnterprise, in
the same time be made to yield that much every day. The
injustice, therefore, is obvious, of permitting one holding the
right to assert an ownership in such property to voluntarily
await the event, and then decide, when the danger which is
over has been at the risk of another, to come in and share the
profit.
While a much longer time might be allowed to assert this
right in regard to real estate whose value is fixed, on which no
outlay is made for improvement, and but little change in value,
the class of property here considered, subject to the most rapid,
frequent, and violent fluctuations in value of any thing known
as property, requires prompt action in all who hold an option,
whether they will share its risks, or stand clear of them.
The case before us illustrates these principles very forcibly.
The officers, and probably all the stockholders, who were not
numerous, knew of the sale as soon as made. As there was no
actual fraud, they knew all the facts on which their right to
avoid the contract depended. They not only refused to join
the defendant in the purchase when that privilege was tendered
them, but they generally refused to pay assessments on their
shares already made, which might have paid this debt.
The defendant then had a survey made of the ground leased
to the corporation, the lease being the main thing he had
acquired by the sale. When the lines were extended, the lease
was found to embrace a well, then profitably worked by another
company. Of this piece of good luck he availed himself, and by
suit and compromise he obtained possession of that well. He
put more of his money into it, and changed what had been a
disastrous speculation by the company into a profitable business. With full knowledge of all these facts, the appellant took
no action until this suit was brought, nearly four years after the
sale; and not until all the hazard was over, and the defendant's
skill, energy, and money had made his purchase profitable, was
any claim or assertion of right in the property made by the
corporation or by the stockholders.
principle
We think, both on authority and principle, -a
VOL. I.

38

BOLLING v. LERSNER.

[Sup. Ot.

necessary to protect those who invest their capital and their labor
in enterprises useful but hazardous, - that we should hold that
plaintiff has delayed too long.
.Decree affirmed.

BOLLING v. LERSNER.
This court has no jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment or decree of a State
court, unless it appears from the record that a Federal question presented to
that court was in fact decided, or that the decision was necessarily involved
in the judgment or decree as rendered.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
Motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. 111r. James V.
Brook and Mr. John R. Tucker in support of the motion.
111r. Conway Robinson, contra.
MI.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Circuit Court of Fauquier County, Va., rendered a decree in this cause Sept. 13, 1867. From this decree Lersner
prayed an appeal to the District Court of Appeals, May 17,
1869. This was allowed by W. Willoughby, judge. Upon this
allowance the appeal was docketed in the Appellate Court, and
the parties appeared without objection or protest, and were
heard. Upon the hearing, the decree of the Circuit Court was
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to proceed
as directed. When the case came to the Circuit Court upon
the mandate of the Appellate Court, Bolling appeared, and objected to the entry of the decree which had been ordered, for
the reason, among others, that Willoughby, the judge who
allowed the appeal, had been appointed to his office by the
commanding-general exercising military authority in Virginia
under the reconstruction acts of Congress, and that those acts
were unconstitutional and void. This objection was overruled,
and a decree entered according to the mandate. From this
decree Bolling took an appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals,
where the action of the Circuit Court was affirmed. To reverse

