Oct. 1875.]

W. U. TEL. Co. v. W. & ATL. R.R. Co.

283

with respect to the law of Alabama then under consideration,
that there was no attempt to discriminate injuriously against
the products of other States or the rights of their citizens,
and the case was not, therefore, an attempt to fetter commerce
among the States, or to deprive the citizens of other States of
any privilege or immunity, said, "But a law having such operation would, in our opinion, be an infringement of the provisions
of the Constitution which relate to those subjects, and therefoie
void."
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri
must be reversed,and the cause remanded, with directions to
enter a judgment reversing the judgment of the Circuit
Court, and directing that court to discharge-the defendant
from imprisonment, and suffer him to depart without day.

WESTERx U"IOx TELEGRAPH CoPAxY v. WESTERN AND

ATLANTic RAnaoAD CoMiPAIY.
1. An agreement between a telegraph company and the State of Georgia, sole
owner of a railroad, which provides that the company shall put up and set
apart on its poles along said railroad a telegraph wire for the exclusive use
of the railroad, equip it with as many instruments, batteries, and other
necessary fixtures, as may be required for use in the railroad stations, run
the wire into all the offices along the line of road, and put the same in complete working order, fixes the terms upon which officers of the road may
transmit and receive messages through the connecting lines of the company,
recognizes the right of way of the company along the line of road, regu
lates the use of the wire, and the compensation for it, and binds the State
to pay the cost of constructing the wire, and equipping the same at railroad
stations not already supplied with instruments, batteries, and other neces
sary fixtures, does not constitute a sale of such wire, batteries, and other
instruments to the State, but is merely a contract for her exclusive use
thereof.
2. As the ownership of such wire and instruments is in the telegraph company,
a lease of the railroad by the State confers upon her lessees only such rights
as she acquired under her contract with the company.

AarPEA_ from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Georgia.
The State of Georgia, sole owner of the Western and Atlantic Railroad, desiring the use of a telegraph for the purposes of

284

W. U. TEL. 00. V. W. & ATL. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

the road along its line, an instrument of writing providing
therefor, bearing date Aug. 18, 1870, signed by William Orton,
president, on behalf of the Western Union Telegraph Company, and by Foster Blodgett, superintendent of the railroad,
was approved by Rufus B. Bullock, governor, and countersigned
by H. C. Carsen, secretary of the executive department.
The substance of this agreement was, that the company
should put up and set apart on its poles already there, along said
railroad, a telegraph line for the exclusive use of the railroad;
equip it with as many instruments, batteries, and other necessary fixtures, as might be required for use in the railroad stations;
run the wire into all the offices along the line of the road, and
put the same in complete working order. Other provisions related to the terms on which the officers of the road might transmit and receive messages through the connecting lines of the
company; to the right of way of the company along the line
of the road; and to other matters regulating the use of the wire,
and compensation for it. The sixth article bound the State to
pay, as soon as it could be ascertained, the cost of constructing
the wire, and of equipping it at railroad stations not already supplied with instruments, batteries, and other necessary fixtures.
Shortly after the wires were set up, and the instruments put in
working order, the governor of the State, under authority of an
act of the legislature, granted, conveyed, and leased "the Western and Atlantic Railroad, which is the property of the State
of Georgia, together with all its houses, workshops, d6p6ts, rolling-stock, and appurtenances of every character, for the full
term of twenty years," to certain persons who became a body
corporate by the name of "The Western and Atlantic Railroad
Company."
The railroad company took possession of the road and its
appurtenances under the lease, including the wire and batteries
and instruments put on the road and in its offices by the telegraph company under the contract with the State; but, having
this possession, refused to pay for the transmission of messages
over connecting lines according to the terms of the contract,
and claimed that it was not bound thereby, and that, in fact,
the true construction of that agreement being that the State
had bought and paid for the wire and instruments, and owned

Oct. 1875.]

W. U. TE. Co. v. W. & A.T.

R.R. Co.

285

them, it, as lessee of the State, had the ight to control and
use them without any liability to the telegraph company.
The telegraph company, in its bill of complaint, states the
refusal of the railroad company to recognize its ights in any
respect, while insisting on using the wire and apparatus, and
withholding from the complainant any use of them in the offices and d6pdts of the road; alleges that these considerations
induced the complainant to treat as revoked and withdrawn
all power and privilege on the part of the defendant to use said
wire and apparatus, or to receive compensation therefor; and
that the complainant, seeking to recover possession of them,
had been hindered and obstructed by the defendant in so doing.
The bill prays that the defendant be enjoined from using said
wire, from hindering or obstructing the complainant in the use
of it, or in severing it from all the offices of the defendant,
and for such other and further relief as the nature of the case
requires.
The railroad company, in its answer, denies that the contract
between the telegraph company and the State is valid, being
without authority of law; asserts that, if valid, it, as lessee of
the railroad, is not bound by the terms thereof ; and that, by
the true construction of that contract, the State became the
purchaser and owner of the wire and instruments, and that the
company succeeded to this ownership without being bound by
the other terms of the agreement.
The railroad company also filed a cross-bill, setting up this
view of its rights, and praying an injunction against the telegraph company to restrain it from interfering with the use of
the wire and apparatus so acquired from the State.
The District Court dismissed this cross-bill on demurrer,
and on hearing the original bill of the complainant, the answer
and evidence, decreed that the wire and instruments in question
are the property of the State of Georgia, and are included in
the lease to the railroad company; and that this company is not
bound by the terms of the contract in other respects, unless
adopted by it; and, therefore, dismissed the bill.
31r. J.. Hubley Ashton for the appellant.
The agreement between the State and the Western Union
Telegraph Company neither constituted nor contemplated a

286

W. U. TEL.Co. v. W. & ATL. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

sale of the wire, but merely the right of the State to use it
and its equipments for the purposes mentioned in such agreement, subject to all the terms, conditions, and obligations therein
expressed. The scheme and objects of the contract, as clearly
set forth in the recital, were "to provide necessary telegraph
facilities" for the State, as proprietor and manager of the railroad; to settle the terms upon which the telegraph company
should occupy the railroad "with the line or lines of telegraph
wires belonging to" that company; and to define the business
relations between it and the State.
No particular covenant of the State was intended to be the
special consideration for any one covenant on the part of the
company; but the consideration on each side was an entirety.
As part of this entirety of consideration for all that was
stipulated to be done by the telegraph company for the benefit
of the State, the latter agreed to pay, as soon as it could be
ascertained, the cost of constructing and equipping the wire;
not the value of the property as upon a sale to a purchaser, but
its bare cost to the company.
Consequently, it was not a contract of "bargain and sale,"
by which the title to the wire and its equipments was transferred to the State.
It is indisputable that the instrument contains no expressed agreement on the part of the telegraph company to
sell, or on the part of the State to pure1tase, any telegraph wire
at any price: on the contrary, the company agreed to "set
apart" on its line of poles a telegraph wire for the exclusive
use of the State in the transmission of legitimate railroad messages - that is, messages on the business of such railroad - on
and along the line of the road.
It is clear that the title to the property in question did not
pass to the State under the contract; and she, therefore, had
no power to lease it to the railroad company.
The transaction between the railroad company and the State,
according to the version of it given in the answer of the former,
purports to have been an assignment and lease of the general
and absolute property in the wire and equipments for the term
of twenty-one years, and not an assignment or lease of the
contract or the State's restricted right of user; and, if this was

Oct. 1875.]

W. U. TEL. Co. v. W. & ATL. R.R. Co.

287

the transaction, there can be no doubt, upon well-settled principles of law, that it was absolutely tortious, and that the use
of the property by the railroad company has been from the
beginning a continuing trespass as against the Western Union
Telegraph Company.
The act of the legislature of Georgia authorized the governor
of the State to lease the Western and Atlantic Railroad, together
"with all its houses, workshops, d~p~ts, rolling-stock, and appurtenanees of every character," for the term of twenty-one years.
Georgia Acts 1870, p. 55.
The lease executed in compliance with that act does not in
terms purport to pass or transfer the contract of the State with
the Western Union Telegraph Company. The claim of the
railroad company is, that the intention was to pass the title of the
property in reference to which the contract was made, as a piece
of property owned by the State, and appurtenant to the road.
If it be conceded that the right or interest in the State, under
the contract of 1870, amounted to a special property in the wire
and equipments (as it did not, for there can be no special property without possession, which the railroad had not) which
might have been assigned or leased by the State, nevertheless
the State had no right to sell or lease the property of the telegraph company; and, if it had a special property in the wire,
it thereby determined the contract with that company, and
parted with its limited interest, and its lessee rendered itself
liable to be dealt with as a trespasser by receiving and using
the property under such a transaction. I Chit. on Cont. 534;
Story on Bail., sect. 322; ifeCombie v. -Davis, 6 East, 540;
Loesc7iman v. Maciin, 2 Stark. N. P. C. 311; Cooper v. IJllomatt, 1 Com. Bench, 683; Bryant v. Wardell, 2 Exch. 482;
Fenn v. Bittleston, 7 id. 157; Farrant v. Thompson, 5 B. &
Ald. 529; -Emersonv. Fis7, 6 Greenl. 206; Crolcer v. Gullifer,
44 Me. 491; Hyde v. Noble, 18 N. H. 499; Stanley v. Gaylord,
1 Cush. 542-551; Galvin v. Bacon, 2 Fairf. 30; Austin v.
.Dey, 46 N. Y. 502; Ballard v. Burgett, 40 id. 814; Sanborn
v. Colman, 6 N. H. 15; Story on Bail., sect. 896.
But, if the lease of the railroad and its appurtenances is to
be deemed a demise or assignment of the contract between the
State and the telegraph company and the right of user exercisi-

288

W. U. TEL. Co. v. W. & ATL. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

ble by the former under that contract, it is equally clear, upon
the averments in the answer, that the railroad company is not
in the lawful control or use of the property, as it has announced
its determination not to be bound by such contract. Penn.
R.R. Co. v. Sly, 65 Penn. 209; AtJIillan v. M11.S. 4 N. JT
?.-R. Co., 16 Mich. 102; Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 464;
L. & S. TV P.R. Co. v. S. B. -Railway Co., 8 Exch. 604;
Fouldes v. Willoughby, 8 Mees. & Wels. 549; Story on Bail.,
sect. 89; Clark v. Gilbert, 2 Bing. N. C. 343.
Mlr. Benjamin H. Hill for the appellee.
The property in dispute is not owned by the Western Union
Telegraph Company, but by the State of Georgia. It was purchased by the State, and paid for after the lease to the appellee.
It stood upon the poles on the land of the State. She therefore
had the exclusive dominion over and the use of it.
When the exclusive use of a thing is granted, the thing itself
is by such terms conveyed.
"If the grant be of the uses of and dominion over land, it
carries the land itself." 3 Wash. Real Prop. (ed. 1868), p. 333,
* 622; Coke, Litt. lib. 1, cap. 1, of Fee-Simple; Caldivell v. Fulton, 31 Penn. 484.
The State was then operating the road, and the wire was
set apart for her exclusive use; and there can be no escape
from the conclusion that it was the property of the State. If
this is not the proper construction, then there was no mutuality
in the contract, and it was void.
If the contract has all the force it ever had against the State,
then it is insisted that the telegraph company cannot sustain
this action, because the railroad company is not bound for the
contracts or torts of the State of Georgia prior to the date of
the lease, unless it becomes so by contract.
Sect. 4 of the Lease Act (Acts of Georgia, 1870, p. 425)
expressly provides that the railroad company "shall be liable
for its contracts made after the execution of the lease, and for
any cause of action to which it may become liable after said
lease is executed.
It is clear, from all the sections of the act of 1870, that the
State did not intend that her lessees should assume her obligations; and, in contracting to lease the road, they did not assume
them.

Oct. 1875.]

W. U. TEL. Co, v. W. & ATL. R.R. Co.

2$9

It is also clear that the appellee is not in any way bound to
the appellant by express contract, because it made none, and
refused to be bound by that with the State. If the contract
between the telegraph company and the State is a covenant at
all, it is a personal covenant, and binding only on the makers
thereof. Taylor v. Owen, 2 Blackf. 801.
MR. JuSiCE.

AftLwn,

after stating the case as above, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
We differ with the District Court as to the construction of
the instrument. We do not think that the State simply bought
a wire and batteries and other instruments, and became absolute
owners of them. on the contrary, we think that the contract
was for the use of a wire and instruments of the telegraph
company.
The language of the first covenant of the telegraph company
is, that it agrees "to set apart on its line of poles along said
railroad a telegraph wire for the exclusive use of said party of
the second part." The further covenants are all consistent
with this. The contract for the use of this wire in connection
with the others, and for the use of one of the wires already
there when this shall be disabled, the fact that it is placed
upon the poles of the company already in use for two other
wires, the agreements regulating the offices, and, in short, the
whole frame of the contract, show that the wire, the poles, the
instruments, were the property of the telegraph company, with
exclusive use of this wire transferred to the railroad.
This view is perfectly consistent with the idea that the State
should pay the cost and expense of the additional wire and
instruments rendered necessary by this agreement for its exclusive use, which does not prove that any thing more than this
right to exclusive use passed to the State.
If this be true, the railroad company, taking possession of this
wire and instrument under claim of right from the State, must
use it on the terms which bound the State, or not use it at all.
The ownership being in the telegraph company, the road
could only have such use of it, lawfully, as it acquired from the
State; and the right of the State to the use of it is governed
by the terms of the agreement.
VOL. 1.

9

290

W. U. TEL. Co. v. W. & Am. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

It is said that the contract between the State and the tele.
graph company is void, because the superintendent and the
governor had no power to make it, and because it is oppressive and extortionate.
We do not decide whether this be so or not. Whenever the
railroad company or the State shall cease to use the wire, shall
abandon the contract and leave the instruments severely alone,
and the complainant shall then seek to compel compliance
with the contract, it will be time to decide that question; but
so long as this company, by the use of the wire and the apparatus, gets the benefit of the contract, it must also abide by the
terms in other respects.
We are embarrassed in this view of the subject by the unskilful character of the bill. The relief it seeks is the very
last one would think of; namely, to enjoin the railroad company from the use of a wire and battery and instruments running along their line, and fixtures in their offices and d6p~ts,
where they may remain until it be the pleasure of the complainant to take them away. The right to compensation for what the
complainant has suffered by the failure of defendant, while
using the wire, to comply with the covenants of the State, can
be understood, and the right of defendant, when performing
the covenants of the State, to use the wire, can be understood;
the right to a rescission of the contract, if either party prayed
therefor, can be understood: but this right which each claims,
that it shall be let alone by the other to do as it pleases in
regard to this wire, is very difficult to understand.
Complainant, in the petition, treats as revoked the power and
privilege of defendant to use the wire and instruments. Is this
an abandonment of the contract by complainant?
But there is in the bill a prayer for such other and general
relief as the case may require. There is also the following
stipulation after the pleadings are all in, which relieves us of
much difficulty : "It is agreed by counsel, that if the use of the wire by the
defendant is affected by the contract entered into between the
complainant and the State (which contract is copied in the exhibit
to the bill) in such manner as that the terms of said contract must
be observed and complied with by defendant in order to retain the

Oct. 1875.]

Oct.
FoRSYTHE
875.]
v. KmAL.

right to such use, the case is one proper for reference to the master
to take an account, unless the court should adjudge that there is
no right in complainant to relief in equity."
Now, we are of opinion that the use of the wire by defendant
is affected by the contract between complainant and the State,
in such manner, that such use requires the defendant to comply
with the terms of that contract.
We are also of opinion that to prevent multiplicity of suits,
and to have an accounting, instead of bringing a suit on every
specific violation of the covenants of the State, complainant has
a right to relief in equity.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed, with
directions to refer the case to a master to state an account on
the terms of the contract between the State and the telegraph
company, as between the complainant and defendant,for the
time defendant has used the wires, batteries, and equipments
put up under that contract, and to render a decree for that
amount.
MR.JusTiCE FlELD dissented.

FonsYTn l v. TIrAT,.

In the absence

of fraud, accident, or mistake, the rule is the same in equity as
at law, that parol evidence of an oral agreement alleged to have been made
at the time of the drawing, making, or indorsing a bill or note, cannot be
permitted to vary, qualify, or contradict, or to add to or subtract from, the
absolute terms of the written contract.

AF:PFA-L from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hr. WF C. Goudy
for the appellant, and by Mr.John Z. Thompson for the appellee.

Mm. JusTICE SwA=x delivered the opinion of the court.
The case made by the bill is as follows: -

