Oct. 1875.]

MdMURRAY ET AL. v. BROWN.

of equitable consideration, they are so mixed up with others of
a different character, or which cannot be entertained by the
Circuit Court of the United States, and which constitute the
main object and purpose of the suit, as to make the bill essentially bad on demurrer. In the first place, the great object of
the suit is to enjoin and stop litigation in the State courts, and
to bring all the litigated questions before the Circuit Court.
This is one of the things which the Federal courts are expressly
prohibited from doing. By the act of March 2, 1793, it was
declared that a writ of injunction shall not be granted to stay
proceedings in a State court. This prohibition is repeated in
sect. 720 of the Revised Statutes, and extends to all cases
except where otherwise provided by the Bankrupt Law. This
objection alone is sufficient ground for sustaining the demurrer
to the bill. In the next place, the claim that the court ought
to interfere on account of multiplicity of suits is manifestly
unfounded. Only three suits are specified for this purpose in
the bill, and each of these has a distinct object, founded on a
distinct ground, and is instituted by a distinct class of claimants, who had a perfect right to institute the suit they did.
The State courts have full and ample jurisdiction of the cases,
and no sufficient reason appears for interfering with their proMe decree of t7e Circuit Court is affirmed.
ceedings.

McMunnAY rc iAL. v. BnoviH.
Where a party furnished materials for the construction of a building, under an
agreement that the owner thereof, by way of payment for them, would convey
to him certain real estate at a stipulated price per foot, -Held, that on the
refusal of the owner so to convey, or in lieu thereof to pay for such materials,
the party is entitled to his lien, provided that in due time he gives the notice
required by law.
EAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action to enforce a mechanics' lien under sect. 1
of the act of Congress approved Feb. 2, 1859, 11 Stat. 376,
which provides, "That any person who shall hereafter, by
virtue of any contract with the owner of any building, or with
A

VOL. 1.

17

MCAIURRAY

ET AL.

v.

BROWN.

[Sup. Or.

the agent of such owner, perform any labor upon, or furnish any
materials, engine, or machinery for the construction or repairing of, such building, shall, upon filing the notice prescribed
in sect. 2 of this act, have a lien upon such building and
the lot of ground upon which the same is situated for such
labor done, or materials, engine, or machine furnished, when
the amount shall exceed twenty dollars."
The second section provides, "That any person wishing to
avail himself of this act, whether his claim be due or not, shall
file in the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court of the District
of Columbia at any time after the commencement of the said
building, and within three months after the completion of such
building or repairs, a notice of his intention to hold a lien upon
the property declared by this act liable to such lien for the
amount due or to become due to him, specifically setting forth
the amount claimed. Upon his failure to do so, the lien shall
be lost."
Mrs. AelMcurray, one of the defendants, was indebted to the
complainant in the sum of $1,230.62 for materials furnished
by him in the construction of two dwelling-houses on lots
belonging to her in the city of Washington, under an agreement, that, upon the delivery of said materials, she would, in
payment therefor, convey to him, at the rate of forty-five cents
per square foot, certain real estate situate in said city. She
subsequently refused to comply with the agreement, but promised to pay him the amount of his bill in cash.
No payment having been made, he, on the 13th of February,
1872, the houses then being uncompleted, gave the required
notice of his intention to hold the property subject to his
lien.
The court below rendered a decree in favor of the complainant; from which an appeal was taken to this court.
Jll'. James S. -Edwardsfor the appellants.
It is insisted as matter of law, that the complainant, upon
his own showing, is not entitled to relief. "Where there
is a special contract between a mechanic and the owner or
builder of a house for the work which the former is to do in
constructing the house, he must look to his contract alone for
his security, and cannot resort to the remedy which the me-

Oct. 1875.]

MOMURRAY ET AL. v. BRoWN.

chanics' lien law provides." Haley v. Prosser,8 W. & S. 133;
Grantv. Strong, 18 Wall. 623.
The complainant must have been entitled to file his lien
when the contract was made. He can do nothing afterwards
to alter his position. J1oatz v. Patterson, 5 W. & S. 537.
He clearly had no right to file his lien when the alleged
agreement was made; for, by its terms, Mrs. McMurray was
to convey a certain lot in exchange for the material furnished.
His action for a breach of the contract is by a different proceeding. He has a remedy at law; no standing here.
Mr. .Edwin L. Stanton for the appellee.
It is submitted that the facts show a contract -within the
statute; but the appellant insists "that the complainant, upon
his own showing, is not entitled to the relief he seeks, for the
contract upon which he relies is a special one." In support of
this proposition, he cites the cases of Haley v. Prosser,8 W. & S.
133 ; Hoatz v. Patterson, 5 id. 537 ; Grant v. Strong, 18 Wall.
623.
The two former decisions "were a surprise to the profession,
acted almost as a nullification of the law, and were followed by
an act of the legislature extending the lien to all cases of contracts." Phill. on Mech. Liens, 166, citing Lay v. Millette,
1 Phila. 513; ERussell v. Bell, 44 Penn. 47.
Grant v. Strong in no manner supports the proposition, that,
when a special contract has been made, the material-men or
laborers have no lien.
The complainant, having no other security, was not deprived
of his lien by reason of agreeing to accept land instead of money
for his materials. There is no distinction in principle between
an agreement to pay money or property which can possibly
affect the remedy provided. Phill. on Mech. Liens, 182;
Campbell & Kennedy v. Scaife et al., 1 Phila. 187; Havilandv.
Pratt,id. 364; ffinchman v. Lybrand, 14 S. & R. 32; tReiley
v. Ward, 4 Iowa, 21.
MR. JUSTicE CLOimuoD delivered the opinion of the court.
Mechanics or other persons, who, by virtue of any contract
with the owner of any building, or with the agent of such
owner, have, since the 2d of February, 1859, performed labor,

260

McMURRAY ET AL. v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ct.

exceeding the value of twenty dollars, upon such building, or
have furnished materials, engine, or machinery exceeding that
value, for the construction or repairing of such building, shall,
upon filing the notice prescribed in the second section of the
Lien Act of that date, have a lien upon such building, and the
lot of ground upon which the same is situated, for such labor
done, or materials, engine, or machinery furnished. 11 Stat.
376.
Building materials of great value, such as bricks and lumber,
were furnished by the complainant to the first-named respondent, by virtue of a verbal agreement, as he alleges, between
him and the husband of the respondent, acting as her agent.
Service was made, and the respondent appeared, and by her
answer admitted the averments of the first, second, fourth, and
seventh paragraphs of the bill of complaint, but denied every
other material allegation which it contains.
Proofs were taken; and, the parties having been fully heard,
the judge, at special term, entered a decree that the complainant recover of the respondent the sum of twelve hundred and
thirty dollars and sixty-two cents, with interest, as therein
provided; and that the described real estate, - to wit, lots numbered thirty-six and thirty-seven, - together with the buildings
and improvements thereon, be, and hereby are, subjected to
the satisfaction of the complainant's demand.
Due appeal was taken by the respondent to the general term,
where the decree of the special term was in all things affirmed;
and the respondent appealed to this court.
Two other persons were named as respondents in the bill of
complaint who never filed any answer, and are not parties to
the decree, for the reason that no relief is sought against them,
they having been joined as respondents merely for the purpose
of discovery in respect to a prior lien held on the premises by
the one named as trustee, to secure a debt due to the other.
Seasonable appearance was entered by the respondent, and
she filed an answer; but, the answer having been lost, it is
stipulated and agreed between the parties, that the answer, as
before stated, admitted all the averments of the first, second,
fourth, and seventh paragraphs of the bill of complaint, and
that it denied every other allegation of the complainant.

Oct. 1875.]

A1031UIAY ET AL. V. BROWN.

Lumber and bricks were furnished by the complainant for
two houses; and the evidence shows that the respondent owned
both lots on which the houses were being constructed, and that
she was represented throughout the transaction by her husband,
who acted as her agent in constructing the houses. Nothing
further need be remarked respecting the deed of trust of prior
date, as it is admitted by stipulation that the deed is cancelled,
and that the debt secured by it is discharged.
Due notice of the intention of the complainant to hold a lien
upon the property, as required by the act of Congress, is admitted by the answer; nor is it necessary to discuss the question
as to the agency of her husband in the transaction, as that also
is admitted by the respondent. What the respondent denies is,
that either she, or her agent in her behalf, ever made any such
contract with the complainant as that set forth in the bill of
complaint, or that the complainant ever furnished and delivered
to her or her agent the building materials specified in the, bill
of particulars annexed to the bill of complaint, or that the materials were ever used by her or by her authority in the construction of the said houses.
Lots thirty-six and thirty-seven belonged to the respondent,
and the proof is that they adjoin each other. Prior to the alleged agreement with the complainant, the respondent entered
into a contract with another party to build a two-story brick
house for her on the lot first named, the contractor agreeing to
build the house, and furnish, at his own proper cost and expense,
all the materials necessary to complete the same in a workmanlike manner; for which the respondent agreed to pay to the
contractor the sum of one thousand dollars, and at the same
time to convey to him lot thirty-seven, and to pay the balance,
amounting to twelve hundred dollars, in notes of ffty dollars
each, payable monthly, at eight per cent interest, to be secured
by a deed of trust on lot thirty-six, and the house to be built
by the contractor, subject to a prior deed of trust on the same
lot. By the record, it appears that the contract, though it bears
date the 6th of June, 1871, was not actually executed until
about the middle of July following, and that the contractor
failed to fulfil the stipulations of the written contract.
Perkins, the contractor, was without means or credit, and

MCMURRAY

ET AL. v. BROWN.

[Sup. Ot

possessed no capital whatever, except his skill as a builder;
and the husband of the respondent, though he controlled the
real estate standing in the name of his wife, was without any
ready means at his command: consequently the materials for
completing the house could not be obtained except by exchanging some of the real estate for the same. Detailed account is
given, in the testimony, of the measures adopted by the parties
to effect such an exchange of real estate for building materials; but it must suffice to say that all of the negotiations
failed.
All of these attempts to procure building materials by exchanging real estate for the same took place before the contract for building the house was signed; and, at the close of
those attempts, an interview occurred between the contractor
under the written agreement and the complainant, when the
latter informed the former that he would furnish lumber and
bricks in exchange for lot thirty-seven, computing the value of
the lot at forty-five cents per foot. Within two hours after the
conversation, the former contractor reported the same to the
husband of the respondent, and told him to have the deed
of the lot made directly to the complainant, and proposed, at
the same time, to divide between them the five cents per foot
advance in price which the seller would receive beyond the
consideration promised by the former contractor.
Abundant evidence is given to show that the offer of the
complainant to take conveyance of the lot, and furnish the
building materials as required, was accepted by the husband
of the respondent; and that he, the agent, agreed that the lot
should be conveyed to the complainant as proposed.
Pursuant to that arrangement, which appears to have been
fairly and understandingly made, the complainant continued
to deliver the required building materials; and the conduct of
the husband of the respondent throughout the whole period
the materials were furnished and delivered shows to the entire
satisfaction of the court that the materials were furnished and
delivered in pursuance of that understanding, and that he knew
that the owner and furnisher of the same was parting with his
property in the just and full expectation that the whole passed
to the benefit of his wife under that arrangement. Evidence

Oct. 1875.]

MCMUBl AY ET AL.

v.

BROWN.

to that effect is found in the testimony of several witnesses;
and it is not going too far to say that there is nothing in the
record worthy of credit to contradict that theory.
Part of the building materials furnished by the complainant
before he made his contract with the respondent were used by
the first contractor in the erection of a house on lot thirtyseven, which he designed for himself; but the title and
ownership of that lot, as well as lot thirty-six, were in the
respondent; 'and on the 1st of November, 1871, she took
actual possession of the lot and the unfinished structure
thereon which had been commenced by the former contractor,
and ever after continued in the possession and control both of
the lot and the building.
Nothing further was ever done by the contractor to complete
these houses, and the record shows that the same were completed by another contractor employed by the same agent of
the respondent. All of the materials for that purpose were
furnished by the complainant; and the record also shows that
he furnished all the materials used in constructing and completing both houses, except a small part of the bricks, worth
perhaps one hundred dollars, which were purchased by the
managing agent of the respondent.
Attempt is made by the respondent to controvert the proposition that her agent ever contracted with the complainant
to furnish the building materials in question, and to take the
conveyance of lot thirty-seven in payment for the same: but
the evidence is so full and satisfactory to that effect, that it is
not deemed necessary to add any thing to what has already
been remarked upon the subject; nor is it of any importance
that she had previously agreed to convey the lot to her former
contractor, in case he completed the house for her on lot thirtybix, as he had failed to fulfil the contract, and she had dispossessed him of the premises and of the partly-erected house
which he had commenced.
Materials for that purpose to a considerable amount had been
furnished by the complainant during the progress of the work,
while it was under the superintendence of the former contractor:
but inasmuch as the title of both lots was all the time in the
respondent, and she had lawfully resumed the possession of lot

264

CMOURRAY ET AL. v. BRowN.

[Sup. Ct.

thirty-seven on account of the failure of the contractor to complete the building on the other lot within the prescribed time,
it was entirely competent for the respondent to make the new
contract with the complainant, which it is proved she did make
through her agent; and, having made the same, she is bound by
its terms and conditions just the same as if it had been in
writing.
Suppose the facts are so: still it is insisted by the respondent,
as matter of law, that the complainant is not entitled to the
relief he seeks, for the reason that the contract set up by him
is a special contract. The theory is, that the materials having
been furnished upon the verbal contract set out in the bill of
complaint, that he, the complainant, should furnish the materials, and that she, the respondent, should convey lot thirtyseven to him in payment for the same, that that contract creates
no lien, as the materials were furnished solely upon the faith of
the special agreement; but the record shows that her agent
who made the contract persuaded the complainant to wait for
the conveyance until all the materials had been furnished, and
that he, the agent, then refused to make the conveyance. Instead of doing as he agreed, having received an offer of fifteen
cents per foot for the lot more than the complainant was to
allow, he, the agent, promised to pay the complainant the
money for the materials, but failed to make good his promise in
that regard.
Both houses were completed; and the proof is, that the complainant furnished all the lumber and nearly all the bricks for
the purpose, and that he has received no payment for the materials. On the other hand, it appears that the respondent has
sold one of the houses for six thousand dollars, and that she
and her husband were living in the other.
Other defences failing, her proposition now is, that, where
there is a special contract between a mechanic and the owner
or builder of a house for the work which the former is to do in
constructing the house, he must look to his contract alone for
his security, and that he cannot resort to the remedy which the
lien law provides. Support to that proposition cannot be derived from any thing contained in the act of Congress passed
to enforce mechanics' liens, unless the words of the first section

Oct. 18T .]

McMumA.y ET AL. v. BRowN.

of the act are shorn of their usual and ordinary import and
signification.
Persons who perform labor upon, or furnish materials, &c.,
for, the construction or repairing of a building, by virtue of any
contract with the owner of the same, or his agent, have a right
to the benefit of the lien if he files the notice prescribed by the
second section of the act. Certainly the words any contract
are sufficiently comprehensive to include special contracts as
well as contracts which arise by implication, unless the materialman is secured by a deed of trust or mortgage, or in some other
form of security repugnant to the theory that he ever intended
"to hold a lien under the mechanics' lien law."
Special reference is made by the respondent to two decided
cases in Pennsylvania in support of her proposition that the
lien law does not extend to special contracts. _foatz v. Patterson, 5 W. & S. 538; H1aley v. Prosser, 8 id. 133. Unexplained, it may be admitted that those cases do afford support
to the proposition that the State lien law to which they refer
did not extend to the debt of a material-man, arising from the
sale and delivery of building materials, if furnished under a
special contract; but those decisions were never satisfactory to
the legal profession of that State, and it is believed are not regarded as safe precedents even in the jurisdiction where they
were made. Instead of that, the legislature of the State, on
the 16th of April, 1860, passed a declaratory law, which enacts
that the true intent and meaning of the provisions of the prior
act extend to and embrace claims for labor done and materials
furnished and used in erecting any house or other building
which may have been or shall be erected under or in pursuance
of any contract or agreement for the erection of the same, and
that the provisions of the former "act shall be so construed."
Since that time, it has been held by the courts of that State to
the effect that special contracts, as well as implied, are within
the true intent and meaning of the original lien law of the State.
lussell v. Bell, 44 Penn. 36-54; Reiley v. Ward, 4 Greene

(Iowa), 21.
Cases may arise, undoubtedly, where the rights and responsibilities of the parties are so completely defined by the contract, that neither party is at liberty to claim any thing beyond

MCMURRAY ET AL. V. BROWN.

[Sup. OL

the terms of the contract, if the contract is in all respects fulfilled. Consequently, lien laws do not in general create a lien
in favor of a material-man who has accepted in full a different
security at the time the contract or agreement was made. Examples of the kind, such as a trust-deed or mortgage, may be
mentioned, which are regarded as a species of security inconsistent with the idea of a mechanics' lien upon the same land
for the same debt. Grant v. Strong, 18 Wall. 623 ; Phill. on
IAech. Liens, sect. 117.
Such a security is regarded as inconsistent with the intent
of the parties that a mechanics' lien should be claimed by the
party furnishing building materials, as the owner may obligate
himself to pay in money, land, or any specific article of property; but, if he does not fulfil his contract by paying in the
manner stipulated, the mechanic is entitled to his lien. 1?eiley
v. Ward, 4 Greene, 22.
If the labor has been performed or the materials furnished,
no matter in what the owner agreed to pay, if he has not paid
in any way, the laborer or mechanic has a right to resort to
the security provided by law, unless the rights of third persons
intervene before he gives the required notice.
Contracts of a special character, such as to give a mortgage
to the laborer or mechanic, if duly executed under circumstances
showing that the claim to a lien was not intended by the parties, may defeat such a claim; but a mere promise to give such
a security, if subsequently broken, will not impair such a right
if the requisite notice is given before any right of a third party,
as by attachment or conveyance, has become vested in the
premises. Laches in that behalf may impair such a right, and
it is one which the claimant may waive. Phill. on Mech. Liens,
sects. 117, 272.
Liens of the kind, except where the statute otherwise provides, arise by operation of law, independent of the express
terms of the contract, in case the stipulated labor is performed
or the promised materials are furnished; the principle being,
that the parties are supposed to contract on the basis, that, if
the stipulated labor is performed or the promised materials are
furnished, the laborer or material-man is entitled to the lien
which the law affords, provided he gives the required notice

Oct. 1875.]

BLACK ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

within the specified time. 11 Stat. 876; Phill. on Meekb
Liens, sect. 118.
Viewed in any light, it is clear that there is no error in the
record.
-Decreeaffirmed.

BLAcK m AL. V. UNITED STATES.
Where a contract provides for the transportation of military stores and supplies
from certain posts, ddpbts, or stations, or from and to any other posts, ddp6ts, or
stations, that might be established within a described district, or from one point
to another within the route, -Hetd, that Fort Phil. Kearney, being a military
post, although not specifically named in the contract, nor established after the
date thereof, was "1apoint" where the contractor was required to receive military stores and supplies for transportation to another point within the route,
and that he was entitled to payment under the contract and at the rates
therein mentioned for the distance they were actually carried, but not to
additional compensation for the travel of his unloaded teams in reaching that
fort.

from the Court of Claims.
A contract was entered into between the United States and
the claimants for the transportation of military stores and supplies on Route No. 1, west of the Missouri River, the material
provisions of which are as follows ArPE.

"ARTICLE 1. That the said Black, Kitchen, & Martin shall receive at any time, in any of the months from April 1, 1868, to
March 31, 1869, inclusive, from the officers or agents of the quartermaster's department at Fort D. A. Russell, in the Territory of
Dakota, or such point as may be determined upon during the year
on the Omaha branch of the Union Pacific Railroad, west of Fort D.
A. Russell, or at Fort Laramie, Dakota Territory, all such military
stores and supplies as may be offered or turned over to them for
transportation, in good order and condition, by the officer or agent
of the quartermaster's department, at any or all of the above points
or places, and transport the same with despatch, and deliver them
in like good order and condition to the officer or agent of the
quartermaster's department on duty or designated to receive them
at any of the posts or d6pbts that are now or may be established in
the State of Nebraska, west of longitude 102 degrees; in the Territory of Montana, south of latitude 47 degrees; in the Territory of
Dakota, west of longitude 104 degrees; in the Territory of Idaho,

