WARREN ET AL. V. SHOOK.

[Sup. Ct.

WARREN ET AL. V. SHOOK.
1. The substance of the business of a banker, as defined by the acts of Congress
approved June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 252), and March 3, 1865 (id. 472), is having
2.

3.

4.

6.

a place of business where deposits are received and paid out on checks, and
where money is loaned upon security.
By the same acts, a broker is defined to be one whose business it is to negotiate purchases or sales of stocks, exchange, bullion, coined money, banknotes, promissory notes, or other securities, for himself or for others.
The words " whose business it is," employed in the ninth subdivision of the
seventy ninth section of the act of 1864, qualify all parts of the definition
of a broker as given in the act; so that a person becomes a broker, within
the meaning of the statute, only when making sales and purchases is his
business, trade, profession, means of getting his living, or making his fortune.
While the sale by a person doing a banking business only of a security received by him for the repayment of a legitimate loan does not make him
a broker, and subject him to taxation as such, yet, when it is his business,
the statute properly holds all such acts, whether in the name of himself
ostensibly or in the name of others, to be those of a broker.
Congress, by enacting " that all brokers, and bankers doing business as brokers,
shall be subject" to the duties specified, plainly intended to include the
entire class of persons engaged in the business of buying and selling stocks
and coin.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This case was tried upon the following agreed statement of
facts: -

First, "That the plaintiffs, from the first day of April, 1865,
to the first day of May, 1866, were copartners in the city of
New York, doing business under the firm name of ' John Warren & Son.' "
Second, That, during such time, the plaintiffs, as such copartners, had a place of business in the thirty-second collection
district of New York, where credits were opened by the deposit
and collectioh of money and currency subject to be paid or
remitted upon draft, check, or order, and where money was
advanced and loaned by plaintiffs on stocks, bonds, bullion,
bills of exchange, and promissory notes, and where stocks,
bonds, bullion, bills of exchange, and promissory notes, were
received by plaintiffs for discount and sale.
Third, That, during the period aforesaid, the said plaintiffs,
as such copartners, duly paid the special tax imposed upon

Oct. 1875.]

WARREN ET AL. V. SHOOK.

them as bankers, in accordance with the provisions of the
seventy-ninth section of the act of Congress entitled "An Act
to provide internal revenue to support the government," &c.,
approved June 30, 1864.
.ourth, That, during the period aforesaid, the defendant was
collector of internal revenue for the said thirty-second collection
district of New York.
-Fifth, That, during the period aforesaid, the plaintiffs bought
and sold stock and gold, both of their own property on their
own account, and also upon commission for other parties.
The sales in question were of three kinds :
Ist, Sales of their own property.
2d, Sales of gold, stocks, bonds, bullion, &c., transmitted to
them by their correspondents, and the same or the proceeds
drawn against; in some of which cases the sales of the transmitted property were made immediately, and the proceeds at
once applied to the payment of drafts so drawn, and in others
of which the drafts were accepted or paid; and the gold, stock,
&c., were held for a better market, or to await further orders,
and in the mean time stood as their security for their advances,
and to provide reimbursement therefor. In other cases there
were no actual advances, but the property held for sale; and,
when sold by order of the customer, the proceeds were placed
to credit, subject to draft.
3d, Sales of stock made in pursuance of an arrangement for
what is called carrying stocks on a margin, wherein they, upon
the deposit with them of a percentage on the amount of the
stocks, advanced money and purchased stocks for the dealer
or speculator (who dealt in hope of making a profit by the
rise in the market-price), and held the same subject to his
order to sell, and finally sold the same for his account as to
profit and loss. These transactions were conducted in the
name of the plaintiffs, the name of the customer not being
disclosed to those to whom the stocks were finally sold.
Upon these purchases and sales they charged and received
from their customers the usual commission for purchasing and
selling stocks for account of others; and the tax imposed and
paid to the United States on the sales was also charged to
such customers. If the transaction showed a profit, it was paid
VOL. I.

45

WARREN ET AL. V.

SHOOK.

[Sup. Ot.

to the customer, with a return to him of the cash or security
held as a margin; if the transaction resulted in a loss, the
amount of such margin returned to the customer was correspondingly reduced.
Sixth, That, during the period aforesaid, the assessor of internal revenue for the said district assessed monthly against
the said plaintiffs the tax of one-twentieth of one per centumn
on stock, securities, gold, &c., provided for by the ninety-ninth
section of the act aforesaid, to be paid by brokers, and bankers
doing business as brokers, and assessed such tax against the
plaintiffs alike upon the securities, stocks, bullion, &c., sold by
them on commission for others, and upon those owned by said
plaintiffs, and sold by them upon their own account.
Seventh, That, at the times of the said several assessments so
made by said assessor, the plaintiffs protested against their liability to pay, and against the right of the said assessor to impose
or assess, the said tax of one-twentieth of one per centum, or
any other sum whatever, upon the value of the stocks, gold, or
securities owned by said plaintiffs, and sold by them upon and
for their own account, and not upon commission or for others.
Eighth, That the assessment-roll containing said assessment
was transmitted to the said defendant as such collector; ana the
said defendant, as such collector, demanded from said plaintiffs
the whole sum so assessed against them by said assessor as and
for the said tax; and the plaintiffs were compelled to pay, and
did pay under protest, to the said defendant, as such collector,
the said tax upon the whole amount of their sales during said
period, including sales made on their own account as aforesaid.
iXinth, That the amount of such payments so made by the
said plaintiffs, with the dates thereof, are correctly set forth in
the schedule hereto annexed, marked "A : " the first colum in
such schedule showing the whole amount of such tax paid at
the respective dates therein indicated; and the second column
showing the portions of said several payments, which were for
taxes upon sales made by plaintiffs upon their own account,
and not upon commission, and which plaintiffs seek in this
action to recover.
Tenth, That about the third day of December, 1870, the
plaintiffs duly appealed, pursuant to law and the regulations of

Oct. 1875.]

WARREN ET AL. V). SH0OOK.

the Treasury Department made in pursuance thereof, to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, from the assessment and
collection of said taxes, imposed upon said plaintiffs, upon sales
made by them upon their own account, and claimed by them to
be erroneously and illegally assessed against and collected from
them; and the said commissioner, on the twenty-fourth day of
May, 1871, and less than six months before the commencement
of this action, rendered his decision upon said appeal adversely
to these plaintiffs.
No further evidence was offered by either party.
Thereupon the counsel moved the said court that judgment
be entered for the defendant, and said plaintiffs' counsel moved
that judgment be entered for the plaintiffs.
After argument and deliberation, the court denied the said
motion of said plaintiffs' counsel: whereupon the said counsel
for the plaintiffs did then and there duly except thereto.
The court then directed that judgment be entered for the
defendant; to which direction and conclusions of law of the
court upon the foregoing facts set forth in said direction
the said plaintiffs' counsel then and there duly excepted, and
sued out this writ of error.
SCHEDu1nE A.

.ist of Taxes paid by John "arren
and Gold.

S,gon on Sales of Stocks
Bills paid.

Amt. for own

accounit.

1865.
June 16.

17.

For April, on stock . .
on gold
.
.

For May, on stock
on gold

Aug. 19.

For June, on stock

Sept. 18.

For July, on stock
on gold

.

.

.

$597.50
28.78

.
.

$626.28

$501.28

363.07

295.25

242.50

219.00

6516.95

366.75

$324.65
38.42

.

. . $242.50

.

.
.

.

.

$.515.75

60

Carried forward

. . $1,282.28

708

[Sup. Ct.

WARREN ET AL. v. SHOOK.
Brought forward

Oct.

ia

Dec.

1.

1866.
Jan. 6.

For August, on stock

.

$346.50

For September, on stock
on stock
,,

.

$422.95
510.20

. .

$1,382.28

$346.50

287.50

933.15

422.95

.

$805.97
685.50
1,491.47
.
$520.11
on
stock
18. For November,
Allowed overpaid for Sept. 422.95
103.16
April 2. For February, on stock . $185.60
172.50
,,
on stock
358.10
. $227.10
28. For March, on stock
311.50
on stock
,
,,
538.60
$210.31
.
.
.
stock
on
April,
Sept. 21. For
For October, on stock
,,
on stock

,,

May,

,,

,,

,,

,,

,,

.

.

.

124.20

172.50

311.50

93.86

.

.

685.50

. .

95.64
399.81
$3,386.43

Mr. B. K. Phelps for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Edwin B. Smith for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIoE HuNT delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs were licensed bankers in the city of New York.
They also bought and sold gold and stocks for others upon a
commission paid to them for that service. On their own
account, they also dealt largely in gold and stocks. They have
paid the taxes imposed by the revenue laws upon bankers.
The government agents have now imposed upon them, and
collected the taxes chargeable by law upon brokers. This
includes the tax of one-twentieth of one per cent upon sales
made by the plaintiffs on their own account, as well as upon
sales made for others. It is to this that the plaintiffs object,
and the present action is brought to recover back such taxes.

Oct. 1875.]

WARREN

AL. V. SHOOK.

The questions would seem to be, 1st, Do the tran.actions specified make the defendants brokers
within the meaning of the revenue laws?
2d, Are licensed bankers, who also do business as brokers,
liable to the additional tax imposed upon brokers?
3d, More precisely, are the plaintiffs liable to pay taxes upon
sales made on their own account, as well as when made for
others ?
Sect. 110 of the act to provide internal revenue, &c.,
approved June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 277), imposes a duty of
one-twenty-fourth of one per cent each month on deposits,
one-twenty-fourth of one per cent each month on the capital, one-twelfth of one per cent each month on the circulation,
and an additional one-sixth of one per cent on certain specified
excess of circulation, to be paid by "any bank, association,
company, or corporation, or person engaged in the business of
banking, beyond the amount invested in United States bonds."
Sect. 79, subdivision of the same act (13 Stat. 251), provides
"that bankers using or employing a capital not exceeding the
sum of $50,000 shall pay $100 for each license," and for every
additional $1,000 of capital two dollars; and that "every person,
firm, or company, and every incorporated or other bank having
a place of business where credits are opened by the deposit or
collection of money or currency, subject to be paid or remitted
upon draft, check, or order, or where money is advanced or
loaned on stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange, or promissory notes, or where stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange,
or promissory notes, are received for discount or sale, shall be
regarded a banker under this act."
The same sect. 79, subd. 9, as amended by the act of March 8,
1865 (13 Stat. 252, 472), provides "that every person, firm,
or company, except such as hold a license as a banker, whose
business it is, as a broker, to negotiate purchases or sales of
stocks, exchange, bullion, coined money, bank-notes, promissory
notes, or other securities, for themselves or others, shall be
regarded as a broker under this act; provided that any person
holding a license as a banker shall not be required to take out a
license as a broker;" and it further provides that "brokers
shall nay fifty dollars for each license."

WARREN ET AL. V.

SH00K.

[Sup. 0t.

The ninety-ninth section of the same act provides (18 Stat.
273) "that all brokers and bankers doing business as brokers
shall be subject to pay the following duties, and rates of duties,
upon the sales of merchandise, produce, gold and silver, bullion,
foreign exchange, uncurrent money, promissory notes, stocks,
bonds, and other securities, as hereinafter mentioned, &c.; that
is to say, upon all sales, and contracts for sales, of stocks
and bonds, one-twentieth of one per centum on the par value
thereof; and of gold and silver, bullion and coin, foreign exchange, promissory notes, or other securities, one-twentieth of
one per centum on the amount of such sales and of all contracts
for sales."
The sections we have quoted furnish satisfactory definitions
of the business of a banker and of that of a broker. "Every
person, &c., having a place of business where credits are
opened by the deposit or collection of money or currency, subject to be paid or remitted upon draft, check, or order, or where
money is advanced on stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange,
or promissory notes, or where stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of
exchange, or promissory notes, are received for discount or
sale, shall be regarded as a banker under this act." Sect. 79,
subd. 1.
Having a place of business where deposits are received and
paid out on checks, and where money is loaned upon security,
is the substance of the business of a banker.
By the same section, subd. 9, a broker is defined to be one
whose business it is to negotiate purchases or sales of stocks,
exchange, bullion, coined money, bank-notes, promissory notes,
or other securities, for himself or for others. Ordinarily, the
term "broker" is applied to one acting for others; but the part
of the definition which speaks of purchases and sales for himself
is equally important as that which speaks of sales and purchases
for others. All parts of the definition are qualified by the
words "whose business it is." Thus, if A. B. has $10,000
which he desires to invest, and purchases United States stock,
or State stock, or any other securities, he does not thereby
become a broker. Nor if he owns $10,000 of United States
stock which he wishes to sell to raise money to pay his debts,
or because he is not satisfied with six per cent interest, is he

Oct. 18T5.]

WRREN ET AL. V. SHOOK.

thereby made a broker. It is only when making sales and
purchases is his business, his trade, his profession, his means of
getting his living, or of making his fortune, that he becomes a
broker within the meaning of the statute. Nor is it believed
that a sale, by one doing a banking business only, of a security
received by him for the repayment of a legitimate loan, would
make him a broker, and subject to the tax. This would not
be deemed an act of brokerage, either under the statute or upon
general principles of law. When it is his business, the statute
properly holds all such acts, whether in the name of himself
ostensibly or in the name of others, as the acts of a broker.
The danger and the facility for evasion of the statute furnish
excellent reasons for the adoption of this provision.
The contention of the plaintiffs is, that, because they hold a
license as bankers, they are not liable to the duty of onetwentieth of one per centum on sales made on their own account.
This is based upon the words of sect. 79, subd. 9, that all persons, &c., except such as hold a license as bankers, shall be
liable to this duty on sales made for themselves as well as
others, and upon the further suggestion that sect. 99 does not
contain the words "for themselves or others." We agree with
the statement of TMr. Justice Grier in U. S. v. Fisk, 3 Wall. 445,
that the idea of Congress would have been better expressed
if the words "for themselves or others" had been inserted
in sect. 99, rather than where they are now found. Still we
find no difficulty in reaching the conclusion, that the tax in this
case was properly imposed.
The intent of Congress to subject to taxation all sales made
by those engaged in the business of brokers is plain enough.
When it was said (sect. 99) "that all brokers and bankers
doing business as brokers shall be subject" to the duties specified, it was intended to encompass the entire class 'of persons
engaged in the business of buying and selling stocks and coin.
Brokers were included by name and by definition. Bankers
would not so certainly be embraced by the definition givenin sect.
79, subd. 1. To meet this possible exception, it was enacted, that,
whien bankers should do the business of brokers, they should
be subject to the duty specified. In this manner, brokers technically, and bankers doing the business of brokers, were made

RAYMOND v. THONAS.

[Sup. 0t.

liable to the duty. If the right to tax bankers upon sales made
for themselves rested on the seventy-ninth section alone, a plausible argument could be made in the plaintiffs' favor, arising from
the words "except such as hold a license as a banker; " but
when we read in sect. 99, "that all brokers, and bankers doing
business as brokers," shall be subject to the tax, and consider
the statutory definition of a broker, the plausibility of the
argument ceases.
We have carefully considered the cases of U. S. v. Fisk,
3 Wall. 445, U. S. v. Cutting, id. 441, and Clark v. Gilbert,
5 Blatch. 330, but do not deem it necessary to comment upon
Judgment affirmed.
them in detail.

RAYNIOND v. THOMAS.
The special order, issued May 28, 1868, by the officer in command of the forces
of the United States in South Carolina, wholly annulling a decree rendered by
a court of chancery in that State in a case within its jurisdiction, was void. It
was not warranted by the acts approved respectively Mfarch 2, 1867 (14 Stat.
428), and July 19 of the same year (15 id. 14), which define the powers and
duties of military officers in command of the several States then lately in
rebellion.

to the Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina.
Mr. P. Philltps for the plaintiff in error.
ERR oR

11r. W.

. Boyce for the defendant in error.

MR. JusTi E SwAy.rL- delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts in this case, as disclosed in the record, are somewhat involved and complicated. So far as it is necessary to
consider them for the purposes of this opinion, they are not
voluminous.
On the 25th of August, 1863, Mary Raymond bought from
Thomas, the defendant in error, a small house and lot situated
in Greenville, S.C., for which she gave him her note for $7,000,
payable six months after the ratification of peace between the
Confederates dnd the United States, or before, at her option,
with annual interest from the first day of September, 1863.
The premises were conveyed at the time of the sale, and the

