Oct. 1875.]

ATHERTON ET AL. v. FoWLER ET AL.

the issues made as to vitiate the verdict and judgment thereon.
The reported decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana show
numerous instances where similar verdicts upon like petitions
have been sustained.
Judgment affirmed.

ATHERTON ET AL. V. FOwLER ET AL.
1. As the appellate jurisdiction of this court over the State courts is confined to
a re-examination of the final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest
court of a State in which the decision of a suit could be had, the writ of
error sued out here should be sent only to such court; unless the latter,
after pronouncing judgment, sends its record and judgment, in accordance with the laws and practice of the State, to the inferior court, where
they thereafter remain. In such case, the writ may he sent either directly
to the latter court, or to the highest court, in order that, through its instrumentality, the record may be obtained from the inferior court having it in
custody or under control.
2. Where the Supreme Court of California reversed the judgment of an inferior
court, and directed a modification thereof as to the amount of damages, but
without permitting further proceedings below, if the defendants consented
to the modification, and the record shows that such consent was given, 41d, that the judgment of the Supreme Court is final within the meaning
of the act of Congress, and that the writ of error was properly directed to
that court.
3. 'Under the authority of sect. 1005 of the Revised Statutes, a writ of error
may be amended by inserting the proper return day.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of California.
This is an action of replevin, brought in the District Court
for the Fourth Judicial District of the State of California, to
recover certain hay cut from lands in Solano County, to which
the plaintiffs claimed title in consequence of rights alleged to
have been acquired under an act of Congress entitled "An act
to grant the right of pre-emption to certain purchasers on
the 'Soscol Ranch,' in the State of California," approved
March 3, 1863. 12 Stat. 808. The plaintiff having died pendente lite, his executors were substituted in his stead. The
defendants denied the plaintiff's title, and averred that they,
in good faith and under color of title, held the land adversely
to his pretended claim. The jury found a verdict in favor of

ATHERTON ET AL.

v.

FOWLER ET AL.

[Sup. ot.

the defendants for the value of the hay in controversy, with
interest thereon. Judgment was for the defendants for $13,896.43. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State, which adjudged "that the judgment be reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to the court below to proceed to try the cause anew, unless, within twenty days after the
filing of the remittitur in the court below, the defendants shall
file with the clerk of that court a written consent that the judgment be modified by striking out the damages therein awarded,
and inserting, in lieu thereof, the sum of $8,989; and, upon
such consent being filed, it is ordered that the judgment be
modified accordingly, and also that it be made payable in
due course of administration." The written consent of the defendants having been filed in the District Court, the judgment
of that court was modified as ordered by the Supreme Court.
On the fourteenth day of July, 1875, the plaintiffs sued out
this writ of error, directed to the Supreme Court of California.
The writ bears test on the day of its issue, but contains no
return day.
Mr. l. A. Wheaton for the defendants in error, in support
of the motion to dismiss.
The State court having decided the case upon principles of
law as recognized and administered in California, and without
reference to the construction or effect of any provision in the
Constitution or any act of Congress, no jurisdiction exists in
this court to review that decision, even though, in some other
aspect of the case, a Federal question might possibly have been
applicable, but upon which the State court did not pass. Insurance Co. v. TYhe Treasurer,11 Wall. 209; Minger v. Missouri,
13 id. 263; West Tennessee Bank v. Citizens' Bank, id. 432;
Caperton v. Bowyer, 14 id. 216; Commercial Bank v. Rochester,
15 id. 639; Marquez v. Bloom, 16 id. 351; Crowell v. Randall,
10 Pet. 397; Parney v. Towle, 1 Black, 351; Boggs v. Mining
Co., 3 Wall. 304; Maxwell v. ANewhold, 18 How. 516; Hoyt v.
Sheldon, 1 Black, 522.
A judgment of the highest court of a State reversing that
of an inferior court, and awarding a venire de novo, is not
a final judgment in the sense in which that term is used in
the statute authorizing a review thereof by this court. Tracy

Oct. 1875.]

ATHERTON ET AL. V. FOWLER E AL.

v. Holcombe, 24 How. 426; Miners' Bank v. United States,
5 id. 214; Brown v. Union Bank, 4 id. 465; Weston v. Charlestown, 2 Pet. 449; Winn v. Jackson, 12 Wheat. 135; Houston
v. Morse, 3 id. 434.

A judgment remanding a case to a lower court for further
proceedings in accordance -with the opinion is not such a final
judgment. Pepper v. Dunlap, 5 How. 52; Moore v. Bobbins,
18 Wall. 588; St. ('lairv. Livingston, id. 628; Parcelsv. John-

8on, 20 id. 654.
If there has been any final judgment in this case, it must
have been rendered by the District Court; to which, therefore, the writ of error should have issued. Gelston v. Hoyt,
3 Wheat. 304; Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 457; Miller v. Joseph, 17 Wall. 655; 3eGuire v. The Commonwealth, 3 id. 386.
Under the Judiciary Act of 1792, a writ made returnable on
any other day than the first day of the next ensuing term -was
held void. Conklin's Treatise, p. 635; Insurance Co. v. Mordecai, 21 How. 200; Porterv. Foley, id. 393; Agricultural Co.
v. Pierce County, 6 Wall. 246; Rules of S. C., No. 8, Subdi-

vision 5.
It was held, prior to the act of June 1, 1872, that this court
had no power to amend the writ in this respect. Vide cases
cited above. Hodge v. Milliams, 22 How. 88; City of Wash
ington v. Denison, 6 Wall. 496; Hampton v. Rouse, 15 id. 684.

The date of test of the -writ is not a day of a term of this
court. No application to amend being made, it is ground for
dismissal. Conklin's Treatise, p. 634; 2 Abbott's U. S. Practice, p. 251.
Mr. Montgomery Blair, contra.

AI. CHE JuSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The plaintiffs in error claimed title to the hay in controversy
in this case in consequence of alleged rights acquired under the
act of Congress, passed March 3, 1863, entitled "An act to
grant the right of pre-emption to certain purchasers on the
ISoscol Ranch,' in the State of California." 12 Stat. 808. The
decision of the State court -was against their title. This presents
a question within the jurisdiction of this court.
VOL. I.

10

ATHERTON ET AL. v. FOWLER ET AL.

[Sul). Ct.

The judgment of the Supreme Court is the final judgment
in the suit, within the meaning of the act of Congress. Rev.
Stat. 709. It reversed and modified the judgment below, and
did n.ot permit further proceedings in the inferior court, if the
defendants consented to the modification directed as to the
amount of damages. This consent has been given, as the record
shows; and the judgment of the court below is the judgmenrt
which the Supreme Court directed that court to enter and carry
into execution. The litigation was ended by the decision of
the Supreme Court. No discretion was left in the court below
if the required consent was given.
The writ of error was properly directed to the Supreme
Court of the State. We can only re-examine the "final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest court of a State in
which a decision in the suit could be had." Rev. Stat. sect.
709. For the purposes of such a re-examination, we require
the record upon which the judgment or decree was given, and
we send out our writ of error to bring it here. That writ is to
operate on the court having the record, and not upon the parties.
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 410. The citation goes to the
parties, and brings them before us. The writ of error, therefore, is properly "directed to the court which holds the proceedings as part of its own records, and exercises judicial power
over them." Hunt v. Palas, 4 How. 590. If the highest
court of the State retains the record, the -writ should go there,
as that court can best certify to us the proceedings upon which
it has acted and given judgment. As it is the judgment of the
highest court that we are to re-examine, we should, if we can,
deal directly with that court, and through it, if necessary, upon
the inferior tribunals. It is, perhaps, safe to say that a writ
will never be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, because it is
directed to the highest court in which a decision was and could
be had. We may not be able in all cases to reach the record by
such a writ, and may be compelled to send out another to a different court before our object can be accomplished; but that is
no ground for dismissal. We have the right to send there to
see if we can obtain what we want.
But, hi some of the States, - as, for instance, New York and
Massachusetts, - the practice is for the highest court, after its

Oct. 1875.]

ATEmToN ET AL. v. FowLER ET AL.

judgmenC has been pronounced, to send the record and the
judgment to the inferior court, where they thereafter remain.
If in such a case our writ should be sent to the highest court,
that court might with truth return that it had no record
of its proceedings, and, therefore, could not comply with our
demand. Upon the receipt of such a return, we should be
compelled to send another writ to the court having the record
in its possession. It has been so expressly decided in aelston v.
Iloyt, 3 Wheat. 246, and HfeGuire v. Commonwealth, 3 Wall.
382. So, too, if we are in any way judicially informed, that,
under the laws and practice of a State, the highest court is not
the custodian of its own records, we may send to the highest
court., and seek through its instrumentality to obtain the record
we require from the inferior court having it in keeping, or we
may call directly upon the inferior court itself. But if the
highest court is the legal custodian of its own records, and
actually retains them, we can only send there. This, we think,
has always been the rule of practice, notwithstanding Mr.
Justice Story, in delivering the opinion of the court in Celston
v. Hoyt, said that the writ might be "directed to either court
in which the record and judgment on which it is to act may be
found." 3 Wheat. 304. This was in a case where the judgment had been rendered in the Court of Appeals of New York,
but, after its rendition, the record with the judgment had been
sent down to the inferior court, there to be preserved in accordance with the law and uniform practice in that State. Strictly
speaking, the record cannot be found in two courts at the same
time. The original record may be in one and a copy in another,
or one court may have the record and another the means of
making one precisely the same in all respects; but the record
proper can only be in one place at the same time.
In Webster v. Reid, 11 How. 457, the general language of
Mr. Justice Story in (Jelstonv. Hoyt was somewhat limited; for,
in stating the ruling of the court in that case, Mr. Justice McLean gives it as follows: "The writ of error may be directed
to any court in which the record and judgment on which it is
to act may be found; and, if the record has been remitted by
the highest court to another court in the State, it may be
brought by writ of error from that court." To the same effect

ATHERTON ET AL. v. FOWLER ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

is McGuire v. Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 386. That was a case
from Massachusetts. The suit was pending in the Superior
Court of that State; and after verdict, but before judgment,
certain exceptions were sent up to the Supreme Judicial Court
for its opinion. That court subsequently sent down its rescript
overruling the exceptions; and thereupon final judgment was
entered in the Superior Court upon the verdict. This was according to the law and practice in Massachusetts, and the effect
was to leave the entire record in the inferior court. Upon this
state of facts, this court held that the judgment in that case
was the judgment of the Superior Court, and that that court
was the highest court in which the decision of the suit could be
had, and, therefore, the only court to which the writ could go.
But it was also held, that if the Supreme Judicial Court had
rendered the final judgment, and had sent the judgment to the
Superior Court, and with the judgment had sent the record, the
direction of the writ to the Superior Court would have been
proper. Green v. Van Buskirk, 3 Wall. 450, was also a New
York case, and is to be considered in the light of the peculiar
practice in that State. The record had been sent from the
Court of Appeals to the Supreme Court.
The rule may, therefore, be stated to be, that if the highest
court has, after judgment, sent its record and judgment in accordance with the law of the State to an inferior court for safe
keeping, and no longer has them in its own possession, we may
send our writ either to the highest court or to the inferior court.
If the highest court can and will, in obedience to the requirement of the writ, procure a return of the record and judgment
from the inferior court, and send them to us, no writ need go to
the inferior court; but, if it fails to do this, we may ourselves
send direct to the court having the record in its custody and
under its control. So, too, if we know that the record is in the
possession of the inferior court, and not in the highest court, we
may send there without first calling upon the highest court;
but if the law requires the highest court to retain its own
records, and they are not in practice sent down to the inferior
court, our writ can only go to the highest court. That court,
being the only custodian of its own records, is alone authorized
to certify them to us.

Oct. 1875.]

RorEu v. SIMON ET AL.

In this case, our writ went to the Supreme Court; and, in
obedience to its command, that court has sent us its record.
There is now no need of a further writ, even if the practice in
California permitted the transmission of records from the Supreme Court to the inferior courts. But such, as we understand, i3 not the practice. The Supreme Court is there the sole
custodian of its own records. Cases go there upon a transcript
of the proceedings in the court below. This transcript is retained in the Supreme Court, and is the foundation of the proceedings there. The transcript is without doubt a copy of the
proceedings in the court below; but that does not make the
record below the record above. The court above acts only
upon the transcript, and from that its record is made.
The writ of error may be amended under the authority of
sect. 1005 of the Rev. Stat. by inserting the proper return day.
It is no objection to the writ that it bears test on the day of
its issue. Rev. Stat. sect. 912.
Mre motion to dismiss is denied.

ROEME_

v. SIMoN ET AL.

1. This court cannot, after an appeal in equity, receive new evidence; nor can it
upon motion set aside a decree of the court below, and grant a rehearing.
2. The court below can grant a rehearing during the term at which the final
decree was rendered, but not thereafter; and an application therefor must
be addressed to that court.
3. Should the court below, after the record has been filed here, request a return
thereof for the purpose of further proceedings in the cause, this court would,
in a proper case and under suitable restrictions, make the necessary order.

APPErAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
On motion. The bill filed in this case was for an alleged
infringement of letters-patent, No. 56,801, granted to the appellant, bearing date July 31, 1866, for improvements in travellingbags, and prayed for an account and an injunction.
Upon a final hearing, a decree was rendered at the March
Term of said Circuit Court, 1874, dismissing the bill.

