UNITED STATES V. KIRBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

first Court of Claims, and heard and decided there, and the
amount found due paid by the g6vernment. Now, we suppose that it would be an error in the Court of Claims, a at
present constituted, with power to render judgment against
the government, to hear and revise the allowance of a claim
already heard and decided upon by Congress, or by the
former Court of Claims, and payment made, even if the
claimant was not satisfied. And, we think, it is equally
error, in the present case, upon the same principle and fbr
the'same reasons.
Indeed, unless the claimant is barred, under the circumstances stated, it would be difficult for the government to
determine when there would be an end to claims put forth
against it, as there is no statute of limitations, of which we
are aware, applicable to them before this court.
The judgment of the court is, that the decree must be
REVERSED,

the cause remanded, with directions to enter a

decree
DISMISSING THE PETITION.

UNITED STATES-V. KIRBY.

1. The temporary detention of the mail, caused by the arrest of its carrier
upon a bench warrant, issued by a State court, of competent jurikdiction, upon an indictment found therein for murder, is not an obstruction
or retarding of the passage of the mail, or of its carrier, within the

meaning of the ninth section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1825,
which provides "that, if any person shall knowingly and wilfully obstruct or retard the passage of the mail, or of any driver or carrier, or
of any horse or carriage carrying the same, he shall, upon conviction,

for every such offence pay a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars."
2. That goction applies only to those who know that the act, porformd by

3.

them, obstructing or retarding the passage of the mail, or of its carrier,
will have that effect, and perform them with the intention, that such
shall be their operation.
When the acts which create the obstruction are in themselves unlawful,
the intention to obstruct will be imputed to their author, although to

attain ether ends may have been his primary object.

The statute has

Dec. 1868.]

U16TED 'STATES V.

KIRBY.

Statement of the case.
no reference to acts ]awf'ul in themselves, from the execution of which
a temporary delay to the mails unavoidably follows.
4. Though all persons in the public service are exempt, as a matter of public
policy, from arrest upon civil process while thus engaged; the rule is
different when the process is issued upon t charge of felony. Every
officer of the United States is responsible to the legal tribunals of the
country, and to the ordinaxy processes for his arrest and detention when
accused of felony, in the forms prescribed by the Constitution and laws.
5. All laws should receive a sensible construction. General terms should
be so limited in their application as not to lead, to injustice, oppression,
or an absurd consequence, and it will always be presumed that the legislature intended exceptions to its language, which would avoid results of
this character.

TME defendants were indicted for knowingly and wilfully
obstructing and retarding the passage of the mail and of a
mail ,carrier, in the District Court for the District of Kentucky. The case was certified to the Circuit Court for that
district.
The indictment was founded upon the ninth section of the
act of Congress, of March 3; 1825, "to reduce into one the
several acts establishing and regulating the post office department," which provides "that, if any person shall knowingly and wilfully obstruct or retard the passage of the
miail, or of any driver or carrief, or of any horse or carriage
carrying the same, he shall, upon conviction, for every such
offence, pay a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars; and
if aily ferryman shall, by wilful negligence, or refusal to
transport the mail across the ferry, delay the same, he shall
forfeit and pay, for every ten minutes that the same shall be
so delayed, a sum not exceeding ten dollars."*
The indictmenf contained four counts, and charged the
derendants with knowingly and wilfully obstructing the passage of the mail of the United States in the district of Kentucky, on the first of February, 1867, contrary to the act of
Congress; and with knowingly and wilfully obstructing and
retarding at the same time in that district, the passage of
oile Farris, a -arrier of the mail, while engaged in the performance of I is duty; and with knowingly and wilfully re4 Stat. at Large, 104.

UNITED STATES V. KIRBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the government.

tar-ding at the same time in that district, the passage of the
steamboat General Buell, which was then carrying the mail
of the United States from the city of Louisville, in Kentucky, to the city of Cincinnati, in Ohio.
To this indictment the defendants, among other things,
pleaded specially to the, effect, that at the September Term,
1866, ofthe Circuit Court of Gallatin County, in the State
of Kentucky, which was a court of competent jurisdiction,
two indictments were found by'the grand jury of the county
against the said Farris for murder; that by order of the
court bench warrants were issued upon these indictments,
and placed in the hands of Kirby, one of the defendauts,
who was then sheriff of the county, commanding him to
arrest the said Farris and.bring him before the c3ourt to answer the indictments; that in obedience to these warrants
he arrested Farris, and was accompanied by the other defendants as a posse, who were lawfully summoned to assist
him in effecting the arrest; thatthey entered the steamboat
Buell to make the arrest, and only used such force as was
necessary to accomplish this end; and that they acted without any intent or purpose to obstruct or retard the mail, or
the passage of the steamer. To this plea the district attorney
of the United States demurred, and upon the argument of
the demurrer two questions arose:
First. Whether the arrest of the mail-carrier upon the
bench warrants from the Circuit Court of Kentucky was,
under the circumstances, an obstruction of the mail within
the meaning of the act of Congress.
Second. Whether the arrest was obstructing or retarding
the passage of a carrier of the mail within the meaning )f
that act.
Upon these questions the judges were opposed in opinion,
and the questions were sent to this court upon a certificate
of division.
,r.

Ashton, Assistant Attorney- Ueneral,for the United Stales:

There are authorities which perhaps favor the position of
the government, that the arrest of the carrier of the mail

Dec. 1868.]

DNITED

STATES V. KIRBY.

Opinion of the court.

under the warrant, was an obstruction of the mail and of the
carrier theredf, within the intent and meaning of the act of
Congress. United States v. Barney,* decided by Winchester,
J., in Maryland district, in 1810, is in that direction. The
indictment was under an act in the same words as the act of
1825. The detention was by an innkeeper, under a lien for
thekeeping of the horses employed in carrying the mail; and
the court held that the defendant was not justified. The
court says:
"The statute is a general prohibitory act. It has introduced
no exceptions. The laW does not allow any justification of a
wilful and voluntary act of obstruction to the passage of the
'mail," etc
So in Vnited States v. Harveyt where the indictment (which
was under the act of 1825) was against a constable for arrestin the mail-carrier under a warrant in an action of trespass,
Taney, C. J., held that the mere serving of the warrant would'
not render the party liable; yet "if by serving the warrant
he detained the carrier, he would then be liable."
Contrary, however, to these decisions, is the ruling of Mr.'
Justice Washington in United States v. Hart.4 In that case
it was held that the act of Congress was not to be construed
so as to prevent the arrest of the driver of a carriage in
which the mail is carried,.when he is driving through a
crowded city at an improper rate.
No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
There can be but one answer, in our judgment, to the
questions certified to us. The statute of Congress by its
ternis applies only to persons who "knowingly and wilfully"
obstruct or retard the passage of the mail, or of its carrier;
that is, to those who know that the acts performed will have
3 Hall's American Law Journal, 128.
I Peters's Circuit Court, 390.

t 8 Law Reporter, 77.

UNITED STATES V. KIRBY.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

that effect, and perform them with the intention that such
shall be their operation. When the acts which create the
obstruction are in themselves unlawful, the intention to obstruct will be imputed to their author, although the attainment of other ends may have been his primary object. The
statute has no reference to acts lawful in themselves, from

th'e execution of which a temporairy delay to the mails unavoidably follows. All persons in the public service are exempt, as a matter of public policy, from arrest upou civil
process while thus engaged. Process of that kind can,
therefore, furnish no justification for the arrest of a carrier
of the mail. This is all that is decided by the case of the
United States v. Harvey,* to which we are referred by the
counsel of the government.

The rule is different when the

process is issued upon a charge of felony. No officer or
employee of the United States is placed by his position, or
the services he is called to perform, above responsibility to
the legal tribunals of the'country, and to the ordinary processes for his arrest and detention, when accused of felony,
in the forms prescribed by the Constitution and laws. The
public inconvenience which may occasionally follow from
the temporary delay in the transmission of the mail caused
by the arrest of its carriers upon such charges, is far less
than that which would arise from extending to them the
immunity for which the counsel of the government contends.
Indeed, it may be doubted whether it is competent for Congress to exempt the employees of the United States from
-arreston criminal process from the State courts, when the
crtimes charged against them are not merely mala prohibita,
but are mala in se. But whether legislation of that character
be constitutional or not, no intention to extend such exemption should be attributed to Congress unless clearly manifested by its language. All laws should receive a sensible
construction. General terms should be so limited in their
application as not to lead to injustice, oppression, or an absurd consequence. It will always, therefore, be presumed
* 9 Law Reporter, 77.

Dec. 18138.]

MULLIGAN V, CORBINS.
Statement of the case.

that the legislatuie intended exceptions to its language,
which would avoid results of this character. The reason of
the law in such cases should prevail over its letter.
The common sense of man approves the judgment mentioned by Puffendorf, that the Bolognian law which enacted,
"that whoever drew blood in the streets should be punished
with the utmost severity," did not extend to the surgeon
who opened the vein of a person that fell down in the street
in a fit. The same common sense accepts the ruling, cited
by Plowden, that the statute of 1st Edward II,which enacts
that a prisoner who breaks prison shall be guilty of felony,
does not extend to a prisoner who breaks out when the
prison is on fire--" for he is not to be hanged because he
would not stay to be burnt." And we think that a like
common sense will sanction the ruling we make, that the act
of Congress which punishes the obstruction or retarding of
the passage of the mail, or of its carrier, does not apply to a
case of temporary detention of the mail caused by the arrest
of the carrier upon an indictment for murder.*
The questions certified to us must be answered IN, THE
So ORDERED.
NEGATIVE; and it is
Mr. Justice MILLER, having been absent at the hearing,
took no part in this order.

MULLIGAN V. CORBINS.
A statute of a State releasing I, whatever interest" in certain real estate
may 'rightfully" belong to it, is not a law impairing the obligation
of a contract in a case where an agent of the State, having by contract
with it acquired an interest in ha/f the lot, undertakes to sell and conveys the whole of it. In such case-and on an assumption that the
agent does own one half-the statute will be held to apply to the remaining half alone.
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky; the case
being this:
Solomon Brindley, a free colored man, was the owner, in
' See also United States v. Hart. 1 Peters's Circuit Court, 390.

