Dec. 1868.]

AGAWAM' COMPANY V. JORDAN,

Syllabus.

rately tried,-And one of them,-when upon trial, had proposed
to call the other as a witness, and the court had rejected the
testimony. The question certified was, whether this ruling
was correct. It arose upon motion for new trial, but it was
plainly- a point which must be determined, as of right, before sentence could be pronounced; and the certificate therefore was within the. principle of The United States v. Wilson.
The motion to quash, upon which the question'now-before
us arose, was clearly determinable as a matter of discretion.
It was preliminary in its character, and the denial of the
motion could not finally decide any right of the defendant.
The rule laid down by the elementafy writers* is, that -"a
motion to quash is addressed to the sound discretion of the

court, and if refused, is not a proper subject of exception."
,When made in bebalf of defendants, it is usually refused,
unless in the clearest cases, and 'the grounds of it are left to
be availed of, If available; .upon demurrer or motion in arrest of judgment.
It. is quite clear therefore that we cannot take cognizance,
of the questions certified to us in the present condition of
the case. They may hereafter arige bpon demurrer, or on
motion in arrest, and if the opposition of opinion shall still
exist, can be again presented for consideration here.
At present the case must be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

AGAWAm

OOPANY

V. JORDAN.

1. In a suit in chancery under a patent, evidence of prior knowledge or use
of the thing patented is not admissible, unless the answer contains the
names and places of residence of those alleged to have possessed a prior
knowledge of the thing, and where the same had been used.
2. The defence, "that the patentee fraudulently and surreptitiously obtained
the patent for that which he knew was invented by another," is not a
* 1 Colby's Crim.- Stat. 268 and 269; 1 Anmerican Crim. Law, 518 and

619.

AGAWAM

O0MPANY V. JORDAN.

, [Sup. CL

Statement of the case.
sufficient defence to a charge of infringenient, unless accompanied by
the further allegatiop, that the alleged first inventor was at the time
usiz,g reasonable diligence in adapting and perfecting the invention.
8. The inventor who first perfects a machine, and makes it capable of useful
operation, is entitled to the patent.
4. Where a master workman, employing other people in his service, has conceived the plan of an invention and is engaged in experiments to perfect
it, no suggestions from a person employed by him, not amounting to a
new method or arrangement which in itself is a complete invention, is
sufficient to deprive the employer of the exclusive property in the perfectcd improvement.
6. Letters l.atent of long standing will not be declared invalid upon testimony largely impeached; as ex. gr., where forty persons swear that the
character of the witness for truth and veracity is bad; although very
numerous witnesses on the other hand swear that they never heard his
reputation in that way questioned.
6. On a bill in chancery, for an infringement of a patent, the allegation in
an answer, of sale and public use "1prior to the filing of an application
for-a patent," with the consent and allowance of the inventor, is insufficient, unless it is also alleged in the answer that such sale or use was
more than two years before he applied for a patent.
7. Forbearance to apply for a patent during the progress of experiments,
and until the party has perfected his invention and tested its value by
practical experixngnt, affotds no ground for presumption of abandonment.
9. Where a patent is extended by virtue of a special act of Congress, it is
not necessary to recite in the certificate of extension all the provisos
contained in the act.
9. A patentee claiming under a reissued patent cannot recover damages for
infringements committed antecedently to the date of his reissue.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for Massachusetts, the suit
having been one to restrain the use, by the Agawam WoolIon Company, of a certain machine for manufacturing wool
and other fibrous materials, patented to John Goulding.
The process formerly in use in the production of yarn
from wool, was by a set of carding engines, a billy and a
jenny; a series usually consisting of three carding machines,
comtnn.ily called a first breaker, a second breaker, and a
finisher, onc billy and two jennies, sometimes two double
carding machines being used instead of three single carding
machines.
The wool was fed to the first carding machine, called the
first breaker, on a feed table, and was doffed off the dofir

Dec. 1868.],.

MAwAm COMPANY

V.

JORDAN.

Statement of the case.

of that rmachine by a' ciOnb. The material thus doffed off
was taken to the second carding machine,'called the second
breaker, and was fed-into it in the same manner as in the
first, and upon leaving the doffer, was either wound round
a large cylinder, making what was called a lap or bat, or
dropped 6n the floor. The 'material was then taken to the
third carding machine, and was fed to 'it in the same way,
.and, by a roller and s'lell at tle delivery-end of this machine,
was made into short rolls, which were about as long as, this
machine-was wide. These short rolls were then taken to
the billy, and were spliced together on the apron roll of the'
billy by children, by rubbing the rolls together with their
hands, and were carried forway.d on the billy, after being so
spliced togethei, by the apron roll, which fed them through
the jaws qf the billy to the spindles. The product of the
billy was called roving. This roving was then taken from
the billy and set up on cops to. the jenny, upon which it was
spun into yarn.
As early as 1812, Goulding, born in 1793, the son of a
machinist, and from early years familiar in his father's factory with machines and machinery, sought to improve this
long train of engines, called in their whole series "the
carding machine." He thought'that he could so improve'it
as to produce yarn from wool in a cheaper manner, of better.
quality, and in greater quantity than was 'produced by the
old process. Engaged at different times in Massachusetts, at
Worcester, Halifax, and, lastly, at Dedbam, where, in 1823,
he fixed himself as both a machinist and a manufacturer of
textile fabrics, le onl\ sought, for some years, to improve
the billy; but, as experiments were made by him,he aimed,
finally, at dispensing with the billy entirely, and accomplishing with four machines that which had previously required
the ise of five. His purpose was also to dispense with short
rolls entirely, and get the perpetual or endless roll, and carry
it through its different stages, from the crude wool until it
became finally converted into yarn.
The result of his- experiments and trials,' extending over
A long term of time; and after the use by him of vcry iiiany

AGAWAU COMPANY V. JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the Qase.

devices, was, as he alleged, successful. He dispensed with
the billy entirely; and by processes testified to by many witnesses as invented by him, and by himself so .sworn to be,
obtained a continuous or perpetual roll as the product of
each carding engine; -accomplished a successful mixing of
the wool-as well where the same color was used, as where
different colors were used; dispensed with a large amount
of manual labor, and secured a larger product at half the
expense as compared with the old process, a better and more
uniform roving, and a. better and more uniform quality of
yarn.
Such was his view and his case, as set forth in the bill.
But Goulding's claim to these high merits of invention
were not conceded. There were witnesses also, chiefly one
Cooper, of Concord, New Hampshire, who swore that he
derived great aid from others. Specific conversations and
admissions of Goulding, about the time of the alleged invention, were sworn to by Cooper. But his testimony was
strongly impeached; and relationship, bad feeling, or interest
were shown in others of the witnesses. As to Cooper himself,
forty different persons swore that his general reputation for
truth and veracity was bad. Very numerous ones, however,
swore that they had not heard it called in question. This sort
of testimony covered some hundred pages of the record.
Taken all together, this part of the case, on favorable assumption for the defendant, seemed somewhat thus: After
Goulding came to Dedham, and had been experimenting
there for a considerable time, one Edward Winslow, a blacksmith by trade, but if the testimony in his favor was to be
believed, an ingenious man, came into his service.

Winslow

professed no skill out of his business, but made himself
useful generally in whatever Goulding found it most convenient to set him to do; working generally in iron. He had
no charge of Goulding's machine shop, but was not' unfrequently in it. Goulding himself directed all that was done
about machinery, whether as to making or as t6'altering it.
In j824, Winslow having been to a neighbor's factory, where

Dee. 1868.] "AGAIVAM

COMPANY

V.'JORDA.

587

Statement of the case.

"certain devices, meant to produce long o" endless rolls, and
to serve as receptacles for the rovings, had been introduced
on machinery for spinning yarn, Goulding, who had now
nearly completed his improvemeut, and while he was diligently prosecuting his experiments, asked him what he
thought of them. Winslow replied that the principle of
them was good, but that the agencies employed were bad,
and suggested certain substitutes (a spool and drum) for
them. "You .don't know anything," was Goulding's first
reply. However, upon seeing an experiment, apparently, at
first successful, made at his own mill, on the basis of Winslow's idea, he exclaimed, "Winslow, you have got it, I will
give you $2500 and half of what we can make." But the
experiment broke down in the prbcess of exhibiting it.
Goulding then exclaiming, "Your plan, isn't worth a cent,
Lwould not give a fig for it," left the mill. Upon further
conversation and consideration, Goulding saw merit in Winslow's suggestions, and having'made them practicable by an
addition of his own (the "traverser," whose effect was to wind
the roving evenly on the 6pool), he adopted them (instead
of cans, the far less convqnient agency previously used) as
two items of his far larger improvement. As it turned out
in the result they proved useful.
It appeared, however, and was so assumed by this court,
after a very minute statement* in the terms of art, of many
details of the matter, thdt it was only as an auxiliary part of
Goulding's invention that they were of value, and that they
did not make either the entire invention or any one of its
separate combinations.
Goulding went on continuously engaged in perfecting his
G
improvement, till November, 1826, before the middle of
which month he filed his application for letters patent, and
on the 5th December he received them for the whole combined invention. None of the devices described in his srecifications were new, and the claims were foir combinations
arranged in a manner set forth.
" See it, infra, pp. 598, 603.

588

AOAWAM COMPANY V. JORDAN.

Lup. Ct

Statement of the case.

The patented improvement soon came into universal use,
and worked a revolution, both here and in Europe, in the art
of manufacturing fibrous yarns. It has not been improved,
but remains now what it was when the patent was granted.
The patent granted, as above mentioned, expired December 5, 1849. Goulding desired to make application for its
renewal, but through erroneous information given him by
the Commissioner of Patents, he failed to apply for the extension until too late for the commissioner legally to entertain his application, and the patent expired accordingly as
already stated. Congress finally, and after persistent efforts
by Goulding, passed May 80, 1862, a special act, authorizing
the commissioner to entertain his application for extension as
though it had been made within the time prescribed by law.
This special act contained a proviso,
"That the renewal and extension shall not have the effect, or
be construed, to restrain persons who may be using the machinery
invented by said Goulding at the time of the renewal and extension, thereby authorized for continuing the use of the same, nor
subject them to any claim or damage for having so used the
same."
The patent was extended by the commissioner August 30,
1862. The patent having'been reissued July 29, 1836, was
again reissued in June, 1864, having before this last date become vested in Jordazi, the complainant, to whom the reissue
was made.
I The proviso of the act authorizing a renewal and extension, was not recited in the reissued letters patent. But the
certificate of renewal and extension was made subject, in
express terms, to the proviso contained in the act. In this
condition of things, the Agawam Woollen Company, using
certain machip ery alleged to be the same with that now patented to Jordan, he filed his bill against thein, praying for
injunction, account, and other relief. The bill put specific
and categorical interrogatories in izeference to the fact of infringement. The defendants did not answer the interrogatories as put. They only deniedthe use of any machinery

Dec. 1868.]

.AGAWAM COMPANY V. JORDAN.

Statement of the case.

"in violatio*n and infringement of any rights of the plaintiff,
or that they are using, or have made, or sold, or used any
machines not protected or covered by the proviso in the act
of Congress;" and putting it to the court to say whhther they
should make further answer. The machinery which they
did use, they began to use after the date of the extension (the
company not being incorporated at that date), but before
the surrender and reissue of June, 1864.
With this implied admission of infringement, the answer
put the defence chiefly on four grounds:
First. "This defendant denies that the said Goulding ever
bestowed any ingenuity upon the invention or improvement
mentioned in either of the letters patent aforesaid, and alleges that the improvements therein described, were invented and applied by one Edward Winslow, then of Ded-'
ham, from whom said Goulding first obtained knowledge of
the same, and fraudulenatly and surreptitiously obtained a
patent on the 15th day of December as aforesaid, for that
which he well knew was the invention of said Winslow, at.
and before the application by him for a patent, as set forth
in said bill."
Second. That at the time of Goulding's application for a
patent, the invention had been on sale, and' in public use,
with his consent and allowance, for a long time; and that he
abandoned the same to the public. Sale and public use for
more than two years, prior to the application for a patent, were
not, however, alleged in the answer.
Third. That the certificate on the reissued letters patent
of 1864, was not in conformity with the act of Congress,
and did not contain the limitations or conditions as annexed
to the patent, as extended; and, therefore, that the reissued
patent was void.
Fourth. That the defendant's machinery, although built
subsequently to the date of the extension, yet, having been in.
use before and at the time of the reissuing of that patent in
1864, was within the saving proviso of the act of Congress.

AGAWAM COMPANY V. JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the patent.

The court below decreed for the complainant, and the
case was now here on appeal by the other side.
Mr. Robb, for the appellant-after remarking that nearly
half a century had passed since the events which were be
subject of investigation, occurred; that nearly all of those
who had personal knowledge of them, had been dead many
years; and that, in every patent case, the loss of testimony
affected the defendant more seriously than it did the plaintiff,
since the defendant has upon him the burden of overcoming
the presumption-which the plaintiff derives from his patent
alone- commented on the facts, argding that Winslow was
the undoubted inventor of the spool and drum-most important features of the mechanism patented-and. that ih regard
to these, Gouldiug had no merit.
The efforts at impeachment of Cooper were to be received
(the learned counsel argued) with great distrust. It was
easy to bring men, in almost any case, who would swear
before a commissioner, and from the bias of revenge or
interest, that they would not believe a 'particular witness,
and so to make a record the vehicle of scandal, which would
never have been spoken if the witnesses had been in the
presence of the court, under the restraints of law, when they
told their stories. In this case, of-course, the testimony had
been taken in this private manner. The learned counsel
then contended:
1. That the invention had been in uae for more than two
years, and had been abandoned, as appeared, by the delays
of Goulding in getting a patent; moreover, he had not an
extension until twenty-two years after the expiration of the
6rst patent.
2. That the proviso in the act of Congress was a limitation of the authority vested in the commissioner. The grant
was to be limited "so that it shall not be construed" to vest,
&c. Now by law, as is well known, no extension of a patent
shall be granted by the commissioner after the expiration of

the term for which it was originally issued. Primd facie,
therefore, this patent is .void, and it is only by invoking the

Dec. 1868.]

AGAWAM

COMPANY

V. JORDAN.

591

Argiment in support of the patent.

statute that it can be saved. N~ow, this being a priVate statute, it should be incorporated with, and accompany the exercise of the authority claimed under and by virtue of it.
-3. That by a true interpretation of the act, the defendant's
machinery came within the proviso of the act of Congress.
.Messrs.B. R. Curtis and Stoughton, contra.
The patent is, primd facie evidence that.Goulding was the
original and first inv.entor of the thing patentel.
The answer charges a fraudulent and surreptitious appropriation, by Goulding, of Winslow's inventiop, and fraud is
to.be proved by the party alleging it. To sustain this burden, it is not sulcient for the appellants to prove that Winslow, while a hired workman of
Goulding, suggested mechanical means of carrying some
part or parts of Goulding's plan into effect; he must prove
that the entire plan of the invention, as described by Goulding in
the original letters patent of December 15, 1826, was the sole invention of Winslow, for the answer does not set up a joint
invention by Gouldingand Winslow,, but a several invention
by Winslow, and a fraudulent and surreptitious appropriation ofthe entire invention by Goulding.*
But these principles of law need, not be invoked., There
is no sufficient evidence that Winslow, invented anything.
The attempt is to overturn a title of forty years' standing on
evidence that would not be trustworthy, even if it related to
recent occurrences. To recollect specific language after the
lapse of forty years, is impossible. Conversations are, the
least trustworthy of all kinds of evidence, even when alleged
to be recent; but here, where they are confessed to have occurred upwards of forty years ago, no reliance can be placed
on them.t The facility with which conversations can be
* Pitts v. Hall, 2 Blatchford, 234; Alden -. Dewey, 1 Story, 388, 389;
Dixon v. Moyer, 4 Washington, 71, 72; Teese v. Phelps, McAllister, 48;
Story, J., in Washburn v. Gould, 8 Id. 138; Webster's Patent Cases, J82,
note e; Allen v. Rawson, 1 Manning, Granger & Scott, 574-577; Eyre v.
Potter, 15 Howard, 56.
t Badger v. Badger, 2 Wallace, 87; Pennock v. Dialogue, 4 Washington,
bb8; Alden v. Dewey, 1 Story, 389.

AGAWAM

COMPANf V. JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

either invented or distorted, the necessity of knowing all
that was said, the occurrences which gave rise to the conversations, and the circumstances under which the conversa.
tions ocourred, the inability of human memory to retain the
precise language that was used, the proverbial fact of the
different vei'sions. which different witnesses give even of
recent conversations, the radical change in meaning which
even the slightest transposition of language will sometimes
make, all concur in showing that evidence of them is the
most unsatisfactory testimony upon which a court of justice
can act.
Moreover, forty witnesses have sworn that Cooper's. general reputation for truth is bad. Their testimofiy is affirmative, while all the counter testimony is negative. When we
consider the facility with which bad men, with some good
qualities, can rally friends, in support of their character, it
is not sunprising that many should have appeared to assist
Cooper. In a place as large as Concord, there are undoubtedly men whose characters for veracity are bad, and yet
many witnesses could be produced who never heard their
characters spoken of in respect to veracity. The testimony
here is simply negative, not showing-because some of the
witn.esses have not heard Cooper's character pronounced
bad-that it is not bad, but only showing that they have
not heard it stated to be so. It is impossible, we submit,
for any man's character for truth and veracity to be otherwise than bad, when forty witnesses swear that it is bad,
even if ten times that number should be produced to swear
that they had never heard it questioned.
The remaining grounds of defence have no foundation inthe facts of the case, nor in the law of patents by any possible view of it.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinirn of the court.
Patentees acquire, by virtue of their letters patent, if
properly granted and in due -form, the full and exclusive
right and liberty of making, using, and vending to others
to, be used, their respective inventions for the term of years

Dec. 1868.].,

AGAWAm C6dmtANY v. JORDAN.59

'593,

Opinion of the court:

allowed by law at the time when the letters patent jvwre'
issued. Such exclusive right and liberty may. be held and
enjoyed by the patentee throughout the entire term for
which it is granted; or he may assign the letters patent, :by
an instrument in writing, either as to the whole interest or
any undivided part thereof; *or he may grant aild convey to
another the exclusive right under the patent tb make and
use, and grant to others to make and use, the thing patented,,
within and throughout any specified district.*
Damages may be recovered by an action on the cas4 for
any infringement of that exclusive right and liberty; .orthe
party aggrieved may, in any case, at his election, bring his
suit in.equity and pray for an injunction toprevent the violation "ofthe same; but the express provision is, thiat all
such adtions, suits, and controversies shall be Ioriginally
cognizable, as well in equity as at-law, by the. Circuit Courtof the United States, or any District Court having the
powers and jurisdiction of a Circuit Court.t
Jurisdiction of such cases is exclusive ih the Circuit
Courts, subject to writ of error and appeal to this court, is
that the suit must
provided by law; ,but the requirement is,
be brought in the name of the person or persons ipterested,
whether patentees,. assignees, or as grantees, as" aforesaid,
pf the exclusive right within a specified locality.
Present sfiit was in equity, and was founded on certain
reissued letters patent granted to the corhplainant on the
twenty-eighth of June, 1864, as the assignee, by certain
mesne assignments, of John Gnvldding, who was the original
patentee, and who, as alleged, was the original and first inventor of the improvement. Original patent was granied
December 15th, 1826, for the term of fourteen years, and
was, as alleged, for b new and useful improvement in the
mode of manufacturing wool and other fibrous materials;
but the claims of the specification were defective, and' it was
surrendered on that account, and reissued July 29th, 1886.
for the residue of the original term.
t Id. 123, 124.

5 Stat. at Large, 119, 121.
VOL V1r

38

: Id. 124.

AGA*AM COMPANY V. JORDAN.

[Sup. *Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Representations of the complainant were, that the original
patentee, without any neglect or fault on his part, fiiled to
obtain by the use and sale of the invention a reasonable remuneration fbr his time, ingenuity, and expenses employed
and incurred in perfecting the invention, and introducing
the same into use within the time for which the patent was
originally issued, and that he failed also, by accident and
mistake, to obtain an extension of the patent before the expiration of the original term.
Power of the commissioner to renew and extend the patent
having expired, the allegation was that the original patentee
-applied to Congress, and that Congress, on the thirtieth of
May, 1862, passed an act for his relief. Pursuant to that
authority, the bill of complaint alleged that the commissioner, thereafter, on the, thirtieth of August, in. the same
year, renewed and extended the patent, in due form of law,
for the further term of seven years from and after that date,
subject to the provisions contained in the act-conferring the
authority.
Derivation of the title of the complainant is fully set forth
in the bill of complaint, but it is unnecessary to reproduce
it, as it is not the subject of controversy in this case. Possessed of a full title to the invention by assignments, the
complainant, as such assignee, surrendered the letters patent,
and the commissioner, on the twenty-eighth of June, 1864,
reissued to him the original patent, as extended under the
act of Congress, for the residue of the extended term.
Founded upon those letters patent, the bill of complaint
alleged that the assignor of the complainant was the original
and first inventor of the improvement therein described, and
the charge is that the corporation respondents*, having full
knowledge of the premises, and in violation of the complainant's exclusive rights and privileges, so acquired and
secured, have, since the date of the reissued letters patent,
and without his license or consent, made, used, and sold,
and continue to make, use, and sell, in large numbers, cards,
jacks, and machinery, embracing and containing mechanism
substantially the same in principle, construction, and mode

Dec. 1868.]

AGAWAM COMPANY

V. JORDAN.

595

Opinion of the court.

of opbration as the improvement so acquired and 6wned by
the complainant.
Prayer of the bill of complaint was for an account, and for
an injunction, and for such other and further relief as the
nature and circumstances of the case shall require,
Respondents appeared and filed an answer, and proofs
were taken by both parties, and they. were heard in the
Circuit Court upon bill, answer, replication, and proofs,
and a final decree upon -the merits was rendered for the
complainant, and thereupon the respondents appealed to this
court.
Numerous defences were.set up in the answer, but none
of them will be much considered except such as are now,
urged upon the consideration of the coUrt.
The grounds of defence specially enumerated in thebrief
of the appellants, and urged in argument, are as follows:
1. That the combinations set forth in the several claims of
the patent were first invented by one Edward Winslow, and
that. neither of them was original with the assignor.'of the
complainant.
2. That the invention, at the time the application for the.
original patent was made, had been on' sale and in public
use, with the consent and allowance of the applicant, for
more than two years, and that he had abandoned the same,
to the public.
8. That the reissued letters patent described in the bill of
complaint are void, because they do not contain the limitations and conditions expressed in the extended patent, and
were not issued in conformity with the act of Congress
passed for the relief of the original patentee.
4; That the respondents' machinery; having been in use
before and at the time the patent in this case was granted, is
within the saving clause of the proviso in the said act of
Congress.
I. Exception might well be taken to the first proposition
upon the ground" that it is a departure from the special defence set up. in the answer, unless- it can be admitted as
included in the more genera allegation, denying that the

596

AGAWAM

COMPANY V.

J0RDAN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

assignor of the complainant was 'the original and first inventor of the improvement described in the patent.
Persons, sued as infringers, may plead the general issue in
suits' at l'a', and may prove, as a defence to the charge, if
they-have given the plaintiff thirty days' notice of that de.
fence before the trial, that the patentee was not the original
and first inventor of the thing patented; but the same section which authorizes such a defence pro'ides that whenever
the defendant relies in his defence on the fact of a previous
invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, "he
shall state in his notice of special matter the names and
places of residence of those whom he intends to prove to
have possessed a prior knowledge of the thing, and where
the same had been used."*
Evidence to prove such a defence, in a suit at law, is not
admissible without an antecedent compliance with those conditions, and the settled practice in equity is to require the
respondent, as a condition precedent to such a defence, to
give the complainant substantially the same information in
his answer. Unless the practice were so, the complainant
would often be surprised, as the rule of law is that the letters patent afford a rintafaciepresumption that the patentee
is the original and first inventor of what is therein described
as his improvement, and if the respondent should not be
required to give notice in the answer that proofs would be
,offered to overcome that presumption and establish the opposite conclusion, very great injustice might be done, as the
complainant might rely upon that presumption and fail to
take any countervailing proofs.t
Better opinion is, that the defence embraced in the first
proposition of the respondents, is not admissible under that
allegation in the answer which denies that the assignor of
the complainant was the original and first inventor of the improvement. Such a defence, if recognized at all in this case,
must be admitted under that part of the answer which was
evidently framed for that special purpose.
* Wilton v. Railroad, 1 Wallace, Jr., 195.

t Teese v. Huntingdon, 23 Howard, 10.

I.

Decq, 1868.]

'AGAWIg OQmMPAN

V, JORDA-,.

57'

dpinion of the court,

Substance and effect of those allegations are, that the re-*
spondents deny that the original pateptee ever bestowed any
ingenuity upon the improvements, and they allege that the
same were invented and applied .by one Edward Winslow,.
that the.patentee first derived knowledge' of the inventio'
from that individual, and that the original patented fraudulently and surreptitiously obtained the patent for that which
he well knew was thd invention of his informant.
No exception was taken to the answer in the court belov,
and in that state of "the case the allegations of the answer,
.that the invention Was made by a third person and not by
the assignor of the 'complainant, may be regarded'as a good
defence, but it is quite clear that the charge that the. original
'patentee in thiq case fraudulently and surreptitiously obtiined the patent for 'that.which he well knew was invented
by another, unaccompanied by" the further allegation that
'the alleged ,first inventor was.at the timetrsing reasonable
diligenced in adapting "an'd perfecting the invention, is not
sufficient to defeat 'the patent, and constitutes no defence to.
,,the charge of infringement.*
Viewed in any light the proposition'amounts to The charge
that the invention 'was niade by 'the person therein mentioned, and not by the assignor of.the complainant, and, the
burden to prove -it is on the respondents, not only because
they make the charge, but because the presumption arising
from the letters patent is.the other way.
Application for a patent is requiied to be made to the
commissioner appointed under authority of law, and inas-"
niuch as that officer is empowered to decide upon the merits'
of the application, his decision in granting the patent is presumed to be correct.t
Before proceeding to inquire whether or not that defence
is sustained by the proofs it becomes necessary to examine
specifications and claims of the patent, and to ascertain, by.
a comparison of the mechanism therein described, with the
-

" 5 Stat. at Large, 128; Reed v. Cutter, 1 Story, 599,
-tPitts v. Hall, 2 Blatcbford, 229; Union Sugar Refinery v.Matthiessen,
2 Fisher, 600.

598

AGAWAM COMPANY V. JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

antecedent state of the art, the true nature, character, and
extent of the improvement.
Sets of carding machines, for the production of yarn from
wool, were well known, and in use before the invention of
the original patentee. They usually consisted, besides the
spinning-jenny, of three carding machines, called the first
and second breaker, and the finisher, but they could not be
used to much practical advantage, in connection with the

jenny, without a separate machine, called the billy, for splicing the rolls. Two jennies were often used, instead of one,
in that combination, and in some instances, two double
carding machines were preferred, instead of three single
machines.
Like the still older carding machine, the breaker bad what
was called a feed-table', and the wool, previously prepared
by other means, was placed on that table, and was, by that
means, fed to the carding mechanism, and having passed
through the carding apparatus to the delivery-end of the
machine, was stripped from the device called a doffir, and
fell to the floor. The device fbr stripping the filament from

the doffer was a comb, which constituted a part of the machine. Second breaker was similar in construction to the
first, and the process of feeding and carding was the same,
but the filament from the first breaker constituted the material to be used in the second, instead of using wool prepared

by hand, or from the picker, and the filament when carded
and stripped from the doffer, was wound round a drum.
The method of feeding the material into the carding apparatus of the finisher was also the same, but it was provided
with an additional apparatus, at the delivery-end of the machine, called the roller and shell, which formed the material
into short rolls. Those rolls were about the length of the
card surface of the doffer. They were taken to the billy,
and were there spliced by hand, on the apron of that machine, and, as the apron moved forward, they were fed to the
spindles, and converted into roving, suitable to be spun into
yarn.

Goulding aimed to dispense with the billy altogether, and

Dec*41868.]

'AGAWAM

'COMPANI v.

J

6

RDAN."

Opinion of twe court.

sought to accomplish,'with four machines, what 'had previ- ,
oasly required the use of fl.ve; and the evidence shows, be-'
youd controversy, that his invention enabled manufacturer'
to produce yarn from wool, at.'much less cost, of better
quality, and in-greater'quantity, than was'produced by the
old process. His purpose, also, was to dispense with shbrt
rolls, and to introduce the long or endless roll in itsplace.
Years were spent by him in experiments to accomplish these
purposes, but the result was that he was successful, He dispensed altogether with the billy, and, by a new combination
of old devices, he obtained the endless roll, and so perfected
his machinery that he could use it-sucessfully, from th'e
moment the roving left the deliveyend of the first breaker,
till it was converted into yarn, fit to be man'ufactured into
cloth.

Attempt will not be made to describe the varioui- planis
which he formed, nor the experiments which he tried, as it
would extend the opinion to an unreasonable length. Under
his method, as described, the .wool, as it comes .from the
picker, is placed on the tableof the first breaker, and is fed
to the carding apparatus as befoge, but the sheet of carded
material, when stripped from the doffer, is taken away dn
one side. of the defivery-end of the machine, by means of
two rollers, through a turning-tube, or pipe, to which a slow
rotary movement is given by a band passing from a drunki,
actuated by The machine, and operating upon a pulley affixed'
to the tube. Description is also given of the means by which
the roving or sliver is condensed and wound'round the bobbin, and also of the means by which it is retained in the
proper position, -and made to partake of the rotary movement .communicated to the drum. Particular description is
also given of the means by which the roving may be evenly
wound upon the bobbins, either by carrying it and the drum
•backward and forward, or by passing it between guides,
affixed to a bar, to which a similar movement is communicated.
Next step is, that the bobbins, with the roving, thereon,
twenty in number at least, are placed in a frame or creel, in

600

AGAWAM COMPANY V. JORDAN.

LSup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

order that the roving may be fed to the second carding machine, and guided into it, between certain dividing pins, but
it is taken away at the delivery-end, in a single roving, and
by the same means as from the first machine.
Principal object in passing the material through the second
breaker is, that it may be more completely mixed, so that
every part of the roving will be of the same fineness. Third
operation is, that the bobbins of roving, as delivered and
wound in the second breaker, are placed in a frame or creel,
similar to that before described, but each roving is now to
be kept separate, and certain blocks are provided for that
purpose, made broader in front than behind, so that each
roving shall preserve its proper situation, without mingling
with those adjacent to it, during the operation of carding,
and also that it may finally reach its proper place upon the
delivering cards.
The feeding of the material into the carding apparatus of
the finisher is accomplished in the same way as before described, but the mechanism for carding, and for delivering
the roving, is more complex, and widely different. Two delivering cylinders are constructed, placed one above the other,
surrounded with wire card, in strips, with uncovered spaces
of equal width, and so arranged that the uncovered spaces on
one cyliudershall correspond with the strips of wire card on
the other, for carding the separate rovings as they are fed
into the carding apparatus. Different mechanism is also provided for removing the carded material from the delivering
cylinders, which is accomplished by the rotary action of the
tubes upon such material, by which the several filaments, as
they are delivered, are formed into a loose continuous roving,
which is guided between certain pins, and passed through
certain rollers, in order to give the roving a sufficient coherence before it is wound on to the bobbins, to be used in the
jenny.
Means for slightly twisting the roving as it leaves the
finisher are also described, and the directions are that the
guides of the finisher must -have a lateral motion backward
and forward, so that each roving may be regularly laid side by

Dec. 1868.]

LGAWAM CfQMPANY V. ,JORDAN.

60-1

Opinion.of the court.

sido, within its own proper limits, and the Aevices to accomplish that function are fully described. Modifications'were
also made by the inventor in the devices- of the ccvdiug ap.
paratus of the finisher, and also in thd apparatus for'lelivering the roving in the third operation, and for winding Jt
on to the bobbiis preparatory to their transfer to the jenny
where' the roving is spun into yarn. Those modifications of
old machinery are minutely described in the specification,
and it is obvious that they. are of great value in accompliihing the final result, and- that 'theyconstitute some of the
main features of the invention.
'Changes were also made in some of the, devices of tlie
jenny, and also in their arrangement and mode of operation
as compared with prior machines, and those alterations also
are so clearly described ai' to constitute a full compliance
with the sixth section of the patent act. Substitutes. are.
suggested for' many of the described devices' but it is not
practicable to enter into those details. Separate parts of the,
machinery, 'as used in the severaf combinations, \ate not
claimed by the patentee. Omitting redundant words. the
claims of the reissued patdnt are to the effect following :
First. I olaim-in combination the following sets, of apparatus making up A machine, namely: 1. A bobbin-stand or
creel. 2. Bobbips on which roving may bewound. 8. Guides
or pins. 4. A catding machine. 5. Condensing .and drawing-off 'apparatus. 6. Winding apparatus, whereby rovings'
may befed to a carding machine, carded, condensed, drawn'
off and wound again'in a condensed state, substantially in
the manner herein set forth.
Second. I clai m the feed rollers of a carding 'machine, in
combination with bobbins and proper stan4s therefor, and
g'uides or pins whereby slivers or, rovings may be fed to be
carded by mechanism subrstantially such as herein described.
Third. I claim a delivering cylinder of a carding machine,
in combination with apparatus for drawing off, condensing'
or twisting and winding carded filaments, by apparatus substantially such as herein described.
Lastly. I claim a mule or spinning-frame, proyided with

AGA*AM

COMPANY V. JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinidn of the court.

spindles hiounted on a carriage, and with jaws or their
equivalents for retaining roving in combination with bobbins, whose axes are parallel, or nearly so, with the line of
spindles, and rest upon drums revolving to unwind .the bobbins substantially as herein set forth.
Careful attention to the description of the invention and
the claims of the patent, will enable the parties interested to
comprehend the exact nature of the issue involved in the
first defence presented by the respondents. Purport of that
defence is, that the invention was made by Edward Winslow, and not by the assignor of the complainant. The settled rule of law is, that whoever first perfects a machine is
entitled to the patent, and is the real inventor, although
others may have previously had the idea and made some
experiments towards putting it in practice. He is the inventor and is entitled to the patent who first brought the
machine to perfection and made it capable of useful operation.*
No one is entitled to a patent for that which he did not
invent unless he can show a legal title to the same from the
inventor or by operation of law; but where a person has
discovered an improved principle in a machine, manufacture,
or composition of matter, and employs other persons to assist
him in carrying out that principle, and they, in the course
of experiments arising from that employment, make valuable discoveries ancillary to the plan and preconceived design of the employer, such suggested improvements are in
general to be regarded as the property of the party who didcovered the original improved principle, and may be embodied in his patent as a part of his invention.
Suggestions from another, made during the progress of
such experiments, in order that they may be sufficient to
defeat a patent subsequently issued, must have embraced the
plan of the improvement, and must have furnished such information to the person to whom the communication was
made that it would have enabled an ordinary mechanfe,
* Washburn et al. v. Gould, 3 Story, 133.

Dec. 1868.]

AGAWAM COMPANY

V.. JORDANr.

Opinion of the court.

without the exercise of any ingenuity and speeial skill on
-his part, to construct and pnt the improvement in successful"
operation.
Persons employed, as much as employers, are entitled to
their own independent inventions, but where the employer
has conceived the plan. of an invention and is engaged in
experiments to perfect it, no suggestions 'from an employee,
not amounting ,to a new method or arrangement, which, in
itself is a complete invention, is sufficient to deprive, the
employer of the exclusive property in the' perfected i*mprovement. But where the suggestions go to make up a
complete and perfect mahin6, embracing the substance 6f
all that is embodied in the patent subsequently issued to the'
party to whom the suggestions were made, the patent. is iiivalid, because the real invention or discovery belonged to
another.*
. Guided by these well-established principles, the first inquiry is, wha was actually done by the person who, as alleged by the respondents, was the real inventor of what is
described in the reissued letters patent? They do not pre-'
tend that he invented or. even suggested the entire invention,
nor all of the several elements embrac'ed in any one of the
separate combinations, as expressed in the claims 6f the patent; and if they did, it could not for a moment be sustainegI,
as it finds no support whatever in the evidence. None ofthe devices described in the specifications are new, but the
claims of the phtent are for the several combinations of the'
described elements arranged in the manner set-forth, and for
the purpose of working out the described results.
Regarded in that light, it is clear that the concession' thatthe person named did not invent nor suggest the entire invetition, nor any one of the separate combinations, is equivjlent to an abandonment of the proposition under consideration, as it is clear to a demonstration that nothing short of
that averment can -be a valid defence. Respondents do not
* Pitts v. Hall, 2 Blatchford, 234; Allen v. Rawson, 1 Maining. Gran-er
& Scott, 574; Alden v. Dewey, 1 Story, 338; 1 Webster's Patent Cases, 182,note v Curtis on Patents, 3d ed. 99; Reed v. Cutter, 1 Stcry, 599.

AGAWAM COMPANY V. JORDAN.

[sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

allege in the answer that the person named was a joint inventor with the original patentee, but the allegation is that
'he made the invention, and they deny that the assignor of
Ihe complainant ever bestowed any ingenuity upon what is
described in the letters patent as his improvement. Such a
aefence cannot be successful unless it is proved, as common
justice would forbid that any partial aid rendered under such
circumstances, during the progress of experiments in perfecting the improvement, should enable the person rendering
the aid to appropriate to himself the entire result of the imgenuity and toil of the originator, or put it in, the power of
any subsequent infringer to defeat the patent under the plea
that the invention was made by the assistant and not by the
originator of the plan.
The evidence shows that the original patentee was born in
1798, and that he commenced working on machinery in his
youth, while he was with his father, and that, as early as the
year 1812, he went into the employment of certain machinists,
residing at Worcester, Massachusetts, who were engaged in
constructing machinery for the manufacture of wool and
cotton. While in their employment, he began experiments
in woollen machinery. Thpse experiments were dii'ected to
th6 object of improving the billy, for the purpose of drawing
out the carriage more accurately, and thereby making botter
work. Several years were spent in that business, but, in
1820, he went to Halifax, in that State, and, while there, he
made numerous experiments to get rid of the billy entirely,
and to dispense with short rolls, and substitute long rolls in
their place. He remained there three years, and, during
that time, he was constantly engaged in experiments to accomplish those objects. In the spring of 1823 he moved to
Dedham, in the same State, and there hired a mill, and en,gaged in the manufacture of broadcloth, and also carried on
the machine business, and the witness also state's that h then
prosecuted his experiments on a l4rge scale.
Cans were used as a receptacle for the rovings, delivered
from the doffers, before the drawing-off and winding apparatus, described in the patent, was invented. Rovings, be-

Dec.186.]

.AGAWA'm 'CoMPANY V. JORDAN.

605

Opinion of thc)court.

fore that invention, were spun from cans, instead of being
wound upon, and spun fr6m, spools or bobbius. Considerable importance is attached to the new method, as it was
largely by that means that the use of the endless roving was
made practical, and that the difficulty prdduced tly the kinking of the roving, incident to the use of the cans, was overcome.
Theory of the respondents is, that the new method of.a4complishing that function was inventd by Edward Wi.inslow-, but their witness, John D. Cooper, only testifies that he
made or suggested thb spool and drum, which are niot the
only elements of that apparatus.- -Unaccompanied by ,tle
'traverser, they would, perhaps, be better -than the cans,,but
it is clear that the apparatus .would be incbmplete without
that device, as it is by that means that the bobbins are evenly
woundwitfl the roving.
Testimony of that wifness is, that he first suggested to
Winslow that the roving must be wound on a'spool, else they
never could make good yarn, and he proceeds to state that
they procured. some pasteboard, and that Winslow made a
pattern.for a spool and drum from that material. Explanations, in detail, are given by the witness, of the several steps.
taken by them in accomplishing the change in the apparatus,
and the witness state' that the priginal patentee never saw
the spool and drum until he came into the mill and 'saw
those devices in the machine.. Argument fbr the respondents is, that the spool and drum were invented by that party
while he was in the employment of the original patentee,
but the complainant denies the theory of fact involvea ih
the proposition, and insists that the statement- of the wit.ness are untrue, and--that he is not entitled to credit. Further statement of the Witness is, that the improvement, as
soon as it was perfected, was applied to all the carding and
spinning machilnes in the mill; and that the mills, so adjustea,
as to embrace that improvement, were put in successful dperation during the summer and auttimn of that year.
Two answersare made by the complainant to the defence
founded'on that testimony, both of which are sustained by

AGAWAM

COMPANY V. JORDAN.

[SUP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the court. 1. Suppose the testimony of the witness to be all
true, the domplainaat coiitends that it is not sufficiently comprehensive to support the allegations of the answer, nor even
to sapport the proposition presented in the brief of the respondents. Taken in the strongest view for the respondents,
the testimony merely shows that Winslow, or the witness
Cooper, or both together, after the originator of the plan had
nearly completed his great and valuable improvement, and
while he was still prosecuting his experiments with the'utmost diligence, suggested the spool and drum as substitutes
for the cans, and that Winslow actually made those devices,
and,.with the aid of witness, put them into one of the'machines as an experiment. When their employer first examined the arrangement, rude as it was, he expressed great satisfaction with it, but upou sdeing it tried he pronounced it
of no value. Neither of those opinions, however, turned.out
to be quite correct, as, upon further trial, when better adjusted, and by adding the traverser, so that the contrivance
would wind the roving evenly on the spool, it proved to be
a useful auxiliary part of the invention.
Valuable though it was and is, as aiding in the accomplishment of the desired result, it is nevertheless a great
error to regard it as the invention described iu the subsequent patent, or as such a material 'part of the same that it
confers any right upon the party who made the suggestion
to claim to be the inventor, or a joint inventor, of the improvement, or to suppose that the proof of what was done
*by that party can constitute any defence, as against the
owner of the patent, to the charge of infringement.
Second answer to the defence founded on that testimony
is, that the testimony is unreliable, because the witness is
not entitled to credit. Hundreds of pages of the transcript
are filled with proof, introduced either to assail or support
the -credit of that witness; but the court is of the .opinion
that it is not necessary, to enter into those details, as the
decision must be in favor of the appellee, eveni if every word
stated by that witness is taken to be true. Entirely satisficd
with our conclusion upon the merits, we are the- less inclined

Dec. 1868.]

A:GAWAM.

COMPANY V,

JORDTAN.

07

Opinion of the 'court.

to" enterinto those details, as a full analysis of the proofs
within reasonable limits would be impracticable; but it is
proper to say that the proofs have been carefully exanined,
and it is the opinion of the court that the letters patent in
thip,case cannot be held to be -invalid upon such testimony.
I-L Second defence, as tated in argument, is, that the
invention, at the time the application for the original patent
was made,, had been on sale and in public use, with the
consent and allowance" of the applicant, for more than two
years, and that the applicant abandoned the same to the
.public. Abandonment, as set up in, the concluding paragraph of the proposition, is a distinct defence from that set
up in the preceding part of the same proposition, and must
be separately considered.
Sale and public use, for more than two years prior'to the
application for the patent, are not alleged in the answer.
What the.respondents do allege is, that the invention, at the
time the application for a patent was filed, and for a long,
time before, had been on sale and in public use, which,
without more, is not a good defence against the charge of
infringement. On the contrary, the correct rule is that no
patent shall be held to be invalid on account of such sale
and public dse, except on proof that the invention was on
sale and in public use more than two years before the application therefor was filed in the Patent Office.*
Evidence to show that the invention of the original patentee, as' finally perfected, was on sale and in public use
more than two years before he applied for a patent is entirely wanting, and if such -evidence was offered, it could
not be admitted under the pleadings, as no such defence is
set up in the answer.f
Undoubtedly an inventor may abanc on his invention, and
surrender or dedicate it to the public; but mere forl'darance
to apply for a patent during the progress of experiments,
and until the- party has perfected h's invention and tested
* 5 Stat at Large, 854 McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 ,fowaid, 209; Stimpson
v. Railroad, 4Id. 380.
t Foster v. Goddard, 1 Black, 518

AG4WAM 'COMPANY

V.

JORDAN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

its value by actual- practice, affords no just grounds for afiy
such -presumption.*
Application for w.patent in this case was probably filed in
the Patent Office before the middle of November, 1826, and
the proofs are f'ull
and satisfactory to the court that the inventor, up to that time, was -constantly engaged in perfecting
his improvements, and in making the necessary preparations
to apply for a patent.

III. Third defence is, that the reissued letters patent are
void, because they were not issued in confopmity with the
act of.Congress relating to that subject. Omissibn of the
original, patentee seasonably to apply for an extension of his
patent was occasioned through erroneous information given
to him by the commissioner, and not from any negligence
or fault of his own.

Acting upon informationl from that

source, the invbntor did not file his application until ii was
too"late to give the notices as required'by law, and the time
tbr presenting such an application having expired, the commissioner had no power to grant his request.. Deprived of
any legal remedy under the general laws for the protection
of inventors, he applied to Congress, an~d on the thirtieth
of May, 1862, Congress passed an act for his relief.t
By-the terms of that act he was authorized to apply to the
commissioner for a renewal and extension of the letters
,patent, previously granted to him for the term of seven years
from the time of such renewal and extension, and the commissioner was empowered to grant such renewal and extension, or to withhold the same Under the then existing laws,
'in the same manner as if'the application therefor had been
seasonably made. Annexed to the body of the act is a proviso, that such renewal and extension shall not have the
effect or .be construed to restrain persons using the invention, at the time of such renewal and extension, from continuing the use of the same, nor to subject them to any
claim or damage for'having used. such machinery.
Kendall et al. v-Winsor, 21 Howard, 322; Pennock et al. v. Dialogue,
2 Peters, 1.
t 12 Stat. at Large. 904

J)ec. 1868.]

AGAWAM COMPANY V. JORDAN.
Opinion of the court.

Objection now taken is, that the said proviso in the act
of Congress is not recited in the reissued letters patent; but
the objection is entirely without merit, as it appears in the
record that the certificate of renewal and extension, as
granted by the commissioner, was made subject in express
terms to the proviso contained in"that act.
Doubts are entertained whether even that was absolutely
necessary; but it is'clear that there is nothing in the proviso
to warrant the conclusion that the form of the extended
patent might not be the same as that in general use, and it
is not even suggested that the form of the extended or rp

issued patent was in any respect different from the corre
sponding established forms of the Patent Office.
IV. Fourth defence is, that the respondent's machiner3
was in use before the patent in this case was granted; bul
it is not alleged that their machinery was in use before the
extended patent was issued, and, therefore, the allegation
affords no defence to the charge of infringement.*
Other defences are mentioned in the brief of the respon
dents; but none zf them were urged in argument, and they
must be considered as abandoned.
V. Infringement is an affirmative allegation made by the
complainant, and the burden of proving it is upon him,
unless it is admitted in the answer. Specific inquiries were
made of the respondents in this case, and they did not satisfactorily answer those interrogatories. Evasive answers,
under such circumstances, if not positively equivaIent to

admissions, afford strong presumptive evidence against the
respondents. Apart from that, however, the ariswer of the
respondents is unsatisfabtory in other respects. They do

not in terms deny that they have used, and are using, the
invention as alleged; but what they do deny is, that they
use any machinery in violation ahd infringement of any
rights of the complainant, or that they are using, or have
made, used, or sold any machinery not protected by- the
* Stimpson v. Railroad, 4 Howard, 880.

VOL. VUI

89

MOR OAN v. TOWN CLERK.

' [Sup. Ct.

Statempnt of the case.

proviso contained iii the act of Congress passed for the
relief of the original patentee.
Clear implication from the answer is, that they bad made
rbachinery such as that described in the letters patent, and
if so, then they are clearly liable as infringers, as they werenot incorporated at the date of the extended patent. Machines made since the patent was extended are not protected
by that proviso, as is plain from its language; but the coniplainant cannot recover damages for any infringement antecedent to the date of the reissued patent, as the extended
patent was surrendered.
Proofs of the complainant to show infringement consist
in a comparison of the machines made by the respondents
with.the mechanism described in the patent, and in the testimony of scientific experts, and, they are so entirely satisfaciory, that it is not deemed necessary to pursue the invesfi.gation.
DECREE AFFIRMED

MORGAN V. TOWN CLERK.
3

] y the law, as settled in Wi~consin, a 'provision in a statute under which a

'town issued its bonds to a railroad, that a tax requisite to pay the interest on thes6 bonds should be levied by the supervisors )f the town, is

not exclusive of a right in the town clerk to levy the tax under a
general statute making it his duty to lay a tax to pay all debts of the
town; a mandamus having issued upder the first-act. hut after efforts to
make it productive, having produced nothing.

to the Circuit Court f r Wisconsin.
In 1853, the legislature of Wisconsin authorized the town
of Beloit to issue its coupon bonds for the benefit of a certain railroad. The-town did issue them accordingly; and a
number' of them, with coupons unpaid, having got in the
hands of one Morgan, he brought suit and obtained judgment, against the town.
The statute which authorized the town to issue the bonds
thus enacted:
ERROR

