LITCHFIELD v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

LITCHFIELD V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Where in an action (under the laws of Iowa) to recover land-the plaintiff
averring that he claims and is entitled to the land, the defendant denying such right of possession but setting up no title in himself-there
has been a reversal in this court and a mandate " to enter judgment for
the defendant below," an entry by the court below that the defendant
"bath right to the lands claimed in the declaration" is erroneous. The
judgment should have been that the plaintiff hath no title. Reversal
and mandate accordingly.

to the Circuit Court for Iowa.
Mr. Litchfield, for the plaintiff in error; Mr. Grant, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The record shows this state of facts: Litchfield, the plaintiff in error, brought an action to recover the land described
in his declaration, averring that he claimed and was entitled
to possession. The defendant, the Railroad Company, denied the allegation of his right of possession. It set up no
title in itself. The case went to trial upon the issue so made,
and ajudgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff. The
Railroad Company brought the case into this court by a writ
of error. The judgment was reversed, and a mandate was
sent to the court whence the cause came, commanding it
"to enter judgment for the defendant below." That court
accordingly entered judgment as follows:
ERROR

"It is therefore ordered and adjudged, that the plaintiff has
no title to the lands in dispute, and that the -plaintiff pay all
costs taxed at $-, and that execution issue therefor."
This was done at the October Term, 1861, of that court.
At the same term, the court, on the motion of Litchfield,
set aside the judgment so entered, and granted him a new
trial. At the October Term, 1863, on his motion, the suit
was dismissed, and a judgment was rendered against him for
costs. At the December Term, 1863, of this court, a writ of
mandamus was issued, whereby the court below was coin-

Dec. 1868.]

LITCHFIELD V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

manded to. vacate the order, granting a new trial, and to
enter a judgment in favor of the Railroad Company, according to the mandate sent down upon the reversal of the judgment. The Circuit Court, at the October Term, 1864, did accordingly vacate the order granting a new trial. The entry,
after doing this, proceeds as follows:
"And it is further considered and adjudged, that the said defondant, the said Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company, hath
right to the lands claimed in the declaration-thatis to say, section

one (1) in township eighty-eight north, in range twenty-nine
(29) west of the fifth principal meridian, and lying in the northern division of the State of Iowa, and to the possession thereof
and that the said defendant recover of the plaintiff the costs in
this cause accrued, tased at and have execution therefor."
Litchfield excepts to this judgment, and insistsThat the right of the Railroad Company to the land in
controversy was never in issue, and never decided;
That the second judgment, in so far as it determines that
the company had such right, is erroneous, and unwarranted
by the mandate and by the writ of mandamus from this
court;
And that it should have been like the first judgment, that
the plaintiff had no title to the land, &c.
We think these objections well taken, and that the judgment entered pursuant to the mandamus should have been
like the prior one, simply in favor of the defendant upon the
issue joined and for the costs. This proceeding is the proper
one to correct the error complained of:* There can be no
doubt of the power of the court to vacate the order of dismissal, and to reinstate the case, independently of the order
contained in the writ' of mandamus.t If there could otherwise be any dou'bt upon the subject, the command of the writ
is conclusive as to the proceedings had in conformity to it.
v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheaton, 854.
t Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Peters, 648; Litch v. Martin, 10 Western Law
Journal. 495; Atkins v. Chilson, 11 Metcalf, 112.
*Martin

272

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

[Sup. (t.

Syllabus.

If, since the commencement of this suit, the plaintiff has
acquired a title to the land, as he insists, that title can be
asserted only in a new action.* After the decision by this
court, the court below had no power but to enter a judgment
according to the mandate, and to carry that judgment into
execution. This was the enid of the case.t
The judgment before us is REVERSED. The cause will be
remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to enter a
judgment
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.
1. The meander-lines run in surveying fractional portions of the public
lands bordering upon navigable rivers, are run, not as boundaries of
the tract, but for the purpose of defining the sinuosities of the banks of
the stream. and as the means of ascertaining the quantity of the land in
the fraction, ana which is to be paid for by the purchaser.
2. Congress, in providing, as it does, in one or more acts relating to the
survey and sale cf public lands bordering upon rivers-that navigable
rivers, within the territory to be surveyed, should be deemed to be publie highways, and that where the opposite banks of any stream, not
navigable, should belong to different persons, the stream and the bed
thereof should become common to both-meant to enact that the common law rules of riparian ownership should apply in the latter case, but
that the title to lands bordering on navigable streams should stop at
the stream, and not come to the mediumfilum.
3. But such riparian proprietors have the same right to construct suitable
landings and wharves, for the convenience of commerce and navigation,
as riparian proprietors on navigable waters, affected by the ebb and flow
of the tide.
4. A government grant of land in Minnesota (9.28 acres), bounded on one
side by the Mississippi, was heid to include a parcel (2.78 acres) four feet
lower than the main body, and which, at very low water, was separated
from it by a slough or channel twenty-eight feet wide, tbrough which no
water flowed, but in which water remained in pools; where, at medium
water, it flowed through the depression, making an island of the parcel;
and where, at high water, the parcel was submerged; the whole place
* McCool v. Smith, 1 Black, 459.

t Ex parte Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co., 1 Wallace, 73.

