KELLY V. OWEN.

rSp

t

Statement of the case.

KELLY V.

OWEN ET AL.

1. The act of Congress of February 10th, 1855, which declares "1that any
woman, who might lawfully be naturalized under the existing laws,
married, or who shall be married to a citizen of the United States,
shall be deemed and taken to be a citizen," confers the privileges of
citizenship upon women married to citizens of the United States, if
they are of the class of persons for whose naturalization the previous
acts of Congress provide.
2. The terms "married," or "1who shall be married," in the act, do not refer
to the time when the ceremony of marriage is celebrated, but to a state
of marriage. They mean that whenever a woman, who under previous
acts might be naturalized, is in a state of marriage to a citizen, she becomes, by that fact, a citizen also. His citizenship, whenever it exists,
confers citizenship upon her.
3. The object of the act was to allow the citizenship of the wife to follow
that of her husband, without the necessity of any application for naturalization on her part.
4. The terms, "who might lawfully be naturalized under the existing laws,"
only limit the application of the law to free white women.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the District of Co-

lumbia.
The case was this:
In 1848, one Miles Kelly, a native of Ireland, emigrated
to the United States, and settled in the District of Columbia. In January, 1853, he married Ellen Duffy, and in
May, 1855, was naturalized. He subsequently acquired
several lots in the city of Washington, and died in March,
1862, sei~ed and possessed of them, intestate and without
i1-,ie; but leaving to survive him, in the United States, the
.aid Ellen, his widow, and two sisters, Ellen Owen and Margaret Kahoe. His widow claimed the residue of his estate,.
after the payment of debts, to the exclusion of his sisters,
Mrs. Owen and Mrs. Kahoe. These set up that they were
entitled to a share of the estate, as the heirs-at-law of the
deceased, and brought the present suit on the equity side of
the Supreme Court of the District, for the sale or partition
of the estate. The court decided in favor of the widow, and
by its-decree gave her the entire estate.

Dec. 1868.]

KELLY V. OWVE11.
Opinion of the court.

From this decree the sisters appealed to the Supreme
Court in bane; and by this latter court the decree was reversed. The widow then appealed to this court.
On the 10th of February, 1855, Congress passed an act,*

entitled "An act to secure the right of citizenship to children of citizens of the United States, born out of the limits
thereof," the second section of which provides, "that any
woman, who might lawfully be naturalized under the existing laws, married, or who shall be married to a citizen of
the United States, shall be deemed and taken to be a citizen."
All the parties, the widow and the two sisters, were aliens
by birth, but they asserted that they became citizens by their
respective marriages. Whether this was so or not, depended
upon the construction given to the section of the act of 1835,
above quoted.
Ellen, the widow, arrived in the United States in 1837,
between the age of fourteen and fifteen, and had remained
in the country ever since.
The sister, Ellen Owen, arrived in 1856, and was married
to Edward Owen in 1861. He was naturalized in 1885.
The sister, Margaret Kahoe, arrived in the United States in
1850, and was married to James Kahoe in 1852. He was
naturalized in 1854.
The case was submitted by Mlessrs. Phillipsand R. . Brent,
for the appellant, and by _lr. T. J. Miller, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, for the sale or partition of certain
real estate, situated within the District of Columbia, of which
Miles Kelly was seized at the time 9 f his death, in March,
1862. The deceased died intestate, and without issue, leaving surviving him, in the United States, a widow, Ellen,
and two sisters,.Elleu Owen and Margaret Kahoe. The
widow claimed the entire estate, after the payment of the
• 10 Stat. at Large, 604.
VOL. vir.

82

KELLY V. OWEN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

debts of the deceased, to the exclusion of the sisters, wh'n
ciaimed that they were entitled, as his heirs-at-law, to a
share of the same. The court rendered a decree in favor
of the widow, and the sisters appealed to the Supreme Court
of the District, where the decree was reversed, the latter
court holding that the sisters were efititled to a share of the
estate.
The case turns upon the construction given to the second
section of the act of Congress of February 10th, 1855, which
declares "that any woman, who might lawfully be naturalized under the existing laws, married, or who shall be married to a citizen of the United States, shall be deemed and
taken to be a citizen."*
As we construe this act, it confers the privileges of citizenship upon women married to citizens of the United States,
if they are of the class of persons for whose naturalization
the previous acts of Congress provide. The terms "married," or "who shall be married," do not refer, in our judgment, to the time when the ceremony of marriage is celebrated, but to a state of marriage. They mean that, whenever
a woman, who under previous acts might be naturalized, is
in a state of marriage to a citizen, whether his citizenship
existed at the passage of the act or subsequently, or before
or after the marriage, she becomes, by that fact, a citizen
also. His citizenship, whenever it exists, confers, under the
act, citizenship upon her. The construction which would
restrict the act to women whose 'husbands, at the time of
marriage, are citizens, would exclude far the greater numnber, forwhose benefit, as we think, the act was intended. [Is
object, in our opinion, was to allow her citizenship to follow
that of her husband, without the necessity of any application
for naturalization on her part; and, if this was the object,
there is no reason for the restriction suggested.
The terms, " who might lawfully be naturalized under
the existing laws," only limit the application of. the law to
free white women. The previous naturalization act., exist* 10 Stat. at Large, 604.

Dec. 1868.]

EWING V.

IHOWARD.

Statement of the case.

ing at the time, only required that the person applying for
its benefits should be "a free white person," and not an
alien enemy.*
A similar construction was given to the act by the Court
of Appeals of New York, in Burton v. Burton,t and is the
one which gives the widest extension to its provisions.
It follows, from these views, that the widow and the two
sisters were citizens of the United States upon the decease
of the intestate husband. The widow and Margaret Kahoe
became such on the naturalization of their respective husbands, and Ellen Owen became such on her marriage. The
sisters are therefore entitled to share with the widow in the
estate of the deceased, and the decree of the Supreme Court
of the District must be
AFFIRMED.

EWING V. HOWARD.
I. Usury being a defence that must be strictly proved, a court will not presume that a note dated on one day for a sum payable with interest from
a day previous was for money first lent on the day of the aate only.
2. -Wherea defendant on suit upon such a note wishes to rely at any time
on usury as a defence, he should raise the question in some form in the
court below. If this is not done the defence cannot be made here.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the Middle District -of

Tennessee.
A statute of Ten aessee, passed in 1860,1 and which by its
terms was to take effect from the 1st of September of that
year, allowed 10 per cent. interest (instead of 6 per cent., a
former rate) to be taken for money lent, provided that such
agreement were expressed "oi the face of the contract,"
whether evidenced by bond, bill, note, or othier written instrument. The same statute, however, provided, thav if
any greater amount of interest than 10 per cent. was paid,
* Act of April 14th, 1802, 2 Stat. at Large, 153.

$ Sessions Act, chap. 41,

1, p. 81.

"t 38 New York, 173.

