UNITED STATES v. RoSENBUI GII.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the oase.

information, at most, presents only a case of the unlawful
conversion of property to the use of the appellants, and that
for redress of such an injury this proceeding by information cannot be sustained; and second, that neither the act
of 1861 nor the act of 1862 contemplated any proceeding, as
in admiralty, where there existed no specific property or proceeds capable of seizure and capture.
IThe decree of the District Court must therefore be REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to the District Court to cause restitution to be made to the appellants
of whatever sum of money they have been compelled to pay
under that decree.

UNITED STATES v. RoSENBURGH.
This court cannot take cognizance, under the Judiciary Act of 1802, of a

division of opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court, upon a
motion to quash an indictment.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Judiciary Act of 1802 provides that whenever any
question shall occur before a Circuit Court, upon which the
opinion of the judges shall be opposed, the point upon which
the disagreement shall happen, may be certified to this court,
and shall by it be fnally decided.
With, this statute in force, one Rosenburgh was indicted
in the court below, for an offence alleged to be within an
act of Congress specified. A motion being made to quash the
indictment, on the ground, among others, that upon the true
interpretation of the act under which the indictment was
made, no offence had been committed, aud that the indictinent was insufficient, a division of opinion on these points
existed between the judges, involving, of course, a division
as to whether the motion to quash ought or ought not to be
granted.

'Dec. 1868.].

581

UNITED STATES V. ROSENBURGH.
Opinion of the court.

The division upon the meaning of the act, and upon the
sufficiency of the indictmelt, being certified, these points
were argued. - But it appearing, also, that they arose upon
a motion to quash, a prelimifhary question-one, as the result proved, which rendered the decision of the other questions unnecessary-was suggested here; the que tion, namely,
.whether this court could, under the above-quoted Judiciary
Act of 1802, take cognizance of a certificate of division upon
*a motion to quash an indictment.
Mr. Evarts, Attorney- General,for the United States.
Mr. B. T. Stoughton, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The general rule undoubtedly is, that this court cannot,
upon a certificate of division of opinion, acquire jurisdiction
of questions relating to matters of pure discretion in the Circuit Court. Thus, it has been held that this court will not
determine upon a certificate of division of opinion, whether
or not a new trial shall be granted,* or whether a plaintiff
in ejectment shall be permitted to enlarge the term in the
demise,t or hny question in any eqtlity cause relating to the
practice in the Circuit Court, and depending on the exercise of sound discretion in the application of the rules which
regulate the course of equity to the circumstances of the particular cause. +
The principles by Which the limit of jurisdiction, upon certificates of division, is determined, were quite fully considered
in the case of -Davisv. Braden,ยง and the conclusion of the
court was, that a division on a motion, to be granted or refused at the discretion of the court, does not present a point
which can be certified under the act of Congress. Upon
this principle, the court in that case refused to take cogniz.
.ance, upon certificate, of the question, whether an action of
* United States v. Daniel, 6 Wheaton" 642.

j Smith v. Vaughan, 10 Peters, 866
$ Packer v. Nixon, Ib. 410.

Ilb. 288.

582

UNITED STATES V. R SENBURGH.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

detinue, founded upon tort, when abated by the death of the
defendant, can be revived against his personal.representatives.
In the opinion then delivered, the court took notice of the
case of The United States v. Wilson,* supposed to be an authority for taking cognizance of the question made by the
motion to revive. In that case the question certified was,
whether a prisoner, convicted of a capital crime, could have
any advantage from a pardon without bringing it judicially
before the court; and it arose upon a motion of the district
attorney for sentence. The court regarded this as a question
going to the merits, and not determinable in the exercise of
imere discretion; and, therefore, held this case not to be an
authority for another, in which the merits weve not involved
in the question certified.
There are other cases in which the court has. taken cognizance of questions directly affecting the merits of the
cause, even though arising, in form, upon motions determinable at discretion. The case of The United States v. Cldeago,t
where the question certified arose on a motion to continue
a temporary injunction, granted by the district judge, until
fiial hearing on. the merits, must be regarded as one of this
character. The ontinuance of the injunction was clearly
matter of discretion with the court; but the question certified involved the right of the United States in the land which
was the subject of the suit, and was one proper for consideration upon the motion for continuance. The court held, though
not unanimously, that the case was exceptional in its character, and that cognizance of the question certified might be
properly taken. It may be doubted whether, in this instance,
the exception made to the general rule was quite warranted
by the principle established in prior decisions.
In the latter case of The United States v. Beid & Clemeitds,t
the point of jurisdiction upon certificate was not noticed.
One of the questions certified seems, however, to have been'
cdearly cognizable here. The defendants had been sepa.
7 Peters, 150.

t 7 Howard, 190.

12 Id 361.

Dec. 1868.]

AGAWAM' COMPANY V. JORDAN,

Syllabus.

rately tried,-And one of them,-when upon trial, had proposed
to call the other as a witness, and the court had rejected the
testimony. The question certified was, whether this ruling
was correct. It arose upon motion for new trial, but it was
plainly- a point which must be determined, as of right, before sentence could be pronounced; and the certificate therefore was within the. principle of The United States v. Wilson.
The motion to quash, upon which the question'now-before
us arose, was clearly determinable as a matter of discretion.
It was preliminary in its character, and the denial of the
motion could not finally decide any right of the defendant.
The rule laid down by the elementafy writers* is, that -"a
motion to quash is addressed to the sound discretion of the

court, and if refused, is not a proper subject of exception."
,When made in bebalf of defendants, it is usually refused,
unless in the clearest cases, and 'the grounds of it are left to
be availed of, If available; .upon demurrer or motion in arrest of judgment.
It. is quite clear therefore that we cannot take cognizance,
of the questions certified to us in the present condition of
the case. They may hereafter arige bpon demurrer, or on
motion in arrest, and if the opposition of opinion shall still
exist, can be again presented for consideration here.
At present the case must be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

AGAWAm

OOPANY

V. JORDAN.

1. In a suit in chancery under a patent, evidence of prior knowledge or use
of the thing patented is not admissible, unless the answer contains the
names and places of residence of those alleged to have possessed a prior
knowledge of the thing, and where the same had been used.
2. The defence, "that the patentee fraudulently and surreptitiously obtained
the patent for that which he knew was invented by another," is not a
* 1 Colby's Crim.- Stat. 268 and 269; 1 Anmerican Crim. Law, 518 and

619.

