Dec. 1868.]

BENBOW V. IOWA CITY.
Stptement of the case.

stands unsupported by the record. Still less'can it be permitted to contradict what the record states t6 have been
done on that subject, at that time.
In the case of United States v. Curry, the same facts almost
precisely were relied on as constituting a second appeal, that
exist in this case, including the misrecital in the citation.
But the court says, "that after very carefully considering
the order, no just construction of itslanguage will authorize
-us to regard it as a second appeal. The citation, which
afterwards issued in Augusty 1847, balls this order an'appeal,
and speaks of it as an appeal granted on the day it bears
date. But this description in the citation cannot change the
meaning of the language used in the order." That is precisely the case before us, and we think the ruling a sound one.
The appeal must, for these reasons, be

DISMISSED.

But, we

may add, that for Anything we have been able 'to discover in
this record, the appellants have the same right-now, whatever
that may be, to take a new appeal, that they had in NVovember, 1865, when the unsuccessful effort was made to revive
the first one.

BENBOW

V.

IOWA CITY.

A return to a mandamus ordering a municipal corporation forthwith to levy
a specific tax upon the taxable property of a city for the year 1865, sufficient to pay a judgment specified, collect the tax and pay the same, or
show cause to fhe contrary by the next term of the court, is not answered
by a return that the defendants, "in obedience to the order of the court,
did proceed to levy a tax of one per cent. upon the taxable property cf
the said city, for the purpose of paying the judgment named in the information, and ot4er claims, and that-the said tax is sufficient in amount
to pay the said judgment and other claims for the payment of'which it'
was levied." The return should have disclosed the whole act constituting the levy, so as to enable the court to determine whether it wassufficient to pay the judgment of the relator., It was also erroneous in returning that the tax was levied to pay this judgment "ahd other claims."

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.

Benbow recovered judgment on the coupons attached'to
certain bonds which Iowa City issued to pay its subscription

BENBOW V. IOWA CI[SY.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

to the stock of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, and having failed by the ordinary process at law to
obtain satisfaction of his judgment, he applied to the Circuit
Court for a mandamus to compel the-mayor and aldermen,
in obedience to the provisions of the ordinance authorizing
the issue of these bonds, to levy and collect the requisite tax
to pay the judgrnec.
The court awarded the writ, and commanded the mayor
and aldermen forthwith to levy a specific tax upon the taxable property of the city, for the year 1865, sufficient to pay
the judgment, interest, and costs; collect the tax and pay
the same, or show cause to the contrary by the next term
of the court.
The defendants made return to the writ, that "in obedience to the order of the court, they did proceed to levy a tax
of one per cent. upon the taxable property of the said city,'
for the purpose of paying the judgment named in the information, and other claims, and that the said tax is sufficient in
amount to pay the said judgment and othe- claims for the
payment of which it was levied."
To this return the relator demurred as insufficient. The
court overruled the demurrer and gave judgment accordingly; and the relator brought the case here.
It was submitted on the record and the brief of Mr. Grant,
for the relator,plaintiff in error.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The sufficiency of the return is the sole question in the
case. The return does not deny the obligation of the writ,
nor offer an excuse for not obeying it, but states to the court
that its command has been obeyed.
Is this true? Th5vrit commanded that the taxes should
not only be levied, '..at collected and paid to the relator,
before the return day of the writ, yet, there is no averment
of their collection and payment, nor an excuse furnished
for non-performance. If it was impossible to collect and
pay the taxes in the time allowed, the return should have
stated facts from which the court could have inferred a legal

Dec. 1868.]

BENBOW V. IOWA CITY.
Opinion of the-court:

excuse for not doing it. On this point the return is wholly
silent.
But the defect in this return reaches much further. In so
far as it avers performance, it does it only in the words of
the writ, which, if nothing more were required, would put
the defendants in place of the court. To make the return
properly responsive to the writ, if was necessary to disclose
the whole act constituting the levy, so as to enable the court
to determine whether it was sufficient to pay the judgment
of the relator.
How could the court decide on the sufficiency of the levy
to'accomplish the purpose of the writ, without knowing the
value of the taxable property of the city? The court should
'not only have been advised of the amount on which the levy
was formed, but as the writ commanded, the year in which
the valuation was made. The return is also defective in
another importdnt point. The mandate was to levy a specific
tax to pay the relator's judgment; the return is, that the tax
was levied to pay the judgment and other claims. The nature
and extent of these claims were not given, and the court had,
therefore, no means of ascertaining whether the fund to be
raised would be sufficient for their discharge, and the satisfaction of the'relator's demand. But, apart from this, there
was no authority to import outside claims into this levy.
The relator had been deprived of his annual interest, because these defendants had neglected to provide for it, as
they were required to do by the ordinance which authorized
the creation of the debt. To compel the performance of this
omitted duty the mandamus was issued, and it did not empower the mayor and aldermen to embarrass the levy which
it directed, by joining with it other obligations against the
city, with which this relator had no concern.
Without pursuing the subject further, enough has been
said to show that the demurrer to the return should have
been sustained.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the
cause remanded with directions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

