COWLES V. MERCER COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

We have no hesitation in saying that the United States,
under the circumstances, had the right to make the treaty
that was made, without consulting plaintiffs, or iucurring
any liability to them. The act of Congress which appropriated the money, only followed the treaty ii securing its payment to the individual Indians, without deduction for agents.
And both the act and the treaty are inconsistent with the
payment of any part of the sum thus appropriated to plaintiffs.
The judgment of the Court of Claims, rejecting the demand, is therefore
AFFIRMED.

COWLES V.

MERCER COUNTY.

I., A municipal corporation created by one State within its own limits may
be sued in the courts of the United States by the citizens of another
State.

2. The statutes of a State limiting the jurisdiction of suits against counties
to Circuit Courts held within such counties can have no application to
courts of the National government.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, the case being thus
A statute of Illinois enacts by one section that, "Each
county established in the State shall be a body politic and
corporate, by the name and style of ' The County of -;'
and by that name may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, defend and be defended aganst, in any court of
record, either in law or equity, or other place where justice
shall be administered ;" and by another, that "All actions,
local or transitory, against any county, may be commenced
and prosecuted to final judgment and execution in the Circuit Court of the county against which the action is brought."*
And the Supreme Court of Illinois has decided that a
county can neither -sue or be sued at common law, independent of legislative provisions, and have construed the
* Revised Laws, 1845,

1, 18.

Dec. 1868.]

COWLES V. MEROER COUNTY.
Argumen t for the plaintiff in error

foregoing sections of the statute to exclude the right .to sue
any county elsewhere than in the Circuit Court of the connty'
sued.*
In this condition of the State law, Cowles, a citizen of
New York, brought suit in the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the INorthern District of Illinois, against the supervisors of Mercer County, Illinois (a board authorized to von;
tfact for the county), upon certain bonds issued by them on
behalf of the county The defendant, relying on the statute
and the interpretation of it by the, highest court of the Stat,
moved to dismiss the -case for want of jurisdiction. The
motion was overruled, and various other defences, alreadyfrequently settled in this court as untenable, having been
also disallowed, judgment was given for the plaintiff below
The case was now brought here on error by the county.
Mr Goudy, for the County, platntiff in. error
So far as the laws of the State of Illinois can control,this
question, Cowles could not sue in the Federal court. Is
there any provision of the Federal Constitution or laws superior to the State rule?
By the Constitation, the judicial power extends to controversies between citizens of different States. The right to
bring a suit against a corporation has been sustained on-ly
upoii zhe theory that the different natural persons who were
members of the corporate body were in fact or -conclusively
presumed to be citizens of the State ereating the corporation. Arid all the cases in which the question ofjurisdiction
was decided by this court were in regard to private cerpbrations, where there was no-limitation to the right to sue
and 'be sued. The question as to whether a municipal oiz
quasi corporation can be sued in a Federal court has never
been decided by this court.
Admit that where a number of the citizens of, a State ai'e
incorporated, and no limitations of the liability to sue are
* Sobuyler Co. v. 3fercer Co., 4 Gilman, 20; Rook Island Co. v. Steele,
31 Illinois, 544, Randolph Co. v. Ralls2 18 Id. 30.

COWLES V. MERCER COUNTY.

[Sup. C3t

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

made in the charter, the intent is presumable to impress
upon the artificial body the same liability that the natural
members were under, yet the State has never parted with
its power to create and establish a corporate body with such
powers and liabilities as it chooses to give. A corporation
is the creature of the law-making power, and has such elements, attributes, powers, rights, and liabilities, as the legislature chooses to give. It may be made with the characteristics of a natural person, or it may be made with the least
conceivable elements of such a character. Its distinguishing
element is perpetuity, but it may consist of one c- many
natural persons, it may have no right to hold real or personal property, it may be destitute of the right to contract,
or to sue or be sued. Is it not competent for the legislative
authority to say that a corporation may be creatbd with
power to contract which can ofily be enforced in a court of
general jurisdiction holden where it exercises its power?
Such a provision is in the nature of a privilege, like that in
England where certain classes can only be sued in specified
counties, and similar instances in this country Does the
mere creation of a corporation necessarily carry with it the
right to make an agreement, and does that subject it to a
liability to suit ii all courts beyond the power of the legislature to restrain?
It is true that the members of a corporation would be lia
ble to be sued on a cause of action against them as natural
persons accrued to the citizen of another State in a Federal
court. But a contract of a corporation with limited powers
is not the obligation of the individual members, it is the
agreement of the artificial person alone.
These observations apply with great force to municipal
corporations. For the purpose of better carrying on the
local government, the people of the county are made a corporate body, but.not with irrevocable powers or vested rights.
It is at all times subject to such changes or repeal as the
legislative power chooses to make.
It-was thought wise to adopt the 1th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States prohibiting all suits agaznsi

Dec. 1868.]'

COWLES- V. MERCER COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

a'State, the same idea doubtless influenced the, legislature
of Illinois in providing that a body of the people of the Stte
organized solely for local government should only be suedin the principal court of their own county This doctrine
does not impose any hardship on any person. The same
statute-which .made a county a corporation, declared that it
could only be sued in the Circuit Court within its own limits.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The record presents but one question which has not been
heretofore fully considered and repeatedly adjudicated. That
question is, whether the board of supervisors of Mercer
County can be sued in the Circuit Court of the UnitedStates by citizens of other States than Illinois. It presents
but little difficulty.
The board of supervisors is a corporation created'by acts
of the legislattire of Illinois,
It has never. been doubted 'that a corporation, all the
members of which reside in the State creating it, is liable to
suit upon its contracts by the citizens of other States; bat
was for many -years much controverted whether an aUe"it
gation in a' declaration that a corporation defendant; was
incorporated by a State other than that of the plaintiffE, and
established within its limits, was a sufficient averment of
jurisdiction. And in all -thecases, prior to 1844, it was held
necessary to aver the requisite citizenship of the corporators.
Then the whole question underwent a thorough, re-examination in the case of The Louisville, Gincinnati, and Charlesicn
Railroad Company v. Letson;* and it was held that a corporation created by the laws of a State, and having its place- of
businoss within that State, must, for the purposes of suit, be
regarded as -acitizen within the meaning of the Constitution
giving jurisdiction founded upon citizenship. This decision
has been since reaffirmed, and must now be taken as the
settled construction of the Constitution.
In the case before us the corporators are all citizens of
* 2 Howard, 497.

NICHOLS V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Illinois, and the corporation is liable to suit withir, the narrowest construction of the Constitution.
But it was argued that counties in Illinois, by the law of
their organization, were exempted from suit elsewhere than
in the Circuit Courts of the county. And this seems to be
the construction given to the statutes concerning counties
by the Supreme Court of Illinois. But that court has never
decided that a county in Illinois is exempted from liability
to suit in National courts. It is unnecessary, therefore, to
consider what would be the effect of such a decision. It is
enough for this case that we find the board of supervisors
to be a corporation authorized to contract for the county.
The power to contract with citizens of other States implies
liability to suit by citizens of other States, and no statute
limitation of suability can defeat a jurisdiction given by the
Constitution. We cannot doubt the constitutional right of
the defendant in error to bring suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States upon the obligations of the County of
Mercer against the plaintiff in error. And we find no error
in the judgment of that court. It must, therefore, be
AFFIRMED.

NICHOLS V. UNITED

STATES.

1. Under the act of Congress of February 26, 1845, relative to the recovery
of duties paid under protest, a written protest, signed by the party, with
a statement of the definite grounds of objection to the duties demanded
and paid, is a condition precedent to a right to sue in any court for their
recovery.2. Cases arising under the Revenue Laws, are not within the jurisdiction of
the Court of Claims.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

An act of Congress of February 26, 1845,* construing a
former act relative to duties paid under protest, says:
"Nor shall any action be maintained against any collector, to
6 Stat. at Large, 727.

