SHEETS V.

[Sup. Ct.

SELDEN.

Statement of the cae.

signees took them subject to every equity in the hands of
the original owfier. *
Particular mention is not made of the defence that the
complainants have an adequate remedy at law, as it is utterly
destitute of merit.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SHEETS V.

SELDEN.

1. The action of an inferior court as to the terms on which it will allow a
complainant to amend a bill in equity to whichdit has sustained a demurrer, is a matter within the discretion of such court, and not open to
examination here on appeal.
2. Where, under a clause of re-entry for non-payment of rant reserved, a
landlord sues in ejectment, in Indiana (in which State a judgment in
ejectment has the same conclusiveness as common law judgments in
other cases), for recovery cf his estate, as forfeited, and a verdict is
found for him, and judgment.given accordingly, the tenant cannot, in
another proceeding, deny the validity of the lease, nor his possession,
nor his obligation to pay the reiits reserved, nor, that the instalment of
rent demanded was due and unpaid.
3. Where, in a lease of a water-power, the lease proyides in a plain way.
and with a specification of the rates for an abatement of rent for'every
failure of water, the tenant c nnot, on a bill by him to enjoin a writ
of.possession by the landlord, after a recovery by him at law for forfeiture
of the estate for non-payment of rent reserved, set up a counter claim
for rep4irs to the water-channel made necessary by the landlord's gross
negligence. - He is confined to the remedy specified in the lease; a covenant that a lessor will make repairs not being to be implied.
4. In such a ease, before he can ask relief from a forfeiture, he should at least
tender the difierence betweea the amount of rents due, and the amount
which he could rightly claim by way of reduction for failure of water.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Indiana.

The State of Indiana, owning a certain canal and its adjacent lands, made two leases of its surplus water; the first
being made, February, 1839, to one Yandes and a certain
Sheets, (this Sheets being the appellant in this case), and
the other made January, 1840, to Sheets alone. Each lease
was for the term of thirty years. Certain rents, payable
semi-annually, on the first of May and November, were
M
Mechanics' Bank v. Railroad Co., 13 New YTork, 699.

Dec. 1868.J

Dec 188.]SHEETS
V. SELJ)EK.
Statement of the case.

reserved; it being provided, that if any rent "1should remain unp-aid for one month from the time it shall become
due," "all tlhe rights and privileges" of'the- lessees "shall
cease and determine, and any authorized agent of the Sthte,
or lessee under the State, shall have power to enter upon
and take possession of the premises,"-&c. The leases con-,
taimed a further, provision, that the lessees should not be
deprived of the use of the water by any act of the State, or
its agents, or by the inadequacy of the supply of water, for
more than one month in the aggregate in one year; and
that if, for the purposes of repairing the canal, preventing
breaches, or making improvements to the canal, or the
works connected with it, or the inadequacy of the supply,
of water, the lessees should be deprived of the use 6f any
portion of the water-power leased, such deduction should be,
made from the rent accruing on such portions of the power
as the lessees should be prevented from using, as would
bear'the same propor tion to the yearly rent thereof as the
time during which the lessees might have been deprived of
its use bears to eleven months. .In October, 1840, Sheets
. became owner of Yandes's interest in the lease of 1839.
The State subsequently sold so much of the canal, land,
and water-power as was embraced by the two .leases; and
one Selden and others, on the 2d of October, 1857, became
ownes under this sale.
Afterwards (Sheets being in possession, under the leases,
and having refused for several years to pay rent), the pqrchasers formally demanded, on the premisei; rents falling
due on the first day of May, 1860. The lessee failing to pay
them, the purchasers ,brought, in June, 1860, an ejectment'
hr the Circuit- Court for IiThiana (in which State the action
of ejectment is regulated by statute, and has the same con-'
clusiveness as common law judgments in other cases),'to. recover the possession of the property, as for forfeiture from
non-payment of the rents.reserved in.the two leases. Verdict and judgment were given im their favor.*
See 2 Wallace, 177.
VOL. Vi

27

SHEETS V°" SELDEN°

[Su'. C

Statement ofithe case.

After five years bad elapsed since the commencemert of
the ejectment' the lessee now filed a bill in equity (the suit
below) to enjoin the issuing of a habere facias on the judgment in ejectment, and for a redemption of the lands fl'on
the forfeiture incurred for non-payment of rent.
The bill alleged that while the ejectment was pending,
the lessees tendered to the purchasers $400, as in full for
the 'particular rents, for the non-payment of which the forfeitures were declared, and as in full for interest thereon,
and the costs of suit up to that time, and thit the same was
now brought into court for the parchasers if they would
accept it and waive the forfeiture; but it tendered nothing
for rents subsequently or previously accrued. It sought to
avoid such a tender by asserting an equity to set off against
all rents a demand for damages on account of alleged
breaches of covenants, contained in the leases. As for1. Inadequacy in the supply of water, when by the use
of proper efforts, an adequate supply might have been furnished.
1. Inadequacy of supply, owing to the culpable negligence
and gross carelessness of the purchasers in failing to repair
breaches in the canal banks, and to remove obstructions
created by the growth of grass in the bottom and sides of
'the canal, &c., setting up the expense of repairs alleged to
have'been made by the lessee to render the supply adequate.
3. Iot prohibiting lessees under subsequent leases from
drawing off needed water from the miff of the original
lessee to supply their own.
The claim of reductions' of the rents owing to failure of
water were from the 2d October,'1852, when the title of the
purchasers accrued, to. the 1st May, 1865, when the last instalment of rents before the filing of the bill -came due,
and amounted to $2649. The rents during the same term
amounted to $4500.
The lessee alleged as an excuse for not paying the rents
on one of the leases, that he had abandoned that lease, and
that the purchaser under the State acquiesced, and that the
title so became vested in them by reverter, and declined to

'Dec. 1868.]

SHEETS V. SELDEN.

41'9-

Argumbnt for the lessee.

redeem that lease from forfeiture. While thus declining
to redeem that lease, his bill, sought to enjoin the whole

judgment.
The defendants demurred; and the court sustained the
demurrer; giving leave to the complainant to amend his
bill on tender of all 'the rent, with interest on it that had
aQerued on both leases since the bringing of the ejeetment,
which sums the court found to be, on one lease $4494.50,
and on the other $2247.25. The complainant refusing to
amend on such terms, judgment was given on the demurrer.
against him, and he brought.the case here.
Mr.' Barbour (a b'ief of Mr. Morrison being filed), for the
appellant:
1. Assnming, as we have the right to assume (the case
being on a demurrer),. that the facts alleged in the bill of
complaint are.true, the permission to amend was clogge1 by
an onerous and inequitable condition. The suit in ejectment
embraced premises covered by two several and independent
leases, executed on'different days, and to different parties,
one of them to Yandes and the appellant, the other to the
appellant alone; and yet the court ruled, that the two, for'
all the purposes of this suit, were one and indivisible, and
that therefore, an ample tender,. for the purpose of redeeming either one of them, would be of no avail, unless it
should be sufficient to cover the other one also. In this
there was error. The appellant had the right to pay the
sum demanded for the quartor's rent of the premises held
under the first lease; had he elected to do so. And if he had
done this, the appellees could have declared no forfeiture as
to that lease. The demands were separate and distinct icts,
for distinct sums. The appellant had the right to save either
premises, and let the other go, if it pleased him.
Even if the bill of complaint did not show a case that
should entirely and fully absolve Sheets from all his obligations under. the lease to himself, still its-defects, in that
regard, caniot affect so fatally tho -other lease.
2. The bill, as to the lease not surrendered, contaifis suffi.

SHEETS V.

SELDEN.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

cient equity to entitle the appellant to be rel eyed as to it.
The court below assumed that the lessees could claim nothiug by way of set-off, or recoupment, for any damages or
injury sustained by them, consequent upon the failure to
supply water, except an abatement of rents for such time as
they might have been deprived of the specified supply, beyond one month in each year.
The assumption is unwarranted, unless it is shown that
the appellee had used some diligence to furnish the requisite
supply. But the bill avera and the demurrer admits that
the appellant was deprived of the water-p6wer by the cidpable
carelessnessand gross negligence of the appellee.
If these averments would not entitle the appellant to
damages against the appellee, as well as to an abatement of
rents, then the latter would, not be liable, had he cut the
canal banks, and thereby deprived the appellant eleven,
months in the year.
The demise of the water-power and the land is equivalent
to a covenant that the water shall be supplied. NTo particular
words are necessary to constitute a covenant in a lease. It
is sufficiept if it be such as to show the intention of the party
to bind himself to the performance of the matter stipulated
for; and when covenants exist they are to be construed according to the apparent intention of the par-ties, looking to
the whole instrument, and to the context, and the reasonable sense and construction of the words; so that a covenant is broken if the intention is not carried out.*
The general rule, that unliquidated damages cannot be' set
off or recouped in an action at law, is admitted; but the
rule does not hold in equity, which is independent of statutes
of set-off; and, besides, this being a suit in equity, the court
will see to it, that the decision shall settle the mutual rights
of the parties, fully and completely.
Mr. T.A. .Hendricks,contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is d case in equity. The appellant filed his bil to
Comyns' Digest, title 1 Covenant," E.

Dec. 1868.]

SHEETS V). SELDEN.

,4 1

Opinion of the court..

enjoin the execution of a judgment in ejectment. The defendants demurred, and the demurrer was sustained.
The court gave leave to amend upon terms which the appellant declined to accept. A decree was thereupon entered
that the bill should be dismissed, and for'costs. This appeal
.
brings the case here for review.
With the leave to amend we have nothing to do. The
terms imposed were within the discretion of the court, and
Are not open to examination in this proceeding. '
The only question lefore us is, whether the Circuit Couet
erred in sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the case.
The bill is very voluminous. We will consider the points
t'o which our attention has been called, so far as is necessary
to the proper determination of the rights of the parties.
The recovery was had in the action of ejectment, upon the
ground of forfeiture for the non-payment of the rents reserved in two leases.
- Both courts of law and of equity have power to give relief
in cases -of this kind. Courts of law give it upon motion,
which maybe made before or after judgpment. If after judgment, it must be madd before the execution is executed.
The rent due, with interest and costs, must be paid.. Upon
this being done, a final stay of proceedings is ordered.*
The first British statute upon the subject was the 4th
George II, ch. 28. The practice is now regulated by the 15
and 16 Victoria, ch. 76.
Courts of equity are governed by the same rules in the
exercise of this jurisdiction as courts of law. All arrears
of rent, interest, and costs must be paid or tendered. If
there be no special. reason to the contrary, an injunction
tfereupon goes to restrain further steps, to enforce the forfeiture. The grounds upon: which a court of equity pioceeds
are, that the rent is the object of the parties, and the.forfeiture only an incident intended to secure its payment; that
• Tidd's-Prac., 3 Amer. Ed. 1234; Phillips v. Doelittle, 8 Modern, 345;
Smith v. Parks, 10 Id. 383; Atkins v. Chilson, 11 Metcalf, 115.

SHEETS V. SELDEN.

[Sup. ot

Opinion of the court.

the measure of daimages is fixed and certain, and that when
the principal and interest are paid the compensation is complete. In respect to other covenants pertaining to leasehold
estates, where the elements of fraud, accident, and mistake
are wanting, and the measure of compensation is uncertain,
equity will not interfere. It allows the forfeiture to be enfbrced if such is the remedy provided by the contract.
This rule is applied to the covenant to repair, to insure,
and not to assign. Lord Eldon limited the relief to cases
where the lease required the payment of a specific sum of
money. The authorities going beyond this he held to bu
unsound, and declined to follow them. Speaking of Wadman v. Calcraft,* he said the Master of the Rolls in that case
held, "that, though against ejectment for non-payment of
rent the court would relieve upon a principle long acknowledged in this court, but utterly without foundation, it would
not relieve where the right of the landlord accrued, not by
non-payment of rent, but by the non-performance of covenants which might be compensated in damages."t Such is
now the settled English rule upon the subject.T In Bracebridge v. Buckley,§ Baron'Wood, in a dissenting opinion,
made an earnest and able assault upon this doctrine. The
question may be regarded as yet unsettled in the jurisprudence of this country.1[
Lord Redesdale held that where there were unsettled
accounts between the landlord and tenant, which could not
be properly taken at law, the payment or tender of money
on account of the rent might be deferred until the rights of
-the parties were settled by the decree of the court, but that
where the accounts were not of this character, equity would
not intervene. T
* 10 Vesey, 68.

t Hill v. Barclay, 18 Vesey, 63.
+ 2 Story's Eq.,
1315, 1816; Davis v. West, 12 Vesey, 475; Reynoldo
v. Pitt, 19 Vesey, 134; Gregory v. Wilson, 10 English Law and Equity,
138; Eaton v. Lyon, 3 Vesey, 690; Hill v. Barclay, 16 Id. 402.
?. 2 Price, 200.
1 112 Story's Eq.,
1315, 1316, and notes.
, O'Mahony v. Dickson, 2 Schoales & Lfroy, 400; O'Connor v. Spaight,
I Id. 305.

Dec. 1868']

SHEETS V. SELDEN.

6piniion of the court.

The recovery in ejectment is'an important feature .inthe
pase before us. In Indiana the action is regulated by statute,.
and the judgment has the same conclusiveness and effect as
common lawjudgments in other cases. Thejudgmeht against
the appellant established the validity of the leases, thAt he
was in possession, his obligation to pay the rents reserved,
and that the instalments demanded were due and unsatisfied.
He is estopped from depiying these facts, and from setting up
anything in this case to the contrary.
In the case of the Trustees of the Wabash anld -Erie Canal v.
Brett,* the trustees had leased so much of the surplus water
of the canal as might be necessary for the purposes specified. The right was reserved, upon paying for the mill to
be built by the lessee, to resume the use of the water leased
whenever it might be necessary for navigation, or whenever
its use for hydraulic purposes should be found to interfere
with the navigation of the canal. It was averred that the
trustees had abandoned that part of the canal, and suffered
it to go to decay, so that the water-power was destroyed,
anathe plaintiff's mill rendered valueless. The court held
that there was no implied coyenant to keep the canal in
repair, that the express provision for compensation in, one
case excluded the implication of such right in all others,
and that the plaintiff was without remedy. This case, like
the one under consideration, was decided upon a demurrer
by the defendants.
The tendency of modern decisions is not to imply covenants which might and ought to have been expressed, if
intended.t A covenant is never implied that the lessor will
make any repairs.$ The tenant cannot make repairs at the
expense of the landlord, unless by spe6ial agreement.§ If
a demised house be burned down by accident, the rent does'
25 Indiana, 410.
t Aspdin v. Austin, 5 Q..B. 671; PilkingtInv. Scott, 15 Meeson & Welsby,
657.
t Pomfret v. Ricroft, 1 Williams S&unders, 321, 322, note 1 ; Kellenberger
v. Foresman; 13 Indiana, 475.
Mumford v. Brown, 6 Cowen. 475.
*

SHEETS V.

SELDEN.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

not cease. The lessee continues liable as if the accident
had not occurred.* If in such a case the landlord receives
insurance-money, the tenant has no equity to have it applied
to rebuilding, or to restrain the landlord from suing for the
rent until the structure is restored.t
The Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal v. Brett is an
authority strikingly apposite in this case. In the leases set
out in the bill, as in th9 lease in that case, the parties provided but one remedy for a failure of water. That is, an
abatement of'the rent in proportion to the extent and time
of the deficien.cy. The contract gives none other. Beyond
this it is silent upon the subject. This court cannot interpolate what the contract does not contain. We can only
apply the law to the facts as we find them. The appellant
is entitled to the remedy specified. .Expressum facit-cessare
taciturn. Neither a court of equity nor a court of law can aid
him to any greater extent.
This sweeps from the cage the claims set up in the bill by
the appellant for offset, repairs, recoupment, and damages,
leaving to be considered only the claim for a reduction of
the rents in the manner stipulated by the parties.
The appellant aver§ that he abandoned the premises covered by the second lease, that the appellees acquiesced, and
that his title thus became vested in them by reverter. This
is repelled by the verdict and judgment in the action of
ejectment.
He insists that, according to, the provision referred to in
the leases, he is entitled to a reduction of the rents specifically demanded before the commencement of the action of
ejectment. The-plaintifts could not have recovered without
proving to the satisfaction of the jury that the exact amount
demanded was due. Any failure in this respect would have
been fatal to the action. Then was the time for the appellant to assert and prove this claim. He cannot do it now.
The judgment is conclusive.
v. Smith, 4 New York, 126.
j Leeds v. Cheetham, 1 Simons, 146; Loft v. Dennis, 1 Ellis & Ellis, 474.
*Moffat

Dee 1868.].

PAYNE V. HOOK.

Syllabus.

The bill claims reductions of the rents for failure of water
from the second of Oetober, 1857, when the title of the de-feudants accrued, down to*the first of May, 1865, when the
last instalments, before the filing of the bill, became due,
amounting in the aggregate to $2649. The rents, during.
the same, period, amounted to a much larger sum. Uonceding the appellant's demand to be correct, he should at
least have tendered payment of the difference between these'
two amounts, and interest, before bringing his bill. In not
alleging that he had done so the bill is fatally defective.
A case is not presented upon which a court of equity,
according to the settled principles of its jurisprudence, is
authorized to interpose. The spirit manifested by the appellant throughout the litigation between the parties, as disclosed by the bill, is not persuasive to such a tribunal to lend
him its aid. ' We think the demurrer was well taken. The
decree of the Circuit Court is
AkFFIRMED

PAYNE V. HOOK.
1. The equity jurisdiction and remedies conferred by the Constitution and
statutes of the United States cannot be limited or restrained by State
legislation, and are uniform throughout the different States of the Union.
Hence the Circuit Court for any district embracing a particular State,will have jurisdiction of an equity proceeding against an administrator
(if according to the received principles of equity a case for eqqitable
relief is stated), notwithstanding that by a ieculiar structure of the
State probate system such a proceeding could not be maintained in any
court of the State.
2. In a bill in equity in the Circuit Court, by one distributee of an intestate's
estate against-an administrator, it is not indispensable that such distributee make the other distributees parties, if the court is able to proceed to a decree, either through a reference to a master or some other
proper way, to do justice to the parties-before it without injury.to absent
parties equally interested.
8. The sureties of an administrator oh his official 'bond may properly be
joined with.him in an equity proceeding for an erroneous and fraudulent administration of the estate byhim,.and where, if a balance should,
be found against the administrator, those sureties would be liable.

