Dec. 1.868.]

:BROWN V. PIERC&E
Statement of the case.

of navigation require that a vessel coming up behi nd on the
same course as the vessel before her, is bound to. keep'out
of the way, and I cannot agree that the collision wa -the
result of inevitable accident, as it occurred in thle dayinie,'
on smooth water,'and in fair weather.

BROWN V. PIERCE.
1. Where a bill, alleging a good title to lands in a complainant, and setting
forth, particularly, the nature of it, sought to have E conveyance made
by 'duress annulled, and the land reconveyed free from the lien of judgments obtained against the grantee after the conveyance, an aniver by.
the judgment 'creditor, setting up in general terms a good title in the
grantee, on the representation and faith of which le had lent such
grantee money, must be taken as referring to the title derived under'
the deed in controversy. And this though there have been no replication to the answer.
2: Where, in such a bilf, the complainant,'by way'of affecting the judgment
ci slitor with notice, sets forth'that he, the complainant, was never out"
'aripossession of the land, an answer, averring in general terms that the
respondent was informed and believed that the complainant entered as
tenant of the grantee, but not specifying any time or circumstances
of such entry, rior assigning any reason for not sp ecifying them, is insufflicient and evasive; there being nothing alleged which tended to
show that the grantee ever. pretended to have any other title than tbat'
derived from the complainant, or that there was any title elsewhere.
8. A deed procured through fear.of loss of life, produced by threats of the,
grantee, may be avoided for duress.
4. A judgment being but a general lien, and the creditor'under it obtaining
no incumbrance but oil such estate as his debtor really had, the equity
of such-creditor gives way before the superior right of an owner in the
land who had conveyed the'land to the debtor only by duress; and who
had never parted with possessi

ERROR to the Supreme Court of lNebraska Territory.
Brown filed his bill in September, 1860, in the court below
against three persons, Pierce, Morton, and Weston, alleging
that in the spring of 1857, he settled upon and improved a
tract of land near Omaha; that he erected a house oh'the
tract- and- continued to, occupy it until August .10th, 1857,
when .he entered the tract under the pre-emption laws of the

BROWN V. PIERCE.

(Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

United States; that Pierce claimed the laad by virtue of the
laws of an organization known as the Omaha Claim Club;
that this organization, consisting of very numerous armed
men, sought to, and did to a great extent, control the disposition of the public 'lands in the vicinity of Omaha in I57,
in defiance of the laws of the United States; that it 'frequently resorted to personal violence in enforcing its decrees; that the fact was notorious in Omaha, and that he,
Brown, was fully advised in'the premises; that as soon as he
had acquired title to the land, Pierce, together with several
other members of the club, came to his house and demanded
of him a deed of the land, threatening to take his life by
banging him, or putting him in the Missouri River, if he did
not comply with the demand; that the club had posted handsills calling the members together to take action against
him; and thht knowing all this, and in great fear of his life,
he did, on, the 10th of August, 1857, convey the land by
deed to Pierce; that he, Brown, receiv,6d no consideration
whatever, for the conveyance; that from the date of his settlement upon said land, until the' time of filing the bill, he had continued to keep possession either actually or constructively; that
Morton claimed an interest in the premises by virtue of a
judgment lien, and that Weston also made some claim.
The prayer was, that the deed might be declared void, and
Pierce be decreed to reconvey, and for general relief.
The bill was taken pro confesso as to all the defendants,
except Morton, who answered.
This answer, stating that he, Morton, was not a resident
of the Territory, And had no knowledge or information
about the facts alleged in the bill, but on the contrary was
an utter strange'r to them, and therefore could not answer as
to any belief concerning them,-set forth that on the 28th
August, 1857, Pierce was "the owner and in possession of;
and otherwise well .ized and entitled to, as of a good and
indefeasible estate of inheritance in fee simple," the tract in
controversy; that being so, and representing himself to be
so, and having need of money in business, he applied' to
him, Morton, to borrow the same, and that he, Morton, bein

Dec. 18.68.]

BROWN V. PIERCE.

"'203

Argument in sqpport of the deed.

induced. by reason of the representation, and also by the
possession, and believihg that he, Pierce, was the owner,,he
was thereby, induced to lend, and did lend to him $6000, on
th6 personal security of him, Pierce; that before the fi'ling
of this bill by Brown, he, Morton, had obtained ,judgment
against Pierce for $3400, part of the loan yet unpaid;'that
this judgment was a lien on the lands; and that as he, Morton, was informed and believed, if he could not obtain his,
money frQm this land, he would be wholly defrauded out
of it.
The answer further stated that the defendant was informed
and believed that Brown, the complainant, entered upon the
lands as the tenant of Pierce, anfl that the suit by the comhplainant was being prosecuted in violation of the just rights
of Pierce, as well as"of him, Morton.
There 'was no replication. Proofs were taken by the complainant, and they showed to the entire satisfaction of thecourt that all the matterh alleged, in the bill and' not denied
by the answers, were truQ., There thus seemed no douUt
as to the truth of all the facts set out in the bill.
The cQurt below declared Brown's deed void,'and decreed a reconveyance from Pierce to him, and that neither Morton'.
nor Weston had any li~n on the premises. Morton noW
brought the case here for review.
.Messrs. Carlisle and Woolworth, for the appellant, Morton.
1. No replication having been filed, the cause, as, between
Brown and Morton, was heard on bill and answer- and it
comes here for hearing in the same way. The answer is
in such a case to be taken as true. The bill'does not state
a title in the complainant otherwise than vaguely. The
answer avers a good title in Pierce when Morton lent hi.
money.
2. No sufficient case of duress is presented. The club may.
have been called together, but there is no evidence that they
ever came .together or would have come together. 0ohced* See inf'a, p. 218.

208

BROWN V. PIERCE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the deed.

ing, for argument's sake only, that the deed was giveni under
what the law deems duress, still the answer shows a valid
lien, perfected by judgment. All the prpceedings were had
before this bill 'as filed, and in entire ignorance, on Morton's
part, of Brown's claims. Morton is in the same position as
,abondfide purchaser, without notice, would be.*
3.Upon its own circumstances, Morton's lPen is entitled
toprotection against Brown's equities. The deed was made
'August 10th, 1851. The first word of complaint was uttered
when the, bill was filed, which was September 7th, 1860,
three years afterwards. During this period Morton lent his
money to Pierce, u'on the credit which this land gave him,
sued out and levied his attachment, prosecuted his suit, and
recovered his judgment; and during all this time, and during
all these proceedings, he was kept in entire ignorance of
B'rown's claims. No reason is shown for this silence and
delay. The deed, never more than voidable, must be deemed
affirmed by this silence.t
Messrs. 'Redick and Briggs, contra:
1. The title alleged by the answer to have been in Pierce,
mast, on the facts and the loose allegations of the answer,
be assumed to be the one derived from the deed sought to
be set aside.
2. Sufficient duress is shown. Brown was under no obligation to wait, before he made the deed, until he lfad been
actually thrown into the river and had contic up for the last
tine; or, if hanging had been the mode of punishment
adopted, should he have waited until the rope began to draw
about his neck. He did as any prudent man of ordinary
courage would have done under the circumstances.
3. The fhat that the legal title was standing in Pierce's
name at the time of the judgment is unimportant. The general lien of a judgment creditor upon the lands of his debtor,
* Carter v. Champion, 8 Connecticut, 549; Kentv. Plummer, 7 Maine, 464;
Porter v. Bank of Rutland, 19 Vermont, 410t Jones v. Jones, 16 Illinois,
118; Martin v. Dryden, 1 Gilman, 188.
--Doolittle v. McCullough, 7 Ohio State,.299, 307.

Dec. 1868.]

BROWN V. PIERCE.
Opinion of the court.

is subject to all equities which existed against the lands in
favor of third persons, at the time of the recovery of the j udgment.* Morton claims only as a judgment creditor, and his
lien, if any, is general, not specific. It is not proved that he
cannot make the amount of his judgment out of other property of the debtor, as it is not shown that execution has been
issued and returned unsatisfied. It was his duty to first exhaust his legal remedies.
Morton lent his money to Pierce in August, 1857, about
the time the deed was by Pierce coerced from Brown, and
the case shows that Brown was then in the actual possession
of the land and has been ever since. Morton stands charged
with notice.
.Reply: As to the notice. The answer (which, as we have
said, being without replication, is to be taken as true), says
that Brown entered as Pierce's tenant, and was prosecuting
the suit in fraud of his rights. The relation was one theif
of landlord and tenant.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Representations of the complainant were, that on the tenth
of August, 1857, he acquired a complete title to the premises
described in the bill of complaint, under the pre-emption laws
of the United States, and that thereafter, on the same day,
he was compelled, through threats of personal violence and
fear of his life, to convey the same, without any consideration, to the principal respondent. Framed on that theory,
the bill of complaint alleged that the first-named respondent
was at that time a member of an unlawful association in
that Territory, called the Omaha Claim Club, and that he,
accompanied by three or four other persons belonging to
that association, came to his house a few days before be
perfected his right of pre-emption to the land in question,
* Buchan v. Sumner, 2 Barbour's Ch. 165; Ells v. Tousley, 1 Paige, 280;

White v. Carpenter, 2 Id. 217; Keirsted v. Avery, 4 Id. 9.
VOL. VII.
14

210

BROwN V. PIERCE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and told the complainant that if he entered the land under
his pre-emption claim, he must agree to deed the same to
him, and added, that unless he did so, he, the said respondent
and his associates, would take his life; and the complainant
further alleged, that the same respondent, accompanied, as
before, by certain other members of that association, came
again to his house on the day he perfected his pre-emption
claim, and repeated those threats of personal violence, and
did other acts to intimidate him, and induce him to believe
that they would carry out their threats if he refused to
execute the deed as required.
Based upon those allegations, the charge is that the complainant was put in duress by those threats and acts of
intimidation, and that he signed and executed the deed, and
conveyed the land by means of those threats and certain
a-ts of intimidation, and through fear of his life, and without any consideration; and he prayed the court that the
conveyance might be decreed to be inoperative and void,
and that the grantee might be required to reconvey the
same to the complainant.
Two other persons were made respondents, as claiming
some interest in the land in controversy. Pierce, the principal respondent, and Weston, one of the other respondents,
were non-residents, and were served by publication pursuant
to the rules of the court and the law of the jurisdiction.
They never appeared, and failing to plead, answer, or demur,
and due proof of publication in the manner prescribed by
law having been filed in court, a decree was rendered as to
them, that the bill of complaint be taken as confessed.*
Morton, the other respondent, appeared and filed an answer, in which he alleged that the principal respondent, on
the twenty-eighth of August, 1857, and for a long time before, was the owner in fee of the premises; that he was
informed, and believed, that the complainant entered upon
the land as the tenant of the principal respondent, and that
he was prosecuting this suit in violation of the just righta
* Nations et al. v. Johnson et al., 24 Howard, 201.

Dec. 1868.]

BROWN V.

PIERCE.

Opinion of the court.

of all the respondents; that the principal respondent wanting to borrow money, he, the respondent before the court,
loaned him a large sum, and accepted bills of exchange for
the payment of the same, drawn to the order of the borrower
of the money, and which were indorsed by the drawer; that
the bills of exchange not having been paid when they became due, he brought suit against the drawer and indorser,
and recovered judgment against him for three thousand one
hundred dollars; that the judgment so recovered is in full
force and unsatisfied, and that the same is a lien on the
premises described in the bill of complaint.
No answer, from any knowledge possessed by the respondent, is made to the allegation that the complainant acquired
a complete title io the land under the pre-emption laws of
the United States, nor to the charge contained in the bill
of complaint, that the deed was procured by threats of personal violence arnounting to actual duress. On the contrary,
the answer alleged that the respondent before the court wasan utter stranger to all those matters and things, and that
he could not answer concerning the same, because he had
no information or belief upon the subject.
Authorities ar&not wanting to the effect, that all matters
well alleged in the bill of complaint, which the answer
neither denies nor avoids, are admitted; but the better
opinion is the other way, as the sixty-first rule adopted by
this court provides that if no exception thereto shall be filed
within the period therein prescribed, the answer shall be
deemed and taken to be sufficient.*
Material allegations in the bill of complaint ought to be
answered and admitted, or denied, if the facts are within
the knowledge of the respondent; and if not, he ought to
state what his belief is upon the subject, if he has any, and
if he has none, and cannot form any, he ought to say so,
and call on the complainant for proof of the alleged facts,
or waive that branch of the controversy; but the clear
weight of authority is, that a mere statement by the re* Young v. Grundy, 6 Cranch, 61; Brooks v. Byam, 1 Story, 297.

BRowN v.

PiERcE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

spondeut in his answer, as in this case, that he has no
knoi ledge that the fact is as stated,without any answer as
to his belief concerning it, is not such an admission as is to
be recoived as full evidence of the fact.*
Such an answer does not make it necessary for the complainant to introduce more than one witness to overcome
the defence, and the well-known omissions and defects of
such an answer may have some tendency to prove the allegations of the bill of complaint, but they are not such an admission of the same as will constitute a sufficient foundation
for a decree upon the merits.t
Proper remedy for a complainant, in such a case, is to
except to the answer for insufficiency within the period prescribed by the sixty-first rule; but if he does not avail himself of that right, the answer is deemed sufficient to prevent
the bill from being taken pro confesso, as it may be if no
answer is filed.t
Attention is called to the fact, that no replication was filed
to the answer; but the suggestion comes too late, as the
respondent proceeded to final hearing in the court below
without interposing any such objection.
Mere formal defects in the proceedings, not objected to in
the court of original jurisdiction, cannot be assigned in an
appellate tribunal as error to reverse either a judgment at
law or decree in equity.
Legal effect of a replication is, that it puts in issue all the
matters well alleged in the answer, and the rule is, that if
none be filed, the answer will be taken as true, and no evidence'can be given by the complainant to contradict anything which is therein well alleged.ยง
Undenied as the answer is by any replication, it must
*

t

Warfield v. Gambrill, 1 Gill & Johnson, 503.

Young v. Grundy, 6 Cranch, 51 ; Parkman v. Welch, 19 Pickering, 234.
1 Hardeman v.'Harris, 7 Howard, 726; Stockton v. Ford, 11 Howard,
232; 1 Daniels's Chancery Practice, 736; Langdon v. Goddard, 3 Story, 13.
1 Barbour's Chancery Practice, 249; Mills v. Pitman, 1 Paige's Chancery, 490; Peirce v. West, 1 Peters's Circuit Court, 351; Story's Eq'uity
Pleading, 878; Cooper's do., 329.

Dec. 1868.]

BROWN V. PIERCE.
Opinion of the court.

have its fair scope as an admission; but the court is not
authorized to supply anything not expressed in it, beyond
what is reasonably .implied from the language employed.
Proofs were taken by the complainant, and they'show, to
the entire satisfaction of the court, that all the matters
alleged in the bill of complaint, and not denied in the
answer, are true, and the conclusion of the court below was,
that the complainant -acquired a complete title to the land
under his pre-emption claim, and that the deed from him to
the principal respondent was procured in the -manner and
by the means alleged in the bill of complaint.
Nothing is exhibited in the record to support any different
conclusion, or to warrant any different decree, unless it be
found in one or the other of the first two defences set up in
the answer.
First defence is, that the principal respondent, -on the
twenty-eighth of August, 1857, and long before that time,
was the owner in fee of the premises; but neither that part
of the answer, nor any other, denied that the complainant
acquired a complete title to the land, as alleged in the bill
of complaint, nor set up any defence in avoidance of those
allegations, nor made any attempt to present any defence
against the direct charge, that the deed under which the
respondent claimed title, was procured from the complainant
through threats of personal violence and by means of duress.
Indefinite as the allegation of title is, the answer must be
construed as referring to the title under the deed in controversy, as it is not pretended that the respondent ever had
any other, ,and, if viewed in that light, it is in no respect
inconsistent with the conclusion adopted by the Supreme
Court of the Territory.
Such an indefinite allegation cannot be considered as presenting any sufficient answer, either to the alleged title of
the complainant or to the charge made in the bill of complaint.
Briefly stated, the second defence set up in the answer is,
that the respondent was informed and believed.that the com-

BROWN V. PIERCE.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

plainant entered upon the land as a tenant, but the time
when the supposed entry was made is not alleged, nor are
the circumstances attending the entry set forth, nor is any
reason assigned why the allegations were not made more
definite, nor is there any fact or circumstance alleged which
shows or tends to show that there was any prior owner to

the land, except the United States, nor that the respondent
ever pretended to have any other title to the same than that
derived from the complainant.
Viewed in any light, those allegations must be regarded
as evasive and insufficient; and they are not helped by the
omission of the complainant to file the general replication.
Those ptnts of the answer being laid out of the case as insufficient to constitute a defence, the conclusion is inevitable
that the title to the land was in the complainant as alleged,
and that he parted with it through threats of personal vio-ence and by duress, and without any consideration.
Argument to show that a deed or other written obligation
or contract, procured by means of duress, is inoperative and
void, is hardly required, as the proposition is not denied by
the respondent. Actual violence is not necessary to constitute duress, even at common law, as understood in the
parent country, because consent is the very essence of a
contract, and, if there be compulsion, there is no actual consent, and moral compulsion, such as that p)roduced by threats
to take life or to inflict great bodily harm, as well as that
produced by imprisonment, is everywhere regarded as sufficient, in law, to destroy free agency, without which there
can be no contract, because, in that state of the case, there
is no consent.
Duress, in its more extended sense, means that degree of

constraint or danger, either actually inflicted or threatened
and impending, which is sufficient, in severity or in appre.
hension, to overcome the mind and will of a person of ordi.
nary firmness.*
*

Chitty on Contracts, 217; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence, 283.

Dec. 1868.]

:BROWN V. PIERCE.
Opinion of the court.

Text-writers usually divide the subject into two classes,
namely, duress per minas and duress of imprisonment, and
that classification was uniformly adopted in the early history
of the common law, and is generally preserved in the decisions of the English courts to the present time.*
Where there is an arrest for an improper purpose, without just cause, or where there is an arrest for a just cause,
but without lawful authority, or for a just cause, but for
an unlawful purpose, even though under proper process,
it may be-construed as duress of imprisonment; and if the
person arrested execut6 a contract or pay money for his
release, he may avoid the contract as one procured by
duress, or may recover back the money in an action for

money had and received.t
Second class, duress per minas, as defined at common law,
is where the party enters into a contract (1) For fear of loss
of life; (2) For fear of loss of limb; (3) For fear of mayhem;
(4) For fear of imprisonment; and many modern decisions
of the courts of that country still restrict the operations of
the rule within those limits.1
They deny that contracts procured by menace of a mere
battery to the person, or of trespass to lands, or loss of goods,
can be avoided on that account, and the reason assigned for
this qualification of the rule is, that such threats are held
not to be of a nature to overcome the mind and will of h
firm and prudent man, because it is said that if such an
injury is inflicted, sufficient and adequate redress may be
obtained in a suit at law.
Cases to the same effect may be .found also in the reports
of decisions in this country, and some of our text-writers
have adopted the rule, that it is only where the threats
uttered excite fear of death, or of great bodily harm, or
unlawful imprisonment,. that a contract, so procured, can be
avoided, because, as such courts and authors say, the person
* 2 Institutes, 482; 2 Rolle's Abridgment, 124.

Richardson v. Duncan, 3 New Hampshire, 508; Watkins v. Baird, 6
R
Massachusetts, 511; Strong v. Grannis, 26 Barbour, 124.
* 3 Bacon's Abridgment, title 'Duress," 252.

BROWN V. PIERCE.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

threatened with slight injury to the person, or with loss of
property, ought to have sufficient resolution to resist such a
threat, and to rely upon the law for his remedy.*
On the other hand, there are many American decisions,
of high authority, which adopt a more liberal rule, and hold
that contracts procured by threats of battery to the person,
or the destruction of property, may be avoided on the
ground of duress, because in such a case there is nothing
but the form of a contract, without the substance.t
But the case under consideration presents no question for
decision which requires the court to determine which class
of those cases is correct, as they all agree in the rule that a
contract procured through fear of loss of life, produced by
the threats of the other party to the contract, wants the
essential element of consent, and that it may be avoided for
duress, which is sufficient to dispose of the present controversy.1
Next question which arises in the case is, whether the
judgment set up by the appellant creates a superior equity
in his favor over that alleged and proved by the appellee.
Before proceeding to examine this question, it will be
useful to advert briefly to the material facts exhibited in the
record.
Title was acquired by the complainant under the preemption laws of the United States, and on the same day the
principal respondent, through threats to take his life, if he
refused, compelled him to convey the same to that respondent, and the record shows that the respondent before the
* Skeate v. Beale, 11 Adolphus & Ellis, 983; Atlee v. Backhouse, 3 Iee%on & Welsby, 642; Smith v. Monteith, 13 Id. 438; Shepherd's Touchstone,
8; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 393

t Foshay v. Ferguson, 6 Hill, 158; Central Bank v. Copeland, 18 3Maryland, 317; Eadie v Slmmon, 26 New York, 12; 1 Story's Equity Jurisprudence (9th ed.), 239; Harmony v. Bingham, 12 New York, 99; S.C., 1 Duer,
229; Fleetwood v. New York, 2 Sandford, 475; Tutt v. Ide, 3 Blatchford,
250; Astley v Reynolds, 2 Strange, 915; Brown v. Peck, 2 Wisconsin, 277;
Oates v. Hudson, 5 Eriglish Law itnd Equity, 469.
1 2 Greenleaf on Evidence, 283; 1 Blackstone's Commentaries, 131.

Dec.,1868.]

BROWN V. -PIERCE.
Opinion of the court.

court, within the same month, loaned the -money to the
grantee in that deed, for which he recovered judgment,
'although the grantor was then.in possession of the land,
and has remained in possession of the same to the present
time.
The judgment is founded upon the bills of exchange received for that loan. Judgments were not liens at common
law, but several of the States had passed laws to that effect
before the judicial system of the United States was organized,
and the decisions of this court have established the doctrine
that Congress, in adopting the processes of the States, also
adopted the modes of process prevailing at that date in the
courts-of the several States, in respect to the lien of judgments within the limits of their respective jurisdictions.*
Different regulations, however, prevailed in different States,
and in some neither a judgment uor a decree for the payment of money, except in cases of attachment or mesne
process, createdl any preference in favor of the creditor until
the execution was issued, and had been levied on the land.
Where the lien is recognized, it confers a right to levy- on
the laud to the exclusion of other adverse interests acquired'
subsequently to the judgment; but the lien constitutes no
property or right in the land itself.t
Such judgments and decrees were made liens by the process acts in the Federal districts where they have that effect
under the State laws, and Congress has since provided that
they shall cease to have that operation in the same manner,
and at the same periods, in the respective Federal districts,
as like processes do when issued from the State courts. Federal judgments and decrees are liens, therefore, in all cases,
and to the same extent, as similar judgments and decrees
are, when rendered in the courts of-the State.
Express decision of this court is, that the lien of a judg.
Williams v. Benedict et al., 8 Howard, 111; Ward et al. v. Chamber-'
lain et al., 2 Black, 438; Bayard v. Lombard, 9 Howard, 530; Riggs V.
Johnson County, 6 Wallace, 166.
j Conard v. Atlahtic Ins. Co., 1 Peters, 448; Massingill v. Downs. 7
Howard, 767.

:BROWN V.

PIERCE.

[Siup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

ment constitutes no property in the land, that it is merely
a general lien securing a preference over subsequently acquired interests in the property, but the settled rule in chancery is, that a general lieu is controlled in such courts so as
to protect the rights of those who were previously entitled to
an equitable interest in the lands, or in the proceeds thereof.
Specific liens stand upon a different footing, but it is well
settled that a judgment creates only a general lien, and that
the judgment creditor acquires thereby no higher or better
right to the property or assets of the debtor, than the debtor
himself had when the judgment was rendered, unless he can
show some fraud or collusion to impair his rights.*
Correct statement of the rule is, that the lien of a judgment creates a preference over subsequently acauired rights,
but in equity it does not attach to the mere legal title to the
iand, as existing in the defendant at its rendition, to the
exclusion of a prior equitable title in a third person.t
Guided by these considerations, the Court of Chancery
will protect the equitable rights of third persons against the
legal lien, and will limit that lien to the actual interest which
the judgment debtor had in the estate at the time the judgment was rendered.t
Objection is also made, that the affidavit showing that the
defendants were non-residents, was not in due form, and that
the order of notice, and the publication of the same, were
insufficient to give the court jurisdiction; but the proposition
is not supported by the record, and must be overruled.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Drake on Attachments, 223.
j- Howe, petitioner, 1 Paige's Chancery, 128; Ells v. Tousley, lb. 283;
White v. Carpenter, 2 Paige, 219; Buchan v Sumner, 2 Barbour's Chancery,
181; Lounsbury v. Purdy, 11 Barbour, 494; Keirsted v. Avery, 4 Paige's
Chancery-, 15.

Averill v. Loucks, 6 Barbour, 27.

