JAMES

v. BANXK.

[Sup. Ct.

.Statement of the case.

merely directory to General Butler'; for it could not have
been supposed that he could contract with 4ny person- for
arms, clothing, &c., at prices to be determined by what the
government could buy them for afterwards.
2. General Butler was only required to bring the costs of
recruiting, arming, and equipment, in the aggregate, within
that of like troops raised for the service. This, of course,
left him a discretion in contracting for each article he needed,
provided the amount of all his contracts did not exceed the
expense laid down by the rule.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is REVERSED, with
instructions to the court below to enter a judgment for the
plaintiff for the differenc6 between $20 and $27 each for the
3200 guns described in the second voucher.

JAMES V. BANK.
Where there is no bill of exceptions, and nothing upon which error can be
assigned, the.regular practice is to affirm the judgments, not to dismiss

IN error to the Circuit Court for Louisiana.
The Bank of Mobile brought suit in the court below against
one James, on bill .of exchange. The record of the case, as
sent here, contained nothing but the declaration; the plea
of the general issue; the proof of protest of the bill o'f exchange, indo-sed by the defendant, and notice to him of nonpayment, and judgment of the court in favor of the plaintiff.
There was no bill of exceptions, and nothing upon which
error could be assigned.
A niotion was now made by Mr. P. Phillips,in. behalf of
the defendant in error, to dismiss the case; an unreported order
of dismissal, which was said to have been made at the last
terni on a similar case, being referred to.
Mr. Carlisle, contra.

Dec. 1868.]

D3LITZ v. BROWN.

698,

Opinion of th6,court.

The CBIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The regular course, in cases of this description, is to affirm
the judgments. The appeal is reguarly here, and canuo.t,
be dismissed ,for want of jurisdiction. The motion, there-fore, 'must be DENIED.
Counsel for the appellee has referred us to an 'order dismissing a writ of error at the last term, under circitmstances,
like those of the case before us. This order must have beeft
enterhd through inadvertence, and cannot ba drawn'into A
precedent.

BLITZ. V. BROWN.

A

writ of error dismissed where the transcript contained only a blank form
of a certificate.of.puthentication, without the seal-of the court below or.
the signature of its clerk. Leave was, however, granted to'the plaintiff
in error to withdraw the record, but not for the purpose of having it
perfected and returned here andplaced on the docket, as if it had been .
regularly filed.

IN this case-a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia-no authenticated transcript of the rec.
ord had been filed. That which purported to be a transcript
contained only a blank form of a certificate of authentica
tion, without the seal of the court below or the signature of
its clerk.
Two motions were now accordingly made; the first by
M1r. Carlisle,for the defendant in error, to dismiss, the second,
by Mr.Rradley, in behalf of the plaintiff in error, for leave to
withdraw the paper from the f.les, in order that the blank
certificate might be duly signed and sealed, and that when
thus perfected, the record might be returned. and have its
place on the docket, as if regularly filed, according to law
and the practice of the court.
The C(jHIEF JUSTIOE delivered the opinion of the court.
The filing of such a paper, as has been filed in this case,
is not tLe filing of the transcript at the next term after the

