354

THE DIANA,

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

decreeing the equitable title to belong to the person agaiust
whom the department had decided, are not'in conflict with
these 'views, but furnish an additional reason for refusing
to interfere with such cases while they remain under such
control.
DECREE AFFIRMFED.

THE

DIANA.

To justify a vessel of a neutral in attempting to 6nter a blockaded port, she
must be in such distress as to render her entry a matter of absolute ond
uncontrollable necessiiy.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
The schooner Diana was captured, on the 26th of November, 1862, by vessels of war of the United States, off Pass'
Cavallo, on the coast of Texas, then in rebellion against the
United States, and, for some time previously, under blockade
along the whole line of its coast, and taken to Key West for
adjudication.
A libel in prize was filed against both vessel and cargo,
in the District Court for the Southern District of Florida,
in 'December, 1862, to which the master of the vessel interposed a claim in behalf of John Cabada, of Campeachy,
Mexico, the alleged owner of the schooner, and in behalf
of Miguel Canno, a Spanish subject residing at Campeachy,
the alleged owner of the cargo. Subsequently a claim was
filed by Idela Cabada, alleging that he was oWner of the
vessel, and that he had let her to one Miguel Canno on
freightfor a voyage from Campeachy to Matamoras, Mexico,

in good faith.

The ship's papers showed that the vessel was on a voyage
trom Campeaehy to Matamoras, and was consigned to one
Sai Roman, at the port last named.
11th November, 1862.

She set sail on the

Dec., 1868.]

THE DIANA.
Statement of the case.

When captured the vessel was hear the port of Matagorda,
off the coast of Texas. She was fourteen days from Campeachy, and was two hundred miles out of her direct course,
having deviated therefrom on the third day out from Campeachy.
The master, in his deposition taken in preparatorio,testified
that "the first port the vessel would have entered had she
not been captured would have been the nearest convenient
port of entrance, and the second would have been Matamoras," and "that for twenty-four hours previous to the
capture the ship was 'steering toward the coast of Texas, in
hopes to make a harbor, or beach, or something."
One of the seamen found on board tes'ified that but for
our capture "the vessel would have entered first the port of
Cavallo," and that "they were running along the coast for
an entrance, and that at the time of the capture the captunred
vessel was only some three miles from the lighthouse on
Pass Cavallo Point."
In excuse for the position in which the vessel was found
it was alleged that when three days out from Campeachy
damage had resulted to the rigging of the ' essel, causing
her to deviate from her course, and that the master ap:
proached the coast." from no other motive than that of seeking shelter to repair the damagp of his vessel."
The log-book, which had perhaps a somewhat elaborate
and artificial aspect, stated that there had been a good deal
of heavy weather; that the vessel worked much; that when
three days out from Campeachy she "broke the clamp of
the peak of the foresail," which it was necessary to wait till
daylight to repair, but which then, at six o'clock in the
morning, was repaired, the wind then being favorable, as it
was generally, for going to Matamoras ; that on the 15th she
broke tlhe bobstay of the bowsprit; and that "a lash.g of
rope was made to secure the said bowsprit, having no better
means," and that sail was then made with double reefs. It
indicated, generally speaking, variable weather, sometimes
heavy, sometimeg fine; that the vessel, however,- required
the pumps to be not unfi'equently at .work: that on the

THE DIANA.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

25th she became uncertain about her longitude, and that on
that day, under light variable winds, she "luffed all that was
possible, for the purpose of linding soundings and determining our longitude, and by that means to enable us to
make a straight course for our port of destination, or some
port near by, where we might repair the damages sustained
by the vessel and her rigging." Twenty-four hours afterwards she was captured, being, as already stated, now off
the Texan port of Matagorda.
The following letter of instructions, from the owner of
the vessel and the owner of the cargo to the master, was
found among his papers.
[Translation.]
CAMPEAV.HY, November 10th, 1862.
DN. PEDRO

JAUREQUIBERRY, present.

We think it advisable to hand you
this letter of instructions, in order that you may remember
with greater facility and precision the objects of the voyage
to be undertaken to-day by our pilot-boat "Diana," of which
DEAR SIR AND FRIEND:

vessel you are master.

You have ample authority to dispose of the goods which are
on board of the vessel, and to invest the proceeds in the article
which we have mentioned to you verbally, not forgetting that
our wishes as well as your personal interest consist in making
the most of the article referred to.
Although the vessel goes consigned to Dn. Jose San IRoman,
you will do what you consider best for our interest. You should
not disburse any ,Money while you are able to make purchases
from the proceeds of the invoice, and of such ship's stores as you
can conveniently dispense with after reserving a sufficient quantity for the return voyage.
As we are embittered by the war which France has declared
rgainst the republic, upon the return voyage you will touch at
Sisal or Celestun, where you will receive our instructions.
You will keep an accurate account of all moneys disbursed by
you, in order that we may determine whether to continue or not
these expeditions. We omit any further instructions which we

Dec. 1868.]

THE DIANA.

.357

StAtement of the case.

might give, having full confidence in your intelligence and activity.
We conclude by wishing you a safe voyage, and by acknowledging ourselves
Your friends, &c.,
CANN6 & CABADA.

The cargo of the Diana consisted in part of rice, starch,
coarse flannel, paper, nails, rum, brandy, shoes, and-segars;
articles which were nearly or quite as abundant at Matamoras as at Campeachy, but which were greatly needed in
Texas, at the time, as already said, under blockade by the
United States.
There was on board, apparently as a passenger, an Englishman, whose name appeared in the ship's papers as George
Stites, but whose real name was George Chase, and "whowas
a pilot, and a resident of Lavacca, Texas.
Acting Master Atkinson, of the United Statds Navy, in
his deposition, taken by leave of court, testified that when
he boarded the Diana, her master said that his purpose was
to run the blockade; that he had before attempted to do
so at St. Louis Pass and did .not succeed, and that the same
statement was made to him by the pilot of the Diana, who
was part owner of the cargo.
. Acting Master Samson, also of the United States Navy, in
his deposition testified that Chase, the ostensible passenger
on board, and who was part owner of the cargo, stated that
he was engaged to act as her pilot in entering Matagorda
Bay, or any other convenient port of Texas, and that the
vessel was intended to violate the blockade; and that Chase
made a written acknowledgment to this effect, in presence
of several witnesses.
On the hearing, it was brought to the notice of the court
that a person of the same name with the captain of the Diana,
and residing at the same place, commanded the schooner Sea
Witch, which was captured off the coast of Texas for an alleged intention to violate the blockade, and was restored to
her owner upon the ground that while on a voyage from

T t DrAXA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Matamoras to New Orleans, she was driven out of course by
heavy weather and had been damaged;* the same excuse
which is offered in this case.
The District Court decreed restitution, and from the decree the United States appealed.
I2"r. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States,
relied upon the very suspicious facts disclosed by the case
upon the position of the vessel, so far out of her proper
course, and upon the circumstance, very remarkable if the
case was one of innocence, that the captain of the vessel had
been recently found on another vessel, in exactly the same
unfortunate circumnstafices as he now invoked the interest
of the court for, in the case of the Diana. He was not a
novus hospes in this tribunal.
No opposinq counsel.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the, court.
The schooner Diana was captured, in November, 1862, off
Cavallo, near the entrance of Matagorda Bay, on the coast
of Texas. According to her papers, she was on a voyage
from Campeachy, in Mexico, to Matamoras, at the mouth
of the Rio Grande; but at the time of her capture she had
been fourteen days at sea and bad passed two hundred miles
beyond her alleged port of destination. We have no doubt
that she was then seeking to enter a blockaded port on the
coast. The master states in his deposition that the vessel,
if she had not been captured, would have first entered the
nearest convenient port, and afterwards gone to Matamoras,
and that for twenty-four hours previous to her capture he
was steering the vessel toward the coast in hopes of making
a harbor or a beach. One of the seamen testifies that the
vessel was running along the coast for an entrance; that at
the time of her capture she was only three miles from the
lighthouse on Pass Cavallo Point, and but for the capture
would have entered th3 port of Cavallo.
* 6 Wallace, 242.

-Dec. -1868.]

THE DiAxA.
Opinion of the court.

*Ior do we doubt that it was the object of the voyage to
tradd with the enemy, and for that purpose that the owners
of thevessel and cargo intended to violate the blockade.
The excuse offered by the master for the position in which
the vessel was found-that she had been injured by stress
of weather, and he wqs approaching the coast with no other
motive than that of seeking -shelter to repair the damage--is inconsistent with various facts developed by the evidence.
In the first place, the papers of the vessel purport that she
was consigned to one San Roman, at Maitamoras, but 'the
instructions from the owners of both vessel and cargo show
-that this consignment was colorable, and that the master
was the real consignee. He was clothed with full authority
to dispose of the goods on board, and to invest the proceeds
in what is very mysteriously termed the article, which they
had mentioned to him verbally. The article to which allusion is thus made, was cotton, which it was undoubtedly the
object of the voyage to procure.
In the second place, the articles which composed the cargo
were as abundant and cheap at Matamoras as at Campeachy,
whilst they were in great demand and of high price in the
country occupied by the enemy.
In the third plac6, the vessel had on board, ostensibly as a
passenger, but under a fictitious name, an Englishman, who.'
was a pilot, and a resident of Lavacca, a town at the head of
Matagorda Bay, for which the vessel was evidently directing
her course when captured.
Besides these considerations, which are sufficient of themselves to justify the conclusion that a violation of the blockade was .in the original intention .of the owners of vessel and
cargo before the vessel sailed from Campeachy, it was admitted by the master at the time of the capture that it was
his purpose to run the blockade, and thAt he had before attempted, without success, to do so at St. Louis Pass. The
'Englishman on board, who joined the vessel at Campeachy,
also stated that he was engaged to act as pilot of the vessel
to enter.Matagorda Bay, or any other convenient port of
Texas.

360

TiE DIANA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The block- le of the coast of Texas had been established
long before the vessel sailed from Campeachy, and its existence was generally known. It is proved that it was known
to the owners and master of the captured vessel.
There is another circumstance which may be adverted to
in this connection. The master of this vessel was alsb the
master of the Sea Witch, which was captured off the coast
of Texas for an attempt to violate the blorckade, and was released upon the ground, that whilst on a voyage from Matamoras to New Orleans she was driven out of her course by
stress of weather and injuries received-an excuse similar to
the one offered in this case.* This circumstance the court
will take notice of, and it will justify a rigid scrutiny into
the character of the exculpating testimony produced by the
master in the present base. Such is the language'of the adjudged cases.t
,The statement of the master as to the extent of injuries
which the vessel had received is not supported by the logbook. The injuries which are shown by its entries were not
,of a very serious character-such as would endanger the
safety of the vessel. Much less do the entries show the necessity of any deviation of the vessel from a direct course to
Matamoras. The statement is, that she deviated from such
course on the third day out from Campeachy, because the
sea and wind were heavy, and the rigging of the vessel had
been damaged. The log-book shows that the damage was
repaired the following morning, and on the next day that
the wind was fair for sailing in a direct course to Matamoras,
and so continued nearly all the time up to the capture.
It is undoubtedly true that a vessel may be in such distress
as to justify her in attempting to enter a blockaded port.
She may be out of provisions or water, or she may be in a
leaking condition, and no other port be of easy access. The
case, however, must be one of absolute and uncontrollable
necessity; and this must be established beyond reasonable
* 6 Wallace, 242.

t The Juffrouw Elbrecbt, I Robinson, 127; The Experiment, 8 NVh.aton,
261.

Dec. 1868.]'

961

KELLOGG V.'UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.'

doubt. "Nothing leqs,'- says Sir William Scott, "than an
uncontrollable necessity, which admits of no' cormpromise,
And cannot be resisted," will be held a justification of the
offence. Any rule less stringent than this would open the
door to all sorts of fraud. Attempted evasions ofthe blockade would be excused upon pretences of distress and danger,'
not warranted by the facts, but the falsity of which it would
be difficult to expose.

The decree of the court below must be

REVERSED,

and that

court directed to enter a decree condemning the vessel and
cargo as lawful prize; and it is
So ORDERED.

]KELLOGG V. UNITED STATES.
An officer of the United States, under authority of Congress, made a contract
- with D. and S., by which they agreed to furnish bricks to the government. The contract contained a clause that D. and S. should not sub-let
or assign it. D. and S. having abandoned-the'contract, it was taken, up,,
with the consent of the officer representing the goverpment, by M. and
A., the sureties of D. and S. to the government for its perfornance. M.
and A, then entered into a contract with K., by which he undertook to
perform the contract and to receive payment therefor from the United
States at the contract price, and to pay over to M. and A. a certain
percentage of the am6unt received, M. and A. constituting him, at the
same time, their attorney to furnish the bricks and to receive paymeht.
The government, desiring to abandon their enterprise, proposed to all
parties respectively interestedon accountof their contract, &c., that if they
would cancel it, the United States would settle with them ",on the principles of justice and equity" all damages, &c., incurred, by them. Held,
that K. was not a party to, nor interested in the contract.

APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

By an act of March 8d, 1853, Congress authorized the
commencement of an aqueduct to supply Washington with
water. Captain Meigs was appointed to superintend the
work.
In January, 1854, Captain Meigs, on behalf of the United

