GORDON V. UNITED STATES.

[-sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

by the plaintiffs, for two years afterwards they brought a
second suit to have the bonds declared void for want of
power in the county to idsue them; and also the act of the
legislature for the want of power to confirm the irregularities
in the vote. The decision in that case, however, as we have
saen, was adverse to both these propositions.In the second place, there was no pending litigation from
the commencehient of the first suit to he termination of
the last, namely, from the 15th of October, 1856, to the 18th
of October, 1862.
There were three distinct and independent suits, with an
interval of one year between the first and second, and of two
years between the second and third. The doctrine of hs
pendens, therefore, has no application to the case.
JUDGMENT AFbIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in this case.

GORDON V. UNITED STATES.
L. An act of Congress referring a claim against the government to an officer
of one of tne executive depar,-nents, to examine and adjust, does not,
even though, the claimant and government act under the statute, and
tlie account is examined and adjusted, make the case one of arbitrament
and award in the technical sense of these words, and sq as to, bind either
party as by submission to award.
Hen6e a subsequent act repealing the one making the reference (the
claim not being yet paid), impairs no right and is valid. De Groot v.
United States (5 Wallace, 432) affirmed.

2. Semble that the court does not sanction the allowance of interest on
claims against the government.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims; the case having been

thus:
The legal representatives of George Fisher, deceased, by
petition represented to the court just named, that during
the lifetime of the said George, and in the year 1813, a
large amount of his property in Florida was taken or destroyed by tletroops of the United States. That bfore his

Dee.- 1868.]

GORDON v.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

decease, the. said Fisher made application to Congress for
compensation for the loss and destruction of his property.
That after his decease this application was renewed by his
legal representatives. That after a delay of several years,
Congress, in 1848, passed, an act for the relief of such
representatives, authorizing and requiring the Second Auditor of the Treasury Department to examine and adjust
their claims on principles of eqity and justice, having due
regard to the proofs, for the value of the'property taken or
destroyed; providing that the said representatives should
be paid for the same out of any money in the treasury not
otherwise appropriated. This law alo enacted, that if it
should be found impracticable for the claimants to furnish
distinct proof as to the spedific quantity of property destroyed
by the troops, and by the. Indians, respectively, it should
be lawful for the accounting officer to apportion the losses
caused bythe two respectively, in such manner as the proofs
should show to be just and equitable, so as to afford a full,
andfair indemnity for all losses occasioned by the troops; but,
nothing was to be allowed for property destroyed by -the
Indians.
That this act of Congress was accepted by the claimants,
and that the auditor proceeded to examine and adjust the
claims under it. That the auditor refused to receive and
consider certain depositions presented by the claimants, because he did not consider them properly authenticated.'
That the auditor made what the petition states to be "an:
award" on the 22d April, 1848, allowing one-half of the
value of such property as he considered the proof established had been destroyed, assuming, as is alleged, that.onehalf of the destruction was becasioned by the Indians, and
not by the troops. This award amounted to $8873, and did
not, as was alleged, include interest or compensation fo the
losses and injuries sustained.
That in December, 1848, the auditor (at whose instance
did not appear) reconsidered the case, corrected an error in
calculation of $100 in favor of the claimants in his former
report, and allowed interest on the amount as corrected by

GORDON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CLt

Statement of the case-,

him, being,$8973, from 1883, the date of the first application for relief, to the date of the allowance in 1848, which
interest amounted to $8997.94. NTot satisfied, the complainants demanded interest from the time of the loss unt-l'
the award, at the rate of interest allowed in Florida. What
that rate was did not appear, This renewed controversy was
submitted by the auditor and the claimants to the attorneygeneral of that day, who gave an opinion that interest at the
rate of 6 per cent. should be allowed from the date of the loss to
the time of the allowance. Upon this a further allowance of
interest was made by the auditor, amounting to $10,004.89.
All which allowances were granted under the original act
of April 12, 1848, and were paid to the claimants as fast as
the auditor furnished his statements.
The claimants,.still feeling aggrieved, renewed their application to Congress, and asked relief from the ruling of the
auditor; "complaining that he had excluded certain depositions, which he deemed not properly aithentieated.- Thereupon, oil December 22,1854, Congress passed a supplemental
act, directing.the auditor to re-examine the'case, and to allow
the claimants the bpnefit of the depositions theretofore rejected, provided they were then legally authenticated, the
adjustment under this supplemental act to be made in strict
,accordance with the previous act. - What steps, if Any, were
taken under this supplemental act by the auditor, was not
stated.
On' the 8d of June, 1858, a joint resolution was passed,
devolving upon the Secretary of War the execution of the
supplemental ,act above referred to, directing him to proceed
de novo to execute the 'act hud its supplement according to
their plain and obvious meaning, bpt to deduct from any
amount wliich might be found'justly and 'quitably due to the
claimants all sums which had been previously paid.'
The Secretary of War proceeded to examine the case, and
estimated the value of the property destroyed at a sum
higher by $158 than the auditor had done; but he alsb found
that all the property had beei destroyedby the troops, and
none of it by the -Indiats. Thereupon he allowed for the

Dec. 1868.]

GORDON V. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of thg case.

entire value of the property, instead of half its value, and,
added interest from the date of the destruction,making a further
sum of $39,217.50. This' sum was also paid to the claimants.
Still dissatisfi"ed, another petition was presented by the
claimants to Congress, and on the 1st of June, 1860, another
joint resolution was passed, authorizing and requiring the
Secretary of War to revise his execution of the supplemental
act aforesaid, and on such revision to give effect to all the
testimony filed, including the depositions formerly rejected
by the auditor, and to restate and resettle the account, and,
to make such corrections in his former statemetit and settle.
ment, and such further allowances, if any, as, in his opinion,
justice to the claimants should require. The Secretary of War
(then Mr. Floyd) did revise his statement and resettle the
account; and on the 23d November, 1860, stated his conclusions in favor of the claimants, making a'fqrther allowance,
of .$66,519.85.*
The object of the9petition now filed in the Court of Claims
was, to obtain from this court a judgment for this further
allowance of $66,519.85.
It appeared, however, that on the 2d of March, 1861,.
Congress had passed a joint resolution declaring the resolution of the 1st of June, 1860, under which the Secretary of
War had made' the last allowance, rescinded,and pronounced
the same and all the proceedings under it null and void.
But the petitioners averred, that this repealing resolution
was passed without their knowledg or consent,'and without
notice to them. 'By reason of it they had not been paid.
The petition was demurred to by the United States.
The court below, considering that there was no cause of
action set up in the petition save that founded upon the'find.
ing qf. the Secretary of War, under the resolution approvp(l
June 1, 1860, styled an award, and holding that that resoluThe entire sum thus hllowed, it was said by the court below, was composed of ipiterest. But this statement was alleged by the claimant to be i
m'stake.-Rr.

192.

GORDOW V. U'ITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Arguments for the appellant and appellee.

tion, and all action under it, became nullby the repeal of
March 2, 1861, sustained the demurrer and dismisced the
petition.
The only question, therefore, presented here, Was, whether
the court below gave a proper construction to the repealing
rosolution of March 2, 1861. It was, however, asserted by
the claimant, that if this construction was erroneous, this
court ought to give the sarne-judgment which, the court below should have given, to wit: a judgment for the amount
of the award with interest. The whole subject of interest,
as allowed in the awards, was also made a matter of discussion.
_17r. Bennett, for the appellant, contended, that au award
having been made under the law of 1860, the repeal of the
law of 1861 could not divest it. Rights had vested. "In
such a case," says Dr. Bouvier,* "the rights acquired are
left unaffected." That in fact the arbitrator having made
and published his award, the resolution of June 1st, 1860,
was executed, apd nothing remained to be repealed. The
case came thus within the principle of Bayne v. Morris.t
As respected interest : All money due and unpaid properly
draws interest. An exception is made in favor of governments, because they are presumed to be always ready to pay,
and that any non-payment is owing to the fault of the creditor in not lresenting his claim. Here the pre~umption'is
rebutted in every part of the case. As respected the awards
of interest (though they were not"now in question) they were
right, both on general principles and under the statute.
The case was to be settled "on principles of equity and justice.'' There was to be -' a full and fair indemnity."
Mr. Norton, corlra, argued, that Bayne v. Morris was the
case of an "award" in its proper.sense, and was not applicable to this case; that on the contrary, the finding of the secretary ia cases like this had been decided inDe Grodt v. United
Stales.4 not to be an "award," nor in that sense binding.
* Law Dictionary, title "Repeal."

t 1 Wallace, 97.

1 5 Id. 432.

I

Dele. 1868.]

e.G.oN 'V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

The whole matter of interest was therefore unimportant,'
though the court could hardly fail to disapprove such allowances as had been made here.
Mr.-Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The case of Ferreira* was the first to bring before us these
claims, under the treaty with, Spain in 1819. This was in,
1857, more than thirty years after the date of the treaty. In
the opinioq of the Chief Justice in that case,t will be found
a concise history of the previous legislation of Congress on
this subject. That case was brought here by way of appeal
as from the judgment of the District Court of Florida. :And
this court was importuned to give some utterance by which
the Secretary of the Treasury might be justified in a departure from the rule adopted on the subject, with regard to the
allowance of interest. -In the argument of the case the Attorney-General said, stating the matters as historical facts:
"The first of these claims was presented to the Sectetary of,.

the Treasury for'payment in the year 1825, and others have been
constantly and successively presented from that time to the present. The number of claims thus presented was about two hundred,'and the amount paid.has exceeded one million of dbllars.
But from the first, and in every case where interest has been
allowed by the Florida judge, th principal only' was paid, and
the interest disallowed by'the Secretary of-the Treasury.. For
the last twenty-five years this has been the unvaried and uiliform
course of decision and action by.every successive Secretary of the,
Treasury who has acted on the subject, sustained by the official
oJpinions of several, attorney-generals, without the express dissent of any one of them officially declared."
But notwithstanding the persistent importunity of the parties who brought forward those stale claims,.to bbtain some
dieuni or hint of an opinion that interest for more than thirty
years should be paid, this court refused to take jurisdiction
and pronounce any opinion on the subject.
t Page 45.

* 13 Howard, 40.
VOL. VII.

13

194

GORDON,v. 'UMTED STATES.

[Sup. ,Ct.

Opinion ofthe pourt.

Since that time it appears that the treasury has bL-en
thought to labor' under the very unusual disease bf a plethora,
and the Attorney-General, unwilling to "follow in the footsteps of his'predecessors," has discovered a mode of relief
for its depletion by allowing forty years' interest to these
claimants as a reward for their laches in not pursuing them
in prope'r time.
As respects the effect of the repealing statute of March
2, 1861, the whole argument urged on behalf of the appellants is founded on a false assumption. It is asserted that
this is a case of arbitrament and award, and Was binding as
such on the government, and that the repeal of the resoln
tion of Congress could not aihect or invalidate rights vestei
by the award previously made under it. But the Secretary
of War was not an arbiratar. An arbitrator is defined* as
"a private extraordinary judge chosen by the parties who have
a matter in dispute, invested with power to decide the same."
The Secretary of War acted ministerially. The resolution conferred no Judicial. power upon him.t In order to clothe a
person with the authority of an arbitratori the parties must
mutually agree to be bound. by the decision of the person
chosen to determine' the matter in contrpversy. The resolution under which the secretary assumed to act did not
authorize him to make a final adjustment of the matter embraced ipit. It did not bind the appellant to an acceptance
of the amopnt ,reported by the secretary, or that he would
cease to clamor for more, after being a fifth time paid the
amount of damages a-marded to and accepted by him.
The joint resolution of June 1st, 1860, was the fourth resolution which had been passed-for the adjustment of the claini
of the legal representatiyes of George Fisher against the
United States, for injuries done to his property by the UniteA States troops in 1813. In pursuance of the -first three
-of these resolutions, five different alloiVauces were made in
favop ,of, and paid to the appellant, amounting in all to sixtyBouvier's Law Dictionary, title "Arbitrator."
t De Groot v. United States, 5 Wallace, 432.

Dec. 1868.]

GORDON V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

six thousand eight hundred and three dollars and thirtj-tkree cents.
If the finding: of the Secretary of War, under the joint resolution of June 1st, 1860, was final and conclusive, so also
must have been the finding and allowance of .the second
auditor of the treasury, under the joint resolution of April
12th, 1848. Yet the appellant insisted that he was not con-'
eluded by the finding of the second auditor. He claimed
and received after this allowance four additional allowances.
An arbitrament and award which concludes.one party only
is certainly an anomaly in the law. The various acts and
resolutions of Congress in this case emanated from a desire
to do justice, and to obtain the proper information as a basis
of acion, and were not intended to be submissions to the
arbitrament of the accounting officer. They were designed'
as instructions to the officer by which to adjust the accounts,
Congress reserving to itself the power to appiove, reject, or
rescind, or to otherwise act in the premises as the exigencies
of the case might require. In other words, these references
only require the officer to act in a ministerial, not a judicial
capacity.
The joint resolution of June 1st, 1860, gave the appellant.
a tribunal, before which 'his claims might be investigated.
The rppeal of that resolution only deprived him of that tri-'
bunal.. It was competent for Congress to abolish the tribunal it created f65 the adjustment of the appellant's claims,
or it might have committed them to some other authority.
In either event the claimant's right would not have been violated, only his reredy for the enforcement of those rights
would have been taken away or changed. The power that
created this tribunal might rightfully destroy it, unless some
rights had accrued which were the result of .the creation of
such tribunal, and inseparable from it. Here no such rights
had resulted from the passage of this resolution. The-appel]ant was left where that resolution found him. His right to
importune Congress'for more was not at all impaired by its
repeal.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

