DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECE

GIRARD

ER TERM, 1868.

V.

PHILADELPHIA.

1. Where a testator devises the income of property in trust primarily for one
object, and if the income is greater than that object needs, the surplus
to others (secondary ones), a bill in the nature of a bill quia timet. and
in anticipation of an incapacity in the trusts fo be executed hereafter,
and when a surplus arises (there being no'surplus now, nor the prbspect
of any), will not lie by heirs at law (supposing them otherwise entitled,
which here they were decided not to be), to have this surplus appropriated to them on the ground of the secondary trusts havng, subsequently
to th6 testator's death, become incapable of execution.
2. Neither the identity of a municipal corporation, nor its right to hold
property devised to it, is destroyed by a change of its name, an enlaigemont of its area, or an increase in the number of its corporators. And
these are changes which the legislature has power to make.
3. Under the will of Stephen Girard (for the terms of which see the case
infra), the whole final residuary of his estate, was left to the old city of
Philadelphia in trust, to apjily the income;
i. F:or the maintenanc and improvementof his college as a primary
object, and after thatii. T6 improye its police;
iii. To improve the city property and'the general appearance of the
city, and to diminish the burden of taxation:
The court having declared that so long as any portion of the income
should be found, necessary for improvement and maintenance of the col-.
lege, the spcond and third objects could claim nothing, and the whole
income being, in fact, necessary for the college,
HeZd-i. That ho question arose at this time as co whether the new
VOL.VI

1

()

GIRARD V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
city should apply the surplus under the trusts for the secondary objects
to the benefit of the new city, or to that portion'of it alope embraced in
the limits of the old one.
ii. That whether or not, the trusts being, as was decided'in Vidal v.
Girard (2 Howard, 127), in themselves valid, Girard's heirs could not
inquire or contest the right of the city corporation to take the property
or to execute the trust; this right belonging to the State alone as parems
2 afrcv.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court fbr the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania; the case as presented by bill and answer
being thus:

The city of Philadelphia, as originally laid out in 1683, and
as incorporated in 1701, was situated upon a rectangular
plot of ground, bounded in one direction by two streets
called\Vine and South, a mile apart, and in the other by two
rivers (the Delaware and Schuylkill), two miles apart;the corporate title of the city being "theMayor, Aldermen,
and Citizens of Philadelphia." Upon the neck of land
above described the corporate city continued to be contained
until 1854; the inhabitants outside or adjoinifig it being
incorporated at different times, and as their numbers extended, into bodies politic, under different names, by the
State legislature, and with the cifty, forming the county of
Philadelphia. In1798, the Revolution having dissolved the
old corporation, the legislature incorporated the city with
larger powers; and prior to 1854, nearly twenty acts had
been passed altering that law, and forming, the whole of
them, what was popularly called the charter of the city; but
as already said, from 1683 to 1854, the city limits were the
same.
In this state of things Stephen Girard,.in 1831, after sundry
bequests to his relatives and friends, and to certain specified
charities, and after announcing that his great and favorite
object was the establishment of a college for the education
of poor orphaps, and that, together with the object adverted
to, lie had sincerely at heart the welfare of the city of Philadelphia, and as a part of it, was desirous to improve the
neighborhood of the river Delaware, so that the eastern part

Dec.. 1868.]

GIRARD V. PILkDELP.IA.
Statement of the case.

of the city might be made better to corfespond with the into-.
tior-left by will the real and personal residue of an estatek
of some millions of dollars, to "the Mayor, Aldermen and
'Citizens of Philadelphia," that is to say, to the city corporatlon above described, in trust, so far as regarded his real
estate in Pennsylvania (this being the important part of his
realty), that no part of it should ever be alienated, but
should be let on lease, and that after repairing and improving it, the net residue should be applied to the same purposes as the residue of his personal estate, and that as regarded that, it should be held in trust as to $2,000,000, to
expend it, or as much as might'be necessary, in constructing
aid furnishing a, college and out-buildings for the education
and maintenance of not less than three hundred orplhans.
A lot near Philadelphia, of forty-five acres, wasdevoted for
these structures, and the orphans might come from an r part

of Pennsylvania (orphans from the city of Philadelphia
having a preference dyer others outside), or from the cities'
of New York or New Orleans.
After many and, very special directions as to thecollege,
followbd by a bequest of $500,000 for a city purpose, the will
proceeded.:.

"If the income arising from that part of the said sum of
$2,000,000 remaining after the construction and furnishing of
the college and out-buildings shall, owing to the increase of the
number of orphans applying for admission, or other causeo be
inadequate, to the bonstruction of,new buildings, or the maintenance and education of as many orphans as may apply for ad;
mission, then such further sum asmay be necessary for the constrwc)ion of new buildings, and the maintenance and education
of such further number of orphans as can be maintained and
instructed within such buildings, as the said square of ground
shall be adequate to, shall be taken from the flnal residuaryfundhereinafter expressly referred to for the.pui'pose, comprehending
-the income of my real estate in the city :and county of Philadelphia,
and the dividends of my stock iii the Schuylkill Navigation Com-

pany; my design and desire being that the bdn6fits of said institution shall be' extended to as great a number of orphanR

-IRARD

V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

as the limits of the said square and buildings therein can accommodate."
This final residuary fund was directed to be invefted, and
the income applied"1st. To the further improvement and maintenance of the
aforesaid college [as directed in the last quoted paragraph].
'2d. To enable the city to improve its police.
"3d. To enable it to improve the city property, and the
general appearance of the city itself, and in effect to diminish
the burden of taxation, now most oppressive."
"To all which objects," the will proceeded, "the prosperity of the city, and the health and cpmfort of its inhabitants, I devote the said fund as aforesaid, and direct the income thereof to be applied yearly and every year forever,
after providing for the college as hereinbefore directed as my primary object."
In conclusion, he directed that if the city should wilfully
violate any of the conditions of his will, the remainder of
his estate should go to the commonwealth of Pennsy:lvania
for certain purposes, excepting, however, the income from
his real estate in the city and county of Philadelphia, which
it was to hold for the college; and if the commonwealth
failed so to apply it, the remainder should go in the same
way to the i0 nited States.
The above described city corporation, "the Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Philadelphia," having accepted the
trust, and built and furnished the college and out-buildings,
administcred the charity through its organs until 1854. By
that time twenty-eight municipal corporations, making the
residue of the county, had grown up around the old "city;"
some near, some far off, some populous, some occupied yet
by farms. They comprised "districts," boroughs, townships, were of various territorial extent, and diiered in the
details of their respective organizations. In the year named,
the legislature of *Pennsylvania passed what is known in
Philadelphia as the Consolidation Act.

De6.1868.]

GIRARD
6
V. PHILADELPHIA.

Statement of the case.

By this act the administration 'of all concerns of the
twenty-nine corporations, including their debts, taxes, property, police, and whatever else pertained to municipal office,
and also the government of the county itself; were consolidated into one. All the powers, rights, privilege§, and
immunities incident to a municipal corpo ation, and necessary for the proper government of the same, and those or
"the Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Philadelphia," and
"all the powers, rights, privileges, and immunities, possessed and enjoyed by the other twenty-eight corporate
bodies, which, with the old city, made up the county of
Philadelphia;" and also "the board of police of the polic'e
district, the commissioners of the county of Philadelphia,
the treasurer and auditor thereof, the county board, the commissioners of the sinking fund, and the supervisors of the
township,' were, *by virtue of the process of consolidation,
vested in "the city of Philadelphia, ,As established by this
act." A police board was to fix the whole number of policemen "for the service of the whole city." The "right, title, and
interest," of the ",everal municipal corporations mentioned
in this act, of, in, and to all the lands, tenements, and hereditaments,, goods, chattels, moneys, eflHcts, and of, in, and to
all other property and estate whatsoever and wheresoever,
belonging to any, or either of. them," were "vested in the
cityof Philadelphia," and all "estates and incomes held in
trust by the county, present city, and each of the townships,
districts, and other municipal corporations, united by this
act," were "vested in the city, of Philadelphia, upon andfor
the same uses, trusts, limitations, charities,and conditions, as .the
same are now held by the said corporations respectively."
The act also declared that the new city cqrporation should
be "vested with all the powers, rights, privileges, and immunities," of the old one. 'The "net debt .of the countfy of
Philadelphia, and, the several net debts of the guardians for
the relief and. employment of the poor of the city of Philadelphia," and of the board of health, "afid of the controllers of the public schools," and of such of the said
twenty-nine municipalities, eighteen being enumerated, as

GIRARD V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

had contracted debts, were consolidated and formed into
one debt, to be called the debt of the city of Philadelphia,
in lieu of the present separate debts so consolidated. The
consolidation was carried into fulj effect. The act provided
that thb corporators of the new city, having elected a mayor
and councils, the councils should direct the mayor to appoint a day when "all the powers, rights, privileges, and
immunities possessed and enjoyed" by the various corporations, and those also of thp old city, should "'cease and terminate;" and the councils did accordingly, by resolution,
direct the mayor to "issue his proclamation forthwith dissolving the aifferent corporations superseded by the act, to
take effect, on the 80th iuntant ;" and in obedience thereto,
the mayor, by public proclamation, dated the 24th June, 1854,
proclaimed that "all the powers, rights, privileges, and immunities possessed and enjoyed" by the now late twentyeight municipalities, and "by the present mayor and councilmen" of the city of Philadelphia, from the said 30th day
of June, 1854, should "cease and terminate."
The old city covered about two square miles; the new
one, which covered the whole old county of Philadelphia,
about a hundred and twenty-nine. In point of population,
however, the old city embraced a fourth or fifth part of all
the inhabitants of the new one. In the popular branch of
the new city legislature, composed of eighty-five members,
the old city enjoyed twenty. In the higher branch it had
six members, the residue having eighteen. The debt of the
old city had been small, and its credit high. By the consolidation the debt became large.
By the Consolidation Act, it may be well to add, the coun
cils of the city, in laying taxes, were required so to lay them
as to show how much was ]aid for each object supported,
respectively, and this exhibition was required by the act to
be printed on the tax-bills furnished to the tax-payers, as
thus:
"For the relief of the poor, 15 cents in th6 $100 of the as.
sessed value of said property.

De. 1868.].

GIRAR-D V. PHIIADLPWIA.
Argument for the heirs.

"For public schools, 28 cents in the $100 of the asessed value
of said property.
"For lighting the city, 9 cents in the $100 of the assessed
value of said property.
SC
For loa-i tax, 75 cents i the $100 of the assessed value of
said property.
"1For
expenses of police, 22 cents in the $100 of the assessed-value
of said property, &6., &c., &c.
In the erection and furnishing of the college and outbuildings, the whole fund of $2,000,000 was exhausted, and
the whole income of the final residuary fund was now habitually drawn upon for the maintenance and education of the
orphans, nunibering, at the time when the bill was filed,
about three hundred and thirty, and limited to this number,
because the income from even the residuary fund was iuadequate to the maintenance an4 education of a greater number. Howevei, a part of Girard's estate consisted of coal
lands in Pennsylvania, not yet ripe for being workedi whose
value was largely increasing, and from which, when it should
be found expedient to work them, the revenue would, perhaps, be very great.
In this state of things certain heirs of Girard filed their
bill in the court below, praying an account; and that a master might be appointed to inquire into the gross value, anhl
then present capacity for annual yield of the coal lands, and
if such an inquiry showed a capacity for afibrding incone
"immensely" 'beyond all the wants of the college, and all
proper charges on the estate, that then, if the court should
be of opinion that the whole residuary estate was applicable
to the college (a matter denied by the bill), that it would
decree "such surplus, found to exist beyond and beside all
possible and lawful wants of the college," &c., to the complainants.
The court below dis'nissed the kill, which action of it was
the ground of the appeal.
Mfr. . Ingersoll, for the heirs, admitting that the validity
of the trusts of. Girard's will had been settled by this court

GIRARD V. PHILADELPHIA['

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the heirs.

in Tidal v. Girard,* and stating that the present case turned
upon the supposed intention of the testator, contended:
1. That the final residuary fund, applicable'to the support
of the college, was only that described as "my real estate in
the city and county of Philadelphia, and the dividends of
my stock in the Schuylkill Navigation Company," and that
of the coal lands, and other remaining property, Girard had
died intestate.
2. That if this were not so, yet, that with the complete
annihilation of the old city corporation, and its absorption
or merger into the immense body politic created by the Consolidation Act, the whole object of the testator, beyond the
college, fell to the ground; that
(i.) The new city became inoompetent to act as a trustee,
and
(ii.) That if it still were, competent, the trusts themselves,
beyond the college, were now incapable of execution.
The old city-" the city "-was, after the college, the sole
object of Girard's bounty. The suburbs were absolutely
excluded from it. He wished to improve, finish, and adorn
municipal work already far advanced; an object practicable
when the city was but two miles square, and mostly built
on; impracticable when an immense county-with swamps
to be drained, hills to be levelled, and valleys to be raised;
iIrm land largely, a suburb sempiternal-was d6nverted by
name, but not in fact, into a city. The whole city legislature was changed. To disunite the controi from the beneficial interest, and give the command to those who are not
citizens, is to violate the will. Yet those who, by the will,
would now have the control of the Girard estates, were a
feeble minority, incapable of protecting it against those who
had an interest immediately opposed to its going to the
limited space which the testator designed, and an interest
,directly in favor of appropriating it to themselves. The
devise was to municipal discretion; the discretion of the
late city; a discretion controllable by its own citizens. The
* 2 Howard, 127.

ne. -1869.].

GIRARD' V. PHILDELPHIA.
Argument for the heirs.

testator having excluded all parts but that known to him as
the city, the new city could not hol4 the estated for itself;
that is to say, for the region of th'e twenty-nine municipalities, twenty-eight of which were not devisdd to, but excluded
froin devise. Having had a right, as he had, to devise as
he did, to one municipality exclusively of the others, no
legislature could make over his property to the excluded
districts, contrary to his will. Conceding that perhaps the
franchises of the old city might have been extended overmore territory, and its capacities enlarged,'yet the annexaItion of twenty-eight municipalities, and the-addition of sixtyfour times more territory, with room for sixty-four times
more population, and the consolidation and merger of them'
with the city, and, a complete fusion and recast of the whole-this was a different thing. The old city had, moreover, been,
in'form, dissolved; and, if it had not been, yet the body now
pretending to \be the devisee, was a body unknown to the
testator; one composed of elements foreign to his devise; in
fact, not his devisee.- The devise had so lapsed. The new
city was thus unfit and incapable of being trustee, even if
the trusts, after and beyond the college, were longer capable
of being executed. But
2. These'trusts could not now, either administratively'or
arithmetipally, be executed.
In Soohan v. The City,* decided after the Consolidation Act,
it was held that orphans, born in the limits of the old city,
were entitled to the same preference as they had previously
enjoyed; in other words, that orphans born beyond the
limits of the old city were not, in the sense of the will,
orphans born in the city; in fast, that the old city and new
city were not the same thing. E ow.was the police of the
old city since the consolidation to be, improved? In te first
place the old city no longer existed. Moreover, the testator
could not endow one part of the police; for the force is not
divided into parts. There, is no police for the old city apart
'from the remaining region which With it makes the new
83 Penntylvania State, 9.-

GIRARD V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Or.

Argument for the city.

city. The police is one. - The policemen are by the terms
of the act to be "for the whole city." It spreads undivided,
and everywhere alike.
Or how apply the income, easily applied to beautify the
ancient city, to improve the "general appearance" of a region d hundred and twenty-nine miles square, far the larger
part of which was no city, but on the coitrary, farms?
Or how apply it to diminish taxation in the old city, taxes
being of necessity now laid uniformly throughout the whole
vastly greater region alke?
The doctrine of cy-pres, illustrated in Richard Baxter's
well-known case,* was inapplicable to our States, where
there was no established religion, and did not help the matter. The surplus income beyond the wants of the college
thus went, the learned counsel contended, to the heirs.
Messrs. Meredith and Olmstead, contra:
1. The college is the object to which all others are subservient. And if the trusts for municipal purposes cannot
be executed by any one, then the whole trust estate must be
applied for the purposes of the college.t Public trusts and
charitable trusts may be considered as synonymous.1
2.' The trust for municipal purposes .was to have effect
only if there was a surplus beyond the wants of the college.
There is no such surplus. -There can be, therefore, no question now. And with forty-five acres of ground to be covered
by college buildings, and the whole State of Pennsylvania
with the cities of New York and New Orleans as a field
from which to bring fatherless children, it is not likely that
any surplus will ever arise. Coal dug from coal lands is not
income from those lands. It is the land itself. When the
coal is exhausted, as by mining it will be, the land has little
1 Vernon, 248.
t Case of Thqtford School, 8 Reports, 131; Pickering v. Shotwell, 10
Pennsylvania State, 23; McLain v,School Directors, 51 Id. 196; City V.
Girard's Heirs, 45 Id. 28.
1 Cresson's Appeal, 30 Pennsylvania State, 450; Magill v. Brown, Brighthy, 360; Attorney General v. Aspinwall, 2 Mylne & Craig, 622.

De6:186.8.].

GIE-ARD V. PHILADELPHrA.
Argument for the city.

value. The proceeds of the coal.must be invested as capital,
and income from it alone used.'
8. The Consolidation Act by, express terms declared that
trusts held by any of 'th'e old corporations should remain inviolate in the ne W. Independently of which, the change'of
name or enlargement of franchises does not destroy the,
identity.of a municipal corporation.*
4, The devise for municipal purposes-if it be a devise in
trust and not a gift to the mayor, aldermen, &e., absolutely
(in which latter case clearly the heirs have no right to an
account)-can be executed if'ever a surplus shall exist.. Our,
afiswer to the bill illustrates some of the modes. It hays-:
"9The defendants can apply such surplus to tfie cost of main
taining'the police in that part of the new city which formerly
made the-old one, and, reduce the- rate of taxation for the sup."
port'of the police, on the property situated within these limits,
to the difference between the sum applicable from the residuary
for that purpose, and ihe sum assessed on property outside' of"
the said limits; and if the.sum applicable from the said residuary
for the expenses of the pqlice,'will ,amount to the whole sum
necessary' for such expenses within the said 'limits, they may
levyne tax'upon property within the said limits for such' expenses. If such surplus will exceed the afount needed for the
police expenses -ithin the said limits, they will be enabled to
improv6 the corporate 'property -within the said limits, or apply
it to improve the appearance of that portion of the city without
'resort to taxation for that purpose. And if it will be within
the terms ol the trust to disregard the specific objects mentigned, then they may and can pay such
which is needed for the nec6ssities of the
the city treasury in aid of 'the tax fund,
upon the property within the said limits a
so paid in aid of that fand." t

surplus, beyond that
collegq, directly, into
and levy and assess'
sum less the amount

5. If the trust for municipal purposes has been forfeited
by the aes of the trustees, then by the terms of'the will,
Luttrel's Case, 4 Reports, 88; Haddock's Case, Sir T.
S. C. 1 'Ventris, 855.
t See Kirby v. Shaw, 19 Pennsylvania Statei 258.

Raymond,

439

12

GIRARD V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. CtL

Opinion of the court.

it is forfeited to the commonwealth. But if it cannot be
executed, and if the "ollege is not entitled to take the
income, who is entitled to the funds? The commonwealth,
as parens patrie. If the devise had been to A. and his
heirs, and A. had died without heirs, the estate would not
go to the heirs of the testator, but would escheat. There
is no reason why, in the case of a devise in trust for a charity,
which has vested and taken effect and fails, a different rule
should exist.*
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered -the opinion of the court,
and after observing thht the attempt to restrain the alienation
of the realty, being inoperative, could not affect the validity
ot the devise, and that the income of the whole residuary
was devoted' to the three objects stated by the testator, the
college being the "primary object," and that so long as any
portion of this residuary fund should be found necessary for
5'its improvement and maintenance," on the plan and to the
extent declared in the will, the second and third objects could
claim nothing-proceeded as follows:
The bill admits this to be a valid charity, and claims only
the residue after that is satisfied. Now, it is admitted (for
it has been so decided),t that till February, 1854, the corporation was vested with a complete title to the whole residue
of the estate of Stephen Girard, subject to these charitable
trusts, and consequently, at that date, his heirs at law had
nb right, title, or interest whatsoever in the same. But the
bill alleges that the act of the legislature of that date
(commonly called the "Consolidation Act"), which purports to be a supplement to the original act incorporating
the city, has either dissolved or destroyed the identity of the
original corporation, and it is consequently unable any longer
to administer the trust. Now, if this were true, the only
Attorney-Generai v. Ironmongers' Company, 2 Bevan, 313; Magill v.
Brown, Brightly, 395; Fountain v. Ravenal, 17 Howard, 369; Guardians of
the Poor v. Green, 5 Binney, 558; Cresson's Appeal, 30 -Pennsylvania State,
t50.
t Vidal v Girard, 2 Howard, 127.

Dec. 1868.]

eGIRARD V. PHILAi)ELPHIA.
Opinion df the court.

conseqhence would be, not that the charities or trust should
fail, but thatthe chancellor should substitute another trustee.
Itis not insisted that the mere change or abbreviation of
the name has destroyed the identity of the corporation. The
bill even admits that a small addition to its teiritory and
jurisdictionmight not have that effect, but that the annexation of twenty-nine boroughs and townships has smothered
it to death, or rendered it utterly incapable of administering
trusts or charities committed to it when its boundaries were
Vine and South Strefts, and the two rivers. There is nothing to be found in the letter or spirit of this act which shows
any intention in the legislature to destroy the original corporation, either by changing its name,-enlarging its territory,
or increasing the number of its corporators. On the contrary, "all its powers, rights, privileges and immninities, &c.,
are continued' in full vigoi and effect." It provides, also,
that "all the estates, &e.," held by any of the corporations
united by the act, shall be held "upon and for the same
uses, trusts, limitations, charities, and conditions, as the
same were then held."
By the act of 4th of April, 1852, the corporation was
"authorized to exercise all such jurisdiction, to enact all
such ordinances, and to do and execute all such acts and
things whatsoever, as may be necessary for the full and entire acceptance, execution, and prosecution of any and all
the devises, bequests; trusts, and provisions contained in
said will." It may. also "provide, by ordinance or otherwise, for the election and appointment of such officers and.
agents as they may deem essential to the due execution of
the duties and trusts enjoined and created by-the Will of the
late Stephen Girard."
Now, it cannot be pretended that the legislature had not
the power to appoint another trustee if the act had dissolved
the corporation, or to continue the rights, duties, trusts, &c.,
in the enlarged corporation.. It has done so, and has given
the widest powers to the trustee to administer the trusts and
charities, according to the intent of the testator, as declared
in his will.

14

GIRARD V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The legislature may alter, modify, or even annul the franchises of a public.municipal corporation, although it may not
impose burdens on it without its consent. In this case the
corporation has assented to accept the changes, assume the
burdens, and perform the duties imposed upon it; and it is
difficult to conceive how they can have forfeited their right
to the charities which the law makes it their duty to administer. The objects of the testator's charity remain the same,
while the city, large or small, exists; the trust is an existing
and valid one, the trustee is vested by law with the estate,
and the fullest power and authority to execute the trust.
Whatever the fears or fancy of the complhinants may be,
as to the moral ability of this overgrown corporation, there
is no necessary or natural inability which prohibits it from
administering this charity as faithfully.as it could before its
increase. In fact, it is a matter in which the complainants
have no concern whatever, or any right to intervene. If the
trust be not rightly administered, the eestui que trust, or the
sovereign may require the courts to compel a proper execution.
In the case of Vidal,* the Supreme Court say, that "if.
the trusts were in themselves valid in point of law, it is
plain that. neither the heirs of the testator, or any other
private person, would have any right to inquire into or conteat the right of the corporation to take the property or
execute the trust; this' would exclusively belong to the State
in its sovereign capacity, and as parens patrie, and its sole
discretion."
This is not an assertion that the, legislature, -as parens
patri6e, may interfere, by retrospective acts, to exercise the
ey-pres power, which has become so odious from its applica.
tion in England to what were called superstitious uses.
Ba'xter's case, and other similar ones, cannot be precedents
where there is no established church which treats all dissent
as superstition. But it cannot admit of a doubt that, where
there is a valid devise to d corporation, in trust for chari.
* 2 Howard, 191.

Dec. IS68.]

GIRARD V. PHILADELPHIA.
Opinion of the court.

table purposes, unaected by any question as t6 its validity
because of superstition, the sovereign may interfere to en-force the execution of the trusts, either by changing the
administrator, if the corporation be dissolved, or, if not, by
mbdifying or enlarging its franchises, provided the trust be
not perverted, and no wrong done to the beneficiaries.
Where the trustee is a corporation, no modification of its
franchises, or change in its-name, while its identity remains,
can affect its rights to hold property devised to -it for any
purpose. Nor can a valid vested estate, in trust, lapse or
become forfeited by an' misconduct in the trustee, or inability in the cbrporation to execute it, if such existed, Oharity
never fails; and it is the right, as well as the duty of the
sovereign, by its courts and public offioers, as also' by legislation (if needed)) to have the charities properly adminis-tered.
Now, there is no complaint here that the charity, so far
as regards the primary and great object of the testator, is
not properly administered; and it does not appear that there
now is, or ever will be, any residue to epply to the secondary
objects. If that time should ever arrive, the question,
whether the charity shall be so applied as to have the "effect to diminish the burden of taxation" on all the corporation, or *onlythose within the former boundaries of the city,
will have to be decided. The case of Soohan v. The City,
does not decide it; nor is this court bound to decide it. , The
answer shows how it may be done, and the corporation has
ample power conferred on 'it to execute the trust according
to either hypothesis;. and, if further powers were necessary,
the legislature, executing the -sovereign power, can certainly grant them. In the meantime the heirs at law of the
testator have no concern in-the matter, or any rigbt to interfere by a bill quia timet. Their anticipations of-the future
perversion of the charity by the corruption or folly of.the.
enlarged corporation, and the moral impossibility of its just
administration, are not sufficient reasons for the interference
of this court to seize upon the fund, or any partof it, and
to deliver it-up to the complainants, who never had, and by

THE BANKS V. THE MAYOR.

[Sup. -Q.

Syllabus.

the will of Stephen Girard, were not intended to have any
right, title, or claim whatsoever to the propbrty.
In. fine, the bill was rightly dismissed, because:
1st. The residue of the estate of Stephen Girard, at the
time of his death, was, by his will, vested in the corporation
oii valid legal trusts, which it was fully competent to execute.
2d. By the supplement to the act incorporating tile city
(commonly called the "Consolidation Act"); the identity of
the corporation is not destroyed; nor can the change in its
name, the enlargement of its area, or increase in the number of its corporators, affect its title to property held at the
time of such change.
3d. The corporation, under its amended charter, has every
capacity to hold, and every power and authority necessary
to execute the trusts of the will.
4th. That the difficulties anticipated by the bill, as to the
executiop of the secondary trusts, are imaginary. They
have not arisen, and most probably never will.
5th. And if they should, it is a matter, whether probable
or improbable, with which the complainants have no concprn, and cannot have on any possible -contingency.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE BANKS v. THE MAYOR.
1. Where an act of a State legislature authorized the issue of bonds, by way
of refunding to banks such portions of a tax as had been assessed on
Federal securities inade by the Constitution and statutes of the United
States exempt. from' taxation, and the officers who were empowered to
issue the obligations refused to sign them, because, as they alleged, a
portion of the securities for the tax on which the bank claimed reimbursement, was, in law, not exempt, and the highest court of the State
sanctioned this refusal: Held, that this was a decision by a State court
against a right, privilege, or immunity claimed under the Constitution or
a statute of the United States, and so that this court had jurisdiction, under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, and the amendatoiy act o6 Fbbruary 5th, 1867.
2. Certificates of indebtedness issued by the United States to creditozs of the

