THE GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ot-

Statement of the case.

THE GEORGIA.
1. A case in prize heard on furthe proofs, though the transcript disclosed
no order for such proofs; it having been plain, from both parties having
joined in taking them, that either there was such an order, or that the
proofs were taken by consent.
2. A bond fide purchase for a commercial purpose by a neutral, in his own
home port,, of a ship of war of a belligerent that had fled to. such port in
order to escape frorm enemy vessels in pursuit, but which was bond fide
dismantle4 prior to the sale and afterwards fitted up for the merchant
service, does not pass a title above the right of capture by the other
belligerent.
APPEAL from the District Court for Massachusetts, con
demning as prize the steamship Georgia, captured during
the late rebellion. The case, as derived from the evidence
of all kinds taken in the proceedings, was thus:
The vessel had been built, as it appeared, in the years
1862-3, at Greenock, on the Clyde, as a war vessel, for the
Confederate government, and called the Japan; or if nbt
thus built, certainly passed into the hands of that g6vernment early in the'spring of 1863. On the 2d of April of
that year, uflder the guise of a trial trip, she steamed to an
obscure French port near Cherbourg, where she was joined
by a, small steamer with armaments and a crew from Liverpool. This armament and crew were immediately transferred to the Japan, upon which the Confederate flag was
hoisted, under the orders of Captain Maury, who had on
board a full complement of officers. Her name was then
changed to the Georgia, and she set out from port on a cruise
against the commerce of the United States. After being
thus employed for more than a year-having in the meantime captured and burnt many vessels belonging to citizens
of the United States-she returned and entered the port
of Liverpool on the 2d of May, 1864, a Confederate vessel
of war, with all her armament and complement of officers
and crew on board. At the time she thus entered the port
of Liverpool, the United States vessels of war, Kearsarge,
Niagara, and Sacramento, were cruising off the British and

Dec. 1868.]

THE GEORGIA.
Statement of the case.

French coasts in search of her, the Alabama, and other vessels of the rebel confederation. It was resolved at Liverpool
that she should be sold. It appeared that Captain Bullochi
an agent of the Confederacy at the port, at first thought of
selling her at private sale, together with her full armament;
but failing in that, she was advertised for public sale the
latter part of May and the first of 'une. A certain Edward
Bates, a British subject and a merchant of Liverpool, dealing
not unfi'equently in vessels, attracted by the advertisements,
entered into treaty "abouit her. The broker concerned in
making . sale of her, testified that "Bates was desirous of
knowing what would buy the ship, but he wished the armament excluded, as he did not want that." Acciording to the
statement of Bates himself, it had occurred to him that with
her armament on board he might have difficulty in procuring a registry at the customs. All the guns, armament, and
stores of that description, were taken out at Birkenhead, her.
dock when she first entered the port at Liverpool. The vessel had been originally strongly built, her deck especially;
and thi- was strengthened by .supports and stanchions.
Though now. dismantled, the deck remained as it was; the
traces of pivot guns originally there still remaining. The
adaptation of the vessel to her new service cost, it seemed,
about £8000. How long she remained in port before she
was dismantled was not distinctly in proof, though probably
but a few weeks. The sale to Bates was perfected on the'
11th Jtne, 1864, by his payment of £15,000, and a bill of
sale of the vessel from Bulloch, the agent of the Confederacy.
He afterwards fitted her up for the merchant service, and
chartered her to the government of Portugal for a voyage
to Lisbon, and thence to the Portuguese settlements on the
African coast. The testimony failed to show any complicity
whatever of Bates with the Confederate purposes. But he
had a general knowledge of the Georgia's career and history,
testifying in his examination "that he knew from common'
report that she had been employed as a Confederate cruiser,
but thought that, if the United States government had aqy
objection to the sale, they or'their officers would have given
Vo.

VI•

3l4,

TnE GEoRGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

some public intimation of-it, as the sale was advertised in
the most public manner."
The American minister at the court of London, Mr. Adams,
who was cognizant of the vessel's history from the beginning, and had kept himself informed of all her movements
and changes of ownership, having, on the 14th March, 1868,
called the attention of Earl Russell, the British Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, to the rule of public law, affirmed by
the courts of Great Britain, which rendered invalid the saje
of belligerent armed ships to neutrals in time of war, and
insisting on its observance during the war of the rebellion,
and having remonstrated, on the 9th of May, 1864, against
the use made by the Georgia of her Majesty's port of Liverpool, informed him, on the 7th of June following, and just
b'efore the completion of the transfer to Bates, that the Federal government declined "to recognize the validity of the
sale of this armed vessel, heretofore engaged in carrying on
war against the people of the United States, in a neutral
port, and claimed the right of seizing it wherever it may be
found on the 14igh seas." Simultaneously with this note
Mr. Adams addressed a circular to the commanders of the
different war vessels of the United States, cruising on seas
over which the Georgia was likhly to pass in going to Lisbon, informing them thatin his opinion "she might be made
lawful prize whenever and under'whatever colors she should
be found."* Leaving Liverpool on the 8th August, 1864,
the vessel was accordingly captured by the United States
ship of war Niagara, off the coast of Portugal, on the 15th
following, and sent into New Bedford, Massachusetts, for
condemnation. A claim was interposed by Bates, who afterwai'ds, on the 31st January, 1865, filed a test affidavit Averring that he was the sole owner of the vessel, was a merchant
in Liverpool, and a large owner of vessels, that he had fitted
out the Georgia at Liverpool for sea, and chartered her to
* Correspondence between Mr. Adams and Earl Russell, and Mr. Adams
anu Mr. Seward, communicated- with the President's messages to the first

and second sessions of tb s Thirty-eighth Congress.

Dec. 1868. ]

THE GEORGIA.
Argument for the purchaser.

the Portuguese government for a voyage -to. Lisbo n, and
thence to the Portuguese settlements on the"coast of Africa,
and that while on her voyage to Lisbon in a peaceable manner, she was captured, as already stated.
The proofs in the case were not confined to the documentary evidence found on board the prize, and to the answers
to the standing interrogatories in preparatorio,but the case
was heard before the court below without restriction, and
without any objection in it upon additional depositions and
testimony, although, so far as the printed transcript of the
record before the court showed, no order for further proof
had been made. The counsel of both government and claimant, however; had joined in taking the additional testimony,
qnd among the witnesses was Bates himself, whose deposition with its.exhibits occupied fifty-six pages out of the one
hundred and forty-seven which made the transcript.
'The court below condemned the vessel.

Mri. Marvin,for the claimant, appellant in this case:
It was the duty of the court below, and it is the duiy of
this court now, to hear the case upon the documents found
on the vessel, and the depositions in preparatorio,*as there
was no order for further proof, or ub other evidence. This
is not a mere matter: of practice, but it is the very' essence
of prize law.t The ease not having been so heard in the
court below, and no order for further proof having been
granted by the court, all the other depositions should be disregarded by this court. If they are so disregarded, the captors have, we assume it to be plain, no case.
Bu,t waiving this, and taking the case as presented on the
whole testimony,.this question arises: "Does a neutral, who
purchases from one of two belligerents, in good faith and
for commercial purposes, in his own home port, a vessel
lying there, which had been used by-such belligerent as a
* Paper of Sir William Scott and Sir John Nicholl, addressed to his Ex.
cellency John Jay, 1 Robinson, Appendix, 390; The Hasbet 6 Id. 54.
t 3 Phillimoze" 594, 478.

TiiE

GEORGIA.

[Sup. Or.

TnE GEoRGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the captors.

vessel of war, but which had been disarmed, take a good
title as against the right of capture of the other belligerent?"
We think that he does. No principle of international law
prohibits a neutral, in his home port, from buying from or
selling to any person, any and every species of property.
In a home neutral port there is no room for the operation
of international interdicts; nor does international law invalidate any sales made in such port. Indeed, sound policy
requires that the enemy should be allowed and even encouraged to sell his naval vessels. They cannot be blockaded
in a neutral port, and can escape out of such port when they
will. - The right to tho chances of capturing them on the
ocean is of .much less value toa belligerent than their absende from the ocean "would be.
The validity of the purchase of the enemy's merchant
ships by a neutral, even where the purchase and transfer
have been effected in the enemy's port, under blockade, has
tieen. fully recognized.*. Can this case be distinguished in
principle? We think that it cannot.
Mr. Evars, Attorney- General-, and Mr. Ashton, Assistant
.Attorney-General, contra:
1. This court is entitled to look into all the proofs found
in the -record. The depositions, by way of further proof,
were obviously taken and introduced into the cause by- the
agreement and consent of the parties.
2. When" a neutral deals with belligerent privates about
private property, his dealings are generally lawful; but when
he deals with 'a belligerent sovereign, when the su ject of
dealing are public vessels, public funds, public property of
any kind, it is unlawful. While neutrals have rights, so too
they bave.obligations; obligations founded on the 'rights of
belligerents. Thus neutrals cannot give assistance to one
belligerent when reduced by the other to distress. Hence
it is that a neutraLmay be captdred and condemned if at. The Sechs Geschwistern. 4'Robinson, 101; The Virilantia, 6 Id. 123;
TIfe Bernon, I Id. 102.

Dec. 1868.]

THE GEO0.PIA.
Argument for the captors.

tempting to run a blockade, or if carrying contraband; and
hence, too, that articles not otherwise contraband of war become so when sent to aid an enemy reduced to distress.
This is the principle which we seek to apply. Suppose an
armed vessel driven into a neutral port by cruisers who lie
outside, and who would capture her the moment she came
out. In such a case any truly neutral government would
refuse to have its ports used as places of refuge. The vessel
would have to sail out, and would sail of course into the jaws
of capture. But if the hard-pressed enemy can dismantle
and sell, how is neutrality maintained? The purchase-money
can be taken at once and applied to other warlike purposes;
to'the purchase or building of new ships in new places. The
law bf nations cannot be charged with the inconsistency of
pr6hibiting a neutral from permitting the use of his territory by a belligerent as an asylum for his vessels of war, and
on"the other, of sufferin- the sale of such vessels within neutral protection, by whic the same advantage may be gained
by the belligerent as if he had an absolute rFight to employ
the neutral territory as a place of safe resort from his successful enemy. A title may indeed pass in a case of sale
like tlais, but it passes subject to the right of capture.
The Minerva,* decided by Sir W. Scott, covers our ground.
.There was, indeed, some evidence of collusion in that case,
but Sir W. Scott undoubtedly intended to say, and did say
in that case, that an enemy's iessel of war, lying in a neutral
pqrt, was ot an object fairly within the range of commercial
speculatioil, and .he unquestionably intended to place his
judgment of condemnation as well upon this principle, as
upon the independent view that, upon the special facts of
that'case, the purchase was collusive, and had been made
with the intent to convey the veseel into the possession of
the former belligerent owner. The principle was lately
acted upon by that able jurist, Field, S., of the District
Court of New Jersey, in the unrep6rted' case of The Ella,
under circumstances much the same as those of the Georgia.
6 Robinson, 897.

38

THE GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ot

Opinion of the court.

-Reply:'
The Minerva was unlike the present case in many important particulars. It was the case of a pretended purchase
of a ship of war, with eighteen guns and ammunition, captured while on her way ostensibly to the port of the purchaser, but really to a port of the enemy; fourteen guls and
ammunition having been taken out for the mere couvenience of conveyance. Though the vessel lay at a neutral
port, the negotiations for the purchase were carried on at
the enemy's port, and an enemy crew and captain were
hired there and sent to bring home the ship. She was captured in possession of an enemy master and crew, and while
sailing close into the enemy's coast. In fact the vessel was
going, under color of purchase and sale, right back again
into the enemy's navy. The vessel had not been dismantled,
except in part for the convenience of transportation, the
purchaser buyidg guns and ammunition with the vessel.
There was no proof in the case that the purchaser had paid
for the vessel, or that he had bought her for commercial
purposes only. It was the case of a mere coloifable purchase. It is true that Sir W. Scott assumes to place the decision of the case on the ground of the illegality of the purchase. But he does so unnecessarily.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It is insisted by the learned counsel for the claimant, that
all the depositions in the record, except those in preparatorio,
should be stricken out, or disregarded by the court on the
appeal, for the reason that it does not appear that any order
had been granted on behalf of either party to take further
proofs. But the obvious answer to the objection is that it
comes too late. It should have been made in the court below. As both parties have taken further proofs, very much
at large, bearing upon the legality of the capture, without
objection, the inference" is unavoidable that there must have
been an order for the same, or, if not, that the depositions
were taken by mutual consent. They were taken on interrogatories and cross-interrogatories, in which the counsel of

Dec. 1868.]

Tim G oRGIA.
Opinion of the court.

both pArties joined, and, among other witnesses examined,
-is,the claimant himself, whose deposition, with the pppere

accompanying it, fill more than one-third of the record.
As respects the vessel, we are satisfied, upon the proofs,
that the claimant purchased the Georgia without any purpose
of permitting her to be again armed and equipped for the
Confederate service, and for the purpose, as avowed at the
time, of converting her into a merchant, vessel. He had,
however, full knowledge of her antecedent character, of her
armament and equipment as a vessel of war of the Confederate navy, and of her depredations on the commerce of the
United States, and that, after having been thus employed by
.the enemies of this government upwards of a year, she had
suddenly entered the port of Liverpool with all her armament, and complement of officers and crew on board' He
was, not only aware of all this, but, according to his own
statement, it had occurred to him that this condition of the
vessel might afford an objection, to her registry at the customs; and before he perfected the sale, he sought and obtained information from some of the officials that no objection would be interposed. He did not apply to the government on the subject.
The claimant states ",that he knew from common report
she (the Georgia), had been employed as a Confederate
cruiser, but I thought," he says, "if the United States government had any objection to the' sale, they or their officers
would have given some public intimation of it, as the sale
* was advertised in the most public manner." If, instead of
applying to an officer of* the customs for information, the
claimant had applied to his government, he would have
learned that as early as March 14th, 1863, Mr. Adams, our
minister in England,had called the attention of Lord Russell, the foreign secretary, to the rule of public law, as, administered by the highest judicial authorities of his governnient, which forbid the purchase of ships of war, belonging
to the enemy, by neutrals in time of war, and had insistpd
that the ru should 1e observed and enforced in the wal

THE GEORGIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

then pending between this government and the insurgent
States. And also that he had addressed a remonstrance to
the British government on the 9th of May, but a few days
after the Georgia had entered the port of Liverpool, against
her being permitted to remain longer in that port than the
period specified in her Majesty's proclamation. His own
government could have advised him of the responsibilities
he assumed in making the purchase. Mr. Adams, after receiving information of the purchase by the claimant, in accordance with his views of public law, above stated, cormunicated with the commanders of our vessels cruising in
the Channel, and expressed to them the opinion that, notwithstanding the purehase, the Georgia might be made lawful, prize whenever and under whatever colors she should
be found sailing on the high seas.
The principle here assumed by Mr. Adams as a correct
one, was first adjudged by Sir William Scott in the case of
The linerva,* in the year 1807. The head note of the case
is: "Purchase of a ship of war from -anenemy whilst lying
in a neutral port, t6 which it had fled for refuge, is invalid."
It wa stated in that case by counsel for the claimant, that
it was a transaction which could not be shown to fall under
any principleithat had led to condemnation in that court or
in the Court of Appeal. And Sir William Scott observed,
in delivering his opinion, that he was not aware of any case
in his court, or in the Court of Appeal, in which the legality
of such a purchase had been recognized. He admitted there
had been cases of merchant vessels driven into ports out of
which they could not escape, and there sold, in which, after
much discussion aqd some hesitation of opinion, the validity
of the purchase had been sustained. Rut "whether the
purchhse of a vessel of this description, built for war and
employed as such, and now rendered incapable of acting as
a ship of war, by the arms of the other belligerent, and
driven into a neutral port for shelter-whether the purchase
of such a ship can be allowed, which shall enable the enemy,
so far to secure himself from the disadvantage into which he
* 6 Robinson, 397.

Dec. 1868.]

THE GEORGIA.

Opinion of the court.

.has fallen, as to have the.value at least restored to him by a

neutral purchaser," he said,-" was a queftion on which he
would wait for the authority of the superior court, before
he would admit the vdlidity' of the transfer." He denied
that a vessel under these circumstances could come fairly
within'the range of commercial speculation.
It has been insisted in the argument here, by the counsel
for the claimant, that there were facts and circumstances in
the case of The Minerva, which went strongly to show that
the sale was collusive, and that, at the time of the capture,
she was on her way back to the enemy's port. This may be
admitted. But the decision was placed, mainly and distinctly, upon the illegality of the purchase. And such, has
been the understanding of the profession and of text-writers,
both in 'England and in this country; and as still hikher evidence of the rule in England;it has since been re*coguized as
settled law by the judicial committee of.her Maj'esty's priv r
council. In the recent learned and most valuable commentaries of Mr. Phillimore (now Sir Robz rt Phillimore, Judge
of the High Court of Admiralty of England), on international law, he observes, after stating the principles that govern the sale of enemies' ships, during war, to neutrals: "But
the right of purchase by neutrals extends only to merchant
ships of enemies, for the purchase of ships of war belonging
to enemies is held'invalid." And Mr. T. Pemberton Leigh,
in delivering judgment of the judicial committee and lords
of the privy council, ifi the case of The Baltiea,t observes: 'iA
neutral, while war ii imminent, or after it has commenced,
is at liberty to purchase' either goods or ships (not being
ships of war), from either belligerent, and the purchase is
valid; whether the subject of it be lying in a neutral port.or
in au enemy's port."' Mr. Justice Story lays down the same
distinction in his "Notes on the Principles and Practice 'of'
Prize Couts,"*-a work that has been sele'cted by the British
government for the use of its naval officers, as the best code
of instruction in the prize law.t The same principle is found
* Page 63, Pratt's London edition.

t'

See 11th Moore'n Privy Council, 145.

TEGEORGIA-.

[Sup.. Ct

Opinion of the court.

in Wildman on International Rights in Time of War, a valuable English work published in 1850, and in a still more recent work, Hosack on the Rights of British and Neutral Commerce, published in London in 1954, this question is referred
to in connection with sales of several Russian ships of war,
which it was said had been sold in the ports of the Mediterranean to neutral purchasers, for the supposed purpose of
defehting the belligei-ent rights of her enemies in the Crimean
war, and he very naturally concludes, from the case of The
Minerva, that no doubt could exist as to what would be the
decision in case of a seizure.* This work was published
before the judgment of the privy council in the case of The
Balica,which was a Russian vessel, sold imminenle bello; being, however, a merchant ship, the purchase was upheld;
but, as we have seen from the opinion in that case, if it had
been a ship of war it would have been condemned.t
It has been suggested that, admitting the rule of law as
above stated, the purchase should still be upheld, as the
Georgia, in her then condition, was not a vessel of war, but
had be-n dismantled, and all guns'and munitions of war removed; that she was purchased as a merchant vessel, and
fitted up, bona fide, fbr the merchant service. But the answer to the suggestion is, that if this change in the equipment in the neutral port, and in the contemplated employment in future of the vessel, could have the eflect to take
her out of therule, and justify the purchase, it would always
be in the power of the belligerent to evade it, and render
futile the reasons on which it is founded. The rile is
founded on the propriety and justice of taking away from
the belligerent, not only the power of rescuing his vessel
'from pressure and impending peril of capture, by escaping
into a neutral port, but also to take.way the facility which
would otherwise exist, by a collusive or even actual sale, of
,gain rejoining the naval force of the enemy. The removed
armament of a vessel, built for war, can be readily replaced,
*Page
82, note.
t See also Lawrence's Whaton, note 1,82, p. 561, and The Etta, -before
Field, United States district judge of New Jersey.

Dec. 1868.]

THE GEORGIA.
Opinion of the court.

and "so can every other change be made, or equipment furnisbed for effective and .immediate service. The Georgia
may be instanced in part illustration of this truth. Her
desk remained the same, from which the pivot guns and
others had been taken; it had been built originally strong,
in order to sustain the war, armament, and further strengthened by uprights and stanchions- beneath. The claimant
states that the alterations, repairs, and outfit of the vessel
for'the merchant service, cost some X3006. Piobably ani
eqtual sum would have again fitted her for the replacement
of her original armament as a mah of war.
The distinction between the purchase df vessels of war
from the belligerent, in time of war, by neutrals, in a neutral port, and of merchant vessels, is founded on reason and"
justice. It prevents the abuse of the neutral by'partiality
towards either belligerent, when the vessels of the one a 4e
under pressure from. the vess. ls of the others, and removes
the temptation to collusive or even actual sales, under the.
cover of which they may find their way back again into the
service of the enemy.
That the Georgia, in the present case, entered the port of
Liverpool to escape from the vessels of the United States in
pursuit, is manifest. The steam frigates Kearsarge, Niagara,
and Sacramento were cruising off the coast of France and'in
the British Channel, in search of this vessel and others that
had become notorious for their depredations on American*
, commerce. It was but a few days after the -purchase of the
Georgia by the claimant, the Alabama was captured in the
Channel, after a short and brilliant action, by the Kearsarge.
The Georgia was watched from the time she entered the
* port of Liverpool, and was seized ag soon as she left it.
The question in this case cannot arise under the French
code, as, according to that law, sales even of merchant vessels to a neutral, flagrante bello, are forbidden. And it is
'understood that the same rule -prevails in Russia. Their
law, in this respect, differs from the established English and
American adjudications on-this subject.
It may not be inappropriate to remark, that Lord Russell

INSURANCE COMPANY v. TWEED.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

advised Mr. Adams, on the day the Georgia left Liverpool
under the charter-party to the Portuguese government,
August 8th, 1864, her Majesty's government had given directions that, "In future, no ship of war, of either belligerent, shall be allowed to be brought into any of her Majesty's
ports fcr the purpose of being dismantled or sold."
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE COMPANY

v.

TWEED.

1. The act of M1arch 3d, 1866 (13 Statutes at Large, 601), which provides
by its fourth-section a mode by which parties who submit cases to the
court, without-the intervention of a jury, may have the rulings of the
court reviewed here, and also what may be reviewed in such cases, binds
the Federal courts sitting in Louisiana as elsewhere, and this court cannot disregard it.
However, in a case where the counsel for both parties in this court had
agreed to certain parts of the opinion of the court below as containing
the material facts of the case, and to treat them here as facts found by
that court, this court acted upon the agreement here as if it had been
made in the court below.
2. Cotton in a warehouse was insured against fire, the *policy containing an
exception against fire which might happen "by means of any invasion,
insurrection, riot, or civil commotion, or any military or usurped power,
ex losion, earthquake: or hurricane." An explosion took place in an,
-other warehouse, situated directly across a street, which threw down the
walls of the first warehouse, scattered combustible materials in the
street, and resulted in an extensive conflagration, embracing several
squares of buildings, and among them the warehouse where the cotton
was stored, which, with it, was wholly consumed. The fire was not
communicated from the warehouse where the explosion took place directly to the warehouse where the cotton was, but came more immediately from a third building which was itself fired by the c: plosion.
Wind was blowing (with what force did not appear) from this third
building to the one in which the cotton was stored. But the whole fire
was a continuous affair from the explosion, and under full headway in
about half an hour. Held, that the insurers weraenot liable; the case
not being one for the application of the maxim, "Causa proxima, non
ranota,spectatur."
TWEED brought suit in the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana against the Mutual Insurance Company, on a policy of insurance against fire, which covered

