INSURANCE COMPANY v. TWEED.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

advised Mr. Adams, on the day the Georgia left Liverpool
under the charter-party to the Portuguese government,
August 8th, 1864, her Majesty's government had given directions that, "In future, no ship of war, of either belligerent, shall be allowed to be brought into any of her Majesty's
ports fcr the purpose of being dismantled or sold."
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE COMPANY

v.

TWEED.

1. The act of M1arch 3d, 1866 (13 Statutes at Large, 601), which provides
by its fourth-section a mode by which parties who submit cases to the
court, without-the intervention of a jury, may have the rulings of the
court reviewed here, and also what may be reviewed in such cases, binds
the Federal courts sitting in Louisiana as elsewhere, and this court cannot disregard it.
However, in a case where the counsel for both parties in this court had
agreed to certain parts of the opinion of the court below as containing
the material facts of the case, and to treat them here as facts found by
that court, this court acted upon the agreement here as if it had been
made in the court below.
2. Cotton in a warehouse was insured against fire, the *policy containing an
exception against fire which might happen "by means of any invasion,
insurrection, riot, or civil commotion, or any military or usurped power,
ex losion, earthquake: or hurricane." An explosion took place in an,
-other warehouse, situated directly across a street, which threw down the
walls of the first warehouse, scattered combustible materials in the
street, and resulted in an extensive conflagration, embracing several
squares of buildings, and among them the warehouse where the cotton
was stored, which, with it, was wholly consumed. The fire was not
communicated from the warehouse where the explosion took place directly to the warehouse where the cotton was, but came more immediately from a third building which was itself fired by the c: plosion.
Wind was blowing (with what force did not appear) from this third
building to the one in which the cotton was stored. But the whole fire
was a continuous affair from the explosion, and under full headway in
about half an hour. Held, that the insurers weraenot liable; the case
not being one for the application of the maxim, "Causa proxima, non
ranota,spectatur."
TWEED brought suit in the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana against the Mutual Insurance Company, on a policy of insurance against fire, which covered

Dec. 1868.j

INSUBANCE COMPANY V. TWEED.

45

Statement of th6 case.

certain bales of cotton in a building in Mobile, known as
the Alabama Warehouse. The policy contained a proviso
that the insurers should not-be liable to make good any loss
or damage by fire which might happen or take place "by
meams of any invasion, insurrection, riot, or civil cownmotion,
or any military or usurped power, exploon, earthquake, or
hurricane."
During the time covered by the policy an explosion took
place in another building, the Marshall Warehouse, situated
directly aqross/a street, which threw down the walls of the
Alabama Warehouse, and scattered combustible materials
in the street, and resulted in au extensive conflagration, embracing several squares of buildings, among which the Alabama Warehouse, and the cotton stored in it, were wholly
-destroyed.

ALABAMA WAREHOUSE.

STREET (50 feet wide.)

to

MARSHALL WAREHOUSE.

Itis to be understood, however, that the fire was not
communicated directly f'om the Marshall Warehouse, in
which the explosion occurred, to the Alabama Warehouse,
but that it came more immediately from a third buildingthe Eagle Mill-wbich was itgelf fired by the explosion.
The wind (with what force did not appear) was blowing in a
direction from the Eagle Mill to the Alabama Warehouse.
But the whole fire was a continuous afair from the explo,
sion, and under full headway in about half an hour.

[Sur . Gta

INSURANCE COMPANY V.' TWEED.

Argument for the insurers.

Upon this state of facts the court below held that the principle,'" Causa proxima, non remota, spectatur," applied; and
that accordingly the fire which consumed this cotton did
not "happen or take place by means of an explosion." It,
therefore, gave judgment for the plaintiff below. The correctness of this view was the quetion now to be decided
here on error.
The case was tried by the court below without a jury.
There was no bill of exceptions, -nor any ruling on any
proposition of law raised by the pleadings. The evidence
seemed to have been copied into the transcript, but whether
it was all the testimony, or how it came to be there, there
was nothing to show. However, in the court's opinion (or,
as it was styled, "reasons for judgment"), the learned judge
below'quoted considerable portions of the evidence, in order
to show the grounds for the conclusion which he had reached.
And the counsel in this'court agreed to certain parts of the
opinio. so given as presenting a correct statement of the
/case,
M/r. Evarts,for the insurers,plaintiffs in error:
I. A general soluti,on of the problems of difficulty which
the variety of the actual circumstances of insurance risks
bas raised for judicial decision has been thought to have
been reached in the maxim, " Causa proxina, non remota,
spetatur." But this rule has itself been proved to cover
somnifttllacies which lurk"under every generality. The most
celebrated jndges have given a contrary application of the
maxim upon identical states of fact.
The controversy, whether nearness of time or closeness of
efficiency in the competing causes satisfied the maxim, and
the still larger controversy, as to what secondlary and subordinate agencies were to be treated as swallowed up in a
predominating cause, have resulted in closer practical definitions, which may be trusted as the rule of the law in the
premises. They are thus stated by the judicious commentator, INfr. Phillips.*
* 1 Phillip. on Ins.,

1, 182, and see Ibid.,

187.

Dec. 1868.]

INSURANCE C6MPANY V. TWEED.

47

Argument for the insurers.

case of,the concurrenee of different causes, to one of
'In
which it is necessary to attribute the loss, it is to be attributed
to the efficient predominating peril, whether it is or is not in
activity at the consummation of the disaster."
I. The contract in this case shows a circumspect attention to the true description of the risks excepted:
1. In the words used to accomplish the desired discrimination, so that the sense, to the, apprehension of practical
.men, is neither obscure, equivocal, nor incomplete.
2. In the comprehension of, and, attention to, the legal
distinctions and criticism which judibial,, cecisions have
applied to the subject with which the contract deals.
. In the association in which the excepted cause of fire
by means of- explosion is found; -for these other causes of
fire are, indisputably, in.their nature and mode of operation,
neither direct nor imm9diate proeesses of ignition or combustion; but are either moral or physical agencies, in the
progressive operation of which fire may be lighted or propagated.
Whatever difficulty, then, can arise to disappoint the
intent of the'parties-in their contract must be referred to
sompe strange or obscure state bf. facts, which has eluded all.
their forecast. But the facts make *neitherdoubt, difficulty,
obscurity, or uncertainty, as to the relation of the primary
cause and the subordinate means by which the 'property
insured was destroyed by fire:
1. The security againdt fire of the propei'ty-iqsured is first
invaded by the explosion in close proximity, which itself
and iistantly denudes the combustible property insured of
the proteoting walls of the building within which the terms
of the insurance require it to be, and exposes it, naturally
and probably, tb fire, if fire shall happen.
2. Theexplosion, itself and instantly, lights the fire which,
as a single, progressive, uhinterrupted, and irresistible con-flagration, consumes the property insured.
3.No new cause, influence, or means is interposed be.
tween (1) the explosion and the lighting of the fire which it

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

TWEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument Tor the party ijisured.

caused, or (2) the lighting of the fire and the destiziction by
its flames of the property insured, to which any efficiency
towards or any responsibility for the loss can be imputed.
The suggestion which will be made on the other side, that
the, propagation of the flames, by the course of the wind, or
the intermediate combustible matter, intioduced a new cause
or means of loss, is only important as indicating the absence of 'any efficient cause, in the sense of insurance law, to
relieve the explosion from being the predominating cause
and the effectual means of the destroying fire.
.The authorities show that within any accepted interpretation of the rule of "causaproxima,non remota, spectatur," the
loss was by "fire which happened-or took place by means
of explosion." A leading case is S.,John v. Insurance Company, considered in the Sdperior Court of New York,* and
in the Court of Appeals.t The syllabus in the report of the
Superior Court is thus:
"When-it is provided by the conditions annexed to a policy
of insurance against fire, that the company shall not be 'liable
for any loss occasioned by the explosion of a steam-boiler, or
e.plosions arising frpm any other cause, unless specially specified in the policy,' although fire may be the proximate cause of
the loss that is claimed, the company is not liable when it appears that the fire was directly and wholly occasioned by an
ex plosion."
Numerous other cases give a similar view of the rule.1
Mr. Billings, contra:
To exempt the insurers the explosion must have been the
direct cause of the fire. But contrary to what is maintained
* 1 Duer, 371.

t 1 Kernan, 516.
: General Insurance Company v. Sherwood, 14"Howard, 367; Montoya v.
London Assurance Company, 6 Exchequer, 451 ; Tilton v. Hamilton Insurance Company, 1 Bosworth, 867; Brady v. Northwestern Insurance Company, 11 Michigan, 425; Lewis v. Springfield Insurance Company, 10 Gray,
159; Strong v. Sun Insurance Comp any, 31 New York, 103; City Fire In.
burance Company v. Corlies, 21 Wendell, 367.

Dec..1868.1

o

INSURANCV COMPANY V. TWEED,

49

Arumdnt for the party insdred.

.by opposite counsel; the fats show that while the'explbson
&was remotely tributary to the j]oss,'as were. many othet ,vi
cumstances, it w~s far removed from the agency applying"
it.' Thi is the order of events: -an explosion takes ,placey
by force of which a fire is kindled in the Eagle Mill; m9re
than half an hour afterwards, the wind, aided by iflammable substances in the' strdet, and at a distance on the opposite side of the street, kindles a fire which constimes the'
cotton.
The first-fire in the Eagle Mill wasif we' concede to di-.
rect causation its-broadest sense, caused by an' dxplosion ;I
the second, by the wind; for, had the wind blown in'. tlie
opposite direction, the cotton would have remained unharmed. With the kindling of the first fie the explosion
was entirely spent and had, as a cause, a full interruption
and end.
The rule of law, of whfch opposite counselwould disp6cse'
by the statement,-hardly, we should hope, for the, honor'
the most celdof juridical science, warranted in fact,-that "!
brated judges have given a,contraryapplication of the maaxim
upon'identical states bf fact," has been-handed down to us in
the apothegmatic form. which it enjoys by a no less pers6nage
"than 'Lord Chanc'llor Bacon. 'And le 'shows the 'w.eighty
reasons of it also. "It were infinite,' he says, "for the law"
to consider the causes of causes, and their impilsions one of
another; therefore it conteliteth itself with the immediate
cause, and judgeth of acts by that without looking to any
'further.degree."
The authorities, we apprehend, do but illustrate the maxim.
In Li?.* v. Janson,* a ship:was inshred against the perils
of the sea, but not against capture, and m6t with.sea damage,
which checked her rate of sailing, in consequence of which
she ivas captured. The loss was ascribed to the capture, and
* uot to the sea damage.
In Rodgson :v.J.aleolm,f where the.crew who were sent
ashore, were imprisoned' by a press-gang, and -thereby pre.'
t 5. Bosanquet and Puller, 886.

• 12 East, 648.

vO. vii.

4

INSURANCE COMPANY V. TWEED.

(Sup ot.

Opinion of the court.

vented from casting off a rope, and in consequence the ship
went ashore and was lost, it was held a loss by the perils of
'the sea.
In -edman v. Wilson,* a vessel insured against perils of the
sea, in consequence of unskilful lading, became leaky-, and
having- been pronounced unseaworthy, to save the cargo,
was run ashore., Held, that the insurers were liable, the
immediate cause of the loss being the perils of the sea.
And so more recent English cases.t American authorities equally assert, the distinction maintained in J3acou's
maxim.

[In reply to some remarks by the bench as to the irregular
and defective character of the record, tested by the rules of
the common law, and as to the absence of any certain case
on which judgment could be given, Mr. Billings observed
that the record, he believed, was in the frequent form of
those from Louisiana, and that the opinion of the court presented a sufficient finding of the fact.' By consent of counsel,
at any rate, in this court, certain parts of the opinion'(the
parts given as the case in the reporter's statement, supra, p.
45), were-to be received as containing the material facts.]
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
There is, in this case, as presented by the transcript,
nothing which a writ of error can bring here for review
tested'by the rules of the common law.
Th distinction between law and equity prevails in the
Federal courts sitting in Louisiana in tie modes of proceeding, notwithstanding the Civil Code, which governs the
practice as well as the rights o.f parties in the State courts.
On account of the peculiarity in practice in that State, it has
been decided inseveral cases copning from the State courts
* 14' MTeeson and Welsby, 476.

t Ionides v. The Universal Insurance Company, 8 Law Times, new series,
p.' 705; Marsden v. The City and County Assurance Company, 13 Law
Times, 465; Thomson v. Hopper, Ellis, Blackburn and Ellis, 1038.
1 Columbia Insurance Company v. Lawrence, 10 Peters, 517; Waters v.
Merchants' Insurance Company, 11 Id. 2 1.

. Dec.. 1868.]

e8 SURANCE COmPANY i. TWEED.
Opinion of the court.

of Louisian,. to this court by writ of error, that we would
regard the statements of fact found in the opinions Qf the
court as part of the record, ivhere they were in themselves
sufficient and otherwise unobjectionable. And perhaps this
may in practice have been extended to cases from the Federal courts of thatodistrict. But in regard to the latter, we
are not now at liberty to-do so. The act of March 3d, 1865,*
by.its fourth section provides *a clear and simple mode by
which parties who submit cases to the court, without the
intervention of a jury, may have the iulings of the court reviewed here, and also prescribes what may be reviewed in
such cases. This statute, which is but a reproduction of the,
system in practice in many of the States, is as binding on
the Federal courts sitting in Louisiana as elsewhere, and
we cann6t disregard it. '
We are asked in the present case to accept the opihion
of the court below, as a sufficient finding of the facts within
the statute, and within. the general rule on. this subject.
But with no aid outside the record we cannot do this. The
opinion: only recites some parts of the testimony by way of
comment in support of the judgment, and is liable to the
objection often referred to in this court, that it states the evidence and not the fats as -found from that evidence. Besides, it does not profess to be a statement of facts, but is'
very correctly called In the transcript, "reasons for judgment."
But the counsel for both parties in this court have'agreed
to certain parts of that opinion as containing the material
facts of the case, and to treat them here as facts found by
the court-; and inasmuch as.they could have made such an
agreement in the court bdlow, we have concluded to act upon
it here as if it had been so inade.
Upon an examination of the facts thus stated, and placing
upon them that construction most favorable, to the judgment
of the court, we are of opinion that it cannot be sustained.
The only question to be decided in the case is, whether
13 Star at Large, 501.

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v. TWEED.

[slip.. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the fire which destroyed plaintiff's cotton, happened or took
place by means of the explosion; for if it did, the defendant is not liable by the expressterms of the contract.
That the explosion was, in some sense the cause of the
fire is not denied, but it is claimed that its relation was too
remote to bing the case within the exception of the policy.
Afnd we have bad cited to us a general review of the doctrine
of p, oximate and, remote causes as it has arisen and been de-,
cided in the courts in a great variety of cases. It would be'an
unprofitable labor to enter into an examination of these -ases.
If we could deduce from them the best possible expression
of the rule, it would remain after all t6 decide each case
largely upon the special facts belonging to it, and often upon,
the very, nicest discriminations.
One of the most valuable of the criteria furnished us by
these authorities, is to ascertain whether any new cause has
intervened between the fact acconplished and the alleged
cause. -If a new force or power has intervened of itself sufficient to stand as the cause of the misfortune, the other must
be considered as too remote.
In the present case we think there is no such new cause.
The explosion undoubtedly produced or set in operation the
ire whichburndd the, plaintiff's cotton. The fact that it
was carried to the cotton by first burning another building
suppliesno new force or power which caused the burning.
Nor can the accidental circumstance that the wind was blowing in a direction to favor the progress of the fire towards
the warehouse be considered a new cause. That may have
been the usual course of the breeze in that neighborhood.
Its force may have been trifling. Its influence in producing
the fire in the Alabama Warehouse was too slight to be substituted for the explosioq as the cause of the fire.
But there are/other causes of fire mentioned in the exempting clause, and they throw light on the intent of the
parties in reference to this one. If the fire bad taken place
by means of invasion, riot, insurrection, or civil commotion,
earthquake, or hurricane, and by either of these means the
Marshall Warehouse had been first fired, and the fire had

Deb. 1.868.].

ThE'C
CHm'A.
Syllabus.

extended, as we have shown it did, to the, Alabama Ware.
house, won Id the insurance company have been' liable?
-Could it be held as necessary to exemption that trio persons engaged in riot or invdsion must have actually placed
the torch to the building insured, and that in such case if
half the town had been burned down the company would
have been liable for all thd. buildings insured, except the
one first fired? Or if a hurricane or earthquake .had started
the fire, is the exemption linited in the same manner?
These propositions cannot be sustained, and in estAblishing a principle applicable to fire origipating by explosion,
we must find one which is equally dpplicabl6 under like circumstances to the other causes ebracedin the same clause.
Without commenting further, we are; cleatly of opinion
.that the explosion was the.cause of the fire'in thif case, within
the meaning of the policy and that the'judgnient of the Circuit Court must be
REVERSED AND A NEW 'T~rAL GRANTED.

THE

OHjNA.

1. A State pilot law having provided for the educating and licensing of a
body of pilots, enacted that all masters of foreign vessels bound to or from
one of the State ports 19shall take.a licensed pilot, or, in case of refusal
to take'such pilot, shall pay pilotage as if one had been employed." It
enacted further, that any person not licensed as a pilot, who should
attempt to pilot a vessel as aforesaid, should l e "deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, on conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$100, or imprisoftment not exceeding sixty days," and that all persons
employing any one to act as a pilot not holding a license, should " forThe pilot first offering his services to
feit and pay the sum of $100."
a vessel inward bound had a right to pilot her in, and when she went
out the right to pilot her oft. Ueld,-that under this statute vessels were
compelled to take u pilot.
2. But held, further (the statute containing no clause exempting.the vessel
or owners from liability for the pilot's mismanagement), that the responsibility of the vessel for torts committed by it not being derived frozu
the law of master and.servant, or from the common law at all, but from
maritime law, which impressed a maritime lien upon the vessel i

