132

LINCOLN V. CLAITLIN.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the oase.

LINCOLN V. CLAFLIN.
1. A bill of exceptions should only present the rulings of the court upon
some matter of law, and should contain only so much of the testimony,
or snch a statement of the proofs made or offered, as may be necessary
to explain the bearing of the rulings upon the issue involved.
2. In an action against two defendants for fraudulently obtaining the property of the plaintiff, the declaration alleged that the fraud was a matter
of pre-arrangement between them. The fraud of one of the defendants
was not contested; and as to the other defendant, Held, that his subsequent participation in the fraud and its fruits was as effective to charge
him as preconcert and combination for its execution.
3. Where fraud in the purchase or sale of property is in issue, evidence of
other frauds of like character, committed by the same parties, at or nea
the same time, is admissible.
4. Where two persons are engaged together in the furtherance of a common
design to defiraud others, the declarations of each relating to the enterprise are evidence against the other, though made in the latter's absence.
5. Interest is not allowable as a matter of law, in cases of tort. Its allowance as damags rests in the discretion of the jury.
6: Where a charg6 to the jury embraces several distinct propositions, a
general exception to it will not avail the party ff any one of the prop.
ositions is correct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the Northern District of
Illinois.
Claflin and others brought an action on the case against
two defendants- Lincln and Mileham, for fraudulently obtaining the property of the plaintiffs, alleging a combination
and prearrangement between them, by which Mileham purchased goods to a large amount of different parties in New
York, and among others of the plaintiffs, upon false and
fraudulent representations of his means and business, and
Lincoln sold them at St. Louis, within a few days afterwards,
at auction, for less than their cost price, and appropriated
the proceeds to his own use; the whole thing being alleged
to have been done with intent to defraud the vendors of
their property.
That Mlileham was guilty of the fraud was not seriously
controverted in the court below.
The principal defence turned upon the connection of the

Dec. 1868.]

LINCOLN V. CLAFLIN.
Statenient of the case.

defendant Lincoln with the fraudulent acts of Mileham.
Linc6ln had been, it was alleged, a large creditor of Mileham, and, as he and Mileham asserted, had obtained the
goods from Mileham only by his own superior vigilance,
and to pay his own just debt. On the subject of the fraudulent connection of the parties, the court charged that the
jury must be satisfied either that Lincoln was a party to the
original fraud, or that he became a party to it by his own
conduct and acts subsequently, with kiiowledge of the fraud;
and that this last, if true, "would be the same as though he had
been a party to it.originally." The court also admitted evidence
of other similar fraudulent transactions of the same parties,
with others, made about the same time. The court also
allowed declarations of each party, made in the absence of
the other, relating to the transaction in question, to go to
the jury; but it charged that whether these declarations
would be evidence as against both, would depend on the
view the jury should take in relation to the -completion and
consummation of the fraudulent enterprise; that is to say;
if they believed there was a fraudulent concert between the
two defendants, and that these declarations were made during the progress and continuation of the enterprise, what
each said would be evidence against the other; but that if
the enterprise was ended and completed before the declarations were made, then that what one said would not be
evidence against the other. As to damages, it charged that
if the jury should find for the plaintifli, that the amount
should be "the value of the goods at the time they were
purchased, with interest from that time."
The plaintiff excepted to the admission of the evidence
above mentioned, and to the charge of the court generallybut did not except to it on the ground of a wrong instruction
as to interest. The bill of exceptions set out the whole evidence given on the trial, with a long charge in extenso' and
occupied ninety-qix pages out of a hundred and twenty-six
which composed the record.
The plaintiff recovered judgment, and the defendant,
Lincoln, brought the case by a writ of error to this court.

134

LINCOLN

V. OLAPLIN.

[Sup. ,Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. Goudy, for the plaintiff in error:
1. The allegata and probata do not agree. The gist of the
declaration was the purchase of the plaintiff's goods in pursuance of a,fraudulent prearrangementbetween Mileham and
Lincoln. Under the allegations tho purchase was made as
niuch'by Lincoln as Mileham; and Lincoln was an original
party to the fraud; not an accessory after the fact, but a
principal. Of these allegations there was no proof. There
was, therefore, a variance.
The court might have properly charged that the acts of
Lincoln subsequerit to the purchase were sufficient evidence
that he was an original conspirator. But it charged instead
that it was unimportant whether he entered into a conspiracy and was a party by preconcert or not; that it was
sufficient to convict him, if,knowing ofthe fraud by Mileham, he became a party to it subsequently. There was no
such cause of action set forth, and no such issue.
If such cause of action had been set forth it would not have
been a good one. A conspitacy subsequently to the purchase of goods, although fraudulent and injurious, is no
cause of action. Adler v. Penton* decides this. Indeed, in
that case, there was a conspiracy and fraud for the express
pqrpose'of defeating the creditor. Here there was a mere
effort of one creditor to gain priority over another; an act
which the law commends; for it helps the vigilant, not the
sleeping.
2. The admissions were wrongly received. It is true that the
court below charged that they would not be evidence as
against both of the defendants unless the conspiracy was
proved and the common purpose had not been accomplished
and completed. But this did not cure the error. Thepe was
no evidence of conspiracy, and the reception of the evidence
caused a prejudice in the jury against the defendant.
3. That interest is not allowed eo nomine in an action to
recover damages for the wrongful conversion or tortious
24 Howard, 408.

Dec. 18'68.]

8LiNCOLN

v. CLAPLIN.

135

.Argamentfor the defendant in error.

taking of property; but is a matter of discretion with thl*
jury, is settled.*
Mr. Farnsworth,contra:
'1. Opposing counsel argue the case as if it were in the court
below. They contend that Lincoln was a creditor of Mileham, but that question was passed on by the jury, who have
obviously foundin the negative.
I The charge as to Lincoln's connection with the fraud was
right. The doctrine laid down in it is held even in criminal
cases. Thus, in 7The People v. Jiather,tthe court say:
" Whenever a new party concurs in the plans originally
formed, and comes in to aid in the execution of them,h6 is from
that moment a fellow-conspirator.

He commits the offence

whenever he agrees to become a party to the transaction, or
does any act in furtherance of the original design."
Adler v. Fenton, relied on to show no cause of action, was
an action brought by creditors of Adler & Schiff, upon the
complaint that they had fraudulently conspired with their
co-defendants to dispose of their property, so as to defeat
creditors: the decision was based on the ground that courts
would not prevent an insolvent debtor from alienating his
property, and that as Adler & Schiff were the legal owners
of the property at the time the suit was commenced, no on'e
had any right to interfere with their use. Our case is different. We do not allege that we have suffered damage, by
reason of a conspiracy between Lincoln and Milehamfraudulently to dispose of the property of the latter, but seekc to recover damages against them for obtaining, by a fraudulent conspiracy, the possession of our property. The theory of our case
is, that no title for the goods he got from us ever passed to
Mileham; but that through a prearrangement and conspiracy
with Lincoln, they two fraudulently obtained possession of
our property, which resulted in damage-to us to its valve.
Gilpins v.Consequa, Peters's Circuit Court, 95; Willings v. Same, lb.
174; Beals v. Guernsey, 8 Johnson,,453.
I t 4 Wendell,
261.

LINCOLN V. CLAFLIN.

[Sup. -0t.

Opinion of the court.

2. The admissions were rightly received,* even if in an
action like the present one a recovery might not be had
against any one of the defendants against whom a case was
made; which it may be.t
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of exceptions in this case is made up without any
regard to the rules in accordance with which such bills
should be framed. It is little else than a transcript of the
evidence, oral and documentary, given at the t/ial, and covers ninety-six printed pages of the record, when the exceptions could have been presented with greater clearness and
precision in any five of them. In its preparatio.n counsel
seem to have forgotten tl~at this court does not pass, in actions at law, upon the credibility or sufficiency of testimony;
that these are matters which are left to the jury, and for any
ersors in its action the remedy must be sought in the court
below by a motion for a new trial. A bill of exceptions
should only present the rulings of the court upon some matter of law-as upon the admission or exclusion of evidenceand should contain only so much of the testimony, or such
a statement of the proofs made or offered, as may be necessary to explain the bearing of the rulings upon the issues
involved. If the facts upon which the rulings were made
are admitted, the bill should state them briefly, as the result
of the testimony; if the facts are disputed, it will be sufficient
if the bill allege that testimony was produced tending to
prove them. If a defect in the proofs is the ground of the
exception, such defect should be mentioned without a detail
ol' the testimony. Indeed, it can seldom be necessary for
the just determination of any question raised at the trial to
set forth the entire evidence given; and the' practice in some
Whittier v. Varney, 10 New Hampshire, 294; Bridge v. Eggleston, 14
Massachusetts, 250; Foster v. Hall, 12 Pickering, 89; Howe v. Reed, 3 Fairfield, 515; Blake v.'Howard, 2 Id. 202; Lovell v. Briggs, 2 New Hampshire,
223; Wiggin v. Day, 9 Gray, 97; Scott v. Williams, 14 Abbot's Practice
Reports, 70; Cary v. Hotailing, 1 Hill, 316.
T Jones v. Baker, 7 Cowen, 447.

Dec. 1868.]

LINCOLN ,v. CLAFLIN.
Opinion of the court.

districts'-quite common of late-of sending up to this court
bills maae up in this way--filled with superfluous and irrelevant matter-must be condemned; It only serves to throw
increased labor upon us, and unnecessary expense upon parties. If counsel will not heed. the admonitions upon this
@ubject, so frequently expressed by u;, the judges of the
courts below, to -whom the bills are presented, should withhold their signatures until the bills are prepared in proper
form, freed from all matter not essential to explain and point
the exceptions.
- The, action, in this case is. brought to recover damages
against the defendants for fraudufently obtaining the properfy of the plairitiffs. It differs materiall from that of Adler
v, Fenton, repoited in 24th Howard, which is cited to show
that the declaration discloses' no cause of action. In that
case certain creditors, whose demand was not due at the time,
brought an action against their debtors and otheis for an
alleged conspiracy to 'dispose of the property of the debtors,
so as to hinder and defeat the creditors in the collection of.
their demand; and this court held that the action would, not
lie. The decision pr6ceeded upon the ground that crpditors
at large have no such legMi interest in the property of their
debtors as to enable them to interfere with any disposition
of it before the maturity of their demands. The cre'ditors in that case possessed no lien upon or interest in the property
of their debtors to impair or clog in any respect the right of
the latter to make any use or disposition Of it they saw
proper. The exercise of that right, whatever the motive,
violated no existing right of the creditors, and consequently
'furnished them no ground of action.
The case at bar is not brought upon the allegation that
the defendants have fiaudulently disposed 'of their. own
property, but that they ha~e fraudulently obtained possession
of the property of the plaintiffs. It proceeds upon the theory
that the title to the goods never passed to the defendants,
but remained in the plaintiffs, from whom they were obtained
by false and fraudulent representations.,
That such representations were made 'by the defendant,

188

LtncoLN v. CLAITLIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mileham, and that by means of them the goods were ob-

tained, was not seriously disputed at the trial. The principaf controversy turned upon the connection of the defendant,
Lincoln, with the fraudulent acts of Mileham. The declara
tion alleges that the fraud was a matter of prearrangement
between them, and their counsel insisted that proof of such
prearrang6ment was essential to a recovery against Lincoln,
but the court held that it was sufficient to show that be subsequently, with knowledge of the fraud, became a party to
it; that subsequent participation in the fraud and its fruits
was as effective to charge him, as preconcert and combination for its execution. In thus holding we perceive no error.
The character of the transaction was not changed, whether
Lincoln was an original party in its inception, or became a
party subsequently; nor was the damage resulting to the
plaintiffs affected by the precise day at which he became a
co-conspirator with Mileham. If, knowing the fraud contrived, he aided in its execution, and shared it proceeds, he
was chargeable with all its consequences, and could be treated
afid pursued as an original party. Every act of each in furtherance of the common design was in contemplation of law
the act of both.
On the trial declarations of the defendants were received,
which related not merely to the transaction which is subject
or inquiry in this action, but to similar contemporaneous
transactions with other parties. The evidence was not incompetent or irrelevant, as contended by counsel. Where
fraud in the purchase or sale of property is in issue, evidence
of other frauds of like character committed by the same parties, at or near the same time, is admissible. Its admissibility
is placed on the ground that where transactions of a similar
character, executed by the same parties, are closely connected in time, the inference is reasonable that they proceed
from the same motive. The principle is asserted in Cary v.
&Totailiny,*and is sustained by numerous authorities. The
case of fraud, as there stated, is among the few exceptions
* 1 Hill, 317.

Dec. 1"8]

'GREEN'Iv. -VA- Busm .

. W8

Syllabus.

to the general rule that other Qffences of the accused are not
relevant to establish the -main charge.*
The declarations of each defendant, relating to the transaction undel consideration, were evidence against the other,
though made in the latter's bsence, if the two were engaged
at the'time in the furtherance of a common design to defraud
the plaintifts. The court placed their admissibility on fhat
ground, and instructed the jury that if they were made after
the consummation of the enterprise they shouid'not bd regarded.
It is possible that the court erred in its charge upon the
subject of damages in directing the jury to add interest to
the value of the goods. Interest is not allowable as a matter
of law, except in cases of c~ntract, 6r the unlawful detention
of money. In cases of tort its allowance as damages rests in
'the discretion of the jury, But the error, if it be one, cannot be taken advantage of by the defendants, for they took
no exception to the charge on that ground. The charge is
inserted at length in the bill, contrary to the proper practice,
as repeatedly stated in our decisions, and contrary to an express rule of this court. It embraces several distinct propo.
sitfons, and a general exception ,in such case cannot avail
the party if any one of them is correct.
JUDGMENT.AFFIRMED.

GREEN V.VAN BUSKIRK.
1. A., B., ana C. were residents and citizens of New York. A.beingiidebted
to both B. and C., and having certain chattels personal in Illinois, mortgaged them to B. Two days afterwardp, and before the mortgage could
be recorded in Illinois, or the property delivered there, both record and
delivery being necessary by the laws of Illinois, though not by, those of
New York, to the validity of the mortgage as against third parties, C.
issued an attachment, a proceeding in Tern, out of one of the courts of
Illinois, and, under its laws, indue form, leviea on and sold the property. B. did uot make himself a party to this suit in attachment, though
* See also Hall v. Naylor, 18 New York, 588, and Castle . Bullard, 23
Howard, 172.

