THE NICHOLS.

[Stip. Ct

Syllabus.

the United States, and being wholly owned by h. citizen or
cittzens thereof.*Ships or vessels hpt brought withi' these provisions of the
acts 6f Congress, and not entitled to the benefits and privileges thereunfo belonging, are ,of no more value as AmericaL vessels than the wood and iron out of which they are
constructed. Their substantial if not 'entire value consists
in their right to the character of national vessels, and to
have the protection of the national flag floating at their
mast's head.
Congress having created,.as it'were, this species of propC
erty, and conferred upon it its chief value under the power
given in the Constitution to regulate commerce, we perceive
no reason for entertaining any serious doubt but that this
power may be extended to the secnrity.and protection of the
rights and title of all persons dealing therein. Tht judicial
mind seems t? have generally taken this direction.t
DECREE REVERSED, and a
DECREE ENTERED VOR THE APPELLANT.

THE NICHOLS.
1. Sailing ships are '"meeting end on,", within the meaning of the eleventh
article of the act of Congress of April 29, 1864, fixing " Rules and Regulations for Preventing .ollisiois on the "Water," when they are approaching each other from opposite directions, or on such parallel lines
as involve risk of collision on aocounp of their proximity, fnd when the
vessels -have advanced so near to each other that the necessity for precautign to prevent such a .disaster begins; a condition which always depeids, to a certain'extent, upon the state of the navigation, and the circuinstances of the occasion.
2. The expression, "meeting nearly bnd on," in the same article, inclqdeg
Icases where'two sailing ghips are approaching from nearly opposite
di1 Stat. at Large, 2, 288.
f The MArtha Washirigton, 25 Law Reporter, 22; Fontaine v. Beers, 19
Alabama, 722; Mitchell v. Steelman, 8 California, 363; Shaw v. McCandless,
36 Mississippi, 296.

Dec. 1868.]

TH-0.
Niokois.,
Statemendt f t)ie case,

rectibuns,'or on lines of alp6och substantially psitalli, and so near to
each other as io involve risk of collision 5 but thb application of the rule
must be considered as iubject to the sime limitations and qtalifications
as is the phrase "1meeting end onf" in the same article.
8. Accordingly, two sailing vessels p.rsliing, in the night time, lhies which,
if followed, it was probable, would brihg them into c6llision, were edn?
sidered, when but two or three miles apart, as "meeting end" of. or
nearly end on, so as to involve risk of colliion"within the weaning
of the eleventh article above referred to, their rate of speed having been,
at the time, six miles an hour each, ana their rate of approximation,
therefore, a mile in each five minutes. Held, consequently, tliat the
helms of both vessels ought to have been put to port, as .provided for in
such contingencies by the said article, so that each nigiht have piassed on
the port side of the other. And a vessel which, in such circumstances,
put her helm a starboard, and was run down and sunk by the othdr vpssel, was held to have ho claim on'her for damages.,
4. Mistakes committed in moments of impending peril, by a vessel, in order
to avoid a catastrophe made imminent by the. mismanagement of those
in charge o flinother vessel, do not give the laiter, if sunk and Iost,,a
claini on the former for any damages.

BRowx, owning a schooner of that name,'filed a libel in the
District Court for.Northern New York, against thebarque
Nichols; the ground of his complaint being,- that the two
vessels being on Lake Erie, one going in one direction,"and
the other coming towards it in another nearly opposite,.abd
the two so approaching eacA other, the barque had, in viblation of the ',' Rules and Reguflations for Preventing Collisions on the Water, fixed by the act of Congress of April
29, 1664,* run into his schooner, ,and sunk her and her cargo.
The Phanix Insurance' Company, which had insured the
cargo, and paid for the loss, filed a sjinilar libel.
The case was thus:
Qongress, by the act above referred to, laid down certain
rules or articles, to prevent collisipns on the water, and
among.them these:
"Article 11. If two sailing ships are meeting end on, or nearly.
end on, so as to involve risk of.collision, the helms of both, shall
be put, to port;' so that each may pass, on the polt' side of the
other..
13 Stat. at tLarge, 60:
VOL. VIL

42

-

658

THE NICHOLS.

[Sup. 0t'.

Statement of the case.

"Article 12. When two sailing'ships are crossing, so as to in.
volve risk'of collision, then, if they have the wind on different
sides, the ship with the wind on the port side shall keep out of
the way of the ship with the wind on the starboard side, except
in the case in which the ship with the wind on the port side is closehauled and the other ship free, in which case the latter ship shall keep
out of the way. But if'
they have the wind on the same side. or
if one of them has the wind aft, the ship which is to windward shall
keep out of the way of the ship which is to leeward.
"Article 18. Where, by the above rules, one of two ships is
to keep out of the way, the other shall keep her course."
With these articles in force, the schooner was bound up
Lake Erie, of a elear, starlight night; her course west by
north. The barque was bound down it; her coiirse east by
south, half south-the two vessels being nearly dead ahead
of each other. The wind was from the northeast, and the
speed of each vessel full six miles an hour; the two so approaching one another at the rate of a mile every five minutes. The schooner had the wind free and on her starboard
side. The barquewas closehauled, with the wind on her
port side. Each vessel was seen from the other about the
same time, and when they were some two or 'three miles apart;
the evidence being conflicting as to the exact distance.
When the two vessels made each other, the mate of the
barque ordered her helmsnian to "keep her off a little,",so
as to give the schooner "a good full;" but as the vessels approached closely, he ordered him to "put the helm hard up,
and keep her right off;" in other words, to port the helm.
The effect of this was, of course, to turn the vessel's head
southward. Such were the manceuvres of the barque.
The master of the schooner, on his part, so soon as he saw
the barque's lights-judginog them to be two or three miles
off, -nearly dead ahead, a very little on our starboard bow"ordered his helm put starboard, "to keep her offto the west."
The vessels were advancing rapidly, and with the manciuvres
ordered, respectively, were fast approaching each other as
well. Two or three minutes before the collision-and the vessels being then not more than a quarter of a mile apart-the

Dec. 1868.]

THE NICHOLS.
Statement of the case.

master of the schooner "seeing the barque bearing down
on him, and that she was off the wind," ordered the wheel
of his schooner put "hard up," and to "let the main sheet
run out." The schooner accordingly swung to the south,
somewhat of the southwest. - But this was too late, or perhaps the very cause of the catastrophe. The barque advancing, went, bow first, and at right angles, into the starboard quarter of the schooner, and the schooner went down
at once.
The collision being, of course, the exact result which was
liable to follow from the combined manoeuvres of the vessels,
the question was, which vessel had made the false navigation,
under the act 'of Congress? And this question involved
largely a consideration of the element and effects of distance; that is to say, in this particular case, the proximity of
the vessels at the time when the master of the schooner gave
the first order to starboard.
The District Court, not without hesitation, came to the
conclusion that the distance between the vessels at this time
-two or three miles-was such that the master was not in
fafult in making the order; that the case fell within the twelfth
rule, and that the barque ought not to have changed her
course. Conceding that the vessels were clearly approaching
each other, ""nearly end on," and that if they had both continued their courses, they would soon, have been "meeting
nearly endT on, so as to involve risk 6f collision," within the
meaning of the eleventh- rule; that court was yet in doubt
whether, at the distance at which these vessels were when
they iirst made each other, they 'vere "meeting end on, . . .
so as to involve risk of collision," which the plain import of the
eleventh rule required them to be before both were obliged
to port their helms. It accordingly dismissed the libels.
On, appeal, the Circuit Court was of a different opinion.
The vessels being ifearly dead ahead, their combined speed
being twelve miles an hour, and they being thus within ten
to fifteen minutes of meeting, that court considered that they
were "dangerously close together," and their proimity such
that the execution of the first order to starboard the helm of

660-

THE NIC OLS.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument for the hcbooner.

the schooner; involved not only the risk of the collision, but
was the controlling cause of it; and thinking that the master
of the schooner had mistaken the position of the barque, and
haA supposed that her lights were to the windward, when, in
fa9t, they 'were to. the leeward, reversed the District Court's
decrees..
The correctnes.s of this reversal was the question now here,
on appeals by the,owner of the schooner and by the insurers
of her cargo, the Phoenix Company.
Mr. Hibbard,for the appellants:"
1. There is no risk of collision when vessels, upon an open
lake, and in a clear night, make each other at the distance
of two orthree miles; nor would there have been the slightest danger of collision, in this, case, had not the barque disregarded the eighteenth article, and changed her course.
The act of Congress contemplates such, nearness of approach, and imminency of danger,' as makes it necessary for
both vessels to change; for, beyond question, the act will
not be so construed as to require unnecessary manouvres.
Certainly it is not necessary that both should so change when
they are two miles or anything like that distance apart upon
an open lake.* On a narrow river the rule might be different.
- If the eleventh article does not apply, it of necessity follows that the twelfth and eighteenth do, and if the bat'que
changed her course (as it is plain that she finally did), she
violated absolutely a statutory provision, and must be in
fault; for if a vessel bound to keep her course,.changes that
course, how can a vessel bound to "keep out of her way,"
know where to turn to avoid her?
2, The case being to be governed by the twelfth and
eighteenth articles, it follows that the barque was bound to
"keep her course." The schooner was bound simply to
"keep out of the way." To do this she could either port or
starboard, as she pleased.
* The Ericsson, Swabey, 38; The Monticello, 17 Howard, 152.

Dec, 1868.]

THE. NICHOLS.
-Opinion of tho court.

3. As the iNichols largely changed her course, and cowmenced th at change when the vessels were yet at a consider
able distance apart,that change must mike her solely responsible for all the damage done by this collision.
Mr. Ganson, contra, contended that there was not any necessity for any change of course on the part of the schooner;
that she was on a course that would have taken her safely
to the northward and windward of the barque; that there
was nothing to prevent her pursuing that course; and that
the change of her course caused the collision. Nfeither the
eleventh nor twelfth articles applied therefore ,to the case,
but the schooner was guiltyok bringing about the collision,
by attempting tb pars across the bows of the barque 'When
there was no occasion for her so doing; and in violation of
the rules of navigation.
'Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opiniofn of the court.
Controversies growing out of collisions between, ships on
navigable waters are in general of easy. solution in cases
where tlie facts are agreed, or' where there is no material
conflict in the testimony of the witnesses. Few cases- however, find their way into the tribunals of justice where the
witnesses examined in the 'case concur either as to which
vessel was in fault, or as to the circumstances attending the
collision. On the contrary, such investigations are almost.
always complicated and embarrassed with conflicting tbstimony, and sometimes to such an extent that it is exceedingly
difficult to form any satisfactory conclusion upon the merits.
Some of the causes which promote such contrariety of
recollection are, that the moment when the collision occurs
is. necessarily one of alarm, and, frequently, of consternation,
and also because the disaster is seldom witnessed with mucl
care by any persons other than those on 'board' the respective
vessels, and all experience shows that they are quite too apt
to see fault in the navigation of the other vessel, more
readily than in that of the vessel to which they belong.
Where such conflict exists the inquiry is very perplexing,

662

Tiis NICHOLS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

and the difficulty can only be overcome in a satisfactory
manner by a critical analysis of the testimony, and a careful
comparison of the respective conflicting statements of the
witnesses with the undisputed or well-established facts and
circumstances developed in the testimony.
Decrees of an entirely opposite character were rendered
in this case in the District and Circuit Courts, obviously oil
account of diferences of opinion produced by the conflicting character of the testimony, and the appellants now set
up a theory different from either of those adopted in the
courts below, and it must be admitted that it finds some
support in the evidence exhibited in the transcript.
In the investigation of such a case the first step is to ascertain the facts material to the issue involved in the pleading.,
but in accomplishing that purpose, in this case, it is not
deemed necessary to enter much into the details of the testiniony, as any such a discussion would not benefit the parties nor any one else not possessed of the entire record.
Views of the District Court were that the Nichols was in
fault, but the Circuit Court was of a different opinion, and
reversed the decree, and dismissed the libel. Appeal was
taken by the libellant from that decree of the Circuit Court
to this court. Succinctly stated, the material facts of the
case, as they appear to the court, are as follows:
Heavily laden with coal and iron, the schooner William
0. Brown was bound up Lake Erie, oii a voyage from Buffilo to Chicago. Her course was west by north, and when
the collision occurred she was about half way between Little's
Point and Bar Point, and about one and a half miles from
the Canada shore. Statement as to the voyage of the barque
A. P. Nichols is, that she came out from Detroit River early
in the evening before the collision, and that she was bound
down the lake to Buffilo, laden with a full cargo of corn.
Undisputed fact is that she was heading east by south, half
south, and that she, as well as the schooner, had competent
lookouts properly stationed on the vessel. Both vessels also
showed good lights, as required by law, and they were well
ma1nned and equipped. Prior to their arrival at the place

Dec. 186&.]"

THE NICHOL..
Opinion of the .court.

whore the collision occurred they had met with no difficulty,
and 'they had fair weather and a good breeze from the northeast, not exceeding six or seven knots, and.the speed of the
respective vessels was about six miles an hour. Parties agree
that the time and place of the collision-is truly alleged in the
libel, and there is -neither fact nor circumstance -inthe cse
to warrant the concl usioni that it.was the resuit of any. other
cause than faulty navigation. Inexcusable as the disaster
was, the principal question is, which 'vessel was in fault?
When the vessels came together they had sufficient sea room,
and-they were both under full sail. The sihooner had the
wind free, and on her starboard side, but the barque was
closehauled, with the wind on her port side. They were on
lines which diverged hpt more than half a point, and which,,
in any event, if they continued their respective courses, would
bring them into collision. Obliged to change their. course
or collide, the true inquiry is, what should have been done?
Clear weight of the evidence is that each vessel was seen
feom-the deck of the other, about the same time, when they
were some two or three miles -apart, and as they were approaching 'each other from nearly opposite directions' it is
quite clear, under the regulations enacted by Congress, that
the helms of both should have been put to port, -so that.
each might have passed on the port sidje of the other, unless
the distance between them, .atthat precise time, was so great
as not to involve risk of collision. Rules of navigation are
obligatory upon vessels approaching each other, from the
time the necessity for precaution begins, and continue to be
applicable as the vessels *advance, so long as the means and
opportunity to avoid the danger remain.*
When the two vessels made each other it was the mate's
watch on board the Nichols. and he had command of her
deck. His first 'order to the man at the wheel was to keep
her off a little, so as to give the vessel ahead a good full; but
as the vessels advanced, seeing that there was danger of collision, he gave the order to put the helm "hard up and keep
*Mail
Steamship Company v. Bumball, 21 Howard,
Swabey, 88; Lo vndes on Collision, 24.

84; The Ericsson,

Tim. INicHOLS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

her right off," which, under the circumstances, was equivalent to the order to port the helm, as the helmsman stands
on the weather side of the wheel, and consequently the effect
of the order " b ard up," when executed, was to bring the
heln to port, and turn the prow of the vessel to the leeward.
Betbre remarking further as to the movements of the
barque, it becomes necessary to ascertain what was done on
board the schooner, as she was approaching from nearly the
opposite direction, at. about the same speed. Her master
admits that he saw both side lights of the other vessel at the
samne time, and lie testifies thlat he immediately ordered the
hehn of his vessel to be put to starboard. Plain effect of
that order, when executed, was to turn the prow of the vessel
to the leeward, instead of hugging the wind closer, as she
should have done, to avoid a collision.
Article eleven of the regulations enacted by Congress
provides that if two sailing ships are meeting end on, or
nearly end on, so as to involve risk of collision, the helms
of both shall be put to port, so that each may pass on the
pirt side of the other.
Sailing ships are meeting end on within th . meaning of
that provision when they are approaching each otbe-r from
opposite directions, or on such parallel lines.as involve risk
of collision on account of their proximity, and when the vessels have advanced so near to each other that the necessity
for precaution to prevent such a disaster begins, which callnot be precisely defined, as it must always depend, to a certain extent, upon the state of the navigation, and the circurestances surrounding the occasion.
Where vessels approaching are yet so distantfrom cach
other, or -where the lines of approach, though parallel, are
so far apart as not to involve risk of collision, that rule ot"
navigation has no application to the case.
Much greater -difficulty will arise ihiany attempt to define, with technical accuracy, the pbiiisc nearly end on, as
the language itself is in terms somew'hat indefinite. Such
attempts have been nade in the EiizlislI Admiralty Court,
but without much raotical -sucuQs.s.. Xearly end on, as the

Me.

1868.]

NicOoLS.
Dec. 8~8.1THE
* Opinion of the' court.,

phrase is employed in that article, rmay doubtless be constrded to include cases Where two sailing ships are approaching from nearly opposite directions, or on. lines of approach
each other as to inVolve
substantially parallel, and so near t.o
risk of collision but the application of the' rule must also
be'considered as subject to the same limitations ard qualifi:
cations as the preceding pbiase.in the same ar'ticle. Decided cases may be found in the English admiralty reports
where the attempt is made to define, with precision; how
great the variation may be from opposite directions, or from
parallel lines, and the case still be within the eleventh article;
but the present case does not necessarily involve that inquiry,
as the variation, in any view of the evidence, did not exceed
half a point by the compass, which is -clearly insufficient to
take the case out of the operation of that article.*
Argument for the appellant is, that the distance between
the two vessels was so great when the helm of the schooner.
was put to starboard that it cannot be considered as a fault,
and such, it seems, Was the opinion of the district judge; but
the proposition, in view of the circurimstances, cannot bb'sustaiped, as it was in the. night time; and the 'ombided- speed
of the two vessels was at least twelve miles an hour, arid
pone of the witnesses pretend that more than ten or. fifteen
minutes elapsed after the scond order of the master of the
schoonpr was ,given, to' put the helm hard up, before the
collision took place.
Strong 'doubts are entertained whether the effect of the
first mistake made by'the schooner.,would have caused a
collision if she had then kept her course; 'but the second
order to put the helm hard up, was fatal as the schooner
then fell off even faster 'than the barque, and the collision
became inevitable. Particular 'description of the effect of.
that movement need not be given, except to say that it
brought the schooner- directly across the bows of the barque.
Cbnfirmation of this view is derived from the conceded fact;
that the schooner .was struck by the stem of thetbarque on
* Holt's Rule of the Road, 64, 70, 154.

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ch.

Syllabus.

her starboard quarter. The effect of the blow was that she
sunk, and, with her cargo, became a total loss.
Remaining proposition of the appellant is, that the barque
is also in fault, because her helm, just before the collision
occurred, was put to starboard; but it is clear that the error,
if it was one in that emergency, was produced by the inpending peril, which is justly chargeable to those having
the control and management of the other vessel. Mistakes
committed in such moments of peril and excitement, when
produced by the mismanagement of those in charge of the
other vessel, are not of a character to relieve the vessel
causing the collision from the payment of full damages to
the injured vessel.
Appeal was taken to this court at the same time from the
decree of the court below, in the case of The P/ehnix insurance (onmpany v. James 1R. Slanson, claimant, &c., aud the two
cases were argued here together, as the parties conceded that
they depend upon the same facts. All the testimony was
taken in the first case, and the stipulation of the parties is,
that it should be regarded as also taken in the other, and
that both cases should be heard at the same time. Libellants in this case were insurers of the cargo, and having
paid the loss to the owner, they claimed that they were
subrogated to his rights and interests, and that, by reason
thereof, they had a lien upon the barque for the amount
which they paid to the owner of the cargo. Evidently the
appeal is disposed of by the opinion in the other case.
DECREES AFFIRMED.

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.
1. The government of the United States has a right to use bills of exchange
in conducting its fiscal operations, as it has the right to use any other
appropriate means of accomplishing its legitimate purposes.
2. When the government becomes a party to such a bill, it is bound by the
samb rules in determining its rights and its liabilities as individuals are.

