290

MEAD V. BALLARD.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

ises to any purpose whicb would render valueless the adjoining real estate of the complainant.
Considered in any point of view, our conclusion is, that
the decree of the State court was correct; and the decision
in this case also disposes of the appeal brought here by the
same appellants, from a decree rendered by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, in
favor of George D. Humphreys and others, which was a bill
in equity against the same respondent corporation. The
appeal in that case depends substantially upon the same
facts, and must be disposed of in the same way. Both decrees are
AFFIRMED.

MEAD V.

BALLARD.

1. A grant of land, "said land being conveyed upon the express understanding and condition" that a certain institute of learning then incorporated
"shall be permanently located upon said lands," between the date of the

deed and the same day in the succeeding year, is a grant upon condition,
a condition subsequent.
2- Such permanent location was made and the condition was thus fulfillpd
when the trustees passed a resolution locating the building on the laud.

with the intention that it should be the permanent place of conducting
the business of the corporation.

And this, notwithstanding that the

building erected in pursuance of the resolution was afterwards destroyed
by fire, and the institute subsequently erected on another piece of land.

to the Circuit Court for Wisconsin.
Mead brought ejectment in the court below against Balard to recover certain land which the ancestor of him
(Mead) had conveyed for a full consideration, on the 7th
September, 1847, to Amos Lawrence, of Boston, in fee. The
deed contained the usual covenants of warranty, and also a
clause expressed in these words:
ERROR

"Said land being conve3 d upon the express understanding
and condition that the Lawrence Institute of Wisconsin, chartered by the legislature of said Territory, 6hall be permanently

Dec. 1868,]

MEAD

v. BALLARD.

291 "

Argument for the heir.

located upon said lands, and on failure of such locationbeing made on
or before the 7th day of September, 1848, and on repayment of the
purchase-money without interest, the said land shall revert to
and become the property of said grantors."
On the 9th of August, 1848, the board of trustees of the
Lawrence Institute passed a resolution locating the Institute
m the-land described in the deed. Contracts were made
for the necessary buildings, which were commenced immediately, and they were finished and the institution in full
operation by 'Yovember, 1849. These buildings cost about
$8000, but were burned down in the year 1857, and never
rebuilt. It was also said that in 1853, a larger building, called
the University, was erected on an adjoining tract.
In 1851, Lawrence sold to one Wright part of the tract
which had been conveyed, as above stated, to him; and in
1853 Wright sold it to Ballard. Mead now, in 1865, being
sole heir of the original grantor, and alleging that the facts
constituted an infraction of the condition on which the land
had been- conveyed, made a tender, through an agent, to
Lawrence,.of the amount originally paid by Lawrence for
thd tract-depositing the money in Boston "where he could
get it at any time he chooses"-and brought this ejectment.
The jury, under charge of the court, that if the Institute
was located on the tract on or before the 7th of September,
1848, and if the directors then proceeded to erect a building
which was used by it in its business, the plaintiff could not
claim a forfeiture, found for the defendant; and the case was
brought here on exceptions by the plaintiff.
Mr. Palmer,for the plaintiff in error:
1. The conveyance made by Mead to Lawrence, was made
upon a condition, a condition subsequent. As a consequence,
the estate in the lands described therein, vested in Lawrence,
on -the execution and delivery of the deed, September 7,
1847, subject, however, to be defeated by the failure or
neglect of the grantee to perform the conditions.
2. The estate was so defeated. There is no reason to

MEAD V. BALLARD.

[Sup. Or.

Argument for the heir.

doubt that the grantor (Mead) intended by the language of
his deed-" permanently located "-to secure a fixed and continued location of the principal buildings of the Institute
upon the lands conveyed. Nor could he have chosen words
more apt to express his purpose.
The word "permanent" is derived from the Latin per, an
expression which in composition is an intensitive, and here
means thoroughly, or completely; and the Latin manrens,
whose signification is "remaining," or "lasting." Permanent means, therefore, and is so defined by Noah Webster,
"continuing in the same state without any change that destroys the form or nature of the thing," . . "with long continuance, durably, in a fixed state or place." And permanently locating a building, means, both etymologically and
within the plain meaning of this deed,-not choosing a spot
for a building-such choice is implied in the acceptance of
the lot-but permanently placing the building on that spot.
Of what value to a founder's pride would it be to select the
place and then abandon it? Such a location would be what
the law calls "illusory;" a mockery, and nothing else. The
grantor associated his real estate, a symbol' of perpetuity,
with himself, and meant to identify his estate with a seat of
learning, though it bore not his name. The trustees accept,
in form, from him, that real estate, his gift, subject to an
express condition; and when the gift is well passed to them,
they pitch away the condition and retain the gift simply. If
there is a condition in the case at all, it cannot be disposed
of in this way.
The University was not permanently located; a temporary structure was erected in 1848, which was burned in
1857. The main building, or University proper, was commenced in 1853, on another tract. Such an abandonment
of the premises conveyed as a site for the University, and a
"permanent" location of it upon the new tract, was a violation of this condition of the deed with respect to the permanency of the location.
3. The condition contained in the deed having been violated, the contingency arose in which the land conveyed

Dec. 1868.]

MVEAD

v. BArLLARD.

Opinion of the court.

"reverted to and became the property of the grantor, on repayment of the purchase-money." The plaintiff, sole heir
at law of the grantor, caused the purchase-money to be tendered to Lawrence, and in a few months afterwards brought
this action.
Mr. G. W. Laldn, contra:
1. The words hardly make a condition. The language of
the ceed being dictated by the grantor must be taken strictly
against him, especially when the language is set up to destroy
an estate granted. The technical language of a condition
is, "provided, however, that this conveyance is upon the
condition," &c. But-'
2. The condition in the deed was and has been performed
and fultilled. The thing to be done was to locate the Lawrence Institute on the tract of land, on or before the 7th
day of September, 1848. The word "locate" is peculiarly
au American word. On the meaning of any such word,
Noah 'ebster is the highest authority. Now, to locate, is
defined by him, "to designate or determine the place of."
It does not mean to erect and forever keep erected; which
is its meaning as assumed by opposing counsel. The board
of trustees -did designate and determine the place of the
Lawrence Institute. The purchaser could not be held to
look beyond the fact of an actual location; certainly not beyond the fact of an actual erection of the Institute. He was
not bound to look through all oming time to ascertain if
the elements, legislation, or some convulsion of nature should
extinguish and destroy it. The destruction of the main building in 1857, by fire, therefore, and its subsequent erection on
the tract adjoining, could not work a forfeiture of the condi-tion, or a reversion of the title to the plaintiff. At any rate,
such an event could not affect the title of the defendant, who
had purchased in good faith, and who had improved and
occupied years before the evbnt happened.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, who sues as heir-at-law of the grantors, main.

MEAD

v.BALLARD.

[Stil. Ct

Opinion of the court.

tains that the condition contained in the deed from Mead to
Lawrence, is a condition subsequent which has not been performed, and having tendered the money received by them,
he now claims the right to recover the land.
It must be conceded that the language of the deed amounts
to a condition subsequent, and as no point was made in the
trial as to the sufficiency of the tender, the only question before us is whether the condition was performed.
That condition was, that a permanent location of the Institute on the land should be made between the date of the
deed and the same day of the succeeding year. The location, then, whatever may have been its character, was something which could have been done and completed within one
year. If it was done within that time the plaintiff's right
of reverter was gone. If it was not done within the year, he
could refund the money and recover the land. His right,
on, whatever it depended, must have be-n complete on the
7th day of September, 1848, for within that time the condition was to be performed.
The thing to be done was the location of the Institute.
Did this mean that all the buildings which the institution
might ever need were to be built within that time, or did it
mean that the officers of the institution were to determine,
in good faith, the place where the buildings for its use
should be erected? It is clear to us that the latter was the
real meaning of the parties, and that when the trustees
passed their resolution locatilig the building on the land, with
the intention that it should be the permanent place of conducting the business of the corporation, they had.permaneutly
located the Institute within the true construction of the contract.
Counsel for the plaintiff attach to the word -"permanent,"
in this 'onnection, a meaning inconsistent with the obvious
intent of the parties, that the condition was one which might
be fully performed within a year. Such a construction is
something more than a condition to locate. It is a covenant
to build and rebuild; a covenant against removal at any time;
V covenant to keep up an institution of lea-ning on that land

Dec. 1868.]

JACOBS v. BAKER.
Statement of the case.

forever, or for a very indefinite time. This could not have
been the intention of the parties.
We are of opinion that the testimony shows, in any view
that can be taken of it, that the condition was fully complied
with and performed, and with it passed all right of reversion
to the grantor or his heirs.
The rulings of the Circuit Court to which exceptions were
taken were in conformity to these views, and its
JUDGMENT IS. AFFIRMED.

JACOBS V. BAKER.
1. Semtbe that an improvement in the plan of constructing a jail, is not a subject of patent within the Patent Acts of 1836 or 1842.
2. Jacobs was not the first inventor of the improvements patented to him in
1859 and 1860, for improvements in the construction of jails.

JAcoBS filed a bill in the Circuit Court for Southern Ohio
against Baker, seeking relief for the infringement of four
separate patents, which had been granted to him, Jacobs, for
improvements in the construction of prisons. The bill set. forth
the different patents.
The first, dated January 7th, 1859, was for an improvement
in the construction of prisons, which the complainant set
forth in his specification with very numerous plates and designs. The claim concluded thus: "What I claim as my
invention, and desire to secure by letters patent, is a secret
passage, or guard-chamber, around the outside of an ironplate jail, and between said jail and a surrounding inclosure,
constructed and arranged, substantially as described, for the
purpose set forth." [The purpose was to allow the keeper
to oversee and overhear the prisoners, without their being
conscious of his presence.]
The next patent was dated 20th December, 1859, and purported to be for an "improvement in iron-plate jails." The
claim was for "the improved iron walls for the same, con-

