Doc. 1868. ]

LANE CouXN; ORdoBT.

.71

.Statement of thle case.

the naster to take a licensed pilot and making provision for
the payment of pilot fees, do not amount to a compulsion
to take a pilot, and I am satisfied they are correct, and that
such a statute cannot be set up, as exempting a ship frpm
responsibility whil$ nayigated by a lidensed pilot.
Believing those decisions to be correct, I cannot*conse.nt
to pronoudnce them incorrect, especially as no such, co'nclusion is neessary to the right disposi'tion of the present case.
Neither the common law courts nor the qqurts of admiralty,in. this country, have adopted t&e. rhle established by Dr.'
Lusbington. On the contrary, they all have held that the
State laws requiring the master to, pay pilot fees,. whether
he employed a pilot 6r not, did not compel him to-surrender
the navigation, of his ship to the licensed pilot, or prevent
him from continuing in the command of his ship. Dissenting as I do from the rule laid down in the JEnglish cQurts; I
concur With the majority of the court'in overruling those
decisions as applied to our jurisprudence, but I caunot concur in otetruling the American decisions which assert the
opposite doctrine, because I believe they are correct.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

LANE, COUNTY V. t7REGON.

1. Afn enactment in a State statute that "1the sheriff shall pay over to. th(
county treasurer the full amount of the tate and school taxes, in gold
and silver coin," and that "1the several county treasurers shall pay over
to the State treasurer the-State tax, in gol4 and silver coin," requires'by
legitimate, if not necessary consequence, that the taxes named be collected
in coin. But if, in the judgment of this court, this were otherwise, yet
the Supreme Cpurt"of the State having held this construction to be correct, this court will follow their adjudication.
2. The clauses in the. several acts of Congress, of 1862 and. 1863; making
United States notes a legal tender for debts, have no reference to taxes
imposed by State authority. โข

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Oregon.. The case was

this:
Congress, February,'1862, authorized the issue of 6150-

LANE COUNTY V. OREGON.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

000,000 in notes of the United States, and enacted that they
should "be receivable in payment of all taxes, internal
duties, levies, debts, and demands due to the United States,
except duties on imports; and of all claims and demands
of any kind whatever against the United States, except interest
on bonds and notes, which shall be paid in coin; and shall
also be lawful money and legal tender in payment of all
debts, public and private, within the United States, except
duties on imports." A subsequent act, authorizing a further issue, contained an enactment very similar, as to the
legal characteristics of the notes, when issued. A third act,
authorizing a yet further issue, enacted simply that they
should be lawful money or a legal tender. Under these
three 'acts, a large amount of notes of the United States,
whih -circulated as money, were issued.
Subsequently to this, the legislature of Oregon passed a
statute, enacting that, "the sheriff shall pay over to the
county treasurer, the full amount of the State and school taxes,
in gold and silver coin;"* and that "the several county treasurers shall pay over to the State treasurer the State tax in gold
and silver coin."t
In this condition of statute law, Federal and State, the
State of Oregon, in April, 1865, filed a complaint against
the County of Lane, in the Circuit Court of the 9tate for
that county, to recover $5460.96, in gold and silver coin, which
sum was alleged to have become due, as State Vevenue, from
the"county to the State, on the first Monday of February,
1864.
To this complaint an answer was put in by the county,
alleging a tender of the amount claimed by the State, made
on the 23d day of January, 1864, to the State treasurer, at
his office,'iu United States notes, and averring that the lawful
money, so tendered and offered, was, in truth and fact, part
of the fis3t moneys collected and paid into the county treasury, after the assessment of taxes for the year 1862..
To this answer there was a demurrer, which was sustained
* Statutes of Oregon, 438,

82.

-t 1b. 441,

46.

Dec., i[868.]

LANE' COUNTY V. OREGON.
Opinion of the court.

by the Circuit Court, and judgment was given that the plain
tiff recover of the defendant the-sum claimed, in gold and
silver coin, with costs of suit. This judgment was affirmed,
upon writ of error, by the Supreme Court of the State.
The case was now brought heie by writ of error to thax
court.
*fr. Williams, for Lane County, plaintiff in error, laid down
,and pressed upon the- attention of the court, seeking to
'maintain them by argument and authority, these two propositions :*
1st. That the laws of: Oregon did not require the collection, in coin, of the taxes in question, and that the ti'easurer
of the county could not be required to pay the treasurer of
the State any other money than that in which the taxes were
actually collected.
2d. That the tender of the amount of taxes made to the
treasurer of the State, by the treasurer of the county, in
United States notes, was warranted by the acts of Congress
authorizing the issue of these notes, and that the law of the
State, if it required collection and payment in coin, was repugnant to these acts, and therefore void.
Mr. Johnson (a brief of Mr. Mallory being filed), contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Two propositions have been pressed, up6n our attention,
ably and earnestly, in behalf of the plaintiff in error.
The first of them will be first considered.
The answer avers, substantially, that the money tendered
was pArt of the first moneys collected in Lane County after
the assessment of 1863, and the demurrer admits the truth
of the answer.

The fact therefore may be taken as established, that tl~e
* He cited Bouvier's Law Dictionary, title "Debt;" Multnomah County v.
The State, 1 Oregon, 358; Rhodesv. Farrell, 2 Nevada, 60; Ohio v. Hibbard,.
8 Ohio, 63;' Same v. Gazlay, 5 Id. 14; Appleton v. Hopkins, 5 Gray, 530:
Blac tone's Commentaries, 160.

LANE COUNTYV. OREGON.

. [Sup.

Ct,

Opinion of the court.

taxes for that year,. in Lane County, were collected in
United States notes.
But was this in conformity, with the laws of Oregon?
In this court the construction given by the State courts
to the laws of a State, relating to local 4zffairs, is uniformly
received as the true construction; and the question first
stated must have been passed upon in reaching a conclusion
upon the demurrer, both by the Circuit Court for the county
and by the Supreme Court of the State. Both courts must
have held that the statutes of Oregon, either directly or by
clear implication,, required the collection of taxes in gold
-and silver coin.
Nor do we perceive anything strained or uureasoiable in
this construction. The laws of Oregon, As quoted in the
brief for the State, provided that"the sheriff shall pay over
to the county treasurer the full amount of the State and
school taxes, in gold and silver coin;" and that "the several
county treasurers shall pay over to the State treasurer the
,St te tax, in gold and silver coin.",
It is certainly a legitimate, if not a necessary inference,
that 1he~e taxes were required to be collected in coin.
Nothing short of express words would warrant-us in saying
that the laws authorized collection in one description of
money from the people, and required payment over of the
same taxes into the county and State treasuries in another.
If, in our judgment, however, this point were otherwise,
we should still be bound by the soundest principles -ofjudicial admin'istration, and by a long train of decisions in this
court, to regard the judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon, so far as it depends on the right construction of the
statutes of that State, as free from error.
The second proposition remains to be examined, and this
inquiry brings us to the consideration of the acts of Congress, authorizing the issue of the notes in which the tendbr
was made.
The first of these was the act of February 25, 1862, which
authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to issue, on the

De. ;1808.1

1LANn CO.UiTY.V. PIAEGON,
Qpinidx of the court.

credit of the United States, one hundred and.fifty millions
of dollars in United States notes, and provided that these

notes "shall. be receivable in payment of all taxes, internal
duties, excises, debts, and demands due to the United States,
.,except duties on, imports, and of all claims and deiiaands
against the United States of every kind whatsoever, except
interest on borids apd notes, which.shall be paid in coin;
and 'shall also be lawful money and. legal tender in payment
of all delts, public and private, within the, United States,,
except duties on imports and interest as aforesaid."
The second act contains- a provision nearly in the same
words with that just recited, and under these two acts' two,
thirds of the entire issue was authorized. It is unnecessary,
therefore, to 'refer to the third act, by which the notes to be
,issued under it are not 'in terms made receivable and payabld, but are simply declared to be lawful money and a legal
tender.
In the first act no emission was authorized of any notes
under five dollars, nor in the other two of any under one'
dollar. The notes, authorized by different statutes, for parts
of a dollar, were never 'declared to be lawful money or.-a
lega.l tender.*
It is obvious, therefore, that a legal tender in United States
notes of the precise amount of taxes admittbd to be due-to
the State could not be made. Coin was then, and is now,
the only, legal tender for debts less than one dollar. In the
view whil we take qf this case, this is not importaht. It
is mentioned only to show that the general words "all debts"
were not intended to be taken'ih a sense absolutqly literal:
Wo proceed then to inquire whether, upon a sound construction of the acts,, taxes imposed by a State government
upon the people of the State, are debts within their true
meaning.
In examining this question it will be proper *to give some
attention to the constitution of the States and to their rela
tions as United States.
12 Stat.,at Large, 592; Ib. 711.

LANE COUNTY V. OREGON.

[Sup. Cc.

Opinion of the court.

The people of the United States constitute one nation,
under ohe government, and this government, within the
scope of the powers with which it is invested, is supreme.
On the other hand, the people of each State compose a
State, having its own government, and endowed with all
the functions essential to separate and independent existence. The States disunited might continue to exist. Without the States in union there could be no such political body
as the United States.
Both the States and the United States existed before the
Constitution. The people, through that instrument, established a more perfect union by. substituting a national government, acting, with ample power, directly upon the 6itizeus, instead of the Confederate government, which acted
with powers, greatly restricted, only upon the States. But
in many articles of the Constitution the necessary existence
of the States, and, within their proper spheres, the independent authority of the States, is distinctly recognized. To

them nearly the whole charge of interior regulation is committed or left; to them and to the people all powers not
expressly delegated to the national government are reserved.
The general condition was well stated by'Mr. Madison in
the Federalist, thus: " The Federal and State governments
are in fact but difthrehft agents and trustees of the people,
constituted with different powers and designated for different
purposes."
Now, to the existence of the States, themselves necessary
to the existence of the United States, the power of taxation
is indispensable. It is an essential function of government.
It was exercised by the Colonies; and when the Colonies became States, both before and after the formation of the Confederation,it was exercised by the new governments. Under
the Articles of Confederation the government of the United
States was limited in the exercise of this power to requisi
tions upon the States, while the whole power of direct and
indirect taxation of persons and property, Whether by taxes
on polls, or duties on imports, or duties on internal production, nianufitcture, or use, was acknowledged to beiong ex-

Dec. 1868.]

LANE COUNTY V. OREGON.
Opinion of the court.

elusively to the States, without any- other limitation than
that of non-interference with certain treaties made by Congress. The Constitution, it is true, greatly changed this
condition of things. It gave the power to tax, both directly
and indirectly, to the national government, and, subject to
the one prohibition of any tax upon exports and to the
conditions of uniformity in respect to indirect and of proportion in respect to direct taxes, the power was given without any express reservation. On the other hand, no power
to tax exports, or imports except for a single purpose and to
an insignificant extent, or to lay any duty on tonnage, was per-'
mitted to the States. In'respect, however, to property, busine'ss, and persons, within their respective limits, their power
of taxation remained and remains entire. It is indeed a concurrent power, and in the case of a tax on the same subject
by both governments, the claim of the United States, as the
supreme authority, must be preferred; but with this qualification it is absolute. The extent to which it shall be
exercised, the subjects upon which it shall be exercised, and
the mode in which it shall be exercised, are all equally within
the discretion of the legislatures to which the States commit
the exercise of the power. That discretion is restrained
only by the will of the people expressed in the State constitutions or through elections, and by the condition that it
must not be so used as to burden or embarrass the operations
of the natiohal government. There is nothing in the Constitution which contemplates or authorizes any direct abridgment of this power by national legislation. To the extent
just indicated it is as complete in the States as the like
power, within the limits of the Constitution, is complete in
Congress. If, therefore, the condition of any State, in the
judgment of its legislature, requires the collection.of taxes
in kind, that is to say, by the delivery to the proper officers
.of a certain proportion of products, or in gold and silver
bullion, or in gold and silver coin, it is not easy to see upon
what principle the national legislature can interfere with the
exercise, to that end, of this power, original in the States,
and never as yet surrendered. If this. be so, it is, certainly,

LAiTE COUNTY '. OREGOIN.

[Silp. or,

Opinion of the court.

a reasonable conclusion that Congress did notintend, by the
general, terms of the currency acts, to restrain the exercise
of this power in the, manner shown by the statutes of Oregon.'
Other considerations strengthen this conclusion. It cannot Iescape observation that the provision intended to give
currency to the United States notes in the two acts of 1862,
consists of two quite distinguishable clauses. The first of
these cl auses makes those notes receivable in payment of all
dues to the United States, and payable ,in satisfaction of all
demands against the United States, with specified exceptions; the second'makes them lawful money; and a legal
tendere in payment 'of debts, public and private, within the
United States, with the same exceptions.
It seems quite probable that the first clause ohly was in
the original bill, and that the second was afterwards introduced during its progress into an'act. However this may
be? the fact that both clauses' were made part' of the act of
February, and were retained in the act of July, 1862; indicates clearly enough the 'intention of Conigress that both
shall be construed together. Now, in the first clause, taxes
are plainly distinguished, in enumeration; from debts; and
it is not an unreasonable inference, that thb wotd debts in
the Other clause was not intended to include taxes.
It must be 'observed 'that the first clause, which may be
called the receivability and payabitity clause, imposes no restriction wnatever upon the States in the eollection of taxes.
It makes the notes receivable for national taxes, but does
not make them re'ceivable for State taxes. On the eontrar-,
the express reference to receivability by the natilonal government, and the omission of all reference to receivability by
the State governments, excludes the hypothesis of an ,intention on the part of Congress to cdnipel the States'to receive
them as revenue.
And it must also be observed that any.construction of the
second, or, as it may well enough be called, legal-tender
clause, that includes 'dues for taxes under the words debts,
public and private, must deprive the first clause, of all effect
whatever, For if those words, rightly apprehended, include

Dec. 1868.1

LANE CouNTY Vi OREGOT.
Opinion of the court.

State taxes, they certainly indlude national taxes'also; and
if they include national, taxes, the claue making them receivable for such taxes was wholly unnecessary and superfUlOns.

It.is also proper to be observed, that a technical construction of the words in questionmight defeat the main purpose'
of the act, which, doubtless, was to provide a .currency iii
which the receip.ts arid. payments incident to the .exigencies'
of the then existing civil war might be made.
In his work on the Constitution, the late Mr. "Justice
Story, whose praise as a jurist is in all civilized lands, speaking of the clause ii the Constitution giving' to Congress the
power to lay and collect taxes, says, of the theory wiyMch
would limit the power to the object of paying the debts,
that, thus limited, it would be only-a power to provide for
the payment of debts then existing.* *And certain], if a narro* and limited interpretation would thus restrict the. word
debts in- the Cohstitution, the same sort of interpretation
would, ip like mAnner; restrict-the same wprd in the act.
Such au interpretation needs only to be mentioned to be
rejected. 'We.refer to it only to show,that a right, construction must'be sought through larger and less technical views.'
We may, then, safely decline either to limit the word debts
to existing dues, or to extend its *mettning so as to embrace
all dues of whateer origin and description.
What then is its true sense? The most obvious,, and, as
it seems to.us, themost rational' answer to this question isi
that Congress must have had in contemplation debts origi
nating in contract or demands carried into judgment, and
only debts of this character. This is the com'monest and
most natura[ use of the word, Some strain is felt iipon the.
understanding when an attempt is made to extend it so, as
to include taxes imposed by legislative authority, and there
should be no such strain in the interpretation of a law like
tWis.
We are the more ready to adopt this view,.'because the
* 1 Story onl the Constitution, 689, J 921.

80

LANE 'CoUNTY V. OREGON.

[Sup. ('t.

Opinion of the court.

greatest of English elementary writers upon law, when treating of debts in their various descriptions, gives no hint that
taxes come within either;* while American State courts,
of the highest authority, have refused to treat liabilities for
taxes as debts, in the ordinary sense of that word, for which
actions of debt may be maintained.
The first of these cases'was that of Pierce v. The City of
Boston,t 1842, in which the defendant attempted to set off
against a demand of the plaintiff certain taxes due to the city.
The statute allowed mutual debts to be set off, but the court
disallowed the right to set off taxes. This case went, indeed,
upon the construction of the statute of Massachusetts, and
did not turn on the precise point before us; but the language of the court shows that taxes were not regarded as
debts within the common understanding of the word.
The second case was that of Shaw v. Picketl,t in which the
Supreme Court of Vermont said, "The assessment of taxes
does not create a debt that can be enforced by suit, or upon
which a promise to pay interest can be implied. It is a proceeding in invitum."
The next case was that of the City of Camden v. Allen,ยง
1857. That was an action of debt brought to recover a tax
by the municipality to which it was due. The language of
the Supreme C6Urt of New Jersey was still more explicit:
A tax, in its essential characteristics," said the court, "is
not a debt nor ifi the nature of a debt. A tax is an impost
levied by authority of government upon its citizens, or subjects, for the upport of the State. It is not founded on contract or agreement. It operates in invitum. A debt is a sum
of money due by certain and express agreement. It originates in and is founded upon contracts express or implied."
These decisions were all made before the acts of 1862
were passed, and they may have had some influence upon
the choice of the words used. Be this as it may, we all think
that the interpretation which they sanction is well warranted.
1 Blaclcstone's Comm. 475, 6
- 26 Vermont, 486.

t 3 Metcalf, 520.
2 Dutcher, 398.

Dec. 1868.]

868.]COUNTY V. OREGON.
Dec.
LANE
Opinion of the court.

We cannot attribute td the legislature an intent to include
taxes under the term debts without, something more than
appears in. the acts to show that intention.
The Supreme Court of California, in 1862, had the construction of these acts under consideration in the case of
Perry v. Washburn.* The decisions which we have cited
were refeired to by Chief Justice Field, now holding a seat
on this bench, and the very question we are now considering, "What did Congress intend by the at?" was answered
in these words: "Upon this question we are clear that it
only intended by the terms debts, public and private, such
obligations for the paymont of money as are founded upon
contract."
In whatever light, therefore, we, consider this question,
whether in the light of the conflict between the legislation
of Congress and the taxing power of the States, to which the
interpretation;insisted on"in behalf of the County of Lane,'
would give occasion, or in the light of the language of the
acts themselves, or in the light of the decisions to Wihich
we have referred, we lind-ourselves brought to the same conclusion, that the clause making the United States notes a
legal 'tender for debts has no reference to taxes impoged by
State authority, but relates only to debts in, the ordinary
sense of the word, arising out of simple contracts or contracts by specialty, which include jddgments and recognizances.t
Whether the word debts, as used in the act, includes obligations expressly made payable, or adjudged. to be paid in
coin, has beenargued in another case. Wo express at pres_
ent, no opinion on that question.$
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon must be
AFFIRMED.
t 1 Parsons on Contracts, 7.
20 California, 350.
$ See infra, pp. 229, 258, Bronson t. Rodes, and Butler v. Horwitz
*

1OL. Vn.

