AURORA CITY V. WEST.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

AURORA CITY V. WESr.

1. In a case having long and complicated pleadings, where a second count

2
8.
4.

5.

of a declaration has been left by the witfidrawal of a plea without an
answer, .so that judgment might have been had on it by nil dicit, a
superior court will not, on error, infer, as of necessity, that a judgment
below far the plaintiff was thus given ; the case being one where, aftr
such withdrawal, there were numerous demurrers, pleas, replications,
and rejoinder, arising from a first count, and the proceedings showing
that these were the subject of controversy. The second count will be
takerf to be waived.
A reversal in a court of last resort, remandinga ca.7e, cannot be set up as
a bar to a judgmeni in an inferior court on the same case.
The 1-ule that judgment will be given against the party who commits the
first fault ifi
pleading, does not apply to faults of mere form.
The plea of resjudicata applies to every objection urged in a second suit,
when the same objection was open to the party within the legitimate
scope of the pleadings in a former one, and might have been presented
in it.
Interest warrants or coupons, in a negotiable form, draw interest after
payment of them is unjustly neglected or refused.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Indiana; the case being
this:
The charter of the city of Aurora authorized its council,
whenever a majority ofits qualified voters required it, to take
stock in any chartered company for making "roads" to that
ity, and to make and sell their bonds to pay for it. With
this power the city, in 1852, issued $50,000 of bonds to the
Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company; a company whose
charter authorized it to survey, locate, and construct a rail'road "on the most direct and prabticable route" between
Lawrenceburg on the Ohio and Vincennes on the Wabash.
The bonds recited that they were issued in payment of a subscription to stock in the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad
Company, made by the city by order of the common council, in pursuance of its charter.
The bonhds' all passed from the company to West & Torrence, and the interest, due January 1st, 1856, not being
paid, these persons brought suit on them at May Term, 1856,
in the Dearborn County Court of Indiana, for payment.

Dec. 1868.]

AIoRK O~it

v. WEST.

Statement of the case.

The declaration alleged that the city, under the authQrity.of
its charter, subscribed .for $50,000 of the stock of the com-pany; that the company was chartered to construct, and was
then constructing, a railr6ad to the said city; that a majority of the qualified voters had assented to the, subscription; that the city issued and sold the bonds to raise the funds
to. pay for the st6ck, and that-the plaintiffs purchasedthem.
The city pleaded: 1. That the location of the railroad was
not established through the city till after the subsdription.
2. That the company was not chartered to construct, and'was
not, at the date of the subscription, constructing. a railroad

to the city.
To the first plea the plaintiffs demurred, and the de-'
murrer vas sustained;, and to the second they replied, that
the company located their railroad through the city beforei
the bonds were deliveied.
The defendants demuried to the replication, but thecourt
overruled the demurrer.,
The concluding'statement of the "record was that "the
,said city, not desiring to controvert the facts stated in 'said
rpply, but admitting the same," judgment was renderekl foz
the plaintiffs.
Other sets of coupons subsequently falling- due, West &
Torrence, at May Term, 1861, brought suit on them in the
same Dearborn Court, on pleadings much the. shme as the
other, -and obtained-judgment again'st the city. This juidgment was reversed for error, in the Supreme Court of In-.
diana, and ,the cause remanded.
Subsequent sets of coupons being Unpaid; West& Torrence
brought suit on them in thd Circuit Court of the United States
for Indiana.
The declaratibn in this third suit recited, "for that
whereas" the city, by virtue of power given in its charter,
had lawfully, and in due form, "and for a valuable.consideration," executed and issued the bonds and that the plaintiffs,
"for a valuable eon-iderationhad become the logal holders; and
owners, and bearers" of them, and the city hd refused to
pay a right of'action had accrued. The city demurred, as.

84

AURORA UT' V. WEST.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
I

signing for cause, that the declaration did not allege that
the bonds were issued in pursuance of such a vote of the inhabitants of the city as the charter required.
The court overruled the demurrer and gave judgment
against the city.
A yet still additional series of coupons falling due, West
& Torrence brought the-suit which was now here by error.
The declaration contained a special count (much as in the
preceding cases), and the common counts. Separate demurrers were filed to the respective- counts, but were overruled and withdrawn. The general issue, called in the record
the first plea, was also pleaded and subsequently withdrawn;
the second count being then left without answer.
Seven special pleas, numbered from two to eight, inclusive, were pleaded to the special count.
The 2d alleged that the bonds were issued without any good
or ,valuable consideration.
The 8d, that they were void, because the company was
not chartered to construct a railroad to the city.
The 4th, because a majority of the qualified voters of the
city had not signified their assent, &c.
The 5th, because the railroad company was not chartered
to make a road to the city.
The 6th, because the subscription was made and the bonds
issued before the road was located to the city, and before the
rairoad company had'resolved to make such location.
The 7th, because the stock, before its issue to the defendants, became wholly worthless through the mismanagement
of the directors.
The 8th, because the proper officers of the city never sold
and delivered the bonds as required by law, and the company
obtained them without sucn sale and without authority.
Notice to the pilaintifS was alleged of all these facts.
Of replications not withdrawn, the first, which was to the
second plea, set up the judgment, May Term, 1856, of the
Court for Dearborn County.
The 2d was to all the pleas except the 1st, and set up the
judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States.

Dec. 1868.]

AuRORA CITY V.- WEST.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The 5th was to thbe 3d,4th,.5th; 6th, 7th, and 8th pleas; and
also Aet up the judgment in the Court of Dearborn County,
as described in the first replication.
"The 6th was to the 4th plea, and set up the same judg.
ment.
'The 8th was also to the 4th plea, and set up that the defendants were estopped by the recital in the bonds from denying that a majority of the qualified voters of the city had
assented'to the subscription.
The 10th was to the Sd,'5th, and 6th pleas, and set up
certain proceedings of the city council, therein recited, as
an answer to the said several pleas.
. The city demurred specially to each of the
replications;but the court overruled the demurrer, and the defendants
filid a rejoihder to the 2d replication, the rejoinder being
the judgment re'covered in the Court of Dearborn County,
at May Term, 1861, and that the Supreme Court of the
State, on appeal, had reversed it for error, and remanded
the cause.
The rejoinder by agreement, was to be regarded as pleaded
to all the replications adjudged good except the 10th.
The rejoinder being held -bad on, demurrer the parties
waived a jury, and submitted the cause to the court for the.
assessment of damages, and the court, • having/heard the
evidence, gave judgment for the plaintifi. Upon which the
defendants took a bill of exceptions.
Mr. Lincoln, for the City, plaintiffin. error:
1. The plaintiffs seek to set up the judgments, in the
Dearborn County'Court, as an estoppel; but the Supreme
Court of Indiapa, having sustained the defences in this suit,
between these parties, the plaintiffs below cannot so use that
case. We have an estoppel against an estoppel. This opensthe whole matter, and sets it at large.
Independently of this, the replications are so manifestly
irregu]al that, as being the first fault in the pleading, we are
entitled to judgment.
2. But vithout pressing these techni'al matters, the second
-

86

AuXLoRA CITY V. WEST.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the defendant in error.

plea distinctly avers that the bonds were issued without any
consideration, and that this fact was known to the plaintiffs
when they received them. Now certainly, neither in the
De.arborii County Court case, nor in that in the Federal
court ill Indiana, was the bonafides of the bonds put in issue,
von tested, and determined. Both cases went off upon demurrer.
The whole history is matter of record; and an examination
of the records, and a comparison of them with the record
in this suit, will show that this ii as we here assert. The
demurrer did not cover all the facts involved in this suit.
A recital is not an averment or allegation. Now the plea
of res judicatais a plea of estoppel, and requires the highest
degree of certainty. It cannot be aided by inference. It
holds good onlyin those cases where the identical point in
dispute, in the case wherein it is pleaded, was put in issue,
contested, and determined upon in the former suit.
It may be stated as a matter of fact, that the want of bona
fides in the issue was not known to the city until lately. It
neither was nor could have been put in issue.
3. The coupons having been themselves for interest ought
not to bear interest; the compounding of interest as against
a debtor not being favored.
Mr. Stanbery, -whofiled a brief for Mr. Mitchell, contra:
1. There is nothing to show that the judgment below was
not rendered on the second count. To it'there was no plea;
aud a demurrer had been withdrawn. Certainly judgment
might have been rendered by il dieit.
2. The Supreme Court of Indiana "remanded" the cause
for further proceedings. The case, as an estoppel against an
estoppel, thus comes to nothing.
8. The want of bona fides, now rested on, was, if existing
in fact, a matter connected with the very origin of these
things. It might, and, if meant to be relied on at all, ought
to have been pleaded in the earlier suits. A party having
divers defences to the same instruments has no right to
present but one at a time, take his chance on trial with that
one, and, if he fail on that trial, bring up his reserves, sin-

Dec. 1868.]

AUROrA

iTY v. WEsT.

Opinion of the court.

gulatin, in this way.. If that were allowable, a party might
The rule may be differbnt in
keep his case open foreve.
regard to a defence occurring since the last trial, or as to one
of which the defendaiit could not possibly have 'then had
knowledge. Nothing of that sort appears, or can be now
asserted here. The case is On pleadings.
But we think that the bona fides of the issue of thd bonds
was involved in the former suits. The declaration in one
'of them recites expressly "the valuable consideration" 'in
the case. Indeed, it was~essential under any circumstances
to prove that the city did execute and deliver the bonds for
a valuable consideration. The plaintiffs could not have got
,along otherwise. This is sufficient' and the fact of consider-.
ation must be therefore taken to be established' by the judg"
ments.
.4.,The interest on the coupons was rightly giveri; interest
being, properly enough given, on a debt due; demanded, and'
withheld.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
rifty bonds, of one tlibusahd dollars each, were issued by
the corporation defendants on the first day ofJanuary,,185'2,
in payment of a subscription of fifty thousand dollars, previously niade by .the order of .the common council of the
.city, to the capital stock of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company. ,-Authority to subscribe for such stock,, and
to issue such bonds,. under the conditions th6rein specified,
is conferred-upon the corporation by the eighteenth s~ction
of their -charter.' Shid bonds were negotiable, and were
made payable in twenty-five years from date, with interest
at six per cent. per annum. Interest warrants, or coupons,
were attached to.the severil bonids, for the payrient of each
yr's interest, till the principal of the bonds should fall due..
Plaintiffs became the holders for value of all of the bonds,;
together with the coupons thereto attached, and the defendnts having neglected and refused to pay the interest foi, the
three years sp6-ified in the record, the plaintiffs broughtan.

AURORA CITY V.

WEST.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court

action of assumpsit, to recover the amount of the unpaid
interest, as represented in the respective coupons for those
years. Their claim was set forth in the declaration in a
special count, alleging the substance of the facts as above
stated, and the declaration also contained a second count for
goods sold and delivered, which also embraced the common
counts. Separate demurrers were filed to the respective
counts, but they were overruled by the court, and were
afterwards withdrawn by the defendants. They also pleaded
the general issue, called, in the record, the first plea, Which
was subsequently withdrawn.
Seven special pleas, numbered from two to eight, inclusive, were also filed by the defendants to the special count,
but the withdrawal of the general issue left the second count
without any answer.
Second plea alleged that the bonds and coupons described
in the special count, were issued without any good or valuable consideration.
Third plea alleged that the corporation was not authorized
to issue the bonds to the railroad company, because the
company was not chartered to construct a railroad to the
city.
Fourth plea alleged that a majority ot the qualified voters
of the city did not, at an annual election, signify their assmt
to the making of the subscription to the stock, as required
by law.
Fifth plea alleged that the bonds and coupons were null
and void, because the railroad company was not a company
chartered to make a road to said city.
Sixth plea alleged that the bonds and coupons were null
and void, because the subscription to the stock was made,
and the bonds and coupons were issued, before the road was
located to the city, and before the railroad company had detcrmined to make the location.
Seventh plea alleged that the bonds and coupons were null
and void, because the stock of the company, before it was
issued to the" defendtants, became of no value through the
misr.tauagement of the directors, and was wholly worthless.

'e.1868.]

6AUROIK- CITY 'V. WE§T.
Oinign of the court.

Eighth plea alleged that the bonds and coupons were null'
and void, because the proper officers of the'city never sold
'and delivered them, as required by law, but that the companyobtained the possession of the same without such sale,
and without authority.
Notice to the plaintiffs 6f the respective defences, so
pleaded, is alleged in each' of the several pleas'. Si4 only,
of the eighteen replications filed by the plaintiffs, remainto
be examined, as all the rest of the series were subsequently
withdrawn without objection, or were held to be bad on demurrer.
9]hose' not withdraw'n, are the first, second, fifth, sixth,
eighth, and tenth of the series, as appears by a careful in7
spection of the transcript. Of these, the first was to the
second' plea, and set ip a former judgment rendered in
favor of the plaintiffs, May Term, 1856, of the Circuit Court
for the County of Dearborn, in the State of Indiana, in:a certain action brought by the plaintiffs against the defendants,'
to recover the amount of the coupons attached to the same
fifty bonds, which fell due the first day of January next preceding the rendition of the judgment, and the plaintiffs prayed
judgmenf, if the def6ndants ought to be admitted to aver
against that record, that the bonds and coupons were issued
without any go6d or valuable consideration.
Second replication was to all the pleas, except the first,
and set up a forrhei judgment recovered by the plaintiffs,
-May Term; 1857, inthe Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Indiana, in an action of assumpsit, against
the defendants, for the amount of another set of the. coupons
attached to ihe same fifty bonds.
Fifth replication was to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, and eighth pleas; and -also .set up the judgment
recovered in the Circuit Court of Dearborn County, as described in the first replication, and substantially in the same
form.
Sixth replication was to the fourth plea only, and set up
the same judgmeint, and in the same form as pleaded in thb
fifth replication.

AURORA

CITY V.

WEST.

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Eighth replication was also to the fourth plea, and alleged
that the defendants were, estopped, by the recital in the
bonds, from denying that a majority of the qualified voters
of the city, at an annual election, signified their assent to the
subscriptib 1 .
Tenth replication was to the third, fifth, and sixth pleas,
and set up the proceedings of the city council therein recited, as an answer to the said several pleas.
Defendants demurred specially to each of the several replications, but the court overruled the respective demurrers,
and held that the several replications were sufficient.
Leave was granted to the defendants, at the same time, to
rejbin, and on a subsequent day they appeared and filed a
rejoinder to the second replication.
Parties also filed an agreement, at the same time, to the
effect that the rejoinder should be regarded as pleadpd to all
the replications adjudged good, except the tenth, which was
the second replication to the third, fifth, and sixth pleas.
Substance and effect of the matters alleged in the rejoinder were, that the plaintiffs recovered another judgment
against the defendants in the Circuit Court for said Dearborn County, in a suit founded on another and different set
of the coupons attached to the same fifty bonds, and that
the Supreme Court of the State, on appeal, reversed the
judgment for error, and remanded the cause for further proceedings.
Plaintiffs demurred to the rejoinder, and the court sustained the demurrer, and held that the rejoinder was bad.
Thereupon the parties waived a jury, and submitted the
cause to'the court for the assessment of damakes, and the
court, having heard all the evidence introduced by the parties, rendered judgment for the plaintiffs in the sum of ten
thousand five hundred and thirty-four dollars and fifty cents
damages, and costs of suit.
1. Judgment having been rendered for-the plaintiffs, the
defendants tendered a bill of exceptions, which was allowed
by the presiding justice, and signed and sealed. Statement
in the bill of exceptions is, that the parties submitted the

Dec, ,1868.1

A

ROAA OITY Ve WESi:

Opinion of the court.

'cause to the court tLpon the record and the evidence therein
set forth; but it is obvious-that, when it was submitted, tbera
was nothing left to be done excejt to compute thedamages.
None of the pleadings terminated in issues of fact, except
such as had been withdrawn or waived' by one side or the
other.,and all the issues 'of law had been determined against
the defendants. Whdn the defendants withdirew the geperal
issue, and left the sec6nd coufitin the decloation without any
answer, the plaintiffs, as'upon nil diit,.might have moved for,
judgment for the want of a plea, but they did'nbt submit any
such motion, and 'both parties proceeded thereafter throughout the trial as if there was but one:cotint ii! the dclaration.*
Viewed in the light of the pr6ceediigs in the suit, subsequent to the wvithdrawil -of the general'issue, it, musf be
understood that the secon4 count was waived, as there is not.
a word in the re'cord to support the proposition assumed. by
the plaintiffs, that thajudginent was rendered on that count.
2. Every issue, of fact .having been withdrawn, and every
'issue of law in vhich the othe'r pl.eadings terminated haviin g,
been dedided in: favor of the plaintiffs, they were clearly entitled to' judgment onl the first count.. Irrespective, therefore, of the bill of exceptions, ,the writ of error. brings, here
for r'evie* the decisions of the court below, in overruling.
the demurrer of the defenidants to the tedth replication'of
the plaintiffs, and in gustaining the demurrer of the plaintiffs
to the rejoifider of the defendants as filed to the first, second,
fifth, sixth, and eighth replications of the plaintiffs.
Such being the state of the case the decisions of the court
below may be re-exhmined in this court without any bill of
,exceptions; as &le
questions are apparent in the record, aid
arike upon demurrers to material pleadings on which'the
cause depends.t
* Hogan v. Ross, 13 Howard, 173;' 1 Chittys Archbold's Practice (lth
ed.), 288; 1 Tidd's Practice, ed. 1856, 663; Stephen on Pleading, 108; 'Bisbing'v. All~ertson, 6 Watts & Sergeahi, 450; Cross v. Watson, 6 Blackford, 130.
t .Suydam v. Williamson et al., 20 Howard, 436; Gorman: et al. v., Lenor ,
Ui Peters, 115.

AURORA CITY V. WEST

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

3. Examination of the questions growing out of the decision of the court below in sustaining the demurrer-to the
defendants' rejoinder will first be made, because if the objections taken to that decision are overruled, the questions
involved in the other decision will be of no impoftance, as
the plaintiffs in any event must prevail, and the judgment
of the Circuit Court must be affirmed. They must prevail in
that event, because the several replications to which that rejoinder was filed, as extended and applied by the agreement
of the parties, furnish a complete answer to all the special
pleas of the defendants.
Before proceeding to consider the questions growing out
of that decision of the court below, it should be remembered
that the defendants, in filing the rejoinder, waived their demurrers to all the replications to which it was filed. Applied as it was by the agreement, to all the replications not
abandoned, except the tenth, it follows that all the demurrers except that Ailed to the tenth replication were waived.
Pleading over to a declaration adjudged good on demurrer is a waiver of the demurrer, and when a defendant files
a rejoinder to a replication, previously adjudged good on demurrer, his act in pleading over must for the same reason
be held to have the same effect.*
4. Extended argument to show that the matters alleged in
the rejoinder are not of a character to constitute a sufficient
answer to the several replications toiwhich it was filed is unnecesEary, as it is scarcely so contended by the defendants.
Undoubtedly the view of the pleader was to set up an estoppel against the matters pleaded by the plaintiffs in their
first, second, fifth, sixth, and eighth replications, and to claim
'the benefit of the rule that an estoppel against an estoppel
opens up the whole matter and sets it at large.; but the insuperable difficulty in the way of the attempt to apply that
rule, even supposing that the former judgments are pleaded
as technical estoppels, is that the matters pleaded in the reUnited States v. Boyd, 5 HowArd, 29; Jones v. Thompson, 6 Hill, 621
Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Wallace,42,

Dec., 1868.]

'AURA0A CITY V. WEST.
Opinion of the court.

joinder do not amount to an estoppel, as they merely show
that the judgment for the.pl:intif, as recovered in that case
in the court of original jurisdiction, was reversed in the appellate tribunal, and that the cause was remanded to the subordinate court for further proceedings. Second trials often
result in the same way as the first, and certainly the reversal
of the judgment under the circumstances shown in the allegations of the rejoinder is not conclusive evidence that the
plaintiffs may not ultimately reeover. Unless a final' judgment or decree is rendered in a suit the proceedings in the
same are nbver regirded. as a 'bar to & subsqquent action.
Consequently where the dction was discontinued, 'or the
plaintiff became nonsuit, or where from any other cause, except perhaps in the case of a retraxit, no judgment or decree
was rendered in the case, the proceedings are not conclusive.*
5. Suppose the rejoinder is bad, still the defendants contend that the replications to which it 'was filed, are also bad,
and that they are'entitled to judgment, as the first fault in
pleading was committed by the plaintiff. Doubts were en.tertained at first whether, inasmuch, as t e' demurrers were
abandoned, arter the replications had been adjudged *good,'
the point was ope, to the defendants'; but the better opinion
is, that the waiver 'f the demurrrs 'left the rights of the.parties in the same condition as tl'iey would have been if the de'murrers lad never been filed. Conceding that to be the rule,.
then it is clear that the defendants 'may go back and attack
the sufficiency of the replications, as it is the settled rule of
law in this court in respect to dendurrers, that althodigh the
pleadings demurred to may be bad, the court will nevertheless give judgment against tle 'party whose pleading was
first-defbetive in substance.t
Wood v. Jackson,-8 Wendell,"9 ;-Reed v. Looks and Canals, 8 Hioward,
274; :Rex v. St. Anne, 9 Q. B. 884; Greeley v. -Smith, 1 W. & M. 181;
Knox v. Waldoborough, 5 Maine, 185; Hull -. Blal]e, 13 Massachusetts, 155;
.Sweigart v. Berk,'8 Sergeant'& Rawle, 805 ].Bridge v. Sumner, 1 Pickering,
.371; 2 Taylor on Evidence, 1528;. Harvey v. Richaras, 2 Gallison, 231;
Ridgely v. Spencer, 2 Binney, 70.
t" Cooke v.,jrahaw, 3 Cranch, 229; Sprigg v. Bank of 'Mount Pleasant,
'10 Peters, 264- "UnitecdStates v. Arthur, 5 Cran-h, 261 ; Clearwater tp.Mere.

AURORA CITY v. WEST.

Lsup. (i't.

Opinion of the court.

Statement of the rule by Stephen is, that on demurrer to
the replication, if the court think the replication bad, but
perceive a substantial fault in the plea, they will give judgment, not for the defendant but for the plaintiff, provided
the declaration be good ; but if the declaration also be bad
in,substance, then upon the same principle judgment would
be given for the defendant.*
Apart, therefore, from their own demurrers, and solely
by yirtue of the plaintiffs' demurrer to their rejoinder, the
defendants may go back and attack the plaintiffs' replications, but they can do so only as to defects of substance, as
it is well settled that the rule applies only where the antecedent pleading is bad ir substance, and that it does not
extend to mere matters of form.t Mere formal objections, therefore, to the replications, will not be noticed, ag
such objections are not open under the pleadingsin this
record.
6. Four of the replications sqt up, the two former judgments, and as they involve the same questions, they will all
be considered together. Duly exemplified copies of those
judgments are exhibited in the transcript, and they are well
described in the replications. When the record of a former
judgment is set up as establishing some collateral fact involyed in a subsequent controversy, it must be pleaded
strictly as an estoppel, and the rule is, that such a pleading must be framed with great certainty, as it cannot be
aided by any intendment. Technical estoppels, as contended
by the defendants, nmst be pleaded with great strictness,
but when a former judgment is set up, in-bar of an action, or
as having determined the entire merits of the controversy,
it is not -required to be pleaded with any greater strictness
than any other plea in bar, or any plea in avoidance of the
dith, 1 Wallace, 38; 1 Ohitty's Pleadings, 668.; .Gorman v. Lenox, 15 Peters,
115.

Stephen on Pleading, 143;" Mercein v. Smith, 2 Hill, 1210 ; MatthewBon v. Weller et al., 3 Denid, 52; Townsend v. Jemison, 7 Howard 706.
t Tnbbs v. Caswell et al., 8 Wendell, 129;. Bushell v. Lechmore, 1 UA.
P-.ymond, 369.

Dec. 1868.]

AURORA CITY V. WEST.
Opinion of the cour"

maters.alieged in the antecedent pleading of the opposite
party.*
Same rule applies to a replication as to a' plea, as the
plaintiff bannot anticipate what the. defence -,ill be when he
frames his declaratibn. Cases arise, also, where" the record
of the former suit does not show the precise point which
was decided, in the former suit, or doed .not show it with
sufficient precision, and, also where the party, relying on the
former recovery, had no opportunity to plead it; -but it is
not necessary to consider those topics, as no such questions
are directly presented in this ease for decision.
Aside from all these questions, and'independ.nt oF .he
form of the replications, the defendants make two objec'ions
to the theory, that the former judgments, set up in this case,
are a conclusive answer to the respective defences pleaded
in their severl special pleas.
First. They contend that 'a judgment on demurrer is not
a bar'to a subsequent action between the same,partiesfor
the sftme causeof action, unless the record of the former action shows that the demurrer extended' to all the disputed
facts involved in the second suit,, nor unless the subsequent
suit presents substantially the same .questions as those determined in th6 former suit. Where the second suit presents no new question, they co ncede that 'the judgment in
the ormer suit, though rendered on demurrer, may be a bar
to the second suit, but they maintain that it can never be so
regarded, unldss all those cbnditions concur.
Secondly. They also deny that a forniet judgment is, in
any case, conclusive Qf any matter or thing involved in a
subsequent controversy, even between the same pafties for
the same cause of action, except as to the precise point or
points actually litigated 'and determined in the antecedent
trial; and they insist that none ofthe defences set up in their
several special pleas,were directly presented and detei'mined
iu,either"of the former suits, as supposed by the plaintiffs.
* Gray v. ]ingry, 17 Vermont, 419; Peorkins v.'Watker, 19 Id. 144
Greenleaf oA Pvidence, 12 ed. 666; Shelley v. Wright; Willes, -9.

1

AURORA CITY V. WEST.

[SpCt
[Sup. Ct.

Opinibn of the court.

7. Identity, of the parties, in the former suits, with the
parties in the suit at bar, is beyond question, and it cannot
be successfully denied that the cause of action, irf the former
suits, was the same as that in the pending action, within
the meaning of that requirement, as defined by decided cases
of the highest authority. Where the parties are the same,
the legal effect of'the former judgment as a bar is not impaired, because the subject-matter of the second suit is different, provided the second suit involves the same title, and
depends upon the same question.* Second suit for trespass
was held, in the case of Outram v. Jklorewood,t tq be barred
by the record of a former judgment, between the same parties, recovered long before the second trespass was committed, as it appeared that the same title. was involved in
both cases. Precisely the same rule was also laid down in
the cAse of Burt v. Sternburgh,j and the reason assigned in its
support was, that the plaintiffs' right of recovery, and the
defence set up in thesecond action, depbnded on the same
title as that involved in the former suit. So, where an importer and two sureties executed two.bonds for duties, and
the principal being insolvent, one of the sureties paid the
whole amount and brought a suit against the other surety
for contribution on the bond which first fell due, and was
4efeated, on a plea of release'by the obligee, with his own
consent, the j udgmeqt was held in a subsequent suit for contribuon for the amount paid on the other bond, to be a conclusive bar to the second claim, it appearing that both bonds
were given at the same time, upon the same consideration,
and as parts of one, ana the same transaction.§
Different bonds, it will be noticed, were described in the
two declarations, but the decision of the court was placed
upon the ground, that the-cases were precisely alike, as to
the right of the plaintif to demand, and the duty of the
defendant, as a co-surety, to, make contribution. Nothing
is bepter settled, say the ,court, than that, the judgmient of a
* Doty v. Brown, 4 Comstock, 71.

J 4 Cowen, 559.

t 8 East, 346.
Bouchauw v.Dias, 3 Denio, 24.

Dec. 1868.]

Dec.
AROA
868.] CITY V. WEST.
Opinion of the court.

court of concurrent jurisdiction, directly upon the point made
in the suit, is con~iclusive between the same parties, upon the
same subject-matter, and they referred to the case of Gatdmr v. Buckbee,* as directly in point, and there can be no
doubt that it is entirely analogous.
Substance of the material facts in that case was, that two
_notes ha& previously beei given by the defendant for the
purchase-money of a vessel, which he refused to pay; and, in
the suit on the first note the defence was, that*it had been
obtained by fraud, and the judgment wasfor the defendant;
and in a subsequent suit on the other note, that judgtaent
was held to be conclusive as to the question of fraud.
Weighed in .th6 light of those decisions, it is quite clear
that the cause of action, in the legAl sense, is the same in the
.case at bar as that in the respective former judgments set up
in the four replications under consideration.
In the suit determined in the State court, the declaration
alleged to the effect that the defeud'ants, under the'authority.
conferred on the corporation by virtue of their charter, sub-,
scribed for fifty thousand dollars of thd stock of the railroad
company; that the company was ch{rtered to construct,'and
was then constructing h railroad to said city; thht a inajority of the qualified voters of the city signified their assent
to the'subscription by' expressing on their ticketS, at an' annual election in said city, that they were in, favor of the same;
that the defendants issued and sold the bonds to raise the
funds to pay for the stock, and that the plaintiffs purchased
the bonds 'and becamae the holders of the same and of the
coupons thereto attached.'
Defendants demurred to the declaration, but the cout
overruled the demurrer, and they subsequently, filed an' answer, setting up two defences: 1. That the location of the
railroad was not established through the city till afterthe
subscription. 2. That the company was not chartered to
construct, and was not; at the date of' the subscription, con"
structing a railroad to the city..
* 3.Cowen, 120.

VOL. VIX.

7

.

-

ALRORA CITY V.

WEST.

[SuD. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Plaintis demurred to the first answer, and the demurrer
was sustained by the court; and to the second defence they
replied that the company located their railroad through the
city before the bonds were- delivered, and the defendants
demurred to the replication, but the-court overruled the
demurrer.
Concluding statement of the record is, that "the said city,
not desiring to controvert the facts stated in said reply, but
admitting the same," judgment is rendered for the plaintiffs.
Second judgment set up in the replications, was rendered
in The Circuit Court of the United States, in a suit on another
set of the coupons attached to the same fifty bonds, atid the
declaration alleged that the defendants, by virtue, of the
ppwer conferred in their charter, "did lawfully and in due
form execute and issue the bonds under the seal of the corporation, and that the plaintiffs, for a valuable consideration,
became the legal holders and bearers of the same, and of the
coupons thereto attached.
Special demurrer to the declaration was filed by the defendants, and they showed for cause, among other things,
that it did not allege that the bonds were issued in pursuance of such a vote of the inhabitants of the city as the
charter required. Both parties were heard, and the court
overruled the demurrer and gave judgment against the defendants for the amount of the coupons, with interest. Inspection of those records, therefore, shows that the several
questions involved in the present suit, as to the validity of
the bonds, the time and place of the location of'the railroad,
and the alleged failure to secure the antecedent assent of a
majority of the qualified voters of the city, were all put in
issue in those cases. They were not only put in issue but
they were determined, unless it be denied that the effect of,
a, demurrer to ihe declaration or other pleading, is that it
admits all such matters of fact as are sufficiently pleaded.
Such a'denial, if made, would be entitled to no weigit, as it
is a rule universally acknowledged.*
1 Williams's Saunders, 337, n. 3; Stephen on Pleading, 156; 1 Saunders
on Pleading and Evidence, 952; 1 Chitty's Pleading, 662.

Dec. 1868.]

AuRORA CITY V. WEST.
Opinion of the court.

Foundation of the rule is that the party demurring, having
had his option to plead or demur, shall be'taken, in adopting the latter alternative, to admit that he has no ground for
,denial or traverse.*
On the overruling bf a demurrer, the general rule is that
.judgment for the plaintiff is final if the merits are involved,
but a judgment that a declaration is bad, cannot be pleaded
as a bar to a good declaration for the same cause of action,
because such a judgment is in no just sense a judgment upon
the merits.t Other'exceptional cases might be named, but
it'is unnecessary, as none of them can have any bearing on
this case.1
Taken as a whole, the pleadings of the defendants in the
respective cases amounted to a demurrer to the respective
declarations, and the substantial import of the decision of
-the court in each case, was that the 'declaration was sufficient
-to entitle the plainti'ffs to judgment. Beyond questioni they
were judgments' on the mherits, although rendered on d-.
murrer; and in such case the well-settled rule is that every
material matter of fact sufficiently pleaded is admitted.
Since the resolution in Ferrer'sCase,§ the general principle
'has always. been conceded, that when one is barred in any
action, real or personal, by judgment on demurrer, confession,, or verdict, he is barred as to that or the like action of
the like nature for the sarpb thing forever.
Objection was taken in the case of Bouclhaud v. Dias,I that
the former judgment.between the parties could not be a bar
to the subsequent action, because it was rendered on demurrer to the defendant's plea, but the court held that it
made no difference in principle whether the facts upon which
the court proceeded were, proved by competent evidence, or
whether they were admitted by the parties; and they aLlso
neld that an admission, by way of demurrer to a pleading,
in which the facts are alleged, must be just as available to
Manchester Bank v. Burkner, 20 Hroward, 303.

j- Gilman v. Rives, 10 Peter , 298.
1 Richardson o. Boston, 24 Howard, 188.
J 6 Rdeports, 7.
113 Denio, 244.

AtRORA .CITY V.

WEST.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

the opposite party as though the admission had been made
ore tenus before a jury.*
Reference to cases decided in other jurisdictions, however,
is unnecessary, as this court decided, in the case of Clearwater v. Mereditht that on demurrer to any of the pleadings
which are in bar of the action, the judgment for either
party is the same as it would have been on an issue of fact
joined upon the same pleading, and found in favor of the
same party.t
Defence of a former judgment rendered upon general demurrer to the declaration was also set up in the case of
Goodrich v. The City,§ and this court held that it was a good
answer to the suit, although the appellant insisted that it
was not, because the judgment was rendered on demurrer.
8. Unsupported as the second proposition of the defendAnts is, as to the theory of fact on which it is based, it will
not require any extended consideration. Much doubt and
perhaps uncertainty 'exist in judicial decisions as to the limits, in certain cases, within which the conclusive effect of a
judgment is confined by law as expressed in the maxim,
A/emo debet bis vexaripro una et eadum causa, and also as to the
manner in which the former judgment in that class of cases
should be taken advantage of by the party.11
But it is believed that the case at bar may be decided
without encountering any of those conflicting opinions, as
they occur chiefly where the party claiming the benefit of
the former judgment failed to plead it at the first opportunity, or where no such opportunity was presented, and it
was introduced-under the general issue. Decisions made in
such cases were cited at the argument, but they afford very
little aid in the solution of any question arising in this record.
Remark' should also be made, that the several replications
* Perkins V. Moore, 16 Alabama, 17

Robinson v. Howard, 5 California,

d28
t

1 Wallace, 43.

T Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wallace, 303; Nowlan%v. Geddes, 1 East, 634.
5 Wallace, 573.

il Broom's Maxims (4th ed.), 321; Sparry's Case, 5 Reports, 61.

* Dec. 1868.]

AURORA"CITY V. WEST:

101

Opinion bf the court.

set up the former judgments, not merely as settling some
collateral fact involved in the case, but as having determined
the entire merits of the controversy involved in the pleadings.*

Such a case falls directly within the rule that the judgment
of a court of concurrent jurisdiction, or one in the same court
directly on the point, is, as a plea, a bar, and conclusive between the samd parties upon 'the same matter directly in
question. iha subsequent action4t
When not pleaded, but introduced as evidence under the
general issue, the judgment, it was said in that case, was
equally conclusive between the parties; but that point will
not *lie considered in this case, as it is in no manner involved
in the pleadings. Express determination bf the court, also,
Morewood,$ was, that the rule that a
in the case of Outram .v.
recovery in one action is a bar to another, is not confined to
personal actions alone, but that it extends to all actions, real
as -well as personal.
Repeated decisions established the rule, in the early history. of the common law, that where a judgment was rendered on the merits it barred -all other personal suits, except
such as were of a higher nature, for the same caus6 of action.§
Judgment in a writ of entry is not a bar to a writ of right;
but the meaning of-the rule is, that each species of judgment is equally conclusive upon its own subject-matters by
way of bar to future litigation for the thing thereby decided.
Hence, the verdict of a jury, followed by a judgment or a
decree in chancery, as held by this court, puts an end. to all
further controversy between the parties to such suit, and 'it
has already appeared that, a judgment for either party ondemurrer to a pleading involving the merits, is the same as
iAwould have been on an issue in fact, joined upon the same
pleading, and found in favor of the same'party.11
* Stafford v. Clark, 2 Bingham, 377.

. Hex v. Duchess of Kingston, 20 State Trials, 538.
J 3 East, 357.
Hutchin v.Campbell, 2 W. Blackstone, 831.
Hopkins v.Lee, 6 Wheaton, 113; Lawrence v. Hunt, 10 Wendell, 83;
Wood v.Jackson, 8 Id.'9; Young -. Black, 7 Cranch, 565.

AURORA CITY V. WEST.

[Sup Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Determination of this court, in the case of Aspden v. Nixon,*
was that a judgment or decree, in order that it may be set
up as a bar, must have been rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction upon the same subject-matter, between
the same parties, and for the same purpose; and in the case
of Packet Go..v. Sickles,t the decision was, that "the essential
conditions under which the exception of the res judicata becomes applicable are the identity of the thing demanded,
the identity of the cause of the demand, and of the parties
in the character in which they are litigants." Attempt was
made in that case, as in this, to maintain that the judgment
in the first suit could not be held to be an estoppel, unless
it was shown by the record that the very poiit in controversy wag distinctly presented by an issue, and that it was
explicitly found by the jury; but the court held otherwise,
and distinctly overruled that proposition, although the defence of estoppel failed for other reasons.
Courts of justice, in stating the rule, do not always employ
the same language; but where every objection urged in the
second suit was open to the party within the legitimate scope
of the pleadings in the first suit, and might h1ave been presented in that trial, the matter must be considered as having
passed in remjudicatan, and the former judgment in such a
case is conclusive between the parties.1
Except in special cases, the plea of resjudicata,says Taylor,
applies not only to points upon which the court was actually
required to form an opinion and pr6nounce judgment, but
to every point which properly belonged to the subject of
litigation, and which the parties, exercising reasonable, diligence, might have brought forward at the time.§
Substantially the same rule was laid down in the case of
Otitram v. Morewood,II in which the court said'that "a recovery in one suit upon issue joined on, matter of title, is"
4 Howard, 467.
t 24 Id. 341.
Greathead v. Bromley, 7 Term, 455; .Broom's Legal Maxims (4th ed.),
824.
2"Taylor's Evidence,
3 East, 346.

1513; Henderson v. Henderson, 3 Hare, 115.

. Dec. 1868.]

AURORA CITY V. WEST.
Opinion of the court.

equally conclusive upon the subject-matter of such title" -il
any subsequent action, as an estoppel.
Better opinion is, that the estoppel, where the judgment
was rendered upon the merits, whether on demurrer, agreed
statement, or verdict, extends to every material allegation
or statement which, having been made-on one side and denied on the other, was at issue in the cause, and was determined in the course of the proceedings.*
The allegation in the case' of 1icardo v. -arcias,t was,
that the matters in issue on the sedond suit were the same,
and not in any respet different from the.matters in issue ino
the former suit, and the House of Lords held that the plea
was sufficient-evidently deciding that nothing was open inl
the second suit which was within the scope of the issue in
the fotmer trial.1 Pr~porly construed, the opin'ion ofthis
coui't on. this point in the case of the Packet Comp ny v. Sickles,§ is to the same effect, as plainly appears in that part of'
it in'which the court say that if the record of the former
trial shows that the verdict could not "have been rendered
without deciding the particular matter in question, it will
be considered as having settled that matter as to all futtre
actious between the parties. Applying that rule to the case
at bar it is clear that ajudgment rendered on demurrer settles
every matter which was well alleged in the pleadings of the
opposite party.
9. Separate examination of the authorities cited by tlie
defendants, in view of their number, is impracticable,'but
it will appear, if thay are caiefully read and rightly applied,
that they do not support the proposition under consideration.
On the contrary; the decisidn of the court in the cage of
Gilbert v. Thompson,I is that a judgment in a foimer action
is conclusive where the same cause of action was adjudicated be-.
tween the same parties, or the same point was put inissue on
the record and difectly found by the verdict of a jury';'and'
the case of Merriam v. Whittemore et al., is precisely to the
2 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th ed. 787.
J Stevens v. Htfghds, 7 Casey, 381.
fl 9 Cunhing, 348.

t 12 Clark and tFinelly, 400.
'5 Wallace, 592.
j 6 Gray, 316.

104-

AURORA. CITY V. WEST.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

same effect. Unguarded expressions are found in theopini6ns
in the case of Carter v. James,* but the decision turned upon.
the point that the cause of action was not the same in the
pending suit as that litigated in the former action. For
these reasons our conclusion is that the decision of the Circuit Court in sustaining the demurrer of the plaintiffs to the
rejoinder of the defendants was correct, and that the plaintiffs were thereupon entitled to judgment.
10. In such cases, where the sum for which judgment
should be rendered is uncertain, the rule in the Federal
courts is that the dainges shall, if either of the parties request it, be assessed by a jury.t
But if the sum for which judgment should be rendered is
certain, as where the suit is upon a bill of exchange or promissory note, the computation may be made by the court, or
what is more usual, by the clerk; and the same course may
be pursued even when the sum -for which judgment should
be rendered is uncertain if neither party request the court
to call a jury for that purpose. Common law rules were
substantially the same, except that "the court themselves
,might, in a large class of cases, if they pleased, assess the
damages, and thereupon give final judgment."I
Evidently a jury in this case was not necessary, but it was
not error to hear proofs under the submission, as both parties assented to the course pursued.
Exceptions were'taken to the ruling of the court in allowing interest upon the coupons, and the bill of exceptions
states that the exception of the defendants was allowed, but
it does not state what amotint of interest was included in the
judgment, nor give the basis on which it was computed.
Judging from the amount of the sum fbund due, it is, perhaps,
a necessary inference that interest was allowed on each coupon from the time it fell due to the date of the judgment,
and if so, the finding was correct.
13 Meeson & Welsby, 137.
t 1 Stat. at Large, 87, 26; Renner et al. v. Marshall, 1 Wheaton, 218;
Mayhew v. Thatcher, 6 Id. 129.
2 aunders on Pleading and Evidqnce,218; 2 Archbold's Practice, 709.

' Dec. 1868.]

AURORA CITY' V.WEST.
Opinion of Miller J., dissenting.

Bonds and coupons like these, by universal usage and
consent, have all the qualities of commercial paper.* Coupons are written contracts for the payment of a definite sum
of money, on a given day, and being drawn and executed in'
'a form and mode tfor the very purpose that they may be
separated from the bonds, it is held that they are iiegotiable,
and that a suit may be maintained on the ia without the necessity of producing the bonds to which they were attached.t
Interest, as a general rule, is ,due on a debt from the time.
that payment is unjustly refused, but a demand is not necessary on a bill or note payable on a given day.1 Being
written contracts for the payment of money, and negotiable
because payable to bearer and passing from hand to hand,'
as oth6r negotiable instruments,.it is quite apparent on. general principles that they should, draw interest after 'payment
of the principal is unjustly neglected or refused.§ Where
there is a contract to pay money on a day fixed, 'and the
contract is broken, interest, aq a general rule, is allowed- and'
that rule is universal in respect to bills and notes-payable on
time.II Governed by that rule this court in the case 6f
Gelpcke v. Dubuque, held thai the plaintiff, in'a case entirely
analogous, was entitled to recover interest.**
Nicessity for remark upon the other exceptionb is superseded by what has already been said in respect to the plaintiff's demurrer.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

Mr. JusticeMILLER, dissenting.
The doctrine of estoppel by a former judgment between
the same parties is one of the most beneficial principles of.
our jurisprudence, and has been less affected by legislation
Mercer v. Hacket, 1 Wallace, 83; Meyer v. Muscatine, Ib. 384.
M
tj Knox Company v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, '544; White v. Railroad, 21
Howard, 575; McCoy v. County of Washington, 7 American Law Register,
193; Parsons on Bills and -Notes, 115.
I Vose v. Philbrook, 3 Story, 336; Hollingsworth -. Detroit, 3 McI can,
472.
Delafleld v. Illinois, 2 Hill,'177; Williams -v.Sherman, 7 Wendell. 112.
2 Parsons orkBills dnd Notes, 393.
1 Wallace, 206. "
ThcmEosv. tee County, S Wallace, 332.

A&UHORA

CITY, V. WEST.

[Stip. Ct.

Opinion of Miller J., dissenting.

than almost any other. But its effect is to prevent any further inquiry into the merits of the controversy. Hence, with
all the salutary influence which it exerts in giving permanence to established rights, in putting an end to angry contests, and preserving tranquillity in society, it can only be
justified on the ground that the precise point, either of law
or of fact, which is presented in the suit where the estoppel
is pleaded, had been, previously decided between the same
parties or their privies, by a court of competent jurisdiction.
The principle is equally available and potent whether it is
set up by a defendant as an answer to a cause of action, or
by a plaintiffto prevent the same defence being used in the
second suit that was decided against in the first. In the
former case, it muist appear that the cause of action in the
second suit was the same that it was in the first suit, or depended on precisely the same facts. In the latter case it must
appear that the defence set up in the second suit was the same
defence, or in other words, consisted of the same facts or points
of law as that which was passed upon ini
the first suit.
It is true that some of the earlier cases speak as if everything which might have been decided in the first suit must
be considered concluded by that suit. But this is not the
doctrine of the courts of the present day, apd no court has
given more emphatic expression to the mddern rule than
this. That rule is, that when a former judgment is relied
on, it must appear from the record that the point in controversy was necessarily decided in the formev suit, or be made
to appear by extrinsic proof that it was in fact decided. This
is expressly ruled no less than three times within the last
eight years by this court, to wit: in the Sleam Packet Co. v.
Swkles,* Same v. Same,t Miles v. Caldwell.t The piinciple
asserted in these decisions is supported by an array of authority which I will not stop to insert here, but which may
be'found well digested andarranged in the notes of Hare
and Wallace.to the Duchess of Kingston's Gzse.§
The opinion just read asserts a different rule, and insists
t 5 Wallace, 580.
j 2 Id. 35.
2 Smith's Leading Cases, from page 791 to the end of the v lumd.

* 24 Howard, 333.

Dbec. 1868.]

DURANT

v. 'EssEx

COMPANY.

Statement of the caso.

that whatever might have been fairly within the scope of
the pleadings in the former suit, must be held, as concluded
by the judgment.

In the case before us, the second plea clearly aid dis
tinctly avers that the bonds, which are the foundation of plaintiffs' action, were issued without any good or valuable consideration, and that this fact waa known to the plaintiffs
when they received them. I have examined in vain all the'
pleas filed by defendants in the former suit to discover any
plea which set up thi defence, or which raised such' an issue
that the want of; consideration must have been passed upon
in'deciding the case. Nor can Idiscover any plea under which
it might have been decided. Here, then, is a distinct, suibstantial defence to the bonds sued on, sufficient to defeat
'the action., which was never presented to the court in the.
former action, and therefore, never decided; and I am of
opinion that the former suit did not conclude defendants'
right to have this matter inquired into in this action.

DURANT V.

EssEx COMPANY.

1 A decree dismissing a bill in an. equity suit in the Circuit Court of tae
United States, whichf is absolute in its terms, unless. made upon some
ground which does' not go to the merits, is a final determination of the
controversy, and constitutes a bar to any further litigation of the same
subject between the same parties.,
2. Where ,words of qualification, such as "without prejudice," or other terms
indidating a right or privilege to take further legal proceedings on the,
subject, do not accompany the decree, it is presumed to be rendered "on
the merits.
3. Where the judges of the Supreme Court of the United States are equally
divided'in opinion upon the questiofis of law or fact involved in a case
before the court on appeal or writ.of error, the judgment of affirmance,
which is the judgment rendered in such a case, is as conclusive and
binding in every respect upon the partids as if rendered upon the concurrence of all the judges upon every question involved in ihe case.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Massa-.

chusetts.
The Constitution vests appellate jqrisdiction in the Su-

