.Dec.
1'868.]1
1

UNITE-D STATES. V.

ADAMS.

Syllabus.

Viewed in any light, it is quite clear that the informer, in
these cases, has no vested interest in the subject-matter of

these suits, and that both motions ought to be
GRANTED.

The order in the first case is, that it be dismissed, kund

that order also disposes of Nos. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 33,
34, and 35.
Order in the secbnd case is, that the decree be reversed,
as stipulated by the parties, and that the cause be remanded,
with directions to dismiss the libel of information; and this
order also disposes of Nos. 44, 46, 48, 68, and 64, on the
calendar.
[See supra, 166, Dorsheimer v. United States.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.
1. It is the duty of the Secretary of War, as head of the War Department,
to see that contracts which belong to his office arc properly and faithfully executed, whether he have made the contracts himself or have
conferred authorityon others to make them; and if he becomes satis.
fled that contracts which lie has made himself are being fraudulently
executed, or that those made by others were made in disregard of the
rights of the government, or with the intent to defraud it, or are'being
unfaithfully executed, it is his duty to interpose, arrest the execution,
and adopt effectual measures to protect the government against the dishonesty of subordinates.
2. If there exist well-grounded suspicions, or facts unexplained, tending
strongly to the conclusion that contracts have been entered into. and
debts incurred, within a particular military district, in disregard of the
rights of the govrnncnt, the secretary has a right and is bound to
issue an order to suspend the payment of all claims against it.
8. In such a case (especially where the military district in which the contracts were made and are to be carried into execution is one distant from
Wasbington, where Congress and the Court of Claims sit, and "a resort
to these tribunals would occasion delay and expense), tie appointment
of a board of commissioners, to meet at once at the place where all the
transactions out of which the claims and demands of which payment is
now suspended riginated-the appointment being for the simple pur.
pose of affording to such claimants as might desire a tribunal to speedily

UNITED STATES V.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
hear and decide upon their claims, without the delay and expense of
resorting to those which the law had recognized or provided, and so to
relieve them from the hardship resulting from the suspension of the payment, as far as was in the power of the secretary-is a fit measure to be
taken by the secretary.
4. If the claimant voluntarily come before a board thus appointed, and present his claim, and the board investigate it, and Congress afterwards
enacting that all claims allowed by such board shall bedeemed to be due
and payable, and be paid upon presentation of a voucher with the commissioners' certificate thereon-the petitioner do present his voucher
and receive payment of the sum so allowed by the board, he cannot
afterwards recover in the Court of Claims a balance which would remain on an assumption of the validity of his original contract.
5. These principles applied to contracts made in'1861 by General McKinstry,
Quartermaster in the Western Military Division, under General Fremont, commanding, for mortar-boats and tug-boats, to be used by the
army on the Western rivers during the late civil war.

from the Court of Claims.
The suit was founded on the petition of Adams, claiming
a balance against the government on contracts with General
Fremont, commanding the Western Military District, for
the construction of a certain number of mortar-boats and
steam tug-boats, to be used' on the Western rivers in the
late civil war. The contracts were alleged to have been
kPPEAL

made on or about the 24th of August, 1861, for the mortarboats, at a cost of $8250 each; and- on or about the 10th of
September folloAv'ing, for the steam tug-boats, at the cost of
$2500 each. The petitioner was also to build cabins and
pilot-houses, and construct steering apparatus, and windlasses on the steam-tugs, for which he was to receive the
sum of $1800 in addition for each boat.
After these boats were constructed they were received into the
service of the government by the orders of the Secretary of War.
This was in the latter part of November, 1861. Previous to
this, on the 14th of October, of that year, General Fremont
was superseded in his command. And, in consequence of
representations of frauds and irregularitiescommitted by General
i.ieKinstry, the chief quartermasterof the army of this military
district,who had charge of making contracts for supplies and
materials necessary for equipping the troops for the expe-

8

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED. STATES V. ADAMS.
Statement of the case.

dition contemplated, and who made the contracts, among
niany others, in question, the Secretary of War, by order of
the President, suspended payments upon all contracts within
the department until an investigation could be had into the
charges thus made.
General McKinstry was afterwards dishonorably dismissed
the service for frauds found to have been committed agaifist
the government while serving as chief quartermaster of this
army. And, after his suspension, on: the 25th of October,
1861, the secretary, by a Jike order, appointed a board of
commissioners "to examine and report, to the Secretary of
War, upon all unsettled claims against the military department of the West, that had originated prior to the 14th of
October, 1861, the ,day General Fremont had been superseled." This .board, composed of three gentlemen of the
hlighest intelligence and character (Messrs. David .Davis,
J'oseph Holt, and Hugh Campbell), *met, witho it delay, at
the city of St. Louis, the headquarters of the military depaftment in which the irregularities and frauds in its administration, as charged, had been committed, and 6ntered
upon their duties; first giving notice to all persons holding
claims against the government to present them for examination, with such proofs aud explanations as the claimant
might think proper to exhibit. Under this notice, the petitioner, on the 10th of December, 1861, presented his claima,
which were as follows:
2w United Sttes to Theodore Adams, Dr.
For building 88 mortar-boats for the United States, as
per order of Major-General Fremont, herewith attached, dated August 24, 1861,
. $313,500 00
Deduct this amount, paid by Major McKinstry on the
day of .....
$75,000
Deduct this amount, paid by Major A. Allen,
quartermaster, 7th to 12th November,
55,000
Total to be deducted,
.
130,000 00
Balance due,

.

On this account th commissioners allowed the lietitioner
..
vor,. VIn.
80

$183500 00

$75,959 24

UNITED STATES v. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The United States to The6dore Adans, Dr.
For building 4 hulls for tug-boats for the United States,
as per contract herewith, dated September 10, 1861,
by Major McKinstr ', quartermaster, at $2500 each,
For building 4 hulls for tug-boats for the United States,
as per contract herewith, by Major McKinstry,
quartermaster, dated September 21, 1861, at $2500
each,.
,For building 8 cabins for tug-boats for the United
States, as per contract herewith, dated September
20, 1861, by Major McKinstry, quartermaster, for
$1800 each,

$10,000 00

10,000 00

14,400 00
$34,400 00

Deduct amount already paid,
Balance,

9,000 00
$25,400 00

On this account the commissioners, deducting therefrom $5204 from the charge for tug-boats, allowed
the petitioner
.$20,196

00

For these several sums, $75,959.24 and $20,196.00, this
board gave vouchers to the claimant as due from the government on these contracts, and received from him a reeeipt in
ful of all demands, which he signed under protest. When the
papers were exchanged does not appear; but not long afterwards, on the 11th of March, 1862, Congress passed the
following joint resolution:
"That all sums allowed to be due from the United States to
individuals, companies, or corporations, by the commission here-

tofore appointed by the Secretary of War (for the investigation
of military claims against the Department of the West) conposed of' David Davis, Joseph Holt, and Hugh Campbell, now
sitting at St. Louis, Missouri, shall be deemed to be due and
payable, and shall be paid by the disbursing officer, either at St.
Louis or Washington, in each case upon the presentation of the
voucher, with the commissioners' certificate thereon, in any Ibrm
plainly indicating the allowance of the claim, and to what
amount. This resolution shall apply only to claims and contracts for service, labor, or materials, and for subsistence, cloth.

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED

STATES V. ADAMS.

Argument for -the government.

ing, transportation, arms, supplies, and the purchase,, hire, and
construction of vessels."
Under this resolution the claimantand petitioner belown presented
his vouchers, and received payment of the several sums allowed by
the board.
The present suit, as has already been said, was brought
by him against the government to recover the balance of
the contract price of the mortar and steam tug-boats, with
their fixtures, over and above the amount allowed by the
board, after an investigation into the merits and the payment of the same under this joint resolution.
The Court of Claims decided that he was entitled to xecover that balance, and gave judgment for him against the
United States for $112,748.76; finding, also, that the value
of the mortar-boats and tug-boats was $274,408.80.
Mfr. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Dickey, Assistant Attorney- General,for the appellants:
The case nowhere shows-the Court of Claims, we mean,
has nowhere found as a fact1st. That anybody had authority to make these contracts;
or2d. That anybody ratified, or meant to ratify them; or3d. That there was any emergency which justified making
them.
The whole case is:
1st. That during the late civil war General Fremont "did
contract for the boats; and,
2d. That, after they were built, they were taken by the
government,, under orders of the Secretary of War, into
government use.
Now, it cannot be successfully maintained that Fremont
had power, even in virtue of his office, to bind the government by contracts whose magnitude was limited only by his
own judgment. His power can be maintained only by an
unjust and most dangerous extension of a just and safe principle, tho principle that all appropriate means are allowable
to carry out tegitimate ends.

UNITED

STATES

v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the contractor.

As to the Secretary of War, he had no power, because the
statute of May 1, 1820,* thus enacts:
"No contract shall hereafter be made by the Secretary of
State, or of the Treasury, or of the Department of War, or of
the Navy, except (1) under a law authorizing the same, or (2)
under an appropriation adequate to its fulfilment; and'excepting also (3) contracts for tho subsistence and clothing of the
army and navy, and (4) contracts by the Quartermaster's Department, which may be made by the secretaries of the departments."
The whole case of the claimants, therefore, must rest on a
ratification of the contract, as matter of-law, upon the ficts
of the case; in other words, upon an assumption that by the
secretary's taking the boats and tugs into tbi service of the
United States, void contracts, by force of ratification, become
valid ones. But the fact that property came into the possession of, and was used by the government, has no tendency
to prove that it was received under a contract for a specific
price, which contract the agents-of the government receiving it, bad no legal power to make. The only thing which
can be presumed, where goods are accepted by a party, in
the absence of all contract about what he shall pay for them,
is, that he will pay for them what they are reasonably worth.
That is presumable enough. This case, therefore, afforded
grounds for a quantum meruit. And it afforded nothing else.
But a settlement, and receipt of the money, upon this basis
of a quantum meruit, understood to be paid upon that footing,
precludes the subsequent assertion of a special different contract. And that, we submit, is the sort of settlement.and
receipt which took place in this case.
Messrs. Carpenter and Wills, contra, for the appellee; and
Messrs. Carlisle and Corwine for appellees in other cases argued
with this and involving the same question in principle. A
brief of Mr. B. R. Curtis being also filed in the present case.
* 3 Statutes at Large, 568,

6.

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

Argument,for the contractor.

1st. Had General Fremont power, under his authority as
commanding general, to make these contracts?
In attempting to solve this question, it is in vain for the
counsel of the government to seek the full measure of the
authority of the commander of a military department, in
time of war, either in the statutes of the United States or in
the Regulations of theArmy; for neither of them have attempted to define his powers.
It is true, that the Regulations of the Army declare that
"the Ordnance-Department furnishes all ordnance and ordnance stores for the military service,"* and that "the' Quartermaster's Department provides the quarters and trapsportation of- the army," &c.t But they are silent, and from
the natureoof the case, must be, on the great and essential
points in time of war, of the plan of campaign, the ends to
be attained, the ways and means of their attainment, and
when, and where, and to what extent the services of these
subordinate departments shall be tequired. They are but
instruments, means to ends. The' commanding generaj, on
the contrary, in thb execution of his plans, breathes into
them life, and dictates the time, and place, and extent of
their action. They work according to rule, it-is true, but
they work under his direction- and for the attainment of his
ends. He is charged with the success of the campaign, and
he alone is responsible fof results, and for the manner in
which he discharges that duty.
The war poWers of Congress, and of the President, as
commander-in-chief of the army and navy, and (as a necessary consequence) of his subordinate commanding generals
in their several military departments, are unlimited in time
of war, except by the law of war itself.
The rationale of this fundamental principle of law in war,
may be stated in the language of Alexander Hamilton: It
"rests upon two axioms, simple as they are universal: the
means ought to be proportioned to the end; the persons fror
whose agency the attainment of the end is expected, ought
Revised Regulations for 1861, Article 47,
lb., Article 42, 1064.

1375.

UNITED STATES

v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. (C't.

Argument for the contractor.

to possess the means by which it is attaifned." Chief Justice
Marshall is explicit to the same effect.*
It is matter of public history, history which the cou
will judicially notice, that the mortar-boats were designed
fbr the double purpose of pontoons for moving armies across
"ers, and of floating batteries, for dislodging the enemy
omn fortified points on the river; and that the tug-boats
were designed, among other general uses, to furnish the
necessary motive power for towing them rapidly from point
to point, in the descent of the river; and matter of public
history, moreover, that they were used with success during
the war.
The Venice,t in which the authority of taw was given to a
proclamation of General Butler, maintains the authority
which we here assert for General Fremont.
The question of authority to make the contracts in this
case may, therefore, be regarded as settled.
It was objected by the United States, after taking and
using the boats, that, in point of fact, General Fremont
agreed to pay too much for them; but that is a question
which does not legitimately arise in the case. The only
question is, wheither the contracts were made by competent authority, and within the scope of the authority of the
public agent who made them. That being shown, in the
absence of fraud (which, if pretended, is not proven), the
contract price beconfes the law of the case.
But again. We go further. The authority of General
Fremont being shown, even if it were admitted that he had
not made a judicious bargain for the government in the
mAtter of price, or be shown that he had received and violated private instructions in the matter of price, directing
him to give what has been allowed by the St. Louis cbmmission, and no more, nevertheless, under well-established
principles of the law of agency, the .government would be
* McCullough v. Bank of Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 409, 421 ; and see Whiting's " War Powers under the Constitution," 10th edit. 35, 77, 81. Note,
82-83, 167-168, 270, 307-308.
T 2 Wallace, 276, 278, 279.

Dec. '1868.]'

UNITED STATES v.

ADMS

471

Argument for ,the e6ntractor.

bound by his contracts in the matter of price, because 'his
instructions being private, and the subject-matter of the contracts being within the general scope of his' authority, the
clainant was justified in contracting with him as a public
agent, possessed of full power to contract on its behalf.*
The government, therefore, could not, in law, have, dis. owned his contract, even if, after it was made, it had done
so in fact.
It is denied on the other side, that the United States are
bound by these contracts, because the Secretary of War
could not authorize Fremont to make them; he being prohibited from making them by the act6f May 1st, 1820.
Bhit each of the exceptions in that act constitutes an alternative conditioh, the existence of which in any case takes the
given case out of the prohibition of this law, and at the
same time authorizes a contract to be.made by the secretaries of the departments named. There can be no doubt that
such contracts, from their nature and subject-matte:., belonged to the Quartermastet's Department. Moreover the
power to contract is not limited by the act to any particular.
form or mode of making the- contract.
Conceding that General Fremont had no power as agent
of the government to bind it. How standg the case then?
The case does not show that the appellee -knew, or had
any-means of knowing'what consultations had taken place,
or what arrangements had been made, between General
Fremont and the department. He did know that General,
Fremont undertook to, contract in 'behalf of the United
States;. and there is no reason to doubt that he was induced
to begin, prosecute and coriiplete the Work, in the faith that
he was doing it under these special ontracts with the United
States. The moment that the'boats were compldted for
service, which"was of course at the earliest date practicable,
they were surrendered into the possession of the United
States, and under the authority of the Secretary* of War
they went into their military service. This amounts toan
United States v. Arredondo et a. , 6 Peters, 729.

UNITED STATES v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the contractor.

adoption by the secretary of the contracts under and by
force of which the boats had been built, and under which
alone the United- St-,:s were entitled to receive them. The
transfer of the boats to the United States must be intended
to have been made under and by force of some contract,
express or implied, either for agreed sums, or for such sums
ais they were reasonably worth; for it will not be pretended
either that the appellee made a gift of them to the government,'or that they were taken by law under the right ot
eminent domain. Under some contract then the boats were
delivered, aud why not under the actually existing contracts.
The appellee had acted throughout under those contracts.
ie had in all things conformed to their requirements. The
boats were completed without any notice that the contracts
were repudiated by the United States, and they were delivered and received into the military service of the United
States.
If General Fremont had not lawful power to bind the
United States, he undertook to do so, and the appellee contractedand boand himsef as if the General had been the lawful
representative of the United States. It was competent fbr
the secretary to adopt and confirm a contract already agreed
to, and thus to make a contract. And the acceptance of the
boats for service, and the subsequent employment of them
under his authority, is in judgment of law an adoption of
the only agreements by force of which the boats had been
built and were prepared for service.
The actial intention of the Secretary of War in receiving
the boats and employing them in the public service, is not
the subject of inquiry. As respects the United States, the
secretary bad power to acquire the title to the boats either
for an agreed price or for a quant ion meruit. But as respects
the appellee, the secretary had no power to compel him to
make a new contract or part with his property without any.
By receiving the boat2 the secretai-y is conclusively presnmned to have assented to the only terms on which the'
builder had signified his willingness to part with them; and
the only terms on which the builder ever signified his"will-

UNITED STATES -0. ADA.

[Sup..S. Ot.

Argument for the contractor.

tion, like any other statement of facts. And if it appear,
outside of the receipt, that the sum received was only parcel
of the sum due, the legal claim for'.the residue is not' satisfied.*
It is true that if there is a dispute between parties as to
the amount of a claim, and they harmonize that dispute by
an agreement that only a certain amount is justly due, and
that amount is paid and received in full satisfaction of the
claim, that is a bar; it may be pleaded as an accord and
satisfaction. And this because there is an accord by the
mutual agreement of the parties upon that sum, as what is
mutually admitted to be what is justly due, and a satisfaction
by the payment of that agreed sum.
The only remaining inquiry then is, whether what took
place by reason of the action of the commissioners, amounts
in law to an accord and satisfaction.
There is no warrant in the facts for this legal conclusion.
1. The claim presented by the appellee was a claim to be
paid the contract prices.
2. The commissioners had no legal power whatever.' They
were agents of the executive government of the United
States to ascertain, for the action of the executive government, as well as they could, what debts the government had
they had no power
incurred under certain contracts. %But
debts; and still less
of
those
one
any
'or
diminish
to increase
had. they any power to fix judicially and finally what any
debt amounted to.
Before this pi'ovisional committee it appears that the appel-.
lee presented'his claim. He did so, to a large extent, compulsorily. The commission being appointed, his ne'cessities. as
contractor compelled him to'go before it.. This was a sort of"
duress.f "But he stood on his contracts. The coninlittee had
no power to fix their validity or invalidity. He certainly did
not concede their invalidity; for his claim before them was an
Pinnel's Case, 5 Reports, 288; Fitch v. Sutton, 5 East, 280; Kellogg v
Richards, 14 Wendell, 116; Curtiss v. Martin, 20 Illinois, 577.
t See Proof v. Hines, Cases Tempore Talbot, 111%

Dec. 1,868.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

Argument for the contractor.

ingness to part with them were the contract terms. He
never, in fact, agreed to a quantum meruit, and the secretary
had no power to make him agree or fix his rights without
any agreement. If the government, through its authorized
agent, chose to repudiate the contracts made by General
Fremont, they might have done so. But the government
could not claim and take the property without any contract
voluntarily made by the appellee, nor avail themselves of so
much of the contract as gave them the title to the property,
and repudiate so much of the contract as promised to pay
for it.
It is argued that when goods are delivered under a void
contract, the party retaining them impliedly promises to pay
what they are reasonably worth. The rule has no application to this case. If tle secretary had power to make the
contracts, he had power to adopt and ratify them. Receiving
the property necessarily has that legal effect; and therefore
the property was not delivered and accepted under void contracts, but under contracts made valid by the act of acceptance.
Having accepted the boats, the conduct of the secretary
in refusing to pay for them and disowning the contract,
must be characterized as unusual, harsh, and unjustified. He
appointed his commission without reference to the wishes or
intentions of the contractors, and ignores and cuts off by a
mere official order debts contracted in form. Can he do
this? This question brings us to consider the next point.
2d. Is the receipt signed by the appellee a legal bar to his
claim?
This inquiry is to be made under the concession that the
.,ppellee was justly entitled to rely on his special contracts
with the government, and recover the contract prices stipulated therein, or at the least, was justly entitled to receive
the actual worth of his work, labor, and materials, which
have gone Lo the benefit of the government; and that he
has not actually received either of them.
Now a receipt in full is merely the declaration of a fact,
It is not a contract. It is open to explanation or contradic-

Dec. 186S.]

DUNTITED-

STATES V. ADAMP,

.Argument for the contractQr.

assei'tion that hig rights iyere governed by them alone. Thie
claim they disallowedand made, knov~n their determination
that he. was entitled to a less' sum. -They also insipted, -and
we think, without authority, that he must sign 'anacknowl- edgment that no more was due, as a condition eor obtaining the
vouchers for that which the committee admitted to be. due. lie
signed to obtain the' vouchers, protesting that his aeknowledgment that !he amount was' all that was due, was not truei
ahd was not freely assented to by him. How is it possible.
to make an accord and satisfaction out of -this transaction ?
'It is true that if one does an act having a ,fixed'and neces:
sary legal operation', his protest accompanying that act that
he does not do it, can have no effect. He does it, and saying
that he does not is futile. But signing a receipt is not .an
act having-a fixed and necessary legal operation. It is-simply
an admission of a fact; which carries with it primd facie"evidence of that fact, or if is evidence of an assent to'a dorn-promise of rights, and when it is relied on for the .latter
purpo'se, as it is here, if it appears that there wa's no' actual
assent to a compromise of rights, that the receipt wa accompanied by a protest that they were not intended to be relinquished, and that the receipt was signed only under the
pressure. of necessity to obtain a part of the just dues of the
creditor, the law is clear that it does not operate as a bar'.
As to the act of Congress ordering the sums-fixed bythe
committee to be paid, and the receipt by the appellee of the
sum sai4l to be' due to him, it is not perceived how his fixed
legar rights can have been affected thereby. Congress did
not attempt to give aby force to the action of the committee,
ffirther than to auth6rize the payment of the sums they had
declared to be' due. . Any claims for a further sum, justly
due from the. United States on special contracts, does not
appear to have been lirought, in any way, to the notice of
Congress. And certainly there is no presumption, wholly
outside of the terms and subject-matter of this act, that
Congress meant to dictate to any one having a just 'claim
against the United States, that if he should accept what
was thereby appropriated for him, he should be deemed
-

UNITED STATES

v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

thereby to waive and abandon all further claim. Such waiver
and abandorment is a substantive and important thing, and
it is not provided for by the act, either in terms, or by any
just implication.
.Reply: It is not the receipt, or the decision of the commission, but the taking the voucher on the receipt, and
taking the money under the act of Congress by means of it,
which ended the affair.
As to duress. Can he who has a just claim against the
United States be allowed to say, in its courts of law, that his
means and prospects of obtaining justice were so deficient
and inadequate that, in taking a sum of money from the
government, paid to him in full satisfaction of it, he was
acting under duress? We have, indeed, "diversities of administration;" but the same spirit of justice works in all.
It is an old maxim of English law, that the king can do no
yvrong. It must, at least, be held by the highest judicial
tribunal of this nation, that an apprehension of injustice
from the United States cannot be rightfully assumed and
adopted by any citizen as a rule of action, or asserted as
a jts-tification of any course of conduct otherwise indefensible.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
There has been a good deal of discussion between the
learned counsel upon the quehtions, whether or not General
Fremont possessed competent power, as commander of the
military department, to make a valid contract with the
petitioner for the construction of the boats, in the absence
of any authority from the Quartermaster-General or Secretary of War; and if not, whether the delivery of the boats,
acceptance by the secretary, and employment in the service
of the government, did not operate as a ratification of the
same? In the view the court have taken of the case, it is
not material how these questions are answered. For thra
purposes of the decision, we may admit the competency of
the power.

Dec. 1868.1

UNITED $TATES V. ADAMS.
Opinion of the court.

The Secretary of War, subject to the authority of the
President, is at the head of the department of the go-eerninent on whom the duty devolved to provide these boat for
the military expedition in contemplation by General Fremont, after their construction had been determined on.
The head of the appropriate bureau of this branch of the
service is the quartermaster-general, who is under the direction of the secretary.* And whether the contracts for
the construction were made by General Fremont or by the
quartermaster-general, the source of the authority is the
head of the War Department. And whether he makes the
contracts himself, or confers the authority upon others, it
is his duty to see that they are properly and faithfully
executed; and if he becomes satisfied that contracts which
he has made himself are being fraudulently executed, or
those made by others were made in disregard of the rights
of the government, or with the intent to defraud it, or are
being unfaithfully executed, it is his duty to interpose, arrest
the execution, and adopt effectual measures to protect the
government against the dishonesty of subordinates. This
duty is too plain and imperative to call for comments. As
the head of the department under whose charge' the contracts were made and were being carried into execution, and
over which he had the superintendence and control, he was
responsible to the government for any detriment to its interests which it was reasonably within "his power to prevent
or remedy. We do not agree, therefore, that there wvas anything unusual, harsh, or unjustifiable on the part of the secretary, if there existed well-grounded suspicious or facts
unexplained, tending strongly to the conclusion that cohtracts had -been entered into, and debts incurred, within this
military district, in disregard of the rights of the governmnei, in issuing the order to suspend the payment of all
claims against it. This was a proper if not an indispensable
step to prevent the consummation of the frauds. He would
have been reqreant to his duty if he had acted otherwise; and
* 1 Stat, at Large,696; 4 Td. 173; 5 Id. 257; Regulations of 1861, art. 1064

UNITED STATES

v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

after having thus suspended these claims upon grounds and
for the reason stated, which we are of opinion fully justified
him, unless some provision had been made affording an immediate opportunity to the claimants to exhibit their claims,
and establish their justice and integrity, their only remedy
would have been an appeal to Congress or to the Court'of
Claims, which, as then organized, had no power to render
judgment against the government. Both these bodies were
soon to be in session at Washington, so that, without any
great delay, they could have been presented there, examined,
and. allowed or rejected. But these tribunals were distant
from the place where these contracts had been made and
were being carried into. execpution, and a resort to them
would have occasioned delay and involved much expense.
Under these circumstances, although they were thp appropriate and, we may say, only legal tribunals to investigate
and adjust claims that the heads of departments had felt it
their duty to suspend or reject, it was fit, and c(mmendable
in the secretary, to appoint this board of commissioners to

meet at once at h place v-here all the transactions had occurred out of which the claims and demands in dispute originated. It was impracticable for the secretary himself to hear
and adjust them, even if the parties had desired it. The only
immediate relief, therefore, within his power to provide,
consistent with his duty under the circumstances, was to
appoint persons to represent him.
We agree that this board possessed no authority, nor
would the secretary, if he had appeared in person, have
possessed any, to compel a hearing and adjustment of the
claimsi nor did they hold themselves out as possessing any
such authority. The'board were constituted for the simpic
purpose of affording to such claimants as might desire a
tribunal to sp'eedily hear and decide upon their claims, without the delay and expense of resorting to those which the lw
had rbecognized or provided. It was to relieve them from
the hardship resulting from the suspension of the payment,
as far, as was in the power of the secretary; a suspension
which he had- felt compelled to order, under the circum-

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES v. ADAMS.

479

Opinion of the court.

stances, from a sense of duty to government. We cannot,
therefore, appreciate the force of the argument that has
beeii urged on behalf of these claimants, that the facility
thus furnished by the board to hear and pass upon their
claims, in some way operated compulsorily, to submit them
for investigation; not legally, but morally; and that their
necessities compelled them to seek this early opportunity to
have them heard and adjusted. This, we think, a misapp'ehension. It was not so much the presence of this board
that compelled the submission,' if any compulsion existed,
but the certainty, if the opportunity was not'accepted, they
would be obliged to encounter the delay and expense of an
application to Congress or the Court of Claims. The constitution of the board presented simply a choice of tribunals
to hear these claims. It was their preference for the tribunal
sitting in their midst, and the high character of its members,
that controlled the chbice. This tribunal also afforded an
additional advantage over the othe's, namely, that if after
the hearing and adjustment of the claims the claimants were
not satisfied, they were free to dissent, and look for redress
to the only legal tribunals provided in such cases.
It has been strongly argued, that the receipt in full of all
demands, which the board exacted from the claimant before
the delivery of the voucher, or findincr was unauthorized;
or, if authorizedothat it is no bar to that portion of the
origiual claim rejected by the board, as it is an instrument
subject to explanation; that a receipt for payment in full,
when only'part of the debt is paid, is no defence to an action
for the balance; and, furthei', that it was signed under protest. In the view we have taken of the case, the giving of
this receipt is of no legal importance. The bar to any
further legal demand against the government does not rest
upon this acquittance, but upon the voluntary submission
of the claims to the board; the hearing, and final decision
thereon; the receipt of the vouchers containing the suni or
amount found due to the claimant; and the acceptance of
the payment of that amount, under the act of Congress providing therefor. From the time the secretary issued hijs

UNITED STATES

v. ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

order, suspending the payment, and which we have held was
well justified, under the circumstances, they must be regarded as claims disputed by the government; and unless
this board had been constituted, could have been adjusted
only Iby Congress or the Court of Claims. They fell withir
that mass of claims which the heads of the several departmnets had refused to adjust according to the views of the
claimants, and this was the character that attached to them
when presented before the board. We do not doubt but
that there have been, and may be hereafter, cases where
payments have been mistakenly or wrongfully withheld,
and the claimant compelled either to give up his claim or
seek redress before the appropriate tribunals, existing at the
time, to hear and determine them. But this is no argument
against the power or right of the heads of the departmentE
to refuse the payment. What other remedy has the governmint to arrest the execution of fraudulent contracts, made
by its subordinates, or the unfaithful execution of them?
In such cases the courts are open to protect the rights of
private individuals, but this remedy is unavailable to the
g'overnment. The multitude of agents, official and otherwise, which it is obliged to employ in conducting its affairs,
render this remedy utterly impracticable. Unless, therefore, some power exists in the government, summarily, to
interfere, and arrest the frauds and irregularities committed
against it, they must be allowed to go on to consummation.
No one, we think, on reflection, will deny this power.
A good deal of the argument on the part of the claimant
in support of the right to recover the contract price of these
boats, is placed upon the ground of the absence of any authority in the board of commissioners to pass, in in'ilum,
upon the claims. We have conceded this want of authority.
They possessed no judicial power; nor did they claim to
exercise any. The government having suspended all payment upon the contracts upon allegations of frauds and
irregularities, until an inquiry could be had in respect to
them, appointed this board as a favor to its creditors, 'to
enable those who might desire it to have an immediate in-

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.

Opinion of the court.

vestigation. It was an act of kindness to them. They were
left free, however, to'present or withhold their claims. But
we find nothing in the constitution of the board, or in its
proceedings, or in the proceedings on the part of the government, indicating expressly, or by implication, that wheu
the investigation was thus voluntarily submitted to, the
amount adjusted, and the accepta nce of payment by the
claimant, the proceeding was not to be final. It could hardly
have been supposed or believed by the claimants themselves,
that the government would have gone to the expense of furnishing them a tribunal in their midst for this investigation,
and subject itself also to the expense of carrying it on in
the cases submitted to its cognizance as a matter of mere
preliminary inquiry to adjust parts or portions of a contract,
and make advances thereon, leaving the residue for further
litigation before Congress, or the Court of Claims. This is
not the course of litigation between private parties'; they are
not allowed to split up an entire contract or demand into
-several parts; and we are not aware of any reason for an
exception to the rule in a proceeding against the government. We cannot think that a further hearing before any
other tribunal of the same matters was within the contemplation of either party.
The hearing before this board was had more than a year
before the present Court of Claims was established, under
the act of Congress of March 3, 1863, which authorizes suits
and judgments agaiinst the government. Previously, the
only remedy of the creditor was by an application to Congress, or to the Court of Claims, which was established in
1855, but possessed no authority to render judgment against
it. It was but a commission appointed by the gove'nrent
to hear and pass upon claims, but whose determination had
no force till confirmed by Congress. It differed from the
commission in the present case, as it was established 'y law,
and had general authority to hear all claims; but, so far as
respects the cases of voluntary submission before the board,
we regard the finding, followed by acceptancu of payment,
as conclusive upon the claim as if it bad been before this
VOL. VII.

31

UNITED STATES V. KIRBY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

first Court of Claims, and heard and decided there, and the
amount found due paid by the g6vernment. Now, we suppose that it would be an error in the Court of Claims, a at
present constituted, with power to render judgment against
the government, to hear and revise the allowance of a claim
already heard and decided upon by Congress, or by the
former Court of Claims, and payment made, even if the
claimant was not satisfied. And, we think, it is equally
error, in the present case, upon the same principle and fbr
the'same reasons.
Indeed, unless the claimant is barred, under the circumstances stated, it would be difficult for the government to
determine when there would be an end to claims put forth
against it, as there is no statute of limitations, of which we
are aware, applicable to them before this court.
The judgment of the court is, that the decree must be
REVERSED,

the cause remanded, with directions to enter a

decree
DISMISSING THE PETITION.

UNITED STATES-V. KIRBY.

1. The temporary detention of the mail, caused by the arrest of its carrier
upon a bench warrant, issued by a State court, of competent jurikdiction, upon an indictment found therein for murder, is not an obstruction
or retarding of the passage of the mail, or of its carrier, within the

meaning of the ninth section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1825,
which provides "that, if any person shall knowingly and wilfully obstruct or retard the passage of the mail, or of any driver or carrier, or
of any horse or carriage carrying the same, he shall, upon conviction,

for every such offence pay a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars."
2. That goction applies only to those who know that the act, porformd by

3.

them, obstructing or retarding the passage of the mail, or of its carrier,
will have that effect, and perform them with the intention, that such
shall be their operation.
When the acts which create the obstruction are in themselves unlawful,
the intention to obstruct will be imputed to their author, although to

attain ether ends may have been his primary object.

The statute has

