578

MORRIS AND JOHNSON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

rendered, a motion to rescind was made in behalf of the
complainants, and was beard and decided.
There is no doubt that, during the term, the decree was,
at all times, subject to be rescinded or modified, upon motion, and could not, therefore, be regarded as, absolutely
final, until the end of the term. It became final, in this
case, when the motion to rescind had been heard and denied. This took place on the 18th of March, and, on the
20th, the appeal was prayed in open court, and on the 23d
the bond of appeal was approved and filed.
We think this was in time, and the motion for supersedeas
must, therefore, be allowed.*
ORDERS ACCORDINGLY

MORRIS AND JOHNSON V. UNITED STATES.
1. An information under the acts of August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862,
which presents only a case of the unlawful conversion of property to
the use of the persons proceeded against, cannot be sustained.
2. Neither the act of 1861, nor the act of 1862, contemplates any proceeding, as in adtniralty, where there existed no specific property or proceeds capable of seizure and capture. •

APPEAL from the District Court for the Middle District of
Alabama.
By An act of Congress of August.6th, 1861, property used
in aid of the rebellion was made the lawful subject of prize
and capture wherever found; and it was made the duty of the
President of the United States to cause the same to be seized,
confiscated, and condemned. And a subsequent act, that of
17th July, 1862, authorized the seizure and confiscation of
the property of certain persons engaged in the rdbellion.
These statutes being in force, an information was exhibited in this case in the cburt below, alleging, in substance,
that certain bales of cotton had become the property of the
Brockett v. Brockett, 2 Howard, 240.

Dec.

1868.]

MORRIS AND' JOHNSON V. U3NITED STATES.

579

Opinion of the court.,

States through the surrender of the Confederate General Taylor, on the 5th of May, 1865, or otherwise had become liable to seizure and condemnation under the acts-of
Congress.jus't\mentioned; that this cotton was stored, until
some day in April not specified, in the warehouse of the
defendant, Johnson; and on some day, not specified, in the
year 1865, was removed by him and the defendant, Morris,
from the warehouse and sold; and that the said defendants
had appropriated the proceeds to their own use. The information did not allege that the cotton w4s at the time, or
had ever been, in any place i'here it could be seized, or that
any proceeds of the sale existed in any such form as to be
capable of seizure.
The defendants answered, setting up various matters ,of
defence, and filed with their answer several exceptions to
the information, of which two only, as this court considered,
required notice.
The first was, that the information did not show any valid
and subsisting seizure at the time of filing the information.
The second was, that the information did not allege any
seizure under the acts of Congress.
These exceptions were overruled by the District Court,
which proceeded to render b.personal judgment against the
defendants for the value of the cotton, as-found by the court.
From this decree the defendants appealed.
Ur~ited

Mr. Chilton,for the appellants.
XUr. Ashton, Assistant AttOney-General, contra.
The CHIEFD' JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
In proceeding to render a personal judgment against the
defendants, for the value of the cotton, as found by it, the
District Court erred.
Without adverting to the principles settled in the cases
of the Union Insuiance Company v. United States,* and Armstrorg's Foundry,t we are plearly of opiuion-first, that the
* 6 Wrallace, 769.

+ 1b. 769.

UNITED STATES v. RoSENBUI GII.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the oase.

information, at most, presents only a case of the unlawful
conversion of property to the use of the appellants, and that
for redress of such an injury this proceeding by information cannot be sustained; and second, that neither the act
of 1861 nor the act of 1862 contemplated any proceeding, as
in admiralty, where there existed no specific property or proceeds capable of seizure and capture.
IThe decree of the District Court must therefore be REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to the District Court to cause restitution to be made to the appellants
of whatever sum of money they have been compelled to pay
under that decree.

UNITED STATES v. RoSENBURGH.
This court cannot take cognizance, under the Judiciary Act of 1802, of a

division of opinion between the judges of the Circuit Court, upon a
motion to quash an indictment.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Judiciary Act of 1802 provides that whenever any
question shall occur before a Circuit Court, upon which the
opinion of the judges shall be opposed, the point upon which
the disagreement shall happen, may be certified to this court,
and shall by it be fnally decided.
With, this statute in force, one Rosenburgh was indicted
in the court below, for an offence alleged to be within an
act of Congress specified. A motion being made to quash the
indictment, on the ground, among others, that upon the true
interpretation of the act under which the indictment was
made, no offence had been committed, aud that the indictinent was insufficient, a division of opinion on these points
existed between the judges, involving, of course, a division
as to whether the motion to quash ought or ought not to be
granted.

