Dec. 1868.]

SILVER V. LADD.

Statement of the case.

SILVER id. LADD.
1. In construing a benevolent statute of the government, made for the benefit
of its own citizens, and inviting and encouraging them to settle on its
distant public lands, the words "single man" and "married man,"
may, especially if aided by the context and other parts of the statute,
be taken in a generic sense. Reld, accordingly, that the fourth section
of the act of Congress of 27th September, 1850, granting, by way of
donation, lands in Oregon Territory to "every white settler or occupant,
. . . . American half-breed Indians included," embraced within the
term single man, an unmarried woman.
2. The fact that the labor of cultivating the. land required by the act was
not done by the manual labor of the settler is unimportant, if it was
done by her servant, or friends, for her benefit and under her claim.
3. Residence in a house divided by a quarter-section line, enables the occupant to claim either quarter in which he may have made the necessary
cultivation.
4. In cases where relief is sought on the ground that the patent was issued
to one person while the right was in another, the'decree should not
annul or set aside the patent, but should provide for transferring the
title to the person equitably entitled to it.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Oregon.

Ail act of Congress of 27th September, 1850, providing for
the survey and for making donations to settlers of public
lands in Oregon ,-commouly called the Donation Act,-provides by a part (here quoted verbatim) of its fourth section

as follows:
"There shall be, and hereby is, granted to every white settler
or occupant of the public lands, American half-breed Indians
included, above the age of eighteen years, being a citizen of
the United States, or having made a declaration according to
law of his intention to become a citizen, or who shall make
such declaration on or before the first day of December, T851,
now residing in said Territory, or who shall become a resident
bn or before the first day of December, 1850, and who shall
have resided upon and cultivated thu same for four consecutive years, and shall otherwise conform to the provisions of
this act, the quantity of one-half section, or 320 acres -of land,
if a single man, and if a married man the quantity of one sec.
tion. or 640 acres; one-half to himself and the cther half to his

SILVER v.

LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
w.fe, to be held in her own right, and the surveyor-general shall
designate the part enuring to the husband and that to the wife,
and enter the same on the records of his office."
The fifth section of the same act is thus:
"That to all white MALE citizens of the United States, or
persons who shall have made a declaration of intention to
become such, above the age of 21 years, emigrating to and
settling in said Territory, between 1 December, 1850, and 1
December, 1853, and to all white THALE American citizens not
hereinbefore provided for, becoming 21 years of age in said
Territory, and settling there between the times last aforesaid,
who shall in other respects comply with the foregoing section
and the provisions of this law, there shall be, and hereby is
granted, the quantity of one-quarter section, or 160 acres of
land, if a single man, or if married, or if he shall become married within one year from the time of arriving in said Territory, or within one. year after becoming 21 years of age as
aforesaid, then the quantity of one-half section, or 320 acres,
one-half to the husband and the other half to the wife, in her
own right, to be designated by the surveyor-general as aforesaid," &c.
With these provisions in force, Elizabeth Thomas, an
aged widow, went with her son, an unmarried man, to Oregon Territory, and settled there. They lived in the same
house. It stood upon the line dividing two parcels of
land; the line running through the centre of the building.
Cultivation was made on both tracts, one being claimed by
the mother, the other by the son. On the 17th of May, 1861,
the register and receiver of the proper land office issued a
donation certificate, declaring Mrs. Thomas to have made the
proof which entitled her to a patent for the tract which she
claimed. The son received also a certificate for the adjoining tract, which he claimed. There was no dispute
about that tract.
Mrs. Thomas had been a widow for more than twenty years
when the settlement was made -under which she received
the certificate. The certificate gL'"ated to Mrs. Thomas was
subsequently, June 25, 1862, set aside by the Commissioner

Dec. 1868.]

D SILVER V. LADD.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

of the Land Office, on the ground that she was not the head of
a family. On appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, the
action of the commissioner was affirmed, on the ground that
she was not a settler on the land. In January, 1865 (Mrs.
Thomas being nbw dead, and the land in possession of one
Silver, legal representative of her son, and only heir, Fenice
Caruthers, who died soon after her), the United States sold
the land and granted a patent for part of it to one Ladd,
and for the residue to a certain Knott. These brought ejectment against Silver in the Circuit Court of the United States
upon the patent.' Silver thereupon filed a bill in one of the
courts of Oregon against them, setting forth the title of Airs.
Thomas, of her son, and of himself, representing that the
patents were clouds on the true title, and praying an injunction against the suit at. law. The prayer asked further:
"That the said patents may each be declared to be fraudulent, and as being procured by misrepresentation and fraud, and
in favor of the rights of plaintiff, and that they be, and each of
them, declared cancelled and set aside, and declared fraudulent
and void, and that the claims of said defendants, and each of
them, be adjudged fraudulent and void, and without authority
of law, and that the title of the said premises be adjudged to
be in the estate of Fenice Caruthers, deceased, and that the
same.be quieted, and that the possession thereof be decreed to
the plaintiff."
The court in which the bill was filed dismissed it; and on
appeal to the Supreme Court of Oregon the decree was affirmed; that court holding that the donation certificate was
void, because Mrs. Thomas, having been an unmarried
female, was not such a person as could take lands under the
Donation Act. The question here now was the correctness
of the affirmance.
Mr.J.S. Smith, for the plaintiff in error:
The grounds taken by the Commissioner of the Land
Office and by the Secretary of the Interior seem to be without force. We reply to the argument of the Supreme Court
of-Oregon.

SILVER v'. LADD.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The word man is to be read in a generic sense, and as meaning person. There is probably not an essay or work of any
considerable length published in the English language, alluding to the human race, that does not employ the word constantly in this way. The words "he" and "man" are used
also frequently in acts of Congress to denote both males and
females, especially in many prohibitory and penal sections.
So, the naturalization laws-like this act a voluntary concession of favors-use the words "he," "him," and " man,"
constantly to denote and include both men and women.
The expression "single man," in this act, points to the quan.
tity of ]and rather than the classification of persons.*
T!3e qualifications mentioned in section 4 are repeated in
section .5, with the addition of the word "male," and with
a further limitation of persons, by leaving out " American
half-breed Indians." The age limit is also changed from 18
to 21 years. It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the
difference in phraseology of the two sections was intentional,
and the word "male" was insei ted in section 5 and omitted
in section 4 for a purpose. To make a word which in common use has both a generic and specific meaning, assume its
specific meaning when such meaning is not favored by its
position in the context, and is repugnant to the manner in
which the legislature have employed other words, would
make Congress guilty of discriminating in language without
a difference in meaning, and is opposed to the general spirit
of the act. Everywhere, through all its parts, the act shows
a liberal design and disposition toward making provision for
women.
If our view is right, the patent must be cancelled as void.
An idea seems to obtain that there is some magic about a
patent of the United States which precludes investigation
of its vatidity. But from the beginning, our State courts
have entertained a bill to avoid a patent in favor of previously acquired rights, upon precisely the same principles
that it would lie to avoid the deed of a private individual,
*Mick

v. Mick, 10 Wendell, 379; Sutliff v. Forgey, 1 Cowan, 97.

Dec. 1868.]

SILVER v.

LADD.

Argument for the defendant in error.

and the United States Supreme Court has taken the same
course without exception. The only debatable ground has
been to what extent and upon what grounds a patent can be
attacked in a court of law.
Messrs. Ashton, Coffey, and Lander, contra:
1. If the word "man," as used in section 4, is a generic
term, and includes woman as well as man, then it must be a
generic term when qualified in- the same sentence by the
adjective single, as well as when -qualified by thd adjective
married. It cannot have two meanings in -the same act, tlie
same section, the same sentence. If by the word man, man
alone is meant, the section and sentence have force and
meaning; if both are included, the meaning of the clause
is destroyed. It would read, thus:
"There shall be, and hereby is, granted to every white settler
or occupant of the public lahds. American half-breed Indians included, &c. If a single man (or woman), and if a married man,
(or woman), or if he (or she) shall become married within one
year from the 1st of December, 1850, the quantity of one section, or six hundred and forty acres, one Jialf to himself (or herself) and the other half to his wife, to be held by her in her own
right."
This reading is absurd on its face.
2. The state of the Territory of Oregon at the time thislaw
was passed, and the condition. of its laws with reference to
land, forbid the construction set up by the appellant. Oregon,
by treaty, was open to the joint occupation of the subjects
of Great Britain and the United States. Under the treaties,
citizens of the United States, as is well known, had braved
the dangers and endured the privations of an overland
journey across the continent, and settled among tribes of
Indians which were both hostile and treacherous. *ithout
government or protection, they created a provisional government, and. enated a land law suitable to their wants, and
proper to the condition of the country, where a man had
to defepd as well as to ldbor upon the land which he claimed

SILVER V.

LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and allotted to himself. Under such circumstances, the
words "any person," in the provisional land law, could
hardly be intended to include a single woman. This court,
in Stark v. Starrs,*goes far to sustain the doctrine that Congress had this land law in view when they passed the act of
27th of September, 1850. The construction put upon the
act by the Supreme Court of Oregon, whose judgment it is
now sought to reverse, is, in effect, an interpretation of a
State law by the courts of the State itself.
8. Confessedly Mrs. Thomas was an old woman when she
went to Oregon, how old don't clearly appear, but certainly
aged. She could not have made the cultivation required.
In fact she lived in her son's house; he made the settlement,
if any was made, but confessedly it was not on this tract.
He, not she, was the head of a family. The objections of
the commissioner and secretary are, therefore, not without
force, though less conclusive than those of the Supreme
Court of Oregon.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The donation certificate granted to Elizabeth Thomas was
set aside by the Commissioner of the Land Office, June 25,
1862, on the ground-that Elizabeth Thomas was not the head
of a family. On appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, the
action of the commissioner was affirmed, on the ground
that she was not a settler on the land. The Supreme Court
of Oregon, whose judgment we are now to review, held the
certificate void, because she was not such a person as could
take lands under the act, being an unmarried female.
If, for any of these reasons, the action of the commissioner
can be sustained-, then the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oregon dismissing plaintiff's bill must be affirmed. If it cannot, then the patents issued to defendants after the certificate
of Elizabeth Thomas was wrongfully set aside, must enure
to the benefit of plaintiff, representing her equitable title.t
6 Wallace, 415.
-Lindsey v. Hawes, 2 Black, 654; Garland v. Wynn, 20 Howard, 8;
Minnesota v. Bachelder, 1 Wallace, 109.

Dec. 1868.]

SILVER v.

L-ADD.

Opinion of the court.

It is upon the application of the facts of this case to part
of section four of the act of 1850, that the questions of construction already mentioned arise.
As there is nothing in this act which requires the settler
to be the head of a family, that question may be dismissed
without further consideration.
In reference'to the question of actual settlement and residence on the land, we have only to refer to the case of
Lindsey v. Hawes,* where this precise question is raised, and
where it is said that a person residing in a house which is
bisected by the line dividing two quarter sections, will be
held to reside on both, and, consequently, on either of them,
to which he may assert.a claim 1or is any importance'to
be attached to the fact that Mrs Thomas was old and incapable of the manual labor necessary to.cultivating groutnd.
If it was done for her by hired servants, or by her son without compensation, it is equally available to her. In reference to this question and to the one next to be considerednamely, the right of unmarried women to the benefits of
this statute--we may apply, with added force,-the language
used in Lindsey v. Hawes, that tt concerns a construction of
one of the most benevolent statutes of the government,
made for the benefit of its own citizens, inviting and encouraging them to settle upon its public lands. In addition
to this it may be said that the section of this statute which
we are now considering was passed for the purpose of ieewarding in a liberal manner a meritorious cla~s of persons,
who had taken possession of-.tkat c~utitry and held it-for the
United States, under circumstances of great danger and discouragement. These circumstances and thepolicy of t'his
act are fully tated in the case of Stark v. Starrs,t decidea at
our last term.
Anything, therefore, which savors of narrowness or illiberality in defining the class, among those residing in the Territory in those early da-s, and partaking of the hardships
which the act was intended to reward, who shall be entitled
j- 6 Wallace, 402.

2 BIack, 554.
VOL. VILI

16

SILVER V. LADD.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

to its benefits, is at variance with the manifest purpose of
Congress.
With these views we approach the last and most difficult
question in the case, namely, whether Mrs Thomas is excluded from the benefit of this act because she was an unmarried woman.
The affirmation of this proposition is based upon that
clause of the fourth section, which, in prescribing the quantity of land to be given to each actual settler, says it shall
be "one-half section, or three hundred and twenty acres, if
a single man, and if a married man," six hundred and fbrty
acres. We admit the philological criticism that the words
"single man" and "married man," referring to the conjugal
relation of the sexes, do not ordinarily include females.
And no doubt it is on this critical use of the words that the
decision of the Oregon court is mainly founded.
But, conceding to it all the force it may justly claim, we
are of opinion that it does not give the true meaning of the
act, according to the intent of its framers, for the following
reasons:
1. The language of the statute is, that there is hereby
granted to "every white settler or occupant of the public
lands, above the age of eighteen years," &c. This is intended to be the description of the class of persons who may
take, and if not otherwise restricted, will clearly include all
women of that age as well as men.
2. It is only in prescribing the quantity of land to be
taken, that the restrictive words are used, and even then the
words used are capable of being construed generically, so as
to include both sexes. In the case of a married man it is
clear that it does include his wife.
3. The evident intention to give to women as well as men,
is shown by the provision, that, of the six hundred and forty
acres granted to married men, one-half shall go to their
wives, and be set apart to them by the surveyor-general,
and shall be held in their own right. Can there be any
reason why a married woman, wbh has the care and protee-

.Dee 1868.]

SILVER V. LADD.
Opinion of the court.

tion of a husband, and who is incapable of making a sepa
rate settlement and cultivation, shall have land given to her
own use, while the unprotected female, above the age of
eighteen years, who makes her own settlement and cultivation, shall be excluded?
4. But a comparison of the manifest purpose of Congress
and the language used by it, in section four of this statute,
with those of section five, will afford grounds for rejecting
the interpretation claimed by defendants, which are almost
conclusive.
The first of these sections applies, as we have already said,
to that meritorious class who were then residing in the Territory, or should become residents by the first of December
thereafter. It extends to persons not citizens of the United
States, to persons only eighteen years old, and it gives to
each a half-section of land. The fifth section makes a donation of half this amount, and is restricted to citizens of
the United States, or those who have declared their intention to become citizens, and to persons over. twenty-one years
of age. But what is most expressive in regard to the matter
under discussion is, that the very first line of that section,
in which the class of donees is described, uses the words
"white male citizens of the United States."
Now, when we reflect on the class of persons intended to
be rewarded in the fourth section, and see that words were
used whiclh included half-breeds, foreigners, infants over
eighteen, and which provided expressly for both sexes whjen
married, and used words capable of that construction in
cases of unmarried persons, and observe that in the next
section, where they intend to be more restrictive, in reference to quantity of land, to age of donee, citizenship, &c.,
they use apt words to express this restriction, and then
use the word "white males" in reference to sex, we are
forced to the conclusion that they did not intend, in seetion four, the same limitation in regard to sex, which they
so clearly expressed in section five. The contrast in the
language used in regard to the sex of the donees in the two
sections. is sustained throughout bytthe other contrasts in

228

SILVER v.. LADD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

age and character of the donees, and in quantity of land
granted.
The certificate of Mrs. Thomas was, therefore, proper'y
issued by the register and receiver, and conferred upon her
the equitable right to the land in controversy, and the decree of the Supreme Court of Oregon must be reversed.
But the language of the prayer of this bill for relief, and
some remarks in the brief of counsel, call for comment on
the proper decree to be rendered on the return of the case
to that court.
The relief given in this class of cases does not proceed
upon the ground of annulling or setting aside the patent
wrongfully issued. That would leave the title in the United
States, and the plaintiff might be as far from obtaining justice as before. And it may be well doubted whether the
patent can be set aside without the United States being a
party to the suit. The relief granted is founded on the
theory that the title which has passed from the United States
to the defendant, enured in equity to the benefit of plaintiff;
and a court of chancery gives effect to this equity, according
to its forms, in several ways.* The most usual mode under
the chancery practice, unaffected by statute, is to compel the
defendant, in person, to convey to plaintiff, or to have such
conveyance made in his name, by a commissioner appointed
by the court for that purpose. In some of the States it is
provided by statute that a decree of the court shall operate
as a conveyance where it is so expiessed in the decree, and
additional relief may be granted by giving possession of the
land to plaintiff, quieting his title as against defendants, and
enjoining them from asserting theirs.
The prayer for general relief in the bill in this case is
sufficient to justify any or all these modes of relief, and the
case is

REMANDED

TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF OREGON

for

that purpose.
* Jackson v. Lawton, 10 Johnson, 24; Boggs v. Mining Company, 14

California, 363-4.

