Dec. 1868.

,.

"THE A-Licik.

571

Syllabus.

of a part of it was objected toby the defendant, but it-does
not appear .that the objection.was overruled, and exception
taken.- It only appears that the testimony was admitted
after the objection was made. Non constat, but 'that the objection wah waived, or the decision acquiesced in. - In order
to make such a point aiailable, it is necessary that an excep.
tion should be distinctly taken, and placed upon the record.
4. It was fiot error for the court to refuse to give -the instructions asked for' by the defQndait, even if 'correet
in
entire case,
point of law, provided those given covered the
and submitted it properly to the jury. The defences of false,
and fraudulent representations to the defendant,.and of the
non-indorsement of the 'note, involved mixed questions-of
law and fact., We think the law was properly stated by the
judge, and the.facts fairly submitted to the jury. The charge
was full and able. It/would throw no new light upon'any
legal principle, and could be productive of no benelit, to.
examine in-detail, each of the numerous passages takenfrom
the charge, and made the subject 6f exception.
t "is
sufficient to say that, after a careful examination of. all of them,'
in the light of the context of the charge, and of the evidence, as it 'was before the Jury, we have found nothiuk.
which we deem erroneous.
5. An exception to the bverruling of -the motion for a new
trial is found in the record, but isnot adverted to in 'the
argQment submitted for the plaintiff in error. Such a decision cannot be made the subject of-review by this court.
The judgment below is
AFFIRMED.-.

THE ALICIA.
17-This court cannot acquire jurisdiction of a cause through an order of a
Circuit Court directing its transfer to this court, though such transfer
be authorized by the express provisionofan.actofCongress. Suchprovision must be regarded as an attempt, inadvertently made, to give to
this court a jurisdiction withheld by the Constitution.

THE ALICIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.
2. In such a case, a notice to docket and dismiss, must be denied, and this
court will certify its opinion to the Circuit Court, for information, in
order that it may proceed with the trial of the cause.

THIs was a motion by Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney-General, to docket and dismiss.
It appeared from the certificate of the clerk of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Florida, that on the 9th of January, 1863, a decree of condemnation was entered in the District Court for the condemnation of the Alicia and her cargo, for violation of the blockade.
From this decree an appeal was allowed, and taken to the
Circuit Court; and, on the 18th of May, 1867, an order was
made in that court, on the application of the parties in interest-there being at this time, in the Circuit Court, no
order, judgment, or decree in the case-for the transfer of
the cause to this court.
The application and order for transfer were made under
the thirteenth section of the act of June 30, 1864,* which
enacts 'that prize causes, depending in the Gircuit Courts,
may be transferred, upon the application of all parties An
interest, to this court.
The appellant had not docketed the cause and filed the
record within the time allowed by the rules in cases of appeals, and Mr. Ashton's motion to dismiss was male for
that reason.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
As the appellant has not docketed the cause and filed the
record within the time allowed by the rules in cases of appeabls, the motion would be allowed as of course, if the appeal could be regarded as taken to tiits court from the decree
of the District Court. But the decree of condemnation in
that court was rendered in January, 1863, and the appeal to
the Circuit Court was allowed, and bond given, in the same
month. By these proceedings i and the transmission of the
record to the Cipcuit Court, the cause was duly removed to
13 Stat. at Large, 811.'-

Dec. 1868.]

THE ALICIA.
Opinion of-the court.

that court under, the laws. 'iegulating appeals at that time.
Subsequently, by the thirteenth. section of the act of June
30, 1864, provision was made for appeals in prize cases directly from the District Court to this court; and it was
directed that appeals from the Circuit Courts, in cases reiaining therein, should,be allowed to this court in the same
manner as appeals from the District Court under thQ- act.
But it was also provided in the same section that prize
causes, depending in the Circuit Courts, might 'be transferred, upon the application of all parties in interest, to this
court; and it was under' this provisiQn that the applicatiou
and order for transfer were made.
Can this court acquire jurisdiction of the cause through
this order of tifansfer?
It cannot be doubted that the cause was removed to the
Circuit Court by the appeal from the decree of the District
Court in 1863. Thai decree was vacated by the appeid, and
the Circuit Court acquired full jurisdiction of the cause. It
might, in its discretion,.make orders for fufther proof, and
was fully authorized to proceed to final'hearing and decree,
in all respects, as if the cause had been originally instituted
in that court. Nor can it be doubted that, under the Constitution, this court can exercise, in prize causes, appellate
jurisdiction only. An appellate jurisdiction necessarily implies some judicial determination, some judgment, decree, or
order of an inferior tribunal, from which an appeal has been
taken. But in this case there had been no such order, judgment, or decree in the Circuit Court; and there was no subsisting decree in the District Court, from which an appeal
could be taken. We are 6bliged to conclude that, in the
provision'for transfer, an attempt was inadvertently made to
give to this court a jurisdiction withheld by the Constitution,
and, consequently, that the order of transfer was without
effect. The 'cause is still depending in the Circuit Court.
We must decline, therefore, to. make an order to docketand
dismiss the. appeal; but this opinion may be
CERTIFIED TO THAT COURT FOR INFORMATION.

