Dec. 1868.]

KNDALI, V. UNITED STArES.

Statement of the casr.

statute of 14 Edward III, upon a division of the judges of
the court below, the practice, as we have stated, is different.
But on writs of error it is similar to that followed by this
court. Such, also, is the practice of the House of Lords
when sitting as a court of appeals. It is said that this practice depends upon the manner in which the Lords put the
question, which is always in this form: -Shall this judgment,
or decree, be reversed? But that is the question in all appellate courts, and the particular manner in which the question is stated, cannot change the rule of law on the subject.*
The statement which always accompaiiies a judgment in
such case, that it is rendered by a divided court, is only intended to show that. there was a division among the judges
upon the questions of law or fact involved, not that there
was any disagreement as to the judgment to' be entered upon
such division. It serves to explain the absence of any opinion
in the cause, and prevents the decision from becoming an
authority for other cases df like character. But the judgment is as conclusive and binding in every respect upon the
parties as if rendered upon the'concurrence of all the judges
upon every question involvedjin the case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

KENDALL V. UNITED STATES.
A claim which has never received the assent of the person against whom ii
is asserted, and which remains to be settled by negotiation or suit at
law, cannot be so assigned as to give the assignee an equitable right to
prevent the original parties from compromising or adjusting the claim
on any terms that may suit them.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
A. and J. Kendall made an agreement, in the year 1843,
with persons representing a branch of the Cherokee tribe of
Indians, called the Western Cherokees, to prosecute a claim
See Bridge v. Johnson, 5 Wendell, 872.
VOL. VII.

8

KENDALL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sqp. Ct

Statement of the case.

which these Indians set up against 'the 'United States. It
was a part of the agreement that the Kendalls were to receive, directly from the United States,.5 per cent. upon all
sums that might be collected on the claim.
The justice of this claim, which it was thus agreed that
the Kendalls should prosecute, had never been acknowledged by the United States, and the amount of it was uncertain. A treaty was finally made, in 1846, not with ,the
Western Cherokees, who were but a part of the Cherokee
tribe, but with the whole tribe and it embraced not only
the claim set up by the Western Cherokees, but many other
matters, settling matters between the United States and the
tribe, as also between the Western Cherokees and the main
body. The treaty, as finally ratified by the Senate and by the
tribe, provided that the sum of money found due (and which
included moneys to the main tribe), should be held intrust
by the United States, and paid out to each individual Indian,
or head of a family, and that this per'capitaallowance should
not be assignable, but should be paid directly to the person
so entitled. On the 80th 'September, f850, Congress made
an appropriation of the amount necessary to fulfil this treaty,
and the act' contained a provision that no part of the money
should be paid to any agents of said Indians, or to any other person than the Indian to whom'it was due.
The Kendalls having thus failed to get anything from the
appropriations, presented a petition to the Court of Claims.
They det forth in it the fact and history of the treaty, the
great labor which they bad had, and the value of which their
services had been in procuring the treaty and appropriation
(with interest, about $887,000); all, as they alleged, due to
those services. That they had repeatedly given specific notice to Congress and to its committees, and to all proper
officers of the government, of the contract made by them
with the Indians, and of their claim under it, and of the justice of the same.
There was no answer or evidence produced on the other
side.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition.

Dec. 1868.]

KENDALL V. UNITED STATES.
Arguments for the appellants and appellee,

Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson,for the appellants:
1. The contract and order given by the Indians operated
as a valid assignment of one-twentieth part of the amoun
due theIndians;* it being settled that, in equity, an order
given by .a debtor to his creditor, upoi a third person,
having funds of the debtor, to pay the creditor out of such
funds, is a binding equitable assignment of so much of the
fund;t and these rights of assignees being recognized and
protected in courts of law.1
2. N~either the treaty oft 1846, nor the act of 1850, prohibited the payment of this claim. It is true that there are
in the ,treaty provisions intended to secure to the Indian
himself the amount due t6 him; but, while the treaty prohibits payment to any agent of an Indiai, and prohibits,
prospectively, any assignment of the share of any Indian, it,
is silent as to any existing assignment, -and uses no words
applicable to an assignment made by the body of the tribe
out of the gross sum. The act of 1850 is more comprehensive in its language, but it was made simply to -carry
into effect the -treaty, and its terms are to be construed in
connection, with the treaty itself.
Mr. Dickey, Assistant Attorney-General, contra:
1. The pretended.assignment, by the Indians, of a portion
of their claim, could not, if valid, be enforced in a court'of
law.ยง
The Coulrt of Claims has no equity jurisdiction.1
2. The assignment was not valid unless recognized to be
so by the United States.
Smith & Everett, 4 Brown's Oh. 64; Lett & Morris, 4 Simons, 607;
Morton v. Naylor, 1 Hill (If. Y.), 583; Watson v. Duke of Wellington, I
Russell & Mylne, 605:
t Bui'n v. Carvalho, 4 Mylne & Craig, 699.
$ Littlefleld v. Storey, 3 Johnson, 426; Prescott v. Hull, 17 Id. 284;
Wheeler v. Wheeler, 9 Cowen, 84.
Mandeville v. Welch, 5 Wheaton, 286; Tiernan et al. v. Jackson, 6
Peters, 697,
United States v. ,Alire, 6 Wallace, 575.
The Cherokee Nation v. The. State of Georgia, 5 Peters, 16.

KENDALL V.

U(NITED

STATES.

TSup. Ct.-

Opinion of the court.

8. The treaty of 1846, and the act of 1850, prohibited the
payment of this claim.
The justice or injustice of this action of the government,
is not a matter for the consideration of the Court of Claims.
The case of the appellants stands upon the legal effect of
their agreement with the Indians, and there is nothing in it
which can override the action of the treaty-making and the
law-making powers of the government.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
As the case was decided on demurrer, or what is equivalent to a demurrer, the statements of the petition must be
taken to be true. They show a faithful and laboribus performance of their contract by the plaintiffs, for which no
compensation was ever received.
It is insisted by plaintiffs, that because the government
of the United States was aware of the contract between them
and the Indians, and failed to reserve and pay over to them
the five per cent. which by that contract they had a right to
claim of the Indians, the United States is liable to them for
the amount. it is supposed that the doctrine of al equitable
assignment of a debt or fund due from one person to another,
by the order of the creditor to pay it to a third party, when
brought to the notice of the debtor, is a sufficient foundation
for the claim. But, if we concede that the government is to
be treated in the prese 't case precisely as a private individual, it is not easy to SE how that doctrine can be made to
apply. The debt or fu ^I as to which such an equitable.assignment can be made, iust be some recognized or definite
fund or debt, in the hands of a person who admits the obligation to pay the assignor; or, at least, it must be some liquidated demand, capable of being enforced in a court of justice.
We apprehend that the doctrine has never been held, that a
claim of no fixed amount, nor time, or mode of payment; a
claim which has never received the assent of the person
against whom it is asserted, and which remains to be settled
by negotiation or suit at law, can be so assigned as to give the
assignor an equitable right to prevent the original parties

Dec. 1&t%.J

KiND.ALL V'. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

fiom compromising or adjusting the claiia on any-terms that
may suit them. That is just what.is claimed in ihis case.
For it is very clear that if this equitable claim in the hands
of plaintiffs was not effectual before the treaty, it can have no
effect afterwards.
The treaty, by its terms, is incompatible with the claim
of plaintiffs. None of the money-could be paid to the plaintiffs if all of it was to be paid to the Indians individually, in
proportions to be determined by their numbers.
,This principle of paying to the Indians per capita was not
adopted with any reference to the plaintiffs' claimn as a means
of exclusion. The treaty was made with the entire tribe of
Cherokees, of which these Western Cherokees were but a,
small part; and the claims which they were urging on our
government constitute a still smaller part of the matters setAed by the treaty.
Land claims were adjusted, the difficulties between this
branbh and the main body of the tribe were arranged. Other
payments were made to the main tribe, in which the rule of
paying per capita-was adopted. Now, the argument assumes
that unless in adjusting all these important ihterests the
United States kept in view the 'sum'to be paid to plaintiffs,
by their contract with. the.Indians, and provided for it, they
must either make no treaty at all, or must pay their claim.
It cannot be permitted that by contracting With other parties, without requiring or asking .the consent of the government, any one can establish such a right to control the action
of that government in making treaties or contracts.
The claim of the Western Indians was nothing more than
a claim prior to the treaty. Its justice had never been admitted. Its umount was uncertain. These, together with
the mode of payment; were all unsettled, and open to negotiation. Is it possible, that by making a contract with claimants to prosecute this demand- against the government, the
plaintiffs thereby acquired such a hold on that government,
as not only made the claim good to that extent, but prevented
it from compromising or settling with the claimants on the
best terms to be obtained?

COWLES V. MERCER COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

We have no hesitation in saying that the United States,
under the circumstances, had the right to make the treaty
that was made, without consulting plaintiffs, or iucurring
any liability to them. The act of Congress which appropriated the money, only followed the treaty ii securing its payment to the individual Indians, without deduction for agents.
And both the act and the treaty are inconsistent with the
payment of any part of the sum thus appropriated to plaintiffs.
The judgment of the Court of Claims, rejecting the demand, is therefore
AFFIRMED.

COWLES V.

MERCER COUNTY.

I., A municipal corporation created by one State within its own limits may
be sued in the courts of the United States by the citizens of another
State.

2. The statutes of a State limiting the jurisdiction of suits against counties
to Circuit Courts held within such counties can have no application to
courts of the National government.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, the case being thus
A statute of Illinois enacts by one section that, "Each
county established in the State shall be a body politic and
corporate, by the name and style of ' The County of -;'
and by that name may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, defend and be defended aganst, in any court of
record, either in law or equity, or other place where justice
shall be administered ;" and by another, that "All actions,
local or transitory, against any county, may be commenced
and prosecuted to final judgment and execution in the Circuit Court of the county against which the action is brought."*
And the Supreme Court of Illinois has decided that a
county can neither -sue or be sued at common law, independent of legislative provisions, and have construed the
* Revised Laws, 1845,

1, 18.

