Dec. 1868.]

UNITED

STATES

v.

GILMORE.

Syllabus.

When the escheat was perfected, the legal title to the
entire property was vested in the State; but as the State,
through its auditor, had bargained with Monroe to concede
a moiety to him for his services, it ,follows that the State
was under obligations to convey, in sone proper form, this
moiety to him. This left the State the undisputed owner
of one-half the property, with such power of disposition as
the legislature, in its wisdom, should see proper to give it.
The act in question does not attempt to interfere with any
privilege which belonged to Monroe, and we have no right
to presume it was passed with' any such intention. It does
not profess to grant to the Corbins any particular estate, but
simply releases tq them whatever interest the State had to
the property they occupied, and as the State undoubtedly
had an interest in it to the extent of one moiety, how can it
be said that the obligation of the contract between the audia
tor and Monroe was impaired by this statute?
The statute operated rightfully on' the moiety owned by
the State, and there is no authority for saying the legislatutre meant to do anything more.
It is not our province to decide any other point in this
case, and as the act of the legislature of Kentucky does not,
either in terms or by necessary implication, impair the obligation of the auditor's contract with Monroe, it follows that
the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be
-AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. GILMORE ET AL.
1. Before a depositary of public money can, in a suit against him by the,
United States for a balance, offer proof of credits for clerk hire, he
must show by evidence from the books of the treasury-a transcript
of the proceedings of the officers being a proper form of such evidencethat a claim for such credits had been presented to the proper officers of
the treasury (that is to say, to the first auditor, and afterwards to the
first comptroller for his final decision), and by them had been, in whole
or in part, disallowed.
2. If proof of such credits have been permitted to go to the jury without

UNITED

STATES V.

GILMORE.

r[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
such proper foundation for it having been first laid, it must be auterwards excluded, and all consideration of the claims withdrawn from
their consideration. To allow them to remain, even with instructions
whose purpose was to control and cure its effect, or with any instructions
short of withdrawal, is error.
B. Whether testimony in support of such claims was properly in the case,
was a question for the court and not for the jury.

ElRROR to the Circuit Court for Nebraska; the case having
been submitted by Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney-General,for
the United Slates.
No argument on the other side.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
This is an action of debt upon the bond of Gilmore, one
of the defendants in error, as receiver of public moneys "for
the district of lands subject to sale in the Territory of Nebraska," and also as a depositary of public moneys.
Upon the trial the defendants claimed a credit for the hire
of certain clerks employed by Gilmore as such depositary,
and offered proof in support of the demand. The attorney
of the United States objected to the admission of the evidence upon several grounds. One of them was, that it must
first be shown that the claim had been exhibited to the
proper accounting officer of the treasury and disallowed,
and that the exhibition and disallowance could be proved
only by the certificate of such officer. "Whereupon the
court stated it would permit the evidence, and control the
matter by instruC.tions to the jury. Objections overruled,
and ruling excepted to by plaintiffHs."
Tie same things occurred with reference to a claim for
office rent, set up by Gilmore as such depositary.
Gilmore subsequently testified as follows:
" I presented these claims to the accounting officer, and they
were disallowed."

To what officer they were presented is not disclosed.
This is all the testimony the bill of exceptions contains upon
the subject.

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED STATES

v.

GILMORE.

Opinion of the court.

The statutory provisions prescribing what shall be done,
by the debtor in such cases are found in the 4th section of
the act of March 3d, 1797.* That section, so far as it is material to be considered in the case before us, is as follows:
"In suits between the United States and individuals, no claim
for a credit shall be admitted upon the trial but such as shall
appear to have been presented to the accounting officers of the
treasury for their examination, and by them disallowed in whole'
or in part."
Those officers were then the auditor and comptroller.
There was but one of each at that time.t It was made the
duty of the auditor "to receive all public accounts, and after
examination to transmit the accounts, with the vouchers and
certificate, to the comptroller for his decision thereon."
The act of the 25th of April, 1812,1 created the General
Land Office, and transferred to the commissioner the dutie s
of the auditor in respect to all accounts relating to the public
lands. The act of March 3d, 1817,ยง created four additional
auditors andl one additional oomptroller. It gave the charge
of all accounts accruing in the Treasury Department to the
first auditor, and made it his duty to report them to the first
comptroller. The language employed is the same as that
used in the actof 1797. This did not affect the duties of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office as to all accounts
relating to the public lands. which the act of 1812 had dvolved upon him.
Receivers and depositaries are required to keep accounts
of their contingent expenses. Those accounts are separate
apid distinct from those of their receipts and disbursements
of the public moneys. Where the offices of receiver and depositary are united in the same person, the expense accounts
of the two offices are nevertheless required to be kept separately from each, other.
The claims in question in the case before us grew out of
* 1 Stat. at Large, 615.

2 Stat. at Large, 716.

t Act of September 2, 1789, Id. 66.
j 3 Id. 366.

UNITED STATES

v.

GILMORE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of t1le court.

that branch of Gilmore's duties which related to his office
of depositary, and had no connection with his office of receiver. They should, therefore, have been presented to the
first auditor for examination, and afterwards to the first
comptroller for his final decision. If disallowed, the dis.
allowances would have appeared in the "statement of the
differences of account" transn.itted by the auditor to the
comptroller with the accounts, vouchers, and certificate, as
required by the statute. If the comptroller had confirmed
the decision of the auditor, a transcript of the proceedings
of those officers would have been the proper evidence for
the defendants to produce.
If the claims were not presented until after the account
was closed upon the books of the treasury, still it was necessary to submit them for examination to both those officers.
The action of both was necessary. A transcript showing
that action would have been sufficient. Parol evidence in
such cases is wholly inadmissible. Evidence from the books
of the treasury in some form is indispensable.
These remarks have no application to those provisions of
the section under consideration which have not been referred to.
The court should not have permitted any proof of the
claims to be given until the proper foundation for it had
been laid. When the defendants failed to produce the evidence necessary to warrant the introduction of such testimony, all which had been given should have been excluded,
and the claims withdrawn from the consideration of the
jury. To allow them to remain in the case was an error,
and any instruction given afterwards, short of their withdrawal, ws unavailing to cure it. The course proposed to
be pursued when the objection by the district attorney was
taken, could hardly fail, unler any circumstances, to mis.
lead and confuse, and to prevent the proper trial of the
'cause. The object of pleading is to concentrate the controversy upon the questions of fact and of law, which should
control the result. The value of the system in the administration of justice can hardly be too highly estimated. The

Dec.'1868.]

UNITED STATES V.- GILMORE:
Opinion of the court.

exclusion from the testimony of everything irrelevant and
incompetent is not less important.
Was the error committed by the admission of the testimony objected to subsequently remedied?
Nothing further upon the subject appears in the record
but the following 'passages at the close of the bill of excep.
tions:
"The plaintiff requested the court to charge the jury as follows:
"1st.' That in this action no claim for credit can be admitted
as a defence, unless it is 'first shown to the jury that such claim
was presented to the proper officer of the government for examination, and by such officer disallowed in whole. or in part;
or that the defendant, Gilmore, first shows that he was pre'vented from exhibiting such claim or account 6f expenses at
the treasury by absence from the United States, or some unavoidable accident."
* Another instruction, not material to be stated, was alsq
asked.

The bill then proceeds:.

"Which said two points were not given by the court in the
form requested, but were substantially given in the oral charge
of the court to the jury. The first point and the second were
,given with a modification, to'which the plaintiffs then and there
excepted."
What the modification of the first instruction was to which
this exception relates is .not shown. We cannot, therefore,
consider it.
Whether the testimony in support of the claim was properly in the case was a question for the iourt, and not for the
jury. Yet it was left to the latter for them to determine.
It is clear that the incompetent testimony which had been
admitted was not withdrbwn from their consideration.

The judgment is, therefore,

REVERSED,

and the cause will

be remanded to the Circuit Court With instructions to issue a
VENIRE DE NOVO.

