OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS

CALIFORNIA v. PRYSOCK
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-834 (80-1846).

Decided April 24, 1981

An application by California to stay, pending the filing and disposition of
a petition for certiorari, the California Court of Appeal's judgment reversing respondent's criminal conviction on the ground that he had not
been properly advised of his right to the services of a free attorney
before and during police interrogation that resulted in incriminating
statements which were admitted at trial, is granted. The Court of
Appeal apparently concluded that although respondent had been told of
his right to have a lawyer present before questioning and of his right
to have a lawyer appointed, as required by Miranda v. Arizona, 384
U. S. 436, the warnings were inadequate because of the order in which
they had been given.
JUSTICE REHNQuiST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant, the State of California (hereafter State), seeks
a stay of the judgment of the California Court of Appeal
(Fifth Appellate District) in this case after the Supreme
Court of California denied the State's petition for hearing
on March 17, 1981, with Justices Mosk and Richardson
expressing the view that the petition should be granted. Because it appeared to be common ground between the Court
of Appeal which ruled against the State, the State, and other
courts which have spoken to the question of the applicability
of Mirandav. Arizona, 384 U. S.436 (1966), that its precision
was one of its great virtues, I entered a temporary stay of the
order of the Court of Appeal in view of the strict California
speedy-trial requirements in order that I might consider in
more detail the application, the response, and the decided
cases on the issue.
1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1980

Opinion in Chambers

451 U. S.

The facts may be briefly stated. The victim was brutally
murdered on January 30, 1978. She was struck with a
wooden dowel, bludgeoned with a fireplace poker, stabbed
with an ice pick, and finally strangled with a telephone cord.
On the evening of the murder respondent, a minor, was arrested along with a codefendant. He was brought to a substation of the Tulare County Sheriff's Department and advised of his Miranda rights. He declined to talk and, since
he was a minor, his parents were notified. Respondent's parents arrived, and after meeting with them respondent decided
to answer police questions. An officer questioned respondent,
on tape, with respondent's parents present. Respondent was
advised of his constitutional rights. The tape reflects the
following warnings regarding the right to counsel:
"Sgt. Byrd: You have the right to talk to a lawyer
before you are questioned, have him present with you
while you are being questioned, and all during the questioning. Do you understand this?
"Randall P.: Yes.
"Sgt. Byrd: You also, being a juvenile, you have the
right to have your parents present, which they are. Do
you understand this?
"Randall P.: Yes.
"Sgt Byrd: Even if they weren't here, you'd have this
right. Do you understand this?
"Randall P.: Yes.
"Sgt. Byrd: You all, uh, - if, - you have the right
to have a lawyer appointed to represent you at no cost
to yourself. Do you understand this?
"Randall P.: Yes.
"Sgt. Byrd: Now, having all these legal rights in mind,
do you wish to talk to me at this time?
"Randall P.: Yes."
Respondent thereafter made incriminating statements which
were admitted at trial. He was convicted of first-degree

CALIFORNIA v. PRYSOCK

1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

murder with two special circumstances of torture and robbery,
robbery, burglary, auto theft, destruction of evidence, and
escape from a juvenile camp. He was sentenced to life
imprisonment.
The Court of Appeal reversed on the ground that respondent was not properly advised of his right to the services of a
free attorney before and during interrogation. Although
respondent was informed that he had "the right to talk to a
lawyer before you are questioned, have him present while you
are being questioned, and all during the questioning," and
"the right to have a lawyer appointed to represent you at no
cost to yourself," the Court of Appeal ruled that these warnings were inadequate because respondent was not informed
of his right to have an attorney appointed before further
questioning.
The Court of Appeal stated:
"It is not for this Court to overrule Miranda,disparage
it, nor extend it. Its meaning is clear. It has stood the
test of time. Law enforcement practices have adjusted
to its strictures. One of its virtues is its precise requirements which are so easily met." App. A to Application 7.
The Court of Appeal went on to quote from a recent decision
of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
sitting en bane in Harrymanv. Estelle, 616 F. 2d 870, 873-874,
cert. denied, 449 U. S. 860 (1980), to the following effect:
"'The rigidity of the Miranda rules and the way in
which they are to be applied was conceived of and continues to be recognized as the decision's greatest strength.
E. g., Tague v. Louisiana, [444] U. S. [469] (1980);
Mirandav. Arizona, 384 U. S., at 479 ....

v. Michael C., 439 U. S. 1310, 1314 ...

See also Fare

(1978) (REHN-

QUIST, J., on application for stay) (calling rigidity of

Mirandaits single "core virtue"). The decision's rigidity
has afforded police clear guidance on the acceptable man-

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

451 U. S.

ner of questioning an accused. It has allowed courts to
avoid the intractable factual determinations that the
former totality of the circumstances approach often entailed. When a law enforcement officer asks a question
of an accused and the accused, without the benefit of
Miranda'ssafeguards, answers, the totality of the circumstances is irrelevant. The accused's answer is simply
inadmissible at trial as part of the prosecution's case in
chief.'" App. A to Application 7-8.
In Harryman v. Estelle, however, the defendant was asked
and answered a question before being given any Miranda
warnings at all. Fare v. Michael C., 442 U. S. 707 (1979),
considered whether a minor's request to talk with his probation officer should be treated for Miranda purposes in the
same manner as a request to consult with an attorney, and the
Court held that it should not. The case did not consider the
content of Miranda warnings. Neither did Tague v. Louisiana, 444 U. S. 469 (1980) (per curiam), which reversed a
decision upholding a conviction when "no evidence at all was
introduced to prove that petitioner knowingly and intelligently
waived his rights." Id., at 471. In short, none of the decisions cited for the proposition that the rigidity of Miranda
is its great virtue support the proposition that the desirable
rigidity extends to the precise formulation of the warnings.
The decision of the Court of Appeal in this case may, in
the name of advancing Miranda's virtue of rigidity and precision' have transformed the Mirandawarnings into a ritualistic
formalism. Respondent was told of his right to have a lawyer
present before questioning, and of his right to have a lawyer
appointed. The Court of Appeal seems to have held that
the warnings were inadequate because of the order in which
they were given.
Applying the relevant factors, see Fare v. Michael C.,
439 U. S. 1310, 1311 (1978) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers),

CALIFORNIA v. PRYSOCK
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

I have decided to issue the requested stay. The request for
a stay of the judgment of the California Court of Appeal
pending the timely filing of a petition for writ of certiorari
and final determination of the case by this Court is accordingly granted.

