McDANIEL v. BARRESI
Syllabus

McDANIEL,

SUPERINTENDENT
ET AL.

V.

BARRESI

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME

OF SCHOOLS,

ET AL.
COURT OF GEORGIA

No. 420. Argued October 13, 1970-Decided April 20, 1971
The Board of Education of Clarke County, Ga. (with a two-to-one
white-Negro elementary school system ratio), devised a student
assignment plan for desegregating elementary schools which establishes geographic zones drawn to promote desegregation and also
provides that pupils in heavily concentrated Negro "pockets"
walk or go by bus to schools in other attendance zones. Th;
resulting Negro elementary enrollment ranges from 20% to 40%
in all but two schools, where it is 50%. Respondent parents sued
to enjoin the plan's operation. The state trial court denied an
injunction. The Georgia Supreme Court reversed, holding that
the plan violated (1) equal protection because it "[treated]
students differently because of their race," and (2) the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, because Title IV prohibits a school board from
requiring busing to achieve a racial balance. Held:
1. In compliance with its duty to convert to a unitary system,
the school board properly took race into account in fixing the
attendance lines. P. 41.
2. Title IV, a direction to federal officials, does not restrict state
officials in assigning students within their systems. Pp. 41-42.
226 Ga. 456, 175 S. E. 2d 649, reversed.
BURGER, C.

J., delivered the'opinion for a unanimous Court.

Eugene A. Epting argued the cause and filed a brief

for petitioners.
E. Freeman Leverett argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed by Solicitor General
Griswold and Assistant Attorney General Leonard for
the United States, and by Arthur K. Bolton, Attorney
General, Harold N. Hill, Jr., Executive Assistant Attorney General, and Alfred L. Evans, Jr., and J. Lee Perry,
Assistant Attorneys General, for the State .of Georgia.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER

402 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
We granted certiorari in this case to review a state
court order enjoining the operation of a school desegregation plan. The action was brought in the Superior
Court of Clarke County, Georgia, by parents of children
attending public elementary schools in that county.
Named as defendants were the Superintendent of Education and members of the Clarke County Board of Education. The trial court denied respondents' request for
an injunction, but on appeal the Supreme Court of
Georgia reversed, 226 Ga. 456, 175 S.E. 2d 649 (1970).
This Court then granted certiorari, 400 U. S.804 (1970).
Beginning in 1963, the Clarke County Board of Education began a voluntary program to desegregate its
public schools. The student-assignment plan presently
at issue, involving only elementary schools, has been in
effect since the start of the 1969 academic year. The
plan, adopted by the Board of Education and approved
by the "Department of Health, Education, and Welfare,'
relies primarily upon geographic attendance zones drawn
to achieve greater racial balance. Additionally, the
pupils in five heavily Negro "pockets" either walk or are
transported by bus to schools located in other attendance
zones.2 As a consequence the Negro enrollment of each
1 It may well be that the Board of Education adopted the present
student-assignment plan because of urgings of federal officials and
fear of losing federal financial assistance. The state trial court, h6wever, made no findings on these matters. No federal officials are
parties in this case.
2 Where the distance between the student's residence and his assigned school is more than 11/2 miles, free transportation is provided.
There is no challenge here to the feasibility of the transportation
provisions of the plan. The annual transportation expenses of
the present plan are reported in the record to be $11,070 less than
the school system spent on transportation during the 1968-1969
school year under dual operation.

McDANIEL v. BARRESI
39

Opinion of the Court

elementary school in the system varies generally between
20% and 40%, although two schools have a 50% Negro
enrollment. The white-Negro ratio of elementary pupils
in the system is approximately two to one.
Respondents contend in this action that the board's
desegregation plan violates the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Federal Constitution and Title IV of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964. The Supreme Court of Georgia
upheld both contentions, concluding first that the plan
violated the Equal Protection Clause "by treating students differently because of their race." The court concluded also that Title IV prohibited the board from
"requiring the transportation of pupils or students from
one school to another . . .in order to achieve such racial
balance . . . ." We reject these contentions.
The Clarke County Board of Education, as part of its
affirmative duty to disestablish the dual school system,
properly took into account the race of its elementary
school children in drawing attendance lines. To have
done otherwise would have severely hampered the board's
ability to deal effectively with the task at hand. School
boards that operated dual school systems are "clearly
charged with the affirmative duty to take whatever steps
might be necessary to convert to a unitary system in
which racial discrimination would be. eliminated root and
branch." Green v. County School Board, 391 U. S.430,
437-438 (1968). In this remedial process, steps will
almost invariably require that students be assigned "differently because of their race." See Swann v. CharlotteMecklenburg Board of Education, ante, p. 1; Youngblood v. Board of Public Instruction, 430 F. 2d 625, 630
(CA5 1970). Any other approach would freeze the status
quo that is the very target of all desegregation processes.
Nor is the board's plan barred by Title
IV of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964. The sections relied upon by
respondents (42 U. S. C. §§ 2000c (b), 2000c-6) are di-

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1970
Opinion of the Court

402 U. S.

rected only at federal officials and are designed simply
to foreclose any interpretation of the Act as expanding
the powers of federal officials to enforce the Equal Protection Clause. ,Swann, supra, at 17. Title IV clearly
does not restrict state school authorities in the exercise
of their discretionary powers to assign students within
their school systems.
Reversed.

