JANUARY TERM 1830.

JoHN CrAY, PL&IiTP fNl EnROiR .tm. ABRaHAx SmTE.
The plaintiff belowi a citizen of thestate of Kentucky,. instituted a suit against
the-defendant,..a citizen of Louisiana, for the recovery of a debt incirieil in
1808, and the defendant pleaded his discharge by the bankrupt law of Loutsisna in 1811 ; under which, according to the provisions of the law, "as well
his person'as his future effects" were for everdischarged "from all the claima
of his treditors." .Under this law, the plaintiff, whose debt was specified in
the list of the defendant's.creditors, received a dividend If ten per cent on his
debt, declared by the assighees of the defendant. Held, that the plaintiff, by
voluntrily, making bimself.a ps~ty to those proceedings, abandbned his extraterritorial immunity from theoperation of the bankrupt lawof Louisiana; and
was bouud by that law to the same extent to which the citizens o4 Louislana
were bound.
The plaintfff in error havingfied while the caose was held under advisement,
the-judgment was entered nune pro tunc, as on the first day of this term.

ERROR to.,the district court of the eastern district:of
Louisiana.
This -case was argued at January term 1828f by'r LW-.
ingstoniand was held under advisement until this ten; on
.the suggestion of counsel, and for information &apon the law
of the state'of Louisiana, Xeferred to in.the opinion of the
court.

Mr Justice JousoN. deivered-the opinion of the Court;
This case comes up from the Louisiana district, by' writ'
of error, to reverse a judgment obtained there by Smith vs.
Clay,
Smith, is a citizen of Kentucky; and Clay, of. Louisiana;
and the action was brought t6 recover a debt incurred in the
year 1$08.
Clays idefence rests upon the validity of a discharge obtained in a court of 'the state, under a lawrof the state, in.
the year 1811. The plea sets out his petition to the court;
his surrender of his.effects;. the schedule of his debts, ill
which Smith'i debt is specified, as also the payment to him
of ten per cent, the -dividend declated by the:assignees of

SUPREME COURT.
[Clay Vi. Smith.]

the bankrupt; Eind the judgment of the court, rendered in
pursuance of the consent of more than- a majority of his creditors. in number' and amount, that he be discharged, "as
well his person as his future effects. from. all the claimi of
his creditors." The"].anguage of the plea.is, "upon which
said petition, the usual proceedings being had thereon, the
said plaintiff and other creditors. and said defendant being
parties thereto,- the said supreme court by their final decree
pronounced in the premises, on the 15th of June '1811, declared the said defendant, as well his person as his subsequently acquired'property and efects, for ever-released from
all claims, debts, and demands," &c. previously due.
This plea is demurred to, and thus the question is raised,
whether Smith, by voluntarily making himself party to such
proc'eedings, has not abanaoned his exfra-territorial immunity from the operation of the bankrupt laws of Louisiana.
We are of opinion that he did; and was bound by the decision of the state cc art to the same extent to which the
citizens of that state were bound.
Judgment-reversed.
Case remanded, with instructions to enter judgment for
.defendant there.' And in consequence of the death of Clay,
while the cause was held under. advisement, that it be entered, nunc pro tune, as on the first day of this term.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district couit of the United States for the
'district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged, by this court,
thkt the judgment of the said district court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed, and that the cause be, and
the -same is remanded to the said district court, with instructions to the said court to enter judgment for John Clay, the
defendant in said court. And it is further ordered by the
court?'that in consequence of ihe death of the said Clay,
-while this cause was held under advisement, that- judgment
be entered, nunc pro tune, as on the first day of this term.

