JANUARY TERM 1830.

WiLLiAx

PAI1sows,

PLA3rxTnFF ire EmtoR vs. BnDFoiw, BP EDLOVE, ANWD
RoiBESOx, DEFENDANTS.

This action was instituted in the district court of the United States for the eastem district of Louisiana, according to the forms of proceedings adopted and
practised in the courls of that state. The cause was tried by.a-special jury,
and a verdict was rendered for the plaintiff. On the trial, the counsel for the
defendant moved the court 'to direct the clerk of the court to take down in
writing the testimony of the witnesses examined in the cause, thatthe same
might appear on record: such being the practice of the state courts ofLouisiann; and which practice the counsel for the defendant insisted was to prevail
in the courts of the United States, according to the act of congress of the 26th
of May 1824; which provides, that the mode of proceeding in .iviil
6auses, in
the courts of the United States established in Louisiana, shll be conformable
to the laws directing the practice in the district court of the state, subject to
such alterations as the judges of the courts of the United States Whould establish by rules. The court refused to make the order, or to permit the testimony to be put down in writing; the judge expressing the opinion, that the
courts of the United States are not governed by the practice of the courts of
the state of Louisiana. The defendant movedfor a new trial, and the motion
being overruled, and judgmpnt entered for the plaintiff on the verdict, the defendant brought a writ of error to this court.
Upder the laws of Louisiana, on the frial of a cause before ajury" if either party
desirei it, the verbal evidence is to be taken down in writing by the clerk, to
be sent to the supreme.court, to serve as a statement-of facts in case of appeal;
and the written evidence produced on the trial is to be filed with the proceedings. This is done to enable the appellate court-to exercise theyower ofgranting a new trial, and of reoaing theftidgment of the inferiorcourt. Held
that the refusal of the judge of the district court of the United St ates to permit the evidence to be put in writing, could not be assigned for error in this
court, the cause having been tried in the court below, and a verdict given
on the facts by a jury; if the same had been put in writing, and been sent up
to this court with the record, this court, proceeding under the cdnstitution of
the Unitedi States, end of the amendment thereto, which declares, "no fact
once tried by ajury shall be otherwise re-examinabie in -any'courtof the
United State!, than according to the r des of the common law," is not competent to redress any error by granting a new trial.
The proviso in the act of congress of the 26th of May 1824, ch. 181, demonstrates that it was not the intention of congress to give an absolute and imperative force to the state modes of proceeding in civil causes ii Louisiana, in the
courts of the United States; for it authorizes the judge to modify therwsagtoadapt them to the organization of his own courts ; and it further demonstrates
that no absolute repeal was intended of"the -antecedefit modes of proceeding
authorized in the United States courts, under former acts of congress; for it

VoL.III.,3

E

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et al.],
leavps the judge at liberty to make rules, by which discrepancy between the
state laws and the laws of thq United States may be avoided. [444]'
The act of congress having made the praclice of the siate courts the rule for the
courts of the United States inLouisiana, the district court of the United States
in that district is bound to follow the practice of the state; unless that court
.had adopted a rule superseding the practice. [445]
Ginerally speaking, matters of practice in inferior courts do not constitute subjebts upon wvhich eirors can be assigned in-the appellate court. 1445]
The trial by jury is justly dear to the America- people. It has always been an
object of deep interest and solicitude, and every encroachment upon it has
been watched with great jealousy. The right to such a trial isit is-believed,
incorporated into, and secured in every state constitution in the union. [446]
By" common-law," the framers of the constitution of the United States meant,
what the constitutibn denominated in the third article," law ;" not merely suits
which the common law recognized among its old and settled proceedings, but
suiti in which legal rights were to be ascertained and determined, in contradistinction to those where-equitable rights alone were regarded, and equitable remedies were administered; or where, as in the admiralty, a mixture of public
law and'of maritime law and equity was often found in the same suit. [447]
The amendment to the constitution of the United States, by which the trial by
jury was sedured, may, in a just sense, be well construed to embrace all suits
which ara not of equity or admiralty jurisdiction, whatever may be the peculiar formWhich they may assume to settle legal rights. [447]
It wasnot the intention of congress, by the general language of the act of 1824.
to alter the appellate jurisdiction of this cburt, and to confer on it the power
of granting a new trial by a re-examination of the facts tried by a jury; and to
enable it, after trial by jury, to do that, in iespect to the courts of the United
States sitting in Louisiana, which' is denied to such courts sitting'n.all the
other states of the union. [447]
No court ought, unless the terms of an act of congress render it unavoidable,
to kive a construction to the act which should, however unintentional, involve
a violation of the constitution. The'terms of the actof 1824 may well be
.satisfied by |lmiting its operation to modes of practice and proceeding in the
courts below, without'changing-ibe effect or conclusiveness of the verdict Qf
a jury upon the facts litigated on the trial. The piarty mayb'ring the facts into
review before the appellate court, so far as they bear upon qiestions of law,
by a bill of.exceptions. If there be any mistake of the facts, the court below
is competent to redress it, by granting a new trial. [447]

ERROR to the eastern district of Louisiana.
This .suit was originally brought in the parish .court of
Nqw Orleans by the defendats in error, by a petition for an
attachment against thfe properiy of the defendant in the suit;
and was removed into the district couftof the United Stutes
for-the easteri" district 'of touiEw'na, the defendant being a
citizen of- the state of MaSsachusetts.
The object of the suit was the recovery of the amount of
certain sales of 'tobacco,. inade by the-plaintiffs to a certain
-

'JANUARY TE1IM 1830.

435

[Parsons vs.Bedfo d et al.I

Eben Fiske,.represented in the petition. to.be the agentand.
factor of the defendant; and for which he drew bills of exchange ori the defendant, and which billa were refused acceptfince and payfnent. After an answer had been'filed, the
case was submitted to a special jury, and, a verdict was render.ed for the plaintiffs for .$6414.
The proceediigs.in the Case were instituted and conducted according.to the laws of Louisianfa, which conform in a
great degree to the principles and practice-of the civil law.
On the trial, the-plaintiffs produced the.bills'ofexchange
mentioned- in the petition, and many letters written by
the defendant to Fiske,
The defendant introduced, as
testimony, ither letters written, as above; and also the
record of a suit brought by the. plaintiffs against- Fiskb, on
the same bills, in which they charge, on oath, that the sale
was made tojliske, and that he was their debtor; all wlhich
written testimonywas, according to the practice of the' state.
CoUrts, filed in court, and forms part of the record.
The plaintiffs also produced Fiske at a witness, to prove
that he acted only as agent for the defendant, afid to make
him a witness, gave.a full'release of all claims onhim. He
was bbjected to; but the court.overruled the objection, and
a bill of exceptions was tendered and signed.
By the twelfth section of -an act of 'the general assembly
of'Louisiana, passed the 20th of July 1817, entitled an act
" to amend-the several acts pass~d to organize the court of
the state, and for other purposei," it is among other things
enacted,*".that when any cause,'shall be submitted to a jury
*to be tried' the verbal evidenee shall, in all cases where an
appeal lies to the supreme' court, if either party-require it,
and at the time when the witnesses shall be examined, be
taken down in writing by the clerk of the court, in order to
-besent up to the supremecourt, to serve as a statement of
facts in case -ofappeal; and the written evidence produced
by both parties- shall be filed with the proceedings."
By a law of the United States, passed the 26th of May
1824, the mode of practice pursued in the state courts is
directed to be followed in the courts of the United States in
Louisiana.

436

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et Al

Under the provisions of these laws, the defendant applied
to.the court to direct the clerk to take down the verbal proof
offered in the cause, or to suffer his counsel, the counsef
of the plaititiffs, or the witnesses, to take it down; which the
judge refused to do: whereupon a bill of exceptions was
tendered and signed.
A motion was made for a new trial, which was overruled;
and a judgment was entered for the amount of the verdict.
This writ of error was then prosecuted.
-Theplaintiff in error contended:
1. That from the facts apparent on the record, the plaintiffs had no right of action against the defendant, and that
therefore this court will decree a judgment to be entered in
favour of the defenaa. t.
2.. The cburt will, at Idast, xrverse this jddgment, and
award a newtrial, for one or all of the following reasons:
. Because the court refused the evidence t%be put upon
the record.
2. Because the whole question was a question of law, 6.nd
the decision was against law.
S. It is' nat, strictly, a common law proceeding, but a
proceeding under the peculiar .syste'm of Louisiana;: and,
/according to that system, the court has pbwer to reverse the
judgment, under circumstances which would not give it that
power when- the trial had been according to the common
law.
. The case was argued by Mr Livingston and Mr
Webster
def'udants.
for
the
Mr
Jones
for the plaintiff in error, and by
Mr-Livingston and Mr Webster, for the plaintiff in error.
The law of Louisiana, of July 1817, directs that in 'll
jury trials, the verbal evidence shall be reduced to writing,
and put on record. . The law. of congress of the 6th-of May
1824, directs that the practice in the courts of the United
States, in the state of Louisiana, shall be according tQ the
rules of practice in the state courts. Before the law of the
United States of 1803, all causes came up to this court by
writ of error. Under the authority of this law, casbs of
admiralty and of equity jurisdiction .ame up by appeal, and.

.MIUARY

TERM 1830.

EParons i.s. Bedford ot al;]

all cases not embraced by the provisions .of the law, are
yet brought up by writ of' error.
"Theconstitution of.the United States says, "allcontroversies" between citizens of-different states may come to this
court; and by the provisions of the law of 1789, 'the removal
of-.such cases is to take place when the- matter in' dispute
amounts to two thousand dollars. Tfiat law requires a statement of the evidence in -appeals, and in matters of admiralty jurisdiction. It cannot be supposed that there was
any intention to exclude cases'such as the present from the
jurisdiction of this court. It has been the practice for
twenty years, ever since the organization of the courts 'of
the United States in the. state of Louisiana, to bring cases
up from that district.
The proceedings in the courts of Louisiana are by petition and answer. Toointr-oduce the practice of the common
law, into any of the courts qstablished. in that state; Would
be against ,he .feelings and wishes of the whole people of
the stite.. The judges of the courts of the United States
have adopted -the:practice'of the courts of the state. The
position of any one who should come fiom a-'state where the
common law- is not known, as from, Louisiana, and' who
should be required to argue a cause on the common law
alone, in this court, would be extraordinary.
The twenty-second section of the judiciary law of -1789
says, the supreme court shall not reverse a judgment for
error in fact. But' it is claimed, that the seventh amendment of the constitution-of the United. States, which declares that"' no fact tried by ajury'shall be otherwise re-examined -in any court of the Unrted States, than according to
the 'rules of the common law," was not intended to take
away a remedy which was secured by aAaw of the.state of
'Louisiana; and which law is in force in the courts of the
United States, under the provisions of the act of congress
of 1824.
This case cannot come within the amendment. It is a
case not comprehended by it, nor can it have any application
to it. The amendment was adopted when all the proceedings in the courts of the United States, and in the courts of

438

%SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons.s. Bedford et-al.]

the different states; were under the common law; and the
plairtiff in this case has. a complete remedy, independent
of the amendment. It was intended to guard the rights of
citizens, proceeding according to the common law; and it
only provides that the decisions of juries shall not be set
aside except adcording to the common law. How can it
apply or operate in a state wher9 there is n6 common law,
where the forms of proceeding under the common law are
not known or permitted 1 Where terms are used which embrace the case, and justice requires it, the law must be copstrued to embrace it. A constitutional law of th United
States gives the relief the pliintiff asks in this case - the
.amendmeht of the constitution referred to does not take it
away.
There is a rule ot the common law, the effect of which
gives the same remedy as to parties as that which is required
here; and in this case the equivalent" remely would have
been furnished, had the court directed the clerk to take
down in writing the testimony given in this cause. By the
common law practice, all evidence may be gtated under a
bill of exceptions, or the judge may,be called upon to charge
on the law and facts; the facts being stated from-which the
law is supposed to arise. The proceedings in the courts of
Louisiana are substituted for these common law proceedings.
They should have the same estimate, and be treated in the
higher court in the same manner as a bill of exceptions. It
is admitted that in the court below, the case must proceed
according to the state laws : those laws say, the evidence
shall be put in writing by the clerk. The refusal to permit
the clerk to do this was certainly error.
If the laws of the state are not to be the guide, we had
better bave no right of appeal from the courts of Louisiana to
this court. If those laws do not furnish rules of proceeding,
we have no appeals in cases where appeals may come from
other states. Because, in the courts of Louisiana there is
no distinction between common law and equity; and fhere
iannot be one rule in a state court, and another in a federal
court. The principle that no relief shall be given in equity
where there is a plain remedy at law, would interfere mate-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Parsons vs. Bedford .et al.]

rially with proceedings.in the courts of Louisiana. In every
possible case relief is given by a court of law in Lquisiana;
and the distinction between law, and equity is not there
known. To insist'on the establishment of the distinction in
the courts of the United States there, 'would be productive of
grievous injury. It would give, a foreigner one rule of practice and a citizen another. If the forms of the common ldw
must be pursued to secure writs of error and appeals from
the courts of the United States in- Louisiana to this court;
all, the systeni of practice now prevailing in those courts,
under the authority of the law of 18 24,. must be chafnged.
The forms of the comfnQn law, the distinctions between proceedings at law and ill equity,. must be established there.
This will be productive of great- inconvenience, and will
have other-iniUrious effects.
Putting the evidence in writifrg was very important to the
defendant below, as he could have -demurred;' and then this
court would havc had the whole of the evidence before them.
Mr Jones, for the defendant in error.
Where a local practice, such as that of Louisiana, is adapted only to state courts, and not to the courts of the United
States, it will- not extend to the latter courts. The supreme
court of the state of Louisiana may know and.examine the
facts which have been reduced to writing on the trial of
causes in the inferior courts, and decide whether" a new trial
shiduld not have been granted. But no such power exists in
this court. It has no power to look into the facts of the case
tried by a jury,.only for the purpose of deciding on the law
arising on the evidence; and this, when they are properly before the court, but not for the purpose of drawing a conclusion from the facts, different from that. of the jury. The
judiciary law excludes matters 9 f fact from this court, unless
in equity and admiralty causes. This court will never decide
on questions of fact; never on a question of new trial, or
not; and the only possible use of putting the evidence in
writing, in this case, would have been to present the question'of a new trial. This court takes no cognizance of any
fact, sitting as a court of common law. A compliance or

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons ts. Bedford et al.]

non-compliance of the court below with the defendant's
prayer, could neither affect the judgment of the court below,
or of this court; the judgment here must be. the same, whether the evidence was recorded or not.. There was therefore
no error of which this court .can take iotice in the proceedings below. The proceedings are said not to be according
to the common law,,but to the- Iaw of Louisiana, Which is
said to differ from the common law; and yet we find the
trial by jury established, which is the great foundation and
first principle and essence of a common law trial, be the
forms of the process what they may. Trial by jury carries
with it Eill the incidents of a common law trial. The Verdict
of the jury upon the facts is conclusive in every court, unilless set aside by the court before which the cause was tried.
This court will not reverse all its functions, because the
courts -of the United States in Louisiana adopt the state
practice. The judiciary act says, all trials in issues of-fact,
shall be by jury ; this court will not say, as a rule of practice,
there shall be no trial by jury according to the principles
of 'the. common law in the courts of the Ufiited States of
Louisiana. As Louisiana has adopted the trial by jury, it
must have all its attributes in that-state.
The purpose and meaning of the twenty-second section of
the judiciary act, was toeexclude this cburt in all cases from
deciding on a question 1f fact. Error in fact, imeans an error
in.deciding qi a question offact.. The difference between
a writ of error and"an'tippeal is very,familiar. Appeals, ex
vi teimini men,'the bringing up of every matter. pending in
the court below. A writ of error only reaches errors of law,
and has nothing to do-with questiohs of fact.
'If the law of 1824 imposed on tne court the duty of recording ;the parol evidence, is it assignable for error!
Could.it by any possibility have varied the judgment of the:
court below, or of this court 9 If it could not, there can
be no cause of revershl, as no injury has been done to the
* plaintiff in error. This court will not visit the party with a
reversal of the judgment of the district.court, when in the
judgment there is no error; although they may compel the
"court below to record the evidence.

JA'NUARY TERM 1830.'
tPars9ns vs. Bedford et aL.]

Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the district court of the United
States for the eastern-district of Louisiana.
The facts discldsed on the record are -substantially as
follows:
The suit-was originally commenced by an attachment,
brought i zhe parish court of New Orleans, and removed, on
the petiilon of defehdant, into the digtrict court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana: the plaintiffs
being citizens of Louisiana, and the defendant a citizep of
Massachusetts.
'The petition of the plaintiffs set outt the ground of their
action to be certain sales of tobacco, made by them to one
Eben Fiske, as the factor and agent of the defendant, and
for his acc6unt, at New Orleans, iQ June and July 1825
and certain bills of exchange drawn in their favour by Fiske
at New Orleans, on the defendant at Boston, at several dates
from the 2d to the 20th of July 1825, for the amounts of such
gales. The defendant's answer (filed in the district court
after the removal of the cause from the parish court) contains a general traverse of the allegations of the plaintiffs'
petition, and tenders an issue, tantamount to the general
issue of nil debet. The answer concludes with a petition of
reconvention for ten thousand dollars damages. Upon this
issue the cause was tried in the district court, by consent of
parties, before a special jury, in March 1826, and a -verdict
passed against the defendant; who moved the'court for a new
trial; 'which motion was,overruled by the court, and final
judgment rendered on the verdict against the defendant, who
thereupon sued out this writ of error. The record presents
two bills of exceptions on the-part of the defendant, now
plaintiff' in error.
First bill of exceptions. Fiske, having first received from
the plaintiffs a full and absolute release (which recites that
the plaintiffs had dealt with him as the factor and agent of
the defendant, and upon the credit and responsibility of the
latter alone,) from all liability to them on the contract of
sale and as drawer of the bills, was produced as a witness on
the part of the plaintiffs to prove that he had purchased the
VOL. 111.-3 F

SUPREME COtRT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford-et al.]

tobacco as agent for the defendant. An objection on the
part of the defendant to the.competency of Fiske, on, the
ground of interest, was overruled by the court.
Second bill of exceptions. The defendant moved the court
to direct the clerk of the court to take down in writing the
testimony of the several witnesses examined by the respective parties, in order that the dame might appear of re-o;d
such being the practice of the several courts of the state of
Louisiana, according to the constitution and laws thereof,
and such being the rule of practice, in the opinion of the
counsel for defendant, to be pursued in this court, according to the act of congress of the 26th of May 1824. But the
clerk rdfused,.&c., and the court refused to order the clerk
to write down the same, or to permit the witnesses themselves, the counsel for either of the parties, or any other person, to write down such testimony; the court. expressing the
opinion that the 'Court of the Uitifed States is not governed
by the practice of the courts of the state of Louisiana.
No charge or advice whatever was given or asked from.the
court to the jury -on any matter of law or fact in the case :
nor was any question 'whatever raised of the competency or
-adniissibility of such evidence, other than the specific exception bef6re taken to the competency of Fiske, on, the
sole objection of interest ; the substance of the facts proved
by him' being in no manner drawn inquestion-.before the
court.

The record sets out all the documentary evidence ; all of
which appears to have been admitted by both parties. This
.consists • of the protested bills above nitationed, with an admission upon the record by the defendant, that they had been
regularly returned under protest to the plaintiffs, and that
plaintiffs were, at the time the suit was commenced, the
holders and owners of the same: and of a series of defendant's letters to his agent Fiske, from the 26th of March
1623 to thie 10th of August 1825, containing evidence that
Fiske, during a11 that time,-was settled at New Orleans, and
was the factor and agent of the defendant, there to receive
shipments, of cargoes from Boston for the New Orleans market, and to purchase and ship from the latter place to the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Parsons V. Bedford et al.]

defendant at Boston, cargoes of cotton and tobacco, ,for
which he was authorised to draw bills on Pargons'at Boston.
Upon the argument in.this court the first bill of exceptions has been abandoned as untenable, and in our judgment upon sound reasons.
The second bill of exceptions is that upon which the court
is now called upon to deliver its opinion.
By the act of Louisiana of the 28th- of January 1817, section 10, it is provided, that in every case to be tried by a jury,
if one of the parties demands that the facts set forth in the
petition.and answer should be submitted to the jury to have
a special verdict thereon, both parties shall proceed, before
the swearing of the jury, to make a written statement of the
facts so alleged and denied, the pertinency of which statement
shall be judged of by the court, ard signed by the.judge; and
the jury shhll be sworn to decide the question of fact or facts
so alleged and denied, and their verdict or opinion thereof shall be unanimously given in open court, &c. and 'be
conclusive between the parties as to the facts in said cause,
as well in the court where the said cause is tried, as on the
appeal, and the court shall render judgment; provided, that
the jury so sworn shall be prohibited to give any general
verdict in the case, but only a special one on'the facts submitted to them. This section points out the mode of obtaining a special verdict, in the sense of the common law.
The twelfth section then provides, that when any cause.
shall be submitted to the court or to a jury without statements of facts, as is provided in the tenth section 'of the act,
the verbal. evidence shall in all cases where, an appeal lies
to the supreme court of the state, if either party requires it,
and at the time -when the witnesses shall be examined, be'
taken down in writing by the clerk of the court, in order to
be sent up to the supreme court, to serve as a stdtement of
factg in case of appeal; and the written evidence produced
on tfhe trial shall be filed with the proceedings, &c. &c.
The object of this section .is'asserted-to 'be to enable the
appellate court in cases of general verdicts, as well. as. of
submissions to the court, to exercise thE powerof granting a
new trial, and revising the. judgment of the inferior court.

444"

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et al.]

It seems to be a substitute for the report of the judge who
sat at the' trial, in the ordinary-course of proceedings at the
common law.
Of itself, the course 'ofproceeding under the state' law
of Louisiana could not have any intrinsic force or obligation
in the courts of the United States organized in that state:
but by the act of congress of the 26th of May 1824, ch. 181,
it is -provided that the mode of proceeding in civil causes in
the courts of the United States that now are or hereafter
may be established in the state of Louisiana, shall be conformable to the laws dirbcting the mode of practice in the
district courts of the said states ; provided, that the judge
of any such court of the United States may alter the times
limited or allowed for different proceedings in the state
courts, and make by rule such other provisions as may be
necessary to adapt the laws of procedure to -the organization of such court of thr; United States, and to avoid any'discrepancy, if any such should exist, between such state laws
and the laws' of the United States.
This proviso demonstrates, that it was not the intention
of congress to give an absolute and'imperative force to the.
modes of proceeding in civil causes in Louisiana in the courtof the United States; for it authorises the. judge to modify
them, so as to adapt them to the organization of his own
.court. It further demonstrates, that no absolute repeal was
intended of the antecedent modes of proceeding authorised
in the courts under the former acts of congress, for it leaves
the judge at liberty to make rules by which to avoid any discrepancy between the state laws and the laws of the United
States ; and what is material to be observed, there' is no
clause in the act pointing in the slightest manner to any
intentional change of the mode in whirh the supreme court
of the United States is to exercise it. appellate power in
causes tried by jury, and coming from the courts of the
United States in Louisiana; or giving it authority to revise
the judgments thereof in any.matters of fact, beyond what
the existing-laws of the United States authorisdd.
Whether the district court in Louisiana had. adopted any
rules on this subject, so as to modify or suspend the opera-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et aL.]

tion of the Louisiana state practice, in relation to the taking
down the verbal testimony of witnesses, dods not appear
upon this record. The court expressed an opinion, "that
the court of the United States is not governed by the practice of the' courts of the state of Louisiana ;" and this would
be correct, if, in the particular complained of, the court had
adopted any rule superseding that practice.. If no such rule
had been adopted, the act of congress made the practice
of the state the rule for the court of the United States.
Unless, then, such a special rule existed, the court was
bound to follow the general enactment of congress on the
subject, and pursue the state practice.
But, admitting that the decision of the court below was
wrong, and that the party was entitled to have his testimony
taken down in the manner prayed for; still it is important'
to conside'r, whether this is such an-error as can be redressed
by this court upon a writ of error.
Generally speaking, matters of practice in inferior courts.
do not constitute subjects upon which error can be assigned
in the appellate court. And unless it shall appear that this
court, if the omitted evidence had been beforeit on the re-.
cord, would have been entitled to review that.evidence, and
migt,-if upon such review it had deemed.the conclusion of
the jury -erroneous, have reversed the judgnent and directed
a bew trial inthe court below ;. there is no ground upon
which' the present writ. of error-can be sustained.
.It.was competent for the original defendant to have raised.
any points of law growing out of he evidence at the trial,
by 'a proper application to the court; and'to have brought
any error (f the court in its instruction or -refusal,-by.a bill
of exceptions, before this court for revision. Nothing of this
kind was done or proposed. No bill of exceptions was
tendered to the court; and no pointi of law are brought
under review. 'The whole object, therefore, of the applica-.
tion to recoid the evidence, so far at least as this court can
fake cognizance of it, was to present the evidence here in
order to establish the error of the verdict in matters of fact.
Could such matters' be properly cognizable -.
in this court
ulion the present writ of error! It is very certain that they

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et al.]

could not upon any suit and proceedings in any court of the
United States, sitting in any other state in the union than
Louisiana.
The trial by jury is justly dear to the American people.
It has always been an object of deep interest and solicitude,
and every encroachment upon it has been watched with great
jealousy. The right to such a trial is, it is believed, incorporated into, and secured in every state constitution in the
union; and it is found in, the constitution of Louisiana.
One of the strongest objections originally taken against the
constitution of the United States, was the want of an express
provision securing the right of trial by jury in civil cases. As
soon as the constitution was adopted, this right was secured
by the seventh amendment of the constitution proposed by
congr6ss; and which -received an assent of the people so
general, as to establish its importance as a fundamental
guarantee of the rights and liberties of the people. This
amendment declares, that "in suits.at common law, where
the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the
right of trial by jury shall be preserved; and -no fact once
tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examinable in any court
of the United States, than according to the rules of the
common law." At this time there were no states in the
union, the basis of whose jurisprudence was not essentially
that of the common law in its widest-meaning; and probably no states were conteimplated, in which it would not.exist.
The phrase "common law," found in this clause, is used in
contradistinction to equity, and, admiralty, and maritime jurisprudence. The constitution had declared, in the third article, "that the judicial power shall extend to all cases in
law and eqtity arising under this constitution, tie laws of
the United States, and treaties made or which shall be made
under their authority," &c. and to all cases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction. It is well known, that in civil
causes, in courts of equity and admiralty, juries do not intervene, and that courts of equity use the trial by jury only
jn extraordinary cases to inform the conscience of the court.
When, therefore, we find that the amendment requires that
the right of trial by jury shall be preserved in suits at com-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et aL.]

mon law, the natural conclusion is, that this distinction was
present to the minds of the framers of the amendment. 'By
common law, they meant what the constitution denominated
in the third article "law;" not merely suits, which the
common law recognized among its old and settled proceedings, but suits in which legal rights were to be ascertained
and determined, in contradistinction to -those where equitable rights alone were recognized, and equitable'remedies
were administered or where, as in the admiralty, a mixture
of public law, and of maritime law- and equity was often'
found in the same suit. Probably there were few, if any,
states in the union,. in which some new legal remedies differing from the old common law forms were not in use;'but'
in which, however, the trial by jury intervened, and the
,general regulations in other respects were according to.the
course of the common law. Proceedings in cases of partition, and of foreign and domestic attachment,- might be
cited as bexoxnples variously adopted and modified. In a
just sense, the amendment then may well be construed to
embrace all suits which are not of equity and admiralty,
jurisdiction, whatever may be the peculiar form which they'
may assume to settle legal rights. And congress seems to
tav.e acted with reference to this exposition in the judiciary
act of 1789, ch. 20, (which was contemporaneous with the
proposal of this amendnent) ; for in the ninth section it-is
provided, that "the trial of issues in fact in the district
courts in all causes, except civil causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction,shall be by jury;" and in the twelfth
section it is provided, that ." the trial of issues in fact in the.
circuit courts shall in, all suits, except these of equity; and
of admiralty and'maritime'jurisdiction,be by jury;" and
again, in the thirteenth section, it is provided, that "the
trial of issues.in fact in the supreme court in all acijons at
law-against citizens of the Unitea States, shall be by jury."
But the other clause of the amendment is still more important; and we read it as a substantial and independent
clause. "No fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise' re-examinable, in any court of the United States, than according to
the rules of.the common .law." This is a prohibition to the

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford'et id.]

courts of the United States to.re-examine any facts tried by
.a jury in any other manner. The only modes known to thecommon law to re-examine such facts, are the granting of
a 'new trial by the court where the issue was tried, or to
which the record was properly return able;. or the award of a
venire facias de onovo, by an appellate court, for some errorof law which intervened in the proceedings. - The judiciary
act of 1789, ch. 20, sec. 17, has gived to all the courts of the.
United Stitis "power to grant -new trials in cases wherethere has been a trial *by'jury, for reasons for which new
-trials-have usually been granted in the courts of law." And
ihe'appellate jurisdiction has also been amply given by the
same act (sec. 22,2 4) to this court, to redress errors of law ;.
and for such errors to award a new trial, in suits at law
which have been tried by a jury.
Was it the intention of-congress, by the general languageof the act-of 1824, to alter the appellate jurisdiction of ihis"
court, and to confer on it the power of granting a new trialby a re-examination of the facts tried by the jury '1to enable
it, after trial by jury, to'dcr that in respect to the courts of
the United States, sitting in Louisiana, which is denied to
such -courts sitting in all the other states in the union I We
think not. No general words, purporting'only to regulate
the practice of a partidular court, to conform its modes of
jproceeding -tothose prescribed. by the state to its own courts,ought, in our judgment, to receive an interpretation which
would create so .idportatf.an alteration in the laws of.the
United States, securing the trial by jury. Especially ought
it not to receive such an' interpretation, when there.is a"
power given to the inferior. court itself to prevent any discrepancy between" the state laws and the laws 'of the United
States; so that-it would be left to its sole discretion to supersede, or to give conclusive effect in' the appellate court
to the verdict- of the jury.
If, indeed, the construction contended for at the bar wereto be given to the act of congress, ye en(ertain the most
serious doubts whether it Would not be uricoistitutioni]. No
court ought, unless the terms of an act rendered it unaoidabler to give a construction to it which should involve a vio-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Parsons vs. Bedrordet al.]

lation, however unintentional, of the constitution. The-terms
of the present act may well be satisfied by limiting its operation to moues of practice and proceeding in the court below3
without changing the effect or conclusiveness of the verdict
of the.jury upon the facts litigated at the trial. Nor is there
any inconvenience from this construction; for the party has
still his remedy, by bill of exceptions, to bring the facts in
review before the appellate court, so far as-those facts bear
upon any question of law arising at the trial; and if there be
any mistake of the facts, the court below is competent to redress it, by granting a new trial.
Our opinion being that, if the evidence were now before
us, it would not be compet6nt for this court to reverse the
judgment for any error in the verdict of the jury at the trial;
the refusal to allow that evideice to-be entered on the record is not matter of error, for which the judgment can be
reversed. 'The judgment is therefore affirmed, with six per
cent damages and costs.
Mr Justice M'LEAN, dissenting.
This cause was removed from the district court of Louisiana by a writ of error ; and 'a reversal of the judgment is
prayed for, on the errors assigned.
The suit was originally brought in the parish court of the
parish of New Orleans, and was removed to the district court
of the United States, which exercises the powers of a circuit
courl.
In their petition, the plaintiffs below state that one Eben
Fisk, as agent at-New Orleans for William Parsons, the defendant, residing ht Boston, purchased from the plaintiffs
large quantities of tobacco, and drew bills on the defendant
in payment, which he refused to honour. The plaintiffs
claim 10,000.
The defendant, in his answer, denies the material facts set
forth in the petition. A jury was impannelled, and a verdict
rendered for $6484.
On the trial, the bills of exchange
were produced, and a great number of business letters be'tween Parsons and Fiske were read..
Fiske -was sworn as a witness, though objected to-on the
VOL. 11.-3 G

SUPREME COURT.
(Parsons vs. Bedford et al.]

ground of interest; but a.release remoyed the objection to
his competency.
The first assignment of error relied on is, that from thefacis apparent on the record, the plaintiffs had no right of
-action against the defendant, and that. therefore this court
will decree a judgment to be entered in favour of the defen.dant.
2. That they will, at least, reverse this judgment, and
award a new trial, for one of the following reasonis:
1, Because the court refused to direct the evidence to be
put upon the record.
2. Because -the whole question was a question- of law, and.
the decision was against law.
3. It is not strictly a common law proceeding; but a proceeding under the peculiar system of Louisiana ;.and according to that system, the court has power to reverse the judgment, under circumstances which would not give it that
power where- the trial had been according to the common
law.
As this cause involves, a constitutional question, which
has not been-settled by this court, and as.I am so unfortunate as to differ in opinion with a majority of the members
of the court, I shall, with great deference, present my views
of the case..
In the state of Louisiana, the principles of the common
.law are not recognized neither do the principles of the civil
law of Rome furnish the basis of their jurisprudence. They
have a system peculiar to themselves, adopted by their statutes, which embodies much of the civil law, some 'f the principles of the common law, and, in a few instances, the statutory provisiong.of other states. This 'system may be called
the civil law of Louisiana, and is peculiar to that state.
The modes of proceeding in their courts are more nearly
assimilated to the forms of chancery than to those of the
common law. The plaintiff files his petition, in which he
sets forth the ground of complaint and the relief prayed for.
Pxocess issues against tile defendant; and when he is in court,
he is ruled to answer the bill. The answer is filed, in which
he admits, denies, or avoids the facts set forth in the petition,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
(Parsons vs. Bedford et aL]

thp same as in a suit in chancery; and he, is permitted, in
his answer, to set up a demhand against the ptaintiff, which he
may recover if sustained.
When the cauge is brought to a hearing,, the-court decides
the facts and the law, if neither party requires a jury. " The
testimony is taken down at the trial, and either liarty may
move for a new trial, or take an appeal to the superior court.
If an apl'eal be taken, the testimony forms a part of the
record; and is re-examined by the appellate court. Either
party has a right to require a jury in the inferior court, and
also to demand that the testimony be taken down at the trial;
so that it may form a part. ;f the record, and be considered
by the appellate" court, should an appeal be taken.
If either party desires what is called in the statute a special verdict, each party makes a statemqnt of facts, which
exhibit the grounds of controversy ; and these statements
are submitted to the jury with the'testimony in the case. In
this case, also, if either party requires it, the testimony must
be taken down at the trial.
The facts found by the jury are examined by the appellate court, and its judgment is giverr on the facts without
the intervention of a jury.
Such is the outline of the course of practice in the courts
of Louisiana. A court of chancery there i's as little krown,
and the rules of its proceedings as little regarded, as are
those of a court of common law. Redress is sought in substantially the same manner .for an injury done to the person, his property or character. Whether he seeks to recover a debt, or asks the specific execution of a contract, or to
avoid a contract on the ground of fraud or accident, the
mode of proceeding is the same; he files his petition, and
the defendant must answer.
In thus repudiating the forms and principles of the common law, the state of Louisiana'has pursued a course dififerent from her sister states. *This has resulted from the
views of jurisprudence, derived by the great mass of her
citizens from the foreign governments with which they were
recently connected.
It is no doubt a wise poli6y to adapt the principles of

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et al.]

government to the moral and social condition of the govern.ed. This is no less true in a judicial than it is in a political
point of view ;. and where an intelligent people possess the
sovereign power, they will not fail to secure this first object
of a good government.
By an act of congress of the 26th of May 1824, it is provided that the mode of proceeding in civil causes in the
courts of the United States, that now are, or hereafter may
be established in the state of Louisiana, shall be conformable to the laws directing the mode of practice in the district
courts of the said stat§: provided, that the judge of any
such court of the United States may alter the times limited
or allowed for different proceedings in the state courts, and
make, by rule, such other provisions as may be necessary to
adapt the said laws of procedure to the organization of such
court of the United States, and to avoid any discrepancy, if
any such exist, between such state laws and the laws of the
United States.
There is no evidence, before the court that the power'
given to the district judge.in this proviso has been exercised : the first part of the section, which adopts in the district court of the United States the same mode of proceeding
in civil actions as is established in the courts of the state,
must therefore. be considered as in force. And until this
power be exercised, this section is a virtual repeal of so
much of the judiciary act of 1789, and all other. acts prior
to 1824, which came within its provisions.- It is contended,

that whatever may be the rules of practice in 'the district
court of Louisiana, they do not confer jurisdiction on this
court. The force of this objection is admitted.
Any law regulating the practice of an inferior court does
not confer jurisdiction on an appellate court; but where
such court has jurisdiction of the case, it must be governed
in its decision by the rules of practice in the court below.
This court has jurisdiction by writ of error to revise the
final judgment, in ahy civil action, of a circuit court of the
Unitdd States where the matter in controversy exceeds two
*thousand dollars. Whether this judgment be obtained by
the forms of the civil or the common law is immaterial.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

453

[Parsons vs. Bedford et al]

The only essential requisites to give juiisdiction are, that it
be a civil action, involving a matter in controversy exceeding two thousand dollars; and that the judgmentbe final.
The forms of.proceeding adopted under the Louisiana
practice, in the district court, constitute no objection to a
revision of its final judgments by writ of error.
In the case of Parsons against Armor, brought to this
court by writ of error from Louisiana, knd decided the
present term, the court has sustained its jurisdiction. That
case in no respect differs in principle from this, except that
the amount due was ascertained by the court in that cause,
,and in this by a jury. Both causes were brought against Parsons to recover the price of certain quantities of tobacco
sold to Fiske, the alleged agent of the defendant. The
same testimony was used in both causes, with theexception
of the bills of .exchange.
In the case of Armor, the court looked into the testimony,
which was cditified as a part of the record. From this testimony it appeared that Fiske acted as the factor of Parsons,
and in no other respect as his agent; that Parsons looked
to Fiske for the faithful disbursement 'ofthe funds.placecl in
his hands, and the purchases were' made in.his name, and the
payments sometimes in drafts, and at others in cash; that
the credit was given to Fiske and not to Parsons by the
vendors of the arti]e purchased. The court therefore reversed: the judgment obtained against Parsons in the district court.
*The testimony,.thus examined by the court, was not made
a part of the record by a bill of exceptions, but was taken
downat-the trial. Had this been done in a case at common
law, the court would not have considered the testimony as.
a part of the record ; and consequently they could hot have
looked into it in deciding the cause. But the practice of the
districtcourt, under the sanctions of theac.t of 1824, was considered as .presenting the testimony in that cause as fully
to the consideration of this court, -as in a case at common
law, where it is embodied in a bill of exceptions. The, facts
being ascertained by the court, bn weighing the testimony
the law. was .pronounced in its judgment..

454

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et af']

The law of Eouisiana requires the testimony tobe taken
down, if demandqd by either party, as well where a jury is
impannelled as where the cause is submitted to the court.
But ir the case under consideration, the court, at the -trial,
refused to order the testimony to be taken in writing, although a .motion to that effect was made. This refusal is
the principal ground on which the plaintiff in error relies.for
the reversal of this judgment. He claimed a right secured
to him bi law, which was refused ; and he seeks redress by
writ of-error.
This redress cannot be given, it is urged; because, if the
testimony had been taken down, it could halve been of no
advantage to the plaintiff in error, as this court could not
examnine it. And why may not this "testimony be examihed
by'the court, the same as in the case of Armor. The facts.
are the same, and no difference exists in the merits of the
claims.
The reply is, that in Ihis case a jury passed upon the claim,
and in the other the court, exercising the-functions of.a jury,
decidqd both the fact and the law. Thie difference then- consists in this; that the jury found the facts in the one case,
and the court in the other; and in bothcases the law was
pronounced by the court.
This difference in the mode of decision, it would seem;
ought nct to affect the judgment of this court, unless there
be some positive provision of law which must control it.
The seventh article of the amendment of the constitution
is referred to as conclusive on the point. It reads, "in all
suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall
exceed twefity dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved; and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of the United States, than according to
the rules of the common law."
To this objection an answer may be given, which to me
is satiifactory.
.This is not a suit at common law, and therefore does not
come strictly within the provision of the article.
In what respe.ct can this action be compared to a suit at
common law?

JANUARY TERM 1830..
['Parsons vs. Eedford et al.]

It was commenced by petition, and in all the stages through
which it has been carried, no step has been taken in conformity to the conimon law; unless it be that the matter in
controversy was submitted to a jury, and -abill of exceptions
taken., Does this make it a" common law proceeding q. A
jury is often called to try matters of fact in -a chancery case,
and in the admission of evidence, the rules of the common
law are observed. But does this make the principal pro
6eeding an action at law q Surely not. And can the same
Epode of trial under the statute of .Louisiana have that effect ?. The proceedings under this statute are as dissimilar
to the common law process, as are the rules of chaficery.
The; whole proceeding under the statute is in derogation of
the commonlaw. How then can itbe called a common law
proceeding '. If it contain one feature of the common law,
that does not change the character of the suit. The mode
of xedresi is, under the special provisions of the statute, a
-remedy created by the law of the state. Can this procedure
be called a suit at comrhon law.
The words in the latter clause of the seventh article,
"and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined
in any court of the United States," refer to the first clause
of the sentence, which limits the trial to "suits at common
law." If this were not the true construction of the sentence, facts. found by a jury in an issue directed by a court
of chancery, w6uld be conclusive- on the chancellor.. The,
verdict has. never been so considered, and especially in the
appellate courts of chancery. If the intervention of a jury in
this -ase do not change its character, so as to make it a
common law proceeding, then there is no difference in principle b.etw'een this case and that' of Armor. As the court
iri- that cause looked into the testimony to ascertain the
facts, so as to apply the principles of law, why not do the
same in this. In that case the judgment of the circuit court
wqs reversed .. a reversal in this case would render it proper
to send down the cause for trial.
But the circuit court in.this case refuse.d to order the testimony to be taken down at the trial. This is- undoubtedly
error, if this- court could examine the testimony, as it did in

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et al.] ,

Armor's case. Had that case been considered by the court
as a suit at common law, it must have been dismissed, or the
judgment affirmed. It wag under the particular practice of
the district court that this court considered itself authorised
to look into the testimony which formed a part of the record in that cause, and by this procedure established the
fact, that it was not strictly an action. at common law. This
appears to me to relieve the case under consideration from
difficulty. For, if the suit of Armor was not a common
law proceeding, neither is this suit; and consequently it isfree from any constitutional objection in this court.
The objection made, that if congress by adopting the
practice of the Louisiana courts may evade the provisions
of the seventh amendment, and that they may abblish the trial
by jury in the courts of the United States, by creating special remedies'not known to the common law; is answered
by saying, that cbngress have the power to do much, which
it is not probable they will do. Have they not power to
repeal the acts Which confer jurisdiction on the courts of the
United States, andwhich regulate t1eir practice!. This would
not only take away the right of trial by jury in such courts,
but' all trials of every description. Is it at all probable that.
this power will be exercised . The answer must be in the
negative; and so must the answer to an inquiry whether congress, by creating new remedies, will dispenge with the.trial
by jury.
Is this article of the-constitution to be construed to mean,
by the words ".suits. at common law," all suits which
are not properly, called -cases of equity, of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction . Under the practice of Louisiana,
how are such suits to be distinguished . The form of action
is the same in equity as at law; and if in all cases where a.
legal right could be prosecuted in other states, at the common law, they. are to be denominated actions at law in Louisiana, the design of congress in adopting the Louisiana
practice is defeated. The actof 18Z4 intended to relieve
the parties to a suit in the district court in Louisiana from
the forms of the common law, or the. special regulations of

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[(Parsons vs. Bedford et A]

the judiciary act of 1789, because. tbey.Were-.nbt adapted
to the modes of -proceeding in that court.

Suppose congress had specially provided;thatin all trials
before the district- court of Louisiana, the testimony 'should"
be taken down,- and that it should form a part of the record,
so as to.present the facts to the -supreme court. in the same
manner as though they had been embodied in- a prayer for
special instructions to the jury, -and brought up.by bill 6f.
exceptions ; might not this court determine the questions of
la.w.arising in the case! This, it appears to me, is neither
more. nor less than has been done byth'e act of 1824.
..Are- all'the laws of the -dif.erent -,tates-foi'the'vatuation
.of improvements - by comfiiissioners; where a. recovery. for
land is had'against ab6ona fine -occupant who claimed. title,
- unconstitutional '.

If suit be brought in .he state courts,

these laws are.enforced as constitutional; but, if brought'in
the -circuit court-of- t"-. United States,AThey are unconstitdtional.- 'This would make the constitutionality of.acts depend,.notrupon a construction-ofthe constitution,.but upon
the jurisdiction'where the actiorn is'brought. It would-give
redress. in the state courts, which in the. United States
courts would be unconstitutional. "
This would be the inevitable consequence. if the.provision in the seventh article be restricted in its applicationtothe .courts 6f the United States, and -be construed Ito. embrice every species of actibn where alegal right is prosecuted; 'And, if to-.escape. this..consequene., the provision of
the'article.be, extended- to embrace, all cases which come
within the above construction, without reference-to the juris'diction where the remedy is sought; then all laws extend-:
ing the jurisdiction of-justices -of the peace -above twenty
dollars are unconstitutional; and also every arbitration .system, which does not require a jury. An appeal from the
judgment of a justice of the peace will not evade .the constitutional objection; for the judgment is final, and the ques.
tion involves the rigtit of th6 justice to give judgment in
the case, without the intervention of a jury.
Suppose congress, for the purpose of adjusting land titles
in a district of country, should establish a special court,
VOL. 111.-3 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Bedford et al.]

called commissioners, to examine and determine between the
"different claimants; would their proceedings be valid, under
the seventh amendment of the constitution 1.This mode has
been adopted by congress to settle claims to lands under the
Louisiana treaty; and the ,acts of the commissioners have
been confirmed. If such a proceeding -Was to be denominated the prosecution of a legal right, and consequently a
suit at common law, because it was. not a case in equity;
the decision-was void under the seventh article, and also any
act of legislation confirming it.
From the foregoing consideratiofis I am brought to the
conclusion, that this case is not strictly a suit at common
law; and that this court may, under the act 6f 124, as it
did in .the case of Armor, look into the record,, and, from the
facts there set forth, determine the question of Jaw : and
as the court below refused to order the testimony to be taken
down ; I think the defendant has been deprived of a right
secured to him by law; and that for this error, the judgment
should be reversed, and the cause sent down for further proceedings ; with instructions to the district court, to order the
testimony. to be taken down at the .trial.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript ot the
record from the district court of the United States for the
district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the sdid district court 'in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, .with costs and damages at
the rate of six per centum perannum,

