•SUPREMhE COUIM.

THE UMT9D STATES, PLAnTWFS IN ERi.oR v8. THoms
)EFIMIDAN7-Iff

BuFomp,-

ERROR.

When money of the United States has been received by.one, l iblic agent fron
anolther public agent, whether it was received in an offiical or private capacity,
there fan be no doubt but that it was received fo the use of the United States;
and they may maintain 4~nactioaagainst the receiver for the same. [28]
B. a deputy commissary general of the United States received from M.a'deputy
quaiter master general of the United States the sum of $10,000, anclacknowleaged the same by a receipt signed by him with his official description. The
United States had i right to treat M. as their agent in the transactlon;.by
making B. their debtor, and to an action br'ught.against him for money had
and received, the statute of limitations is no bbr. [29]
An acc6unt stated at the treasury department which does n6t arise in the ordinary
mode of doing business in that departnient, can derive no additional validity
from being certified under the act of .conhress, A treasury statement can only
be regarded.,as establishing items for moneys disbursed through the ordlnar
channels of the department,where the transactions are shown by its books. In
these cases the officers may siell certify, for they must have official knowledge
df the facts stated. [29]
But when moneys come into the. hands of an individual, not through the officers
of the treasury, or in the regular course of fficial duty, the books of the treasury do not exhibit the facts, nor can they be kiown to thd officers of-the department. In such a case the claim of the United'States for money thus in the
hands of a third person must be established, not by a treasury statement, but
by the evidence on which that statement was made. [29]
In England any instrument or claim, though not negotiable, may be assigned to
the king, whocanau'e upon it in his own name. :.,No valid .objection is perceived against giving the same effect to ai assignment to the government df
this country. " [30]
Where, before the transfer to the United States of an instrument which was.tbe
evidence of debt, the term of five yearsjhad elapsid, the period'after which the
statute of limitations was a bar, it can require -no argument to show that the
transfer of such claim to the United States cannot.give it any greater validity
than it.possessed before the transfer. 130]
In the correct order 8f pleading it is necessary, that the facts of -the plea shouldbe traversed by the replication, unless matter in'.avoidance be set up. It is
not sufficient that the facts alleged in the replication be inconsistent witlhthose
stated in the plea; an issue must be taken on the material allegations of the.
plea. [31]
This court. has'repeatedl 'decidedthat the exercise of the discretion of the court
below, in reusing or granting amendments of pleadings or motions for new
trials, affords no grounds for a writ of error. . In oveiru'rng a niotion for leave
to withdraw a replication aud&file a new one, the court e~ercised its discretion ;
and the reason assigned, as influencing that'discretion, cannot affect the decision. [31]

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs;Buford.3'

ERROR -to the circuit court of Kentucky.
The United States instituted an action, of assumpsit in the
circuit court of Kertucky, to recover the sfum of ten thousand
dollars from the defendant, which they alleged to have beea:
rdceived by him to their use, The claim of the. United
States arose under the following dircumstances.
On the 21st December. 1812, at Lexington, Kentucky,
James Morrison, a deputy quarter master general, of the
army of the United States paid to the defendant in error,
Thomas Buford, then a deputy commissary of the United
States, the sum .often thousand dollars, and took from Mr
Buford a receipt for the same, in the following w-ords.:
Lexington, 21st December 1822.
Received of james Mdrriso'n -deputy quarter master general, ten thousand dollars, ,for which sum I promise. to
account when called upon.
T
THOS. BUF01RD,
Deputy. Commissary, U. S. A.,
Upon the setilement of his account with the United
States, Mr Morrison claimeal a credit for the sum thus paid
to Mr Buford, which credit was refused to him; and aferwards, on the 3d March 1823, congress passed an act "for
the relief of James Morrison," by ivhich the accountiiig
officers of the'treasury were autthorised to allow to him in
the settlement of his accounts, the sum so advanced- to Mr
Buford, " provided that the said James Morrison shall first
assign and- transfer- to. the United Stpates, all his right and
claim to the moneys mentioned in a certain receipt given by
thesaid-Thomas Buford-to the said James Morrison, bearing date the 21st day-of December 1812," with a7 proviso,
that-if James Morrison should not be found indebted to the
United States the whole of the amount so to be assigned,
the balance should be repaid to -him.
Onr the 7th of March 1823, .James Morrison- made the
following- assignment. to the United' States, in compliance
with the act of congiess.:

SUPREME COURT.
[United- States vs. Buford.]

"Now I, James Morrison; in pursuance of the provisions
of the said law, do hereby assign and transfer to, the said
United States, all my right and claim to the moneys mentioned in the, said receipt. Witness my hand and seal, this
7th day of March 1823.
"JAMES -MORRISON."
Test. H. CLAY,
A. D. HADiN.
Upon the execution of this assignment, and the surrende'r
of the receipt, the following account was made out, and
certified at the treasury of the United States.
Dr Thomas .Buford, late Deputy Commissary, in account with the U. S. Cr.
GE

ERAZ ACCOUNT OF ARREARAGES.

To J'ames.Morrison, for amount

By balance due U. States,

received from him per receipt

$10,000

21stDeeeroer1812, frwhich
he is accountable,'
$10,000
To balance per ontra,

8 1000,.I

TREASURY DEPARTMSKT, 2d Auditor's Office, March 7th, 1923.
Stated by

RD. BURGESS.

Pursuant to the provisions of the act of congress, passed
3d March 1817, 'entitled an act to provide for the prompt
settlement of public accouhts, a transcript of the account
so stated and settled -was certified, for the purpose of maintaining a claim on Thomas.Buford for the balance Which
thus appeared to"be due'to the United States.
In August 1823, the attorney of the United States filed
a declaration in the suit, in 'the district court of Kentucky,
for money had and received, which declaration set .forth.
"that the defendant, on the 10th day of March 1823, was'
indebted to the United States in the sum of ten thousand
dollars, for so much money before that time had and received as an officer of the United Slates to their use, as by
the account of the said defendant with the said United
States, duly settled, examined and adjusted at the treasury

JANUARY TERM 1830.

15

[United. States v8. Buford.1

department,,on the said t0th day of March 1'823,-arid to

the court shown, duly certified according to the act of
congress of the United States, in. such case made and- provided, fully appears."
To this declaration the defendant pleaded,
1, After oyer of the- account ; that the plaintiffs actio non,
because "the declaration and-the matters and things therein
contained are not good and sufficient, in law to have and
maintain the said action," &c.
2. Because he does not owe the debt in the declaration
mentioned and demanded, &c..
3. Because James Morrison, the assignor of the receilit
and demand to the said plaintiffs, was, at the time of and
before said assignment, .and .remained until the time of his
death, indebted to him in a much larger sum of money-than
the said sum demanded, for money had and received.by said
MorrisOn, to the use and benefit of said defendant; for me-ney before that time lent and advanced at his special instance
and request; for money paid, laid out and expended, at his
like special instance and request: and being so indebted,
said Morrison assumed upon himself and promised to .pay
said defendant the aforesaid sum of money, whenever he
should be thereunto afterwards requested ; yet the said Mor-"
rison has not paid said defendant the aforesaid sum of-monAey, or any part thereof; nor have the executors -or administrators of said Morrison, since his death, or any :one for
him or them, paid said-defendant said sum of money, or any
part thereof, but the same remains wholly unpaid; which said
sum of money, or so much thereof as is equal to the demand
of said plaintiffs, the said defendant offers to set off and
,pleads as 4 set off against said. plaintiffs' demand, &c.
4. Because the cause of action and demand set forth by
the plaintiffs did notaccrue withi n five years next before the
impetration of the original writ in the cause.
To these several pleas the plaintiffs demurred, for insufficiency ; and the demurrer being overruled, ihe United States
replied, "the matters and things contained in the third. plea
of the defendant-are not good and sufficient in law to bai" and

-SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Buford.]

preclude the -United States frm having and maintaining
their action; and they further sayr.that the matters and things
contained in the fifth plea of the defendant of the statute of
]imitationi are not good and suffcient in law to bar and -preclude the plaintiffs from having their action, &c.
-The court sustained .the demurrer, and ordered tOat the
third and fifth plea be overruled, and gave time to, the defendant to put in other pleats.
Octobe'rterm 1824 of the Court, the
And afterwards, a.t
defendant, pleaded 'actio nion, because the account'-ppon
which the plaintiffs' suit is "founded,. was for money alleged
to have been -advanced by James Morrison to ihe defendant
on the 21st day of December ,1812, in the district aforesaid,
amounting to the sum of $10,000, .for wbich, by the terms of
the transaction, and-the express agreement of said parties
thereto, said Buford was to account to said Morrison for the
,-same, and that Said account and claim ofsaid Morrison was,
on ifie 7th day of March 1823, under and by virtue of an act
of congress, assigned and transferred by said-Morrison to said
plaintiffs; and the said-defendant in fact says, that -said demand and. cause of action aforesaid, did not accrue to said
Morrison -within five years next before said assignment aforesaid, &c.
7. That on the 21st day of-December 1812, this defendant received from a certain James Morison, the sum of ten
thousand .dollars, and- 'executed to hi-m-a receipt therefor,
that is'to say,, inthe commonwealth and district of Kentucky,-and on the 7th day of March 1823, the said Morrison
assigned by his certain writing, to which is subscibed his
proper hand,all his right and claim to- the money in the said
receipt specified-as aforesaid, and upon that receipt and assignmeht aforesaid, and without any other consideration, and
without the consent and pivityof the defendant, the account
in .the declaration mentioned was settled, examined and adjusted at the: treasury department-of the -United, States, to
whichsettlement and adjustment this-defendant has at no
time assented; .And the-defendant gays:that he did. not undertake and assume" to payi the said debt in the declaration

JANUARY TERM 1830.

.. 17

[United States vs. Buford.3

mentioned within five years next before the assignmentby
the said Morrison, northen, nor at.any time'subsequent.
8. Because he says that the assumpsit and demand of said
plaintiff drose. upon and by virtue of a claim.which was held
by virtue of one James Morrison for money by him advanced
and loaned to said defendant on the 21st day of December
1812i and which claim and demand of said'Morrison was, by
virtue of an act of congress.6n:the 7th. day of- March 1828,
assigned and transferred to said plaintiffs. And the defendant in fact says, that the said-cause Pf action di4 not neeorue
or arise. withim five years- next before.the suing out bf-the
original writ in. this cause, &c.
. 9. And because the claim and demand of. said plaintiffs
(vas derived by assignment and transfer from James Morrison, of a certain -writing executed by the defendant to sid
Morrison, acknowledging thejeceipt of ten thousand -dollars, by. the defendant from Morrison, stipulating to account
therefor to.said Morrison under and-by virtue of an act of
congress, which assignment as aforesaid was made on the
7th day of March 1823, and for no other consideration what-,
ever. And the defendant' in fact- says,,. that -said Morrison,
before-and at the date of said assignment in the district afore-said, was indebted to said defendant in a sum equal -to the
sum demanded by said plairtiff, to wit, the sum of eleven
thousand dollars, for money by said defendant bofore.-thai
time loaned and ddvanced to the said -Morrison, for. money
had and received' -by said Morri'son to the use of said defendant, and for money by said defendant puid, Jaid outand
expended for said Morrison, and all at the -special instance
and request of said Morrison,-and bei ng so indebted, he; said
Morrisoni in consideration.thereof; -then and there assumed
upon himself, and promised said defendant to pay said .sums
of money, whenever he should be thereto afterwards requested, and although often requested -has not pafd the same,
which'said'sum of money, said-defendant.is here willing, and
offers to set off against the plaintiffs' demand.
To the ninth plea the attorney of the United States filed
a. replication stating, that ihe United States 6ught'not to be
barred by any thing therein contained, because he says that
VOL. III.-C
-

18

SUPREME COURT.
*[United States vs. Bufora.]

the said James Morfison was not, at the date of said assignment in said plea mentioned, indebted to the said defendant,
as in pleading the defendanthath alleged. Upon this repAicatiof issue was joined.
To the sixth, seventh, and eighth pleas, the plaintiffs replied that the United States ought- not to be barred by
any thing contained in the said pleas, because the defmand in the declaration accrued for and in consideration
of ten thousand do'lars of and belonging to the United
States, antd by the said James Morrison, as an officer of
the United States, advanced to the said Thomas Buford
as an officer of the'United.States, to wit, as deputy commissary of the United States, then and there, and to the use of
the gaid United States, and by the said Thomas Buford, in
his official character as .deputy commissary as aforesaid,
receipted'for-to James Morrison, in his official character
as deputy quarter master general. And the said attorney
for. the United States brings here into court, the said receipt signed with the proper name of said Thomas, and
in his official character as aforesaid, and assignment, and
the act of the congress of the United States in the sixth, seventh, and eighth- pleas of the defendants mentioned, duly
certified according to the acts of the congress of the United
States in such case made and provided, which said sum of
money of and! belonging to the United States so as aforesaid
advanced by the said deputy quarter master general, to the
saia deputy commissary of the United States, and-so as aforesaid receipted for, bysaid Thomas Buford as deputy com-missary as aforesaid, is the same money, and receipt, and
assignnient, in the-said sixth, seventh, and eighth pleas of
the defendant mentioned, and this the said attorney of the
United States is feady to verify: whereforei &c.
iThd defendant after craving oyer of the writing -inthe
replication to the sixth, seventh, and eighth pleas, rejoined,
that -by reason of any thing -by the plaintiffs alleged in replying to the sixth, seventh,_and eighth pleas of the-defend-'eat, the plaintiffs-ought not to have-and maintain their -action
against the defendantbecause he says that-the money received by him from the said Morrison was received upon an

JANUARY TERM 1830.
tUnited States vs. Buford.]

-

individual transaction between the said Morrison and the
defendant, and the express understanding and agreement that
the defendant was to account therefor with the said Morrison,
and not upon any contract for this defendant to account with
the plaintiffs, and of this he puts himself upon the country.
The plaintiffs surrejoined and stated, that the money demanded by the declaration,-and expressed in the receipt and
assignment in the sixth, seventh, and eighth pleas of the defendants, was the. proper money of the United States, lent
and 'advanced by said quarter master general to the said
Thomas Buford, as deputy commissary, and to the use of the
said United States, as in the replication to the said pleas,
six, seven, and eight, is alleged.
The defendant demurred, and the United States having
joined in the demurrer, the court gave judgment " that the
law was with the defendant."
Afterwards, at a subsequent day of this same term "the
attorney for the tlnited States moved to withdraw the replication to the pleas of the statute of limitation, for the purpcse of replying thereto a'written agreement produced in
court by the attorney, under the hand and seal of James Morrison and the said Buford, respecting the statute of limitations."
The writing referred to was as follows c

"Whereas there is an item of ten thousand dollars in the
account of James Morrison, late deputy quarter master
general, charged by him a§ paid to Thomas Buford, deputy
commissary general United States army, or of purchases,
in December 1812, suspended on the allegation, by the proper officer of the war department for the United States, that
Morrison should look to.Buford for this money, and Morrison
having been advised that it would be proper that he should
institute a suit.against Buford, so as to preclude any- question about the statute of Jimitations; but being willing to
await a. reasonable time to let Buford show, if he can, that
said-sum was paid, or properly accounted for by him;. now
Morrison agrees that he will not bring suit-before 1st day
of June 1819; and Buford agrees that if suit is brought
thereafter, the statute of limitation should be no bar to Mor-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States'vs. Btlford.J

,
risons' recovery, if he is otherwisa entitled to recover. ' hI
testimony .whereof,we h*ave hereunto set our-hands and seals,
this 20th day of December 1819."

This motion was overruled by the court.
The record contained the following memorandumi "After
the demurrer decided in this cause, the attorney for the
United'States produced the writing between James' Morison and~said. Buford respecting the statute of limitations,
in the words and figures following, (inserted), and moved
for leave to withdraw the demurrer to the pleas of the statute
of limitationsfor the purpose of replying-to the said writing,
and for cause 6hown, that he had come to 'the possessionr
and knowledge of said writing. since the decision of the
court upon the demurrer. The court overruled the motion
upon the ground that the writing-would not be an avoidance
of the statute, but only a substantive- cause- Qf action for
breach of said covenant, expressing, however,,that 'leave
should be given if the writing would be a sufficient reply
and evialence of the statute of limitations, to which opinion
of the court in refusing to withdraw the' demurrer, and to
reply, the attorney for the United" Stdtes 'excepted, and
brought-t~is .writ of error."
The case was argued by Mr Berrien, attorney general of
thd:Vnited States,.for the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr Wickliffe and Mr Ogden for the defendant.Thp attorney general contended, -that the court- in pronouncing-its judgment was bound to look at the whold record, and give judgment accordingly.' 1 Stephenis on Pleading, 162. The original error was in allowing the plea of the
statute of limitations, which could only be sustained on the
ground that the United States had no original cause of action against Thomas Buford, and fhat the limitation had attached before this: action was brought.
r. The United States. had an original and gobd cause of
action..
2. That if the assignment is to be referred to, sill the right
of action is in the United States..

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Buford.]

3. The treasury settlement was conelusive- against the defendant, and whether the right of action existed originally
or derivatively, tlie statute was nobar to the suit by the United States.
As to the first point; the declaration alleges, and the replication and. surrejcinder reiterate the allegation, that " this
was the proper money of the United States,' received by the
defendant to the use-of the United States," and the demur.rer
.n the p~rt-of the defendant admitted the same. If the money.
of tfie.United States is advanced by.one agent of th6 govern-'
m ent to another, this is primafacie,by necesshry implication,
an.advanbe to the use of thb government. In-the case before
the court;,by the terms.of the receipt given by the defendant,
this is shown ; as the receipt acknowledges'the monby to have
been paid by James Morrison, "deputy quarter master general .of the United States," to Thomas Buford, ." deputy commissary general ;" and promises to account for the same. To
whom was he to- account, but to "the depiuty quarter master
general," the agent of the United. States. The money was
received by the defendant as an officer of tha United States,
from Mforrison as an officer; and was therefore received to
the use of the United States.
Under the provisions of the act of congress of 20th March
1812, it was the duty of- thi commissary general to account
to the quarter master general, and thus the obligations of
duty, and those assumed by the receipt, were the same. The
transaction was official in its character, and was therefore
one in which the rights-of,the United States were-in mIr
operation. Had Buford, in his.accounts as an officer, in the
settlement of those accounts with the United States,. given
credit for this. sum, he would have been discharged from all
liability to Morrison for the amount. If the claim of the United States is to rest on the receipt
-given -to Morison, and thL assignment made of it under the
act of congress,, it was contended that the law which authorised the transfer gave to the receipt an assignable character, -and authorised the United States to sue upon it-in this
form.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Buford.]

The treasury settlement was evidence against the defendant, as he was vithin the objects of the provisions of the
act. Walton vs. The United States, 9 Wheaton, 651. In
every case of "delinquency" in an officer, or any one accountable to the United States, the settlement is evidence;
and the privity or consent of the debtor is not required to
give it validity.
. The statute of limitations of Kentucky is not .a bar to the
suit of the United States. The United States vs. Hoar, 2
Mass. Rep. 311.
If the claim of the United States was under the assignment only, as the receipt is a promise "to account when
called upon ;" until called upon there was no cause of action,
and the promise was not broken until the defendant was
called on.
The court should have admitted the replication to be
withdrawn; and the agreement between Buford and Morrison was a good answer to the plea of the statute of limitations.
Although the rule is admitted that error does not lie for
matters in.the discretion of a court, yet exceptions to this
rule exist, *nd this is a case for an exception.* Mandeville
v!. Wilsory, 5 Cranch, 15. The plaintiffs had no knowledge
of the agreement which they desired to give in evidence
until after the demurrer to the defefidant's pleas; and he de-sired to make this a distinct matter, in reply to the allegation that the claim was barred by the statute of limitations.
Cited, Young vs. The Commonwealth, 6 Binney's Reports,
88. Marine Insurance Company vs. Hodgson, 6 Cranch's
Rep. 206.
The court having stated the reasons-for the refusal of the
motion of the plaintifl, they may therefore be examined;
and when examined they will. be found to be erroneous, and
may be assigned as,error. It was- error to refuse the mo.
tion, because the plaintiffs were thus excluded from the
benefit, and legal operation of the evidence; and having
the construction of the evidence presented for the decision
of this court, if it should have been'necessary. Upon a

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EUnited' States vs. Buford.]

fair examination of the stale of.the pleadings, the plaintiffs'
claim-should, have been-allowed.
The agreement was a good bar to 1he statute. Its object
was to prevent the operation of the statdte. By it Morrison
agieed notI5 bring suit. before a diy named, and Buford
agreed -that if suit should be brought thereafter, the statute
should not be a bar.
-To England the courts pioceed on the principle.that the
bar created by the statte rest§ "on the, presumption of
payment," and whatever repels the presumption takes the
case out of its operation. 2 Stark on Ev. 892. The agreement between Morrison and Buford does this effectually.
It admits the debt to have existed; it provides that time
shall be allowed to show payment, jind it implies a promise
of payment on the condition of forbearance.
Mr Wickliffe and Mr Ogden, for the defendant, argued, that
the liability of-the defendant upon the receipt, was a'private,
and not a public responsibility: although the official description of the parties was used, it did not therefore become an act
of an official character. The deputy quarter master general
had no right to advance or pay the money of the United
States-to the deputy commissary. The officers were in different spheres, each accountable to their government, and
'not to each other. This is declared by the provisions of the
fifth section of the act of congress of 1812.
Such were the views of the accounting officers of the
treasury upon this subject, and therefore they considered
the advance made by Morrison to Buford illegal A special
act of congress wag-necessary to authorise the credit, and to
make the charge against Buford legal in the treasury department. It was legal from the date: of that act, and not before.
This was therefore a transaction between two officers of the
government, unconnected in their official duties, and the
United States did not necessarily derive from the same a
right of action against the receiver of the money.
The provisions of'the acts of congress authorising treasury
settlements and making them evidence, did not apply-to such
a case. These laws comprehended cases of disbursing officers liable to account--to the United States; and the certifi-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Buford.]

cate of the treasury' department could be controverted by
the defendant, and hehad a right to do so by the usual practice and forms of pleading..
The sixth, seventh, and eighth pleas are good, if the defendant was not indebted t6 the United States. It is admitted that the statute of limitations does not run against the
United.States, but as between. Morrison and.Buford it did
run;. and when the assignment of the claim on the receipt
were made, the statute had attached, and the United States
were in no better situation than was that of Morrison before
and at the time of the assignment. The suit should have
been instituted by the plaintiffs as assignees, and it would
have .been in that form subject to the rights of the defendant
growing out of-the statute of limitations, and to all the offsets to which the, defendant was entitled, in his particular
and- private relations with Morrison.
The United States, if they claimed on the receipt and
assignment, and desired to show that the statute did not
ruq, should have stated the same in their replication, by
alleging a demand within five years.
The case conies up without any opinion of the court upon
the point of law. There is a question of law which arises in
the pleadings, they having ended* in a.demurrer; and the
pleadings, it is submitted, present the only question in. the
cause. The receipt is not in question. It -may show a-responsibility to the United States by the defendant; but as it
is not in the pleadings, it cannot aid the plaintiffs' case.
The question for the decision of this court, is not whether
the declaration is good, but whether the pleas are good.. If
they are, the defendant must go wittlout day.'
The declaration, whether it must be consideied as general
or speeihl, is a statement of a debt due to Morrison, and assigned to the United States, and the pleas allege.that if the
debt existed, it is barred by the statute of limitations, and.
there is 'no claim. This is not met by the United States.
They do not traverse this, -and thus put it in issue; nor do
they traverse the defendant's allegdtion which is made, that
the tratisation with Morrison was private. The replication
is therefore defective.

JANUARY T.RM 1830.
[United States vs. Buford,]

It is not seen how this court can look any further into the
pleadings on a demurrer, and it must be conceded that the
error is in the replication. The matters asserted in the pleas
stand uncontradicted; and must be taken as true against the
plaintiff. This is decisive of the cause. If Buford was, by
the terms of-the receipt, liable on demand, a demand should
have been alleged.
The refusal of the court after judgment -in favour -of the
defendant, to allow the plaintiffs to withdraw the- replicatioui, in order to set up the agreement, was in the-exercise
of their discretion, and 'not examinable in this court. To
admit as ground of error-the refusal of motions of this kind,
would -be productive of frequent injustice,. - The record
never shows why acts of the character-of that complained of
are done, and thus- a superior court would often be found
proceeding upon very different circumstances from those
which existed in the case.
It is doubtful whether it is within the province of a court
to interfere with such a decision as- that now objected to.
It is not a fidal judgment; and the final judgment upon
the pleadings in-the case is yet sfibsisting and must remain
until reversed. The motion was to set aside the' judgment,
and this is not a ground of error. The rule is invariable,
that there should be something in -therecord upon which the
court can exercise their judgmept.
The principles recognised in this court in Bell
. Morrison, I Peters, 351, in reference to the statute of limitations,
.estiblish the rule to be, that an acknowledgement of the debt
will not take the case-out of the statute. There must be a
promise to pay, the debt. The -- rts of Kentucky have
held these principles to -be correct, and they §upport the
decision of the circuit court upon the agreement between
the defendant and Morrison,
Mr Justice M'L.AN delivered the opinion of the Court:
This suit was brought -by writ of error from the circuit
court of Kentucky, to reverse a judgment obtained in-that
court against, a claim prosecuted by the United States. The
following errors are assigned by the attorney'general;
VoL. III.--D

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Buford.]

1. That the judgment of the circuit court on the defondant's demurrer to the surrejoinder of the plaintiffs, growing.
out of the sixth, seventh and eighth pleas of the defendant,
ought to have been .for the plaintiffs and not for the defendant.
2. That the c6urt- "red in not permitting the plaintiffs to
withdraw their replication to the defendant's several pleas of.
limitation, and to plead the special agreement on that subject-between Morrison and Buford.
The declaration contains but one count, .in which it is alleged, that the defendant was indebted to the United States
in the sum of ten thousand dollars, for so much money by
him before that time had and received, as an officer of the
United States to-their use, as by account of the said defendant with the- said United .States, settled, examined and
adjusted, at the treasury department, duly certified, fully
appears, &c.
The tr'easury statement is as follows:
Dr Thomas Buford, late deputy commissary in account
with the United States,
To James Morrison, for amount received from
him-per receipt, 21st-December 1812, for which
10,000
he is accountable,
The receipt referred to is in the following words:
Received of James Moirison; deputy quarter niaster general, ten thousand dollars, for which sum I promise to account
to him when called on. Signed Thomas Buford, deputy commissary of U. S. A.
Under the following act of congress,- this receipt was assigned to the United States.
"Be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives, in congress assembled, that the accounting officers of
the treasury department be and they are hereby authorised
to allow James Morrison, late .deputy quarter master general, in the settlement of his accounts, the sum of ten thousand dollars, which was advanced by James H. Pendell, an
assistant deputy quarter master general, providing that the
said James Morrison shall fist assign and transfer to the
United States all his right and claim to the moneys men-.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Buford.]

tioned in a certain receipt by said Thomas B6ford to said
James Morrison, bearing date the 21st day of December, in
the year 1812, &c." The words of the assignment are,
"Now, I James Morrison, in pursuance of the provisions of
said law, do'hereby assign and transfer to the United States,
all my right and claim to the moneys menti6ned in said receipt. Witness my hand and seal this 7th day of Xarch
Signbd James Morrison.
182
Inthe sixth plea the defendant says, the plantiiis m,,
non, because he says that the account upon which the plaintiffs' suit is founded, was for money alleged tQ have been
advanced by James MYorrison, to the defendantj on the 21st
day of December 1812, in the district aforesaid, amounting
to the sum of ten thousand dollars, for which, by the terms
of the transaction and agreement of said parties thereto, said
Buford was to account to said Morrison for the same, and
that said account and claim of said Morrison was, on the 7th
day of March 1823, under and by virtue of an act of congress,
assigped and transferred by said Morrison to said plaintiffs,
and the said aefendant in fact says, that said demand and
cause of action aforesaid, did not accrue to said Morrison
within five years next before saidassignment, mid this.he is
ready to 'rerify," &c.
The seventh plea states the receipt of-the money by the
defendant from Morrison, the assignment of the receipt; d
that without any other consideration, and without the consent and privity of the defendant, the account in the declara.tion mentioned, was settled at the treasury; to which he has
-at no time assented; and the defendant says that he did nor
undertake and assume to pay the said debt,in the declaration mentioned, within five years next before the assignment
.bythe said Morrison, nor then, nor at any time subsequent.
In the eighth plea the defendant says, -that the assumpsit
and demand of said plaintiffs irose from and by virtue of a
claim which was held by one:James Mo'rrison, foi money by
him advanced and loaned to said defendant, which was assigned. &c.

The attorney for the United States, in his replication, says;
that by any thing-contained, in the sixth, seventh and eighth

28

SUPREME COURT.
[]United States vs. Buford.]

pleas of the defendant, they ought not to be barred,, because
they say that the said demand in the -declaration accrued
for and in consideration of ten thousand dollars of and belonging to the United States, and by the said James Morrison, as an officer of the United States, advanced to the said
Thomas. Buford, as an officer of the-United States, to wit, as
deputy commissary, then and there to tfie use of the United
States, and by the said Thomas Buford, in his ofiicial character as aforesaid, receipted to said James Morrison in his official character as deputy quarter master general, and -the
said attorney brings here into court the said receipt, signed
with the proper name of the said Thomas, in his official character as aforesaid, the assignment, and -the act of congress,
in the sixth, seventh and eighth pleas of the defendant mentioned, duly certified, &c. which sum 0f money is the same
as referred to in the above pleas,. &c.
To this replicationibere is- a rejoinder by the -defendant,
asserting that the above sum of money was received upon an
individual- transaction; &c. The attorney for the United
States in his surrejoinder says, that the said money demanded -by the declaration and expressed in said receipt and assignment in the sixth, seventh-and eighth pleas of the defendant, was -the proper money of the United States, lent
and advanced by the said quarter master general to the 'said
Thomas Buford, as deputy commissary, and to -the useof the
said United States, &c.
To this the defendant demurs, ,which presents for consideration, the sufficiency of the sixth, seventh and eighth -pleas
of the defendant.
In behalf of the government it is contended,
'1.
That a good -cause of action by the'United States against
Buford, existed, prior to the assignment.
. 2. That the-treasury settlement gave a right of action aud
also the assignment.
8. If the sum received by Buford*from Morrison was public money, whether it was received in an bfficial or private
capacity, there can be no doubt that Buford received it- to
the use of the United States, andthat they may maintain an
action. against him.
-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

29

[United States vs. Buford.]

The United States -had a right to treat Morrison as their
agent, in this transaction, by making Buford their debtor,
and to an action brought against him, for money, had and re-.
csived, the statute of limitations would be no bar. It 'is
therefore important to consider on what ground the plain-,
tiffs seek to recover in this case..
Is the declaration general or special? It-contains only
one count, and that sets out the cause of action as arising
from a settled account at the treasury department. The declaration ngust therefore be considereda special, and if the
plaintiffs'recover, they must recover upon the ground stated.
The treasury statement, the ret!eipt and the assignment
of.it, are made a part of the declaration.
An aciount stated at the treasury department, which does
not arise in the ordinary mode of doing business in. that department, can "derive no additional validity from being certified under the act of congress. Such a statement. can only,
be regarded 'as establishing items for moneys disbursed
through the ordinary channels of the department, where the
transactions are shown- by its books. In these cases. the
officers may. well certify,. for they.must have official kn'ow,ledge of th6 facts stated..
.But where moneys come into the hands of an individual,
as in the case under consideration, the -booksof the treasury
do not exhibit the facts, nor can they be officially known to
the officers of the -department. In this case, therefore, the
claim must be established, not by the treasury statement,
but by the evidence on which that statement was nmade.
The account against Buford is founded on the receipt, and
was made out on the day it was assigned by Morrison, under
the special aetof congress. Until this time, Morrison was
charged on the-books of the treasury with this -sum of ten
thousand dollars, and there can beno doubt that he and his
sureties were liable for it. •
,As the advance of this sum to Buford was not, made in
pursuance of any authority, the treasury officers had no right
to release Morrison from liability, by crediting his account
with so much money paid to Buford..
-The declaration being special upoh the. treasury account;

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Butord ]

and the account being raised upon the assignment of the receipt, the claim of the United States to the sum in controversy, as presented, cannot be considered as existing prior
to the assignment.
It.is objected that, under •this assignment, the United
States may claim as assignees in equity, but not at law. This
objection s'eems not to be well founded. In England, any_
instrument or claim, though not -negotiable,may-be assighed
to the king, wfio can sue on it, in' his own name. No valid
objection is perceived against giving the same effect to an
assignment to the government in this country. But the special act under whi.ch this assignment was made; puts this
question at rest. This act authorises the assignment; consequently, when made, the legal right is vested in the government, and authorises a charge against Biuford, on the
books of the treasury.
As more than five years had elapsed from the date of the
receipt to the assignment, the statute of limitations will bar
a recovery of this claim, unless the transfer of it to the United
States has changed its character, or the terms of the receipt.
prevent the statute from operating, or, by some promise or
agreement between Morrison and Buford, the statute has
been waived.
It can require no argument to show, that the transfer of
any claim to the -United States cannot give to, it any greater
validity than it posse'ssed in the hands of the assignor. If
the character of the claim be so changed, as to exempt 'it
from the operations of the statute of limitations, after the
transfer, such transfer cannot have the effect to take the
claim out of the statute when it has run.
But it is contended, that as the receipt promises to account
for. the sum of ten thousand dollars, when called on, it was
necessary for the defendant to show, that no demand had
been made, or that five years had elapsed subsequent thereto
and before the assignment.
, In his plea the' defendant states, that the demand and
cause of action did not accrue within five years next before said assignment, &c. If a demand had been made
so as to prevent the effect of the statute, it was incumbent

JANUARY. TERM 1830.
,EUnited States us. ]3uford.]

-

on the ptaintiffs to plead over and allege the fact. They
have not done it, and this allqgation of the plea stands uncontradiced, and is consequently admitted to be true.
.The defendant in his plea sets out, that the loan of the
money was obtained from Morrison, to- whom the payment
was to be made, and represents the transaction as a private
one. In the replication, the plaintiffs do not traverse this
fact, but allege that the money belonged to the United
States, dnd was advanced by Morrison, as an officer of the
United States, to the defendant, asan officer..
On the sufficiency of the plea, and thb insufficiency'of
the replication, one of tho. c6unsel in tlip defence rests the
cause.
In the correct order of pleading, it is necessary that the
facts of the plea ihould be traversed by the replication, unless matter in avoidance be set up. It is not sufficient that
the facts alleged in the replication be inconsistent with those
stated in the plea; an issue must be taken on the material
allegations of the plea.
In the case under consideration, it was material in.-the defence, to show that the loan of this money was a private.
transaction, and such is the statement of the plea, substantially. This fact should have been traversed in the replication. It was not done, and consequently the replication is
bad on demurrer.
The writing set out in the bill of exceptions, it is insisted,
shows a waiver of the statute by Buford. This writing was
produced after the decision of the court was given on the
d'emhurrer, and leave was then asked to withdraw the replication to the plea of the statute of limitations, for the pur-;
pose of pleading this covenant, of which, it was alleged
that the attorney for the United States had no knowledge,
until after the decision on the demurrer.' The court overruled the motion,'upon the ground that the writing would,
nbt be an avoidance of the statute; but afford only a substantive cause of action for a breach of its conditions.
The court, it.is contended, in refusing leave to amend;
decided the effect of this coveriant, and that they erred in
their construction of it..
-

32

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Buford.'

This court has repeatedly decided, that the exercise of
the discretion of the court, below, -in refusing or granting
amendments of pleadings or motions for new trials affords
no ground for a writ of error. In ovbrruling the motion for
leave to withdraw the replication and file a new one, the
court exercised its discretion, and the Teason assigned,. as
-influencing that discretion, cannot affect the decision.
This cause came on to, be heard on the transcript of the
recordfrom, the circuit- court of the United, States for. the
district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel," on consideration whereof, it is considered, ordered and adjudged by
this court,' that the judgment of the said circuit court in
thi's cause be, and lhe same is hereby affirmed.

