JANUARY TERM 1830.

Tim

BANx or TH

Co oNwOmwTi. OF K]nhUcxY vs. WisTAz,
?PICE, 'AND WISTAR.

Where the clerk of the court had omitted to enter trt judgment of this court,
alowing to the defendant in error, on the affirmance of the judgment of the
circuit court, interest at the rate of six per centum per annum as damaged,
and the mandate of this court, although issued, had not been presented to the
circuit court ; the court ordered the judgment to be reformed, allowing interest at the rite of six per cent. The omission is a nmere clerical error.
It is h rule of this court, that where there are no special circumstances, six per
cent. interest is allowed upon the amount of the judgment, inthe court below.
Under special circumstances, damages to the amount of tenper cent are allowed.
[432j

Mr V inton moved to amend the judgment of this court
rendered in this cause at the January term of 1829; 2 Peters,
318; by giving to the defendants in error damages on the
judgment-at the rate of six per centum per annum, and that
the jpdgment of-the court be so reformed.
Mr Vinton stated, that the mandate, though issued, had
never been presented to the circuit court, and it was now in
this court. Under these circumstances, and as the omission
was a mere clerical error, he hoped the motion would .prevail.
Mr Bibb, for the plaintiffs in error, objected to the amendment being made; as the whole subject wat res adjudicata
at the last term; and was not now to be opened. The mandate is a solemn act of the court ; it passes under the view
of the court, and is the. proceeding of the court. The omission it is asked to correct was not a clerical misprisoa. If,
in the course of adjudication in this court, an act of congress should not have been adverted to, would the court, at'
a subsequent term, open their judgment to correct the error
which existed from their disregard of the act9. The rules
of court are not of higher sanctions and if in the issuing of
the mandate that rule which allows interest has not been
applied, the court will not go back to reform what has pass-

. SUPREME COURT.
[Bank. of Kentucky vs. Wistar et al.]

edinto judgmeni. Such a proceeding would expose the
.court and suitors to great inconvenience, and be productive
of frequent injustice.
Mr Chief Justice MARSEULr. delivered the opinion of the
C6urt.
in the case of the motion to amend the mandate, the court
directs the amendment to be made, and the judgment of the
court t~obe'reformed, allowing interest at the rate of six per
cent. The reason is, that by a rule of.this court, when there
are nospecial circumstances, six per cent. interest is allowed' ipon the amount of.the judgment in the court below;
unader special circutmstances, damages to th6 amount of ten
per cent. are awarded by the court. The omission is deemed
by this court a mere'clerical error;
On considerition of the motion made by Mr Vinton, of
c'ouulsel for the defendants in error, in this cause, on a prior
day of this term, tO amend the judgment of this court ren-"
dered in this cause at the January term of this court in theyear'of 6ur'Lord 1829: to wit, on the 14th day ofFebruary
of the said last mentioned year, by giving to the defendahts.
in error in said causd on said judgment damages at the rate
of six per centum per annum: it'is ordered and adjudged by
this court that the said judgment -of this court of February
14, A. D. 1829, be reformed by the amendment of damages
at the -rate of six per centum per annum, so that the judgment read thus : "it is adjudged and ordered by this couft
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this case be,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

