.JANUARY TERM 1830.

BZL .A

ERS, Pz.nTnS n4 ERROR Vs. CUNNINGHAM AND
oND&
Al OTHE,

DETEzNDARTs IN ERROR.

C. & Co., merchants of Boston, owners of a -ship proceeding on freight from
Havana to the ionsignment of B. & Co. at Leghorn and to return to Havana,
instructed B. & Co. to invest the freight, estimated at four thousand six
hundred petsos; two thousand two hundred in marbl& tiles, an& the residue,
after paying disbursements, in wrapping paper. B. & Co. undertook to execute thise orders. -Instead however of !.!vesting two thousand two hundred
petsos in marble, they invest.d all the funds which came into their hands ita
wrapping paper, which was received by the captain of the ship,- and was carried to Havana, and there sold on account of C. .& Co., and produced, a loss,
instead of the profit which would have resulted had the investment been .made
in marble tiles. As soon as information of the breach of orders was received,
C. & Co. addressed a letter to B. & Co., expressing in strong terms their disapprobation of the departure from their orders, but did not signify their determihation to disavow the transaction entirely, and consider the paperassoldon
account of B. & Co. Held, that C. & Co. were entitled to recover damages
for the breach of.-their orders; .that their not having given notice to B. & Co.
that the paper would be considered as sold on their account, did -not injure
their claim; and that the amount of the'damages may be determined by the
positive and direct loss arising plainly and immediately from the breach of the
orders.
If the principal, after a knowledge thafhis orders have been violated by his agent,
receives merchandize purchased for him contrary to orders, and, sells the
same without signifying any intention of disavowing the acts of the agent, an
inference in favour of the ratification of the acts of the agent may fairly be
drawn by the jury. But if the merchandize was received by the principal,
under a just confidence that his orders to his agent had been faithfully executed, such an inference would be in a high degree unreasonable.- [S1]
The faithful execution of orders which an agent or correspondent has contracted
to execute, is -f vital importance in commercial transactions, and may often
affect the injured party far beyond the actual sum misapplied. A failure in this'
respect may entirely break up a voyage and defeat the whole enterprize. Speculative damages dependent on possible, successive schemes ought not to be
given in such cases; but positive and direct loss, resulting plainly and immediately from the breach of orders, may be taken-into the etiffiate. [85]
The jury, in an action for damages for breach of orders, may compensate the
plaintiff for actual loss, and not give vindictive damages. The profits which
would have been obtained on the sale of the irticle directed to be purchased
may be properly allowed as damages. [86]

THIS was a writ of error from the circuit court of Massachusetts, prosecuted by the defendant in the circuit court.
The bill-of exceptions-to the opinion of the court below

SUPREME COURT.
[Bell et al. vs. Cunningham.]

sets forth the pleadings and evidence, and exhibited the following case.
Cunningham and Loring, merchants of Boston, owners of
the brig Halcyon, Skinner master, chartered by them to proceed from Havana to Leghorn with a cargo of sugars, directed Bell, Dle Yough & Co. merchants at that place and
consignees of the brig, to purchase for them, to be shipped
to Havana by the Halcyon on her return to that port, a
quantity of marble tiles and wrapping paper. The letter
containing these instructions-was dated 15 September 1824,
and stated: "the" whole arount of freight received.'at Leghorn will be about four thousand six hundred petsos: please
Invest two thousand two hundred in marble tiles; the balance,
after paying disbursements, please invest in wrapping paper." "We haye further engaged whatever may be neces- °
sary to fill the brig on half profits, on account of which seven
hundred petsos are to be paid in Leghorn : after purchasing
tiles and paying disbursements, you will invest the balance
in paper."
A duplicate of this letter was forwarded, to which the following postscript was added.
"1P. S. We have further engaged whatever may be necessary to fill the brig, on half profits, on account of which
seven hundred petsos are to- be paid in Leghorn. After purchasing the tiles and paying disbursements, you wil.invest
the balance in paper, as before mentioned. In previous orders the reams have been deficient in the proper number of
sheets. We will thank you to pay particular attention to this,
as well as having all the sheets entire."
"This letter was received by-the plaintiffs in error on the
13th of November 1824, and on the 9th of the December following they addressed a letter to Cunningham and Loring,
in which they stated,
P'The order you are pleased to give us for paper and marble tiles, to'be paid for out of the freight of the Halcyon
from Havana, to our consignment, has our particular attention.
"You have done very right to send, on this order, as the
wrapping paper cannot be got in readiness before the end

JANUARY TERIM 1830.
[Bell et al.'vs. Cuhningham.]

of -January, and therefore bad it been, delayed longer, could
not have been in time for your brig Halcyon.
"We have contracted for five thousaiuZ reams, at as near
your 'limits as possible, the article being just now in great
demand. The tiles shall be collected also."
On the 14th of January 1825' they wrote to Cunningham
and Loring:
"The wrapping paper ord6red by yours of the 15th of September, will be in readiness by the end of. this month, andwe shall have bythat time, ready to ship, ten thousand marble tiles of twelve ounces, seven thousand six hundred of
fourteen ounces, and six thousand two hundred of sixteen
ounces, which will be about the investment you desire of the
freight from the Halcyon."
On the 21st of January 1825, the plaintiffs in error informed the defendants of the-arrival of the Halcyon, and on the
2Ist of February they addressed them another letter, stating,
"The sample of wrapping paper sent us by Messrs Murdoch,
Storcy & Co. we found much inferior to any made in this
state, and have executed your order with a much better ar-.
ticle, although the difference in price bears no proportiomn
As your account current after purchasing the paper, which
captain Skinner tbld us was the better aiticle for investment,'
gave only a small balance, we increased a little one quantity
of paper, and sent no tiles,
"We now hand .you bill of lading and invoice, amounting
to P.2801 18 for 473 packages of wrapping paper, shippe&
for your account and risk, on board-your brig Halcyon, John
Skinner master, which if.found right, please to pass accordingly.
"Captain" Skinner has been made aware of the superior
quality of this parcel of paper, and that each ream is composed correctly of twenty quires of twenty-four and not sixteen sheets, as has been occasionally shipped; so that he will
no doubt make an adequate price for it, because in reality the
prices at which it is invoiced, a;e reduced, by this difference,
below those mentioned in your order."
The account current stated the -investment of petsos
2801 18 in wrapping paper, and showed that the balaice

SUPREME COURT.
[Bell et al. vs. Cunningham.]

of the freight and other. assets in the bands of the plaintiffs
in error, belonging to Cunningham and Loring, had been
absorbed in the disbursements of the brig, &c.
The Halcyon proceeded to Havana, and there the paper
shipped by the plaintiffs in error was sold, and the proceeds
accounted for to Cunningham and Loring bj their agents at
that port. Had the marble tiles been shipped as ordered,
thera would have been a 'considerable profit in the transactions, instead of the heavy loss sustained on the sales of the
paper.
Cunningham and Loring, on being advised of the noncompliance, by the plaintiffs in error, with their instructions
of the 15th of September 1824, addressed the following letter
to them:
Boston, lr'l 18th, 1825.
MEssRs BELL, DE YouoH, & Co.
Gentlemen: We have received your favour of February
21st. The following are extracts of our letter to you of 13th
September, directing the investment of the freight per Halcyon. "The whole amount of freighft received at Leg'iorn
will be about 4600 petsos : please invest 2200 in marble tiles;
the balance,: after paying disbursements, please invest in
wrapping paper. We have further engaged whqtever may
be necessary to fill the brig, on half profits, on account of
which 700 petsos are to be paid in Leghorn: after purchasing
the tiles and paying disbursements, you will invest the balance in paper."
We are exceedingjy disappointed that such-positive directions w.ere not complied with: they were given for sufficient
reasons, and without authority to alter them. You omitted
to invest the 700 petsos on account of.the freight of 150
boxes marked T, which we regret, as we wished the funds
at Havana; with this you would have had 4240 petsos, which
would have furnished the tiles, paid disbursements, and. left
1393 petsos to be invested in paper.
Very respectfully,
CUNNINGHAM- AND LORING.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bell et al. vs. Cunningharh.]

One of ihe partners of the firm being in Boston in 1827,
an action was instituted againsf the plaintiffs in error, in the
court of common pleas of the County of Siiffolk, for daniages
for the loss sustained by the plaintiffs; by the conduct of the
defendants; and on their petition; the defendants in the
suit being aliens, was removed to the circuit court of the.
United States for the district of Massachusetts.
On the trial of this cause in.the circuit court, it was in
evidence that the tiles ordered by the plaintiffs in the suit,
could have been procured by th& defendants, and at prices
which would have produced a profit to the plaintiffs.
Durini the trial, exceptions were taken to the opinion of
the court, by the defendants in the circuit court, which exceptions are stated in the opinion of this court, and a verdict and judgment having been rendered for the plaintiffs,
the defendants prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Ogden fbr the pldintiffs in
error, and by Mr Webster for the defendants.
For the plaintiffs it was contended, that the circuit court
had erred in leaving to the jury the construction of the correspondence between the plaintiffs in the court below and
the defendants, of the 15th September 1-824. The e vidence
being written, the construction of it was exclusively with
the court. The course adopted by the defendants was'in
full accordance with the objects of the latter," as the paper
could not be ptocured without previous orders, and they having been given, and the defendants bound to take the paper
so ordered, they were necessarily without the funds required
to purthase the tiles.
The plaintiffs below were bound to give the defendants
notice of their intention to claim damages from them for
non-compliance with instructions, and their neglect to do
this, as well as their having received the proceeds of the paper, was a waiver of all their claims. The letter of the f8th
April "1825 was not such a notice.
The rule adopted in the assessment of the damages waF
incorrect. The plaintiffs below were entitled to no more
than the difference between the cost of the paper which had
VOL. III.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[Bell et al. vs. Cunningham.]

been shipped at Leghorn, and the price of tiles at, that place.
Cited, 1 Vez. Jun. 509.
Mr Webster, for.the defendants in error, said that there
were no questions of law in the case which presented any
difficulty, and the facts clearly established a claim by the
defendants on the plaintiffs in error for a manifest breach of
instructions, and upon these facts the jury had given .their
verdict. As to the rule adopted bythe jury, for the assessment of the damages, they had exercised their sound discretion without any instructions from the court which interfered
with this their peculiar province.
As to the notice of claim, by the defendants in error, of
the 18th of April 1825, it was sufficient. They might have
rejected the articles altogether, or have received the proceeds arising from their sale in the regular course of trade,
and claimed, as they have in this case, damages for the loss.
Notice of claim is not necessary. If the party does not
intend to refuse the article altogether, it is not required;
and the neglect to do so is no bar to a claim for damages.
In this case the letter of the defendants is an express disavoval of the acts of their agents. Cited, Lorain vs. Cartwright, 3 Wash. C. C. R. 151.
Mr Chief Justice MBARSHALL. delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in the
court of the United States, for the' first circuit and district
of Massachusetts, in a suit brought by Cunningham & Co.
against Bell, De Yough & Co., on a special contract.
Cunningham & Co., merchants of Boston, had let their
vessel, the Halcyon, to Messrs Atkinson and Rollins, of the
same place, to carry a cargo of sugars from the Havana to
Leghorn. The cargo was consigned to Messrs Bell, De
Yough & Co., merchants of Leghorn; and Cunningham &
Co. addressed a letter to the same house, instructing them
to invest thd freight, which was estimated at four thousand
six hundred petsos, two thousand two hundred -in marble
tiles, and the residue after paying disbursements in wrapping

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bell et al. vs. Cunningham.]

paper. Messrs Bell, De Yough &Co. undertook-to execute
these orders. Instead however of investing the sum of two
thousand two hundred petsos in marble tiles, they invested
the whole amount of- freight which came to their hands,
armounting to three thousand four hundred and forty-nine
petsos, and seven-thirds, instead of four thousand six hundred, in wrapping paper, which was -received by the captain
of the Halcyon, shipped to the Havana, arid sold on account
of Messrs Cunningham &:, Co.. One of the partners of
Messrs Bell, De Yough & Co. having visited Boston on business, this suit was instituted against the company.' At the
trial, all the correspondence between the parties was exhi-.
bited, from which it appeared that Cunningham & Co. as
soon as informationwas received that their orders had -been
broken, addressed a letter to Messrs Bell, De Yough,& Co.,
expressing in strong terms their disapprobation of this, departure from orders, but did 'not signify their determination
to disavow the transaction entirely, and consider the wrapping paper as sold on account of the house in Leghorn. *
In addition to the correspondence several depositiois
were read to the jury, which proved that the orders respecting the marble tiles might have been executed without-difi culty, but that the house in Leghorn, expecting to receive
more money on account of freight than actually came to
their hands, had contracted for so much wrapping paper as
to leave so inconsiderable a sum for the tiles, that they de-:
termined to invest that small sum also ii wrapping paper.
At the trial, the coinsel for the defendants in the court
below, prayed the court to instruct the jury on several points
which 'arose in the cause, Exceptions were. taken to the
rejectioh of these- prayers, and also to instructions which
were actually given by the court, and the cause is now heard
on these exceptions.
The defendants' counsel prayed the court to instruct the
jury, that the letter of the 9th of December 1824, from thie
defendants to the plaintiffs, was notice to them of the'ex.eioise of the aforesaid-authority in contracting for five thousand reams of paper, to be paid for out of the freight money
of the Halcyon, and -was admitted by the plaintiffs in their

SUPREME COURT.
[Bell et el. vs. Cunningham.]

letter of the 7th of March 1825, to be arightful exercise of
such authority; and that the freight money of the Halcyon
was pledged for payment of the said quantity of paper.
But the court so refused to instruct the jury, because it did
not appear, on the face of the. said letter, at what price the
said -wrapping paper was purchased,. so as to put the plaintiffs-in possession of the whole facts, that there had been a
purchase of paper to an extent, and at a price which would
amount to a deviation from the orders of the plaintiffs,. or
that defendants had deviated from such orders, without
wl;ich there could arise no presumption of notice of any
deviation from such orders, or of any. ratification of any such
deviation from such orders. ' But the court did instruct the
jury, that if, from the whole evidence in the case, the jury
weie satisfied that the letter of the 9th of December, conneeted with the letter of the 14ti of January, did suffi-ciently put the plaintiffs in possession of all the facts relative to such purchase; and ,the- price thereof, .and of such
deviation; and that the letter of the 7th of March, in answer
thereto, was written with a full knowledge and notice of all
the facts, and that the plaintiffs did thereupon express their
approbation of all the proceedings and acts of the defendants
relative to such purcliase, then, in point of law, it amounted
to a ratification thereof, evbn though there had been a deviation from the orders-in this behalf.
This first exception is very clearly not supported by the
fact, and was very properly overruled foi the reasons assigned by the judge. The plaintiffs in that court, when the
letter of the 7th of March 1825 was written, had no reason
to presume that'their orders had been violated, and consequently could not be intended to- mean by that letter to
sanction such violation.
" The said defendants' counsel further prayed the court to
instruct the jury, that; if they believed, from the evidence
submitted to them, that the required quantity of tiles could
be had in season for the return cargo of the Halcyon, without any previous c6ntract therefor, and that the five thousand
reams of paper could not be had in season for said vessel,
without a previous contract therefor, that, inasmuch as the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bell et al. vs. Cunningbam.J

plaintiffs admit, in their"declaration, that they did not furnish the defendants with-freight money enough to'purchase
twenty-two hundred petsos worth of tiles, and pay the disbursements, and pay for the said five' thousand -reams of
wrapping paper, but only with three thousand four hundred
and forty-nine petsos, 7.3, (as in their declaration is expressed), and whidh latter sum was only sufficient for the payment of said disbursements, and for the performance of the
defendants! own- contract in paying for said wrapping paper,
the defendants were riot holden to purchase any tiles, but
were holden'to ship the said five thousand reams of paper on
board the Halcyon, as the property of the plaintiffs.
But the court refused so to instruct the jury; and the court
did instruct the jury, that if the defendants undertook to
comply with the original written orders of the plaintiffs,
and no deviation therefrom. was authorised by the plaintiffs,
the. defendants were bound, if funds to the amount came
into their hands, in the first instance- to apply two thousand
two hundred petsos of the funads which should come into
their. bands and be applied to this purpose, to the purchase
of tiles, and in the next place, to deduct and .1lpl.y as much
as was necessary to pay the disbursements, -and then-to
apply the residue to the purchase of paper: that if it were
necessary or proper under the circumstances to make a purchase. of'-the, paper, before -the arrival of the vessel;' the
defendants were authorised to act upon the presumption
that four thousand six hundred petsos would come into their
hands, and therefore the plaintiffs would have-been bound
by any purchase of paper made by the defendants, ,to the
amount of the balance remaining of the said- four thou'axid
six hundred petsos, after deducting the two thousand two
hundied petsos for tiles, and tte' probable amount of such
disbursements. But that it was the duty of the defendants,
if they had funds, to-deduct in the first instance, from the
whole amount,- two thousand two hundred petsos for tiles;
and if- they did not, but'chose to purchase paper without.
imy reference thereto, it ivas a deviation from the plaintiffs'
orders, and unless ratified by the plaintiffs, the defendants

SUPREME COURT.
[Bell-et al. vs. Cunaingh.am.3

were answerable therefor: that if the defendants had purr
chased paper, before the arrival of the vessel, to the amount
only of such residue -or balance as aforesaid, and the funds
had afterwards fallen short of the expected amount of four
thousand six hundred petsos, the defendants were not bound
to apply any more than the sum remaiqing in their hands,
after deducting the amount of such purchase of papei, and
such disbursements, to the purchase of tiles: and that after
the receipt of the letters of the 20th of September, and the
duplicate of the 15th of September, if the defendants under,
took to perform the orders therein contained, there was an
implied obligation on .them ,to apply the seven hundred petsos mentioned therein for the plaintiffs' benefit, to the purposes therein stated : that,.to illustrate the case, if the jury
were satisfied that the whole funds which came into the:
hands of the defendants for the plaintiffs (independent of
the seven hundred petsos) were three thousand four hundred and fifty petsos, then _tbe said seven hundred petsos
should be added thereto, as funds in the defendants' hands,
making~in the- whole four thousand one hundred and fifty
petsos.
In the .view of the facts thus assumed by the court, and to
illustrate its opinion, the practical result under such circumstances would be. thus: the defendants were authorised to
art on. the presumption of funds to the amount of four thousand six hundred petsos. Deduct two thousand two hundred
petsos -for tiles -and-six hundred. and fift for probable disbursements, the balance left'to .be invested in paper would
be one. thousand seven.hundred and fifty.! The defendants
would then be authorised, if the circumstances. of the case
required it, to caontract for, or., purchase, to the amount of
one thousand seven hundred and fifty petsos in paper, before
the arrival of the vessel: and if the funds should afterwards. fall short or the expected amount of four thousqnd
six hundred petsos, the sum.of one thousand seven hundred.
and fifty petsos, and th6 disbursements, say six hundred and
fifty petsos, were to be first, deducted out of the funds received, and the balance only invested in tiles.. That if the

JANUARY TERM 1830.

79

[Bell et al. vs. Cunninglum.]

funds which actually came to the defendants' hands (without the seven hundred petsos), and ihe sum of seven hun:
dred petsos were also received, the whole amount would be
,four thousand. one hundred and fifty petsosi then the defendants would be justified in deducting-therefrom, f6t:te
purchase of paper, one.-thousand seerr hundred and fifty
petsos, and disbursements six hundred and fifty petsos;
leaving the sum of. one thousand seven hundred and fifty
petsos to be invested in tiles: and to this extent, if there
was ratification, the defendants would be bound to invest
f9r the plaintiffs in tiles, and were. guilty of a breach of
orders if they did -ot so invest, and the plaintiffs entitled to
damages accordingly. But the court left the whole facts
for the consideration of the jury, and stated the preceding
sums only as illustrations of the principles of decisions, if
they were found conformable to the facts.'
This prayer was properly overruled for .the reasons assigned by.the ccurt. The orders were peremptory to apply
two thousand tw6 hundred petsos in the first instadce to
the -purchase of tiles. The residue only of the funds 'which
came to the hands of Bell, De Yough and Co. was applied to
the purchase of wrapping paper; and the instruction that
Bell, De Yough and Co. were justifiable in acting on the presumption that the whole sum mentioned in the letter of Cunningham and Co. would be received; and in contracting by
anticipotion for wrapping paper on that presumption, wasas
favourable to Bell, De Yough and Co.as the law and evidence
would warrant. The only questionablepart of the instruction is that which relates to the seven hundred petsos, mentioned in the postscript of that copy of the letter of the 15th
of September 1824 which went by the Halcyon. That postscript is in these words: "P. S. We have further engaged
whatever may be necessary to fill the brig on half profits,
on account of 'which seven huindred petsos are to be piaid in
Leghorn. After purchasing the tiles and paiying the disbursements, you will invest the balance in paper as before
mentioned. In previous orders the reams have been deficient -in the proper number of sheets. We will thank .you

-SUPREME COURT.
[Bell'er al.vs. Cunningham.j

-o pay particular attention to this, as well as having all the
sheets entire."
The court instructed the jury that if the defendants undertook to perform the oiders, there was an implied obligation
on them to apply the seven.hundred petsos mentioned thereirx
to the purposes therein mentioned.
No'doubt can be entertaiined~of the existence of this implied obligation if the seven hundred petsos were in fact received.- This fact however could not be decided by the.
court, and was proper for the consideration of the jury. If
the court took it from them, the instruction would be erroneous. Some loult was at first entertained 'on this part of the
case; but'on a more attentive cpnsideration of the charge
that.doubt is removed. The -declaration that there-was an
implied obligation to apply the seven hundred petsos as directed in the letter and postscript, is not made in answer to
any prayer for an.instruction respecting the reception of this
money, but respecting its application. The answer there--fore'which relates solely to the application ought not to be
construed as .deciding that it was received. The judge afterwards, .by way of illustration, shows the sum which might
have been invested in wrapping paper consistently with the
orders given by Cunningham and Co. on the-hypothesis that
the freight money would *amount to four -thousand six hundred petsos, and also, on the hypothesis that the additional
sevea-hunidred petsos were received ; an d adds: "But the
court left the whole facts for the consideration of the jury,
and stated the preceding sums only as illustrations of the
principles ofdecisions, if they were found conformable to
the facts." We think then that the 'question, whether the
seven hundred petsos were actually received by Bell, De
Yough and Co. was submitted to the jury. on the .evidence,
and that there is no error ih this instruction.
The defendants' counsel did further pray the court to instruct the jury that inismuch as"the plaintiffs admit, in their
declaration, that the freightmoney received by the defendants
was three thiousand four hundred and forty-nine pets6§.1.3;
and it appearing that 'the whole of that sum had bebri ab-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
Erell etv1. v8. Cunninghbam.]

sorbed in the purchase of five thousand reams of wrapping
paper, disbursements, and ieasenable and customary charges;
and that as the said plaintiffs did accept and sell the said
five thousand -reams of paper. on their own -accotlnt at the
Havana; that such receip.t and sale of the paper on theii account, is, in law, a ratification of the acts of the defendants
,at Leghorn, in the application of the whole of said freight
money.
But the court refused so to direct the jury, betause. the
instruction prayed for assumed the decision of matters of
facts, and because the plaintiffs did not admit thet the sat.
of three thousand four hundred and forty nine petsos 7.3 was
the whole sum or funds received s frdijht money by the
defendants, but contended that the additional sum of seven
hundred petsos ws- so received, and ought to be added
thereto ; and becaijse, whetiher the -receipt and sale of the
paper at Havana was aratificition of the acts of the defendants at Leghorn or not, was matter of fact for the consiilertia ,of the jury' under all. the circumstances of the.case,
and not matter of law to be decided by the court in the manner prayed for.
We think, this instudution. -was ptopefly refused -by the
court for the reasons. assigned by the -judge., It may-be added
in support of the statementmade by the court, that though
the first and second new count in. the declaration claim only
the sum mentioned by counsel in their prayer, the third
claims a larger sum, and consequently left the plaintiffs in
the court below at liberty to ask from -the jury such sum
within the amount demanded by the third count as the.
evidence would in their.opidion prove to have come to the
hands of the defendants. The question whether-the receipt
and sale of the sugars at the Havana-amounted to a'ratificatiop- of. the acts of Bell, De -Yough and Co. at Leghorn,
certainly depended . on the circumstances -attending that
transaction. If Cunningham and Co., with full knowledge
of all the facts, acted as owners of the wrapping paper without signifying any intention of disavowing the acts of their
agents, an inference .in favour. of ratification *mightbe fairly
VOL. III.-L

SUPREME COUAT,
[Bell et akvs. Cunningham.]

drawn by the jury. If the cargo from Leghorn was received
and sold in the -Havana under directions given at a time
,when Cunningham and Co. felt a just -onfidence that their
-orders would be faithfully executed by Belli De Yough and,
Co. such an inference would be in a high degree unreasonable. - This subject was therefore very properly left to the
jury.
And the defendants' counsel furthermore prayed the
court to instruct the jury; as the plaintiffs' first new count,
filed at this term, by leave of court, that, inasmuch as the
plaintiffs have set forth the letter of the plaintiffs to the defeidants of the 1,5th of September 1824, as containing the
special contract between the plaintiffs and defendants;
and as the postscript to that letter contains a material part
of the contract ; and as the said postscript is not set forth in
said count as part of said letter, but as wholly omitted; that
the evidence offered by theplaintiffs, in this behalf, does not
support' and prove the contract as in that count is. alleged.
But the court refused so to instruct the jury, being of
opinion'that the said postscript did not necessarily as a matter of law esta blish any variance between the first new count
and the evidence In the case; and the court left it to the jury
to consider upon the whole evidence in the case, whether
that count was established in proof, and if in their opinion
there was a variance, then to find their verdict for the defendants on that count.
On the 15th of September 1824, Cunningham and Co. addressed a letter to Bell, De Yough and Co. containing the
orders which have given rise to this controversy. This letter
,was sent by the Halcyon* and contained, the postscript mentioned in this prayer for instructions to the jury. It was
received .on the 20th of January 1825.
As the Halcyon was to make a circuitous voyage by the
Havana, and Cunningham and Co. were desirous of communicating the-contents of their letter by that vessel previous
to her arrival, a duplicate was sent by the'Envoy, which sailed
a- few dayg afterwards direct for Leghorn.
In this letter the postscript was omitted.- It was received

JANUARY TERM 183o.
[Bell et al. vs. Cunningham.'

on the 30th of Novembei 1824, and was answered soon afterwards with an assurance that the orders respecting the tiles
and wrapping paper would be executed.
The first new count in the declaration, is on the -special
contract, and sets out at large the letter sent by the Envoy,'
which was fir'st received, and to which the answer applied; in
Which Bell, De -Yough and Co. undertook to execute -the
orders that were contained in that letter. It is undoubtedly
true that a declaration which proposes to state a special contract in its words, must set it out truly; but this contract
was completed.by the answer to the letter first-received, and
the obligation to apply the funds when received was then
created. The plaintiffs below might certainly count, upon
this letter as their contract. Other counts iq the'declarafion
are general, and both letters may be given in'.evidence oil
them. The defendants might have objected to the reading
'of the letter by the Halcyon'on the first new count; but the
whole testimony was laid before the jury without exception,
and the counsel prayed the court to instiuct the jury that
as the postscript was omitted in the letter stated'in the-first
count, the evidence did not support the contract as in that
count alleged.
This prayer might perhaps have been correotlv made, had
no other-letter been giveh in evidence than that received. by
the Halcyon. But as thevery letter on which the count-is
framed, and which was the foundation of the contract was
given in evidence, the court could not have said with propriety'that this count was not sustained. It was left to the
jqry to say whether there Wvas a variance between the evidence and this count, and if in their opinion such vao-iance
did exist, they were'at liberty-to find for the defendants on
that count. If there was any error in this instruction, it was
not to the prejudice of the plaintiffs in error.
The fifth, sixth-and seventh exceptions appear to have
been abandoned by the counsel in argument, and were certainly'very properly.abandoned. These several prayers -are
founded on the assumption of contested facfs, which were
submitted and ought to have been submitted to the juryThe eighth and last prayer is in these words : "The de-

SUPREME COURT.
(Bell et a]. vs.Cunnlngbam.]

fendants' counsel prayed the court to instruct -the jury; that
if they should find that any contract or promise was made by
the defeidants as to tht, purchase - and shipment of twentytwo hundred petsos worth of tiles, and not performed,(bit
broken), that the measure of. damages was the 'value 'of the
said sum oftwenty-two -hundred' petsos at Leghorn and- 'not
at Havana: and that as, the plaintiffs have taken and accepted an6ther article of merchandise at Leghorn, viz. five
thousand r6ams of wrapping paper, of greater ,value thantwo thousand two hundred petsos, and which vas purchased
with the same moneys.w*bich.plaintffs aier'should have been
invested in marble tiles Rs aforesaid, the plaintiffs .are not
entitled to recover any damages in this action.
But the court refused so toinstruct the jury, because the
instruction prayed for -called- upon the court to decide on
matters of fact in cofitroversy before the jur.y. And the court
did instruct the jury that if upon the whole evidence 'they
were satisfied that ,the "orders of -the plaintiffs had been
broken by the defendants in not purchasing the tiles in the
manner stated in the declaration, and that there had been
no subsequent ratification-by the plaintiffs of the acts and
proceedings of the defendants; then that the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover their damages for the breach thereof;
that what the proper damages were, 'must be decided by
them 'upon the whole circumstances of the case; that in their
assessment of damages they were not bound to confine themselves to the state'of things at Leghorn; and they were not
precluded from taking into consideration tue voyage to the
Havana, and the fact of the arrival of the vessel- there, the
state'of the markets, and the profits which might have
been made by the plaintiffs, if their orders as to the tiles had
been complied with ; that the court would not lay down any
rule for their government, except that they were at liberty
to carnpen.ate the plaintiffs for their actual losses siistained,
as a consequence from the default of the defendants, but
they were not at liberty to give vindictive damages..
This prayer consists of two parts. '1st. The measure of
damages-if the jury. should' be of opinion that the contract
was broken. 2. The ratificatiortif, the acts of Bell, De

JANUARY TERM 1.830.
[Bell et azO-s8. Cunningham.]

Yough and Co, by-accepting at Havana :aniother article in
lieu of the tiles.
1. The ineasure-ofdamages. The plaintiffs in error contend, that the value .of the money at Leghorn, which ought
to have been invested in tiles, and'not its value at the Havana, ought to be.t-e standard by which damages should be
measured. That is', if his views are well understood, that the
valuei of two thousand two hundred petgos'at Leg*-orfi, with.
interest thereon, and -not, the value of the- tiles in which. they
ought, to'have been invested at the, Havana, ought to. be
given -by the jury.
This. instruction ought not to have been given unless it be
true, that.special damages for the breach of a contract can,
be awarded under no circumstances whatever; that.an .aclion for.the. breach of contract was equivalent, and only equival.ent, to an action for money had and received for the
plaintiffs' use., Tha.t the breach of contract consisted in the
-non-payment oftwo thousand two hundred petsos; not in
the failure to invest that sum:in tiles. In fact, that under
all circumstances, if no-money came to the hands of the defendants, the damages in such an action riust be nominal.
This can never be admitted'.
The faithful execution of -orders which an- agent or. correspondent has contracted to execute, is of vital importance
in commercial transactions, and may often-affect the injured
party far beyond the actual sum. misapplied., A failure in
this respect may entirely-break up a voyage, aind. defeat. the
whole enterprise. We do not mean that speculative damages,
dependent -on possible successive schemes, ought ever to be
given; but positive and direct loss, resulting plainly and immediately from the breach of brders, may be tiken into the
estimate. Thus in this case-an estimate of possible profit
to be derived from investments at theHavana, of the.money
arising from -the sile of the tiles, taking into view a .distinet
"operation, would have been to trancend the proper limits
which a jury ought to respect; but the actual value of the
tiles themselves, at.the Havana, affords a reasonable standard fdr the estimate of damages. The instructions of the
judge stem to contemplate. this.course, and his restraining

SUPREME COURT.
[Beli et a]. es. Cunningham.]

power would have corrected, by granting a new trial,. any
great excess in this particular. The rule that the jury was
to compensate the plaintiffs for dctual loss f and. not to give
vindictive damdges, is thought by. this court to have been
correct. The declaration expfessly claims the loss of the
prQfits which'would have dccrued from the sale of the tiles.
That part of this-prayer which relates to the ratification of
the acts of Bell, e Yough, and Co. by the- receipt"of the
wrapping paper at the Havana, has been fully noticed in the
observations on the thi-d' exception.
This court is of opinion that there is no error in several
instructions given by the circuit court to the jury, and that
the judgment ought to be affirmed with costs and six per
cent damages.

This cause came on to'be heard.on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States' for the
district of Massachusetts, and was argued 'by counsel; on,
consideration whereof, it is ordered and-'adjudgdd by this
court, that the judgment of the -said circuit 'court in this
cause- be, and the same is hereby'afflrmed,'with costs and
damages, at the rate of six per' centum per annum.

