JANUARY TERM I830.

THE UNUr.tD STATzs, AwPLLATS rO. IsAAc

T. PREsToN,

ATToR-

=r-y Gmisxus or Louisi&vA, Ar1'=X~E.
The offence against the law of. the United States, under the seventh section-of
the.act of congress, passed the 2d of March 1807,-entitled "an act to prohibit
the importation of slaves into any port or place within the jtidrisdiction of the
United States from and after the 1st of January' 1808," is not that of importing
or bringing into the United States persons of colour with intent to hold or sell
Auch persons as slaves, but that of hovering on the coast of the United States
with such intent; and although it forfeits the vessel and any goods or effects
found on board, it is silent as to disposing of the coloured persons found on
board, any further than to impose a duty upon the officers of armed vessels
who make the capture to keep them safely, to be delivered to the overseers of
the poor or the governor of the state or persovs appointed. by the respective
states to receive the same. [65]
The Josefa Segunda, havingjiersons of colour on board of her, was, on the 1lth
of February 1818, found hovering on the coast of the United States, and was
seized and brought into New Orleans, and the vessel and the personson board
were libelled in the district court of the United States of Louisiana, under the
act of congress of the 2d of March 1807. After the decree of condemnation
below, but pending the appeal to this court,-the sheriff of New Orleanswent
on, with the consent of all the parties to the proceedings, to sell the persons of
colour as slaves, and sixty-five thousand dollars, the proceeds, were deposited
in the registry of the court to await the final disposal of the law. '
By the tenth secon ;f the act of 30th of April 1818, the six first sections of the
act are repealed, and no provision is made by which the conaftion of the persons of colour found on board a vessel hovering on the coast of the United.
States is altered from that in which'they were placed under the act of 1807,
no power having been &ivento dispose of them otherwise than to appoint some.
one to receive them. The seventh section of the act of 1818 confirms no
other sales previously or subsequently made under the state laws, but those
for illegal importation, and does not comprise the case of a condemnation
under the seventh section.
The final condemnation of the persons on board the Josefa Segunda took place
in this court on the 13th of March 1820, after congress had passed the'act of
the 3d of March 1819, entitlea "an act in addition to an act prohibiting the
slave trade," bythe provisions of which persons of colour brought in under any
of the acts prohibiting traffic in slaves, were to be delivered to the-president of
the United States to be sent to Africa. It could not affect them.
In admiralty cases a decree is not final while an appeal from the same is depending in this court, and any statute which'governs the case must be -an existing
valid statute at the time of affirming the decree below. If, therefore the persons of colour, who were on board the Josefa Segunda when captured, had been
specifically before the court on the 13th of March 1820, they must have been
delivered up to the president of the United States to be sent to Africa, under
the provisions of the act of the 3d of March 1819, and therefore thereis no

VOL. III.-H

SUPREME COURT..
[United States vs. Preston.]
claim to the proceeds of their sale, under the law of Louisiana, which appro.
priatbd the same. The court do nbt mean to intimate that the United States
are entitled to the movey. for'they bad no power to sell the persons of cotbur.
[65]

APPEAL from te district court for the eastern district
of Louisiana.
The brig Josefa Segunda, a Spanish vessel, proceeding
with a cargo of negroes froih the coast of Africa to the island
of Cuba, was captured on the- 1lth day of February 1818,
off St Domingo, by. a regularly commissioned Venezuelan
privateer, and -on the 24th of the following April she was
seized in the. river Mississippi, by-custom house officers of
the United States, carried- to New Orleans, and there the
vessel and negroes were libelled, at the suit of the United
States, in the district court of the United States for the Louisiana district.
The libel alleged that the negroes were unlawfully brought
into the United States, with an intent to dispose of them as
slave&, contrary to the provisions of the act of congres passed March 2d, 1807, ehtitled an act toprohibit the imporiation
of slaves, &C. 2'Story's Laws U. S. i050. The libel was
filed on the 29th of April 1818, and a claim was put in by
the Spanish owners, alleging an unlawful capture-of the brig;
brig put into the Balize in distress, and without any
thaft
intention to infringe or violate a law of the United States.
rThe district court condemned the brig and effects found on
board to the United States, and the claimants appealed to
this court.
At February term 1820 of this court, the sentence of the
district court of Louisiana was affirjifed; -the court having
been, ofopinion that.4 the alleged unlawful importation could
not be excused on the plea of distress;" and -that 5'where a
capture:is made by a regularly commissioned captor; he
acquires atitle to the captured. property, which can only be
divested by recapture, or by.the sentence of a competent
tribunal; and the captured property is subject-to capture for
a vi6lation by the captors, of the revenue,, or other municipal
laws, of the neutral country into which the prize may be-carried." '5 Wheat. S38.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Preston.)

After the decree of the district court of Louisiana had been
pronounced, and before the appeal to this court, the negroes
luund on board of the captured brig were, under the provisions of the fourth section of the act of congress, and under
the act of the state of Louisiana passed the 13th. of March
1818, delivered by the collector of the port of New Orleaus
to the sheriff of the parish' of New-Orleans; and they were
by him-sold for $68,000, and theproceeds lodged in the bank
of the United States, subject to the order of the district court.
Upon the return of the cause to the district of Louisiana
from this'court, Mr Roberts, an.inspector of.the revenue,-and
others, who alleged that they had made"' military seizures"
subsequent-to that.of the officers of the customs, filed'claims
to the moneys which'were the proceeds of the'sales.of the.
brig and ". ffects," and' of the negroes. :Mr Chew, the-col-lector, conjointly with the naval officersi filed a like claim,
and the court, having. dismissed the claims, of-Robeits and
the asserted "mi l itary captors," afid allowed those of-thecollector and other officers of the" customs, the cause was
again brought before-this court. 10 Wheat. 312.
- This court, at February term 1825; decided that "the district court tnder the slave trade acts, have jurisdicti6n to "
' determine who are the -actual
under a state law'
made in pursuance of, the fourth section of the- slave trade
act."
. The court also decided, that "under the seventh-section of
this act of the 2d of March 1807, ch. 711T
the entire Proceedi
of the vessel, are forfeited t0 the use of the United:States,
unless the seizure be made by' armed vessels of- thec-navy' or
by revenue officers; in which case distribution is to be:made.
in the, same manner as prizes taken from -the enemy. ' "
The- court also decided, ".that under the act'of the state
of Louisiana, of the 13th of March. 826, passed' to carry
into iffect the fourth section 'ofthe. act of 1807, and dirbcting the negroes imported contrary to the act to be 'sold,
and the proceeds to be paid, 'one moiety. for the use of the
commanding officer of the capturing vessel,- and the - othe6r
moiety to the treasurer of the charity hospital of New Orleans, for the use and. benefit of the said hospital ' no other
-captors,-

SUPREME COURT.
[United -Stdtes -s. Preston.]

person is entitled to the first moiety than the commanding
officer of the navy or revenue cutter, who may have made
the seizure under the seventh section of the act of congress."
The case having returned again to the district court of.
Louisianh, Mr-Preston, as attorney general of that state, filed
a-claim on behalf of-that state, setting forth the illegal importatior -of the negroes, that the greater part of them had
been delivered over to the sheriff of New Orleans, that the
sheriff- had disposed of them under -the law of the legislature of Louisiana, thait the proceeds of the sale, $68,000,
-were brought into the district court by the order of the court,
and that part of -the same remains deposited in court. He
insisted that the money belongs to- the state, and' has been
brought into court contrary to law and the rights of th6
state, and- prays for an account, and that the said money
may be paid over to him, so far as the same had not been
disposed of conformal ly to the laws of Louisiana.
In the district court this claim was opposed on behalf of
the United States.
DThe decree of the court was in favour of the claim, and
an appeal was taken by the district attorney .of the United
States to this court.
. The case was argued byMr Berrien, attorney general and
Mr Livingston for the United States ;and by -Mr Jones for
the appellee.
-

For the appellants it was contended:
1. That the proceedings in the district court of Louisiana, upon the claim of the appellee, were irregular, the
matter being of' admiralty jurisdiction, and they should
therefore have been by libel and monition.
2. That all proceedings relative to the matter in dispute
had been regularly terminated by a final judgment of the
supreme court of the United States.
3. That by the judgment of the supreme court, the wholebeneficial interest in the proceeds in question has been adjudged to the United States.
4. That with regard to that moiety of the proceeds, which,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United 'States vs. Preston.]

by the law of Louisiana, was directed to be paid over to the
.treasurer of the charity hospital of New Orleans, the pro.
per claimant was the treasurer.
5. That any claim of the-attorney general of Louisiana to
the money in the district-court is unfounded; the sale of the
negroes having been made without authority, and therefore
void, and the whole amount of the sales hiving been paid
without consideration; and as no title to the negroes was
acquired by the purchase, the money belongs to those who
paid the same to the sheriff of New Orleans. Upon thislas t
point, and on no other, the opinion of the court was given.
For the United States it was argued, upon this point; that
as the decision of this court in the case of the Josefa Segunda, reported in 5 and 10 Wheaton, had established the principle whibhTuled the case, that in reference to negroes-brought
into the United States under the circumstances attending
their capture and introduction they were not placed under
the power .of the legislature of Louisiana, but for the puirpose of being .received by the, sheriff of New Orleans for
safe keeping; the sale made by the sheriff was invalid and
without authority.
The provisions of the seventh section of the act of 1807
are repealed by the act of congress of 1819, 5'an act in addition to acts prohibiting the slave trade," 3 Stoiy's LAws
U, S. 1752.
By this act a changle in the iegulations before adopted by
the United States in relation to persons of colour illegally
introduced into the United States, was established.
The power given by the act of 180.7 to the.states to pass*
laws for the disposition of those persons was repealed by the
"act of 18.19. The United States had before that time been
unwilling to direct the mode in which those persons should be
treated ;and it was considered most proper to refer the same
to the legislation of the particular states into which they might
b brought. By the act of 1819 all such persons so found
in theUnited States, were directed to be transported to Africa.
That act-authorises the president so to remove all negroes
brought into -the United States contrary to the act of 1807,

and repeals ill prior acts repugnant to its provisions.

Be-

SUPREME COURT,
[United States vs. Preston.]

forethe passage of the act of 1819 the negroes who were on
board the Josefa Segunda had.not been fidally condemned;
as there was an appeal from the decree of condemnation in
the ditridt,court, dependingAnd undecided, until February
L820.

Until the final condemnation by this court in 1820, the
nbgroe remained in the hands of the'sheriff of New Orleans,
under the protection of the'United States, not as the property of the United States or of Louisiana, but under their
care. No rights were vested or could vest by the decree'of
the district court, as the appeal suspended the ,operation of
that de cree, until affirmed by this court in 1820.
The sale of the negroes did not and could not become
valid by any consent of the parties before the district court.
Until condemnation, undisturbed by an appeal, no rights
existed in the court to order, or in the parties .to consent to
or authorise the sale.
.Wheii the case was disposed of in this court in 1820, the
whole of the authority of the district court of Louisiana,
which had been exercised in 1818, was at an end, and that
court colild not legally proceed in the case. The aft of 1819
authorisqd the appointment of an agent, and provided funds
for the purpose of removing all such persons, under the di-.
rection of the president of the United States,. to Africa. It
was a necessary consequence of this change ir the policy of
the government, that all the provisions of the law of-1807 repugnant ito its purposes should be repealed, and they were
repealed. .The powers given to the courts to condemn, and
the powers given to the states to legislate in reference to
those persons, ceased at the passage of the law of 1819; and
that JawJ notvithstanding the sale made by the sheriff, found
those negroes among its .objects, and it operated upon them
fully and effectually. This court has decided that no effective
disposition of them had been or could be mde by the legislature cif Louisiana, and they were consequently in the condition stated, and were the objects of the bountiful and liberal brovisions of that law.
It cannot be maintained that the sale was authorised either
bv,the act of 1807, or by the law of Louisiana. The act of.

JANUARY TFRM 183O.
[United States es. Prebton.]

.

1807 gave no power to'the court to consent to or order the
sale, and Louisiana could not interfere until after a sentence
of condemnation, which should be final. The claimant, the
Spanish owner ofthe brig could not give the right to sell
Suchisthe nature and such are the'effects of admiralty proceedings. * It follows therefore, that -themoney' now in- controversy was paid without consideration ; it belongs to the
purchaser of thenegroes ; and it cannoi therefore under any
circumstances belong to the' state of Louisiana.
The sale has been made in the execution of a--special
power delegated by-congress to the legislature of Louisiana.
It is fully established by the decisionsof this court that special powers must be strictly pursued and cannot be exceeded. The act gave no other powers, and did not give this
power.
If the negroes, instead of being sold, had been distributed
among the parties to await the final decree, and after the act
of 1819 had passed, the district court of Louisiana had ordered -them to be delivered to the sheriff of New Orleans for'
sale; looking to"the provisions of the act of 1819 ; to the repeal of the act of 1807, giving the legislatures of the states
power to order a sale of those persons; to the provisions of
the act of 1819 securing to them the privileges of freemen
to be returned to their -native country; to the terms of that
act which embrace negroes delivered to the officers of the
United States before or after the date of this law, could those
persons be delivered to slavery ?. Would they not rather be
subject to the order of the-president to be returned to Africa!2
Cen an illegal sale change.ihe rights of the negroes.
Mr Jpnes, for'the appellee, contendbd,.that on the admissions of the counsel for the United States, if the act of 1819
did not operate on-the'case, oie mqiety of the money'in
dispute belonged. -to: the charity hospital of New Orleans.
The proviiions' of .the act of 1807, taken together,, forfeited
the -negroes, and give the property in them orthe proc~eds
of their sale to the state of Louisiana, by plaing them at
the disposition of the state. By that law, the negroes were
to remain-subject to such regulations as the state may make

64

SUPREME COURT.
[United States ts. Preston.]

for the disposal of them. This gave the property in them to
the state. Placing property at-the disposal of a state necessarily gives the state the property.., This flows essentially
from the sovereign character of a state.
The provisions of the seventh section of the act of 1807,
provide for the corporal delivery of the negioes to the tate
officers. In the custody of those officers they remained
until condemnation; which., as soon as it occurs, reverts to
the time of seizure. It gives no right, -but ascertains it.
The judicial proceedings confirm and improve it, but do Dot
create it. The act of congress having declared to .whose
benefit the forfeiture incurred by the violation of its provisions shall accrue, and that being the 'state, the condemnation does but confirm it.
As to the inv alidity of the sale; it was contended, that if the
admirdfly court had power to order a .sale pendente lite the
agreement that the sale should be made was operative and
equally effectual. The right of an admiralty court. to do so
exists under special circumstances : but consent supplied the
heceiity of such circumstances. It is to'be presumed that
there was an order of court -to'confirm the sale, as the money
arising from. it was 61eposited in the court under itsorder.
The 'property in the negroes having thus become that of'
the state of Louisiana, under the law of'1807; that state having -appointed an officer to take charge of-them, and legislated ats
to the disposal of them under the authority bf that
act; the district court having condemned the negroes befoFe
the law of 1819, antI that ,condemnation- having established
judicially the right zof' the state at -the time of,'seizu'e; the
provisions 6f the law of i819 could not affect rights-thus
given, vested and exeeuted.
Mr Justice JoliNsoN-delivered the'6pinion of the Court.
The case of the Josefa Segnnda has-been twice already
before this court-: the first time upon the question of condemnation; the second, upon the application of several claimants to be preferred in the distribution of the proceeds.
It now comes up upon a claim to the proceeds-of the sale
of. the persons of colour found oi-board at the time-of the

JANUARY TERM 1830.

65

[United Statesis. Preston.]

seizure, interposed by the law officer of the state of Louisiana.
The vessel was condemned under the seventh section of the
act of 1807, passed to abolish the slave trade. By the fourth
section of the act, the state of Louisiana was empowered to
pass laws for disposing of such persons of colour as should
be imported or brought into that state, in violation of that
law. The offence under the seventh section, on which this
condemnation was founded, is not that of importing or briigink into the United States, but that of hovering on the coast
with intent to bring in, persons of colour to be disposed of as
slaves, contrary to law; and although it forfeits the vessel
and any goods or effects found on board, it is silent as to
disposing of the coloured persons found on board, any farther. than to impose a duty upon. officers of armed vessels,
who may capture them, to keep them safely, to be-delivered
to the overseers of the poor, or the governor of the state, or
persons appointed by the respective states to receive -the
same.
The state of Louisiana passed an act on the 13th of March
1818, which recites the provisions of the fourth-and seventh
sections of the acts of congress, and authorises and requires
the sheriff ofNew Orleans to-receive any coloured persons
designated under. either of those sections, and the same to
keep, until the district or circuit court of the'United States
shall pronounce a decree upon the charge of illegal importation.
-The second section makes provision for selling them upon
ireceiving a .certificate of such decision, and enjoins a distribution of the proceeds; one halfto'the commanding officer
of the capturing vessel, the other to the treasurer of the
charity hospital of New Orleans.
In pursuance of this law of the state, it appears, that after
the decree of condemnation below, but pending the appeal"
in this court, the sheriff went on to sell, with the,eonsent,
it is said, of all parties; and $65,000, the sum now in controversy, was deposited in the registry of the court b.elow, to
await the final disposal of the law.
The 20th of April 1818, congress passed another -aton
VOL. III.-I.

66

SUPREME .COURT.
[United States vs. Preston.]

this subject, by the tenth section of which, the six first sections of the act of 1807 are repealed; but their provisions
are re-enucted with" a little. more amplitude; and the fifth
section-of this act, which' professes to reserve to the states
the powers given in the former act, as well as the language
of the repealing clause, in the sqving which it cqntains as to
'offences-; still confines all their provisions to the case of illegal importation thus leaving the seveith section in force,
but without any express power to dispose of the coloured
persons, otherwise than to appoint some one to receive them.
And so likewise the seventh section of-the act of 1818,
,which professes' to confirm sales previously or subsequently
made under'the state laws, confines its provisions to sales
inade'under cofidemnation for illegal importation; thus not
comprising the cases of condemnation under the seventh
sectioh'of.the act of 1807, at least so far as relates to this
offence.
'The final condemnation in this court took place March
13tb, 1820; but previous to that time was passed the act of
March 3d, I819, entitled, an act in addition 'to air act, prohibiting the slave trade; by which a new arrangement is
made as 'to -the digposal'of persons of colour seized, and
brought in under any of the acts prohibiting the traffic in
slaves. By the latter act, they are deliverable to the orders
oftile president; 'not of the states. And the repealing clause
'r&pedls all acts and parts of acts' which may be repugnant
to this act. So that if in the disposal of persons of colour
brought into the Uinited States, the provisions of this act
embrace the case of such persons wheir'brought in under the
seventh gectiorn of the.,act of 1807, the power to deliver them
to the'order of the states was taken. away before the final
decree"in this court.
Suchin ftheopihion of the court, i's ilhe-effect of the act of
1819. And'then the question'is, how 'does it affect tl&present controversy.
. tver since the case Of Yeaton vff. The United States, 5
Cranch, 2.86, the, court has' uniformly acted 'under the rule
established iii that caseto wi4 that-in admiidlty causes a
decree was noQfiatd while it was.,depending here. And kny

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Preston.]

statute which governs the case, must be an existing, valid
statute, at the time of affirming the decree below.
Whatever was the extent of the legal power of the state,
over the Africahs, it is clear- that such power could not be
exercised finally over them at any time previous to the final
decree of this court; we must therefore consider, whether, if
'they had been specifically .before the court at the date of
that decree, they must have been delivered up to the state,
or the United States: clearly to the United States. And then
this claim of the state cannot be sustained.' We would not
be understood to intimate, that the United- States are entitled to this money; for'they had no power to sell. . Nor do
we feel, ourselves, bound to remove'.the difficulties whih
grow' out'of this state of things.
With regard to the ground'of irregularity: if not abandoned by the attorney general, it was but slightly touched upon,
and we know of-no other mode in the existing state of things,
in which the rights of the parties could be reached, according to the course of the admiralty, but that here pursued.
On the question whether the decision in the second cause,
in which the subject of. this seizure was before us, was not
final as to the rights of the United States, we are clearly of.
opinion, that it was not,.as against this party. Although this
question might then have been iaised by the state, and could
as well then have beerk settled; yet it was not raised, nor
was it the interest of any of the parties then before the
court, that it should be raised.
The decree below must be reversed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana,.and was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is ordered, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause
be'"and the same is hereby reversed, and that the said cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded for further proceedins
to be had therein, according to law and jutice, and in coiformity to the opinion of this court.

