SUREME ,COURT.

A=A -'fA
PLAn

THoNTOzN, Exc TIx or WiLr&x THon=oN,
r. ='ERRoR vs. THE BAxK oF WA mnGTO.

The party who demurs to evidence, seeks thereby to withdraw the 'considdratlon
'of thfe facts-from the jury; and is therefore bound to admit not only the truth
14-the evidence, but every fact which that evidence may legally conduce to
.provein favour of the other party,.. And if upon any view of the facts, the
jury might have given a verdict against the party demurring, the court is also
•at liberty to give judgmentagainst him. [40]
The taking of interest In advance upon the discount of a note in the usualcoorse
of business by a banker, is not usury. This has been long settled, aid is not
nowlpen for controversy. [40]
The taking of interest fx sixty-four days on a note is not usury, if the note
given for sixty days, according to the custop and usage in the banks at Wash.ington, was not due and payable until the sixty-fourth day. Inthe case of
Renner vs. The Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat. 581, it was expressly held,
that uhder that custom the note was not due and payable before tha sixty-fourth
day, for until that time the makaeA 1not'be in default. ' [40]
Where it was the practice of the party who bad a sixty day note discounted at
the bank of Washington, to renew the note by the discount c. another note
on the sixty.third day,- the maker not being in fact bound to pay the note ac'cording to the'custom prevailing in the district of Columbia; such a transaction on the part of'the banker is not usurious, although on each note the dis*count-for sixty-four days was deducted. Each note is considered as a distinct.
and substantive transaction. If no more than legal interest is taken upon the
time the new note has to run, the actual application of the proceeds of 'the
new note to the payment of the fotmer'note before it comes due, does mot of
Itself make the .transaction usurious. Something more must occur. There
must be a contract between the bank and the party at the time of such digcount, that the party shall not have the use and benefit of the proceeds until
the former-note becomes due, or that the bank shall have the use and benefit
of them in the mean time.

ERROR to the circuit court of the county at Washington in the district of Columbia.
This case was brought before the court to reverse the judgment of the circuit court on a demurrer to the evidence offered by the defendants in error, the plaintiffs below, to sustain a claim on Mr Thornton as indorser on a promissory
note discounted at the bank of Washington, for the benefit
of one Bailey, the maker of the note.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court,
delivered by Mr Justice STORY.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

37

[Thornton vs. TA'lank of Washingt6n.]

Mr C. C. Lee and Mr Jones, for the.plaintiffs in errojf contended that the evidence offered by the plaintiffs below
proied that usury had been taken on the note, and by the,
statute of usury in Mary!and the note was declared void.- If
usury had been takenf, the judgment'of the circuit court
must therefore be xeversed.
The loan was made on a note payable in sixty days, which
with the days of grace made it a. loan for sixty-three days,
and the' bank had received the interest in advance by way of
discount for sixty-four days.,
The legislation of all manlkind has been against usury;
and the 1egisfation of Maryland has been desirous and vigilant to suppress it. The principle.in al courts acting under these laws has been, thab if usury was fouhd -to have
been-taken, te wit of man would not- evade the statute. The transactions betweeri.the bank and the drawer of the
note are admitted. It was a loan of m6ntey, -and six renewals
of the note took' place in the year, and therefore the interest.
for six days was illegally taken. The series of loans are to
,be cofisidered as one transaction., The notes were given-for
the accommodation of the drawer; and theirreifewals were
expected, and were considered by the borrower and the
bank as a part of the contract. The succeeding note was only
substituted for that which had preceded it, in order to enable
the bank to charge and receive the interest, by way of discount,
every sixty-three days. Every security was therefore tainted
with the usury of the. whole dealing. This position is fully
maintained by the case bf Cuthbert vs. Hayley, 8 T. R. 390.
The law of Maryland relative to usury and .that of England
is the same, as was seen.thy this court in the cae. of Gaither
vs. The bank of 'Georgetown, 1 Peters, 37. Cited also, Marshall, 349. 5 Taunt. -780.. 7 Com. Dig.. Usury, 627. 3
T.R. 530.
The taking of interest by way of' discount was a' device
which was'originally, and long continued to be, considered
a violation of the statute. Barns vs. Worledge, Cro. James,
25. . Comyn on Usury, 82. Noy, 171. '1 Bulstrode, 20a
These cases.are confirmed in Marsh vs.-Martindale, 3 Bos.

SUPREME COURT.
[Thornton vs. The Bank of Washington.]

& Pul. 154, and fully establish the principle that receiving
interest beforehand is usury. Comyn on Usury, 90.
Jt is admitted that the practice of bankers to take "discounPi' is now allowed; but this is upon principles which do
not authorise the practice which prevails with the defendants in error. As late as 14 George II. 7 Mod. 353, it was
held by Mr Chief Justice Wills, that "otherwise the force of
the statute would be taken away." The practice is since
however considered legal for bankers to take interest in advance as discount. The allowance of this practice, upon the
principles by which it is protected, is not evidence that the
general principles of the law are altered. The expenses of
postage, remittance, and commission, are considered as paia
by this advance. Auriol vs. Thomas, 2 T. R. 52. 1'Bos. &
Pul. 144; "Comyn on Usury, 128.
That the principles of the laW as originally established are
not altered, cited Peake's Nisi Prius Cases, 200. Comyn,
125. 4 Taunt. 810. Brooke,, qui tam vs. Middleton, 1
Camp. 445. Comyn, 132.
Barnks are'allowed to deduct interest, arfd, ex vi termini,
discount. Fleckner vs. The bank of the'United States, 8
Wheat. 354. But this does not allow the deduction of a
greater amount than the interest for the actual advance.
The bill of exceptions presents the custom of the bank as a
justification of the proceeding. Custom is no protection.
Floyer vs. Edwards, I Cowp. 112. Dunham vs. Gould, 16
Johns. 361.
It was argued that the practice of the bank to give notice
of the dishonour of the bill on the fourth day after the sixty
days, does not retieve the ca'se from difficulty; as this could
only be done by proof that there was a forbearance until the

fourti day, the very reverse of which is established by the
evidence; nor will the practice of the bank to protest on the
fourth day, and not before, assist the claim. The universal
commercial rule is, that on the third day of grace the note is
due; and on non-payment before or upon that day, the money
may be demanded and suit brought.
The question in this case has been decided in New York.
Bank of Utica vs. Wagner, 2 Cowen's Rep. 712. If more than

JANUARY TERM 1830.
-

[Thornton vs. The Bank of Washington.]

legal interest is reserved or taken, it is usury, whether by
agreement or not. 3 Bigelow's Dig. 796. 4 Mass. 156. 15
Mass. 95.
Mr Lear and Mr Webster, for the defendant in error, contended, that the Maryland law of usury, passed in 1704, simjilar to the statute of Ann, had no application to the case.
It was passed before the establishment of banks. The language is prohibitory as to any "person," and this may include
"corporations sole," but not-corporations aggregate. It is
a criminal law, and a strict zonstruction may be irsisted
upon. The insertion of-a prohibition against taking more.
than six per centum in the charters of banks, is a proof that
the general terms of the usury laws are not considered as ex-.
tending to such corporations. It would not be necessary if
this were the sound construction of the usury law.
In this case*the whole question is, whether there was anagreement for forbearance for the loan of money on which
more than legal interest has beefi taken. It is agreed that,
in England, discount or interest in advance is not usurious.
The facts of the case do not show that the borrower had the
money for less thin sixty-four days. On the sixty-fourth
day, according to the custom of the bank, the note would
be protested. It is admitted that a custom of tradb will not
take a case out of this statute, but it will go a great way
to explain a transaction. 2 T. ,R. 52. "Cowp. Rep.114.
2 W. Blac. 792. 1 Bos. & Pul. 144. 3 Bos. & Pul. 154.
Every new note was a separate transaction. At the end
of each loan .the loan was returned ; and whether by a new
negotiation of. another note, or by the repayment of the
money from other means, does not connect the transactions
or make them the same.
. This is a demurrer to evidence, and every thing is to be
taken in favour of the defendant in error, the plaintiff in
error having demurred in the circuit court. It is enough
for this court if a jury could have presumed from the facts that
the loan was for sixty-four days. The bank maintains that the
b6rrower has had or might hrve had the money for that tim.e,
and interest may be deducted -for that time. The evidence

460

SUPREME COURT.
[Thornton vs. The Bank of Washidgton.]

authorises this conclusion, The jury might have drawn the
coiiclusion, that no unlawful dealing was intended. The
transaction was not considered as a permanent loan. The
bank make no such engagement; and if the borrower of
money thinks proper, for the purposes of convenience or
certainty, to obtain a loan on another note, before.the note
already discounted is due, the bank have nothing to do with
the purposes or object for which the second loan is asked.
There is no necessary connection between the transactions.
Both notes may run at the same time.

Mr Justice STORy,. after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the Court':
This case comes before us on a demurrer to the evicence
in the court below, taken by the original defendant, now
plaintiff in error; and this in' our judgment is very important to be considered in the determination of the case. The
party- who demurs t0 evidence, seeks thereby to withdraw
-the-consideration of the facts from the jury, and is therefore
-bound to adiit not only the truth of the evidence as given,
but every fact which that evidence may legally conduce to
prove in favour' of the *otherparty. And if upon any view
of the facts, the jury might have given a verdict against the
party demurring, the-court is also at 'liberty to give judgment against him.
:The defence' set up against this action by the defendant
is,that the transaction is usurious, within the meaning of
the' statute of Maryland against usury, which, (it is admitted),.is substantially like the English statute on-the same
subject. To .sustain the defence, it has b.en urged' that the
receipts of the interest ini
advance for sixty-four days upon
the discount of the note is usury. But we are all .of opinion, that the taking of" interest in advance. upon the discount of notes in the usual course of business by a bank, is
not usury. ' The doctrine has been long settled, and is not
now open for controversy. The taking of the interest for
sixty-four days is not usury, if the note, according to the
custom and usage in the.banks' at Washington, was not due
and payable until 'the sixty-fourth dAy. That custom was

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Thornton vs. The Bank of Washington.]

completely established, not only by the evidence in the present case, but by that in Renner vs. The Bank or Columbia,
9 'Wheat. Rep. 581, which is referred. to in this. record.
In -the-'latter case it was expressly, held~by the court, thait
under.that custbm the note was not due and payable before
the sixty-4butthday., for'until that time the maker couldnot
-bein default.
Then, again, it is argued, that here there.hayve been successive reriewals 6f the note, or rather successive notes given
by:way of renewal of the original note, and that-these renewals have been on the sixty-third day, and the money,
credited -on that day, on account of the existing note i and
thus in effect sixty-four days interest ha. been taken upon.
loans for sixty-three days bnly. If there had been proved
any. contract between'.the bank and the party for whose
benefit the original discount was made, that.the original note
should be:so renewed-from time to time, and the extra day's
interest thereupon be taken by the.bank; so that the bank
would havb bedn buindto make the renewal, and the party
would have been bound'to renew and:not to pay the note at
maturity; there wouldhave been strong grounds on which
to rest the argument. 'But the difficulty is that -no "skihcbn.'
tract is to be found in the evidence; and the party-demurring to the evidence asks the court to infer it from facts
which do'not 'necessarily import it, and may well admit bf
an explanation favourable: to the other party. It is.quite
c6nsistent with every fact in-the cae, ihat the. original di. cou'nt may.have been made without any such contract; and
that the application for the renewals may have been made
from time to time by the party interested f6r his own accommodation, and without any previous. understanding or, co-.
operatidn on the part of the btnk. For.aught that apliears,
he was at liberty to have paid the original note, or any one
of those afterwards-given, at the time-when it became due.
If of choice he had paid it on the sixty-third day'insteadbf
the sixty-fourth, there is no pretence to say that it would
have been a case of-usury. ' If,instead of payment, he offers
a new note for discount, for the pur'pose of applying the proceeds to the payment or withdrawal of the former note, under
VOL. III.-F

SUPREME COURT.
[Thornton vs. The Bank of Washington.]

the like circumstances;, the case is not substantially varied.
Each note is donsidered as a distinct substantive transaction.
If no more than the legal interest is taken upon the time the
new note has to run, the actual application of the proceeds
of the new note to the payment of the former note, before it
becomes due, does not of itself make the transaction usurious. Something more must occur. There must be a con-tract between the bank and the party at the time of such
discount, that the party shall not have the use or benefit of
the proceeds until the former note becomes due, or that the
bank shall have the use and benefit of them in the mean
time. Such a contract being illegal is not'to be presumed;
it must be established in evidence. The argument requires
the court to infer such illegality from circumstances in their
own nature equivocal, and susceptible of different interpretations; and this in favour of the party demurring to the evidence. Even if the jury mighL "ve made such an inference
from the evidence, we think it ought -t to be made by the
court; for the rule of law requires the court in such a case to
make every inference and presumption in favour of the other
party, which the jury might legally deduce from the evidence ; nor is this any hardship upon the party demurring to
the evidence, for it is his own choice to withdraw from the
jury, to whom it properly belongs, the consideration of the
facts which he relies on as presumptive of usury.
Upon the other point suggested in the cause, whether
banks are within the statute of usury, we entertain no
doubt that they are. But, for the reasons already stated,
we are of opinion that the judgment below ought to be
affirmed.

