. SUPREME COURT.

JAxwrs Bo cE's ExEcuTons, APPELLANTS Vs. Fr.nxaY GRUNDY, APPELLEE.

The courts of the United States have equity jurisdiction to rescind a contract on
the ground of fraud, after one of the parties'to it has been proceeded against %n
the law side of the court, and a judgment has been obtained against him for a
part of the money stieulated to be paid by the contract.
This court has been often called upon to consider the sixteenth section of the
judiciary act of 1789, and as often, either expres§ly or by the course of its decisions, has held that it is merely declaratory, making no alteration whatever in
the rules of equity on the subject of legal remedy.
It is nidt enough that there is a remedy at law: it must be plain and adequate, or
in other words, as practical and as efficient to the ends of justice and its prompt
"administration, as the remedy in equity. [215]
It cannot be doubted that reducing an agreement to writing is in most cases an
argument against fraud; but it is very far from a conclusive argument. The doc.
trine will not be contended for, that a written agreement cannot be relieved
against on.the ground of.false suggestions. [219]
It is not an answer to an application to a'court of chancery for relief in rescinding
a contract, to say that the fraud alleged is partial, and might be the subject of
compensation by a jury. The law, which abhors fraud, does not' permit it to
purchase indulgence, dispensation, or absolution. [220]

APPEAL from the decree of the circuit court of West
Tennessee..
A bill in chancery was filed in that court by the appellee,
Felix Grundy, against the appellants, the executors of James
Boyce, to enjoin a judgment at law which they had obtained
against him for four thousand seven hundred dollars, and to
rdscind a contract made between James Boyce and himself,
on. the-dof July 1818, by which Boyce sold and agreed to
convey Ito the complainant, Grundy, nine hundred and fifty
Acres or arpents of land on the Homochito river, in the
state of Mississippi, and for which Grnnd agreed to pay
him twenty thousand dollars; two thousand"of which were
to be paid in hand, and the balance in yearlj instalments
of, two thousand dollars. A deed of general warranty was,
,by-the written agreement of the partners, to be made to the
purchaser ii four years.
Grundy having failed to pay the aiount of the instal-

JANUARY TRM 1836.

211

[Byce's Executors vs. Gimudy.j

ments due January 1820 and 1821, Boyce's executors.
commenced suit upon the contract for the two first instalments, in the circuit couyt for the 4istrict of West Tennes-

see, and recovered judgment for the same with interest.
On the 30th-of August 1823, Grundy filed his bill, praying
an injunction against .the judgment at law, and a rescigion
of thb contract.
-The grounds of equity stated in the bill and relied on,
were the fraudulent and false -representations of Boyce, in
making the sale of the land.
1. In regard to an isldnd in the river, part of the land
purchased, containing two hundred and sixty-five acres, not
being subject to inundation, except a very small part, easily
prevented; and of the quality of the land on said island.
2. In showing and selling a body of good and level land,
as 'part of the tract, -which is not included within, its limits.
And Tepresenting that a quantity of bad -and hilly ground
was not within the tract, which is included.
3. In representing that-he had a good title to the land;
having no title, and not being able to make a good -right.
The answer of the defendants in the circuit court denies
the allegations charging fraud and' misrepresentation by: James Boyce, and avers Grundy's information as.to the true
state of the title, the quantity and quality of the lands; and
alleges that they have been preventedlfrom obtaining-the
legal titfe by the failure of Grundy to pay the instalments
due upon the cQntract, and which were necessary to enable
them'to obtain a conveyance.
Depositions werd taken on the part of the complainant and
the d6fendants; which vith other testimony were exhibited
in the.circuit court on the hearing'of the cause. The testimony exhibited on the part of the complainant in that
court, fully established the allegations in the bill, to the
satisfaction of the dourt. The wh6le evidence is referred to,
and the facts of the case are sufficiently stated in the opi-.
nion of this court.
The circuit court perpetuated theinjunction, and rescinded
the contract between Boyce and Grundy; and decreed that-

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce's Executors vs. Grundy.]

the money paid by the complainant to Boyce should be
refunded with interest. The defendants appealed to this
court.
Messrs Ogden and Wickliffe, for the appellants, contended:
1. That the-charge of fraud and misrepresentation as set
forth in the bill, in reference to the title, quantity, boundary, and overflowing of the land, is not sustained by proof.
2. That the court below erred, in decreeing a rescision
of the contract, upon the grounds assumed in the decree.
That the court erred in refusing to continue the cause for
"the reasons stated in the exceptions filed by the defendants.
The court erred in admitting, as evidence in this cause, the
papers and parts of depositions referred to in the several bills
of exceptions.
3. The testimony in this cause, the matters of fact involved,
were of*. character which imperatively called upon the

chancellor to direct an issue at law, to try the controverted
facts.
4. The court should have referred the cause to a commissioner, with directions-to report .upon the title.
5. The' decree should have been interlocutory, and not
final. Time -hould have been given defendants to make the
title and tender it, upon the payment or tender of tie purchase money.
The counsel for the appellants, after full argument on
the facts, as to the law of the case, said, that the bill filed
in thecircuit court was to rescind a contracton the ground
of fraud. In all cases of fraud, courts. of equity in England,
and chancery -courts in the United States, have concurrent
jurisdiction with courts of law. Mad. Chan. 258. 6 Johns.
Rep. i10. It is a well settled orinciple of law that fraudulent representations will vitiate any contract. 1 Comyn on
Contracts, 38. In case a contract is obtained by such representations, it will be vitiated and destroyed in its binding
force. If money has been paid under such misreprsenta"tidnq-it may be recovered, back. If a suit be brought at
law upon the contract, the .fraudulent representations may

JANUARY TZRM.'1-830.
Boyce's Executors vs. Grutoy.j

be set up as an effectual defence at law. If the vendee takes
possession of the property, he may abtndon it and consider
the cointract as not binding on him.,
Thus there ii at law- an adequate and a competent remedy,
and full relief can be obtained at law from the effects of
such. a contract.
Has then a court of the United States jurisdiction in the
case .i By the judiciary act, the equity powers given to the
courts of the'United States arp not to be exercised when
there is a full and adequate relief at.law.
2. Fraud cannot be. alleged in most cases where the agreement has been reduced to writing. It is an argument-of
great force against fraud, Sugden on Vendors, 129, upon
the principle that all the. allegations and representations of
the parties will be presumed to have been embodied in the
writing. 4 Taunt. 785.
3. They also contended that after a judgment has been
obtained in a suit in -which the alleged fraud might have
been set up as a defence, no injunction will lie, 3 Merivale's
Rep. 225, 226; Chit. on Contracts, 113. Cited also, Sugded on Vendors, 129. To show that the case was not one
for a' court of equity, .were cited, Hepburn vs. Dundas, 1
Wheat. 179. 5 Cranch, 502. Morgan vs. Morgan 2 Wheat.
290.
Dunfop vs. Dunlop, 12 Wheat. 576. 10 Yes. 144.
3 Bro..Ch. Cases, 73. 16 Ves. 83, 9 Ves. 21. 1 Bro. Ch.
Cases, 546. .1 Ves. & Beames, 355, 356. 1 Barn. & Cress.
623. 5 Dowling & Riland, 490.
Mr Isaacks and Mr White, for the appellee, contended,
that the evidence on the record -fully established the allegations of fraud in the bill, and that the decree of the circuit
court was in harmony with the weight of that evidence. A
fraud had' been committed both as to the quality, the quantity, the situation, and the title of the land.
They argued that the case was one which came fully With:in the jurisdiction of a court of chancery. The construction
of the act of congress, which would limit the chancery
powers of the courts of the United States to cases only in
which there is no concurrent legal remedy, is contrary to that

214

SUPREME. COURT.
[Boyce's Ejecutors vs. Grundy.]

which it has constantly received since the organization of
law.
court
under
theThe
case
madethat
out in the complainant's bill is one peculiarly within the jurisdiction of a court of equity; and the
relief which such a -court-can afford, is the only adequate
means to protect the complainant from gross injustice and
fraud; to restore him to the situation in which he was before
the contract was made. Without this remedy he would be
exposed to a-multitude of suits, and subjected to heavy expenses, for which he could not -be reimbursed. Fraud and
trusts are~peculiarly within the command of the chancery
courts. In support of these principles, the counsel for the
appellee cited, 1 Mad. Chan. 262. 3 Cranch, 280. 9
Ves. 21. 1 Jacob & Walker, 19. 5 Johns. Ch.'Rep. 174.
2 Cowed, 129. 2 Johns, Ch. Rep. 596. 6 Munford, 283.
4 Price's.Rep. -131.
Mr Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the circuit court of
West. Tennessee, 'rendered in a case in which the appellee
was complainant.
The bill was filed to obtain the rescision of an agreement
entered into on the 3d of Xuly 1818, between James Boyce,
the appellants' testator and- devisor, and the complainant; f6r
the sale of a tract of land lying on the Homochito river, in
the state of Mississippi.
The grounds set forth in the bill are fraudulent misrepresentations.

1. As tothe testator's title to the land. 2. As to the
locality of the land. 3. As-to the liability of the land to
inundation. 4.' As to the general description of the character and quality of -part of the land not examined by complainant.
We have weighed the allegations of fraud contained in the
bill, and are well satisfied that they are material, and- such
as entitle the complainant'to relidf if substantiated.
We have also considered the evidence introduced by the
complainant, and compared it with the rebutting testimony.

JANUARY TERM 1-830.
[Boyce-s Executors vs. Grundy.]

introduced by the appellants, and are of opinion that the testimony in support of co*mplainant's allegations is full to the
purpose of sustaining his bill, and the credibility of his wit.nesses .fully established, wherever.it has been necessary; so
that in those points in which it has been contradicted by the
appellants' witnesses, we cannot avoid giving credit to that
'of the complainant.
The decree below must therefore be sustained, unless the
appellants can prevail upon soie legal ground whichwill
except this case from the general rules on this subject. TheF
first and principal ground taken is, that the court of law was
competent to give relief, and that this court should refuse
relief, as well on the general principle as affirmed in the judiciary gct, as because:
1. That the complainant-was not prompt in insisting upon
the fraud as soon as discovered; and
2. Because he did not avail himself of it in a plea, to ihe
action at law.
This court has been often cal led upon to consider the sixt.eenth section of the judiciary act of 1789, and as often,
either expressly or by the course of its decisions, has hold,
that it is merely declaratory, making no alteration whatever
in the rules of-equity on the subject of legal remedy. It'is
not enough that there is a remedy at laI''; it must be plain
and adequate, or in other words, as practical and as efficient
to. the ends of justice and its prbmpt administration, as the
remedy in equity.
In the case before us, although the defence o fraud might
havd been resorted to, and ought. to have been sustained in
that particular suit, and I will add, would have greatly aied.
the complainant in a bill to rescind, yet: it was obviously
not a adequate remedy, because it-was a partial one. The
complainant would still have been left to renew -the contest
upon a-series of suits; and.that probably after the death qf
witnesses.
That he was bound to be prompt in communicating the
fraud when discovered, and consistent in his notice to the
opposite party of the use he -proposed to make of the discoVery, cannot be quesiioned. But we cannot concede to the

.SUPREME. COURT.
tBbyce's Executors vs. Grundy.]

appellants' counsel, that the complainant was chargeable
with. delay or inconsistency in the particulars.
In his bill he alleges that the fraud did not come to his
knowledge until 1821, and that he forthwith gave notice to
James Boyce, that he might resume possession of the premises, and receive the rents and profits, 'for that he would
not comply with the contract; which notice he repeated to
the appellants after Boyce's death.
It has been argued that the testimony establ'*hes. an
earlier notice, and -even a contemporafieous notice of the
facts which the complainant alleges were concealed or misrepresented.
The misrepresentations relied upon are of two classes':
those which relate to the land, and those which relate to the
title.
As to the title; the case furnishes no ground for imputing
to.the complairiant contemporaneous notice of the involved
state it was in. The evidence of the fact of representation
on this subject, rests chiefly on the deed and the letters from
Port Gibson. From these it clearly appears, that so far as
relates to the two hundred acres purchased from Ellis, the
complainant could not, even at the time of sale, have been
put on inquiries respecting the title. For the deed expressly
imports that the whole land sold was .comprised within the
grant to Davis. With regard to the land actually comprised
within the grant to Davis,'if the agreement to make -. present sale of land, for which there was to be made present
and successive payments to a larie amount within four years,
does not imply .a present title or a present power to sell, it
certainly amounts*to a representation, that at the end of four
years the seller would be able to make a clear title.
But since, upon the discovery made at Port Gibson, the
notice given by the complainant was not of an intention to
rescind, but of a claim for a deduction pro %rata,and since
.ime is expressly given to the extent of four years to make
title to. the whole tract; we will not affirm that, in the absence of' any proof of positive loss from want of title in the
interval, if the party had been able to make title when the
bill was filed, and had so answered, and duly set out the title

JANUARY TERM-1836.
[Boyce's Executors vs. Grundy.]

to be tendered, that it would have been a case for relief.
But the defendants in their answer go into-an exposition of
the only title they can offer, and that is so involved and imperfect, that a court of equity would not even refer it. If
then the appellants were now before this court, under a bill
for a specific performance, it is clear that they must be turned out of court, being incompetent on their part to fulfil the
contract. The rules of law relating to specific performance
and those applied to the rescision of contracts, although not
identically the same, have a near affinity to each other.
Again, if the object of the complainant's bill had been confined to obtaining an injunction until he could receive from
defendant a good title to the land; can it be doubted that
where the cause of action at law is a covenant in the same
deed which stipulates for such a title, that he would be injoined, until he made a title '. And if so, how long is this state of
suspense to 1e tolerated '. The title was to be made in four
years; this certainly amounts to a representation. that he
would be able to make title at that time; but twelve years
have now elapsed, and still it is not pretended that a clear
legal estate has-been acquired.
In excuse for this, it is urged that the complainant committed the first fault; that had he been punctual in his payments, Boyce would have been able to procure to be executed
to himself, a title that would, have enabled. him to comply
with his -agreement. But the state of his title is before us,
and a mere tender of money was not sufficient to give him a
legal estate. He must-still have passed through the delays
and casualties .incident to a suit in equity, before he could
have acquired such an estate as would have satisfied the just
claims of the complainant. The case, however, furnishes a
more conclusive answer to thisargument. The two hundred
acres not inclfded in Davis's grant, valued at the average
which complainant would have paid for all the good land actually contained within his purchase, would have satisfied every
payment that fell due within the four years. This deduction he informed Boyce he would insist upon, and there is
no evidence in the cause to make it clear that Boyce did not
acquiesce
this agreement.
VOL.in IIL.-2
C

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce's Executors vs. Grundy.)

It is argued, that of the defects in Pnyce's title the court
could not be informed; that the complainant didnot ask for a
specific performance, and the defendants were not therefore
called upon to set but their' title. But by referring to the bill
it will be seen that they are expressly called, upon to set out
their title, and in their answer undertake t6 do so, and in the
effort, exhibit a titl6 which he cannot deny is defective, but
instead of setting out a title free from defects, content
themselves with showing that the defects are not incurable.
With regard to'the misrepresentations relating to the land,
the only evidence by which it is attempted to fasten on the
complainant a want of promptness and consistency in availing
himself of the discovery when.made, is that by which a
knowledge at the time of the contract is supposed to be
established. Of the witnesses from whom this evidence has
been obtained, it is enough to say, that with the exception
of Mr Poindexter, it is impossible to avoid putting their testimony out of the case. And Mr Poindexter's testimony,
even without his subsequent examination, may, without any
forced construction, be reconciled with that of the witnesses
who testify to the representations made by Boyce at the time
of the sale., It relates exclusively to the subject of inundation, and'when .the complainant spoke to this witness of
the island's overflowing, he accompanied it with the assertion
that the..overflowing could be prevented by a lev6e at a small
expense. This may well be confined to the representations
received from Boyce, and doeq not necessarily imply a knowledge of its being subject to general inundation. Nor was
the information received from Mr Poindexter on this subject
of such a full and decided dharacter as to amount to a communication of knowledge, It is said that it ought to have
put him on inquiry; but he was in possession of Mr Boyce's
positive assurances to the contrary, and had a right to rely.
upon that assurance without inquiiy. The bill alleges the
time of coming to his knowledge to have been that of the
communication authorising the party to take possession, and
the evidence is not sufficient to prove notic at any previous
time.
The second ground on this head of the appellants',argument

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Boyce's Executors vs. Grundy.]

has been partly answered by the doctrine laid down upon
the construction of the judiciary act, on the subject of the
remedy at law. And so far as it relies on the adjudication
quoted from Merivale, we think it unsustained. The position is, that an injunction to restrain proceeding on a judgment at law, will be refused by the court of equity to a
party who had a defence at law and neglected to plead it.
The doctrine of the case quoted, we conceive, has no bearing upon the present. The question there was upon a point
of practice, whether a special injunction should issue instead
of the common injunction; there was no question about the
right to the- latter, but the circumstances of.the case were
such, that the common injunction did not afford full relief
to the party. The rule of practice as. laid down by the
court is, that the special injunction goes only in those cases
in which, from their nature, the defendant can make no defence; such as judgments on warrants of attorney. This
was not such a. case, but the party went for an exception in
his favour, grounded upon a state of facts which brought
him within -the reason of the rule. And it was in fact
granted.
,It
has been farther argued for.the appellants, that reducing
the agreement-to writing precludes a- recurrence to all'representations; and to establish this doctrine, a pagsage from
Sugden has been quoted. It cannot be doubted that, in the
language- of the. author, reducing an agreement to writing
is, in most cases; an argument againt fraud. But it is very
far from a .conclusive argument, as is previously shown by
the same author on the same page. The doctrine will not
be contended, for, that a written agreement cannot be relieved against on the- ground of false suggestions; and,,yet
if the doctrine of this quotationwere the-rule, instead of an
incident to it, such would be the consequence.
There is no :attempt made here to vary thd written agreement; the relief is sought upon the ground, that by false
suggestions and immoral concealment, the party seeking relief was entrapped into an agreement in which he would not
otherwise have involved himself. This is not denying that
the agreement in the record was the agreemept entered into,

• 20

. SUPREME COURT.
(Boyce's Executbrs vs. Grundy.]

but insisting that it was vitiated by fraud, which vitiates
every thing.
It has been further argued, that the misrepresentation, if
at all esLablished, was but of a personal character, and susceptible of compensation or indemnity, to be assessed by a
jury.
On this there may be made several remarks; and first,
that if the facts made out such a case, yet the law, which abhors fraud, does not incline to permit it to purchase indul.gence, dispensation, or absolution.
Secondly, that although, locally, a misrepresentation- may
be partial, yet it may be vital in its effects upon the views
and interests of the party affected by it. Such was the case
of Fulton vs. Roosevelt.
But lastly, the evidence makes out a case very far removed
from one of merely a partial character. North, south, east,
-and west, we find the misrepresentations influencing the
estimate of the va ue of these premises. Indeed, if we are
to believe the testimony of Randel M'Garvick; and its clearness, fulness and fairness speaks its own eulogium; a case of
more general or more vital misrepresentation, can seldom'
occur, or, a case of more absolute devotion to misplaced confidence. Not only for the qualities and incidents, but also
for the lines, the representations of the seller were implicitly
relied on, and certainly to the most important results as to
the value of the property. M'Garvick proves that they were,
carried to a certain fence, which fence excluded a large
knob, as it is called in that country, containing a considera• le body of untillable and wortliless land, and-expressly told
by Boyce that the fence was his line. Thus explicitly declaring that that body-of bad land was not included in-the
land sold him,_whereas in fact it'was included; and in another direction where th6 land was fine, as if to make up the
deficit in quantity to an experienced eye, he represents the
lafid in view as being included within his survey, when in fact
it was not all in-cluded. And suppose the utmost effect be
given to the testimony of the appellants relative to the actual
extent to which the island was subject to inundation; still it
leaves wide ground for the charge of misrepresentation.

JANUARY TERM 183o
Bayce's Executors vs. Grwdy.]

The testimony is full 'to establish that, in several years,
the whole has been overflowed. And the most favourable
state of facts will leave from Pne hundred to one hundred
and fifty acres, instead of fifteen or twenty, subject to this
casualty in ordinary years. "This, although partial in one
sense, is total as to the diminution of the value of the whole.
Compared with the representation proved, it certainly annihilates the very material consideration that it admitted of
being prevented at a small expense, more especially as the
chief injury was to be expected from the waters of the Mississippi.
In a purchase of nine hundred and fifty acres at twenty
dollars an acre, such a discrepancy between facts and repre-sentations as would add thirty-three and a-third, or perhaps
fifty per cent per acre to the cost, is not a base for mere compensation. And, if not a case for mere compensation, there
was no controlling necessity to send the cause ta a jury.
The decree must be affirmed with costs.
-This. cause came on tobe heard on the transcript.of the
record from the circuit court of'the United States for the
eastern district of West Tennessee, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in thiscause be, and the same is hereby affirmed With costs.

