320

SUPREME COUT.

DANMIL SlknqEit, PHIU-M.-LmNGnn, NICOILA8, MAEU.AnET ANtD
JosEP'LnzGEu, Px-IUTH"ur nq TEw
a. THE, LESEE orFon
YounG, ARcm ALD M'CALi, MART CAwAL.Lrm, WmrmA
RB-D .AND A.Nn.HI WIFE, AND- HAHRI9T'CALL.
On a trlal in ejectment, the plaintiffs offered in evidence a number of entries of
recent late, made by he defendants, within the bounds of the tract of land in
disoute,: designated as "Young's four thousand acres;" and attempted to
proyeby a witiness, that Young, when he made the entries, had heard of the
plaintiffs' claim to ihe land. The defendants then offered to introkduce as evidence, official copies of entries made by other and third persons since the date.
of he .plaintiff's' rat; for tfie puipose of proving a general opinion, that the
land contaided In the plaintiffs' survey, made under-the order of'the court,'
tiftdr
the commencement of the. suit,'were vacant at the -date -4f such en-tries,; and to disprove notice to him of the ldentity of plaintiffi" claim, when
he made the entries under which he claiined. This evidence was unquestion.
ably.irrelevant.. E837]"
Entries made subsequent to the plaintiffs' claim,. whatever.nElght have.bebn the
imprdssion under which they were madb, bquid not possibly affect.thi title
held under a prior entry. ([373
The admission of evidence which was irrelevant, but wnich wai ot objected to,
wil,n6t authorize the admissilon ot other irrelevant evidence offered to rebut
-thesame, 'When-the same is objected to. '[33.7]"
The land law of Virginia directs thaf, within three months aftei a sfrvey Ismade,
thi surveyor shall enter the plat arid certificate therdof in booki'well b5ound,
to-be provided bythe court of his county, a t e'.ctinty charge. After pro.
scribing this, among bther duties the law proceeds to enact, that any surveydr
failing in -the duties tf4resaid, shall be liable to be ridicted. - The law, how.'ever, does not declare.that the validity of such survey shall depend in any
- degreeon its being recorded.
[338]
The chief surveyor appoints deputies at his.-vill; anda'o mode of appointment is
- prescried. The survey-made by his deputy is examined and, adopted by himself, and is certified by himself, to the.register of the land office. He recognizes the actual surveyor as'his -deputy in that particular transactibn, arid this,
.fit be unusual or,I regular, cannot affect the grant. 1340]
O~ections which are propbrly .overruled, when urged against a Jegal.. title, in iup
port of an equity, dependent entiiely on a.ourvey of md forwhich a patent
has been issued, can have .ioweight -when urgejdagainst a patent regularly
sued in all.the forms of law..: [8401'
In Virginia, thkpateifle'the eqmpletionn of thetlitle,add es5tab)ihes the perforniance of every pre-requilite. No inquiry into the regularity of those preliminary
measureg,.whicl ought to precede it, is mde in a trial at law. No case has
shown that it may be-Impeached at law.; unless it be ror
fraud. Not legal and
technical, but actual andpositive fidaud,-in fact, comrnfitted by -the-person who,btained It; and even this is questioned. - [340]

JANUARY. TER-M. 1890:

2

[Stringer.et al. be. Lessee bfYdung ettl.]
It Is admitted to have been iniiispensablynpeces-ary t6 the plaifftiffi action. to
show a valid title to the Jand i.controveisy; and that the dfedants'were'at
liberty to resist the testimony, by any evidence tending in any degice to dis-.
'prove this Identity. But the defendarnts were not at liberty to offer eidihc
having no such tendency; bbf whidh might either effect Adiffefent purposiet or
be whQlly, irrelevant. The question of its relevancy must be. decided by.the
:ourt; and any error in its ju'dgmejrt would he correctd bk.an7 appellate tribu.
imlr. the court cannot- perceive that'tie 'omission of 'the surveyorito record
the survey, orthe factthat the surveywa's made by'a person not a regulai deputy, .had any tendency to.prqve thatihe land described in the patent was not
ihe land for
which the suit was Instituted.* [342]
The-wafrant for-the land in controversy wasentered withtthe surveyor of Moion.
•gars- county oh"the 7th of'April -17,84, "At the TWays.essionof that year, tlis
.general assembly of Virginia divided the county of,Monongalid;'and erected a
new county, to take effect in July, by the name of, Harrison. *Theland on"
which the plaintiffs' warrant was entered, laid in the new county. ' ,ThecOrt.''pate of'sui'vey is dated irr December 1784, and in accordance with the entry,
states the land to be;in-Menongalia.
The land faw of Virginia enacts that warrants shall be odged:with t6 surveyor
of the county in which the lands lie, and that the party shall direct the location
specialy ana precisey..It.also directs 'despatch 'in the survey of all fadds
etterel in the offze. No proes= is made f16rthe division of a coun* he"tween the entry and the survey. The ret establish ig t(he
county of Harrison,
does not direct that the surveyor oftMonongalia county shall furnish the surveyor
of Harrison with c6pies ol"thi' entribs of lands which lay in -the new county,
pnd %yitbthe Warrants onwliich they were. made. ,In this state of-things thi
survey of the land in controversy'was made by he surveyor of Monongaliathe plat
and certi6cate on which the patent was afterwards issued, were trans.
r ittod to the land office , and the patent described'the landl as in Monongalia
county. No change.was made -in
the ldw" until 1788. 'This wilf-not annul
thevatent, or deprive the unoffiending patentee of his proppity. [343]
The" misnomer ot a county in a patent for land; sill not vacat6 the patent.' it.
"will admit of explanation,.and if explanation can be receive( th-paent on
whih the misnomer isfound, is not.absolutely void.! [344]

:EPROR. to the district court of the western district of

Virginia.
This was an ejjctment brought.bythe defendants, againsq
the plaintiffs in error, in the -district court of the-United'
States for the western district of-Virginia, exercising circuit
court powers, for the recovery of a tract of four thousand
acres of land in the said district, being a tract lying in the
north-east corner of a large connexion of surveys made
together,, owned by Reed and Ford, thd said Youngs, Thomas Lardley, and others;- some in one name and some in'
others, as appearing by the surveyor's diagram. There was

VOL, III.-2 Q

322

SUPREME COTURT,.

tStringer et a. trA.oegseeofYirn 'etat.)
intiffs, which this writa.verdict'afid judgment. for- ANhe
-reverse.
to
of error is brought
During-the trial the cowisel of' the defendants tdnde'ed
three bills of efeeptions: to opjinions''of the court,, which-are
signed, sealed, and made part-of the record, Vand whickh-re.
substantiilly s"follows:
Thd first bill of exceptionso.staies that-the plaintiffs'below,
or the triil of the case befor6 the distict court,- introduced
a- grant'for' the lands- claimed, which grant is described ihthe third bill ofexceptibhs,. and the plat.*nd report of !he'
,surveyor made in tlie 'cause.
That the plaintiff's also offered in- evidence a numbe .f
entries- of recent .diate,. made -by tho. defendant:8tvingpr,.
-within'the bbufids df li siA land, 's,desigriated on-said
report, as John'Yoiingfs four th6usand acres, beingthe'Iand
claimed :by the -plaintiffs, and attempted to prove by a vitness that Stringer, Wheni he made thoese entries, had heard
of Thg plaintiffs' claim to the -land iit controversy. The
defendants thereupon offered'as'-evidebce- official ,¢ople's of
entries made by others and third -Pei'sbns; since- the date
of. the plaintiffs' grant, for the purposer df'proving a gen'eral
opinion that the lands claimed were. vacant at the dite of
.the said entries, -and i. disprove notice to Stringer of the
identity-of-the'plaintiffs' claim,.when he made -theentries
-'under wfiih the defendantg clainr to hol'd. The court decided 'this .evidence'tobe inadrisgible, to Which thi defendants excepted.
The. second bill of exceptionsi after setting out the plain-tiffs' grant,' states : -that the 'defendants then offered in evidence the surveyoi's book, of Monongalia county, to prove
no such survey: had ever been returned to- the office of said
'urveyor, 'and recorded in the books of the said suryeyor;
and further offered to introduce evidence to prove that Henry.
Fink,,'the deputy upon whose survey the grant purports to
havde issued, resided at the date bf-thesaid survey. in Harrison county, and was not then a deputy surveyor of Mbnon.galia county. The defendants offered the said evidence to
prove that no survey had ever been made, and that the .register issued the grant without proper authority'; on which

JANUARY. TEM? 1830.

323

[Sirogr it al. or. Liestee of Young et al.]

iccount- the same was Void.

The- Plaintiffs-objected to

this evidence as'inadmisiible for. thapurpose stated 1 and
the court rejected it as-such... The defendants counsel then
offered'ihe same evidence to disprove the .identity of -the
land contained in the plaintiffs grait-wilh that no-i laiin.
eu Dy the plaintiffs, and represented by the surveyor's report,
as conltained by-the blue *lines thereon, and there6ri designated by the Roman numeral V. 'The couit also -rejected.
the said-evidence -for the last. menti6ned purpose,. and -the
defend ants excepted
.The third bill bfexceptions states; that.the plaintiffs on
the trial of the cause introducbd a grant in the -wods and
figureg -follwihg,-setting it -forth at large. : Tile grant is
issued ,to John Young, the -esqor, and'dated the- 10th of June
-1'780,,.

for four thousand acres; the-premises -.in question;

bounded as follows, to .wit :describing it by .nietes and.
bounds.
The defehdants thereupon offered in-evidence a- certified
copy of an act -of assembly of Virginia; establishing the
,county of Harrison, and -a -co6py of the certificate of the sukrvey on which the' plaintiffs' said grant issued, dated December 13th '1824, after the act for erecting the county of Har.rison was in operation; and proved that the land puiporting
to be granted, and the land claimed, as having been surveyedi lay in the bounds of the county -ofHarrison; and, upon
this evidence the counsel moved the court to instruct the
jury, that, if they-were satisfied from the testimony that the
lands lay in a -different county from, that in which the, survey imports to have been made, then the grant was void at
law ; an.d that it was not competent for the plaintiffs to con•tradict the call for the county. in the grant., But the court

delivered its opinion that the foregoing facts, if true, should
not avail the defendants in the present action, as the grant
was not void : to which opinion',he third bi.ll of excepti6ns,
islotaken.
The :case was argued by Mr Smyth, for the plaintiffs in
error, and by Mr Doddridge, for.the defendants.
For the plaintiffs, on the first bill of exceptions, it was *on-

-

SUPREME COURT
tStringir et a.vs. Lessee of Young it a.]

tendie ;,4liat the court adniitted- illegal eviddn~e offered by
.the plaintiffs below,' and.stated' in the bill, to go to the jury.
That the coart rejected evidence offered by the defendants
beloiV, which Was proper to. counteract the said evidence
offered by the"plaintiffs.
On the second bill of exceptions -it was argued, that -the
evidence offered was legal, Ahd'should. have been admitid
to the jury.
O" the ihird bill' of exceptiohs,'the counsel for the plaintiffs. contended-'-, that"the court should have instructed the
jury that the 'plaintiffs' grant was not-evidep-ce to support
their claim to -the land in .controversy;' Thbt the court
•should have instructed the jury, thai if they Were' sati.fied,
'from the 'testimony, ihat the lands lay in a'different itounty
from that ii which the survey purports, to have been made,
that the grant was void.- Thaf the cdurt' 'hould have ifistructed"the jury, that the plainti'ffs could not, by parol'evidence, dontradict the call for the county in their grant.
That the court erred ingiving' no instruction on that.point,'
although required so to do by the defefidants ; And.on.the
whole recbrd, the plaintiffs in error contended; that this
'ourt should have decided that the grant under which the
plaiitiffs claimed was void. That -the instru-cti.on of the
'judge to the- jury, that it is no objection to the plaintiffs'
grant that the survey -was made by a surveyor of Mfonongala, in the county of Harrison, is erroneous. That the court
erred in admitting hearsay evidence toidentify corners, and
establish'boundaries, of the lands cfaimed by the-plaintiffs;
and that the verdict is contrary to evidence; and therefore
the court should have ordered a. new triaL
•Smyth,'for- the plaintiffs in error, argued ; that the court
admitted the plaintiff below to introduce illegal evidence,,
as stated'in'the first bill of exceptions.
They produced: copies of a number of entries of recent
date, made by Stringer, one of the defendants below, within
the bounds described in the' surveyor's report; and attempted
t6 prove bKy a'witnessi that'when those entries were made; the
said Stringer had' heaird of the claim of the plaintiffs' This

JANtJAR-Y'.TERM 183b.

325

[Stringer et a]. ,s;
Lessee of Young -et al.]

-was an aftempt to deprive an individual-of the right to -eiiter
vacant land, because he has heard -that another, has a claim
to it. "Has there .ndt-been an atterppt, sandtibned by the
court, to lead. the jury to believe that having heard that another had a claim to the. landthe defendants had rio right'to
locate it, although it might. be vacant 9.H-as there not been
an attempt to lead the.jury,to believe that .the-law of purchaser with, or without- notice, had some bearing-'on.the
cause q The doctrine of notice has -no application to purchasers from the government,- If the plaintiffs' grant gave
-no title, notice to Stringer woulhi not make it good against
him. Suppose that Stringer and some Qther pergon hhd made
entries on the same day, Stringer having heard of Young's
claim, the other. not having heard of it; will:it be contended
that tie one-could, and the other co.uld not, obtain 'a right 9.
What had the plaintiffs toe do with these entries of thedefendants . They could not stand in the way of the claim-of the
plaintiffs, if the.-,had a grant for the land. - :Te fendency ,f
this:evidence, if not the object. of producing.it, was to perplex and mislead tie:jury, ande'xdit a prejudice against-the
defendant Stringer. And the -law is tha. "illegal or- im,
proper. 'evidence, however unimportant- it may be to the case,
ought never to be confided'to the jury4 for if it should have
an influence upon theirminds, it will mislead them; and- if
it should have. none, it is useless, and.may at least- produce
.perplexity." ' 2.Wasl. 28f.
The court- erred in rejecting evidence offered by the defendants,-wbich was proper to rebut the said evidence offered.
by~the plaintiffs.
The illegality of Young's evidence, we admit: but as the
court received it,' thereupon it became necessary and propei to.counteract it. Cbpies of entries, if evidence for the
one party, were evidence for the other; and a gendral reputation that., the land 'was. vacant, was persuasive eviddncethat Stringer had no notice of Young's claim, and believed
the Iand to be vacaftt. This evidence was important to remove prejtdice; and refusing to receive it secured the effect
of the plaintiffs' illegal evidence.

SUPREME COURT.
[Stringer et a). vs, Lessee of Young et al.)

The evidence stated in the second bill of exceptions should
have been left to the jury.
The evidence .bffered was, the book of.the surveyor -of
Monongalia ; and testimony that Henry.Fink, who made the
survey, was not a deputy of the surveyor of.Monongalia in
December 1784, when-the plaintiffs'survey was made. You
cannot, in a' court of law, gointo the cofisideration of a
deed; but you may avoid it, by proving fraud in the exeoution. If there was no 'survey, or only a stirvey by Henry
Fink, as deputy surveyor of Monongalia, when in fact he was
not so$ the signature of the governoi was obtained by fraud.
There is- fraud .in the execution of the deed, which may be
sh'on in a court of law ; so this evidence should, for that
purpose, have been permitted to go to the jury.
The plaintiffs below were to identify their land; their grant.
called for land in Mononkalia, and their survey was made by.
Henry FinAjas deputy surveyor qf Monongalia.; the surveyor's book was oflfred to disprove the identity of the lakd;
the judge refused to -receive the book as evidence, no. matter what it proved. "It never was heard before that the survey was not evidence on the question of identity. And.
if the survey is evidence,. the surveyor's book is evidence.
The grant calls for a corner to the lands entered by George
Jackson. The book might show where those lie.- The
book might prove that the survey began on .the head of the
Glady Fork of Stone Coal creek, and extende' down it.
The land claimed includes the right hand fork of Stone-Coal,
below the mouth of the Glady Fork, and does not include
the mouth of the Glady Fork, w hich.:is a branch of the right
hand fork. The. grant does not say, as the survey does,.
"-beginning at thp hdad of the Glady Fork of Stone Coal
creek." Hence the: necessity of exhibiing the survey ; because it contains evidence of the locality, not in the grant.
If the surveyor's book was legal evidence, it should have
been left to the jury, whether offered for one purpose or
another; but it was rejected by,the court.
On the question of identity, the copy of-an entry is evidence. 5 Wheat. 359, 362.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Stringervet al. vs: Lessee of Young et al.]

The court should have iristructed the Jury, that the plaintiffs' grant was not evidence to support their claim.
The defendants produeed.the act of assembly, which established Harrison county on the 20th of July, 1784; a copy of
the plaintiffs' survey, dated December 13th 1784, signed
Henry Fink, assistant to S. Hanway,-S.M.C.; and proved
that the .lands in controversy lay in Harrison, at the date of
-the survey. The court instructed the jury, that if the-facts
were so, it could-not avail the defendants in this action; and
iihat the grant was not void. If we admit, for the sake of argument, that the grant is not void, it can take no landselsbwhere than.in* Monongalia. And however land-in 'another
county may seem to suit the' description,'they cannot be the.
granted land.. . The grant'is no evidence of title to lands in'
Lewis, a county formed from Harrison. The jury should have
been instructed-that the grant was no evidence of title to
land which lay in Harrison at the date ofthe survey; -The
conifion'we:lth. has'. granted lands in. Monongalia. 'f you
cannot find them there, you can:find ihelir-o whdre else.
Cab a'grant for lanas in the county-of Brooke passandfslying
*inthe county -9fPrincess Anne '.A party must ide:ntify the
iand -acdording-to the call of his grant. If he calls for crossing James river, he must cross James river. Is not the call
for the county the most important of all calls!
Should it be contended that the surveyor of Moriongalia
might survey, in Hairison, lands entered in Monorigalia before
Harrison county was formed, it is.a'nswred, this was never
authorized: and in-ihis act the sheriffof Monongalia-is specialLy authorized to complete his business'in Harrison; but
no such authority is givel to the surveyor.
The court should have instructed the jury that the plaintiffs could not by parol evidence contradict the call for the
county in the grant under which they claim.
There is no latent ambiguity. In Dowlie's case, 3 Coke's
Rep. 9, 1-0, the grant was. held void because the parish-was
wrong named. But if parol evidence could have been offered to contradict the call for the name of the parish, the'
grant would have been made good. A grant in the county
of S. will not pass what lies in the county of D. 3-Bac.

328

SUPREME COURT,
[Stiinger et a]. vs. Lessee- of Youvgeat A8].

Abr.'89. But if parol evidence could have been received
to'contradict the call for the county, the grant would Ihave
been made goad. A grant to onb, as a knight, when. he is an
esquire, has been held void. 'But this would have been remedied, had parol evidence been'adinissible.
Parol evidence is admissible to yary or contradict, the
grant. *2Cranch, 29. The name Hosmer- in a grant, cannot.be proved by parol to be Houseman. 12 Johns. 77. In
'the appendix to. Pothier on Obligations, the law is thus laid
down (Vol..2i p. 210): 1'But where there is in existing.
subject' to which a descriiption may be properly applied,
par6l evidence cannot be allowed that a different subject
was intended." Here there is an existing subject, the county
of Monongalia, to which. the description, lying in the county
of Monongalia, may. be applied.
The court'was asked to instruct the jury, "that it is not
competent to the plaintiffs to contradict by.parol the call for
the county in his grant," and gave no instruction on that
point. The court, when asked for an instruction,. are bound
to give the instruction.asked for, or angther on the same
point. 2 Wash.'272,278.
"The court hould have decided, that the gran't under which
the.plaintiffs claimed, was void.
It is contended, that a grant is void if there is an insufficient or false description; or if it has been obtained on a false
suggestion; or if*it has been obtained by fraud-; or ,ifit has
been obtained against the rules of the land office. And that
in all these cases, if the objection .appears on the face of the'
grant, or if it judicially appears, the grant is void.iii.a court
of law.
As to an insufficient r z false description. If lands are described as lying in a Wrong parish, the. grant is void. Cited
3 Bac. Ab. 388. 2 Co. Rep. 10. 2 Mod. 3, 4. Anderson,
•148. 4 Cruise, Dig. 225.
It is therefore contended; that this grant is void, for an
insufficient and false. description. And it always was within the jurisdiction of a court of law-to declare, that for such
a defect, a grant-or any other deed of conveyance was void.
*See 14 Vin. Abr. 100. 2 Co. Rep. 33. Hobart, 171.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Strin'ger t a1

329

a.Lessee of Young-et aL.

It las been 'iecided that.to omit the name of the county
will nQt vitiate the grant, if there is otherwise a sufficient
description of the. land... But to give the npme of the county,
and give it falsely, is a defect that never was excused. - 5
Mumf.. 52G. Let us consider the- consequences to which'the
false description in the grant in question would lead. One
searches the records of Harrison, arid the books ofithe com-.
missioners of the revenue; he finds po notice of any such
grant; he searches, the office of the surfeyor of Harion"
and Monongalia; he finds no survey recorded.
Recording a deed in a wrong county is a fatal. objection,
wfien urged by a'purchaser without notice. So, after the'
district of Zanesville was-formed from that 'of-Marietta, the
lands in Zariesville ,district.could not be purchased at the office of Marietta. If land's ought to be conveyed by. a deed
recorded in -the proper county, so'they ought.to be granted in
the. proper county. 4 .Whet. 478, 479. 5 Cranch, 92.
i Wash, C. C. Rep. 322.
Of the false suggestion. The commonwealth's'grant.is.4ues on the suggestion of the grantee, and on -evidence'
offeredby.him, true or false, that he has'complied with the
law. A grant on a false suggestion is vohM. The king be-ing deceived, his-grant ii void. He should:be truly informed.,
If.the suggestion is false of the parties' knowledge, the grant
is-void. .5 Bac. Ab.'602. 10 Co. Rep. 1.12. 1'Co. Rep.
46,',52. Skinn. 656. 5 Co. 94, 113. Yelv..48. "Lying in
Monongalia," is the suggestion, of .the grantee, and it is
false. The grant is notice to. all mn that the grantee does
not claim lands in.Harrison. The commonwealth is deceived;
and', every citizen is deceived who may-see this grant,; and
locate the lands claimed in Harrison.
. The king's grant can do no wrong ; rather than do wrong,
it is void; where it would do wrong, it. is. void. 1 Co. Rep.
44. Shep. Abr. 91. Here fees are due* to the surveyor of
Harrison county and the college. The grant is issued on a
survey made by a man falsely pretending to be a deluty
-surveyor of Monongalia; the surveyor- of Harrison is certainly. defrauded.
The grant has been obtained by fraud. The register had
VOL. III.-2 R

SUPitEM" COURT.
[Stringer et al. vs. Lessee of Young et al.]

no authority o issue a grant for lands in Harrison. In this
way all the vacant land in Harrison might have been.surveyed as in Monongalia, and granted as in Monongalia, und
thus the-surveyor Qf Harrison be defrauded of his fees. They
are a part of the-consideration ; a portion of them is appropriated to the college. The governor supposed that the surveyor's fees were paid. -The -commonwealth is interested
that her officers shall receive their, does, and that the. college shall receive the fund appropriated for the support of
education. 5 Wheat-. 293, 303. 5 Mumf. 522.
A grant fraudulently obtained isloid. In the- case of
Huidek55per's lessee'vs. Burru*, judge Washington -deciddd
that a patent for land is only primafacie evidence of title;
but if the previous steps for vesting a title be not performed;
proof of such omission will defeat the -same. b Harris &
Johns. 223. 1 Wash. C. C.Rep. 109. 1 Harris & Johns.370.
2 Harris & Johns.- 456, 458. 1 Hen. &-Mumf. 306, 307-.
Perhaps it will be said that although the grant might have
been repealed by petition in chancery, yet it is good in a
court of law. It is contended that the statutory provision
of Virginia for repealing grants, does pot affect the authority of the common law courts to declare grants void. It
is a new remedy in some cases ;- in others it is -conclusive ;
in others it does not apply ; and this is one of those latter
cases. There is no law by which this grant may be repeal.ed':..for he who would repeal a grant, must have a prior
equitable claim. We are taught that for every wrong there is
a remedy ; but there is no remedy for this wrong, unless a
court of law may- adjudge this grant void. Might one have
taken all the'good lands in the county o~f Cabel by plats
fabricated, purporting to have been made by the surveyor
of Henrico, had them granted as lands lying in Henrico,
sold them as'lands lying in Henrico; and have the title adjudged. good, because there was no prior equitable claimant
to ask for a repeal of the grant .?
The providing of a remedy by the repeal of patents,
obtained regularly and without fraud, in favour of a prior
equitable claimant, -did riot take away the power.of courts
of law-to adjudge grants void for insufficiency or fraud. The

JANUAAY TERM 1830.

33

aLexseeof Young'et-ah]
.Stringer et al;I.

Engrish courtk bf lAw declare- grants and btbeir deeds void,
on'trials of writs of. right and ejebttients. Virgiia Ilhas.
Where- is the aet .\f
adopted -the common -law 6f Englahi.
asseipbly that takes this power from her'dommoon law cott-ts
The law which avoids a' grnt .js the same*in Virginia, as
in'Enland. Judge Blhckstonie says,- a pateiht is void in a
coutt-of law,' if'the cause appdars oi its face. 2 8lackA.
348. Judge Roane. says:the shme.thipg. 1 Mumf. 141,". Is
it requireothat'the falsehood 4nd'the tigt6 s;ha.lrbdth appear
on-the- face'of the grant..' : Certainly 'n6. The falsehood
appears on the face of the. grant;"the truth.appears by the,.
vidence in thecauge-;and -.then tle grant is aljudged'void.'
In this case the, truth -a.ppears by the. record, and that which avoids. the grant;: appears bn its'face. It calls for. lands'in
Mdfiongalia. If the. la9ji claimed is idntified in Hari'is'on,
that circumstance reners,:rhegranrvoid ; for on its face,-it.
appears that the land was-surveyed aftbr-Hairison bdean-e a
county.-When it appears judicially-that the king is de.ceived) his:
graht is void.-. Skin. 659. 6 Mumf. 120;
It is not- necessary to. repeal a- grant: unless' that grant;
unrepea!ed, confers a title: .buf this grtaifit cohfers.no tide
to land in .Harrison, -therefore-it-is unnecessary to. repeal it'.
With regard. to deeds, a; distinction ha' been iakeri, ihit
you eannot;.in a. court of law., invalidate them br.proving a
frdud in ttli
consideration b bdtihat you- may prove .a"fraud
in the execution. Here we say the execution.was~obtainea
by fraud.- The.governor-was, by falsehodd, ihiduced-to exe.
.cute thegiant. Would he have signetl it.had-Ie 'been truly.:
.informed 1- Certaialy-nor.
-1i'has b6en decided, in Virginia, in a similar"case, that, a.
grant might. be declared void-in a coutt 'of law;- hindthat
decision'ha-nxever been .declared not to be law. HambledohVs. Wells.
Mr-Dbddiidge, for the defendaint in error. The matters al-leged in the first bill of exceptions are- ivholly uiimporlanf.
The testimony offered and- rejected, was not receivable' for
any purpose. .. he plaintiffs tood oni the'ofdes, grant,-or the
only grant appearing in the cause; and in'sich a ease, esides

332

SUPREME GQURT.
[Stringer et a]. vs.Lessea'bfYoung:et al.]

the formalities affirmed by the common rule, the only ques.lion between the parties was that of identity, 'and neitherfor this 'nor for' any other purpose were they permitted to
look behind the grant. Thi's will hereafter be provddi whenconsidering ife questions raised by the second and third bills
of exceptions. The evidence offered and given by'the plaintiffs, except the grant and surveyor's report, was unnecessary.;
as he had 'nothing to 'dowith.the cpnscience" of Stringer,
perhaps, it might be admitted that this testimony wa improper; yet it was not objected to, But the'testimony offered
'bythe defendants and' rejected,:was improper in every view.
It was offered to prove' a general belief that the bond was
a fact which, if admitted, could avail them nothing.
vacant -;
The questions raised by the second bill of exceptions are
1. Whether a defendant, when a legal grant for the land
claimed, and the official survey on which it is founded, are
given in evidence agains; him, can avoid the grant, by show'ing, by the book of surveys, that the survey was not recorded
and by parol .prof'that the deputy was not the deputy of
'
the surveyor certifying 'the p~it, but of another surveyor?
... Whether the.defend'ant can offer the same evidence to
disprov.e the identtity'of the land .
'The question 'raised by the' third bill of exceptions was
this. The official plot and certificate 'of survey is dated the
13th of December 1784; and the plaintiffs? grant thereon the
10th June 1786. The county of,Harrison was created the
3d of May 1784. The law commenced in force tle, 20th of
July 1784. So that when the survey bears date, the county
of Harrison was in being, and the land in fact was. in that
county; and the question isiought the cQurt.to have instructed'
the jury that,:if they found tme-e tacts, the grantwas void at
law, and that the plaintiffs could not disprove the descriptive
call, "Mbnongalia county," in the survey and the granto'
The questions raised by the' second and third bills of exceptions may be considered together.
1. The first'positioni is;. that the parties can go behind
the grant for nothing in an action at law, because evidence
before the grant would take the party by surprize; and because, the grant is, ipsofacto, an appropriation, and the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Stringer et al. vs. Lessee of Young et al.]

question to be determined is the identity of 'the thing
granted. Again; in the case of'a land office warrant, in
Virginia, the entry is, and -he survey is not,. an, inceptive
appropriation. The'title is transferred by the grant, towards
obtaining which. tile survey is .but a progressive step. Even
the en.try'.cannot be brought before the court. Wilson vs.
Mason, I Cranch, 45; 101. Johnston vs. Brown, 3 Call, 359,
268. M'Ar.thur vs. Browder, 4 Wlieat. 488, 491. Finley
vs..Williams, 9 Cranch, 164, 167.
In the case of a military warrant under the colonial government, it was otHerwise. There was no entry, and'of
course, the survey was an inceptive act of' appropriation.
Taylor vs. Brown, 5 Cranch, 234, 241.
-It follows that the warrant in the latter case, 'without any
other act, conferred on the surveyor ar authority to survey;
vhereas, under the land law of Vi-rginia, of May session 1779,
ch. 13, the warrant must be lodged With the surveyor, and
the party.must make an entry on the land he selects. This
entry, alone, confers on -the surveyor tne authority to survey and his-certificate of survey proves as well that the possession of the warrants were necessary, as the entry under
which he' surveys; as under we military warrant it proved
the possession of the war-- t. That is, it~proves the existence of the authority by aich it was made. Taylor vs.
Brown. 5Cranch, 234, 24L.
.2. The whole duty of a surveyor, in -relation to a survey
and' retording it, is prescribed by'the act of 1779, ch. 13.
10 Hen. S. L. page 57.
These. duties are again prescribed in 1784, -by 'n act reducing into one the several acts concerning surveyors; 10
Hen. S. L. page 352': but by the latter act these duties are
n6t varied. These laws reqtire 1he surveyor to run, and
'plainly mark and bounid the survey, except where
tie same
is bounded' by water courses, the lines of surveys before
made. The' require him, in.. his' cer.tificate, to note the
boundaries, courses, and distances, variation from the true'
meridian, and to set down, the names of adjoining owners,
and-of the hundreds,'where any are established;' and to observe a due proportion betweenlength and breadth. The

SUPREME COURT.
[Stringer et al. vs. Lessee of Young et al.]

law does not expressly reqi're the county to be named, but
it is admitted that it does so impliedly.
Yet, as a survey is, a progressive step, anid those duties
mnrely directory, it has been holden that the' name of the
owner of the survey itself may be mistaken in the certificate
and.grant, and both contradicted by parol testimony; as
where the survey imported to be made for one Vinegard, it
was allowed to bre proved that, in fact, it was made for one
Unrod. Johnston vs. Buffington, 1 Wash. 116.
That the duties imposed on the surveyor are directory,
and the omission to perform them. does not affect the right
of the party, is settled by this court in Craig vs. Radford, 3
Wheat. 594, and several other cases.
3. The name of the county is matter of general description,
and although a surveyor ought to state it truly, yet if he does
not, the name of the county may as well be corrected by
evidence as 'the name of the owner. If he misstate it, he
fails in his duty ; but this shall not injure the party.
In a grant, a description that will identify the land is all
that isnecessary. M'Arthur vs. Browder, before quoted. Ifeven a location have certain material calls sufficient to support it, and -to describe the lands, other calls fess material'
and incompatible.with the essential calls may be disregarded. Taylor vs. Brown, 5 Crancfi, 234, 241. Now, water
course's are natural, material,.permanent and.essential calls;
while the lines of a county, are immaterial and artificial
ones.
4.. The omission of the name of the county does not vitiate
a grant, which proves, this description immaterial. -M'Lean
vs. Tomlinson, 5 Mumf.- 220, 223.
The patent in that case, on its fate, purports to have issued
on a certificate of survey, bearing date the 14th of July 1773;
on warrants of a subsequent date in that and the next year,
and the name of the county is left blank. The court decided
the omission to be immaterial, the patent containing other
sufficient descriptions, as "at the round bottom' "on the
Ohio," &c. &c.
Theihistory of that title is as follows: general Washington
procured a deputy surveyor of West'Augusta to make a pri-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

335

[Strlnger'et a]. vs. Lessee of'Young et al.]

vate survey for him in 1773. He possessed the filednotes,
and afterwards purchased wa rrants to cover it of a date subsequent to his private survey. -InOctober 1776, the counties of. Monongalia, Ohio aid Yohogania, w 'eformed out
of West Augusta.. See Hen. S. L. V'ol 9, 262, 269. Thie
law creaing thesecounties to'bk effect the 8th of November 1777; 263. After ihis'period, the surveyor oT-'West
Augusta ceased. to, be surveyor -of'either of those counties; yet on these:privote. field notes, and of the acquired
warrants, he returned a plat and certificate of survey ; but
not knowing into which, of :tbose new counties the Jand -fell,
he left the name blank.
Here the survey was made without any authority whatever;
the special verdict having found the true date of the survey
and warrants, and all this appearing on the face of the grant;
and yet it was sustained as valid at law.
5. But if it were granted that the surveyors book'of surveys
could be produced for any purpose, it would follow of course,
and, a fortiori,that'the book of entries could also be produced; which would be contrary to'the decisions ofthis court,
and Of the courts of Kentucky. If parties in another county
were 6upposed to be ready to do this, then the real fact would
appear, that the entries were made in Monongalia, while
Harrison was part of that county, and remained unsurveyed °
at the time of the separation.'
The date of the entry does not appear from the patent,
and the true 'date of the survey does not appear in the case
otherwise than by the- certificate. This date shoutd,.be
controlled by thp certificate that the lands gre in Monongalia county, which, they could not l'e at'the date of the certificate. Or if the c6urt would not sustain the position, then"this.
court have already decided that the official certificate of- a
-survey 'roves the authority by which the same was made,
.and therefore proves a good and valid entry madd in-Mon6ngalia before the separation of the counties, and at that 'time
remaining unsurveyed.
Ifit is contended that this entry ought to have been certified to.the surveyor of the new county, the law on the subject is misunderstood. Prior to the act of October, session,

636

SUPREME COURT.
tStringer et a]. vs. Lessee of Young et al.]

Tth, ch. 5"1, there was no provision for so certifying an entry. See 12 Hen. S. L. 709. The preamble puts the matter
beyond dispute.
. An uns.urveyed entry remains subject to forfeiture if not
surveyed in time, and all the duties and responsibilities
attached to that surveyor with whom the entry was made.
Should he have stated the lands to have been in Harrison
coun.ty at the time of survey . If so, he has made a mistake.
Ought he to have recorded the survey,, and did he fail to do
so !. Then' he has, in both cases, failed -in the discharge of
a directory duty, merely; by which the right of the party is
not impaired.
Mr Chief Justice. MAsHAtL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was an ejectment brought in the court of the United
States for the western district of Virginia. The jury found a
verdict for the plaintiffs, on which the judgment of the court
was rendered; which judgment has been brought to this
court by writ of error. At the trial, three bills -of exception were taken to opinions. given by the court to the jury,
and the cause depends on the correctness of these opinions.
The first bill*of exceptions is in substance; the plaintiffs at
"thetrial of'this cause produced ha grant, (setting it forth in
words and figures therein.) This grant is issued to" John
Young, dated the 10th of June 1786, for four thousand acres,
bounded as follows: Beginning.at a black oak corner to land
entered by George Jackson, and running thence" N. 30 W.
1001 poles, crossing waters of Stone Coal creek to a beech,
thence N 80 ° E 641 poles, crossing a.branch.of said creek to a
white oak S. W° E. 1001 poles, by lands surveyed for Thomas
Laidley, to' a white oak, and thence S. 80 ° W. 660 poles,
crossing. waters by lands of said waters to the beginning.
Also the plat-and report of the surveyor, Thomas Haymond,
made in. this case, in pursuance of-an order, &c. The plaintiff also offered in evidence a number ,of entries of recent
4ate, made by the defendant Stringer within the bounds of
the tract of land designated on said report as John Young's
four thousdnd acves, being the land claimed by the plaintiffs;
and.attempted- to, prove by a- witness, that Young, when

JANU RY TERM 1830.

337

[Stringer et al. vs. Lessee df Young et al.]

he made said entries, had heard of the plaintiffs' claim to the
land in controversy. The defendants thereupon offered to
introduce as evidence, official copies of entries made -by
other and third persons, since the date of the plaintiffs'
grant, for the purpose of proving a general opinion that the
lands contained in the report and diagram of the surveyor,
made in this cause, were vacant at the date of. such entries,
and to disprove notice to Stringer of the identity of the
plaintiffs' claim when he made the entries under-which the
defendants claim; but the court declared its opinion to be
that the said evidence was inadmissible, and rejected the
same.
The testimony offered by the defendants.was unquestionably irrelevant. Entries made subsequent to the plaintiffs'
grant, whatever might be the impression under which they
were made, could not possibly affect the title, and were therefore clearly inadmissible. This principle has never been
controverted; but the plain'tiffis in error insist that they had
a right to introduce this testimony, in order to rebut other
.equally irrelevant testimony which had been offered by the
plaintiffs in ejectment. This testimony was the recent entries made by Stringer, and the witness who proved that at
the time of making them, he had no notice of the plaintiffs'
claim. This testimony was undoubtedly irrelevant, and had
it been opposed, could not have been prqperly' admitted.
Had the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury that
it must-be utterly disregarded, that it must not be considered
by them as testimony, and this instruction had been refused,
the refusal to give it would have been error. The defendant,
however, has not taken this course; but has chosen ro repel
the testimony by other evidence, which was clearly 'inadmissible. Whether a case may exist in which improper testimony nlay be calculated to make such an impression on the
jury that no instruction given by the judge can efface it, and
whether in such a case testimony not otherwise admissible
may be introduced, which is strictly and directly calculated
to disprove it, are questions on which this court does not
mean to indicate any opinion. It is unnecessa.ry, because the
testimonj rejected by the court is not of this character. EnVOL. III.--.2 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Stringer et a. vs. Lessee of Young etA]

tries made subsequent to the plaintiffs' grant by others, can
havie no tendency to disprove the evidence -of-notice by the
defendant -when his entries were made..
Th, second bill of exceptions Js in these words. Upon
the trial of this cause, the plaintiffs, in sIapport of the issue
on their part;introduced a grant to the lessor of the-plaintiffs
in iXhe wotsd an figures following:. " Patrick Henry, &c;"
The defendants _thereupon offered to introduce the surveyor's book of Monongalia county, to prove no -such survey had ever been returned to--the, office of said surveyor,
and recoided' in the book of said office; and further, offered
to introdtce evidence that Henry Fink, the deputy upon
Whose urvey said grant purports to have issued,,resided at
the date of the said survey in Harrison countyi and was not
a deputy surveyor of Monongalia cotaty. The. defend4nts
offered said evidence to prove the said grant issued without
any survey having been made, and tliat the register of the
land office issued- said grant without *proper authority, -and
thatthe same'.was therefore void.. To the giving of which
evidence the plaintiffs, by their counsel, objected, and. the
court declared-its opinion to be, that such evidence could dot
be given for' the purposes aforesaid, and rejected the same.
.Whereupon the defendants, by their counsel, offeredthe same
evidence to disprove' the identity of the land contained in
the plaintiffs' grant with that now-c.laimed-by the plaintiffs,
and represenied by the- figure in the said sutrveyors report.
But the court declared- its opinion to be, that the said. eVidence ought not to. be received for the last mentioned purpose.
In rejecting this testimony, the court decided that the
non appearance of the survey on which the grant of the
plaintiffs had been issued -on the book of the surveyor of
Monongalia county, where 'it ought to have been recorded;*
and the fact that the person who made the survey was not
at the time a deputy-sufveyor bfMonongalia countyf could
not avoid the patent; and that the evidence of those, facts
was consequently inadmissible,
The- land law of Virginia directs that within three.months
after a survey is. made, the surveyor shall enter the plat and

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Stringer et 0I. vs. Lessee or Young et al.]

certificate thereof in a.book, well bound to be provided by
the'court of his county, at the county charge. After 'prescribing, this among other duties, ,the law proceeds tO enact,
that any surveyor failing in any of the duties.aforesaid, shall
be liable to be. indicted, &c., The law, however, does not
declare that the validity of such survey shall depend in any
degree on its being" recorded.
The act also direct;s, that the surveyor. "shall, as soon as
it can conveniently be done, and within three months at the
farthest after making tho survey, deliver to his employer or
his order, -a fair alid trueplat and certificate of such survey,"
&c. . This plat and certificate is to'be returned into the land
office within twelve n~onths at farthest; It may.be returned
immediately, and consequently may be retuined to th land
office before the expiration of the three months allowed to
'the surveyor for recording it in his book. This plat and certificate of survey is an authority to the register to issue a
patent.
The*surveyor undoubtedly neglects his duty,, if lie fails to
record the plat and certificate of survey, and is punishable
for this neglect,; but the act furnishes no foundation for the
opinion tfiat the validity of the survey or of the patent is in
any degree affected by it.
This point occurred in the case oi Taylor vs. Brown, 2
Cranch, 234. That was a suit in chancery, brought by a
junior patentee to establish an elder equitable title against
the elder patent. Both claimed -under old military surveys,
made in virtue of military warrants, granted for servicei under the regal government, an entry of which with the surveyor 'was not. 'required biy law; consequentlythe survey
was the foundation -of a title to be asserted in a court. of
equity, against a title which was valid at law. The omission of any circumstance affecting histitle was not, as in this
case, cured by the patent.
In answer to the-objection that the survey was not recorded within the time prescribed by the act of 1748, which contains a similar provision-to that which is found in the present
land law, the court said "this section is merely directory to
the surveyor. It does not make the validity of the survey

340

SUPREME COURT.
[Stringer et al. vs. Lessee of Young et al.]

dependent on its being recorded, nor does it give the pi6-

prietor any right, to cbntrol the conduct of the surveyor in
this respect. His title, where it can commence without an
entry, begins witly the survey; and it would be unreasonable to deprive him of that title, by the subsequent neglect
of an officer not appointed by himself, in not performing an
act which the law does not pronounce necessary to his title,
the performance of which he has. not the means of coercing."
We adhere to this opinion.
The circumstance that Fink, who'ig stated not to have resided at the time in Monongalia, nor to have been a deputy
surveyor of that county, has also been considered as vitiating the patent.
The chief surveyor appoints deputies at his will, and no
mode of appointment is prescribed.. The survey made by
his deputy is examined and adopted by himself, and is certified by himself to the register of the land office. He re•cognizes the actual surveyor as his deputy, in that particular
transaction ; and this, if it. be unusual or irregular, cannot
effect the grant. This point also appears to have been substantjally decided in the case of Taylor vs; Brown.. In that
case Taylor's survey was made by Hancock Taylor, who was
killed by Indians, so that he never returned the plat'and
certificate of survey to William Preston, the principal surveyor, as was required by law. His field notes, however,
were brought to the principal surveyor, who made out a
plat and certificate of survey from them. To the objection
that the plat and certificate not having been returned to the
office, the survey was not completed, the court answered,
"this survey then is in law language made by William Preston. It is confirmed as a survey made by him. The law
recognizes it as his survey. Assuredly then his certificate
may authenticate it."
It cannot escape observation, that if these objections were
properly overruled when urged in support of the legal title,
against an equity dependent entirely on the survey; they can
have no weight when urgred against the validity of a patent
wiich has been regularly issued'in all the forms of law.
5
of title, and estaTn-Virginia. the patent is, he 6mpletion

JANUARY TERM -830
[Stringer et al.
vs. Lessee of Young ef al.]

blishes thq performance of every. pre-requisite. No inquiry.
into the regularity of those preliminary measures which
ought'tb precede it, is made in a trial at law. 'No case has
shown th'atit may be impeached at law, 6nless it befor fraud;
not legal and technical, but actual and positive, fraud in
fact, committed by the person-who obtained it; and even
this is questioned.
- In Hambledon. et al. vs. Wells, reported in a note in"
1
Hen. & Mumf. 307, the defendants in ejectnhent in the district-court offered evidence to prove that the grant under
which the lessor claimed, was defectivein several pre-requisites to a patent. The court of appeals overruled these objections; but determined "that the district court &rred.in
not permitting the appellants to give evidence that the appellee procured the plat on which the patent was obtained
to be returned to the office, knowing that an actual survey
had not been made." In this case the objectionable act was
a fraud knowingly committed by the patentee himself. Even
this case has been questioned; though not, as far as is
known, expressly overruled.
In Witherington vs.'Donald, I Hen. & Mumf. 306, the
defendant in ejectment offered evidence, to show that the
survey upon which. the plaintiff's patent was founded was
illegal; and also that the patent was obtained upon a certificate signed by Charles Lewis, as clerk of the land office,
instead of being signed by the register or his deputy, as is
required by law. The defendant excepted to the opinion
of the court rejecting this testimony, and appealed to the
court of appeals. The judgment was unanimously affirmed
in that court. In the course of the trial, the case of Hambledon vs. Wells was mentioned by several of the judges
with disapprobation; and it was said, that a single case decided by three judges against two, was not considered as conclusively settling the law.
The case of Hoofnagle vs. Anderson, '7 Wheat. 212) was
a suit in c hancery, brought to obtain a conveyance for a
tract of land in the Virginia military reserve, in the state of
Ohio, for which Anderson had obtained a patent. After its
emanation, the plaintiff had located a military land warrant*

342

SUPREME COURT..
[Stringer et al, vs. Lessee of Young et AI.]

on the same land, issued for services. performed by an offcer
in ihe Virginia line, on continental establishment. The services performed by-tfiofficer on whose warrant Anderson's
patent had beenaissued, were -in the tate line ; th.ough the
warrant was expressed, by mistake, to be for servicesin the
continental lie. This court -said, "It is not doubted that a
patent appropriates the land. Any defects in the preliminary
steps which are required by law, are cured by the patent.
It i-.a titlefrom its date,-and has always been held conclusive against all -whose right,'did. not.commence. previous to
its emanation.)!
After the rejection of this testimony, when offered to defeat the patent, it was offered for the purpose of disoroving
that-ihe land contained in the patent was the same land
claimed in the suit. The court rejected-it-when offered for
this-purpose also.
It is. admitted to have been indispensably necessary to the
plaintiffs' action, to show. a valid title to the land in controversy ; and that the defendants were -at liberty to meet this
testimony by any: evidence tending in any degree to disprove this -identity. But th defendants were not at liberty to
offer evidence having no 'such tendency, but-which might
either effect a different purpose, or be wholly irrelevant.
The question of its relevancy must be 'decided by the court;
and any error in its judgment would be corrected by an appellate tribunal.
Now this court cannot perceive that the omission of the
surveyor to record the survey, or the fact 'that the survey
was made by a person not aregular deputy, had any tendency to prove that the land described in the patent was not
the land for which the suit was instituted.
' The third exception stated that the plaintiffs had
offered
in evidence a-grant as set forth in the second bill of exceptions, &c. The defendants thereupon offered in evidence a
certified copy of an act of the assembly uf' Virginia establishing the county of Harrison in the words and figures following: "An act for Ilividing, &c." and a copy of the certificate of survey on which said grant issued, in the words and
figures following: "December 1Sth 17S4, &c." and proved

JANUARY TERM:1880.

343

ESinger,et a vs. Lessee of Young et il.]

that the land purported to be-granted,.and the land claimedas haying been surveyed, lay in the bounds of'the county of
Harrison,- established as- aforesaid- and therefre-the&defendants moved to-instrUct the jhry, that if they are satisfied, from
the. testimony, that the la-nd lay-in. a 'different county from
that in which- the survey pprpofts.to- have been made, that
the grant was .Void; and. that it was not conmpetent.for- the
plairitiffs t6 .9ontradicfthp callfor the couhty.inr the patent
and survey; but the.court then'and there. de6lared its opinjon to the jury;'thht if even the facts, aforesaid were~true,
they. could not avail'the defendants'in the-present action, and
that the grant -under.these circumstances would not be void.
The warrant was-entered. f6r the land in controversy. with
the surveyor -of Monongalia county, on the: 7th of'April 1784.
At 'the May session of that year the general assembly divided
the county of Monongalia, and created -a new county, to
take effect in"July, by.the name of 'Harrison. The land on
which Young's warrant Was entered lay in the now county.
-The certificate of survey is.dated in December -1784, and, in
accordance with the entry, "states the land to lay in .Monongalia; .The grant. conforms.with the certificate.
The land law'of Virginia enacts that warrants shall be
lodged'wih the surveyor of the county in which the lands
lie, and that the party shall-direct the location tiereofspecially and precisely.. Italso -eqacts, that "every chief surveyor shall proceed.with all practicable dispatch to survey.
all lands entered for in his office." -No provision is made for
the division of a cotinty between the entry and survey. The
act establishing the county of Harrison, does not direct ihat
the surveyor of the county of Monongalia shall furnish the
surveyor of the new county with copies of. the entries of
lands lying in Harrison, and with the warrants on which they
were made. In this state of things the survey was made under the authority of the surveyor of Monongalia, and the
plat and certificate on which the patent afterwards issued
were transmitted to the land office. It was not till the year
1788 that the legislature passed an act on this subject, which
directs that when any county shall be thereafter divided, the

SUPREME COURT.
[Stringer Qt al. vs. Lessee of Young et al.J

surveyor of the new county shall be fqrnished with copies of
the entries of all thie surveyed lands lying in his county.
If in this uncertain state of the law, the surveyor of Monongalia county has surveyed an eitry properly made in his
office, for land which by a subsequent division of the county
falls into Harrison, and has made his certificate as if the
county still remained undivided; ought thi error, if it be an
error of the officer, to annul the patent, and deprive the unoffending patentee of his property.The counsel for the plaintiffs in error has produced several
cases to show that a mistake of this character in a r.oyal
grant, or any misinformation to the officers of the crown,
will vitiate the instrument. We are not sure that grants
which may be supposed to proceed from royal, munificence,
are to be'placed precisely on the same footing with grants
which are the- completion of a contract of sale,,every pre-liminary step in which is taken by officers appointed for the
purpose by government, who act without the control of the
purchaser. After making his location, he may show the land
located, but has nothing to do with the authority of the surveyor, or the language in which he nay make out his plat
and certificate -of survey. In this caso there could have
been no imposition attempted on the government by the
purchaser. The mistake is accounted for, and there can-be'
no imputation on the intrinsic fairness *of the transaction.
The misnomer of the county might take place, as has been
suggested at the bar, in a case in which all the proceedings
were perfectly regular. Had the survey been made the day
before the law dividing the county of Monongalia took effect,
the plat and certificate of the surveyor mut have stated the
land to be in Monongalia. The patent could not have issued"
until six months afterwards, and must have stated the lands
to lie in Monongalia; although at the time of its emanation
they would in fact lie in Harxison. To say in such a case
that the misnomer of the county could avoid the patent,
would shock every senso of justice and of law-too much to
be maintained. This misnomer of the county then must
admit of explanation; and if explanation can be received,
the patent is not absolutely void.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Stringer et al. vs. Lessee of Young et al.]

*The circumstances on which the motion to reject the
grant was made, might be very proper for the consideration
of the jury, on the question whether it comprehended the
iand in controversy ; but do not, we think, destroy its validity.
A vast deal of testimony, of which the court can take no
notice, is crowded into thi record. The bills of exceptions
taken to thd opinions of the district judge present te only
points which we are at liberty to consider. In those opin-.
ions there is, we think, no error. The judgment is affirmed,
with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from, the district court of the United States for the
district of West Virginia, and was argued by counsel; on
consideration Whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said district court in this
cause be, and the same is. hereby affirmed with costs.

VOL.

[I.-2 T

