JANUARY TERM 1830.

THoaAs WmsoN, P

43

NxTnm n Enuoi og. ANDPRSoN WATmIs,
DhiPENDANT in ERUtoR.

It is an undoubtea principle of law, fully recognized by this court, that a tenant
cannot dispute the title of his landlord, either by setting up a title in himself
or a, third person, during the existence of the lease or tenancy. The principle
of estoppel applies to the relation between them, and operates with full force
to prevent the tenant from violating that contract by which he claimed and
held the possession. He cannot change the character of the -tenure by his
own act merely, so as to enable himself to hold against his landlord, who reposes under the security of the tenancy, believing the possession of-the t6nant
to be his own, held under his title, and ready to be surrendered by its termination, by the lapse of time or demand of possession. [47]
The same principle applies to mortgagor and mortgagee, trustee and cestui que
trust, and generally to all cases where one man obtains possession of real estate
belonging to another-by. a recognition of his titl. [48]
In no instance has4he .principle of law which protects the relations between
landlord and tenant, been carried so far as in this case, which presents a disclaimer by a tenant with the knowledge of his landlord, and an unbroken possession afterwards for such a length of time, that the act of limitations has run
out four times before he has done any act to assert his right to the land. [48]
When a tenant disclaims to hold under his lease, he becomes a trespasser, and his
possession is adverse, and as open to the action of his landlord as a possession
acquired originally by wrong. The act is conclusive on the tenant. He cannot revoke his disclaimer and adverse claim, so as to protect himself during
the unexpired time of the lease. He is a trespasser on him who has the legal
title. The relation of landlord and tenant is dissolved, and each party is to
stand upon his right. [49]
if the tenant disclaims the tenure, claims the fee adversely in right of a third
person or in his own right, or attorns to another, his possession then becomes
a tortious one, by the forfeiture of his right, and the landlord's right of entry is
complete, and he may sue at any time within the period of limitation; but he
must lay his'demise of a day subsequent to the termination of the tenancy,
for -before that he had no right of entry. By bringing his ejectment he disclaims the tenancy and goes for the forfeiture. It shall not be permitted to
the landlord to thus admit that there is no tenure subsisting between him and
the-tenant which can protect his possession from this adversary suit; and at
the same time recover on the ground of there being a tenure so strong as that
he cannot set up his adversary possession. [49]
A mortgagee, or direct purchaser from a tenant, or one who buys his right at-a
sheriff's sale, assumes his relation to thelandlord, with all itslegal consequences,
and is as much estopped from denying the tenancy. [50]
If no length of time would protect a possession originally acquired under a lease,
it would be productive of evils truly'alarming, and we must be convinced beyond a doubt that the law is so settled, before we would give our sanction to,
such a doctrine; and this is n6t the case upon authorities. [51]

SUPREME COURT.
[Willison vs. Watkins.]
The relation between tenants in common is in principle-very similar to that between lessor and lessee. The possession of one ii the possession of the other,
while ever the tenure is acknowledged. But if one ousts the other, or denies
the tenure, and receives the rents and profits to his eiclusive use, his possession becomes adverse, and the act of limitations begins to run; so of a trqstee, so of amortgagee. [51]
In ielation to the limitations of actions foi the recovery of real property, the court
think it proper to apply the remarks of the'learned judge who delivered the
,opinion of the court in the case of Bell vs. Aforrison, 1'Peters, 860, and to say,
the statute ought to receive such a construction as will effectuate the beneficent obj ectiwbch it intended to accomplish, the becurity of'titles and the
qdietirg of-possessions. That which has been given to it In the preient case
is, ve think, conformable to its true spirit and intention, without impairing any
principle heretofore established. [54]

EIRROR to the circuit court of the district of South Ca-rolina.

An action of trespass to try titles was brought in the circuit court of South Carolina, on the 20th of April 1822, by
the defendant in error, against the plaintiff in this court, for
the recovery of six hundred acres of land situated on the
Savannah river. The title claimed by the plaintiff below
and the evidence are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
On the trial in the circuit court the defendant proved that

Samuel Willison, his father, had possession of the -land in
1789, and cultivated it till the period of his death in 1802,
from which timehis widow and family possessed it until the
death of his widow in 1815 ; and that from 1815 until this
action was brought, the children retained possession by tLeir
tenants. That in the lifetime of Samuel Willison,Bordeaux,

through whom the plaintiff, claimed, was apprised that he
claimed to hold the land by an adverse title. That the widow
in 1802, on demdnnd made, refused to give possession to
Ralpfh S. Phillips who claimed the landnnd 'Set up a title
in herself, and was sued as a trespasser. That in 1793, Bor-

deaux and Willison were in treaty for the sale of this land;
Bordeaux wishing to sell, and Willison to purchase. The
plaintiff then offered in evidence a power of attorney from
Bordeaux to Willison, dated Febuary 1792, authorising him

to take possession of the land, and sue trespassers ; and that
Willison was -then a' tenant. of Bordeaux.

The defendant

having pleaded the statute of limitations (five years adverse

JANUARY TERM- 180.

45

VWillison v8- Watklns.]

possession giving a title under it) relied upon the foregoing
facts. But the presiding .judge overruled the plea, ,and instructed the jury that, when a tenancy-had been proved to
have once existed, the tenancy must hot only be abandbned,
but possession given up, before an adverse possession can be
alleged. To this decision the defendant excepted.
The defendant brought this writ of error.
In the argument of the cause, the counsel for the plaintiff
in error presented for the consideration of the court other
exceptions besides that upon which the judgment'df the circuit court was reversed.. The'decision of the court is exclusively upon the law arising on that which is stated.
The case was argued by Mr Blanding and Mr M'Duftie•
for'the plaintiff in error, and by Mr Berrien,- attorney- gene.
ral, for the defendant.
Mr Justice BmLDwiN delivered the 6pinion of the Court.
This wis an action of trespass tcktry titles, brought in. 1829,
in'the circuit court of the-Uni'fed States for -the district of
South Carolina, by Watkins -against Willison,. for a tract of'
land contaifing six hundred acres, on the Savannah. river. -This.
land wag originally grinted to James Parsoni, Who conveyed
to Ralph Phillips, .whose estate was confiscated by an act .of
assembly of South Carolina, and vested in -five cbmmission'ers aippointed by the legislature of that ktate. The five commissiorters acted, in exectition of thq' law,. but before any
conveyahce-was made of the l'and in questiori, one of them
had died,.and two of the others had ceased to.,act,-or resigned in 1783. Thd. two remaining commissioners, in 1788,
coiveyed -ihis land to' Daniel Bordeaux and R. Newman,
who in the same 'year executed 'to the treasurer of the state,
a bond and. mortgqge'toskure the payment, of the purchase
money;which, pursuant to an act of assembly passed for that
purpose in 1801, Was transferred and deliyered, to Ralph S.
Phillips, the son of Ralph Phillips, to be disposed of as he
should think proper'; and by the same law the confiscation act,
so far as respected Ralph Phillips, was repealed. A suit was
brought on this bond in the name of the treasurer of the state

'46

SUPREME COURT.
tWtliison tis. Watk s.]

in 1803, against Daniel Bordeaux, and prosecuted to final
judgment against his administrators in 1817, when an execu-.
*tion issued, on which the land was sold and conveyed by deed,
from the sheriff to Anderson Watkins, the plaintiff in the circuit court, who claims by -irtue of the sheriff's deed, and as
standing in the relatibil of landlord to the defendant.
.•Samuel Willison, the father of the defendant, entered into
* possession of the premises in question in 1789, and cultivated
them till his death in 1802; from which time his widow and
children possessed them, till her death in 1815; since which
time the children have retained possession by their tenants,
till the commencement of this suit.
In 1802, Ralph S. Phillips, who was then the ass:gnee of
the bond and mortgage, made a demand of the possession
fronm the widow, who refused to give it up, and set up a title
in herself. He brought an action of trespass against her to try
titles in January 1803, inwhich he was nonsuited in November 1805; and in March 1808 he brought another action of
the same nature against hgr, in which no proceedings were
had after 1812', which, by the law and practice of South Carolina, operates as a discontinuance of the action.
In 1792 Bordeaux, the mortgagor, executed to Willison a
power of attorney authorising him to take possession of the
land, and sue trespassers. Willison was then a tenant of
Bordeaux.
In 1793 they were in treaty for the sale of the land; Bordeaux wanting to sell, and Willison to purchase. But during
the life time of Willison, Bordeaux was apprised that he
claimed to-hold the land by an adverse title. The defendant
exhibited no title other than what is derived from the possession of his father and the family.
The first question which arose at the trial, was on the admission in evidence of the deed from the two commissioners
to Bordeaux and Newman; the defendant alleging, that
no title passed by it, because it was not signed by the other
twr commissioners. -The circuit court overruled the objecti6n; the deed was read, and this becomes the subject of the
first error assigned. in this court.
As the court have been unable to procure the confis-

JANUARY TERM. 1830.
[Willison vs. Viatkins.)

cation act of South Carolina, -we are unwilling to express
any opinion on this exception without examining its provisions, which are very imperfectly set out in the record; and
as the merits of-the case can be decided on another exception, we do not think it necessary to postpone our judgment.
'The remaining exception is, that th. circuit court erred -in
charging the jury, that the claim of the. plaintiff was not
barred by the act of limitations .of South Carolina, which
protects a possession of flv6 years from an-adverse title.
.It
appears from the record, that the defendant and - his
family have been in possession of this lnd :for thirty-three
years next before this suit was brought; but whether that
possession has been adverse to the title of the plaintiff during the whole of that time, or shch part of it as -will bring
him within the protection of this law, becomes a very im-'
portant inquiry.
The plaintiff contended,- at the trial, that, by becoming
thetenant of Bordeaux, Willison the elder and his heirs,.-so
long as they remain in possession, are prevented from setting
up any title in themselves, or denying that of Bordeaux, without first surrendering to him the possession, and then, bringing their suit. That the possession of the tenant being the
possession of the- landlord, he could do no act by which it
could become adverse;so that the statute of limitations would
begin to run in his favour, or operate to bar his claim, by
any lapse of time, however long.
The defendant, on the othier hand, contended, that.from
the tilhe (if the disclaimer of the tenancy by Willispn,. and
the setting up of a title adverse ,to Bordeaux and with
his knowledge, his possession became adverse, and that he
co.uld avail himself of the act of limitatiops if no suit was
brought within five years thereafter.
It is an undoubted, principle of law fully recbgnised'by
ibis court, that a tenant cannot dispute the. title of-his landlord, either-by setting up a title in-himself, or a third-person;
during theexistence of the lease or.tenancy. The principle of
estoppel applies to the relation between them, and operates in.
its'full force to-preveit-the tenant from violating that contract
bv which he obtained and holds possession. 7 Wheat. 535.

SUPREME COURT.
[Willison vs. Watkins.]

He cannot change.the character of. the tenure by his own
act merely, so as to enable himself to hold against his land.lord; who reposes under the security of the tenancy, believing the-possession of the tenant to be his own, held under
his title, and ready to be surrendered by its terimination, by
the lapse of time, or demand of possession. The same principfe applies to mortgagor and mortgagee, trustee and cestui
-que trust, and generally to all cases where one man obtains
possession of real estate belonging to another, by a recognition of his title. On all these subjects the law is too well
settled to require- illustration or reasoning, or to ;fdmit of a
doubt. But we do not think, that in any of these relations,
it has been adopted to the extent contended for in this case,
which presents a disclaimer by a tenant with the knowledge
of his landlord, and an unbroken possession afterwards for
siieh a-length of time that the act of limitations has run out
four times before he has done any act to assert his right to
the land. Few stronger cases than this can occur, and if the
plaintiff can recover without any other evidence of title than
a tenancy existing thirty years before suit brought, it must
be conceded that no length of time, no disclaimer of tenancy-by-the tenant, and no implied acquiescence of the landlord; can-protect a possession originally acquired under such
a tenure.
If there is any case which could clearly illustrate the sound
policy of. acts of repose and quieting titles and possessions
by the limitation of actions, it is in this. 'Here was no secret
disclaimer, no undiscovered fraud; it wasknown to Bordeaux,
and was notice to him that Willison meant to hold from that
time -by his. owL. title and on adverse pbssession.- This terminated the teitancy as t6 him, and from that time Bordeaux
had a right to eject him as a trespasser.- Adams on Eject. 118.
Bull. NiP. 96. 6 Johns. Rep. 272..
H
- ad. there-been a formal lease for a term not then expired;,
ihe lessee forfeited it by this. act of hostility; had it been a
lease at will from year to year, he was entitled to no notice
to quit before, an ejectment. The landlorl's action would
ba as against 'a- trespasser; as much so as if no relatiori had
ever-existed beiween them.

JANUARY TERM 1'830.
[Willison is. Watkns.

Having thus a right to consider the lessee as. a wrongidoer,
holding adversely, w think that under the circumstanices 9f
this case the lessor was bound so to do. It would be an anomalous pos.ession, which as- to the rights of one party was adverse, and as to the other fiduciary, if after a disclaimei with"
the knowledge of the landlord. and attornment to: a third
person, or setting up a. title in himself, the tenant forfeits his
possession and all the benefits of the lease he ought to be en'
titled to, such as result from his known adverse possession.
No injury can be done the landlord-unless by hisown laches.
If he sues within the period of the act of limitations he must
recover: if he suffers the time to pass without suit, it is but
the common case of any other party who loses his right by
negligence and loss of time.
As to the assertion of his claim, the. possession is us adverse and as open to his action, as one acquired orig;nally by
wrong; and we cannot assent.to the proposition that the possession shall assume such character as one party alone may
choose to give it. The act is conclusive on the tenant. He
cannot make his disclaimer and adverse claim, so as to protect himself during the unexpired term of the lease : he is a
trespasser on him who has the legal title. The relation of
landlord and tenant is dissolved, and eaci party is to stand,
upon his right.
It is on this principle alone that the plaintiff could claim
to recover in this action. If there was between him and the
defendant an existing tenancy at the time it was brought)
he had no right of entry. The lessee cannot be a trespasser
during the existence of the lease, and cannot be turned out
till its termination. At the end of a definite term the lessor
has his election to consider the lessee a trespasser and to
enter on him by ejectment; but if-he suffers him to remain in
possession, he becomes a tenant at will, or from year to year,
and in either case is efititled to'a'notice to quit before the
lessor can eject him. The notice terminates the term, and
thenceforth the lessee is a wrongdoer and holds at his peril.
Woodfall's Land. & Ten. 216, 220. 2 Serg. & Rawle, 49..
If the, tenant disclaims the tenure, claims the fee adversely
in right of a third person or his own, or attorns to another, his
VOL. III.-.G

SUPREME COURT.
[Willison vs. Watkins.]

possession then becomes a tortious one, by the forfeiture of his
right. ThejlandlQrd's right of entry is complete, and he may
sue at any time. within the period of limitation; but he must
lay his demise of a daysubsequent to the termination of the
tenancy, for before that he had'no right of entry. By bringing.his ejeotnment, he also affirms the tenancy and goes for
the-forfeiture. - It shall not be .permitted to the landlord to
thus admit that there- isio tenure. subsisting between him
and defendant which can protect his. possession from his
adversary suit, and at the same time recover on. the ground
of there being a tenure so strong that he cannot set up his
own adversary possession.
The plbintiff claims.without showing any title in himself,
or any right of possession, except what exists.from the consequences of a tenancy, the existence of which he denies inthe most solemn manner, by 'asserting its termination before
suit brought.
The'principle here asserted iq not new in this court. 'In
the case of Blight's lessee vs. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 535, 549,
the plaintiff's lessors claimed as heirs of John Dunlap: the
,defendant claimed by purchase from one Hunter, who professed to ha.ve purchased from Dunlap., The defendant
acknowledged the title of Dunlap as the one under whichhe held. Dunlap-had in fact no title; but the plaintiffs insisted that the defendant could not deny his title. The Chief
Justice, in, giving the opinion of the court, 'observes: If he
holds under an adversary title to Dunlap, his right to contest
*his title is admitted.-. If he claims under a sale from -Dunlap, and Dunlap himself is compelled to aver that he does,
then the plaintiffs themselves assert a.title against this contract. Unless they. show that it was conditional and that
tha condition is broken, they cannot, in the -very act of disregarding it themselves; insist that it binds the defendant in.
good-faith to acknowledge a title which has noreal existence.
'We-are not aware that in itpplying" this doctrine to the
case now before the court we shall violate any-settled principle of the common law.
IIf a different rule was established, the consequences vWould
be very serious. A mortgagee, a direct *purchaser from a

JANUARY TERM. 1830.

tenant, or one who buys hisright at a sheriff's sale, assumes
his relations to the landlord with all their legal consequences,
and they are as much estopped from denying the tenancy. If
no length of time would protect a possession originally acquired under a,lease, it would be productive of evils truly
alarming, and we must be convinced beyond a doubt that the
law is .so settled before we could give our sanction to such
a doctrine.
An examination of the authorities on this'point relieves
our minds from all such apprehensions, by finding our opinion
supported to its fulh'extent by judicial decisions entitled to
the higliest respect, and which we may safely adopt as evidence of the common law.
The case ofHovenden vs. Lord Annesley was that ot a
tenant who had.attorned to one claimihg adversely to his
lessor with his knowledge. Ip delivering his opinion, Lord
Redesdale entered into a. detailed view of the decisions on
the application of the act of limitations to trusts of real and
personal estate in courts of law and chancery, and to fiduciaV.
possessions generally. On the point directly before us he obseryes : "That the attornment wil not affectthe title of the
lessor so long as he has a right to consider the person holding possession as his tenant. But as he has a right to punish
the acts of his tenant in disavowing the tenure by proceeding'
to eject him, notwithstanding his lease; if he will not 'proceed for the forfeiture, he has no right-to affect the rights of
third persons on the ground thatthe possession was destroyed,
and there must b~e a limitation fo this'as well 'as every other
demand. The intention of the act of limitations being to quiet
the possession of lands, it would be curious if a tenanit for
ninety-nine years, attorning to a person insisting he was entitled, and disavowing tenure to the knowledge of his former
landlord, should protect the title of the original lessor for theterm of ninety-nine years. That w6uld, I think, be too strong
to hold on the ground of the possession being in the lessor,
after the tenure had been disavowed to the knowledge of the
lessor."
The relation between tenants in common 'is, in principle,
very similar to that betweoh lessor and-lessee: the possession

62

SUPREME COURT.
[W'illbon v;. Vlatkins.]

of ofie is the p9ssession of the other, while ever the tenure
is acknowledged. Cowp. 217. But if one ousts the other,
or denies the tenure, and receives the rents and profits to
his exclusive use, his possession becomes adverse, and the act
of limitations begins. to run. 2 Scho. & Lef. 628, &c. and
cases cited. 4 Serg. & Rawle 570. The possession of a
trustee is the possession of the cestui que trust, so long as
the trust is'acknowledged; but from the time of known disavowal it becomes adverse. So of a mortgagee, while he
admits himself to be in-as mortgagee, and therefor6 liable to*
redemption. 7 Johns. Cha. 114, &c. and cases cited. "But if
the right of redemption is.not foreclosed within twenty years,
the statute may be pleaded; and so in every case of an equitable title, not being the case of a trustee, whose possession is
consistent with the title'of the claimant. 7 Johns. Cha. 122.
After elaborately reviewing'the English decisions on these
and other analogous subjects, chancellor Kent remarks, it
is easy to perceive that the doctrines here laid down are
the same'that govern courts of law in analogous cases, and
the statute of limitations receives the'same cbnstruction and
applicationi at law and in equity. Kane vs. Bloodgood, 7
Johns. Cha. 90, 122. It is equally said that fraud as well as
trust are not within the statute, and it is well settled that
the statute does not run until the discovery of the fraud; for
the title to avoid it does not arisd until then; and pending
the-concealment of it, the statute ought not to run. But
after the discovery of the fact imputed as fraud, the statute
runs as in other cabes; and he cites in support of this position, 1 Browne's Parliament.- Cases, 455. 3 P. Wins, 143.
2 Scho. & Lef. 607, 628, 636, and thecases cited.
In the case of Hughes vs. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 490, 497,
it was settled. that the right of a mortgagor to redeern is
barred after twenty years possession by the mortgagee afterforfeiture, no interest having been paid in the mean time,
and no circumstance appearing to account for the neglect.
7 Johns. Cha. 122. 2 Sch. & Lef. 636.- The court in that
case say, that in respect to the mortgagee, who is seeking
to foreclose the equity of redemption, the general rule is,
that where the mortgagor has' been permitted to remain in

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Willison s. Watkins.]

-

possession, the mortgage will, after a length of time, be presumed to have been discharged by payment of the money or
a release, unless circumstances can be shown sufficiently
strong to repel the presumption ; as payment of interest, a
promise to-pay, an acknowledgement by the mortgagor that
the mortgage is still-existing, or the likp.
All these principles beardireptly on the case now before
us, they are Well settled and unquestioned rules in all courts
of law and equity, and necessarily lead to the same, conclision'to which this court has arrived. The relations created by
a .lease are not more sacred than those of a trust or-a mortgage. By setting up or attorning to a title adverse to his
landlord,, -the tehant commits a fraud as much as by the
brea6h of any other trust. Why'then should not the statute
protect'him, 'as well as any other fraudulent trustee, from the
time the fraud is discovered or known to the landlord 1'If
he suffers the tenant to retain possession twenty years after
a tenancy is disavowed, and cannot account for his delay in
bringing his suit; why should he be exempted from the
'operation .of the statute more than the mortgagor or the
mortgagee . We can perceive no good reasons for allowing this peculiar and exclusive privilege to a lessor; we can
find no rule of law or equity which makes it a matter of duty
to do it, and have no hesitation in deciding that in this case
the statute of limitations is a bar to the plaintiff's action.
in doihg this we do not intend to dispute the principle of
any case adjudged by the supreme court of South. Carolina.
Of those which have been cited in the argument there are
.nqne whichin our opinion controvert any of the principles here
'laid down, or profess to be founded on any local usage, common law, or construction of the statute of limitations of that
state. One has been much pressed upon us, as establishing a
doctrine which-would support the position of the plaintiff,
which deserves some notice. In the case in 1 Nott & M'Cord,
374, the court decide, that where a defendant enters under'a
plaintiff, he shall not dispute his title while he remains in possession, and that he must first give up his possession, and bring
his suit'to try titles. To ile correctness of this principle, we
yield our assent, not as one professing to be peculiar to South

SUPREME COURT.
.[Willison vs. Wakins.]

Carolina, but as a iule of the common law applicable to-the
cases of fiduciary possession before noticed. It is laid down
as a general rule, embracing in terms tenants in common,
trusteep, mortgagees and lessees, but disallowing none of the
exceptioni or limitations which qualify it -nd exclude from
its operation all cases where the possession has become adverse, where, the party'entitled to it does not "enter or sue
within the time of the statute of limitations, or givQ any good
reason for his delay; leaving the rule in full force wherever
-the suit is brought within the time- prescribed by law. To
this extent, and this dnly, the decision would reach. To carry
it further would be giving a more universal application than
the courts of South Carolina woifld seem to have intended,
and further than we should be warranted by the rules of law.
To extend it to casos .ofvendor and vendee would be in direct contradiction to the-solemn dedision in 7 Wheat. 525.
In relation to the limitation of actions for the recovery of
real property, we think it proper to apply the remarks of the
learned judge who delivered the opinion of this court in the
case of Bell vs. Morrison, 1 Peterv, 351, and to say that the
statute ought to receive such a construction as will effectuate
the beneficent objects which it intended to accomplish,-the
security of titles, and the quieting of possessions, That
which has been, given to it in the present case is we think
favourable to its true spirit and intention, without impairing
any legal principle heretofore established.
It is' therefore the opinion of the court that the plaintiff in
error has sustained his fourth exception, and that the judgment of the circuit court must, be reversed. The cause is
remanded to the circuit court with directions to award a
venire de novo.Mr Justice JOHNSOs.
Had I felt myself atliberty in the cburt below-to act upon
my own impressions as to the, general doctrine respecting
the defence which a tenant might legally set up in ejectment
brought against him by his landlord, I. certainly should have
left it to the jury to inquirei whether-the possession of Willison ever was hostile to that of Bordeaux; a fact, the evidence

JANUARY TERM 1830,

55

[Wi11ison vs. Watkins.]

to prove which was very trifling,.as appears even in this bill
of exceptiohs. But there were produced to me official reports
of adjudged cases in that state, by the courts of the last resort; which appeared fully to establish "that when once a
tenancy was proved, the tenant could make no-defence, but
must restore possession, and then alone could he ayail himself of a title derived from any source whatever, inconsistent
with the relation of tenant. Now it ought not to- be controverted, that, as to what are the laws of real estate in the respective states, the decisions of every 9ther state in the union,
or in the universe, are worth nothing against the decisions
of the state where the land lies. On such a subject we have
just as much right to repeal their statutes as to .overrule their
decisions.
I will repeat a few extracts froft one of their decisions to
show, that they will at least afford an apology'for the opinion
expressed in 'the bill of exceptions upon the law of South
Carolina; for I placed it expressly on their-decisions, not my
own ideas of the general doctrine.The case of Wilson vs. Weatherby, 1 Nott &-M'Cord's
Rep. 373, was an action to try title, just such as the present,
and heard before Cheves, Justice, in July 1815. The defendant offeredto go into evidence to show a title in himself,
to which it was objected, that as he had gone into possession
under the-plaintiff, he could not dispute.his title. The ob-"
jection was sustained, and a verdict given for. the plaintiff.'
The cause was then carried-up to the appellate court, and
the judgment below sustained, that court unanimously agreeing the law to be as laid down by the-judge who'delivered
the opinion, in these terms: " The evidence offered by-'the defendaht wes-of a title acquited by him after he went into possession under.the plaintiff,and before.he gavie at possession.
If he was at any timethe tenant of the plaintiff, he continues
so all the time, unless he had given'up the posession.- The
attempt to evade the -rule of law by going out of possession.
a moment, and then returning into possession, did hot change
his situation at all,--and especially as.he left another person
in possession, 80 that his possession -was altogether unbroken. A-distinct and bona fide abandonment of the posses-

SUPREME COURT.
'Willison vs. Watkins.)

sion at least was necessary to have put him in a situation to
dispute the plaintiff's title. On the last ground, that the defendant was not at any time the tenant of the Plaintiff, the
-defendant was not indeed a tenant under a lease rendering
rent, but he nevertheless held under the plaintiff. This
ground is founded -on a misconception ofthe principle, which
is not confined to the cases of tenants in the common acceptation of- the term. These cases have only furnished examples of the application of the principle, which is, that
wherever a defendant has entered into possession under the
plaintiff, he shall not be permitted, while he remains in p0osession, to dispute the. plaintiff's title. He has a right to
purchase any title he pleases, but he is bound, bonafide, to
give up possession, and to bring his action on his title, and
recover by the strength of his own title."
This is the leading case upon this doctrine in that state,
and it is fully settled there, that the wife, the executer, the
heir or the purchaser at sheriff's sale, is identified in interest with the previous possessor; as also that a statutory title
is acquired by possession, under which one subsequently
going out of possession, may recover.
Understanding such to be the law of that state, I ceriainly did not hold myself bound or at liberty to inquire
whether it accorded with the rules of decision in any other
state. In principle, I am under the impression there is not
much difference, or at least not more than that court was at
large to disregard if they thotight proper.
This cause came on to bd heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of South Carolina, and was argued by counsel; on
consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this
catse .be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions -to award a venire facias de novo.

