JANUARY TERM 1830.

R~&cEmL CAN, RA
SCL&wIT a *. Ti

m.&mxx or
A=riPA
i

su

D.&W' Cimt,~ Dzogasw,
vce Cozfwt

im Oc&Ri

JM~Acn Cb6ANY' or Nzw Yomr, APPMLANITS.
The libellants, in their original libel in the district court of the United States foi
the district of South Carolina; prayed that certain bales of cotton mlght'be
decreed to them with damage6 and costs. Canter, who also claimed the atton, prayed the court for restitution, with. damages .and coats. The' district
court decreed restitution of part of the'cotton lo the libellants, and dismissed
the libel, without any award of damagis on either side. Both parties appealed
from this decree to the circuit court, where'the dedree of the district edut'was.
reversed, and-restitution of all the cotton was decreed to Canter, with costs;

withbist any award ofdamage, or any express reservationof that questiomi
in the decree. Frbm thisdecree the libellants In, the'district court appealed
'to this court ;' no ippeal Was" entered by Canter. HeJd, that' the question of
a claim of damages by Canter is not open before this court. The decree of
restitution, wjihout .any allowance of damages, was a virtual denial of them,
and a final decree upon Canter's claim'of damages. 'It was h s duty,.at 'that
'time, to have filed a crois appeal', if he meant to rely on a clain to damages;.
and not having done so, it was a submission to. the decree of resi'tufion and

costs only.
The counsel fees allowed as expenses attending the 'prosecution 'of an appeal to
the circuit court and to the supreme court, inan admiralty case.
This isnot a proper case for the award of damages. The prociedings of thi
libellants Were in the ordifiary course to-vindicate d supposed legal title. There
is no pretence to 10y that the suit was-instituted without probable cause, or
.was conducted in a malicious or oppressive manner. The libellints hada
rigiht-to submit their title 'to the decision of a judicial tribunal, in any legal
.mode Which promised them an effectual and speedy redress. Where parties
litigate in the admiralty, and there was i probable ground for the suit or defence, the court considers the poly compensafioh which the successful party is
entitled to, is a compensation in'costs and expenses.. If the party has suftered
any loss'beyond these, it is damnuiji absqule isjuria. t318]
It is of great importance to the due administration of justice, and-ia furtherance
of the manifest intention of the legislature, in giving appellate jurisdiction to
ibis court upon final decrees duly, that causes should, not come up here in
fragments or successive appeals • It would occasion very great delays and oppressive expenses. [318]
The settled practice of tfiis court is, that whenever damages are claimed by the
libellant'or the dlaimant in thi original proceedings,, if a•decree of restitution
and costs only paises, it is a virtual denial of damages; and the party will be
deemed to have waived the claim for damages, unless he then -interposes an
appeal or cross appeal to sustain that claim. [3183
Costs and expenses are not matters positively limited by law, buit are allowed-in
the exercise of a sound discretion of the court ; and no appeal lies from a mere
decree respecting costs Andexpenses. [319]

SUPREME COURT.
[Canter vs. The American and Ocean Insurance Companies.]

THIS case was heard at'January term 1828, upon questions submitted to the court, on an appeal from the circuit
court of the district of South Carolina. 1 Peters, 511. The
court then decided in favour, of the claimant, and directed
restitution of the cotton, which was the subject of the controversy between the parties ; having affirmed the decree of
the circuit court of South Carolina. By the mandate to the
circuit court ii was ordered, "that such execution and pro-.
ceedings be had, as according. to right and justice, and according to the laws of the United States, ought to be had."
Upon, the filing of the mandate the circuit court ordered,.
'1that the case be' put on the docket, and it be referred to
the officer of this court to examine into the damages sustained -by the claimant, DavidCanter, in consequence of the proceedings-of -the libellants, and report thereon at as early a
day as possible to this court.
The appellant, David Canter, thereupbn' filed iwthe circuit court "a statement of damages sustained by him, by the
illegal seizure of.three hundred and fifty-six bales of cotton,
by order of the underwriters."
The statement set forth losses on the, sales of the cotton,
and expenses and- payments' c6nnected with the same,
amounting to $3639 87. Losses and' probable gain- on
sales of ricepurchased by the appellants, and which was sold
instead of being shipped, in consequence 'of the proceedings
of the 'appellees ; the cost of protest and damages on a bill
of exchange drawn by him, and dishonoured in consequence
of the seizure' of the cotton; law expenses at Charleston
and Columbia, in 'South Carolina, and in Washington, and
travelling expenses to and in Washington; papers from Key
West, relative to judicial proceedings there; postages and
protests, costs of the supreme court of the United States,
anQ briefs; loss in the value of the cotton during the pendency of the proceedings, $2860.
The counsel-for the appellees filed with the register of the
court a protest against the order of reference made by the
circuit court, to ascertain the damages alleged to have been
sustained by the appellant, on the grounds, 1. That the
mandate of the supreme court of the United States gives no

JANUARY TERM -180.
[Canter vs. The American and Ocean Insurance Companies.)

authority or instructions to.the circuit court to inquire into
damages. 2. That the decrees of the district, cirCuif, and
supreme court, do not award damaggs to the appellant. - 3
That the .appellees were not in any *manner liable for damages. 4. That at all events,-the inquiry into damages- cannQt extend beyond the amount of the stipulations entered
into by the appellees in the original proeeedings, by, which
alone they.are before the court.
The clerk'of the circuit court refused all the claims preferred by-the appellant, with the exception of the following:
Papers from Key West, to establish legality of'
proceedings there $51, postages and pro$71, 00
tests $",
C6sts of tile supreme court and briefs $72 02,
protest and damages on bill drawn by claim.
294 0,2
ant $222,
.
.
.
...
This grew out of the cotton speculation,/the
bill was dishonoured in consequence of the seizure, the- claimant, not being in'funds. to take up
the draft.
1150 00
Counsel fees; at Charleston and Washington,
$1515 02
Also the loss 'on the sale of- the cotton, which was made
before the proceedings were instituted against the cotton,
and which sale was not completed by reason 'bf the same,
with interest on the balance of the sale after deducting the
actual proceeds of the co.tton, when sold by order of the district court $3991 77; and also the actual loss on the rice
purchased, to be paid for out of the proceeds of-the cotton,
rejecting the claim of probable profits, the sum actually allowed being $2820 67.
* These allowances were all excepted, to by the appellees,
and. the appellant also excepted to the refusal of the clerk of
the circuit court to admit all of the. claims preferred in "thestatement."
The circuit court refused to allow to the appellant any of
the items reported by the clerk, -with the exception of some
of those comprehended in the "incidental expenses." As to

SUPREME COURT.
[Canter vs. The American and Ocean Insurance Companies.1

those items, the clerk rejected the sum of $222 for protests
and damages on a bill of exchange, and o1rdered-the, counsel
fees 6f -the appellant to be paid under the mandate, upon
the authority of the Apollon, 9 Wheat. 36% .as the costs
.awnrfled him by the supreme court $1372 82.
Thd appellant appealed to this court.
At thei last term Mr Cruger moved to dismiss the appeal,
on the ground that" the mandate" from: this court gave no
authcritl't6 the circuit. court of,'south Crolina to assess
danages to the appellant. This motion was opposed.by-Mr
Coxe,, for the appellant ; and the.court ordered the-cause to
be argued upon all the questions it involved, when it should
be regularly called.
At this term, Mr Coxe for the appellant'contended; *that
the decree of the circuit'courtfrom which the former appeal
was taken, left the question of damages open. That appeal
was taken by the claimants in the circuit court, now the appellees, and it was from a decree, in its nature interlocutory,
and not final; and if this was not so, it was the act of those
who are now appelleeg, and cannot prejudice the rights of
the appellant.
In the case now before the court, the appeal, h,.s been
taken by Canter only, and not by those who claimed'the cotton. The only question tlerefore in this court is,' whether
sufficient damages have l een awarded, as no cross appeal
was entered, and there can be no inquiry whether damages
may be assessed at all ; this having been decided in the circuit court. The appellee cannot here impugn the decree below upon this point.
Is this then a case for dimages, or rather for full compensation
The entire records : now before this court; the pleadings
and the evidence which were under consideration during the
last term, gtill.constitute a part of the case upon which the
decision must be based.
It will be recollectedthat the claimant became the proprietor of the cotton at Key West, where it was found in the
possession of certain salvors. The libellants were present, by

JANUARY TERM .1830.
(Canter vs. The Amricoairand Ocean Insurance Companies.1

their agent, .who was cognizdat .ih the proceedings, acquiesced in them, and received the portion of the proceeds of
sale'to which they were-entitled.' The captain of the wrecked
vossel was also present, and all participated in what was done
there.
No proceedings were ever inistituted by the libellants
against the authors or abett6rs of the acts of which they
complained.- N , attempt was ever made to arrest them in
the-progress of the business, to punish them afterwards, or
to -pursue the-money-in their hands. All was reserved for
this innocent..purchaser. Innocent he was, for this court
has'decreed the sale to be valid, and his title to be incontrovertible; innocent as regard s them; for he did.no one, act ia
which they had. nbt concurred.
Theyavowed their object to be to break up these proceed-*
ings at Key West; and this was to be effected by the ruin,
of this claimant.
This court has definitively settled the question of righi
between these parties; the libellants had ho interest in the
cotton, the subject matter of the suit. It was the propertyof the claimant.
,
IIn the. prosecution of this suit against him, however, .he
has been deprived of this property; he has incurred heavy
expenses and losses, and he asks not vindictive damages; he.
-asks nothing nomne pmne; he merely asl s to be placed in.
the sijuation he would haveoccupied had these ploceedings
never been instituted against him. He claims in fact nothing
which may'not properly be awarded under the name of restitution. This is emphatically the case in r6gard to the first
item. The property has long since been disposed of; it-probably has no longer an existence; restitution in specie must be,
had; the mandate of this court cannot be literally executed.
This has been rendered impracticable by the acts of libellants, They seized upon the article; they withdrew it from
the control of theclaimant. While thus retained by them, it
is so disposed of, that the owner can never be restored to the
actual enjoyment of it. 'What then are his rights, and what
will satisfy the order of this court that the property shall be,
restored '.

312

SUPREME COURT.
[Canter vs.'The American and Ocean Insurance Comppnies.i

He had entered into an actual contract to selitfot $17,425;
that amount of money was in fact and in substance the object*
of the suit. The claimant had no right to the cotton which he
lad sold.' He had a right to this amount of purchase money,
and that was what the libellant sought to obtain from him.
That was substituted in lieu ofkthe cotton. To that sum, then,
which was the real value of the cotton to -him, the amount
for which it had been sold, he is now entitled under the decree for restitution. This would have been the measure of
damages had Canter. brought trover for these goods. Ken-.
nedy vs. Strong, 14 Johns. 128'. In replevin the same result.
would have happened; and it is stated by the court to be-no
more than an indemnification. Rowley vs. Gibbs, 14 Johns.
385.
]But this seizure has been decided to be illegal and groundless. It was made upon a claim of right which has been
disaffirmed. It is 'essentially a. seizure without probable
cause,

In the case'ofGelston vs. Hoyt,-13 Johns. 30, and 3 Wheat.
46, it was held in the state courts as well as here, that a
decree of restitution was conclusive, that the seizure was
illegal,' and !hat where such seizure was made without legal
process, such.decree intitled the party to recover in an iction of trespass to the amount of the damage actually sustained by the seizure. Here the seizvre was made through
the intervention of the process of the court, but the only
difference which is thereby produced is, that the claimant
is not compelled to resort to en action of trespass t6 recover
his damages; they may be awarded-in 'the principal..suit.
The general rule established in the case of the Apollon,
9 Wheat. 373, is that the party who seizes, seizes at -his
peril. The rule for estimating damages in that case was
the actual value of the property with interest.. 9 .Wheat. 377.
But the professed object is admitted.to be indemnification.
12 Wheat. 17. How is that indemnification to be afforded .
By placing the party where he would have been, if no such
proceedings had been instituted.'
The d6ctrines of the civil law may furnish the proper rule.

JANUARV TERM 1830.
[Canter.*8. The American and"Ocean Insurance Companles.]

2 Bro. Civ..& Ad, La,*, 407. Venius, Corn: 889.
B. 4. T. 4 . s. 33, p. 166. Inst. B. 4. T. .16: s.2.

Digest,

The amount 6f the- stipulation entered into in the district
court, furnishes no rule for damiages; excepting so far as.it
operates in favour of the sureties. Had no stipulation
been required by the court, -they still. miglt have gone on to'
ass.ss damages. It is not by 'the stipulation -that the party
subjects himself to -the jurisdiction and jadgmen't of the
court, bui by the very.fact of filing his. libel and proceeding
in his suit. 10 Wheat. 446.
Mr Ogden, for the appellees,,argued; that this was . claim
for damages in a case where one .judge had decided in
favour of.the claimants or appellees ; and the appellees were
now called upon to respond in damages, to an extent which,.
were the appellees private persons, would produce their ruin.
The claim, he contended, was against every principle of law..
In case of'a seizure: by a revenue officer, a certificate from
the judge of probable cause will' excuse damages. In case of
capture, probable' ground for making th6 capture is .not
a case for damages. There has been 'no case in' which
mere civil proceedings in a court to establish a supposed
right, has exposed the party to such liability, unless the
proceedings have.been malicious. The'penaltyis costs and
expenses, in cases of the former description.
.- In. the case of Gelson vs.'Hoyt, the vessel'was acquitted;
and a certificate.of, probable cause was refused. by the district judge. "Had the"district court condemned the vessel in
that case, would it have been said there -was no probable
cause .1 The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 373, was a cage of capture
without probable ground of proceeding.
1. Inasmuch as there was a decree of a competent court,
that the seizure made by the appellees was one they had a
right to make ; this is not a case for damages.
2. It was also a case of first impression. It was a new
case, and the party had a right to bripg it before a court"of
the United States for examination. This also prevents its
being a case for damages. The Lewis, 2 Dod.on, Ad. Rep.
210.
VoL. III.-2 P

3t4

SUPREME COURT.
[Canter vs. The American and Ocean insurance Companles.]

Suppose the appellant entitled to damages. The decree
of the circuit court of South Carolina was a final decree, or
this court had no jurisdiction on tie first appeal. If the
party was entitled to damages, he should l ave presented his
claim to the circuit court; not having done so, he could not
prefer such a claim when the'case went back on the mandate of this court. The matter in: dispute was the cotton.
It was sold by order of the court, and the proceeds paid into
court. Those proceeds were all the court would look to,
in any view of those proceedingk. All cases of sa& by
a marshal would bring up claims to damages. The test of
the value of the goods, and the sum in controversy between
parties, is properly ascertained by sales, under the order or
authority of a court.by a regular officer.
It is said that if the cotton had not been taken out of the
hands 'of Canter, by the proceeding of the appellees, it
would have sold for more. He had at all times the- right to
take it out of the possession of the marshal by an appraisement and securiiy.
As to probable cause exempting parties from -damages.
Cited, 1 Wheat. 21. 2 Rob. Ad. Rep. 132. *Rose v8. Himely, 4 Cranch, 41.
There is no difference between actions for marine trespass, and civil proceedings, in the law of damages. Mariana Flora, Wheat. 58. The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 17. 2
Bro. Civ. & Ad. Law, -10, 105, 398. The Apollo, 1 Hag.
Ad. Rep. 306.
As to the costs of;he appeal to this court. The counsel
fees are a reasonabl&, but it may be doubted if they are a legal
claim. 3 Dal. 301. 9 Wheat. 309. It is said in the latter
case, that theallowance of counsel fees is in the discretion
of the court. The case is not thien a case for damages. If
it is such a case, the appellant has waived them.
Mr Webster in reply. A view of this case may be taken,
differing entirely from that which is entertained by the counsel for the appellees.
The vessel on board ot which the cotton was originally
shipped was wrecked. Salvage was decreed by the court
at Key West, to be paid out, of the proceeds of the cargo;

JANUARY TERM 1830..
[Canter vs. The Mnerdcan and -OeanInsurance

empanies.]

and Canter purchatsed the cotton at tile sale made .under the
order of the court,- and shipped it to Charleston. .The.right
of the court at' Key West to proceed against the propertysaved, for salvage,, was denied; and at Charleston,,.the underwriters seized the property. Canter was in possession of
the property. under the decree of a court, and his right to
the property was afterwards confirmed in the circuit court,
ind in this court.
This is the case of an action for a marine tort or trespass,
not a question of prize. Jurisdiction of the case was taken
on the ground of the case being of this character. It is an
action in the-udmiralty to try the right of property between
parties thus situated. What are the principles which apply
to such a-case '1 Not those which operate in revenue cases.
In those cases, certificates of probable cause are allowed,
because',itis the duty of the officer to. act,- and if he proceeds on reasonable grounds he. is protected. Cases' ox
prize rest on-similar principles; those of policy.
This case is not of such a character. The courts of conimen lawand admiralty had concurrent jurisdiction of the case,
and the insurance offices'-might have brought tresphss at common law: They have chosen-a proceeding-in the admiralty,
inrem, auid they have -taken the goods out -ofthe possesion
of the owner. Goods cannot be taken without.the taker being
responsible in damages. - In ai Suit at common- law, bail
would have- been given, and-the owner would have'been left
in the use of his property. The proceeding was like replevinfor'goods, where-security is given to respond in damages.
Had Canter a right to any thing'beyond vhat he receivedl
To ascertain his loss,,the value of the przoperty at: the time
it was taken out -ofhis possession, must be adverted to. The
-property waatakin. out of his possession by the libellants;
they elected this- as their remedy, and one ordinarily leading
to-loss: and it is not for them to complain when they are
called upon to make recompense for the loss.. Cases Of-this
kind arising on land are frequently tried,' -In all, cases'where
property is seized unlawfully., the actor must resppnd in
d 'ma'es; It is no answer .insuch cases. to-ay the party
was proceeding in the course of regular litigation. Ho proceeds at his peril.

316

SUPREME COURT.
ECanter vs. The Anericantand Ocean Insurance Companies.]

Every man .may litigate at the charge of costs; but if in
his proceedings he will cnange the possession of the property
he claims, then he m6st indemnify the real'owner when the
claim is decided against him. In case. of marine trespass,
it is always in the equitable powers of the court to give
damages, and the circuit court should have, given them indtead ,of putting the appellant to-a separate action.
It is said that Canter should have made a claim to damages
in the cir%,uit court. , The case was brought before the court
by the appeljees, on its former appearance here, and was
sent back for further proceedings. it was in the power of
the circuit court, when the case was again before them, to
do all thai the appellant could properly claim. Restitution,
wbich the appellant was entitled to, was not to be made by
restoring "the thing itself; restitution could only be made'by
placing. the appellaxit'in the situation in which he was before the seizure.
Mr Justice STonY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was formerly before this court, upon an appeal
taken by the original libellants, the American and Ocean
.psurance Companies, to the decree of the circuit court,
awarding restitution of the property to'the claimant, Canter,
with costs. That decree was affirmed by. this court, and a
mandate issued to the circuit court, commanding that such
.execution and proceedings be had in said cause, as according.
to right and justice,.and the laws of the United States, ought
to be had, the-appeal notwithstanding." The case is reported at large in I Peters's',Rep: 547.
When the case came before the circuit court upon the
mandate, Canter made- an application.to the. court tQ refer
the same to the proper officer to examine into the damages
sustained by him in consequence of the proceedings of- the
libellants, and to report thereon. A.reference was accordingly made to the register to, ascertain the damages; and.
when the case came on before him, the libellants entered a
protest against any sucli, proceedings, upon the grounds
that the mandate gave no authority to inquire into damages;
that-none had. been in fact awarded, either by the: district,
'"'

JANUARY.TERM 1830.
[Canter vs. The American and Ocean Insurance Companies.]

circuit, or supreme court; and that the'libellants were not
in any manner liable for damages. The register, notwithstanding the protest, proceeded to inquire into the damages,
and made his report thereon to the circuit court, where the
same-grounds of objectiomi" were again taken" by the libel-'
kInts; The court upon the hearing,- asserted the right t9 in-

quire into the damages, as a matter undisposed .of. in the
fornier.decree; -but denied any allowance of them upon the
merits, and decreed costs and expenses cnly to the claimant.
From this. last decree both parties have appealed to this
court ; and the case nowstands before us for judgment upon these cross appeals.
It it proper to add, that the libellants in their original
libel prayed that the three.hundred and fifty-six bales of cotton might be decreed to them, with damages and costs,; and
that the clairmant Canter, in his -claim, also prayed for restitution of thp'cotton, with damages.and costs. The district
court decreed restitution to the libellants of part of the cotton, and dismissed. the libel as to the residue, without any
,award of, damag on either side. Both parties .appealed
Iriom this dedree to the circuit court; wbere, upon the -hear•ing, the decree of the district cofirt was reversed,- and restitution of all-thecotton*was decreed to -Canter, with costs,
•(as.has' been before mentioned;) but without any award of
damages, or any express reservation of that :question in'the
decre..
Two 'questions have, .been made and- argued at the bar.
The first is, whether, under th- circupstances, the inquiry
into damages could.be e ntertained- by the. court belov, after
the cause was .remanded for execution - by the mandate of
-this court., The second is, whether, if such -proceedihgscould be.id-, the present is a fit,case for damages.
In"respect to the last question, if we felt at liberty to entert±ain it, we should have no difficttlty in concurring in the
opinion, of the circuit court, that this case was not a fit one
for an award of dimages. The p;oceedings of the libellants
were in the ordinary course, to vindicate a supposed legaltitle to the property. There is no pretence to say, that the
-

318

SUPREME COURT.
[Canter vs. The Amerlcan and Ocean Insurance Companls.]

suit was instituted withoui probable cause- or was conducted in a malicious or oppressive manner. The libellants
had a right to submit their title to die decision of a judicial
tribunal, in any legal mode which promised them an effectual and speedy redress. They have failed; not so much
from any infirmity in their original title, as from the sentence
of a court, of competent jurisdiction, (whose very jurisdiction
was the matter in question), having been adjudged to be
conclusive upon that title. Where parties litigate in. the
admiralty, and there was a probable ground for the suit or
defence; the court consider the only compensation which
the successful party is entitled to, is a compdnsation in costs
and expensds. If the party has suffered any loss beyond
these, it is, as was justly observed in the opinion of the circuit court, damnum absque. injuria.
But we are of opinion, that the question of -damages is
not now open before'this court. The original decree of
restitution- with costs, without any. allowance of damages,
or any express reservaion of that question, was a virtual
denial of damages, and a final decree as to the demand afdamages set up by Canter in his original claim. It was his
duty at that time~to have filed a cross appeal, if he meant
to rely upon his claim for damages; and not having then
done so, it was a waiver of the claim, and a submission to
the decree of restitution and costs only. Itis of great importance to the due akdministration of justice, and is in furtherance of the manifest intention -of the legislature, in
giving appellate jurisdiction, to this court mpon finql decrees
only, that causes should not come up here in fragments,
upon successive appeals. ft would occasion very great delays, and oppressive expenses. We have already had occaL
sion to!4Ldvert to ibis -tsbject in the cases of the Santa Maria, 10 Wheat. Rep. 481. The Palmyra, 10 Wheat. Rep.
502. Chace vs. Vasquez,- I I Wheat. Rep. 429. We wiih
it now to be understood by the bar, as the settled practice
of this court, that wherever damages are claimed by the
libellant or the claimant in the original proceedings, if a
decree for restitution and* costs only passes, it is -a virtual

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Canter vs. The American and Ocean InurapceaCompanles.] -"

denial of damages; -and the party will be deemed to have
waived the claim for dapiages, unless lie then interposes an
appeal, or cross appeal, to sustain that claim.

As to thecosts and expenses, we perceive no errorin the
allowance of them in .he circuit court.

They are not mat-

ters positively limited by law, but are allowed in the exercise'of a sound discretion of the court. ' And, besides,, it
may be added, that. no appeal lies from a meredecree respectingcosts and expenses.
The decree of the circuit court is therefore .affirmed with
costs.
- This cause came on to be heard on the trapscript
of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Souih Carolina, and was agued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it i§ ordered and decreed*by'this.court,
that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, without costs, for the libellants.

