JANUARY TERM 1830.

4W8

.Axo3mm ,
vs. Jiis
W Lwix PA~sows, PL.urnnrF N ERi0oi
T.W. OAXEY, StiWxcs OF THE CREDITORS op JAxfS ARmoR.
Error from the district court'of Louisiana. The record consisted of the petition,
the,answer, the whole testimony, as well deppsitions as documents, introduced
by either party, and the fiat of the judge,-tha.Armor, the plaintiff below, recover
the debt as demanded. The difficulty is to decide under what character we
shall consider this reference to the revising power of this cou't. -If treated
strictly as a writ of eiror, it is certainly not an attribute of that writ, according
to the com'mon law doctrine, to submit the testimony aswell.as thie law of the
case to thie revision of--this court; and then there is no mode in which the
court can treat thia case, but in the nature of a bill of exceptions. The court
is not at liberty totreat this case a's an appeqI in'a court of equity jurisdiction, under the act of 1803; becAuse the party has not brought up his cause by
app~eal,o but by writ of error. [425]
F. at New Orleani, was the correspondent of P. at Boston, received goods from
him on consignm~ent, ano was from time to time directed to purchase produce,
and ship the same to P., and was instructed lo draw on P. for the funds to pay
'for the sanie. When he nade purchases, "the bills of parcels Were made out
in-the name of F., and the accounts assured in the books of the different merchants In his name." The general course of the" business was, that P,sept
out, Inhis own vessels, merchandise to F. which was sold by F., and F. at
the request of P. purchased from merchants in New'Orldansproduce, andshipped the same as ordered by P.; and to put himself lii-funds for the sime
when nedessary, drew bills of exchange on P., who.had always, until .the presentation of the bills on which this suit was brought, accepted and paid the
same ;hut he did not in his purchases act under the idea that-he wab iestricted
In his purchases to the drawing of bills fo the payment of. the articles p'ubchaged for P. F. purchased a quantity of ,tobacco tb be shipped to Pj, and
paymeni for the same in bills' on P. made a particular part of he coptract for
the purchase. At the time of the purchase, F. showed to th@ Vendor of the
tobacco the letfers from'P., ordering the -purchase anid shipnmentf of the same.
Some of the bills drawn by F. on P.; and which were delivered to the vendor
of the tobacco in payment for the 4ame, were refused acceptance ad'payment, and this suit was instituted for the recovery of The amotint of thebills
from-P. Held, 4hat P. was not -liable to pay the bills. [426]
The genefal rule is, that tprincipal is bound by the7
act of' his agent no'further
than he authorises that agent t0 bind him; but the extent of the power given
to an agent is decided as well from facts isfrom express delegation. In the
esti ate of application of such facts, the law has regard tb public security, and
often applies the rule "that he who trusts must pay." So also, collusion with
an agent to get a debt paid.through the intervention of one in failing ciriumstances, has been held to niake the principal liable on the ground of immoral
-dealing. [4281
A bill.of exchange iithe substitute for the actual transrhisslon of' moqe' by sea
or land. , Power therefore to draw on a house in good crcdit, and to throw the

SUPREME COURT.[Parsons s. Armor and Oakey.]
:bills upon.the market, is equivalent to a deposit of cash in the vaults of the
agent. There is not the least tittle, of evidencg.in this cause to show that P.
meant to use the credit of the drawer of tbe'bjlls on which the suitis brought,
or to Authorise him to pledge his credit in any thing but the iegotiation of'the
bills. This'depended on. the confidence, which .merchants of New Orleans
who wished to remit would place in the solvency and integrity of the drawer
and..drawee; end had no connection whatever with the application-of the mnruby thus raised to (he purchases ordered by the principal. As to those pur.
chases, the agent was autliorised to go no further than to apply the funds
deposited with him. [.4283.
Of the general power-o protest the bills, of one who nas overdrawn, there can
-be no qt €etioh; for it is the only security:ihich one-who gives a power to
"Arawbills, and throw them qn the market, ha against the bad faith of his coirespondent. He takes the risk of paying the damages, if in fault;-or of throwing them on the other,- if he has actually abused his trust. It is a question
betyeeh him and his correspondint. [429]
The currency which a merchant may. give-to bills drawn on him by a correspondent, by paynlent of such bills, does not deprive him of the security he has
a right.to, by'refusing his acceptance of otherbills so drawn. [430]
It does not affect tie merits of this cause, that the original confract was made
for a payment in bills. Such was not the negotiation to, which P. had limited
F.; it was no more betweeh P. and the vendor of the tobacco'than a purchase
of bills.with the cash received for the tobacco. [430]

-

"THIS was a writ of error to'the circuit court for the eastern district of Louisiana.
.James .Ainor, a merchant of New Orleans, sued William
Parsons, 7Lmerchant of Boston, in the parish court of New
Orleans, -by petition, setting forth, that in June 1825, he sold
to one Eben Fiske,- acting as. the agefit of Parsons, tobacco
to the am6unt of $17,.1'1 99, in.consideration- whereof
Fiske drew sundry'bills of exchange on Parsons, all which
were' honoured and paid,, except two, one fof $1443 29,
and the, other for $4123 71, which were not accepted or
paid; and charging that Parsons owes.,him the amount of the'
tWo bills, viz., $5567. . Certain merchants of, New Orleans
were sued as garnishees of Parsons. The cause was duly removed into the. circuit court of the United States; .and
James Armor havibg failed; he himself and Oakey- were

appointed syndics of his creditors.
Some objection to the .jurisdiction was taken, and over-

ruled; and a general answer put.in, by Parsons, denying his
liability.
The bills of exchange were dated July 2, 1825 ; one was

JANuARtY TERfm-I.

.415
.41

[Parsons vs. Aimor and Oakey.]

for'-$1443 29, at 60 days; the other, for $4123 71. .The
drawing, presentment, and protest of these bills were proved.
When the cause came to be heard, both parties waived the
trial by jury, and agreed that the court should-decide W~hether the defendant was responsible-to the plaintiffs, upon the
facts as they appear disclosed in writing, and fil.ed in the
case.

The papers filed in the case, and broughtup -with the record, contained admissions that, by the laws of Massachusetts,
the rate of interesti s six per centum per annum, and ten pet
cent. damages on protested bills of-exchange ;. and that, by
the laws of Louisiana, the interest is five per cent. per annum on bills protested from the date of protest, and the like
damages of ten per centum.
The depositions and the evidence in the cause were also in
the.record, set out at large. The depositions proved the
course and nature of the busihess carried on by Eben Fiske at
New Orleans, and also- the particulars of some of the transactions between Mr Parsons and-Mr Fiske. The deposition
of Mr Fiske- states these transactions and' their, character
more fully. The deposition is as follows-:
.Eben Fiske, a commission merchant in New Orleans in,
1825, a witness for plaintiffs, states that in the fall of the
year 1821- he commenced 'transacting business for the defendant, Mr Parsonsof -Boston, in the city of New Orleans,
'nd. so"continued up. to th6 latter end of the summer of 1-825.
That during this period, between 1821 up. to 1825, witness
was'the only person transacting business for said William
Pa'rsbns in the city of New Orleans. That the general course
of the transactions between them was, that the said. Par-,
sons sent out to New Orleans iron, steel, nails, brads, &e.
consigned to witness, which he, witness, would sell as occasion offered, most frequently oi "credit. That the vessels of
said Parsons visited New Orleans every year, when witness,
on account of said Parsons, purchased from the merchants
of New-Orleans tobacco, cotton, logwood, and such articles
as Mr Parsons would request, which were put on board the
vessels of said Parsons, and -on his account transported to,
different ports in Europe and-America. To put himself in

416

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

fiunds for these purchases so made, witness drew his bills of
exchange on said Parsons of Boston, which had always been
duly a6cepted, and paid up. to the month of August 1825,
when, the first bill, so drawn by. witness on said Parsons, was
protested. The purichases so made by witness each year, in
the'business season, for.the articles required by Mr'Parsons, were to a large, amount, from fifty thousand to one
hundred thousand dollars annually: that accounts current
were kept between them, witness and said Parsons; that
witness would -chargb said Parsons with purchases made for
him, as'well as'for the disbursements of his vessels and.other
.expenses and charges, and would credit said Parsons with
bills drawn on him from time to time, and the proceeds of
nails, iron, steel, &c. as sold. - The nature of transactions
between witness and said Parsons will appear frm the ac-'
counts.
In June 1825, witness pqrchased, on-account of said Parsons, from James Armor, a merchant of New Orleans, one
,hundred aad eighty hogsheads of tobacco, the nett amount of
which (after deducting, as customary, one half of the expenses
of cooperage) was $'17,311 92 cents, for which witness drew
bills of exchange at sixty days sight, on William Parsons at
Boston; all of which were paid, except two: to wit, one bill
for $1443 29 cents, and the other for $4123 7i cents, which
.said two last bills, were protested, foe non-acceptance and
non-'payment by the said Parsons. At the-time witness went
to'said Armor to purchase said tobacco, he- stated to said
Armor that he was about to purchase the same on. account of
William Patsons, and that he would give bills on the said
Parsons. Witness.Ihen showed said Armor the letters of said
Parsons which refer to the. order for purchasing. tobacco for
loading the Mary and Betrey :-witness, on some, occasions,
would show letters of said .Parsons to merchanfs in. ew
Orleans from whom he.was about making-purchases, but did
not'show all said letters.
From the course of business between witness and - said
Parsons for the sevbral years that he had been transacting
business for said Parsons in New Orleans, their business had
become generally known in gaid city; and from the' great

JANUARY TERM 1830.

.417,

[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

number .ofbills which witness had annually drawn on said
Parsons, these bills had gained currency in the market of
New Orleans, and he has no doubtthat they were received
by the several merchants who took them, under the firm
conviction' that Parsons would accept; at the time the, purchase was made from-Mr Armor in 1825, two vessels, the
Mary and Betsey, belonging to said Parsons, were lying
in the port of New Orleans, waiting for cargoes of tobacco,
which witneis had been instructed by said Parsons to puy -.
chase for him ; witness purchased, 'in 1824, -tobacco fiom
James Armor' for William Parsons, and which was paid for
by drawing bills on said Parsons by witness,'all of which
were duly paid by William Parsons. The one hundred'and
eighty hogsheads of tobacco referred to were, after ihey
were *so purchased from James Armor, shipped on- William
Parson's account on board his vessels aforesaid to Europe.
At the time, in August 1"8W5, w'hen William Parsons began
to protest the bills of witness, he, witness, had on -hand'a
quantity of steel belonging to said Parsons unsold, and had
also sold iron, nails, &c. to a considerable am6unt, which
was not then due, and which could not be applied to the
purchases.
In the balance of $11,631 23 dents against witness, as per
account current in 'November 1824, were included some of
witness's exchange on Mr Parsons, as witness had overdrawn
the amount of purchases, havihg sustained a very heavy loss
by the'failure of A. Fiske, in 1822.
In the season of 1825, the purchases of witness for Mr
Parsons, and the disbursements of his vessels, and the amount
ofdrafts drawn after the rendition of accounts in November
1824, up to the close of operations in purchasing aid'drawing in 1.825, will appear from correspondence and accounts.
The amount of bills drawn in 1825, and which were" protested by Mr Parsbns; was about -39,137-79' cents.;, witness, from his declarations, and the. course of.his business,
must have been known as. acting for Mr Parsons in'these
purchases of the mhercha~pts of .New Orleais.. The vessels
of Mr Parsons had left the port of Orleans..previous to any
'VOL. 1II.-3 C-

SUP4EME COURT.
[Parsonsvs. Armor and Qb&ey.4

intelligence having been .Teceiyed at. New Orleans of his.
protesting witness's bills.
Witness states that. when he made purchases, the billsof
parcels were made out in witness's own name, and the. accounts assured in the boQks of~te different merchants i his
name; that this'is-the usual manner in which bills of parcels
are. made out, and accounts-kept in'New Oileans, although it
maybe well known-botween the parties that-the merchant
who sells-is selling, the property of others on commission,
and that he who buys is buying as the.agent ot another.

-

Witness -had-been "instructed, as appears by the letters of
Xifr-Parsons, to.re-soll any tobacco not suited to the market
to-,hich Mr R. was shipping, when, in purchasing a7lot, he,
witness, should be obliged to take some of. such qmality;
witness did accordingly re-sell a few hogjsheads,.which had
been principally. purchased from Bedford, Breedfove and
Robeson. .CaptainMayo was then herevwith. the Mary.
Witness, by his letters of the Ist of July 1825, informed Mr
Parsons that-he had pukchased one hundred and forty hogs.;
heads, wVhieli was stowed on. the 7th of- the same month,
previous to wnich the tobacco had been weighed, and found
to be-only one bundred and thirty-two hogsheads. No reference was made to that Of the .1st Df July, as vitnesswrote.
in -haste, being about dispatching tle Betsey and Mary. The
information of Captain Mayd, as given to fdr Parsons, as appears from Mr Parsons's letters,-that hewitness,,was selling
tobacco to the extent*it-wab construed by Mr .:Parsons, as
he states in his letters, was incorrect. -as witness had only
re-sold as. before stated...
Gross-examined. . Fiske was a commission merchant in
New Orleans, and was the .-correspondeht of Parsons, frofa
whom,he received goods on consignment for.sale, -and transacted his business exclusively in New Orleans, from the year
18at to the month of July 1825; and in all purchases made
by Fiske for Parsons, he, Fiske, freceived the- accounts and
transacted the business in his own name, and never signed
his' name as agent f6r Parsons.
EBEN FISKE.

JANUARY.TERM 18390.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

The whole-correspondence- betweenMrParsonsad Zben
Fiske was set forth-at large in the record, -commencing ori
twe 19th of October, 1821, and terminating 3n. the 19fh of
November'1825.
The Airst letter from the plaintiff -in error to-Eben Fiske,
was dated October-I, 1821 ; and theletter under the authority-in which their transactions commenced, was.dated Oc-.
tober -19, 1.811. Those letters were as follows:
Boston, October 1&t, 1821.

Mn

EBEN FxsKE,

Sir- I am sorryatany time, especially:at the commence-ment of c corres~sondence with you, to -request a ravur,which you may think unpleasant, but hope. you may be induced to comply with. My request is, that you would -call
on Messrs William-and Nathaniel Wyer, for advice respecting a balance I have in their hands, -btit at my risk. You
have, above a copy of-part of their letter to me, dated 27th
Febroty 1819 ; from that to the present day, I have-not
been able to get any reply .from them to my letters on that
subject. I wish you to call on them for an explanation;
if they have received the money, please to.receive it -from
them; if they have not, presuming you must know the perton who purchased the steel, you can determine if it can
ever be collected. I wish you to pursue such measures to
have the debt collected, as if-it-was your own.
I enclose.you a letter foi Messrs Wyer after reading,
please to seal, and hand it-to them.
I am, very respectfully, your'humble servant,
WILLIAM PARSONS.
Boston, October 19th; 1821.
MR EBN isFIsKE,
Sir: I am sorry I had not the pleasure of a personal interview with you, when you were in Boston; I received your
letter. I have concluded to send the brig Betsey, John Virgin master, for New Orleans. She will probably sail next
week; if you can purchase one hundred and fifty hogsheads of
very good old tobacco, should there be any at market; one

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

hundi-ed bales of clean white Tennessee.or Alabama cotton;
and to fill up with-good Campeachy logwood; the tobacco
not to cost more than, 4 or 41 dollars, the logwood from

18 to 22 dollars; if higher than that, take only as-much as,
will stow in breakage, and fill up with tobacco and cotton,
one half each. If these articles can be procured, I wish it
done at. once: if the tobacco- cannot be. procured by the
brig,.I will give captain .Virgin instructions to-communicate
to you what to load the vessel with. 'You will please draw
on-me for the funds to.pay for the cargo.
I am,&c.
WILLIAM PARSONS.
October!20th. You will please to supply captain Virgin
with'his adventure, apdtake his draft on me for the amount,
say, ten or twelve hundi ed dollars, which shall be,duly honoured, -or eharge.me with the amount, in account y also furi.
nish captain Virgin with the adventures for some others,. and
charge to account as above.
I am, respectfully, your humble servant,
WILLIAM PARSONS.
On the 9thof June and. on the .8th of .August 1825, tho
plaintiff in error Wrote to .Elen Fisk,, as.follows':
Boston, June 9, 1825.
Mr Enmr Fisvn;

Dear Sir: I have your favours of the 30th of April and
5th of May. I wishthat your -opinion may prove correct,
and that tobacco may be at such. 'a price that you may .be.
able to load the Mary and Betsey. The Mary, from my letters to baptain Mayo and yourself, I think youwill -load,
but fear the'market in Gibraltar w.ill not rise in proportion'.
From mylast accounts, Mr Sprague was selling at $7j per
.cwt. The article in Gottenburg, late in April, was very
clu, and had risen but a very trifle.- If the Betsey cannot
be loaded for Gottenburg, get a freight for her ,for New
York or Boston, or any northern port. Apply all the funds
'you have, and which you say will be convenient for you to

JANUARY TERM. 1830.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

invest, to load the Mary.

It will not answer to pirchase

forthe Gibraltar and Gottenburg markets for another.voy.age, to stand at a higher rate than my limits. You may
possibly be able to purchase -two hundred hogsheads of
very fine, not to go .higher than -6A cents, 'By purchasing
late, you will be able to apply the proce4s of fiails, sold,
wfiich will then be due. As you have given me assurances
that you will apply all my funds in your hands at that period,
I cannot have any doubt oh the subject.
The Betsey is insured in this city. The papers must be.
clear and regular, to recover from the underwriters. I enclose a letter f6r Captain Wallis, shouldhe be with you, in
conformity with what I write you. ' Yourdaftof the. 6th of
April, to John Clark, sixty days, for $372 18.cents," without
advice, has been paid.
I am respectfully, your humble setvant,
WILLIAM PARSONS.
Boston, duguit 8, 1825.
MR EBaN FiSKE,
Dear Sir: I wrote you on the 26th of July and 4th instant. I now enclose you an abstract of my account with
you. From my -letters to you the past season, youwill
readily perceive my determination to have.my account set-.
tled with you this season. *The payment for the one hundred and thirty-two hogsheads of tobacco you purchased to
ship to Boston, I shall not accept for until I receive it myself, or by my agents. . If, from any cause, it should not be
shipped before you receive this, -I request you to deliver it
to Messrs Howard and Merry; also, any nails or steel you
may have unsold, or the notes received for any nails or steel
which are not paid for-. also, Mrs Richards's note, a bad
debt, for $673 23 cents. Their receipt shall be evidence
for me to pay any balance that may be due on settlement of
the adcount. Your drafts not come to hand, to a larger
amount than the last of *the one hundred and thirty-two,
hogsheads of tobacco, will give you time to comply with the
foregoing requisition from me.
I am, respectfully, your humble servant,
WILLIAM PARSONS.

422

:,SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Arnor and .O1key.]

The letter advising of the drafts,. which:were the subject
of.the suit, 'was this following:.1Viw Orleans,, 2d ofJuly, 1825*
rFAsoNs, Esq.
Sir,' I hare'drawn:0n.3;ou this -date( for three drafts, as
follows, favour.Jobn Clark,
"Na.,49, for $4123 71 cents, 60qdayg,. three per cent discount, net $4000.
No,43 for $144.3 29 cents,. 60 days, three per cent discount, net .$1400.
No,44,, for 631 75 cents, 60 ddys,., three per c~nf discout,-net $1583.
The.above- ire in place of exchange, advised under dates
-of yestetday,- of the same numbers,, and which by mistake
were dawi fAr the pet amount, instead of the-.gros, The
same' are destroyed.
I am,. respecifully, your obedient-servant,
EBEN FISKE.
WiILBI

the circit court,
.Judgment was given -for.ihe-plaintifi irt
whereupon the defdndant.brought this Writ of ertor*
Such of the facts and- correspondence as were- considered
important, and which have been omitted in this statement;
are referred to in the opinion of..the court.
The. errorsi.assigneid were:
1. Fiske - was n6t the agentf of Parsons, nor was he authorized to-purchase on Parsons's account.
'2. The.mercnandise was~not in fact sold on the credit of
Parsons, but on the credit-ef Fis.ke, :oE on the belief that
Parsons would accept his.bills.
3.' The facts and correspondence do. not show that Parsons was bound to accept the-bills.
Mr.Livingston and Mr-Webster, for the plaintiff in -error;
after an examination of the facts of-the case, contended:
that the principle uponwhich the court below had proceeded,. ouldmake Parsons liable for all the bills drawn .by
Fiske in the course of his business in: New Orleans. The

JANUARY TERM 1830.

423-

[Pa-sons bs. Armor.and Oakey.'

real nature of the :transactions between Fiske and, the plaintiff were fully shown'by. the testimony of Fiske., ,It was a
dealing between az.factor and-his principal; the principal
being abrqad' and not known. In such a case fire factor
alone is liable.. Paley on Agency, 257. 1 Bos. & Pul. 363.
3 Bos. & Pul. 489. Buller's Nisi Prius, 130.- 4 Taunt. Rep.
574.
It is agrded that Armor'can only make Parsons liable as
a p.urchaser of the property. - 2 Livermore, 199'. If Fiske
was-the purchaser, Parsofis was not liable.
. Parsons could only be liable on one of two grounds; either
that the original credit was-given to him, br -that Fiske 'was
authorised to draw. on him for the purchases;specifically.
These-are not.supported by the evidenciE
.An authority to draw gives -a fight "to the holder of .the
bill as holder, not to the vendor of the-goods as vendor, in
payment of which the bill was given. " Suppose Fiske haddrawn two bills, one for the paymdnt of.the goods, the other
for his own use. The refusal of Parsons to accept the, bill
would have made him liable to Fiske only.
The case of' Cooledge vs. Payson, 2 Wheat. 66, decides
that.the drawer is liable to pay a billafter a particular promise to accept it. Cited 'also, Shimmplpennick vs'. Bayard,
'-Peters,'264. The doctrine contended-f6t, onAthepartof the
plaintiff -below, would'rentler Parsons. liable both to the
vendor and tb Fiske. To Fiske, by'non-acceptanoe of the
bill-; to the vefidor;-for-the, goods. If both can recover there
would be two concurrent creditors for the same debt; .which
is impossible, according to the' cases cited.'. -15 East,-64.
The case is then one of factor and principal abroad; -rand
the 'case in -Taunton shoWs, that the situation ofthe foreign
principal is not altered, whether or not the goods came to
hjs hands.
. There is nothing in the correspondence which will authorise the assertion, that there was a general direction to buy
the particular property on bills. :It is said Fiske was the genoral agent; *e say he was the factor.
* Mr Jones, for the defendant, argued ; that there was evi-

,SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

dence in the case sufficient-to show that Fiske was the agent,
and Parsons the principal in the transactions out of which
the claims arose, and that Fiske had power to draw the bills.
A commission merchant may-not be an agent, but their
characters are perfectly consistent; and in the case before
the court, the articles were not purchased dn account of thd
agent; but for Parsons. If one is in the habit of purchasing
for 'another, as Fiske was in this case, and so acting for four
years; this is evidence of agency, in the absence of proof to
show that it had ceased. Though the-agent should exceed
his private in'structions, it would not affect those who deal
with him as agent, or impair their claims on the principal.
I In this case there is no complaint that the instructions
were exceeded; the reason for.not paying the bills was not
this, but that a balance'was due from the agent to the principal, and that he .should have paid for the purchases obt of
*funds ir.his own hands.
• -He had authorised Fiske to draw, without iegard to the
balance due to him.
Mr Justice JOHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause is brought up. by writ of error from the district
court of Louisiana district, exercising circuit court j'urisdiction, in a suit in which the cause of action was in the nature
of a quantum valebat, for a quantity of tobacco sold; but according to the practice of that court, the suit was prosecuted
in the forms of the civil law, and the judgment rendered by
the court, the parties having waived the trial by jury. The
record consists~of the petition, the answer, the whole tesiimony, as well depositions as documents, introduced by either
party, and the fiat of the judge that Armor, the plaintiff below, recover the debt as demanded.
In the •argument, counsel considered the cause as in
nature of a case' stated, -that is, a substitute for a special
verdict; but this court could not avoid noticing that the precedent might involve it in tle necessity of exercising jurisdiction over cases of a very different character. This writ
of error does not bring up a mere statement of facts, but a

JANUARY TERM' 1830.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

mass of testimony, and however consistent and reconcilable the testimony may be in this case, it may be very different in future causescoming up from the same quarter, and
by means of the same process.
The difficulty is to decide under what character we shall
consider the present reference to the revising power of this
court. If treated strictly as a writ of error, it is certainly
not an attribute of that writ, according to common law dec-.
trihe, to submit the testimony as well as the law of the case
to-1he revision of this court; and then there is no mode in
which we could treat the case, but in the nature of a bill-of
exceptions; that is, to confine ourselves entirely to the question, whether, giving the utmost force to the testimony in favour
of the party in possession of the judgment below, he was legally entitled to a judgment. But this would often lead this
court to decide upon a case widely different from that acted
upon in the cou'rtbelow. Ther e maybe conflicting testimony,
and questions of credibility in the cause, which this court
would be compelled to pass by. This would be increasing
appellate jurisdiction on principles very different from the
received opinions and judicial habits of that state;. and it has
been argued, equally inconsistent with the rights extended
to them by congress.
We feel no difficulty from the bearing of the seventh amendment of the constitution in this case; because if this be a suit at
common law in the sense of the amendment, the object was
to secure a right to the individual, and that right has been
tendered to' him and declined. The words of the amendment are, "the right to the trial by jury shall be preserved."
Nor are we at liberty to treat this as an appeaZ'ina cause of
-equity jurisdiction under the act of 1803; because the party
.has not brought up his cause by appeal, but by writ of
error.
The present case is. one which may be treated as a bill of
exdeptions, or a case submitted; since, giving the utmost
force to the testimony in favour of Armor, we are of opinion
that the judgment must be reveised. We shall proceedi
'thbrefore, to examine the merits upon that principle, withVoL. 111.-3 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Armor.and Oakey.]

out committing ourselves either upon the extent of the appellate power of this court over that of Louisiana, or the
appropriate means of exercising it.
The merits of this case may be comprised within the following state of facts:
Parsons was a merchant and considerable ship owner,
established in Boston, and in the habit of trading to New
Orleans. Eben Fiske was a commission merchant, established in New Orleans, with whom Parsons opened a correspondence on the 1st of October 1821, with a commission to
call up*on his previous correspondents, W. and N. Wyer,
for a balance supposed to be in their hands. The transactions, in the course of which the purchase was made which
constitutes the present cause of action, commenced with-the
letter of the 19th of October 1821 ; the tenor of which furnishes the true exposition of the nature and extent of the
mandatory power under which Fiske acted for Parsons. The
material passages are these:
"I have concluded to send the brig Betsey, John Virgin
master, for New Orleans. She will probably sail next week.
Ifyou can. purchase one hundred and fifty hogsheads of very
good tobacco,.should there be any at market, &c. If these
articles can be procured, I wish it done at once, &c. You
*will plea§6 draw on me for the funds to pay for the cargo."
The examination of Fiske furnishes -these further explanations of the relation in which he acted with regard to Parsons. In the latter part of his deposition he says, "he was
the correspondent of Parsons, from whom he received goods
on consignment,- and transacted his business.exclusively in
New Orleans from the year 1821 to July 1825; and in all
purchases by him for Parsons, received the accounts and
transacted the business in his own name, and never signed
his name as agent for Parsons ;" and further, "that when
be made purchases, the bills of parcels were made out in
his, Fiske's, name, and the accounts assured in the books of
the different merchants in his name." And in the commencement of his deposition, he says, "that the general
course of the transactions between them was, that the said
Parsons sent out to New Orleans iron, steel, &c. consigned

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

to witness, which he would sell as occasion offered, most
frequently on credit. That the vessels of the said Parsons visited New Orleans-every year; when witness, on account of said Parsons, purchased from the merchants of
New Orleans tobacco, cotton, &c., and such articles as
Parsons would request, which- were put on board of Parsons'
vessels, and on his account transported to different ports of
Europe and Ame'ricgi. To put himself in funds for these
purchases so made, witness drew his bills of exchange on
said Parsons, which had always been duly accepted and paid,
until August 1825." "That witness would charge said Par.sons with purchases made for him, as well as for the disbursements of his vessels and other expenses and charges; aid
would. credit said Parsons with billsdrawn on him from time
to time, and the proceeds of nails, iron, steel, &c. as sold;"
and then refers generally to the account.s annexed to the
.deposition for further explanations on the nature of their
dealings.
By reference to these accounts it'appears that the bills
-were disposed of generally at market as opportunity offered;
and that he never acted under the idea of being .restricted
to the drawing of bills to, pay the vendor in that. mode, specifically, for each purchase.
.With regard to.- the particular purchase under consideration; Fiske swears that. the payment in bills made a part of
the contract, and that the bills drawn were all paid except
two, making up the balance here sued for. And it has been
thought to have. some influence upon the merits of plaintiff's
demand, that at the time of this purchase, Fiske stated to
Armor that he was about to purchase on account .of Parsons, and showed him the letters of Parsons which refer to
the order. to purchase tobacco for loading the Mary and
Betsey; for which object this purchase was made. How far
the case of the plaintiffs below can be aided by those letten
will presently be seen.
The simple question under this state of facts is, was Parsons chargeable to Armor as vendor of this parcel of tobacqo . This must be decided either upon the general

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

powers vested in Fiske, or the particular circumstances of
this purchase.
The general rule is, that a principal is bound by the act
of his agent no farthef than he authorises that agent to
bind him; but the extent of the power given to an agent is
deducible as well from facts as from express delegation. In
the estimate or application of such facts, the lawiias regard
to public security, and often applies the rule, that "he who
trusts ipnust pay." So, also, collusion with an agent to get
a debt paid,' through the intervention of one in failing circumstances, has been held to make the principal chargeable
on the ground of immoral dealing. To one or other of
these headg all the cases are reducible; and into one or
.other of these classes it is necessary to bring the present
case, or Parsons is not chargeable.
It has been argued, that Fiske was the general agent of
Parsons, for the purchase of cargoes to load his vessels, and
as such had power ta bind him as original vendee to this
plaintiff. That he possessed a general power to draw bills
in payment for such cargoes, and was either bound to aciept
such bills, or became bound by colluding to create a credit
to Fiske, which exposed the community to imposition.,
.But all this argument tui'ns upon a misapprehension of
-the nature of the transactions between Parsons and Fiske.
Every one knows that a bill of exchange is the substitute
-for the actual transmission of money by sea or land. Power
therefore to draw upon a house in good credit, and to throw
those bills upon the market; is equivalent to a deposit of
cash in the vaults of the agent. There is not the least tittle
of evidence in the cause to show that Parsons meant to use
the credit of Fiske, or to authorise him to pledge the credit
of Parsons in any thing but the iegotiation of bills. This
depended on the confidence which merchants who wished
to remit from New Orleans w6uld place in the sdlvency
and integrity of the drawer and drawee,, and had no connection whatever with the application of the money thus
raised to the purchases ordered by the principal. As to
those purchases, the agent was authorized to go nD farther

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

than to apply the funds deposited with him. And the case
is reduced to the plain and simple rule to be found every
where, from the time of Shower and Lord Holt, doivn; "that
if I give my servant money to purchase for me, and he se
it, and purchase on credit, I -am not bound, though the article come in fact'to my use."
There are few, if any cases, to be found in modern English
books on this subject; for ihe plain reason, that the nature
and effects of such a commission or employment, are toowell understood in that country to have admitted of litigation. All the cases which have arisen there of a recent
-date, except where the ground of collusio n"has been resorted to, are cases of purchases on credit. Such are those
of Addison and Gandasequi, and some others that have been
quoted. The case of Wilson vs. Hart, 7 Taunt. 295, was
a case of collusion.
If, in the piesent case, Parsons were chargeable with any
unfair dealing, or the practice, of uncandid or collusive
means of saving the balance for which it appears Fiske had
overdrawn; it cannot be questioned that he is chargeable.,
But on this part of the case two considerations are important, the, first of which relates to the aniount of the bills
which Parsons refused to accept, and the second, the particular notice 'communicated to Armor of the object and
limits of Fiske's power to draw.
Of the general power to protest the bills of one wh6 has
overdrawn, there can be no question, for it is the only security which one who gives a power to draw bills and throw
them on the market, or perhaps to draw at all, has against
the bad faith of his correspondent. On this subject he takes
the "risk of paying the damages, if in fault, or of throwing
them on the other, if he has actually abused his trust. It is'
a question between him and his correspondent.
It'is true that in this case the amount protested appears'
to hav6 gone far beyond the balance acknowledged by Fiske.
BUL then Fiske held a laige quantity of tobacco in store,
which Parsons.might very well'suppose would not be given
up to- hi's brder after protest of the bills; and in refusing payment to such an amount may have had in view an indemnity.

SUPREME COURT.
[Parsons vs. Armor and Oakey.]

against this further loss; a loss which actually was incurred;
so that in this he is not chargeable with mala fides.
The second consideration is equally important in its bearing upon this part of the case.
Parsons, in his correspondence, alleges as his justification
for refusing acceptance, that he had limited Fiske- in his
purchases foi the Mary and Betsey, to the application of the
funds in his hands. The balance due- on general account
by a correspondent is, in mercantile language, a fund in his
hands; and so the correspondence shows that it was understood to be in this instance. Fiske swears, that, at the time
of the purchase from Armor, he showed Armor the letters
from Parsons,' on the subject of the purchase of the cargo
for the Mary and Betsey, .and by referring to the letters of
the-9th of June and 5th of July'1825, which must be here
meant, we find both expressly referring to the application of
"funds in hand,"-and the latter intimating that the whole purchase will scarcely absorb "all the funds in hand."So direct an intimation that the purchase of these cargoes was to balance the accounts between them, removes
all ground for imputing collusion to parties.
As to the currency given to these bills by the regular acceptance and payment of them up to the date of the bills;
if this is to deprive a merchant of the only check he has for
his security, by preventing him from ever refusiqg his acceptance, credit wouild become a misfortune.
Nor does it affect the merits of this. cause, that the origihal contract was made for. a payment in bills. Such was
not the negotiation to which Parsons had limited Fiske; it
was no more, as between Parsons and Armor, thana pu chase of bills, with the cash received for the tobacco; and
a purchase against which Armor was not without a warning, furnished by the letters which Fiske, his own witness,
swears he submitted to Armor, prior to the negotiation. It
was creating new funds for a purchase, not purchasing with.
the funds already created, or in the hands of Fiske.
Judgment reversed.

