JANUARY TERM 1830.

FkmtAI

AND

BtowN

vs.. TnE U'rTnD STATzs.

The practice has uniformly been, since the the seat, of government was removed
to Washington, for the clerk of the court to enter at the first term to which
any writ of error or appeal is returnable,' in cases in which the United States
,ae'iarbies, the appearance of the attorpey general of-the United States. This
practice has never.been objected to.' -The practice.would not be conclusive
against the'attorney general,. if he should at the ,first term withdraw his appearance, or move tdstrike it off. But'if he lets it pass for one term, it is conclusive Ypon him, as t an appearance.
The'decisions of this court have iuwiformly.beert,.that an appearance cures anydefects in ,the form of'process.

MR BENTON moved the court for leave to reinstatethis
case, which had been dismissed on a former day of the term.
for want of an appearance of the plaintiffs-in error.
At the first term, when the writ of error was filed, -the
clerk. of the court had entered the appearance of.the attoiey
general of the .United States, accoxding to the usual practice in such cases,
The attorney general now said, he should not object to the
-reinstatement if the court thought it proper under'the circumstances ; but he had intended. to take- an' objection at
the. tijie when the suit was dismissed, if any pe-rson had
then appeared. It was, that the citation for the writ of error
w.qs returnable to a day out of term, to wit : on 'the first
Monday of January 1828, instead of the second, Monday of
that, year..
Mr Chief Justice M.ASHALr. delivered the opinion of the
court as follows:
The practice: has tiriformly been, ever since, the seat' of
government was removed to Washington, for the clerk'to,
enter, at the -first terfn to which any writ of error or appeal
is returnable, the appearance of theattorney general in every
case to which the United States are a party, by entering his
name on the docket.. This practice must have been known
to every attorney general, and has never bee,, objected to

SUPREME -COURT.
[Farrar and Brown vs. The United States.]

It might be considered, therefore, as having an implied acquiescence on the part of the attorney general ; although it
is admitted that there is no evidence of any express assent.
We do not say that this practice would be conclusive against
the*attorney general, if he should at the first term withdraw
such appearance, or move to .strike it out, in order to take
advantage .of any irregularity in the service of process. But
if he lets it pass for that ternn without objection; we think
it is conclusive upon him as to an appearance.
The decisions of this court have uniformly beeti that an
appearance cures any defect in the service of process ; and
there is nothing to distinguish this .case from the general
doctrine. The cause therefore is ordered to be reinstated.
On consideration of the motion made by the attorney
general on the part of the defendants in error in this cause,
to dismiss the writ of error in this cause, on the ground that
the citation is made re Lurnable to a day during the vacation,
to wit, on the first Monday in January, A.D. 1828, whereas the return day should have been the second M6nday in
January, A.D. 1828,. it is ordered by the court, that inasmuch as the said defect is cured by the appearance of the
attorney general on the part of the defendant, said motion
be, and the same is hereby overruled.

