THE DECISIONS
or

THE -SUPREME COURT OF THE 'UNITED -STATES
AT

JANUARY TERM 1830.

EX33CU=x

OF RldHa&iD W. MIZ&iB; i cxL'srD, DBPEiniA

iN

A commission, was issued in'the niame of 'Richard M. Meade, the namd
of the
error In -aking out
deftndant being Wlichad W'Meade. This'Is a clerical
the commrigsion, and does not'affect the eiecution of the commIssion. [6]
It may well be questioned whether the mtladle letter of a name forms-any part
d the, chrlstian nalne of a-pirty. It is said the law knows only of on6 christian name, and there are'adjudged cases strongly countenaniing, If not fully
establishing, that the'entire omission o( k middle letter is not a misnofer or,
variaoce. [.7J.
A witneis, thd elerk of the ,laintif. examined under a commission, sthted the
payment of a sufiiof money to have been made by him to ihe defendant, and
that the defendant at his'request made-an entry in the plaintiff's rough cash
book, w iting-his paifne at frll length, and stating.the sum paid to him,.rit so
much for the sake of the receipt, as in oider for him, the vOltness," toribecome
'acquainted with -his signature, apd the way of spelling hisname. It is not
necessary' to jroduce the book in which the entry was meae, and paiol
evidence of the payment of the money is legal.. It cankot be laid down as
-a universal rule, that where written evidence 'f a fact exists, all parol eyldence
of the same fact is exquded. [7]
Itis not known that iher is any.'piactice in the execution or return of a commission, requiring i- ce~iificate,*in whose hind writing the depositionsreturned
with the comrnlssioh.&re taken-down. ' All that the commission requires is,

VOL. 111.-A

SUPREME.COURT.
[Keene vs.Meade.]
that the commissioners, having reduced the depositions taken by thim to
writing,_ should stnd them with" the commission. under their hands and seals
*to the judges of the court out of which the commission issued. But it is
immaterial in whosb hand writing. the depositions are; and it cannot be required that they should certify any immaterial fact. [8]
A certificate by the commissioners,thlat A. B. whom they were going, to em.
jiloy as a clerk had been sworn, idmits of nb 6ther reasonable interpretation
than that A. B. was the person appointed by them as clerk. [9]
It is not necessary to return with.the commission the form of the oath administered by the commissioners to the witnesses. When the commissioners certify, the witnesseswere sworn, and the interrogatories annexed to the comneission were all put'to them, it is presumed that they Were sworn and examined
as to all their knbwledge of tihe facts. [10]

ERROR to the circuit court for the county of Washington
in the disrict of Columbia.
In the circuit court the testator of the defendant in error
Richard W. Meade, instituted an action against Richard R.
Keene, the plaintiff. in error, for money lent and advanced.
to him in Spain, where Mr Meade, at-the time of the loan, resided, and carried on business as a merchant. In order to
establish the claims of the plaintiff below, a commission was
issued to Cadiz;, and under the same, certain 'depositions
were taken, which were returned with the commission. The
commission was iiirected to the commissioners in 4 case'
stated tobe de 'ending in the court in which Richad .M.
Meade was plaintiff, and Richard R. Keene defendant; and
it was returned to the court under the hands and seals of the
commissioners, who certified that the "execution of the
coimission appears in a certain schedule annexed."
In the schedule annexed- to the commission was also the
following certificate under the hands of the commissipihers.
"We the undersigned, appointed commissioners to examine evidences in .a cause .depending in -the circuit court
of the county of Washington in the district of Columbia; between Richard W. Meade plaintiff, and Richard R. Keene
defendant, do hereby certify'that we have severally taken the
oath. into the hands of each other prescribed in th-e herein
annexed commission, and we further certify that- we have
likewise administered theoath prescribedby the same herein
annexed commission, to Mr James Xll'.Cann, the clerk we
are going to.employ for the execution of the same."

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Keene vs. Meade.]

The commission "required the commissioners, or a majority of them, to cause to come before them all such evidences
as shall be named or produced to them by either the plaintiff or defendant; and to examine them on oath touching
their knowledge or remembrance of'any thing relating to the
cause." The record does not show that any interrogatories
were annexed to the commission.
The commissioners- also certify as to the execution-of the.
commission in the following words, "We the undersigned
do-certify that,' in compliance with our duty, we. shall examine the witnesses upon the following interrogatories, which
we deem necessary first to establish."
Interrogatories ieturned with the commission, were then
administered to ihe witnesses, and the.separate answers to
each written and returned.
Frederick Rudolph, who was the clerk and book keepe
of Mr Meade, testified as to one of the items of the account,
!! that on the defendant's receiving two hundred and fifty
dollars, the defendant himself made the entry thereof in the
rough cash book, writing his name at full length, probably
at my own request, not so much for the sake of the receipt,
as in order for me to become acquainted with his signature,
and the way of spelling his name."
'On the trial of the cause, the counsel for the defendant
objected to the reading of the commission on the ground
of a variance in the name of the plaintiff in the commission;
the "plaintiff being called. Richard X1. Meade, instead -of
Richard W. Meade.' This objection was overruled by the
court; the defendant's counsel also objected.to the deposition of F.. Rudolph, so far as the same went to prove the
item of $250 in the plaintiff's account; alleging as the ground
of the objection, that as there was a written acknowl'edgement
made by the defendant, the writing should be produced,- and
the same could not be proved by parol. The plaintiff by his
'counsel offered to withdraw, and staled that he withdrew and
*aJved that part of the deposition which went to prove the
existence of a written acknowledgement or receipt, and he
relied qnly on the proof of the actual payment of the amount

SUPREME COURT.
[Keepe vs. Meade.]

paid by the witness. The court overruled the objection and
permitted the evidence to be read.
Thedefendant by his counsel also objected to the reading
of the depositions returned with the commission, because the
commissioners h~d not certified in whose hand writing the depositions were takbn down, nor that they had appointed a
clerk, nor administered the oath to their clerk, as required
by the said commission; nor that the said witnesses were
required, to testify all their knowledge or remembriamce -of
any thing, that, may relate. 'to the- said cause; nor that they
were swor.nso to do,'but were examined on particular interrogatories propounded by the" commissioners themselves.
But the court oerruled the objections', and permitted the depositions:to be read in evidence to the jury, &c.
Theclefendant's counsel excepted to the-opinion of the
court, on the objections made to thek evidence,,and the court
sealed a bill of exceptions: upoa which the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.'
Mr Key, for the plaintiff in error, contended, that as there
was written evidence of the payment of the sum of $250, it
should'ha(ve been produced; and that in its-absence, no allegation of.its loss having been made, parol proof of its contents could not be given. 'The entry-in the book was the
origm.,al and superior evidence;
The offer of the plaintiff's counsel to strike out that part
of the deposition of Rudolph which referred to the written
entry, did notprevent the influence of the fact that such evidence- existed, nor aeprive the defendant of his right to its
production.
- As-to the misnomer of the-plaintiff, he argued that the
commission was an ex parte proceeding, and a strict scrutiny
of it is warranted and demandable. -The misnomer shtws a
differeat plaintiff from the real plaintiff in the cause.
He objected io the execution of the commission, as it did
not appear that the interrogatories were those of the'parties
to the cause, but had' been framed and put by the commissioners, without notice of the same. Nor did it appear that

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Keene vs. Meade.]

the clerk,. who was sworn; wrote down the examinations of
the witnesses' the certificate stating only that the clerk'was
sworn, whom the commissiohers "were about toemploy."
The clerk does noi attest the depositions.
He also contended that the other matters stated in the
court below were legal objections to the 'commission. Cited
5 Har. and John. 43$.
Mr Lee and Mr Jones, fo- the defendant in err6r, maintained, that the objections .made by the plaintiff in error
were merely technical,.and such as were exclusively in the
power of the circuit court. This court has decided agiinst
such objections as ground of error.- 7 Cianch, 208.
As to the variance, it was said it was immaterial; or if
material, should have been the subject of a plea,; and if it
had been pleaded, the plaintiff could-have cured the defect
by an averment that the person -named in the commnission
and the plaintiff Were the same Cited 5 Bac. Ab. 215. -1
Wash. Rep. 257. 1 T. R. 235.
The evidence of Rudolph was not to prove the contents
of the mem6randum, but the advance of the moliey by the
witness as the. plaintiff's agent. The entry in the book was
but secondary evidence of the payment.; and to- claim that
the whole of'the 'account book should have been annexed to
the commission was unrea nable; and yet it must have been
so annexed, if the position of.tM plaintiff in error is correct.
It was also contended, that upon a fair construction of the
certificate of the commissioners, the execution of the commission was legal and proper.
Mr Justice TnomrsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on a writ of error to the circuit court
of the district of Columbia, and the questions for decision
grow out of bills of exception taken at the trial, and relate
to-the admission of evidence offered.on the part of the plaintiff, 'and objected to by the defendant.
'The first objection was to the admission of the depositions
taken under a commission issued under a rule or order of
the court below, on the ground of a variance in the name of

SUPREME COURT.
,[Keene vs. Meade.]

the testator Meade, as set out in the commission, from that
stated, in the title of the cause. The commission purports
to be in a cause between -Richard X1W.
Meade plairitiff, *and
Richard R. Keene defendant, whereas the name of the
plaintiff is Richard W. Meade. The whole variance therefore consists hi the use of M instead of W, the middle letter in the plainftiff's name. This objection, we think, was
properly oyerruled. It was .mere clerical mistake in
making out-the commission., The rule or order of the court
for the commission was in 'the right name, Richard W.
Meade; aid the oath taken by-tile commissioners, and administered to 'the blerk and the witnesses who were examined, and all the proceedings under the commission were
in the cause according to its right title. It was a mistake
of the officer of the court, which the court on motion might
have corrected on the return of-the commission. It may
'be regarded as mere matter of form, and which has not
in any manner misled the parties. And indeed it may well
be questioned whether the defendant was at liberty to raise
this objection. It'has been urged at the bar, that this was
an ex parte commission, taken out by the plaintiff, and that
the defendant has therefore -waived nothing. But the re.cord now .before this court warrants no such conclusion.
The mode and manner of taking out the commiosion -is governed and regulated by the practice of the court below,
and of which this court cannot judge. From the commission itself, and the interrogatories upon which the witnesses
were examined, it would- appear to have been a joint commission. The commissioners are required to examine all
witnesses named or produced to them, either by the plaintiff
or the defendant. 'And one of the interrogatories put to the
witnesses was, do you know of any sum or sums of money
paid by the- defendant to the plaintiff, in money, bills, or
merchandizes, which are, not 'eredited'in the amount now
before you,. It can hardly be presumed, that such an'inierrogatory. would have been. put by the plaintiff. 'It was to
elicit matter' of-defence, and whidh COncerned the defendant
only.. The motion for.thecommission having-been made by
the plainti, would not precludo' the defendant from after-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Keene vs. Meade.]

wards-joining in it with the consent of the plaintiff. And
if it is to be viewed as a ,joint commission, the alleged mistake may -be considered as-made by both partiesi and not to
be taken advantage of by either; and besides,, it may well
be. questioned whether the middle letter' formed any part of
the christian name of Meade. It is said -the law knows
only of one christian name. And there are adjudged cases
strongly countenancing, if not fully establishing, that the
entire omission of a middle letter is not a misnomer or variance (Lit. 3, a. I Lord Ray. 563. 5 Johns. 84.- 4 Johns.
119, note a.4; and if so, the middle letter is immaterial, and
a wrong letter may be stricken out-or disregarded.
The general objection 'to the testimony taken under the
commission on account of the alleged variance having been
overruled, the plaintiff's counsel read the deposition, of F.
Xddolph, which, in thait part whioh went to prove the first
'item of $250 in the plaintiff's account, states that the defendant made -the entry on the plaintiff's rough cash book,
himself;. writing his name at full length, at his request, not
so much 'for the sake of the receipt, as in order for him to
become acquainted with his signature, and the'way of spel'ling his name. The witness fully proved the actual payment
of the .money. But the defendant objected to such parol
proof, as written evidence of the payment-existed and should
be produced. - This objection we think not well founded.
The entry of the. advance made by the defendant 'himself,
under the circumstances stated, cannot be considered better evidence, within the sense and meaning of the rule on
that subject, than proof of'the actual payment. The entry
in the cash book did not change the nature of the contract arising from the-loan, or. operate as an -extinguishment of it, as a bond or other sealed instrument would have
done. -If the original .entry had been produced, the hand
writing of the 'defendant must have been proved, a much
more uncertain inquiry than the fact of actual payment.
'It cahnot be laid down as a univertal rule, that where written evidence of a fact exists, all parol evidence of the same
fact must be excluded. Suppose the defendant had written
a letter to the.plaintiff acknowledging the receipt of the

SUPREME COURT.
*Keene vs. Meide.]

.money, it certainly could not be pretendea that the production of this letter would be indispensable, and exclude
all parol evidence of tLe advance. And yet it would be
written evidence.' The entry inade by. the defendant in
the'cash bo6k was not intended, 'or understood to be a receipt for the money, but made for a different purpose; and
even if a promissory 'note had been given as written evidence of the loan, the action might have been brought for
nhoney-lent, and'this proved -by parol. The note must have
been' produced on' the trial,-not however as the only competent evidence of the loan, but to be cancelled, so as to prevent its being put into circulation; a reason which does not
in any manner apply to the present case. This objectioh has
been argued at the bar, as if the court permitted the plaintiff to', withdraw or expunge that part of the deposition
which related'to the written acknowledgement, in order to
let in the parol evidence. But this view of it. l's not war'rented by the bill of ex.-eptions. This was offered to- be
done by the plhintiffs counsel, but no such permission was
given by the 'court. The parol evidence wag deemed admissible, notwithstanding the written entry of the advance.
The Parol evidence did not in any manner vary or contradict
the written, entry, and no objection could be made to it on
that ground. Nor do'es the nonLproduction of the written
entry afford any inference, that, if produced, it would have
operated to theprejudice of the plaintiff. Nor can it inany
manner injure the defendant.. The production of the written entry in evidence would not protect the defendant from
another action for the same cause, as seemed to be supposed
on the arguinent. The charge would not be cancelled on the
book, but remains the same as before trial; and the defendant's protection against another action depends on entirely
different grounds.
By the second bill of exceptions, several objections appear
to have been taken to the reading of the depositions. These
relate principally to the proceedings before the commissioners.
1. It is objected, that the commissioners hav6 not certified
in whose hand writing the depositions were taken down.

JANUARY TERM 15o.
[Keene vs. Meade."

Weder nQt aware of any practice in the execution, -and
return of a commission, requiring such a certificate. And ll
that the commission requires is, that the commissioners,
having reduced the-depositions taken -by them to writing,
should send the same, with the commission, under their hands
and seals, to the judges of the circuit court. Biut it is immaterial in whose hand writing the depositions are ;. and it cannot be required that they should certify any immaterial fact.
2. The second exception- is, that the commissioners have
not certified that they had appointed a clerk, and administered to him the oath required by the commission.
This exception does not appear to be ststained in point
of fact.
Thp commission directs the commissio4ers to administer
the apnexed oath to the person whom they shall appoint as
clerk. And they certify that they had administered the oath
annexed to tle commission to JarMes M'Canni the clerk they
were going to employ for the execution of' the same. This
certificate admits of no other reasonable interpretation, than
that the person named was the. one appointed by them as
clerk, and. it states in terms; that the krescribed oath was
administered to hidi. The inference from-the certificate is
irresistible that, thQ. person employed as the clerk 'was the
one to whom the oath was administered. And this is all the
commission required. If employed as clerk, it follows -of
course that he-must have been appointed as-such. If objections like this are tQ, set aside testimony taken- under a commission, but very few-returns will stand the test.
3. The third exception is that the witnesses were not required-to testify all their .knowledge and remembrance of
any thing that related to the said cause.
The commission does not prescribe the form 'of oath, but
directs generally, that the witnesses produced should be examined upon their corporal oaths, to be administered by the
commissionersi touching their knowledge. or remembrance
of any thing that may relate to the cause aforesaid.
The'commissioners do not certify what oath was adminisVor. III.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[Keene vs. Meade.]

tered to the witnesses. But by way of caption to the interrogatories, state, that in compliance with our duty, we shall
examine the witnesses. upon the following interrogatories,
which we deem necessary first to establish. This form of
expression may not be very accurate or intelligible. It may
probably arise from what is required of the commissioners
by their own oath, which is to examine the witnesses upon
the interrogatories now, or which may hereafter, before the
said commission is closed, be produced to, and left with the
commissioners, by either of the said parties. The interrogatories which followed this caption, were probably those which
the commissioners had, before them when the examination
commenced ; and if so, it was proper for them first to examine the witnesses upon those interrogatories, leaving the
examination open to such other interrogatories as might be
submitted to them before the commission closed. But whatever might be the reason for this particular form of expression,
it is not perceived that it warrants any conclusion, that a
proper oath was not administered to the witnesses. It cannot
be presumed 'that these interrogatories were framed by the
commissioners. It would be against the -usual course of taking testimony on a commission; and, in the absence of any
evidence to the contrary, we must assume that these interrogatories were framed by the parties in the ordinary course
of such proceedings. And if this was a joint commission, as
there is reasonable grounds to conclude it was, the interrogatories put to the witnesses did require them to testify as
to all their knowledge of any thing that related to the cause,
or at all events to whatever the parties supposed related to
it. And the commissioners expressly certify in their return, that the witnesses produced and examined were sworn.
The form of the oath administered to the witnesses is not
set out in the return, nor is it necessary that it should be;
and there is nothing from which the court can infer that the
proper oath was not administered.
There is therefore no well-founded objection taken to the
execution of this commission, and the depositions were pro-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

11

[Keene vs. Meade.]

perly admitted in evidence. The judgment of the couit
below ig accordingly affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on 'the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States. for the
district ofColumbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel: on consideration whereof, it is considered, ordered, and adjuagedby this court, that
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause b6, and
the*same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at -the
rate of six per centum per annum.

