JANUARY TER1M 1830.

193

Ex'PzAnTE TomAs WATnS.
A petition was presented_ by Tobias Watkins for a habeas corpus for the purpose
of inquiring into the legality of his confinement in the gaol of the county of
Washington, by virtue-of a judgment of the circuit court of the'United States
.of the district of Columbia, rendered in a criminal prosecution instituted against
him in that court. The petitioner alleged that the indictments under which he
was convicted and sentenced to iinprisonment, charge no offence for which
the prisoner was punishable in that court, or of which that court could take
cognizance; and consequently, that the proceedings were co,an nonjudice.
The supreme court has n.o judsdiction in criminal cases which could reverse or
affirm a judgment rendered in the'circuit court in such a case, where the record
is brought up directly by writ df error. [2013
The power of this court to award writs of habeas corpus is conferred ekpres'sly.on
this court by the fourteenth section of the judicial act,-and has been repeatedly.
exercised. No doubt exisis-respecting the power.
No law of the United States prescribes the cases in which this great writ shall
be issued, nor the power of.the court over the party broughtup by it. 'The
term used in the constitution is one which is well understood, and the judicial
act authorises the court, and all the courts of the United States, and the judges
thereof, to issue the writ "for the purpose of inquiring into the cause.of con1
mitment. [201]
The nature and powers of the writ of habeas corpus. [202]
A judgment in its nature concludes the subject on which -itis rendered, and pro.
nounces the law of the case. The judgment of a court of record *hose'furisthe judgment of thiscourt
diction is final, is as conclusive on all the world, ais
courts. It puts an
would be. It is as conclusive on this court as on 'other
[202]
it.
deciding
by
end to inquiry concerning the fact,
With what propriety can this court look into an indictment found in the cirruit
court, and which has passed into ju~gzfent before that cohrt? We have no
power to examine the proceedings on a writ of error,.and it wduld be strange,
if under colour of a writ to liberate an individual from an.unlawful.inprisonment,,the court could substantially reverse a judgment which the law ha5
placed beyond its control. An imprisonment under a judgment cannot.be
unlawful, unless that judgment be'an absolute nullity ; and it is not a nullity if.
the court has general jurisdiction of the spbject, although it should be erro."
neous. [203]
The circuit court (or the district of Columbia is a court of record, having general
jurisdiction over criminal cases. An offence cognizalle i n any court is cogni.
zable in that court. [203]
If the offence he punishable by lNw, that court is competent to inflict the pun.
ishment. The judgment of such a tribunal has all'the' obligation which the
judgment of any tribunal can have. To determine whether th&offence charged
in the indictment be legally p.unishable or notl is among theonost unquestion.
able of its powers an'dt duties. The dicision'of this question is'the exercise
of its jurisdiction, whether'ifs judgment be for or against the prisoner. The
judgment i equally binding in one case and in the bther, and must remain in

VOL. III.-Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins;]
full force, unless reversed regularly by a svperior court capableof reversing it.
If this judgm9nt is obligatory, no court can ever look behind it. [203]
Had any offence again st the laws of the United States been in fact committed,
the circuit court for the district of Columbia could take cognizance of it. The
question whether any offence was committed, or was not cothmitted; that is,
whithet the indictment did or did.not showi that an offence had been cowmit-ted, wash question which this court was competent to de ide. Ifitsjudgment
wds erroneous, a point *hich this court does not determine, still it is a judgment; and until reversed, cannot be disregarded. [203)
It is universally understood that the judgments of the courts of the United States,
although -their jurisdiction be not shown on the pleadings, are yet binding on
all the world, and that this apparent want of jurisdittiot) can avail the party
only on a writ of error.. The judgment of the circuit court In. a criminal case
is of itself evidence of its own legality, and requires for its support no inspection of the indictment on which it is rounded. The law trusts that court with
'the-whole subject, and has not confided to this court the power of revising'
its decisions. This court cannot usurp that power by the instrumentality of a
writ of habeas corpu§. The judgment informs us that the commitment is legal,
[207]
- and with that information it is our duty to be satisfied.
.The cases of the United States vs. Hamilton, 3 DalI. Rep. 17; Ex parte Burford,"8 Cranch's Rep. 447-; Ex parte Bollman and Swartwout, 4 Cranch; and
Ex 1a1rte Kearney, 7 Wheat. S9; examined. [207]

THIS case came before the court on a petition for a habeas
-corpus, on the relation of-Tolbias Watkins, setting forth that
at M y termj82g of the circuit court of the district of Co-'
lumbia, in the county of Washingion, certain presentmedits
were -found-against him; upon three of which trials were had,
and verdicts passed against him; upon which judgments were
pronounced, purporting to condemn him to the -payment of
certain,pecuniary fines and costs, and certain terms of im•prisonment ibr the supposed ottences therein, For the nature
and terms of the indictments, and of the convictions and
judgments ihereon, the petition referred to the same. Copies
and.exemplifications of the records of the proceedings were
annexed to the petition.
The petition proceeded to state, that, immediately on the
rekdition of the jpdgments,, and in the pretended pursuance
ana exedution of the same, the petitioner was, on the 14th of
August 1829,-committed. to the common gaol of Washington
county, in which he has since been confined, tnder colourand pretence of the authority, force,.and" effect of the "saia
-ibdictments; that he is well advised by counsel that the. said.
convictions and judgments are illegal atd wholly void .upon

JANUARY TERM f83O.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins..

their faces, and.give no valid authority or warranf whatever
for his commitment and imprisonment; that the indictments
do not, nor do6s any one of them charge or import any offence :at common law whatever, cognizable in the course of
criminal judicature, and especially no offence cognizable or
punishable by the said circuit court; and'that his imprison-.
ment is-wholly unjust, and without any lawful ground, warrant or authority whatever.
The petitioner prays the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus, to be directed to the marshal of the district of Columbia,
in whose custodyas keeper of the gaol of the district, the
petitioner is, commanding him to bring the body of thq petitioner before the court, with thecause of his commitment; and
especially Oommanding him to return with the writ the record of the proceedings upon the inoictments, with the jugments thereupon; and to cemftify whether the petitioner be
not actually imprisoned by the 4upposed authority, and in
virtue of the said judgment.
The first indictment refeired to' in the petition, charged
the petitioner as fourth auditor of the treasury of the United
States, and as such having assigned, to him the keeping of
the accounts of the receipts and expenditures of the'public
moneys of the United States in*regard to the navy department; with having obtained- for his private us6 the sum of
see hundred and fifty dollars, the money of .the United
States, by means of a diaft for that sum on the navy agent
of the United States at New York, which draft ws drawn
by him in the -city of Washington, in favour of C. S. Fowler,
on the navy agent at New York,- aed negotiated in tie city
of Washington on the 16th of January 1"28; the said suin
of money having been byhim representedto .the secretary
of the navy as required by the navy agent for the uses of the
United States, and so represented in a requisition made to
thb navy agent for a warrant on the treasury of the UnitedStatis fbr the- amount of the draft, with other sums included
in the requisition.
The second indictment charged the petitioner with having
received from the navy agent of tie United States at New
York, the sum of three hundred dillars, money of the-United

SUPREME COURT.
fEx Parte Tobias.Wtkins.]

States, by means of fraudulent misrepresentations made to
the navy agent, contaied in-a letter addressed to him on
the 6th of October 1827, in which it was falsely stated, that
the said sum of three'hundred dollars was required for the
use of the United'Stats; and that the sOme wasso obtained
from the navy agerit,'by a draft on him in-favour Of C. 1.
Fowler, by whom the money was paid to thepetitioner, an
his having negotiated the draft.
I The' thiud indictment charged the petitioner with. having
procured to be'drawn ironi.the treasury of the United States
the sum of two thousand dollars, by means of a requisition
from the secretary of the navy - 'a blank requisition .left by
that. officer in his department having, on the representation
of' the petitioner tht'the same was required for the public
service by the navy agent at Boston, ben'filled up for this
purpose; and for-which he drew and negotiated drafts in the
city. of Washington, at different times, in favour of C. J.
Fowler, iedifferent sums amounting to two thousand dbllars,
and approlriated 'the same to his own use.
Messrs.Jones and Coke moved for a rule on the United
States, to-show cause- why a habeas corpus should not issue,
and proposed that the argument should take place on the
motion upon all the points involved in the case. Mr Bdrrien, attorney general, objected to an argutnent on the motion. He stated that he was prepared to go into the argument on the return of the rule, but was not willing to do
so on the motion.
, The 6ounsel for the petitioner observed,-that in Kearney's
case, 7 Wheat. the argument toolk place on the motion; and,
as inthis case the. petition brought up the indictments and
the judgments of the circuit court, the whole matter was
now fully before the court.
Mr Chief Justice Marshall said, that'the, counsel for Ihe
petitioner and, the attorney general might arrange .among
themselves.as they thought proper when the argument hould
come-on,, either on the motion or the return. This not having been done, the rule was' ,warded returnable on the following motion day.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins.]

On the return of the rule, Mr Coxe and Mr Jones for the
petitioner contended, that no offence was- charged in the
indictments which was within, the jurisdiction of the circuit
court for the county of Washington, and therefore allthe.
•proceedings of that court were nullities and void.
1.All proceedings of a court beyond its jurisdiction are
void. Wise vs. Withers, 3 Cranch, 331, 1 Peters's Con-densed Rep. 552. Rose vs. Himely, 4 Cranch, 241, 268,
552. Doe vs. Harden, 1 Paine's Rep. 55, 58, 59.
2. In a case where a court acting beyond its jurisdiction
has committed a party to prison, a habeas corpus is the proper remedy, and affords the means of trying the question.
3 Cranch, 448, 1 Peters's Condensed Rep. 594. Bollman
vs. S wartwout, 4 Cranchi 75. Kearney's case, 7 Wheat. 38.
3. The. writ does not issue of course, but the party must
show that he isimprisoned by a court having no jurisdiction. I Chitty's Crim. Law, 124, 125. 7 Wheat.- 88. A
habeas corpus is a proper remedy for revising the proceedings of a court in a criminal case. I Chitty's Crim. Law,
180.
It was-ergued for the petitioner, that it has been decided
in many cases, that a writ of habeas corpus .may issue so as
tormake its *action equivalent to that of a writ of error.
1 Chit. Crim. Law, 180.
The circuit court is a court of general criminal jurisdiction ii cases .within. the local law, and within the law of
Maryland. What is the effect of the'clause of the act of
congress establishing this court .-It is to give it cognizance
of" all offences ;" but this does not mean that extraordinary
powers are given to make new offences, and to punish all acts
deemed offences. Offences are the violations of known and
established local laws. The statute means offences against
the laws of the United States in their sovereignty, and
against the local laws of the dist~ct:
For.the purposes of this inquiry it is immaterial whether
the circuit court is or is not of limited jurisdiction. However extended its jurisdiction may be, it has defined limits,
and these restrain it.
Suppose the court should entertain jurisdiction of cases

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins.]

certaifily not criminal, would not a decision in such- a case
be a- nullity ? As if on the. face of an' indictment an act
which'is of acivil nature'should be made criminal. The
court is limited to offences committed within its jurisdiction. Should it take-cognizance of an act done in England,
would not.thi.Tcourt interfere q'*
It is admitted that the judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction is conclusive, when the case is-one properly submitted to the operation of that jurisdiction. But it is not sufficient to say that its jurisdiction is-general ; it should also
appear it- had-jurisdiction of the offence charged. Cited
Rose v. Himely, 5 Cranch, 313; Griffith vs. Frazier, 8
Cranch, 9.
It ig asked whether this court will look into any criminal
-.casewhich has p'assed under the -judgment of the' circuit
court. Suppose a sentence imhposed not authorised by law.;
would not this court interfere by its- writ of habeas corpus '.
It is not contended -that every'excess of jurisdiction is
within the principle claimed. There is a difference between
a rule which is reasonable, and that which goes into extravagance. It may not be defined,- but it-can be felt; and this
i.s
a case where this rule can apply. The position that the
decision of an inferior court of the United Ptates in a criminal case cannot be inquired into unless.there is an appellate
jurisdiction in such.cases, goes too far; and -runs into.the
argumentum in absurdum.
In all the cases which have come before this court, in
which- a writ.of habeas corpus has been applied for, the decision has been in favour of the jurisdiction. There has been
enough shown here in this preliminary question to authorise
the-writ, as the 6nly inquiry is, whether the judgment of the
circuit court is conclusive upon all the matters before the
court.
The counsel for the petitioner proceeded to argue at large
'upon authorities that the offences charged in the indictments were not cognizable in the circuit court. As this point
was not noticed in the, opinion of the court, the argument is
omitted. They cited 7 Cranch, 32. I Wheat. 415. 1 Gall.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
rEx Parte Tobias Watkins.]

488. 2 East,. 814. 2 Maule and Selw. 378.
405, 424,430, 410, 416, 427. I.Crandh, 164.

4-Wheat.

The attorney general denied that it was competent for this
court to revise the proceedings of the circuit court-in a
cFiminal case, or to award a habeas corpus to bring into
revision such proceedings.,
No such case was to be found since the organization of the
court; and as writs of error and appeals are expressly limited
tocases which are not criminal, the issuing of such a"writ,
and for such a purpose, would be contrary to law.
He contended, that the case of Bollman vs. Swartwout
was not an authority for the claim of the petitioner. That was
a case of bail, and not a case. in, which the judgment of a
cou~rt had passed. In Kearney's case the writ of habeas
corpus was refused; the petitioner being in confinement for
contempt, which was considered equivalent to a sentence
of the court.
It is now to be decided in the case before the dourt, whether they will, through the means of a habeas corpus, revise
the sentence of an inferior court in a criminal case, so as to
determine whether it had jurisdiction of the offence charged
in ar indictment found in that.court:"
The petition asserti, 1. That no offence is charged in the
indictment cognizable by the law of Maryland.
2. That no offence is charged which is cognizable by the
laws of the United States.
As to the first, if it is competent to this couirt tb.examhine
the point, the whole case of the petitiofjis open, as the circuit court is said to have erred in deciding that the offence
was cognizable by it. The circuit courtof the district of
Columbia has jurisdiction, such as is .possessed by all other
circuit courts of the United States; and it has also general
jurisdiction of offences committed in the-district. In the legitimate exercise, of this jurisdiction to decide what is an
offence, it is said to have exceeded its jurisdiction. By-what
authority can this decision of a court of general, final, criminal jurisdiction, be re-examined here 7 The court below has
decided that .the facts of the case amount to a fraud on the

SUPREME- COURT.
tEx Parte Tobias Watkins.]

government, committed by false pretences. It may be they
have erred in their judgment; but the error cannot be revised
here. They have jurisdiction to decide that the offence was
committed in the district, and they have so decided. The.
power of the-court is, L To'try the offender. 2. To determine what the offence is. 3. To punish after conviction.
These are exclusive and final powers.
There is no power or authority in this court to re-examine
a decision of a circuit court as to its jurisdiction in a criminal case. The proposition that the decisions-of a court
in a case, beyond its jurisdiction are void, although true
in the abstract, is practically false. Such decisions must
stand, unless there is power in another court to reverse
them. The truth of this is maintained in civil as well as
criminal cases.
It must- appear that there is jurisdiction in a superior
court to award a writ of error, or a habeas corpus, which
may bring up the question; not alone that the judgment of
the court was erroneous.
. If this court possesses such powers, it must be derived
from one of three sources: I. From the act of congress
appropriating and regulating the powers of this-court. No
powers are given by the act to revise the proceedings of the
circuit court in criminal cases. 2. From the powers of this
court as the supreme court, to exercise supervision over all
inferior courts. In the case of Bollman vs. Swartwout, the
court have said they have no such powers. 3. Can those
powers be derived from the power to issue writs of habeas
corpus, and by this to revise the judgments of inferior judicatures exercising criminal jurisdiction .
Congress have carefully guarded against this: they have
given appellate powers in civil, admiralty-and maritime
cases, and have refused them in criminal cases. It cannot be'
supposed that when thus refused, they can be exerted under
the writ of habeas corpus, which this court is authorised to
issue. There are many cases for the employment of this
writ, without claiming for it the rights asserted to belong
to it by the-counsel for the petitioner.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins.]

Mr Chief Justice MAnSHiALL delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to bring the
body of Tobias Watkins before this court, for the purpose of
inquiring into the legality of his confinement in gaol. The
petition states that he is detained in prison by virtue of a
judgment.of the circuit. court of the United States, for the
county .ofWashington, in the district of Columbia, rendered
in a criminal prosecution carried on against him in that
caurt. A copy of the indictment and judgment .is annexed
to the petition, and the motion is founded on the allegation
that the indictment charges no offence for which the prisoner
was punishable in that court, or ;f which that court could
take Pognizance ; and consequently that the pro'ceedings are
corarn nonjudice, and totally void. This .application is made to a court which has no jurisdiction in criminal cases (3 Cranch, 169 ;) which coula not revise
this judgment; could not reverse or affirm it, were the record
brought up directly by writ of error. The power, however, to
award writs of habeas corpus is conferred expressly on this
court by the fourteenth section of the judicial act, and las
been repeatedly exercised. No doubt exists respecting" the
power; the .question is, whether this be a case in which it
ought to be exercised. The cause of imprisonment is shown
as fully by the petitioner as it could appear on the return
of the writ; consequently the writ ought not to'be awarded,
if the court is satisfied that the prisonei would be remanded
to prison.
No law of the United States prescribes the cases in which
this great writ shall be issued, nor the power of the court
over.the party brought up by it. The term is used in the
constitution, as one which was well understood; and the
judicial act authorises this court, and all the courts of the
United States, and the judges thereof, to issue the writ "for
the purpose of inquiring into the cause of commitment."
This general reference to a power. which we are required to
exercise, withiout any precise definition of that power, imposes on us the necessity of making some inquiries into its use,
VoL. III.- Z A

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins.]

according to'that law which is in a considerable degree incorporated into our own. The writ of habeas corpus is.a
high prerogative writ, known to the .common law, the great
object of which is the liberation of those who may be imprisoned without sufficient cause. It is in the nature of a writ
of error, to examine, the legality of the commitment. The
English judges, being originally under the influence of the
crown, neglected" to issue this writ where the government
entertained suspicions which could not be sustained by evidence;-and the writ when.issued was sometimes disregarded
or evaded,'and great individual oppression was suffered in
consequence of delays in bringing prisoners to trial. To remedy-this evil the celebrated habeascorpus act of the q1st of
Charles II. was enacted, for the purpose of securing the benefits for which the writ was given. This statute may be referred to as describing the cases in which relief is, in England,
afforded by this writ to a person detained in custody. It
enforces the common law. This statute excepts from those
who are entitled to its benefit, persons committed for felory
or tredson plainly expressed in the warrant, as well as persons convicted or in execution.
The exception of persons convicted applies particularly
to the application now under consideration. The petitioner
isdetained in prison by virtue of the judgment of a court,
which court possesses general and final jurisdiction in criminal cases. Can this judgment be re-examined upon a writ
of habeas corpus .!
This' writ is, as has been said, in.the 'nature of a writ of
error which brings up the body of the prisoner with the'
cause of comrmitment. The court can undoubtedly inquire
into the sufficiency of that cause; but if it be the judgment
of a court of comietent jurisdiction, es 'ecially a judgment
wiihdrawn by law from the revision of this court, is not that
judgment in itself sufficient cause . Can the court, upon
this writ, look beyond the judgment, and re-examine the
charges on which it was rendered. A judgment, in its nature, concludes the subjec on which it is rendered, and
pronounces the law of the case. ,The judgment of a court
of record whose jurisdiction is final, is as conclusive, on all

JANUARY TERM 1830.

203

[Ex Padte Tobias Watkins.]

the world as the judgment of this court would be. - It-is as
conclusive on this court as itis on other courts. It puts an
end to inquiry concerning the fact, by deciding it.
-The counsel for the prisoner admit the application of
these principles to a case in which the indictment alleges a
crime cognizable in the court by which the judgment was pronounced; but they deny their application to a case in which
the indictment charges an offence not punishable criminally
according to the law of-the land. But with what propriety
can this coirt look into the indictment . We have no power
to examine the proceedings on .a writ of error, and it would
be strange, if, under colour of a writ to liberate an individual
from unlawful imprisonment, we could substantially reverse
a judgment which the law has placed beyond our control..
An imprisonment under a judgment cannot be unlawful, un-.
less that judgment be an absolute. nullity ; and it is not a
nullity if the tourt has general jurisdictiQn of the subjwct,
although- it should be erroneous. The circuit court for the
district of Columbia is a court of record, having general jurisdiction over criminal cases. An offence cognizable in any
court, is cognizable in that court. If the offenme be punish
able by law, that court is competent to inflict the punishment. The .judgment of such a tribunal has all the obligation which the judgment of any tribunal can have. To
determine whether the offence charged in the indictment be
legally punishable, or not is among .the most unquestionable
of its powers and duties. The decision of this question is
the exercise of jurisdiction, whether the judgment be for 4r
against the prisoner. The judgment is equally bindfng in
the one case and-in the other ; and must rethain in full force
uiless- reveised regularly by. a superior court capable of
reversing it.
If this judgment be obligatory, no court can look behind
it. If it be a nullity, the officer who obeys it Is guilty of
false imprisonment. Would the counsel for the prisoner
attempt to maintain this position .
QGestions which7 we think analogous to this have.been .frequerrtly decided in this court. Kempls Lessee vs. Kennedy
et al.5 Cranch, t.73, was a writ oferrof to a judgment in

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins.]

ejectment, rendered against her in the circuit court of the
United States for the district of New Jersey. An inquisition taken under the confiscating acts of New Jersey, had
been found against her, on which a judgment of condemnation had been rendered by the inferior court of common
pleas for the county of Hunterdon. The land had been sold
under this judgment of condemnation, and this ejectment
was brought against the purchaser. The title of the plaintiff being resisted under those proceedings, his counsel prayed the court to instruct the jury that thpy ought to find a
verdict for him. The court refused the prayer, and did instruct the jury to find for the defendants. An exception was
taken to this direction, and the cause krought before this
court by writ of error. On the argument the counsel for
the plaintiff made two points. 1. That the proceedings were
erroneous. 2. .That the judgment was an absolute nullity.
He contended that the individual against whom the inquest
was fbund, was not comprehended within the confiscating
acts of New Jersey. Consequently, the justice who took
the inquisition had no- jurisdiction as regarded her. He
contended also that the inquisition was entirely insufficient
to show that Grace Kemp, whose land had been condemned,
wa3.an offender under those acts. Hethen insisted that the
tribunal erected to execute these laws, was an inferior tribunal, proceeding by force of particular statutes out of the
course of the common law; it w.- a jurisdiction limited by
the statute, both as to the nature of the offence, and the
description of persois over whon it should have cogni.ance.
Eiery thing ought to have b~en stated in the proceedings
which was necessary to' give the court jurisdiction, and to
justify the judgment of forfeiture. If the jurisdiction does
not appear upon the face of the proceedings, the presumption of law is, that the court had not jurisdiction, and the
cause was coram non judict; in which case no valid judgment could be rendered.
The court said, that however clear it might be in favour
of the plaintiff on the first point,.it would avail him nothing
unless he succeeded on the second.
The court admitted the law respecting the proceedings

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins.]

of inferior courts in the sense in which'that term was used
in the English books; and asked, "was the court in which
this judgment was rendered an inferior court in that sense
of the term!
"All courts from which an appeal lies, are inferior courts.
in relation to the appellate courts, before which their judgment may be carried; but they are not therefore inferior
courts in the technical sense of those words. They apply to
courts of special and limited jurisdiction, which are erected
on such principles that their judgments taken alone are en-tirely disregarded, and the proceedings must show their
jurisdiction. The courts of the United States are all of limited jurisdiction, and-their proceedings are erroneous if the
jurisdiction be not shown upon them. Judgments rendered
in such cases may certainly he reversed; but this court is
not prepared to say that they are absolute nullities, which
may be totally disregarded."
The court then proceeded to review the powers of the
courts of common pleas in New Jersey. They were courts
of record, possessing general jurisdiction in civil cases, with
the exception of suits for real property. In treason, their
jurisdiction was over all who could commit the offence..
After reviewing the several acts of confiscation, the court
said, that they could 'iot be fairly construed to convert the
courts of coinmon pleas into courts of limited jurisdiction.
They remained the only courts capable of trying the offences
defribed by the laws.
In the particular case of Grace Kemp, the court said, that
"the court of common pleas was- constituted according to
law; and if an offence had been in fact committed, the accused was amenable to its jurisdiction, so far as respected
her property in the state of New Jersey.' The question whether this offence was or was not committed, that is, whetherthe inquest, which is substituted for a verdict on an indictment, *did or did not show that the offence had been committed, was a question- which the court 'was competent to
decide. The judgment it gave was erroneous; but it is a
judgment, and, -until reversed, cannot be disregarded."

206

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkins.]

Thiscase has been cited at some length, because'it is
thought to be decisive of that now under consideration.
Had any offence against the laws of the United States
been in fact committed, the circuit court for 4he district of
Columbia could take cognizance of it. The question whether any offence was, or-was not committed, that is, whether
the indictment did or did not shoi that an offence had been
committed, was a question which that court was competent
to decide. If its judgment was erroneous, a point which this
codirt does not determine, still it is a judgment, and, until reversed, cannot be disregarded.
In Skillern's Executors vs. May's Eiecutors, 6 Cranch,
267, a decree pronounced by the circuit court for the district of Kentucky had 'been reversed, and the cause was iemanded to that court, that an equal partition of the land in
controversy might be made between the parties. When the
cause again came on before the court below, it was discovered that it was not within the jurisdiction of the court; whereupon the judges were divided in opinion, whether they ought
to execute the mandate, and their division was certified to
this court. This court certifidd, that the circuit court is
bound to execute its mandate, "although the jurisdiction
9f the court be not alleged in the pleadings."- The decree
having been pronounced, although in a case in which it was
erroneous for want of the averment of jurisdiction, was nevertheless obligatory as a decree.
The case of Williams et al. vs. Armroyd et al. 7 Cranch,
423, was an appeal from a sentence of the circuit couit for
the district of Pennsylvania, dismissing a libel which had
been filed for certain goods which had been captured and
c6ndemned under the Milan decree. - They were sold by order of the governor of the island into which the prize had
been carried, and the prdsent possessor, claimed under the
purchaser. It was contended, that the Milan decree was in
violation of the law of nations, and that a condemnation professedly under that decree could not change the right of
property. This court affirmed the sentence of the circuit
court, restoring the property to the claimant, and said "that

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ex Parte Tobias Watkils.]

the sentence is avowedly made under a decree subversive of
the law of nations, will not help the appellant's case in a
court which cannot revise, correct, or even examine that
sentence.- If an erroneous judgment binds the property on
which it acts, it will not bind that.property the less, becauseits error is apparent. Of that error, advantage can be taken
only in a court which is capable -ofcorrecting it."
The courLfet the less difliculty in declaring the edict
under which the condemnation had been made to be "a
direct and flagrant violation .of national law," because the
declaration had already been made by the legislature of the
union. But the sentence of a court under it was sulmitted
to, as being of complete 'obligation.
The cases are numerous, which decide that the judgments
of a court of record having general jurisdiction of the sub,ject, although erroneous, are binding until reversed. It is
universally understood that the judgments of the courts of
the United .States. although their jurisdiction be not shown
in the. pleadings, are yet binding on all the world; and that
this apparent want of jurisd iction can avail the party only on
a writ of error. This acknowledged principle seems to-us
to settle the question now before the court.. The judgment
of the circuit court in a criminal-case is of itself evidence of
its own legality; and -requires for its support no inspection of
the indictments on which it is founded. The law trusts that
court with'the whole, subject, and has not confided to this
court the power of revising its decisions: We cannot usurp
th4t power by the instrumentality of the writ of habeas corpus. The judgment informs us-that the commitment-is legal,.
and with that information it is our duty to -be satisfied.
The counsel for the petitioner contend, that writs of habeas
corpus have been awarded and prisoners liberated in cases
similar to this.
In the United States vs. Hamilton, 3 Dal]. 17- the prisoner
was committed upon the warrant of the district judge of
Pennsylvania, charging him with high treason. -He was,,after much deliberation, admitted to bail. This was a proceeding contemplated by the thirty-third section of the judicial act, which declares that in cases where the punishment

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex Paite Tobias Watkins.]

may be death, bail shall not be admitted but by the supreme
or a circuit court, or by a justice of the supreme court, or
a judge of the district court.
In the case Ex parte Burford, 3 Cranch, 447, the prisoner
was committed originally by .the warrant of several justices
6f the peace for the county of Alexandria. He was brought
by a writ of habeas corpus before the circuit court,, by
which court he was remanded to gaol, there to remain until
he should enter into recognizance for his good behaviour for
one year. He was again brought beforb the supreme court
on a writ of habeas corpus. The judges were unanimously of
opinion that the warrant of commitment was illegal, for want
Qf statingsome good cause certain supported by oath, The
court added that, "if the circuit court had proceeded, de
novo, perhaps it might have made a difference; but this
court is of opinion that that court has gone only on the proceedings before the justices. It has gone so far as to correct
two of the errors committed, but the rest remain." The prisoner was discharged.
In the case of Bollman vs. Swartwout, the prisoners were
committed by order of the circuit court, on -the charge of
treason. The habeas corpus was awarded in this case on
the same principle on which 'it was awarded in the case of
3 Dali. 17. The prisoners were discharged, because the
aharge of treason did not appear to have been committed.
In no one of these cases was the prisoner confined under the
judgment of a court.
The case Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 39, was a commit-ment by order of the circuitcourt for the district of Columbia, for a contempt. The prisoner was remanded to prison.
*The court, after noticing its want of power to revise the
judgment of the circuit court in any case where a party had
been convicted of a -public offence, asked, "if then this
court cannot directly revise a judgment of -the circuit court
in a criminal case, what.reason is there to suppose that'it
was intended to vest it with.the authority to do it indirectly."
The. case Ex parte Kearney bears .a near resemblance to
that under consideration.
The counsel for the prisoner rely, mainly, on the case of

JANUARY TERM .1830.

. 209

[Ex Pade Tobias Watkins.]

Wise *vs.Withers, 3 Cranch, 330. This was. an action of
trespass vi et armis, for entering the plaintiff's house and
taking away his goods. The defendant justified as' collector of the militia fines. The plaintiff replied that he *was
not subject to militia duty, and on demurrer this replication
was held ill. This court reversed the judgment of the circuit court, because a court martial had no jurisdiction over
a person not belonging to the militia, and its sentence in
such a case being coram non judice, furnishes no protection to the officer who executes it.
This-decision proves only that a court martial was considered as one of those inierior courts of limited jurisdiction,
whose judgments may be questioned collaterally.- They
are not placed on the same high ground with the judgments
of a court of reicord. The declaration, that this judgment
against a person to whom the jurisdiction of the court could
not extend, is a- nullity.; is no authority for inquiring into
the judgments of a court of general criminal jurisdiction,
and regarding them as nullities, if, in-o"u opinion, the court
has misconstrued.the law, and has pronounced an offeuce
to be punishable criminally, which, as we may think, is not so.
Without looking into the indijctments under which the
prosecution against the -petitioner was conduc-d, we are
unanimously of opinion that the judgment of a court of general criminal jurisdiction justifies his imprisonment, and that
the. writ of habeas corpus ought not to be awarded..

On consideration of the rule granted in this case, on a
prior day of this term, to wit, on Tuegday the 26th of January of the present term of this court, and of the arguments
thereupon had;. it is considered, ordered and adjuidged by
this court, that the said rule be, and the same is hereby discharged, and that'the prayer of the petitioner for a writ of
,habeas corpus be, and the same is hereby refused.

VOL. III.-.2 B

