OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

of the officer to. obey the directions and commands of the
writ."
We are of opinion that the courts below properly interpreted the finding of the referee, and that the execution
creditors secured valid prior liens upon the bankrupt's
property. The decree is
Affirmed.

GARRETT, ADMINISTRATOR OF LEWIS v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 81.. Submitted November 12, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.
The Employers' Liability Act of 1908, prior to the amendment of
April 5, 1910, declared two distinct and independent liabilities resting
upon the common foundation of a wrongful injury:
1. Liability to the injured employ6 for which he alone could recover;
2. In case of death, liability to his personal representative for
the benefit of the surviving widow or husband and children, and if
none, then of the parents, but only fo" pecuniary loss and damage
resulting to them by reason of the death.
The declaration must contain an averment substantially of every fact
necessary to be proved to sustain plaintiff's right of recovery in order
to let in the proof; and every issue must be founded upon a certain
point, so that parties may come preipared with their evidence and
not be taken by surprise, and so that the jury may not be misled by
introduction of various matters.
While the same precision is not required as in pleadings at law, a convenient degree of certainty must be adopted as to bills in equity so as
to maintain plaintiff's case.
When proofs go to matters not set up in the bill, the. court cannot act
upon them as a ground for decision. They are not put in contestation by the pleadings.

GARRETT v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 309
235 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Common experience may be taken as a guide in teaching that financial
damage is not always a necessary consequence to the parent as the
result of the death of an adult son; and if such damage is not pleaded.
proof cannot be offered in regard thereto.
Where plaintiff refused to amend after permission so as to allege pecuniary damage due to the death of his son, the court below committed no error in excluding evidence as to such damage and dismissing the complaint, and the judgment should be affirmed and
the case will not be remanded for new trial on the declaration being amended.
197 Fed. Rep. 715, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the
Employers' Liability Act of 1908, and the right of parents
to recover for death of an adult son, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. John A. Pitts and Mr. H. N. Leech for plaintiff in
error:
The Employers' Liability Act should be construed in
the light of its own language, and the purpose of its enactment. Congress did not have in ibind the changing of
any common-law principle as the survival of an action
for personal injuries. Its purpose was to exercise its
legislative power under the commerce clause of the
Constitution over the relation of employer and employ6
in interstate commerce. It is the same character of
legislation as the Safety Appliance Acts,-the primary and
controlling purpose of such legislation being to prevent
the loss of life and'the infliction of injuries, and its secondary purpose by means of such prevention, to bring about
a better and more efficient railroad service to the public.
The Safety Appliance Act has for its sanction or means
of enforcement, both fines and damages. That statute
gives damages. for a failure to have the ,required equipment, and does not, in words, give an action for such
failure. For such failure it is held that damages may
be had for death or injury thereby occasioned. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

personal representative suing for such failure, could recover damages for the mental and physical suffering, etc.,
for which the deceased would have recovered, and the.
value of the life lost. The act has for its sanction or means
of enforcement the recovery of damages.
"Damages" is a generic term, and there is nothing in
the wording. of the statute that restricts its meaning to the
recovery of anything short of the entire results occasioned
by the negligent act or conduct for which a liability was
created under. the first section of the act.
In support of these contentions see: Am. R. R. Co. v.
Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145; A. S. & W. Co. v. Griffin, 42
S. W. Rep. 1034; C. & 0. R. R. Co. v. Haekins, 174 Fed.
Rep. 602; Emery v. Philadelphia, 208 Pa. St. 492; Fulgham v. M. & V. R. R. Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 660; G. C. & C.
R. R. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173; Heahl v. San Francisco,
42 California, 215; Johnson v..So. Pac. Co., 196 U. S. 1:
M. C. R. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; Matthews v.
Warner, 22 Am. Rep. 399; Meyer v. San Francisco, 42
California, 215; Mason v. So. Ry. Co., 58 So. Car. 70;
Penna. R. R. v. McClosky, 23 Pa. St. 526; Railroad Co. v.
Baron, 5 Wallace, 90; Rhodes v. C. & A. R. R., 227 Illinois,
328; Schlemmer v. RailroadCo., 205 U. S.1; Severns v. Nor.
Ry. Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 407; Trimmer v. Railroad Co., 84 So.
Car. 203; Walsh v. N. Y. & C. R. R., 173 Fed. Rep. 495.
Mr. John B. Keeble for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This action for damages-'under the Employers' Liability
Act, approved April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, was
originally brought in the state court March 31, 1910. It
was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States,
Middle District.of Tennessee, and tried there in May, 1911.
The declaration contains three counts, each of which

GARRETT v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 311
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

alleges that plaintiff is the administrator of T. W. Lewis,
Jr., by appointment of the County Court, Stewart County,
Tennessee; defendant is a Kentucky railroad corporation
engaged in interstate commerce; in September, 1909, the
deceased was employed as a brakeman on one of its
freight trains moving in such commerce; through negligence of its operatives and servants a collision occurred;
in an effort to save his life he was caught under the engine
and held there for six hours or more, suffering intense
agony and pain, followed shortly by death; he was twentyfour years of age, strong, vigorous, with fine business
qualifications and earning capacity. The first and second
counts allege that the deceased left surviving T. W. Lewis,
his father, and Mrs. T. W. Lewis, his mother, and that
"plaintiff, as administrator of the said intestate, sues the
defendant, for the benefit of his parents, in the sum of
fifty thousand dollars damages." The third count alleges
the survival of not only father and mother but also
brothers and sisters (the names of the latter not being
given), and that "plaintiff, as administrator of the said
decedent, sues the defendant in the sum of fifty thousand
dollars damages."
The trial judge, having definitely offered the plaintiff
an opportunity to amend his declaration, which was declined, excluded all evidence relating to the menfal and
physical suffering of the deceased and also all tending to
.show pecuniary loss sustained by the parents; and then
peremptorily instructed the jury to return a verdict for
defendant. The United States Circuit Court of Appeals
tendered a further opportunity to amend and when this
was rejected affirmed the judgment of the trial court
(197 Fed. Rep. 715). The cause is here upon writ of error.
The questions presented are: First, whether, under the
Employers' Liability Act of 1908 (before amendment of
April 5, 1910), the administrator of one who died of painful injuries suffered while employed in interstate commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

by a railroad engaging therein can recover damages for the
benefit of the estate (third count); and, Second, whether,
if such administrator sue for the benefit of the employ6's
parents-there being no surviving widow or husband or
child, it is necessary to allege facts or circumstances
tending to show that as a result of the death they suffered
pecuniary loss (first and second counts).
The nature of the rights and responsibilities arising out
of this Act have been discussed and determined in four
opinions announced by this court since the instant cause
was decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Michigan
Central Railroad v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; American
Railroad of Porto Rico v. Didricksen, 227 U. S. 145;
Gulf, Colorado &c. Ry. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173;
North Carolina Railroad v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248. It is
now definitely settled that the act declared two distinct
and independent liabilities resting upon the common
foundation of a wrongful injury: (1) liability to the injured employ6 for which he alone can recover; and (2), in
case of death, liability to his personal representative
"for the benefit of the surviving widow or husband and
children," and if none then of the parents, which extends
only to the pecuniary loss and damage resulting to them
by reason of the death.
The *third count of the declaration under consideration
states no cause of action. The employ6's right to recover
for injuries did not survive himn.
Where, any fact is necessary to be proved in order to sustain the plaintiff's right of recovery the declaration must
contain an averment substantially of such fact in order
to let in the proof. Every issue must be founded upon
some certain point so that the parties may come prepared
with their evidence and not be taken by surprise and the
jury may not be misled by the introduction of various
matters. Bank of the United States v. Smith, 11 Wheat.
171, 174; Minor v. Mechanics' Bank, 1 Pet. 46, 67; De

GARRETT . LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 313
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Luca v. Hughes, 96 Fed. Rep. 923, 925; Rose v. Perry,
8 Yerg. 156; Citizens' St. R. R. v. Burke, 98 Tennessee,
650; 1 Chitty on Pleading, *270. Although the same
precision of statement is not required as in pleadings at
law, nevertheless it is held to be absolutely necessary
that in bills of equity such a convenient degree of certainty should be adopted as may serve to give the defendant full information of the case which he is called upon to
answer. Every bill must contain in itself sufficient matters of fact, per se, to maintain the plaintiff's case; and if
the proofs go to matters not set up therein, the court cannot judicially act upon them as a ground for decision, for
the pleadings do not put them in contestation. Harrison
v. Nixon, 9 Pet. 483, 503; Daniell's Ch. P1. & Pr. *368.
The plaintiff's declaration contains no positive averment of pecuniary loss to the parents for whose benefit
the suit was instituted. Nor does it set out facts or circumstances adequate to apprise the defendant with reasonable particularity that such loss in fact was suffered.
Common experience teaches that financial damage to a
parent by no means follows as a necessary consequence
upon the death of an adult son. The plaintiff expressly
declined in both courts below so to amend his declaration
as to allege pecuniary loss to the parents; and judgment
properly went against him.
The request is now made that in view of all the circumstances-especially the former undetermined meaning
of the statute, this court remand the cause for a new trial
upon the declaration being so amended as to include the
essential allegation. But we do not think such action
would be proper. The courts below committed no error
of which just complaint can be made here; and the rights
of the defendant must be given effect, notwithstanding
the unusual difficulties and uncertainties with which
counsel for the plaintiff found himself confronted.
Judgment affirmed.

