OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

The only doubt open in the present position of the case
is whether the ground upon which we hold the contract
unenforceable is not a matter of common law, which we
may think that the Kansas courts ought to apply but
which is not open to review here. The case at first sight
seems like those in which a State decides to enforce or
not to enforce a domestic contract notwithstanding or
because of its tendency to cause a breach of the law of
some other State. Graves v. Johnson, 179 Massachusetts,
53, 156 Massachusetts, 211. But the policy involved here
is the policy of the United States. It is not a matter that
the States can regard or disregard at their will. There can
be no question that the United States can make its prohibitions binding upon others than Indians to the extent
necessary effectively to carry its policy out, and therefore,
as on the grounds that we have indicated the contract
contravenes the policy of the law, there is no reason why
the law should not be read, if necessary, as broad enough
to embrace it in terms.
Judgment reversed.

MAGRUDER v. DRURY AND MADDOX,
TRUSTEES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 17.

Argued October 27, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

On appeals from the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
taken under the statutes in force before the adoption of the Judicial
Code, this court reviews only the decree of that court, and objections in the lower courts not brought forward in the Court of Appeals
cannot be considered here.
On an appeal from the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia

MAGRUDER v. DRURY.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

alleged errors not of a fundamental or jurisdictional character which
were not presented to that court for consideration or which were
waived expressly or by implication cannot be regarded as before this
court.
An allowance of commissions to trustees of an estate in the District of
Columbia made by the auditor and affirmed by both of the courts
of the District will not be disturbed by this court. Barney v. Saunders, 16 How. 535.
The decree of the court which has acquired jurisdiction of an estate and
settled an account cannot be collaterally attacked; and so held in a
case where the will was probated in Massachusetts and the executors
accounted but turned over the assets to trustees appointed in the
District of Columbia after a finding that testator was not a resident
of Massachusetts.
Where an account has been verified by oath and duly presented to,
examined by, and passed on, by the court, the decree cannot be regarded as one based only on consent and attacked collaterally in the
courts of another jurisdiction under the rule that a trustee's consent
cannot work to the prejudice of the beneficiaries.
A trustee can make no profit out of his trust, and even though the estate
is not a loser, and the commissions no more than the services are
worth, a trustee may not participate in commissions of his own firm
on transactions with the estate.
37 App. D. C. 519, affirmed in part and reversed in part.
THE facts, which involve the rights and duties of trustees
of an estate, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Nathaniel Wilson for appellants:
The trustees' failure to account fully in this cause, and
the futility of their attempt to diminish their accountability by obtaining the Massachusetts probate decree of
April 25, 1899, was not cured by acquiescence.
The trustees are accountable for diminishing the estate.
The allowance of the probate account concluded nothing except the executors' discharge in Massachusetts.
The failure to account is important; the transactions
were numerous.
The trustees failed to account in this cause for the
specific fund of $18,800, which they withdrew from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellees.

235 U. S.

trust funds, and then procured to be allowed to the executors by the Massachusetts probate decree of April 25, 1899.
The trustees are accountable for the profits realized by
Mr. Drury from sales of notes to the trust estate.
The appellees seek to separate the profits from the dealings with the trust estate.
It is not clear that the trust estate lost nothing.
The performance of the trust imposed upon the trustees
by the decree of their appointment is not completed, because the "Eliza C. Magruder trust" remains unexecuted,
and the trust property remains in the possession of the
trustees.
The allowance of compensation to the trustees was erroneous.
The services were not of a character to merit the amount
allowed.
The proportion or percentage of compensation was arbitrary and not based upon any evidence.
The trustees are entitled to no compensation whatever
because of the maladministration of the trust.
In support of these contentions, see Barney v. Saunders,
16 How. 535; Bay State Gas Co. v. Rogers, 147 Fed. Rep.
557; Blake v. Pegram, 109 Massachusetts, 541; Findly v.
Pertz, 66 Fed. Rep. 427; Dallingerv. Richardson, 176 Massachusetts, 77; Jackson v. Reynolds, 39 N. J. Eq. 313;
Jarrett v. Johnson, 216 Illinois, 212; Mallory v. Clark, 9
Abb. Pr. R. (N. Y.) 358; Mallery v. Quinn, 88 Maryland,
38; Matthews v. Murchison, 17 Fed. Rep. 760; Michoud v.
Girod, 4 How. 503; Miller v. Holcombe's Ex., 9 Grat. (Va.)
665; Pence v. Langdon, 99 U. S. 578; Plumb v. Bateman,
2 App. D. C. 156; United States v. Carter, 217 U. S. 286;
White v. Sherman, 168 Illinois, 589.
Mr. J. J. Darlington for appellees:
The Massachusetts order, allowing executors' accounts
and compensation, is not open to collateral attack.

MAGRUDER v. DRURY.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

The executors' compensation, as claimed and stated,
was proper.
The Massachusetts decree was properly treated as conclusive here.
The auditor's refusal to reopen the executors' accounts
in Massachusetts or formeraudits in the District of Columbia, was proper.
The allowance of five per cent on principal and ten per
cent on increase was proper.
No question of alleged maladministration, as ground for
denial of all compensation, is in the record or raised in the
court below. The record shows that one of the trustees
was more concerned for interests of a friend than for those
of his cestui que trust. There was no combination by the
trustees and the guardian to control and use the trust
estate. There was no diminution of the estate by the
trustees.
In support of these contentions, see Abbott v. Bradstreet,
85 Massachusetts (3 Allen), 587; Barney v. Saunders, 16
How. 535, 541, 542; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 171; Carneal v.
Banks, 10 Wheat. 181; Commonwealth v. Cain, 80 Kentucky, 318; Connor v. Ogle, 4 Md. Ch. 425, 448, 449; Courtneyv. Pradt, 135 Fed. Rep. 218; S. C., 160 Fed. Rep. 561;
Dallinger v. Richardson, 176 Massachqsetts, 81; Dexter v.
Arnold, 2 Sum. 108; Dunn v. Railroad Co., 32 Fed. Rep.
185; Foster v. Goddard, 1 Black, 518; Green v. Bishop, 1
Cliff. 186, 191; Goodrich v. Thompson, 4 Day, 215; Higgens
v. Rider, 77 Illinois, 363; Iverson v. Loberg, 26 Illinois, 180;
Jennison v. Hapgood, 7 Pick. 1; Jones v. Herbert, 2 D. C.
App. 485, 496; Lewis v. Parrish, 115 Fed. Rep. 285;
Magruder v. Drury, 37 D. C. App. 519, 537; Paine v.
Stone, 10 Pick. 75; Reynolds v. Jackson, 31 N. J. Eq. 515;
Richardson v. Van Auken, 5 D. C. App. 209; Railroad Co.
v. Gordon, 151 U. S. 285, 290; State v. Cheston, 51 Maryland, 377; State v. Roland, 23 Missouri, 95; Seegar v.
State, 6 H. & J. 165, 166; Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359,

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

366; Thompson v. Maxwell, 95 U. S. 391, 398; U. S. Trust
Co. v. National Savings Co., 37 App. D. C. 296, 299;
Vaughan v. Northup, 15 Pet. 1; Walsh v. Walsh, 116 Massachusetts, 377; Whitney v. Everard, 42 N. J. Eq. 640;
Abert's Compilation, p. 29, ยง 125.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
William A. Richardson, for some years before his death
Chief Justice of the Court of Claims of the United States,
died at Washington, D. C., October 19, 1896. By his last
will and testament, dated August 9, 1895, he described
himself as "Chief Justice of the Court of Claims at Washington, a citizen and inhabitant of Cambridge, in the
County of Middlesex and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and having property in said County." By his will
he appointed his brother George F. Richardson, of Lowell,
Massachusetts, and Samuel A. Drury, of Washington,
D. C., as executors and trustees. The will was probated
in the Probate Court of Middlesex County, Massachusetts,
on October 28, 1896. It appears in the record that the
deceased had a little real estate in Massachusetts, but the
main portion of his estate was, and always had been, in
the City of Washington. The probate of the will in Massachusetts. seems to have been in deference to the expression in the will as to his place of residence. Subsequently,
and upon certain proceedings being instituted to enforce
taxation in Massachusetts of the estate in the hands of the
executors, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
held that the actual residence of Mr. Richardson could be
inquired into in that proceeding, and upon the facts shown
it was in the District of Columbia. Dallinger v. Richardson, 176 Massachusetts, 77. That case grew out of the
imposition of personal taxes amounting to seven thousand
five hundred dollars annually on the assets of the estate.
As this would have nearly exhausted the income of the

MAGRUDER v. DRURY.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

estate and cut off the support of the beneficiaries under the
will, a bill for injunction was filed in this case in the Supreme Court of the District by the father in behalf of the
present appellants, who were the beneficiaries under the
will. An amended bill was subsequently filed, having for
its object an injunction against the executors from paying
out of the estate any taxes in the State of Massachusetts,
it being stated that, notwithstanding the recitals of the
will, William A. Richardson's place of residence and last
domicile was in the District of Columbia, where the assets
and personal securities of the estate were in the keeping of
Samuel A. Drury, also a resident of the District of Columbia. In addition to the injunction, the bill prayed an account of the property of the estate which had come into
the hands of the executors under the will, and that they
might be required to file an account from time to time.
Mr. George F. Richardson, one of the executors, being a
resident of the State of Massachusetts, and declining to
submit to the local jurisdiction, the amended bill' was filed
against Samuel A. Drury alone. The answer of Drury
stated that he had the custody and control of the assets
and personal securities, and expressed his willingness to
account in the court or in any other jurisdiction in that
behalf for the moneys received by him as executor and
trustee. Such proceedings were had that, on April 1, 1899,
a decree was made continuing the restraining order theretofore made in the case, and finding that the late William
A. Richardson was last domiciled in the District of Columbia, where the beneficiaries lived, and it was ordered and
decreed that Samuel A. Drury and Samuel Maddox, both
of the District of Columbia, be appointed trustees to perform the trusts created in the will, and, they were "authorized and empowered to receive from the executors named
in said will all the property whereof the deceased died
seized and possessed, provided, nevertheless, that the said
Samuel A. Drury and Samuel Maddox shall first give

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

separate bonds in the penal sum of Twenty-five thousand
dollars, each, with one or more securities to be approved
by this Court, conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties as such trustees." Some five reports were
made by the auditor to whom the matter was referred to
take accounts, and various proceedings were had, which
are fully set out in the opinion of the Court of Appeals in
this case (37 D. C. App. 519). It is enough for our purposes to state that the proceedings resulted in an order of
reference to the auditor to state the account of the trustees.
This order was made on January 17, 1909. The auditor
named having died, a further order of reference was made
to another auditor to "state the final account of the
trustees and the distribution of the trust estate in their
hands, and report such commission or compensation to
the trustees as may be appropriate and proper." To this
report certain exceptions were filed by the present appellarits. Upon final hearing, a decree was entered by which
these exceptions were overruled, and the Court of Appeals
sustained this action of the Supreme Court (37 D. C.
App. supra). Hence this appeal.
The argument has taken a wide range, and questions
are discussed which are not embraced in the exceptions
filed to the auditor's report which was the basis of action
in the courts below, and in the Court of Appeals that
court dealt with only three exceptions, stating that a
number of exceptions were entered to the report, and
that those relied upon in that court related to the allowance of a five per cent. commissiQn on principal and ten
per cent. on income; to the $18,800 item allowed by the
Massachusetts court; and to alleged profits made by the
trustees in the purchase of notes for reinvestment.
Under the statute in force at the time of this appeal,
owing to the amount involved, the decision of the Court
of Appeals might be brought by appeal in review before
this court. This court therefore sits as an appellate court

MAGRUDER v. DRURY.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of reviewing the decree of the Court of
Appeals, and that is the extent of the jurisdiction here.
Original objections to the auditor's report and the decree
of the Supreme Court, not brought forward in the Court
of Appeals, cannot be made here. Alleged errors not of a
fundamental or jurisdictional character, which were not
presented to the appellate court for consideration, and
which were waived, either expressly or by implication,
will not be regarded as before this court. Montana Railway Co. v. Warren, 137 U. S. 348, 351; Gila Valley Railway Co. v. Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 98; Grant Bros. v. United
States, 232 U. S. 647, 660. We shall then consider the
assignments of error which were brought to the attention
of the District Court of Appeals.
First, as to the allowance to the trustees of five per cent.
commission on the principal, and ten per cent. on the
income. As to this allowance, the auditor made a lengthy
finding of fact, setting forth in detail the services rendered
by the trustees over a period of ten years, finding, as to
the character of the estate, that the great bulk thereof
was second trust notes of small amounts, as to which the
auditor says that the transactions were almost innumerable, the total number of notes approximating three
thousand, and he sets forth in detail other services involving care of the real estate, looking after the repairs of
the property, acquiring parcels of real estate, and the
sale thereof, and saying in conclusion that he had no
hesitancy in finding that the trustees were well entitled
to the commissions allowed. This allowance met with
the approval of both the District Supreme Court and the
Court of Appeals, and seems to have the sanction of an
earlier decision of this court, where it was said that such
allowances were customary in Maryland and the District
of Columbia. Barney v. Saunders, 16 How. 535, 542.
We are not therefore prepared to disturb the decree of
the courts below in this respect.
VOL. ccxxxv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The next exception involves the allowance of the item
of $18,800.00 in the Probate Court of Massachusetts,
and charging the trustees with the balance of the estate
after that 'allowance had been made. It appears that the
executors Richardson and Drury appeared on April 4,
1899, in the Massachusetts Probate Court and by petition set forth that they had been appointed and had given
bond and due notice of their appointment as executors of
the will of William A. Richardson; that there was not
at the time of the grants of the letters testamentary, and
had not been since, property belonging to the testator in.
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; that since the
granting of letters testamentary Isabel Magruder, the
only surviving child and heir at law of the said testator
had deceased, and that under and by the terms and provisions of said will it was provided that upon her decease
the property of the testator should be held by the executors of. said will f6r the benefit of the two minor children'
surviving the said daughter, namely, Alexander Richardson Magruder, of the age of sixteen years, and Isabel
Richardson Magruder, of the age of about thirteen years;
that these children who were interested as beneficiaries
in the trusts created by the will, at the time of the probate
thereof.and ever since had resided at Washington, in the
District of Columbia; that Samuel Maddox and Samuel A.
Drury had been appointed by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia trustees for said minors, to carry out
the provisions of said will in behalf of the said minors,
aid that Alexander F. Magruder had been appointed
guardian of said minors; and they further represented to
the court that William A. Richardson was not at the
time of his decease a resident of Massachusetts, but of
the District of Columbia, and that all the parties in interest under the will, 'at the time of the probate thereof,
lived in Washington, as they had since and did then.
'They represented that the will should have been probated

MAGRUDER v. DRURY.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at Washington, in the District of Columbia, but either by
accident or mistake, probate in the Probate Court of
Middlesex County, Massachusetts, was had, and they
asked an order that they be au thorized to pay over the
trust funds to the trustees appointed by the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, and that upon the payment of such funds to such trustees they be discharged
from further liability.
A decree was entered in the Probate Court of Massachusetts on April 11, 1899, wherein it was found that by
the decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, dated April 1, 1899, Samuel Maddox and Samuel A.
Drury had been duly appointed trustees to perform the
trusts of the will, and that the beneficiaries were residents
of Washington, and that the guardian of the minors had
signified his consent to the granting of the petition, and
that the laws of the District of Columbia secured the
performance of the trusts, and Richardson and Drury as
executors, were authorized to pay over the trust funds to
Maddox and Drury, as trustees. On April 25, 1899, in
the same Probate Court, Richardson and Drury, as executors, filed their first and final account, in which they
charged themselves with property in the aggregate of
$415,458.37, and asked to be allowed sundry payments
and charges. This account was endorsed with a request
for its allowance, signed by Alexander R. Magruder and
Isabel R. Magruder, by their guardian, Alexander F.
Magruder, and by Maddox and Drury, as trustees. On
April 25, the Probate Court made the following order:
"The foregoing account having been presented for allowance, and verified by the oath of the accountant, and all
persons interested having consented thereto in writing,
and no objection being made thereto., and the same having
been examined and considered by the court: it is decreed
that said account be allowed." The schedules attached
show the property and the payments, charges, losses and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

distributions, among others the item of $18,800.00, to
which exception is made. This item states: "Expense of
administration, including care of property, the payment
of debts, the making of final account, the collection of
notes amounting to $226,607.54, the investment in trust
notes of $166,958.21, the collection from interest and
other sources of $58,168.94, the payment of about $50,000
for repairs on real estate, the taking up of prior mortgages,
taxes, etc., including also the payment of moneys to
Isabel Magruder and to Alexander F. Magruder, the
guardian of their minor children, counsel fees incurred in
the defense of suits for taxes in Massachusetts and for
.counsel fees in Washington, etc.,
$18,800.00."
The auditor held that he had no authority to disregard
or change this item of credit; that the same had been included in the reports of his predecessors and confirmed
by the court; and that the allowance, having been made
in the ,Probate Court of Massachusetts, was not open to
review.
The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, in
the course of its opinion in this case, states that the appellants contended that there was no jurisdiction in the
Probate Court of Massachusetts to probate the will, a
position which counsel for the appellant in this case disclaims in his brief fil6d herein, and says that the contention is that the order and decree in Massachusetts was
not intended to be operative to diminish the accountability
of the executors and trustees to the District of Columbia
court. But we do not so interpret the proceedings. The
account was filed in the Massachusetts court; and, the
record recites, was examined and considered by the court
and duly allowed. This order, read in connection with
the rules of the Massachusetts court set out at the head
of the account, stating the authority of the court to allow
reasonable expenses and compensation, shows that it
was the intention of the Probate Court to make an

MAGRUDER v. DRURY.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

allowance including such expenses and compensation.
Apart from the concession of the jurisdiction here made,
we have no doubt that the Massachusetts court, on the
presentation of the will, had the right to determine its
jurisdiction to receive and probate the same, and upon
ordering the property turned o'ver to. the trustees appointed in the District of Columbia, to settle the account
and fix the compensation of the executors and order the
balance turned over to the trustees. True, the Massachusetts court held, in the case of Dallinger v. Richardson,
176 Massachusetts, 77, supra, that Richardson was not a
resident of Massachusetts. In the course of the opinion
in that case, the court points out that, for the purpose of
the tax question, the matter of residence was not foreclosed by the adjudication of the Probate Court, whether
in accordance with the truth or not.
It is well settled that the decree of the court which has
acquired jurisdiction of an estate and settled an account
cannot be collaterally attacked, Jenison v. Hapgood, 7
Pickering 1, 7. In that case it was held that what assets
came into the executor's hands, what debts he had paid,
and so of every matter properly done or cognizable in the
Probate Court, the judgment of that court is conclusive.
See also Abbott v. Bradstreet, 3 Allen, 587. There was no
attempt to probate the will in the District of Columbia,
in which event the fincing of the fact of domicile in the
proceedings in Massachusetts would not have been conclusive here. Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214. The
trustees were authorized to receive the assets from the
executors. The Probate Court in Massachusetts, and
no other court, had, authority to settle the executors'
accounts and determine their compensation. Vaughan v.
Northup, 15 Pet. 1. We cannot agree with counsel for the
appellant that the order of the Probate Court was based
upon consent only, and that this is a case for the application of the rule that the trustees' consent to such a decree

OCTOBER TERIM,

1914.

Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

cannot work to the prejudice of the beneficiaries of the
trust. Whether the guardian might give such consent, we
do not find it necessary to decide, for the decree shows that
the account was presented, verified by the oath of the
accountants, and that it was examined and considered
by the court.
The next exception involves the allowance of commissions on the notes purchased from Mr. Drury's firm. The
contention before the auditor was that one trustee had
received compensation in connection with the handling of
these investments, and that that should be taken into
account. As to this exception, the auditor finds that "the
fact clearly appears from the testimony that Arms &
Drury as real estate brokers, made loans on trust notes,
upon which loans they were paid by the borrowers a commission ranging from one to two per cent., according to
the circumstances of the case, many- being building loans;
that subsequently as notes of the trust estate were paid
off Mr. Drury would reinvest the monies of the estate in
trust notes held by Arms & Drury, paying the face value
and accrued interest on the notes so purchased." As a
matter of law, the auditor concluded: "No profit was made
by the firm of Arms & Drury on the sales of the notes to
the trustees. . . . The transactions of Arms & Drury
with the trustees were in the regular course of their business, in which they had their own monies invested. They
cost the estate not a penny more than if the transactions
had been with some other firm or individual. If the firm
of Arms & Drury, out of their own monies, made loans on
promissory notes, upon which loans were paid by the
borrower the customary brokerages, those were profits
on their own funds, in which this estate could have no
interest, and in which it could acquire no interest by reason
of the subsequent purchase of those notes by the trustees
for their real value, any more than could any of the purchasers of such notes from Arms & Drury claim such an

MAGRUDER v. DRURY.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

interest. No charge of malfeasance or misfeasance is made
against the trustees or that by reason of these transactions
the trustees benefited in any manner out of the money of
this estate. On the contrary, the relation of the firm of
Arms & Drury to Drury and Maddox, trustees, benefited
the estate, by enabling the trustees at all times to make
immediate re-investment of its funds, without loss of income, and by enabling the trustees to at all times readily
procure re-investments without payment of brokerage, a
brokerage not uncommonly charged the lender for placing
his money, as well as the borrower for procuring his loan
in times of stringency. The application of the well known
rule in equity should rather, therefore, be in favor of the
trustees than against them with respect to these transactions. The objection narrows itself to a claim that Drury
by reason of his position as trustee, should in addition to
the benefit of his valuable services, commercial knowledge,
and business acumen, make the estate a gift of profits on
his individual monies, to which the estate is in no wise entitled, and to which it could not make a semblance of reasonable claim, had the trustees been other than Drury or
the agents of the estate been other than Arms and Drury."
This view seems to have met with the approval of the Supreme Court, and a like view was taken by the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, (37 D. C. App. 519,
supra).
It is a well settled rule that a trustee can make no profit
out of his trust. The rule in such cases springs from his
duty to protect the interests of the estate, and not to permit his personal interest to in any wise conflict with his
duty in that respect. The intention is to provide against
any possible selfish interest exercising an influence which
can interfere with the faithful discharge of the duty which
is owing in a fiduciary capacity. "It therefore prohibits a
party from purchasing on his own account that which his
duty or trust requires him to sell on account of another,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. 'S.

and from purchasing on account of another that which
he sells on his own account. In effect, he is not allowed to
unite the two opposite characters of buyer and seller,
because his interests, when he is the seller or buyer on his
own account, are directly conflicting with those of the
person on whose account he buys or sells." Michoud v.
Girod, 4 How. 503, 555.
It makes no difference that the estate was not a loser in
the transaction or that the commission was no more than
the services were reasonably worth. It is the relation of
the trustee to the estate which prevents his dealing in such
way as to make a personal profit for himself. The findings
show that the firm of which Mr. Drury was a member, in
making the loans evidenced by these notes, was allowed a
commission of one to two per cent. This profit was in fact
realized when the notes were turned over to the estate at
face value and accrued interest. The value of the notes
when they were turned over depended on the responsibility
and security back of them. When the notes were sold to
the estate it took the risk of payment without loss. While
no wrong was intended, and none was in fact done to the
estate, we think nevertheless that upon the principles
governing the duty of a trustee, the contention that this
profit could not be taken by Mr. Drury owing to his relation to the estate, should have been sustained.
We find no other error in the proceedings of the Court
of Appeals, but for the reason last stated, its decision
must be reversed, and the cause remanded to that court
with directions to remand the cause to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia for further proceedings in
accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

