OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

consists in assuming that testimony was not considered
and weighed for the purpose of the findings, when in fact
on the face of the record it is apparent that all the testimony offered was considered and weighed. When this is
borne in mind, it results that the contention at last reduces

itself to the proposition that the decree below should be
reversed and the case remanded because of an error never

committed; that is, to enable a duty to be legally performed which the record discloses had already been completely and lawfully discharged.

Affirmed.

L. E. WATERMAN COMPANY v. MODERN PEN
COMPANY.
MODERN PEN COMPANY v. L. E. WATERMAN
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 54, 72.

Argued November 10, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

When the use of his own name upon his goods by a later competitor will
and does lead the public to understand that such goods are the
product of a concern already established and well known under that
name, and when the profit of the confusion is known to, and, if that
be material, is intended by the later man, the law will require him to
take reasonable precautions to prevent the mistake. Herring-HallMarvin Co. v. Hall's Safe Co., 208 U. S. 554.
There is no distinction between corporations and natural persons in the
above principle, which is one to prevent a fraud.
All the protection which a manufacturer is entitled to get against a
later person of the same name manufacturing similar goods is to require the later person to so use his name in marking his goods that
they cannot be confused with the earlier manufacturer, and this

WATERMAN CO. v. MODERN PEN CO.
235 U. S.

Argument for L. E. Waterman Co.

though one of the motives of the later person was to obtain an advantage by the use of his own name.
While the transfer of a person's name without any business may not
be enough to entitle the transferee to prevent others from using the
name, it still is a license that may be sufficient to put the licensee on
the footing of the licensor against another party of the same name.
Two courts below having upheld arrangements as effective in giving a
licensee of the right to use a name the same protection which the
licensor would have had as against another party of the same name,
this court will not go into any consideration of the facts on which
such arrangement was based.
197 Fed. Rep. 534, 536, affirmed on cross appeals with costs equally
divided between both parties.

THE facts, which involve the use of the name Waterman in connection with the manufacture and sale of
fountain pens, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter B. Raymond and Mr. Oliver Mitchell, with
whom Mr. Victor C. Cormier and Mr. Mortimer W. Byers
were on the brief, for the L. E. Waterman Co.:
The burden of proof is upon the defendant company to
prove the affirmative defense set up by the answer, namely,
that the defendant, Modem Pen Company, is selling pens
made by a partnership rightfully doing business finder
the name "A. A. Waterman & Co." and rightly making
and marking the same with the firm name. Jacobs -v.
Beecham, 221 U. S. 263.
The only evidence in support of its affirmative defense
is a paper unsupported by any evidence that it was
ever followed by any acts constituting partnership action.
This is not sufficient to prove a partnership. Gray v.
Gibson, 6 Michigan, 300; Davis v. Key, 123 U. S. 79.
The testimony of A. A. Waterman taken in the plaintiff's primafacie case shows that the alleged firm was to do
nothing, that it had no function, that it was a paper firm,
that the Modern Pen Company while ostensibly the selling
agent for a manufacturing firm of A. A. Waterman & Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for L. E. Waterman Co.

235 U. S.

actually conducted the entire business; that A. A. Waterman, as a member of the alleged firm, had no management,
had no functions and under the firm was a salesman for the
Modern Pen Company. The defendant did not produce
any evidence to show that the alleged firm ever manufactured or did anything. Under these circumstances the
rule is applicable that where proof would be easy, if it existed, and it is not made, the presumption is that rebutting
proof cannot be made. Kirby v. Tallmadge, 160 U. S. 379;
Pac. S. S. Co. v. Bancroft, 94 Fed. Rep. 180; Penn. R. R.
Co. v. Anoka Bank, 108 Fed. Rep. 482.
The alleged partnership agreement is a fraud and a
sham and a mere colorable device to enable the defendant
to place the name "Waterman" on its pens. R. Heinisch's
Sons Co. v. Boker, 86 Fed. Rep. 765; Abel Morrall, Ltd., v.
Hessin & Co., 20 R. P. C. 429.
The Chapman-Waterman aggregation did not take over
any going business. Waterman had no good-will to grant
and no going business to which any good-will could be
appurtenant. As to the alleged grant of a right to use
Waterman's personal name, such a right cannot be granted
in gross. Thorneloe v. Hill, 11 R. P. C. 61-1894 (Ch.
Div.); Burrow v. Marceau, 124 A. D. (N. Y.) 665.
This ,case rests upon the proposition of whether or not a
man has the right to cede by contract the. use of his name
to strangers to that name for the purpose of competition
with an already established business. R. Heinisch's Sons
Co. v. Boker, 86 Fed. Rep. 765; Abel Morrall, Ltd., v. Hessin & Co., 20 R. P. C. 429; International Silver Co. v.
Rogers, 118 Fed. Rep. 133; National Distilbng Co. v.. Century Co., 183 Fed. Rep. 206; Royal Baking Powder Co. v.
Royal, 122 Fed. Rep. 343; Garrett v. Garrett, 78 Fed. Rep.
472.
The question of the right of Arthur A. Waterman to use
his personal name in the conduct of his business is in no
way raised by this proceeding.

WATERMAN CO. v. MODERN PEN CO.
235 U. S.

Argument for Modern Pen Co.

The question for decision is as to the right of a corporation to use a personal name in the selling of goods.
The defendant has encouraged the use of the name
"Waterman" by its dealers and agents and has sought to
unfairly profit by the resulting confusion in the trade.
The defendant having failed to sustain the burden of
proving its affirmative defense that it is the selling agent
of a valid existing partnership actually manufacturing the
pens sold by it and rightfully marking the same with the
name "A. A. Waterman & Co.," should be absolutely enjoined from using the name "Waterman."
Mr. Alexander S. Bacon for the Modern Pen Company:
A. A. Waterman had been in the fountain pen business
since before 1898, when under a decree in an action between the L. E. Waterman Company and himself and another, he was expressly permitted to do business under the
firm name of A. A. Waterman & Co., but was prevented
from doing business under the corporate name of the A. A.
Waterman Pen Company. Since that date he has been
continuously in thr fountain pen business. On the reorganization in 1905, of an old firm of A. A. Waterman & Co.
in which he was interested, a new firm was organized consisting of himself and the Messrs. Chapman. Under the
copartnership agreement he retired from the eastern field
and took over the western field in 1906, assigning his good
will and the use of his name to his partners, the present
firm of A. A. Waterman & Co., of which the Modern Pen
Company is the sole selling agent.
A trade-mark or trade-name is assignable. Burden v.
Stratton, 12 Fed. Rep. 696; Brown Chemical Co. v. Meyer,
139 U. S. 540.
There is no confusion except that slight confusion which
arises from the similarity of names, against which courts
will grant no relief. Meneeley v. Meneeley, 62 N. Y. 432.
The court below required the use of the firm name,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Modern Pen Co.,

235 U. S.

Arthur A. Waterman & Co. together with a suffix "Not
connected with the L. E. Waterman Company." The
suffix is much longer than the name, is inartistic and obnoxious to all parties. There are now at least twelve firms
in the silverware business bearing the name of Rogers. If
a man named John Doe Rogers should now start in the
silverware business, he might be required in all his advertisements and on all his wares to use in addition to his own
name of John Doe Rogers, thirteen separate and distinct
suffixes "Not connected with the J. Rogers Silverware
Company-," "Not connected with the William Rogers
Manufacturing Company," etc. This extreme example
shows the impropriety of such a suffix.
A. A. Waterman was properly so named before the
L. E. Waterman Company was organized. He had a right
to use his own name, notwithstanding the fact that some
one else had organized a corporation before he went into
business. The plaintiff brought the trouble upon itself
by selecting a family name for a corporate name. Such
a suffix is unprecedented and unwarranted. Arthur A.
Waterman & Co. is not sufficiently lile L. E. Waterman
Company to lead to confusion.
The elements of simulation, or inferior goods, or recent
entry into the field, do not enter into this question. The
defendant is not accused of simulating the plaintiff's-wares.
The A. A. Waterman fountain pen is the best that modern
art can produce, and A. A. Watermafi & Co. manufadture
everything connected with their own pens while the plaintiff does not. It merely assembles the parts bought from
others.
A. A. Waterman has been in business under his own
name for many years and assigned his trade name to his
partners on retiring from the firm. In these circumstances
the new firm of A. A. Waterman & Co. has an absolute
right at common law and by statute to the use of their
trade-name, unfettered by any suffix. Tumzaud v. Tus-

WATERMAN CO. v. MODERN PEN CO.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

saud, L. R. 44 Chant. Div. 678; Herring-Hall-MarvinSafe
Co. v. Hall's Safe Co., 208 U. S. 554; Rathbone, Sard & Co.
v. Champion Steel Range Co., 189 Fed. Rep. 26.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the L. E. Waterman Company to enjoin the Modern Pen Company from using in
connection with the manufacture and sale of fountain
pens, other than those of the plaintiff's make, the name
A. A. Waterman or any name containing the word Waterman in any form, and for an account. The decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals upon an order for a preliminary
injunction is reported, 183 Fed. Rep. 118; 105 C. C. A.
408; that of the District Court upon the merits, 193 Fed.
Rep. 242; and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 197
Fed. Rep. 534; 197 Fed. Rep. 536; 117 C. C. A. 30; 117
C. C. A. 32. The final decree, in the parts material here,
restricted the defendant to using the name Arthur A.
Waterman & Co. instead of A. A. Waterman & Co., and
required the words 'not connected with the L. E. Waterman Co.' to be juxtaposed in equally large and conspicuous letters when the permitted name was marked
upon any part of the fountain pen sold by the defendant
or upon boxes containing such pens, and whenever the
name was used by way of advertisement or otherwise to
denote any fountain pens made or sold by the defendant,
or to, denote that it was the maker or seller of such pens.
183 Fed: Rep. 118. 193 Fed. Rep. 242, 248. 197 Fed. Rep.
534, 535, 536. See further L. E. Waterman Co. v. Standard
Drug Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 167, 171. 120 C. C. A. 455, 459.
The bill besides alleging diversity of citizenship and
unfair competition seemingly relied upon the registration
of 'Waterman's' and 'Waterman's Ideal Fountain Pen,
N. Y.' as trade-marks under the Act of Congress of
March 3, 1881, c. 138, 21 Stat. 502, as a ground of juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

diction. Jacobs v. Beecham, 221 U. S. 263, 274. Both
parties appeal.
The defendant's appeal is from the requirements that
it use the name Arthur A. Waterman & Co. instead of
A. A. Waterman & Co. and that it juxtapose the words
'not connected with the L. E. Waterman Co.' After
the finding of two courts and upon the evidence it must
be assumed that the defendant had used the name Waterman in such a way as to mislead the public and to interfere
with the plaintiff's rights unless the defendant had the
right to use the name as matter of law because it was the
selling agent of a firm calling itself A. A. Waterman &
Co. and deriving its name from a man who started in
business lbng after the plaintiff had acquired whatever
rights it has. In support of this proposition the defendant
lays hold of language in Howe Scale Co. v. Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 140, and in other books, to
the effect that courts will not interfere with the use of a
party's own name 'where the only confusion, if any,
results from a similarity of the names and not from the
manner of the use.' But, whatever generality of expression there may have been in the earlier cases, it now is
established that when the use of his own name upon his
goods by a later competitor will and does lead the public
to understand that those goods are the product of a concern already established and well known under that name,
and when the profit of the confusion is known to and,
if that be material, is intended by the later man, the law
will require him to take reasonable precautions to prevent
the mistake. Herring-Hall-Marvin Safe Co. v. Hall's
Safe Co., 208. U. S. 554, 559. There is no distinction between corporations and natural persons in the principle,
which is to prevent a fraud. Ibid. Howe Scale Co. v.
Wyckoff, Seamans & Benedict, 198 U. S. 118, 136. Donnell
v. Herring-Hall-MarvyinSafe Co., 208 U. S. 267, 273. In
the Howe Scale Co. Case it was stated upon the same page

WATERMAN CO v. MODERN PEN CO.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with the passage quoted that 'defendant's name and
trade-mark were not intended or likely to deceive.'
The only other ground for the defendant's appeal that
needs a word after the findings below is a decree of the
Supreme Court of New York in a suit by the plaintiff
against Arthur A. Waterman and Edward L. Gibson,
partners doing business as the A. A. Waterman Pen Company of New York and Boston. The defendant alleges
that it has succeeded to A. A. Waterman's rights. The
decisiori found in the strongest terms that the name was
used with fraudulent intent and the decree in some detail
enjoined the defendant from using that or any corporate
name containing the word 'Waterman,' and from using
in connection with the business of making or selling fountain pens the word Waterman alone or with others in such
collocation with the word pen as to indicate that such
pens were a variety of Waterman's fountain pens. This
rather damaging decree is thought to give some help because of a following sentence to the effect that the defendants were not prohibited from indicating that their
pens were made or sold for or by Arthur A. Waterman &
Co. or A. A. Waterman & Co. But that sentence was
subject to the previous prohibition and consistent with
it. The present defendant still not only may indicate
the source of its pens in undeceptive ways but may mark
them Arthur A. Waterman & Co. if only it add words
that prevent the fraud that it insists upon the right to
effect. It is unnecessary to go into other considerations
presented by the record to show that the defendant's appeal cannot be maintained.
The plaintiff's appeal is from the failure of the decree
to prohibit the use of the name Arthur A. Waterman &
Co. even with the suffix required by the court. The
ground upon which it claims this broader relief is that the
agreement with A. A. Waterman by which he purported to
become a partner in the firm of A. A. Waterman & Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

was a sham, that the firm does not make the pens sold
by the defendant, and that all the arrangements between
Waterman the firm and the defendant were merely colorable devices to enable the defendant to get the name upon
its pens. If we were to adopt this view of the facts the
nature of the parties' rights and powers perhaps might
need a more careful discussion than, so far as we are aware,
it has received as yet. Under the decree in its present
form the plaintiff gets all the protection to which it is
entitled as against another Waterman who has established
himself in the business, even though one of his motives
for going into it was the hope of some residual advantages
from the use of his own name. If with the warning that
the law decrees sufficient to prevent a fraud a second
Waterman could go into the business and give it his name,
the question occurs whether a man might not change his
name to Waterman and do the same thing, and,, if so,
whether the nature of the defendant's title to the name is
any concern of the plaintiffs-whether in short the protection now granted is limited by reason of a personal
privilege or is the measure of the plaintiff's rights as against
the world. We express no opinion upon the point beyond
saying that it would have to be considered before the
plaintiff could obtain a broader decree. For the purposes
of decision we give the plaintiff the benefit of the doubt.
Whatever view may be taken of the agreements, there
is no question that they were intended, with A. A. Waterman's assent, to authorize the use of his name in a business that he had pecuniary reasons for wishing to see
succeed. He purported to transfer to the partnership the
good will attaching to his name. While it very well may be
true that the transfer of a name without a business is not
enough to entitle the transferee to prevent others from
using it, it still is a license that may be sufficient to put the
licensee on the footing of the licensor as against the plaintiff. Moreover two courts have upheld the arrangements

WATERMAN CO. v. MODERN PEN CO.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as effective to give the defendant the protection of such
rights as A. A. Waterman would have had in establishing
a business after the plaintiff, and therefore we shall not
go into any consideration of the facts.
It cannot be said the partnership agreement was ineffectual for the present purpose as matter of law. The
object is pretty plain, 'but it is none the worse for that.
The leading features are as follows: A partnership is
formed under the name A. A. Waterman & Co. Contributions of capital are to be deemed loans and bear
interest. The two partners other than Waterman have
the management of the business and alone can sign negotiable paper and contracts. The business is to make, buy
and sell fountain pens, and the defendant corporation is
to be formed, (the parties to be interested in it) and is to
be the sole selling agent of the-firm. Waterman grants to
the firm the exclusive use of his own and the firm names
in connection with the business, and all the good will
attaching to either. The Continent is divided into two
defined districts, and Waterman has the exclusive right
to do business under the name A. A. Waterman & Co. in
the Western District, if he begins it before July 1, 1906,
and the remaining members the exclusive right to the
Eastern District. In any event Waterman leaves the
present firm at that date. Each party has the free use
of all patents, trade-marks and trade-names within their
territories that either party has or may acquire. Eastern
Territory goods are to be marked 'A. A. Waterman & Co.,
New York' and those made in the Western, 'A. A. Waterman & Co., (or some similar name) Chicago.' Waterman
covenants not to compete for thirty-six years, or to use
or allow the use of his name except as provided. Finally
if Waterman does not go into independent business he is
to have the exclusive agency for the Western Territory
for the thirty-six years, and his cormimissions are fixed in
detail and with care.
VOL. ccxXxv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

As we have said we do not reopen the matters of fact
that must be taken to have been found by the two courts.
So we assume that there was nothing to hinder Waterman
from making this agreement and that the defendant was
organized and acted under it. Whether he had more or
less good will to convey perhaps is not very material. We
are not prepared to say as matter of law that a man who
for years has been trying to do business, may not join a
partnership for a long time enough to start it with his
name and whatever good will he has, and provide that
thereafter he will divide territory as above stated or become a selling agent, at his choice. The obvious motive
is met by the protection given in the decree, but does not
deprive him of all rights in his name. A sufficient interest
is disclosed to sustain the transfer as against the plaintiff
and to free the defendant from a greater liability than
would have fallen on A. A. Waterman had he gone on
alone.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY:

In No. 72, the appeal of the Modern Pen Company, I
concur in the result.
In No. 54, the appeal of the L. E. Waterman Company,
I dissent from the conclusion reached by the court. It
seems to me that the alleged partnership agreement of
June 12, 1905, made between Arthur A. Waterman and
others, pursuant to which the Modern Pen Company was
organized and under which it claims the right to use the
name of "A. A. Waterman" and "A. A. Waterman & Co.,"
appears upon its face to be a mere sham and a fraudulent
device, and is demonstrated to be such by the other evidence. The case presents no question respecting the right
of an individual to tie bonafide use of his name, but rather
the question whether a partnership or a corporation can,

SAGE v. HAMPE.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

by purchase or otherwise, obtain the right to use the name
of a third party for the very purpose of employing it in
unfair competition with the established business of still
another party. The case in its circumstances closely
resembles InternationalSilver Company v. Rogers Corporation, 67 N. J. Eq. 646, and, for reasons sufficiently indicated
by a reference to that case, I think the Modern Pen Company should be unqualifiedly enjoined from using the
name "Waterman."

SAGE v. HAMPE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 82.

Argued November 12, 13, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

Where plaintiff in error wasdefendant in the state court in a suit upon
a contract to convey Indian allottee lands and relied as a defense
upon an act of Congress making the conveyance invalid, he is entitled to come to this court. Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12.
While one may contract that a future event shall come to pass over
which he has no, or only a limited, power, Globe Refining Co. v. Landa
Cotton Co., 190 U. S. 540, he is not liable for non-performance of, nor
can he be compelled to perform, a contract that on its face requires
an illegal act either of himself or of a third party.
A contract that invokes prohibited conduct makes the contractor a
contributor to such conduct. Kalem Co. v. Harper'Bros., 222 U. S.
55.
A contract tending to bring to bear improper influence upon an officer
of the United States and to induce attempts to mislead him is contrary to public policy and non-enforceable.
The protection of the Indians in their title to allotments is the policy
of the United States and one that the States cannot regard or disregard at will.
Where a contract affecting Indian lands might be held unenforceable
as a matter of common law, but this court construes a Federal statute

