OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED

STATES

v. WIGGER,
JOHN.

235 U. S.

ALIAS

MOOSE

ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA, FOURTH DIVISION.

No. 349.

Argued October 23, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

The fet of the legislature of Alaska of April 26, 1913, so amending § 43
of Title II of the Alaska Code of Criminal Procedure enacted by
Congress March 3, 1899, that several charges against any person for
similar offenses can properly be joined in one indictment, was within
the power delegated by Congress to the legislature of Alaska by the
act of August 24, 1912.
The clause in § 3 of the act of August 24, 1912, providing that all laws
theretofore passed by Congress establishing executive and judicial
departments in Alaska should continue until amended or repealed
by Congress, related to laws establishing such departments and not
merely regulating procedure, and the form of indictment was open to
amendment by the territorial legislature.
THE facts, which' involve the validity and construction
of an act of the territorial legislature of Alaska amending
§ 43 of Title II of the Alaska Code of Civil Procedure so
as to permit one indictment for several offenses of the
same class,. are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren for the United
States.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant
in error.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The grand jury returned an indictment against defendant in error containing three counts, charging him with
as many different violations of the criminal laws in force

UNITED STATES v. WIGGER.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in Alaska. He demurred upon the ground (among others)
that more than one crime was charged. The demurrer
was sustained by the District Court upon this ground, and
the case comes here under the Criminal Appeals Act of
March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246. The other grounds
of the demurrer need not be further noticed.
By'§ 43 of Title II of the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1899 (Alaska Code of Criminal Procedure, c. 429,
30 Stat. 1253, 1290; Comp. Laws of Alaska, § 2152), it
was declared that "the indictment must charge but one
crime, and in one form only; except that where the crime
may be committed by use of different means the indictment may allege the means in the alternative." And by
§ 90 of the same Code (30 Stat. 1294; Comp. Laws of
Alaska, § 2199), the defendant was entitled to demur
where more than one crime was charged. But by an act
of the legislature of Alaska, approved April 26, 1913 (Sess.
Laws, p. 65), it was enacted that § 43 of Title II of the act
just mentioned should be amended to read (like §1024,
Rev. Stat.) as follows:
"When there are several charges against any person for
the same act or transaction, or for two or more acts or
transactions connected together, or for two or more" acts
or transactions of the same class of crimes or offenses,
which may be properly joined, instead of having several
indictments the whole may be joined in one indictment in
separate counts; and if two or more indictments are found
in such cases, the court may order them to be consolidated."
The sole question presented for decision is whether
this act of the territorial legislature was efficacious to
amend the act of Congress. In Summers v. United States,
231 U. S. 92, 105, the validity of the territorial act was
assumed; but no question had been raised about it.
Local powers of legislation were first conferred upon
Alaska by act of Congress of August 24, 1912, c. 387, 37

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 512, of which the most pertinent clauses are set
forth in the margin.' The scope of the authority of the
'An Act to create a legislative assembly in the Territory of Alaska,
to confer legislative power thereon, and for other purposes.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

SEC. 3. CONSTITUTION AND LAWS OF UNITED STATES EXTENDED.-

That the Constitution of the United States, and all the laws thereof
which are not locally inapplicable, shall have the same force and effect
within the said Territory as elsewhere in the United States; that all
the laws of the United States heretofore passed establishing the executive and judicial departments in Alaska shall continue in full force and
effect until amended or repealed by Act of Congress; that except as
herein provided all laws now in force in Alaska shall continue in full
force and effect until altered, amended, or repealed by Congress or by
the legislature: Provided, That the authority herein granted to the
legislature to alter, amend, modify, and repeal laws in force in Alaska
shall not extend to the customs, internal-revenue, postal, or other
general laws of the United States or to the game, fish, and fur-seal
laws and laws relating to fur-bearing animals of the United States applicable to Alaska, or to the laws of the United States providing fc.
taxes on business and trade, or to the act entitled "An Act to provide
for the construction and maintenance of roads, the establishment and
maintenance of schools, and the care and support of insane persons in
the District of Alaska, and for other purposes," approved January
twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and five, and the several Acts
amendatory thereof: Provided further, That this provision shall not
operate to prevent the legislature from imposing other and additional
taxes or licenses. And the legislature shall pass no law depriving the
judges and officers of the district court of Alaska of any authority,
jurisdiction, or function exercised by like judges or officers of district
courts of the United States.
SEC. 4. THE LEGISLATURE.-That the legislative power and authority of said Territory shall be vested in a legislature, which shall
consist of a senate and a house of representatives. .
SE.*

*

"*

*

*

*

*

*

Suc. 9. LEGISLATIVE POWER-LMITATIONs.-The legislative power
of the Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not
inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the United States, but
no law shall be passed interfering with the primary disposal of the soil;
[Here follow numerous express limitations none of which has reference
to the present subject.]
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

UNITED STATES v. WIGGER.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

territorial legislature, so far as the present question is
concerned, depends especially upon the true intent and
meaning of the clause contained in § 3, "that all the laws
of the United States heretofore passed establishing the
executive and judicial departments in Alaska shall continue in full force and effect until amended or repealed
by Act of Congress."
In order to determine what laws were by this language
preserved from interference at the hands of the local
legislature a brief review is necessary.
The territory in question having been ceded to the
United States by the Emperor of Russia by treaty of
March 30, 1867 (15 Stat. 539), Congress in the following
year extended to it certain of the laws of the United States,
at the same time enacting that until otherwise provided
violations of the Act should be prosecuted in any district
court of the United States in California or Oregon or in
the District Courts of Washington (Act of July 27, 1868,
c. 273, 15 Stat. 240, 241, § 7). By act of May 17, 1884,
entitled "An act providing a civil government for Alaska"
(c. 53, 23 Stat. 24), the Territory was declared to constitute a civil and judicial district; the appointment of a
governor with executive authority was provided for, and
by the third section it was enacted: "There shall be, and
hereby is, established a district court for said district,
with the civil and criminal jurisdiction of district courts
of the United States, and the civil and criminal jurisdiction of district courts of the United States exercising the
jurisdiction of circuit courts, and such other jurisdiction, not inconsistent with this act, as may be established by law." Provision was made for the appointment of a district judge and four commissioners, whose
SEC. 20. LAWS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO CONGRESs.--That all-laws
passed by the Legislature of the Territory of Alaska shall be submitted to the Congress by the President of the United States, and, if
disapproved by Congress, they shall be null and of no effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

jurisdiction and powers were prescribed, and for appellate
review.
By the act of March 3, 1899, already mentioned (c. 429,
30 Stat. 1253), Congress provided an elaborate criminal
code and code of criminal procedure, of which Title I
contains 219 sections, defining crimes and offenses, and
providing for their punishment, and Title II contains 481
sections, dealing for the most part with proceedings for
the punishment and prevention of the crimes defined in
Title I. By act of June 6, 1900, entitled "An Act Making
further provision for a civil government for Alaska, and
for other purposes" (c. 786, 31 Stat. 321), further provision was made, under Title I, for thb establishment -of
1
the executive and judicial departments in the Territory.
Title II contains 1048 sections, constituting a Code of
Civil Procedure (31 Stat. 333-494; Comp. Laws of Alaska,
378-638). Title III contains 368 sections, and is called
the Civil Code (31 Stat. 494-552; Comp. Laws of Alaska,
277-362). In the Code of Civil Procedure, a chapter (31
Stat. 442, §§ 698 et seq.) is devoted to the courts of justice,
and contains sections prescribing their jurisdiction, powers,
and authority. By an act approved March 3, 1909, c. 269,
35 Stat. 838, 839, § 2, the act of 1900 was amended with
respect to the jurisdiction of the District Court.
As already remarked, legislative power was" first conferred upon the Territory by the act of. August 24, 1912,
c. 387, 37 Stat. 512. From the provision of this act
1"An Act Making further provision for a civil government for
Alaska, and for other purposes.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

$*

SEC. 4. There is hereby established a district court for the district;,
which shall be.a court of general jurisdiction in civil, criminal, equity,
and admiralty causes; and three district judges shall be appointed for
the district, who shall, during their terms of' oce, reside in the divi-

sions, of the distriqt to which they may be respectively assigned by the

President. ..

UNITED STATES v. WIGGER.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"That all the laws of the United States heretofore passed
establishing the executive and judicial departments in
Alaska shall continue in full force and effect until amended
oi repealed by Act of Congress" the District Court, after
a review of the other legislation to which attention has
been called, drew the conclusion that the laws concerning
procedure in actions prosecuted in the name of the United
States and by its officers are an essential and integral part
of the laws establishing the executive and judicial departments, and that therefore these can be amended or
repealed only by act of Congress.
With this view we are unable to concur. It seems to
us that by the language employed, Congress intended to
draw a clear distinction between those laws by which
the executive and judicial departments had been established in the Territory and those minor regulations that
had to do with practice and procedure. Those enactments by which Congress had provided for the appointment of executive and judicial officers for the Territory
and had marked out the powers, authority, and jurisdiction of each, and provided safeguards for their maintenance, are properly within the category of laws "establishing" those departments. These laws, and not those
merely regulating the procedure, were by the act of 1912
continued in force until amended or repealed by act of
Congress. The section respecting the form of indictments
was open to amendment by the territorial legislature, and
the act of April 26, 1913, passed for that purpose, is therefore valid.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in accordancewith this opinion.
MR. JusTicE McRiEYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

