OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

ante, p. 461, and on the authority of that case the decree in
this is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

and MR. JUSTICE

LAMAR, dissenting.

For reasons expressed in the dissenting opinion in
Lankford v. Platte Iron Works Company, this day decided,
ante, p. 461, I am unable to concur in the opinion and
judgment of the court in this case.

FARIH v. STATE BANKING BOARD OF THE
STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
STATE BANKING BOARD OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA v. FARISH.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
. FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
Nos. 446, 447.

Argued October 14, 15, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Lankford v. Platte Iron Works, ante, p. 461, followed to the effect that
under the Eleventh Amendment the State Banking Board and Bank
Commissioner of Oklahoma are not subject to suit by depositors of
insolvent banks.
Although one may become subrogated to all the rights of a depositor
in an insolvent bank in Oklahoma, that does not give him the right
of suit against the state officers administering the Depositors' Guaranty Fund.
As the statute creating the State Banking Board of Oklahoma does not
give the Board power to waive the State's exemption from suit, an

FARISH v. STATE BANKING BOARD.
235 U. S.

Argument for Farish.

appearance on behalf of the members of the Board does not amount
to such a waiver. Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U. S. 273, distinguished.
Quire, where the court has entered a decree establishing rights between
the individual parties but dismissing the suit as against the state
officers on the ground that it was one against the State, whether those
officers by employing counsel to resist complainant's recovery are
not bound by the decree to the extent of the rights adjudicated.

THE facts, which involve the claims of depositors in

certain Oklahoma banks and the application of the
Eleventh Amendment to suits in the Federal court to
compel the members of the State Banking Board of
Oklahoma to make payments from and distribute the
Depositors' Guaranty Fund, and also the question of
whether the State consented to be sued, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Amos L. Beaty for Farish:
The Banking Board does not represent the State of
Oklahoma in true governmental capacity and therefore
is not within the exemption from suit contained in the
Eleventh Amendment.
But even if the Banking Board did represent the State
it could not successfully claim here an exemption from
suit since it owes the appellant a specific statutory
duty.
Moreover, by participation in the former suit and interference with the process of the court the Banking Board
waived any exemption from suit which otherwise it might
have claimed.
The fact that the statute fails to classify the Banking
Board as a body corporate, or to provide that it may be
sued, is no impediment in this proceeding; and it is also
immaterial that the legislature has changed the composition of the Board and its plan of assessment.
In equity appellant was not only a depositor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the State Banking Board.

235 U. S.

Oklahoma Trust Company but, funds belonging to him
in that amount and other amounts having been used to
pay depositors, he became subrogated and is entitled to
be treated as though he held assignments from the various
depositors who were thus paid; hence the Banking Board
should be required to pay him the amount deposited and
also such portion of the other funds as may not be realized
from the impounded securities or on the decree against
the bank, together with legal interest.
Mr. Joseph L. Hull and Mr. Walter A. Ledbetter, with
whom Mr. Harry L. Stuart and Mr. Robert R. Bell were
on the brief, for the State Banking Board.
The Oklahoma Supreme Court has established the
rule that the depositors' guaranty fund created under
banking laws of that State by the compulsory assessment
of state banks is not liable for any debt except that of
the ordinary depositor; that that fund is created not for
the benefit of the general creditors of the state bank, nor
for any persons to whom the bank might become liable
by reason of the totts of its officers, nor upon any obligation whatever except that arising from the ordinary relation which is created when one of its customers deposits
his money in the bank. See Columbia Trust Co. v. United
States Guaranty Co., 33 Oklahoma, 535; Lankford v.
Oklahoma Engraving Co., 35 Oklahoma, 404; Lovett v.
Lankford (Oklahoma), 145 Pac. Rep. 767.
The depositors' guaranty fund being one of the public
funds of the State, created for the taxing power and
administered by the public officers of the State, enjoys
the same exemption from judicial control as any other
public fund which is subject to legislative control. Lovett
v. Lankford (Oklahoma), 145 Pac. Rep. 767, and cases
cited in opinion.
In the course of the administration of the depositors'
guaranty fund many conflicts of opinion and jurisdiction

FARISH v. STATE BANKING BOARD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would necessarily occur if the courts should assume the
authority to participate in the administration of this
fund. Under the statutes, control of this fund by the
Banking Board is practically complete. It may be used
not only to pay the depositors of failed banks but frequently to aid banks while in a failing condition.
If the courts could control the Banking Board there
would be an unseemly conflict of jurisdiction between the
judicial and the Executive Departments. This is true if
the state courts alone should assume jurisdiction to interfere in the administration of the depositors' guaranty
fund. More intense and complicated conflicts would
arise, of course, if the Federal courts should assume the
jurisdiction to administer on any part of the depositors'
guaranty fund.
The only-safe rule to observe is that the administration
of this fund, which under the decision of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma-has been held to be one of the public
funds of the State, should be left exclusively to the officers
composing the Banking Department of the State.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit in equity brought by appellant against the State
Banking Board and the Bank Commissioner of the State
of Oklahoma, the Oklahoma Trust Company, the Alamo
State Bank, the McNerney Company, corporations, and
one P. J. McNerney. Later the Union State Bank, another corporation, was made a defendant. The object
of the suit was to compel the Banking Board to pay
appellant, as an equitable depositor of the Oklahoma
Trust Company, a failed banking institution, the sum
of $25,351.63. Another object was subrogation to and
the establishment and enforcement of liens in the amount
of $61,252.40 upon certain funds and impounded securities,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

with a decree against the Banking Board for -any final
deficiency or unpaid balances.
The Banking Board demurred to the bill on the ground,
stated with much circumstance, (1) that the suit was in
effect against the State of Oklahoma; and (2) for want of
equity. The demurrer was overruled. The Banking
Board and the Union State Bank filed answers admitting
some of the allegations of the bill and denying others, to
which there were replications. A decree pro confesso
was taken against the other defendants which was subsequently made final.
On final hearing the court decreed subrogation and
established and foreclosed a lien on certain of the securities
in controversy and rendered a money decree against
the Union State Bank for $18,018.58.
The court reversed its ruling on demurrer of the Banking
Board, holding that '.'
because it is the opinion of the court
that said State Banking Board represents the State and
is not suable on such account, said complainant shall
take nothing as against said Banking Board, and in that
behalf the latter shall go hence without day."
Farish then prayed for an order allowing appeal from
that part of the decree which denied him relief against
the State Banking Board on the ground that it was one
in effect against the State and that the question of the
jurisdiction. of the court be certified to this court. The
appeal was allowed and the certificate made.
The Union State Bank and the State Banking Board
also prayed an appeal from that part of the decree which
adjudged that judgment be rendered against the Union
State Bank for the sum of $18,018.58 with interest, being
the amount of a certain deposit alleged to have been
transferred from the Alamo State Bank to it, and that
the State Banking Board and the State Bank Commissioner did not have a first and prior lien as against complainant for the reimbursement of the amount of money

FARISH v. STATE BANKING BOARD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taken by the Board and Commissioner from the Depositors' Guaranty Fund to pay off and discharge the deposits of the Alamo State Bank and the Oklahoma Trust
Company and a first lien on the same account and for
the same purpose on certain other securities.
There was an order of severance ansd the case is here
on these appeals and the certificate of jurisdiction made
by the District Court.
The pleadings are very long and set forth the grounds
of suit with circumstantial detail. A repetition of them
is not necessary. The appellant's case depends upon two
propositions: (1) Whether he was an equitable depositor
of the Oklahoma Trust Company. (2) This established,
whether the Banking Board is subject to be sued by
him.
His rights have their origin in an assignment to him by
a corporation called the Texas Company.
The Texas Company furnished material to the contractors for certain paving work in the city of Muskogee,
Oklahoma, for which bonds were issued and upon which,
by agreement between the parties and the Oklahoma
Trust Company, the Texas Company was given a first
lien. Bonds to the amount of $154,035.92 were issued
and delivered to the Oklahoma Trust Company and disposed of by it or carried as a deposit to the credit of itself
as trustee and of which there remained to its credit as
trustee -on January 3, 1910, the sum of $25,351.63. It
paid to the Texas Company o.ly $27,906.57 of the proWeds of the sale of the bonds. The balance of the sum
was used by the Oklahoma Trust Company in various
ways which are detailed at length in the bill of complaint
and traced to the possession of the Alamo State Bank
and through that bank to the Banking Board, 'the Banking
Board having taken possession under the banking laws
of the State of the Alamo State Bank upon its becoming
insolvent. The Alamo State Bank obtained the assets

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court:

235 U. S.

of the Oklahoma Trust Company through a sale by the
latter company to it on January 3, 1910. Composing
these assets was the sum of $25,357.63, carried as a deposit by the Oklahoma Trust Company, and other sums,
being credit balances of the Oklahoma Trust Company
in other banks, cash paid to the Alamo State Bank and
used by it to pay the indebtedness of the Oklahoma
Trust Company or its depositors.
The assets of the Alamo State Bank were sold to the
Union State Bank by the Banking Board acting under
the authority of an order of the District Court of Muskogee
County. The Union State Bank assumed in consideration thereof the payment of the depositors of the Alamo
State Bank.
On December 18, 1909, the complainant herein brought
suit against the Oklahoma Trust Company and others
to establish his right to the paving bonds or their proceeds.
The suit was numbered 1239. A receiver was appointe"
who was directed to demand and receive from the Oklahoma Trust Company the proceeds of the paving bonds
and from all persons who might have them. The receiver
duly qualified. On August 6, 1910, subsequent to the
sale by the Oklahoma Trust Company of its assets to the
Alamo State Bank, the complainant filed a motion against
the latter bank for the purpose of obtaining an order for
contempt and peremptorily requiring it to immediately
pay and turn over to the receiver the proceeds of the
bonds received by it.
The Banking Board subsequently appointed counsel
to appear in that suit for the purpose of defeating the recovery by the complainant. In that suit all of the defenses herein pleaded were set up. The Union State
Bank also appeared in that suit and aided in its defense.
The final decree in that case adjudged among other
things, that the complainant became entitled to the proceeds of the paving bonds and the Oklahoma Trust Com-

FARISH v. STATE BANKING BOARD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany was ordered forthwith to deliver their proceeds to
him.
The Oklahoma Trust Company and the Alamo State
Bank were banking institutions under the laws of the
State and subject to the banking laws and paid in accordance with such laws assessments to the Banking
Board, including certain emergency assessments for the
purpose of creating and maintaining a depositors' guaranty fund as provided by law. And it is alleged that the
depositors of the Oklahoma Trust Company, except complainant, were paid or caused to be paid by the Alamo
State Bank and that this was accomplished by the use
of the proceeds of the paving bonds obtained by the Alamo
State Bank. That the latter bank received not less than
$65,000 of the proceeds of the bonds as a part of the consideratibn of the assumption of the payment of the depositors of the Oklahoma Trust Company: "that the
State, and, through it, said depositors, had a lien on all
of the assets of said Oklahoma Trust Company to secure
the payment of said depositors; and that, to the extent
that the proceeds of said paving bonds were so used,
your orator is subrogated to said lien, and, moreover,
since said depositors were entitled to resort to the depositors' guaranty fund in the hands of said State Banking B6ard, and this was averted by said use of the proceeds of said paving bonds, a trust fund to which your
oraor was entitled, he is subrogated to that extent to the
rights of said depositors against said guaranty fund, as it exists and shall exist, and against said State Banking Board."
The facts of the case are set out in the opinion of the
court and need not be further stated, and the grounds
of decision and the relief granted are expressed in the
decree hereinafter set out.
The case of complainant is, indeed, sufficiently though
generally stated in a letter which his counsel addressed
to the Banking Board. It is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

"Dallas, Texas, July 26, 1910.
"State Banking Board, Guthrie, Oklahoma.
"State Banking Board, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
"Gentlemen: Under contracts of January 5, and June 14,
1909, and transfer of December 9, 1909, my client, W. S.
Farish, had a lien for more than $180,000 on certain paving bonds issued to P. J. McNerney and The McNerney
Company, of Muskogee, and on the proceeds of such
paving bonds, when sold. In the latter part of the year
a considerable amount of such bonds were turned over
to the Oklahoma Trust Company, which was engaged
in the banking business at Muskogee, with its depositors
guaranteed under your state law, and that company afterwards sold, these bonds and used the proceeds in paying
its depositors. The amount thus used, and to which
my client was entitled, was $88,002.31.
"Of the amount. stated, $63,11.7.85, or about that
amount was thus misapplied in defiance of an injunction
of the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma made in cause Eq. No. 1239, W. S.
Farish v. P. J. McNerney et al., pending at Muskogee,
by which injunction the Oklahoma Trust Company was
restrained from commingling or confusing the proceeds
of said paving bonds with other funds, and was peremptorily required to keep the same separate and
apart.
"My client contends that when the trust fund was
wrongfully taken and applied to the payment of depositors, who were guaranteed under the State law, he,
Farish, became subrogated to the rights of such depositors,
and is entitled to resort to the depositors' guaranty fund,
and to have you make such assessments as may be necessary to replenish said fund, if it is depleted or from any
cause is inadequate to meet thisdemand.
"If you desire further particulars of the claim, I shall
be glad.to furnish them, but hardly consider it necessary

FARISH v. STATE BANKING BOARD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

at this time, as, if I am correctly informed, you already
have full knowledge of the matter.
"Please consider this as a formal demand for payment,
and let me have your decision as soon as possible.
"Yours very truly,
(Signed) "A. L. Beatty,
"Attorney for W. S. Farish."
No particularization of the allegations of the answer
of the Banking Board is necessary except to say in explanation of its attitude that it admitted that the Bank
Commissioner took possession on the twenty-fifth of
August, 1910, of the Alamo State Bank and of its property and assets and sold and transferred them to the
Union State Bank in pursuance of an order of sale of the
District Court of Muskogee County, State of Oklahoma.
The sale, it is alleged, was in pursuance of an agreement
whereby the bank assumed and agreed to pay the deposits
owing by the Alamo State Bank amounting to the sum
of $450,000, and the Bank Commissioner and the Banking Board agreed to guarantee the solvency of the assets
of the Alamo State Bank to the extent and for a sufficient
amount to pay all of the deposits assumed by the Union
State Bank and to protect it against loss. On August 25,
1910, in pursuance of the agreement the Banking Board
advanced to the Union State Bank the sum of $50,000
and has since from time to time advanced to the bank
the additional sum of $150,000. These payments were
made in the course of the liquidation of the assets of the
Alamo State Bank and in discharge of the obligations
assumed by it to pay the deposits of the Oklahoma Trust
Company.
It is further alleged that under the law the State of
Oklahoma, for the benefit of the Depositors' .Guaranty
Fund, has a first lien on the assets of the Oklahoma Trust
Company and the Alamo State Bank for the reimbursement of the sum to the Union State Bank in the payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion-of the Court.

235 U. S.

of the deposits assumed by it. That the lien of the State
'is superior to any lien claimed by complainant under and
by virtue of the assignments of the paving bonds under
the contract set forth in the first paragraph of the bill,
and the Banking Board has a right under the law to enforce the lien of the State against the assets transferred
to the Alamo State Bank by the Oklahoma Trust Company and by the former to the Union State Bank.
The answer of the Union State Bank repeated the
allegations of the Banking Board in regard to the transfer
to it of the assets of the Alamo State Bank and alleged
that its purchase of them was in good faith, for a valuable
consideration and without notice of any claim or lien of
complainant or his assignor, the Texas Company, and the
bank became the owner thereof free from any such claim
or lien.
Upon the issues thus formed and upon the proofs presented, the court decreed: (1)-(2) That to secure complainant in the payment of a portion, to-wit, the sums of
$16,530.98 and $20,000, with interest thereon at the rate
of 6% per annum on the first sum from April 18, 1910,
and on the second sum from January 22, 1910, of a certain
decree for money rendered by the court in equity cause
No. 1239 on September 5, 1911, and costs, complainant,
W. S. Farish, has a lien, which is hereby foreclosed against
each and all of the defendants, upon those certain notes
mentioned in paragraphs IX and X of the original bill of
complaint in the cause, and on the proceeds of such of
the notes as have been collected. The notes are described.
(3) That complainant recover from the Union State Bank
the sum of $18,018.58, with interest at 6% per anrium from
August 25, 1911, the net amount, when paid, to apply as
a credit on the decree in equity cause No. 1239. (4) That
if the last mentioned amount be not paid within ten days,
execution shall issue therefor, and if the defendants, including the Banking Board and the Bank Commissioner

FARISH v. STATE BANKING BOARD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or his successor, fail to pay the amounts adjudged against
the securities, then the securities, or such of them as remain unpaid, shall be sold to satisfy the amounts so adjudged against them. A special master was appointed
to make the sale. (5) The complainant "was a depositor
of the defendant, Oklahoma Trust Company, within the
meaning of the laws of the State of Oklahoma governing
the guaranteed payment of bank deposits, to the extent
of $25,357.63, on the third day of January, 1910, but
because it is the opinion of the court that the State Banking Board represents the State, and is not suable on such
account, said complainant shall take nothing as against
said banking board, ard in that behalf the latter shall
go hence without day." (6) "That the decree pro confesso heretofore entered against the defendants, Oklahoma Trust Company, Alamo State Bank, The McNerney
Company, and P. J. McNerney, is hereby made final, and,
as to said defendants, the complainant is adjudged fully
subrogated to the rights of depositors of said Oklahoma
Trust Company, not only to the amount of the aforesaid
sum of $25,357.63, but also as to any deficiency that may
remain after he shall have collected the amount in this
decree awarded against said Union State Bank and such
amounts as may be realized on the securities mentioned
in the first and second paragraphs hereof, which is to say,
it is hereby adjudged that in addition to said $25,357.63,
funds amounting to $61,252.40, on which the complainant
had a lien, and to which he was entitled, were, on the
third day of January, 1910, wrongfully used by said Oklahoma Trust Company and said Alamo State Bank. at the
instance, request and demand of the Bank Commissioner
representing said State Banking Board, to accomplish
the payment of depositors of said Oklahoma Trust Company, and therefore the complainant is fully subrogated
to all rights of such depositors; but, because it is the opinion of the court that said State Banking Board represents

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

the State and is not suable on such account, said complainant shall take nothing as against said banking board,.
and in that behalf the latter shall go hence without
day."
It is contended by appellant in No. 446 that "the Banking Board does not represent the State of Oklahoma in any
true governmental capacity and therefore is not within
the exemption from suit contained in the Eleventh Amendment."
It is further contended, "But even if the Banking Board
did represent the State it could not successfully claim here
an exemption from suit since it owes the appellant a specific statutory duty."
These contentions are the same as those made in Lankford, Com'r, v. Platte Iron Works Company, ante, p. 461,
and American Water Softener Company v. Lankford, ante,
p. 496, and are disposed of by the decisions in those cases.
It was there held that the Banking Board and Bank Commissioner were not subject to suit by depositors of insolvent banks. Therefore, as a depositor, subrogated or
direct, of the Oklahoma Trust Company, Farish has no
right of suit against the Banking Board.
It willbe observed from the decree of the court two
sums, to-wit, $16,530.98 and $20,000, with interest on
each, were, in accordance with the judgment rendered "in
equity cause No. 1239," declared a lien on certain securities, the lien foreclosed and the securities ordered to be
sold.
The court also rendered a judgment against the Union
State Bank for the sum of $18,018.58, above mentioned
as coming under the decree in cause No. 1239, and which
when paid with the interest thereon was to be applied as
a credit on that decree. In other words such sum was
decreed as part of a fund which the court said in its opinion
"equitably belonged to the complainant," Farish. Of this
part of the decree appellant makes no complaint.

FARISH v. STATE BANKING BOARD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court further decreed (5) that" complainant [appellant] was a depositor of the Oklahoma Trust Company,
within the meaning of the laws of the State of Oklahoma,
governing the guaranteed payment of bank deposits to the
extent of $25,357.63, on the 3d day of January, 1910." And
(6) "that in addition to said $25,357.63, funds amounting
to $61,252.40 on which complainant had a lien and to which
he was entitled, were on the 3d day of JAnuary, 1910, [the
day when the Alamo State Bank acquired the assets of the
Oklahoma Trust Company] wrongfully used by said Oklahoma Trust Company and said Alamo State Bank, at the
instance, request and demand of the Bank Commissioner
representing said Banking Board to accomplish the payment of depositors of said Oklahoma Trust Company, and
therefore the complainant is fully subrogated to all rights
of such depositors. . . ." Relief was not granted
against the Banking Board because, as the decree declared,
of the immunity of the Board from suit.
Based on the decree the contention of appellant is that
he was not only a depositor to the extent of the $25,357.63
but also to the extent of the sum of $61,252.40, it having
been used to pay depositors, and he thereby became subrogated to the rights of depositors and "entitled to be
treated as though holding assignments from the various
depositors who were thus paid," and hence the Banking
Board should be required to pay him the first sum and
also so much of the second sum as may not be realized
from the impounded securities or on the decree against
the Union State Bank, and "if necessary "-we quote from
the prayer of his bill-"to make assessments for the payment of any balance of his debt."
The contention of appellant is, therefore, that he has
become a depositor of the Oklahoma Trust Company by
subrogation, his money having been used to pay the depositors of that company; and the court so decreed, carefully distinguishing the rights of complainant against

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

what the court called "impounded collaterals" and the
sum of $18,018.58 which the Union State Bank had received, and his right, ;:to use the language of- the court,
"as a depositor, either directly or by subrogation." It
may be admitted, therefore, that he has the rights of a
depositor, but theright of suit against the Banking Board
is not one of them. See Lankford, Com'r, v. Platte Iron
Works Company and American Water Softener Company v.
Lankford, supra.
It is further contended by appellant that "by participation in the former suit [cause 1239] and interference with
the process of the court the Banking Board waived any
exemption from suit which otherwise it might have
claimed." Gunter v. Atlantic Coast Line, 200 U.:S.- 273,
292, is cited in support of the contention. The case is not
apposite. The case was, it is true, ancillary to another, but
in it the Attorney General of the State appeared, being
directly authorized so to do by statute, and "defend said
action for and on behalf of the State." The State, therefore, consented to be sued. The Oklahoma laws do not
give the State Banking Board such power. Besides, the
judgment in the former suit was that appellant was a depositor of the Oklahoma Trusf Company, a right which
was confirmed in the decree in the present case. In
making this comment we assume but do not decide
that the Board by employing :counsel to resist the complainant's recovery in cause No. 1239 became bound by
its decree.
And we see no reason for disturbing the decree in other
particulars, that is, in No. 447. Indeed, there are no briefs
filed in the latter case.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY,

with whom concurred MR. JUS-

TICE DAY, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

LAMAR, dissenting.

and MR.

JUSTICE

UNITED STATES v. ERIE RAILROAD.
235 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

In No. 446,-the appeal of Farish, the depositor-for
reasons expressed in the dissenting opinion in Lankford v.
Platte Iron Works Company, this day decided, ante, p. 461,
it seems to me that the decree here under review should
be reversed.
In No. 447,-the cross-appeal-I concur in the result
reached by the court.

UNITED STATES v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN

No. 552.

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued December 14, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Qucere, whether-ยง 184, Penal Code, prohibiting the carriage of letters
or packets otherwise than in the mail by carriers on post routes, except under certain specified conditions, is penal or remedial, or

whether it is to have a liberal or strict construction.
Letters of officers of the carrier, a railroad company, to officers of the
telegraph company with which it has a contract and in whose business it participates, relating to immediate and day by day action, is

current, as distinguished from exceptional, business and falls within
the permitted exceptions of ยง 184, Penal Code.
THE facts, which involve the construction of ยง 184 of
the Penal Code of the United States, prohibiting, except
under specified conditions, the carriage of letters and
packets otherwise than in the mails, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace, with whom
The Solicitor General was on the brief, for the United
States:
Section 184 is a revenue statute and should be liberally
voL. CCXXXV-33

