OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

235 U. S.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. LOUISVILLE &
NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COMMERCE COURT.
No. 39.

Argued February 24, 25, 1913.-Decided December 7, 1914.

The very purpose for which the Interstate Commerce Commission was
created was to bring into existence a body which from its peculiar

character would be most fitted to primarily decide whether from
facts, disputed or undisputed, in a given case preference or discrimination existed.
Where the evidence is undisputed and shows a discrimination between
localities, a finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission that
such discrimination is undue is a finding of fact which is not subject
to review by the Commerce Court.
Qucvre, and not now decided, whether the method adopted by the Interstate Commerce Commission of considering, and basing its opinion
upon, matter gathered in its general investigations regarding the
subject-matter in controversy, but not produced upon the particular
proceeding against particular carriers in which an order is made requiring them to desist from practices complained of in that proceeding, amounts to a denial of a hearing and results in want of due
process of law.
After the amendment to § 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act by the
act of June 18, 1910, the authority of the carriers to primarily determine for themselves the propriety of charging a higher rate for a
shorter than for a longer distance ceased to exist and was taken from
them and primarily vested in the Commission.
In this case the rates and allowances involved and the grain reshipping
privilege at Nashville are governed by § 4 of the act. Intermountain
Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476.
The application of the principle of public policy embodied in § 4 of the
Interstate Commerce Act is to be determined by the substance of
things and not by names; otherwise the statute would be wholly inefficacious.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Commerce Court to review orders of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, are stated in the opinion.
THE

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
235 U. S.

315

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Solicitor General Bullitt for the United States:
The finding of the Interstate Commerce Commission
that the reshipping privilege constituted an undue preference in favor of Nashville had substantial evidence to
support it; is a finding of fact; and is not open to reexamination.
There is substantial evidence to support the finding that
the practice unduly prefers Nashville over Atlanta and
other Georgia towns.
The Commission's finding that an undue preference
exists is a finding of fact, not of law, and therefore is cop,clusive here. Balt. & Ohio R. R. v. United States, 215
U. S. 481; Int. Com. Com. v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S.
452; Int. Com. Com. v. D., L. & W. R. R., 220 U. S. 235;
Int. Com. Com. v. C., R. I. & P. Ry., 218 U. S. 88; Int.
Com. Com. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88.
The theory of the Commerce Court would practically
destroy the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Where the facts are undisputed it is essentially one of
the functions of the Interstate Commerce Commission to
determine what is the correct order to make, and its conclusion is binding unless based on some mistake of law.
The preference given to Nashville over Atlanta and
other Georgia towns cannot be justified by the alleged
fact that the reshipping privilege was originally granted
to meet water competition or that such water competition
still exists.
The evidence is by no means undisputed that the reshipping privilege was originally installed to meet the
water competition.
The mere fact that the railroads may have been justified
in 1872 in granting Nashville a reshipping privilege is absolutely no evidence that it is now lawful. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S.56; L. & N. R. R. v.
Motiley, 219 U. S.467.
The mere potentiality of water competition does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.

235 U. S.

justify a preferential regulation or practice. The water
competition which will justify a preference must be actual
and substantial; not merely conjectural. Int. Com. Com.
v. Louis. & Nqsh. R. R., 190 U. S.- 273, 282; Louis. &
Nash. R. R. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648, 673.
Assuming, however, that the river competition is controlling to-day, that fact does not give the carrier a right
to meet such competition by means of the reshipping privilege where, as here, a non-preferential though less profitable means was open to the. carrier. E. T., V. & G. R. R.
v. Int. Com. Com., 181 U. S. 1, 18; Int. Com. Com. v.
Alabama Midland Ry., 168 U. S. 144, 167; Louis. & Nash.
R. R. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648, 673.
Water competition to an intermediate point in a through
journey does not justify any preference for any portion
of the journey except between the competitive points.
The ruling of the Commission was inherently correct.
Mr. Charles W. Needham for the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. William A. Wimbish for Duncan & Co., et al.
Mr. Albert S. Brandeis, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone
was on the brief, for Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co.:
The order of the Conunission of the- ninth day of June,
1911, should be annulled and set aside, because it was
based upon a consideration of evidence, matters, and
things not found in the record or introduced at the hear-

ings.
The reshipping privilege at. Nashville having been compelled by the controlling influence of the competition of
Cumberland River, which does not exist at the Georgia
points, the advantage and preference thereby given Nashville are not undue and the discrimination is not unjust.
There is no undue discrimination in maintaining the

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
235 U. S.

317

Argument for Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.

reshipping practice at Nashville, because it is compelled
and justified by circumstances and conditions prevailing
there which do not prevail elsewhere in the southeast.
It is not within the province of the Commission to overcome the natural advantages which Nashville, owing to
its geographical situation and water transportation, has
over Atlanta and the other complaining points with respect to'grain movements into the southeastern territory.
There was no valid basis for the Commission's order and
the same should be set aside and annulled as wholly beyond
its powers.
The order of the Commission is void on its face, because
it necessarily results in a discrimination against Nashville
in comparison with Ohio River crossings.
In support of these contentions, see Ashland Brick Co.
v. Southern Ry., 22 I. C. C. 115, 121; Brewer v. C. G.W.
Ry., 84 Fed. Rep. 268; Bultie Milling Co. v. C. & A. R., 15
I. C. C. 351; Chattanoogav. Southern Ry., 10 I. C. C. 134;
Duncan v. N. C. & St. L. Ry., 16 I. C. C. 590; Duncan &
Co. v. N. C. & St. L. Ry., 21 I* C'. C. 186, 193; E. Tenn. V.
& G. Ry. v. Int. Com. Com., 181 U. S. 1, 12; Enterp se
Mfg. Co. v. Georgia R. R., 12 I. C. C. 451; In re Substitution of Tonnage, 18 I. C. C. 280; Int. Com. Com. v. Un.
Pac. R. R., 222 U. S. 541; Int. Com. Com. v. Louis. &
Nash. R. R. (decided Jan. 20, 1913); Int. Com. Com. v.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Int. Com. Com. v. Ala. Mid.
R. R., 168 U. S. 141, 171, 175; Int. Com. Com. v. Balt. &
Ohio R. R., 43 Fed. Rep. 37; Int. Com. Com. v. Chicago
G. W. Ry., 209 U. S. 108, 118; Int. Com. Com. v. C., R. I.
& P. Ry., 218 U. S. 88, 102; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v.
Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648; Lake Cargo Coal Case, 22 I. C.
C. 604, 612, 613; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. United States,
197 Fed. Rep. 58; Minneapolis v. G. Nor. Ry., 4 I. C. C.
230; Peavy & Co. v. Int. Com. Com., 176 Fed. Rep. 409;
Quimby v. Maine Central R. R., 13 I. C. C. 246; Spokane v. Nor. Pac. R. R., 21 I. C. C. 400; squire v. Mich.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Cent. R. R., 4 I. C. C. 515; Traffic Bureau of St. Louis
v. C., B. & Q. R. R., 14 I. C. C. 317, 331, 510.
Mr. K. T. McConnico, with whom Mr. John A. Pitts
and Mr. Lee Douglas were on the brief, for the Nashville
Grain Exchange and the Nashville Board of Trade.
Mr. Merrel P. Callaway and Mr. R. Walton Moore filed
a brief for the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case involves a controversy as to the legality of a
reshipping privilege permitted at Nashville by the carriers
who are parties to the record, described by the court below
as follows:
"On grain, grain products, and hay shipped to Nashville
by rail from or through Ohio or Mississippi River crossing
points such as Louisville, Evansville, Hickman, Paducah,
Cairo, etc., the L. & N. and N. C. & St. L. charge the full
local freight rate from said crossing. points to Nashville.
These shipments may then be stopped at Nashville for a
period not exceeding six months, during which time they
may be rebilled or reshipped to destinations in southeastern and Carolina territory; and on such reshipments
so rebilled the freight charges into and out of Nashville
are readjusted so that the total transportation charge on
any one shipment from any given Ohio or Mississippi River
crossing, via Nashville, to any given destination in said
territory, shall exactly correspond with the transportation
charge legally assessable on that shipment had it been
billed and moved through from its point of origin at the
said Ohio or Mississippi River crossing points to .its final
destination without having been stopped in transit at
Nashville."

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.

319

Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

We adopt the history of the litigation in so far as it relates to the privilege in question contained in the brief on
the part of the United States.
"1. In 1908 certain Georgia grain dealers complained
to the Interstate Commerce Commission of various traffic
practices at Nashville; after taking voluminous proof, the
Commission, on June 24, 1909, held the reshipping privilege illegal and ordered it stopped. (16 I. C. C. 590, 595).
"2. The Commission, on its own motion, postponed the
effective date of the order, so that it might institute a
country-wide investigation of the practices involved; and
on May 3, 1910, the Commission, after a hearing at which
about 150 shippers and carriers were represented by counsel, reported that its former order abolishing the reshipping
privilege in toto was too strict, and remitted the matter
to the carriers and shippers to frame regulations that would
prevent any rebating under the privilege (18 I. C. C. 280)
and, pursuant thereto, new and satisfactory regulations
were adopted to safeguard the reshipping privilege (21
I. C. C. 183, 188).
The previous order of June 24, 1909, which had abolished
the reshipping privilege at Nashville was vacated and the
Commission thereafter again considered the controversy
between the grain dealers of Georgia and the Nashville
dealers and carriers.
"3.

.

.

.

On June 9, 1911, the Commission de-

livered a Supplemental Report, holding that the action
of the carriers in granting the reshipping privilege to Nashville, while refusing it to Atlanta, etc., was an undue and
unreasonable preference to Nashville, in violation of section 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act. (21 I. C. C. 186.)
The Commission entered an order in accordance therewith.
"4. The Nashville Board of Trade, the L. & N. R. R.
Co., and the N. C. & St. L. R. R. Co. thereupon sued in
the Commerce Court to enjoin the enforcement of the
order; the two suits were consolidated." The record evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

dence before the Commission was introduced and some
additional testimony was taken.
The Commerce Court, finding that there was no conflicting or disputed evidence concerning the origin and
character of the reshipping privilege, concluded that
whether such privilege was an undue preference was not
a matter of fact but a question of law upon which it was
its duty to reach an independent conclusion. The court,
therefore, among other considerations because the privilege was of long standing and was justified by water competition at Nashville, declared it to be not unlawful and
not preferential. A peremptory injunction was allowed
restraining the enforcement of the order of the Commission. And the correctness of this action is the question
here for decision.
In view of the doctrine announced in Interstate Com.
Com. v. Illinois Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452; Interstate Com.
Com. v. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235; Interstate
Com. Com. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 227 U. S. 88, it
plainly results that the court below, in substituting its
judgment as to the existence of preference for that of the
Commission on the ground that where there was no dispute
as to the facts it had a right to do so, obviously exerted an
authority not conferred upon it by the statute. It is not
disputable that from the beginning the very purpose for
which the Commission was created was to bring into existence a body which from its peculiar character would be
most fitted to primarily decide whether from facts, disputed or undisputed, in a given case preference or discrimination existed. East Tenn. &c. Ry. Co. v. Interstate
Com. Com., 181 U. S. 1, 23-29. And the amendments by
which it came to pass that the findings of the Commission
were made not merely prima facie but conclusively correct
in case of judicial review, except to the extent pointed out
in the Illinois Central and other cases, supra, show the
progressive evolution of the legislative purpose and the

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
235 U. S.

321

Opinion of the Court.

inevitable conflict which exists between giving that purpose effect and upholding the view of the statute taken
by the court below. It cannot be otherwise since if the
view of the statute upheld below be sustained, the Commission would become but a mere instrument for the purpose of taking testimony to be submitted to the courts for
their ultimate action.
While these conclusions demonstrate the error in the
action of the court below, that result does not authorize us
to reverse and give effect to the order of the Commission
without going further, since it must be determined whether
the action of the Commission was repugnant to the Constitution, in excess of the powers whih that body possessed, or,, what is equivalent thereto, was wholly unsustained by proof,--questions which the court below failed
to pass upon because of the erroneous conception in which
it indulged concerning its own powers. But if it were
essential for us to consider these questions we should be
confronted with a grave situation arising from the serious
doubt which would exist whether it would be possible for
us to do so in view of the manner in which the Commission had discharged its functions, and whether that method
had not in and of itself amounted to a denial of a hearing
and thus resulted in want of due process of law. See InterState Com. Com. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., supra, at
p. 91, and the paragraph from the answer of the Commission filed in the court below which is in the margin. 1
1 "That in said investigation and in arriving at its decision therein
this respondent, as in duty bound under the law, weighed and considered all the facts and arguments presented by the petitioners herein, by
other carriers, and all other parties to said proceeding; that in forming
its opinion and arriving at its conclusions this respondent, exercising
its administrative functions and powers, considered all pertinent facts
and matters set forth in many reports and statistics on file with said
respondent, together with other facts coming to the knowledge of this
respondent in the performance of its duties and functions prescribed
and set forth in the act to regulate commerce and the amendments

VOL. ccxxxv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

We pass this subject by, however, because its consideration is not essential to determine whether the
Commission was right in prohibiting a continuance of the
rebilling privi!ege, since we are of opinion that even if the
allowance of such rebilling privilege when originally made
was authorized by the statute and was therefore not a
preference, the right to continue it had been expressly
prohibited by statute until on application made to the
Commission its consent to that end was given. The express or implied statutory recognition of the authority on
the part of carriers to primarily determine for. themselves
the existence of substantially similar circumstances and
conditions as a basis of charging a higher rate for a shorter
than for a longer distance within the purview of § 4 of
the Act to Regulate Commerce and the right to make
a rate accordingly to continue in force until on complaint
it was corrected in the manner pointed out by statute,
ceased to exist after the adoption of the amendment to
thereto pertaining to the privileges of rebilling and reshipping; that
from said reports and tariffs it appears that said rebilling and reshipping
privileges exist at many interior points where no water competition
obtains; it is therefore not competent, nor is it relevant, for said petitioners to allege that any particular fact or facts before this respondent
in said proceeding were uncontradicted or conclusive in favor of the
petitioners' contention; nor can the petitioners by judicial proceedings
ascertain each and all the facts, circumstances, and conditions in regard
to said transportation that were necessarily and properly considered by
and which aided this respondent in arriving at its conclusion that said
practice of rebilling and reshipping said products from Nashville was
unduly and unreasonably discriminatory.
"This respondent denies that there is, or can be, under the law, any
complete record of all the evidence, facts, and circumstances before the
Commission in determining that this, or any other practice by carriers,
is unduly and unjustly discriminatory as between localities or persons,
and respondent is'advised and so alleges that the determination of said
question, as to whether said admitted discrimination is undue and contrary to the provisions of said act to regulate commerce, is one wholly
and exclusively within the jurisdiction of this respondent."

UNITED STATES v. LOUIS.. & NASH. R. R.
235 U. S.

323

Opinion of the Court.

§ 4 by the act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 547.
This results from the fact that by the amendment in
question the original power to determine the existence of
the conditions justifying the greater charge for a shorter
than was exacted for a longer distance, was taken from the
carriers and primarily vested in the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and for the purpose of making the prohibitions efficacious it was enacted that after a time fixed no
existing rate of the character provided for should continue in force unless the application to sanction it had
been made and granted. Intermountain Rate Cases, 234
U. S. 476. If then it be that the rebilling privilege which
is here in question, disregarding immaterial considerations
of form and looking at the substance of things, was, when
originally established, an exertion of the authority conferred or recognized by § 4 of the act, as there is no pretense that permission for its continuance had been applied
for as required by the amendment and the statutory
period for which it could be lawfully continued without
such permission had expired, it follows that its continued
operation was manifestly unlawful and error was committed in permitting its continuance under the shelter of
the injunction awarded by the court below. To determine
whether § 4 is applicable requires a very brief consideration of the uncontroverted situation from which the rebilling privilege arose and upon the existence of which it
depended. It is undoubted that for many years the
Ohio River was a basing point for rates, and traffic moving
from the producing regions of the northwest to the consuming regions in the southeast bore rates from Ohio
River points to destination which because of competition
were lower from Ohio River points to the farther points
of consumption than were charged from intermediate
(nearer) points between the Ohio River and such points of
consumption. This lesser charge for the longer than for
the shorter distance as to the traffic in question was

324

OCTOBER TERM,, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U,S.

typically illustrative of the condition contemplated by
§ 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce. As to Nashville,
however, this idiosyncracy arose: The carriers from the
Ohio River to Nashville instead of giving the lesser rate
for the longer distance from the Ohio River to Nashville
than. was asked for intermediate points, maintained a
local and proportionate rate for, grain and other northwestern products from the Ohio River to Nashville,
although giving a lower rate for the longer haul from the
Ohio River to points in the south or southeast territory
beyond Nashville Upon the basis, however, that there
was water competition between the Ohio River and
Nashville if not for other reasons, as to which we think it is
not relevant to inquire, there was granted by the carriers
'to shippers of grain at Nashville the rebilling privilege
which we have at the outset described. That is to say,
shippers of grain at Nashville on establishing the receipt
at Nashville of grain from Ohio River points equal in
quantity to -grain proposed to be shipped, received an
,allowance on the local rate from Nashville to the pbint of
destination which made the rate on the shipment equivalent to wIat it would have been had the grain originally
moved frorA the Ohio River point to its ultimate point of
destmatoi1 and not stopped at Nashville at all. We quote
a clear illustration of the operation of the privilege taken
from the argument at bar of one of the carriers:
"For example, the local rate on grain from Evausville,'
on the Ohio River, to Nashville, is 10 cents per ,100
pounds, and the local rate from Nashville to Atlanta is
17 cents per 100 pounds. The joint rate from'Evansville
to Atlanta is 24 cents per 100 pounds, or 3 cents less than
the sum of the Jocals. Under the reshipping practice the
joint rate of 24 cents is protected when the shipment has
been stopped in transit at Nashville. The local, rate of
10 cents from Evansville to Nashville haVing been'pid
at the time of the shipment into Nashville,'an adjustment,

UNITED STATES
235 U, S.

P. LOUIS.

& NASH. It. It.

306

Opinion of the Court.

of the total transportation charge is made when the
reshipment to Atlanta occurs, so that the shipper in the
end pays upon the shipment the joint rate instead of the
combination of local rates into and out of Nashville."
When the result of this allowance is understood
there
seems to be no room for serious controversy that the
right to continue the privilege is controlled by § 4 of the
act. The actual shipment from Nashville must either be
considered as a movement from Nashville, irrespective
of the rate which would have been applicable on a through
shipment from an Ohio River point to the same point of
destination, or it must be treated by a fiction as one
moving from an Ohio River point to the same destination.
If the first, then clearly the allowance made of a rate from
Nashville to the point of destination was a lesser charge
for the longer distance hauled as to such grain than was
charged for the shorter distance as to any other grain
moving from Nashville to intermediate points or from
such points to places further on and came clearly within
the grasp of § 4. If on the other hand it be imagined to
be a shipment from the Ohio River crossing to the point of
destination upon the theory that the traffic before stoppage
at Nashville originated at the Ohio River point, then
exactly the same conditions would be reproduced, since
the charge as the result of the reduction made was the
equivalent of a lesser rate for the longer than for the
shorter distance, which, as we have stated, was the prevailing system from Ohio River crossings to points of
destination in the southeast.
It is true that in argument it was said that the question
here is whether there was a preference or discrimination
under §§ 2 and 3 of the act and not an inquiry under
§ 4 and that a distinction between the various sections
has been recognized. It has, indeed, been held that the
provisions of §§ 2, 3 and 4 of the act being in pan' materia
required harmonious construction and therefore they

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 US.

should not be applied so that one section destroyed the
others and consequently that a lesser charge for a longer
than for a shorter distance permitted by § 4 could not for
such reason be held to be either a preference or discrimination under §§ 2 or 3. Louisville & Nashville R. R. v.
Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648; East Tenn. &c. Ry. v. Interstate Com. Com., 181 U. S. 1. But the rule which requires
that a practice which is permitted by one section should
not be prohibited upon the theory that it is forbidden by
another gives no support to the unwarranted assumption
that that may be permitted which is devoid of all sanction
and indeed is in direct conflict with all three of the sections,-a result clearly arising in the case before us in
consequence of the amendment of § 4. Indeed when the
evil which it may be assumed conduced to the adoption
of the amendment of § 4 and the remedy which that
amendment was intended to make effective are taken into
view (see Intermountain Rate Cases, supra), it would
seem that the case before us cogently demonstrates the
applicability of the amendment to the situation. And it
needs no argument to demonstrate that the application of
the principle of public policy which the statute embodies
is to be determined by the substance of things and not
by names, for if that were not the case the provisions of
the statute would be wholly inefficacious, as names would
readily be devised to accomplish such a purpose.
It follows from what we have said that the court below
was wrong in enjoining the order of the Commission and
on the contrary should have dismissed the complaint. The
case will therefore be appropriately remanded to enable a
decree to that effect to be entered, without prejudice, however, to the right of the carriers to apply to the Commission to be relieved from the operation of the provisions of §4
of the Interstate Commerce Act if they are so advised.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in the result.

