WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

Under the facts of the case it is unnecessary to consider whether the period of prescription began to run
when plaintiff first had knowledge of the alleged wrongful
acts of Hollander, or only when he had knowledge of
the damage consequent thereon. Upon this point, therefore, we express no opinion.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WESTERN LIFE INDEMNITY COMPANY OF
ILLINOIS v. RUPP.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 50.

Submitted November 5, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

A State may prescribe that a voluntary special appearance in one of
its courts, even for the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction, shall
be deemed a general appearance, without violating the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In the Federal courts a defendant may appear specially to insist upon
the illegality of service, and if overruled does not waive his objections by answering to the merits, Davidson Marble Co. v. Gibson,
213 U. S. 10, but the States may, as.Kentucky has, establish a different rule, and nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment prevents
them from so doing.
The due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment has regard
not to matters of form but to substance of right.
While there is a rule in Kentucky that appearance in the appellate
court operates as a submission to the jurisdiction so as to dispense
with service of process, the rights of the defendant in a case where
plaintiff appeals are safeguarded by his right to a c, -ss-appeal on
this or any other objection.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

235 U. S.

While a non-resident, against whom a personal action is instituted in a
state court without personal service within the jurisdiction, may
ignore the proceeding as wholly ineffective and set up its invalidity
when an attempt is made to take his property thereunder, if he
wishes to contest the validity of the proceeding in advance in the
courts of the State he must enter the courts subject to the rules as
to submitting to the jurisdiction.
It. is not unreasonable for a State to prescribe such rules of procedure
in regard to special appearances in its courts as will prevent a defendant from attempting to obtain a binding adjudication on the
merits in his favor through the exercise of the court's jurisdiction,
while depriving the plaintiff of the possibility of success by reserving
an objection to the jurisdiction of the court.
Where, in a state court, the validity of an act of the legislature of another State is not in question, and the controversy turns merely
upon its interpretation or construction, no question arises under the
full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution.
The Kentucky court, having recognized the existence, validity and
relevancy of a statute of Illinois prohibiting an insurance company
from issuing a policy of insurance upon a life in which the beneficiary has no insurable interest, but having, in the absence of any
decision of the courts of Illinois placing a different construction
thereon, construed the statute as not having any extra-territorial
effect or any application to business done in Kentucky, there was no
refusal to give the Illinois statute the full faith and credit required
by the Federal Constitution.
If a party setting up a statute of one State in a court of another State
intends to rely upon an authoritative judicial construction of the
statute in the State of its origin, it is incumbent upon him to prove
it as a matter of fact.
The rule that what is matter of fact in the state court is matter of fact
in this court upon review, applies where foreign law is in question
in the state court as well as to any other issue of fact.
If the state court has not denied full faith and credit to the statute of
another State, this court has not jurisdiction to determine whether
the interpretation given to such statute is or is not erroneous.
147 Kentucky, 489, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
based on substituted service, and the validity under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the practice of the Kentucky
courts in regard to special appearances and also ques-

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP.
235 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tions arising under the full faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constituion, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry Burnett, Mr. Pendleton Beckley, Mr. H. W.
Batson, Mr. Graddy Cary, Mr. Thomas J. Graydon and
Mr. John M. Scott for plaintiff in error:
A foreign insurance company sued in a state court of
Kentucky cannot lawfully be summoned by a substituted
service on the State Insurance Commissioner, unless it
has been licensed to do business in the State, and has
assented to such substituted service. § 631, Ky. Stats.;
Hunter v. Mutual Ins. Co., 218 U. S.573; Mutual Ins. Co.
v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147.
Illegality in the service of process by which jurisdiction
is to be obtained, is not waived by the special appearance
of the defendant to move that the service be set aside;
nor after such motion is denied, by his answering to the
merits. Such illegality is considered as waived, only when
he, without having insisted upon it, pleads in the first
instance to the merits. Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S.476.
A corporation doing business in a foreign State can
exercise in that State only such powers as are granted to
it by the laws of the State in which it is organized. Story
on Conflict of Laws, 175 (note); 3 Clark & Marshall
on Priv. Corp., § 840; 5 Thompson on Corps., 2d Ed.,
§ 6627; Canada Southern Ry. v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527;
Pierce v. Crompton, 13 R. I. 312; Harris Lumber Co. v.
Coffin, 179 Fed. Rep. 257; Scott v. Stockholders Oil Co.,
142 Fed. Rep. 287; Bucki Lumber Co. v. Atlantic Lumber
Co., 128 Fed. Rep. 332; Michigan*State Bank v. Gardner,
15 Gray, 362; Rue v. Mo. Pac. Ry., 8 S.W. Rep. 533;
Manhattan Life Ins. Co. v. Field, 26 S. W. Rep. 280;
Oregon Railway v. Oregonian Ry., 130 U. S. 1; State v.
Southern Pac. Co., 28 So. Rep. 372; Nathan v. Lee, 52
987; Thomas v. RailroadCo., 101 U. S.71.
E. Rep.
N.The
present
constitution of the State of Illinois, adopted

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

235 U. S.

in 1870, provides that no corporation shall be created
by special laws. Art. 11, § 1; Chicago Traction Co. v.
Chicago, 199 Illinois, 484.
The restrictions placed upon a corporation organized
in the State of Illinois follow the corporation into every
State in which it attempts to transact business. Section 9,
Illinois Assessment Ins. Co. Act, appr'd, June 22, 1893;
Story on Conflict of Laws, p. 175 (note); 3 Clark & Marshall, Priv. Corps., § 840; Pierce v. Crompton, 13 R. I. 312;
State v. So. Pacific Co., 28 So. Rep. 372.
Assessment life insurance companies alone are prohibited by the statutes of Illinois from issuing policies in
favor of a beneficiary who has no insurable interest in the
life of the insured. Section 9, supra; 1 Cooley's Briefs on
Insurance, pp. 245-252; Bloomington Mutual Assn. v.
Blue, i20 Illinois, 121.
The appellant company is not estopped from pleading
that the contract of insurance herein was ultra vires.
Mutual Ins. Co. v. Barker, 107 Iowa, 143; National
Building Association v. Home Savings Bank, 181 Illinois,'
35; Central Trans. Co. v. Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S. 24;
Seattle Gas Co. v. Citizens Light Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 588;
State v. Tobacco Co., 75 S. W. Rep. 737; Relph v. Rundle,
103 U. S. 226; Blitz v. Bank of Kentucky, 21 Ky. Law Rep.
1554; Murphy v. Louisville, 9 Bush (Ky.), 189; Jessamine
County v. Newcomb Buchanan Co., 8 Ky. Law Rep. 692;
Bell & Coggeshall v. Kentucky Glass Works, 20 Ky. Law
Rep. 1089; Georgetown Water Co. v. Central ThompsonHouston Co., 17 Ky. Law Rep. 1270; Green v. Middlesborough Town Co., 89 S. W. Rep. 229.
Mr. J. M. Chilton, Mr. James P. Edwards, Mr. Charles
F. Ogden and Mr. R. F. Peak for defendant in error:
The affidavits filed on motion to quash the summons
were not made a part of the record by order of court or
bill of exceptions. The sufficiency of the summons and

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP.
235 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

return were questions of fact and the affidavits filed on the
motion to quash not having been made a part of the record,
there is nothing in the record disclosing that said affidavits
were all the evidence heard upon the motion. This being
a question of fact cannot be reviewed by the higher courts
unless the record should contain all of the evidence heard.
Skidmore v. Raymond, 144 Kentucky, 303; Runyons v.
Bruchett, 135 Kentucky, 18.
The question as to whether the trial court correctly
overruled the motion to quash the summons having been
raised in the Circuit Court before the first appeal, it is now
concluded by that opinion. It is the law of the case.
Rupp v. Western Life Co., 138 Kentucky, 18; Western Life
Co. v. Rupp, 147 Kentucky, 489; Stewart v. Louis. &
Nash. R. R., 136 Kentucky, 721; Wall &c. v. Demitt, 141
Kentucky, 716; McDowell v. C., 0. & S. W. R. R., 90 Kentucky, 346; 23 Ency. of Law & Proc., p. 1306.
Service on the insurance commissioner is service upon
an insurance company, although the company had ceased
doing business in the State at the time of the service.
Home Benefit Society v. Muehl, 109 Kentucky, 479; Kenton Ins. Co. v. Osborne, 21 Ky. Law Rep. 330.
It was the legislative intention in adopting § 631, that
an insurance company organized in other States should
not come into this State and do business and then leave
the policyholder without redress under the Kentucky law
and the policyholder had the right to assume that the
company had complied with all the laws with respect
thereto. GermaniaIns. Co. v. Ashby, 112 Kentucky, 306.
When a corporate citizen of one State goes into another
State for the purpose of transacting business it may be required to respond personally to such method of service
as the legislature of said State may in its wisdom provide,
so long as the method prescribed by the legislature constitutes due process of law. Schwartz v. Christie Grain
Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 341.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

235 U. S.

The construction placed on a state statute by the highest
judicial tribunal of the State is binding on the Federal
courts, if the service obtained in pursuance to the action
constitutes due process of law or in other words does not
violate the Federal Constitution. Evans v. Willis, 187
U. S. 271; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28;
Cross v. Allen, 141 U. S. 528.
The plaintiff in error entered its appearance by its objection to the motion for judgment and motion to assign
the action for hearing to April 1, 1908, as also by its motion to remand. Royal Wheel Co. v. Dunbar, 25 Ky. Law
Rep. 747; Maysville and Big Sandy R. R. v. Ball, 108 Kentucky, 241; 3 Ency. of Law & Proc. 504.
Sections 631 and 657 of the Kentucky Statutes are a
proper exercise of the legislative authority of the State.
Home Benefit Society v. Muhl, 22 Ky. Law Rep., 1378;
Germania Ins. Co. v. Ashby, 23 Ky. Law Rep. 1654; ,Etna
Ins. Co. v. Commonwealth, 116 Kentucky, 861.
Plaintiff in error having accepted the premium and retained the same until after the death of the insured, it is
now estopped from relying upon the plea of ultra vires.
Albin Co. v. Commonwealth, 128 Kentucky, 295; Underwood v. Newport Lyceum, 5 B. Mon. 129; Bigelow on
Estoppel, 467; 29 Am. & Eng. Ency., 2d ed., ultra
vires, p. 50; Greene-Bryce's Ultra Vires, pp. 721, 729;
Louisville Warehouse Co. v. Stewart, 24 Ky. Law Rep.
934.
The statutes of a State do not have extraterritorial
force; they only regulate the insurance business in that
particular State and cannot be relied upon to defeat a
policy in another State. Washington Life Ins. Co. v.
Glore, 25 Ky. Law Rep. 1327; PrudentialLife Ins. Co. v.
Fusco's Admr., 145 Kentucky, 379; Mutual Life Ins. Co.
v. Cohn, 179 U. S. 262.
No Federal question is presented in this record. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 104.

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

In September, 1907, plaintiff in error, an Illinois corporation organized under the general laws of that State
applicable to life insurance, issued to one George McCormick, a resident of Louisville, Kentucky, two policies, each
insuring his life in the sum of $1,000, for the benefit of his
nephew, Clarence Rupp, if living, otherwise for the benefit
of the executors of the insilred. After the death of the
insured, which occurred in the same year, the present action was brought by Rupp against the Company in the
Jefferson Circuit Court at Louisville. His petition set
forth his relationship to the insured, and beyond this
showed no insurable interest. It averred that the policies
were issued upon McCormick's application, who also paid
the premiums thereon, and this without plaintiff's instance, request or knowledge. The summons was served
upon the Insurance Commissioner of the State. Section
631, Kentucky Statutes, 1909, provides: "Before authority is granted to any foreign insurance company to do business in this State, it must file with the Commissioner a
resolution adopted by its board of directors, consenting
that service of process upon any agent of such company
in this State, or upon the Commissioner of Insurance of
this State, in any action brought or pending in this State,
shall be a valid service upon said company; and if process
is served upon the Commissioner it shall be his duty to
at once send it by mail, addressed to the company at its
principal office."
The defendant Company made a special appearance to
the action and moved the court to quash the return upon
the summons on the ground that it was a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Illinois;
that at the time the policies in question were issued it had
applied to the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of
Kentucky for a license to transact business in that State,

OCTQBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

and in case such license was issued to appoint said Superintendent of Insurance its agent for service of process; that
the application for license was pending for some time, and
that it was during this time that the policies sued on were
issued, but that the application for license was afterwards
rejected by the insurance department of the State; that
the Company never appointed the Superintendent of Insurance its agent for service of process, and never consented that he might be served with or accept such service
on the Company's behalf.
The motion was overruled, and the company thereafter filed an answer in which, without waiving its objection to the jurisdiction of the court over it, but reiterating
that objection, it set up sundry defenses upon the merits,
including an allegation of fraudulent representations in
the application pursuant to which the policies were issued, and a denial that the plaintiff had an insurable interest in McCormick's life. To certain paragraphs of this
answer plaintiff demurred, and the Circuit Court, upon
the ground that this demurrer rendered it proper and
necessary to determine the sufficiency of plaintiff's petition, reviewed that pleading, and reached the conclusion
that by the law of Kentucky the relationship of uncle and
nephew did not constitute an insurable interest, that
one who could not take out a policy because of lack of
interest could not hold it if assigned to him after its issuance, and that the same rule prevented a person from
taking out a policy of insurance upon his own life in favor
of another having no insurable interest. Therefore the
court sustained the demurrer as against the petition, and,
plaintiff having declined to plead further, judgment was
rendered in favor of defendant.
Plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeals, which held
(138 Kentucky, 18) that while according to the law of
Kentucky one who obtains a policy of insurance upon the
life of another must have an insurable interest in that life,

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v.. RUPP.
235 U.'S.

Opinion of the Court.

it is otherwise with respect to a policy taken out by a
person upon his own life, he paying the premium for the
benefit of another having no insurable interest, and that
such a policy is not a wagering transaction but is valid.
The judgment of the Circuit Court was therefore reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings. Thereafter defendant -filed a "second amended answer" in the
Circuit Court, withdrawing by the court's leave "each
and every allegation of the original answer and the first
amended answer herein," and-"without waiving its
plea to the jurisdiction of this court of the person of this
defendant ,in this action"--set up that defendant was a
corporation organized and incorporated under an act of
the Legislature of the State of Illinois approved June 22,
1893, entitled "An Act to- incorporate companies to do
the business of life or accident insurance on the assessment
plan, and to control such companies of this State and of
other States 'doing • business in this State," etc., which
contains in § 9 -the following: "No. corporation doing business of life insurance under this act shall issue a certificate
or policy, upon . . . a life in which the beneficiary
named has no insurable interest. Any assignment of
the policy or certificate to a person having no insurable
interest in the insured life shall render such a policy
or certificate void." It was further averred• that under
this act defendant had no power to issue , any policy.
of insurance upon the life of any person in whioh the
beneficiary named had no insurable interest; that the
plaintiff Rupp was the nephew of the insured McCormick;
that Rupp had no insurable interest by virtue of such
relationship or otherwise in the life of the insured, and
that the polities sued on were null and void. There was
a tender of the amount of the premiums paid and a denial of further liability. The answer invoked the "full
faith and credit" clause of the Federal Constitution,
averring that to compel defendant to pay the policies

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

sued on would be a failure upon the part of the State of.
Kentucky to give full faith and credit to the act of the
Legislature of the State of Illinois.
To this answer plaintiff demurred, and the Circuit
Court sustained the demurrer, with leave to amend the
answer. Defendant declined to further amend, and
elected to rely only upon the answer to which the demurrer had been sustained. Judgment having been
thereupon rendered in favor of plaintiff for the amount
of the two policies with interest, defendant prosecuted
its appeal to the Court of Appeals, and to review the
decision of that court affirming the judgment (147 Kentucky, 489), the present writ of error is sued out.
There are two Federal questions. The first is raised by
the contention that under the Kentucky statute already
quoted a foreign insurance company sued in a state court
car--ot lawfully be summoned by a substituted service
upon the state Insurance Commissioner unless the company has been licensed to do business in the State. and
has by resolution of ita board of directors assented to such
substituted service;, and that to sustain a judgment rendered in the absence of such service is violative of the
"due process" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
To this contention the Court of Appeals responded thus
(147 Kentucky, 489, 490): "It is too late now to raise the
question that the process was not properly served. This
question should have been presented on the first appeal.
On that appeal the case was heard here on the merits, and
it is too late after a reversal on the merits to raise any
question as to the sufficiency of the process." Citing
McDowell v. Chesapeake,. Ohio &c. R. R. Co., 90 Kentucky' 346, and Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Glover, 24.
Ky. Law Rep. 1447, 71 S. W. Rep. 630. That it is and
long has been the practice of the courts of Kentucky to
treat the appearance of a party in the appellate court as a
submission to the jurisdiction so as to dispense with the

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

service of process in the court below, and that this rule
is applied even where a judgment against the defendant
is reversed because of a defect in process, will appear from
an examination of the cases. Grace v. Taylor, 1 Bibb,
430; Graves v. Hughes, 4 Bibb, 84; Wharton v. Clay, 4
Bibb, 167; Bradford v. Gillespie, 8 Dana, 67, 68; Salter
v. Dunn, 64 Kentucky (1 Bush), 311, 317; Chesapeake,
Ohio &c. R. R. Co. v. Heath, 87 Kentucky, 651, 660.
It is contended that where, as here, the first appeal is
prosecuted by plaintiff, the defendant's objection to the
jurisdiction of the trial court over its person is not thereby
waived, because no other question could properly be submitted to the appellate court except that raised by the
plaintiff's appeal. But by § 755 of the Kentucky Civil
Code "The appellee may obtain a cross-appeal, at any
time before trial, by an entry on the records of the Court
of Appeals." And under this section it is held that "When
either party appeals from a -final judgment, his adversary
may have a cross-appeal from that judgment, for the purpose of correcting any errors in the judgment to his prejudice or any interlocutory judgment or order which has influenced or controlled the final, judgment to his prejudice."
Brown v. Vancleave, 86 Kentucky, 381, 386.
The provisions of the Code and the course of previous
decisions fairly sustain the decision of the Court of
Appeals in the present case to the effect that the now
plaintiff in error, by permitting the first judgment to be
reviewed at the instance of the plaintiff in the action
without interposing a cross-appeal to call into question
the decision of the trial court upon the motion to quash
the return upon the process, waived its objection to the
jurisdiction of the court over it, and could not have any
benefit of that objection upon the second appeal.
That a State, without violence to the "due process"
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, may declare that
one who voluntarily enters one of its courts to contest any

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U.S.

question in ari action there pending shall be deemed to
have submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court
for all purpose of the action, and may attach consequences of this character even to a special appearance
entered for the purpose of objecting that the trial court
has not acquired jurisdiction over the person of the defendant, is settled by the decision of thiscourt in York v.
Texas, 137 U. S. 15; followed in Kauffman v. Wootters, 138
U. S. 285.
It is true that in Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476, on review of the judgment of a territorial court, it was held that
the right of the defendant to insist upon an objection to
the illegality of the service of process was not waived by
the special appearance of his counsel to move the dismissal
of the action or the setting aside of the service upon that
ground, nor when that motion was overruled by his
answering to the merits; and that the objection was
available here as a ground for reversal. To the same
effect are the decisions on review of judgments and
decrees of the Federal courts. Southern Pacific Co. v.
Denton, 146 U. S. 202, 206; Mexican Central Ry. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, 209; Goldey v. Morning News, 156
U. S.518; Davis v. C., C., C. & St. Louis Ry., 217 U. S. 157,
174. And a standing rule of a Federal court, requiring
a party appearing specially for any purpose to declare at
the same time that if the purpose for which the special
appearance was made should not be sanctioned or sustained by the court he would appear generally, was held
inconsistent with the laws of the United States and therefore invalid. Davidson Marble Co. v. Gibson, 213 U. S.
10, 18. But the recognition and enforcement of this
right on the part of defendants in the Federal courts is a
matter quite apart from the authority of the States to
establish a different rule of practice within their jurisdictions, as was expressly recognized in York v. Texas, 137
U. S. 15, 17, 20; Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146 U. S.

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP.
235 U. S.

273

Opinion of the Court.

202, 208; Mexican Central Ry. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194,
207; McLaughlin v. Hallowell, 228 U. S. 278, 289.
The Fourteenth Amendment declares that no State
shall "deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law." This prohibition has regard
not to matters of form, but to substance of right. Since
its adoption, whatever was the rule before, a non-resident
party against whom ha personal action is instituted in a
state court without service of process upon him may, if he
please, ignore the proceeding as wholly ineffective, and
set up. its invalidity if and when an attempt is made
to take his property thereunder, or when he is sued
upon it in the same or another jurisdiction. Pennoyer
v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 732, 733; York v. Texas, 137 U. S.
15, 21. But if he desires to raise the question of the
validity of the proceeding in the court in which it is
instituted, so as to avoid even the semblance of a judgment against him, it is within the power of the State to
declare that he shall do this subject to the risk of being
obliged to submit to the jurisdiction of the court to hear
and determine the merits, if the objection raised .to its
jurisdiction over his person shall be overruled. This
prevents a defendant. from doing what plaintiff in error
has attempted to do in the present case, that is, to secure,
if possible, the benefit of a binding adjudication in its
favor upon the merits, through the exercise of the court's
jurisdiction, while depriving its adversary of any possibility of success by reserving an objection to the jurisdiction
of the court to render any judgment against it. As appears
from Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton, and other cases of the
same class* above cited, the distribution of original and
appellate jurisdiction in the Federal courts is sucL as to
sometimes give an advantage of this kind. to defendants;
but it is not indispensable to "due process of law."
The second Federal question is raised by the insistence
of plaintiff in error that the Kentucky Court of Appeals
VOL. ccxxxv-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

failed to give such credit to the Illinois statute as it was
required to give under Art. IV, § 1, of the Constitution of
the United States, and the.Act of Congress passed to carry
it into effect (§ 905, Rev. Stat.).
Upon an examination of the record, we are unable to
.perceive that the Kentucky court failed to accord to the
Illinois statute the credit to which it was entitled under
the Federal system. The court, rejognized the existence
of the statute and its validity, as pleaded by defendant
and as admitted by plaintiff's demurrer. It also recognized the relevancy of the statute to the question in controversy, and either admitted or assumed that it had the
effect of limiting the powers of defendant with respect to
issuing policies of insurance, so far as the terms of the
statute extended. Thereupon it became necessary for the
court in the due performance of its judicial function to
interpret the meaning of the enactment, in order to determine whether it evidenced the purpose of the law-making
body to limit the powers of the corporations with respect
to business conducted beyond the confines of the State of
its origin. So-doing, the court held as follows (147 Kentucky, 490, 491):
"Upon an inspection of the whole act we are satisfied
that the'section above quoted was not intended by the
Legislature of Illinois to have an extra territorial effect.
It was only intended to regulate the business done in
Illinois. The act is a general one.governing this character
of business and evidently refers to business done in
Illinois. . . . When in a charter of an incorporated
company restrictions are imposed as to the kind of business it may do, such limitations upon the power of the
company ordinarily follow it wherever it goes, that is,
when such a company comes into another State, it has
only the powers which its charter confers. But that is not
this case. The act in question is a general law regulating
insurance companies and was evidently designed as a

WESTERN INDEMNITY CO. v. RUPP,
235 U. S.

Opinion df the Court.

regulation of the business in the State of Illinois. It has
no application to the business done in Kentucky."
It does not appear that the court's attention was called
to any decision by the courts of Illinois placing a different
construction, or indeed any construction, upon the section
in question. If such decision existed, it was incumbent
upon defendant to prove it as matter of fact. We are
referred to no authoritative judicial construction of
the statute in the State of its origin, nor have we searched
for any, for what is matter of fact in the state court is
matter of fact in this court upon review; and this applies
where foreign law is in question in the state court as well as
to any other issue of fact. Hanley v. Donoghue, ,116 U. S.
1, 6; Chicago & Alton R. R. v. Wiggins Ferry Co., 119 U. S.
615, 622.
It is earnestly, argued that the court erred in its construction of the Illinois statute. We do not pass upon this
question, deeming it to be outside of the limits of our
jurisdiction; for it is settled that where in a state court the
validity of an act of the legislature of another State is not
in question, and the controversy turns merely upon its
interpretation or construction, no question arises under
the "full faith and credit" clause of the Federal Constitution. Glenn v. Garth, 147 U. S. 360; Lloyd v. Matthews,
155 U. S. 222, 227; Banholzer v. New York Life Insurance
Co., 178 U. S. 402, 406; Allen v. Alleghany Co., 196 U. S.
458, 464; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Melton, 218 U. S.
36, 51; Texas & N. 0. R. R. Co. v. Miller, 221 U. S. 408,
416.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. CHIEF-JUSTICE WHITE concurs in the result.

