SIOUX REMEDY CO. v. COPE.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

SIOUX R]PMEDY COMPANY v. COPE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TURNER COUNTY, STATE
OF SOUTH DAKOTA.
No. 37.

Submitted March 13, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

When the writ of error from this court is not allowed until after the
record has been sent back by the state appellate court, to the trial
court, the writ is directed to that court.
It is within the province of the highest court of a State in construing a
state statute to depart from prior decisions upon the subject if
deemed untenable and iin such event this court upon a writ of error to
that court accepts the latest construction and confines its attention
to determining whether the statute, as so construed, violates the
Federal Constitution.
While a State may adopt a reasonable police measure, even though
interstate commerce be incidentally or indirectly affected, it has
no power to exclude from its limits foreign corporations or others
engaged in interstate commerce or to impose such conditions as
will fetter their right to carry on such commerce, or subject them
in respect to their transactions therein to unreasonable requirements.
The right to demand and enforce payment for goods sold in interstate
conmerce is directly connected with, and essential to, such commerce, and the imposition of unreasonable conditions on such right
operates as a burden and restraint .upon interstate commerce.
While a State may restrict the right of foreign corporations to sue in
its courts and to engage in business within its limits, its power in this
respect, like all other state powers, can only be exerted within the
limitations placed on state action by the Federal Constitution.
A corporation, authorized by the State of its creation to engage in interstate commerce, may not be prevented from coming into the
limits of another State for all legitimate purposes of such commerce.
A State may require a foreign corporation seeking to enforce rights in its
courts to conform to prevailing modes of procedure and usual rules
respecting costs, security therefor and the like, but it may not impose
conditions such as filing its certificate, paying recording fees and appointing a resident agent which have no bearing on mere questions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

235 U. S.

procedure or costs. Such conditions by their necessary operations
are burdens on interstate commerce.
A requirement that a foreign corporation appoint a resident agent on
whom process may be served in an action against itas a condition
precedent to suing in the courts of the State to collect a claim arising
out of interstate commerce transactions, is a burden on interstate
commerce because it necessarily operates to thwart the purpose of
the Constitution to secure and maintain the freedom of such commerce by whomsoever conducted.
The South Dakota statute, §§ 883-885, Rev. Codes 1903, as the same
has been construed by the state courts, requiring foreign corporations
before bringing suit on claims arising in interstate commerce in the
courts of the State, to file certificate of incorporation and other papers
and pay recording fees and also to appoint resident agents on whom
process can be served, is 'an unconstitutional burden on interstate
commerce.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a
statute of South Dakota regarding the right of foreign corporations to su.e in the courts of the State and prescribing
conditions to be performed in regard thereto, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Joe Kirby, Mr. C. E. Moore and Mr. A. W. Bulkley
for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Charles 0. Bailey, Mr. John H. Voorhees, Mr. Alan
Bogue, Jr., Mr. Andrew S. Bogue, Mr. Peter G. Honegger
and Mr. Theodore M. Bailey for defendants in error:
The statute is constitutional though it may affect interstate commerce. Allen v. Alleghany Company, 196 U. S.
458; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436; Blake v. McClung, 172
U. S. 239; Chambers v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 207 U. S. 142;

Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; Lupton's Sons
v. Automobile Club, 225 U. S. 489; Diamond Glue Co. v.
U. S. Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611; Flint & Walling Company v.

McDonald, 21 S. Dak. 526; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485;
Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; Johnson v. New York

SIOUX REMEDY CO. v. COPE.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Breweries Co., Ltd., 178 Fed. Rep. 513; Mahar v. Harrington Park, 204 N. Y. 231; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. beer Lodge
County, 231 U. S. 495; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts,
15 Wall. 284; U. S. Fidelity Co. v. Kentucky, 231 U. S.
394.
The following cases cited by plaintiff in error can be
distinguished: Atchison &c. Railway Co. v. O'Connor, 223
U. S.280; Buck Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; International Textbook Co. v. Lynch, 218 U. S. 664; Same v. Peterson, 218
U. S. 664; Same v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Ludwig v. West.
Un. Tel. Co., 216 U. S. 146; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 56; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Southern R. Co. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 400; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 1; Wilson-Moline Buggy Co. v. Hawkins, 223 U. S.
713.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This is an action by an Iowa corporation to enforce
payment of the purchase price, amounting to $80,. of
merchandise sold in interstate commerce under a written
contract which was made in South Dakota and required
that the merchandise be shipped by the plaintiff from its
place of business in Iowa to the defendants at their place
of business and residence. in South Dakota. The action
was brought in a court of the latter State and the defendants interposed a plea to the effect that the action could
not be maintained because, as was the fact, the plaintiff
had not complied with a South Dakota statute prescribing
conditions upon which corporations of other States would
be permitted to sue in the courts of that State. The plea
was sustained and the action dismissed. An appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State resulted in a judgment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
O11nion of the Court.

235 U. S.

affirmance,' from which one member of the court dissented. 28 S. Dak. 397.
In that court it was contended that the statute upon
which the plea was grounded is, when applied in a case
like this, repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The statute (Rev. Codes 1903) declares (§ 883) that no
corporation created under the laws of any other State or
Territory, for other than religious and charitable purposes,
"shall transact any business within this State, or acquire,
hold and dispose of property, real, personal or mixed,
within this State, or sue or maintain any action at law or
otherwise, in any of the courts of this State," until it shall
have filed in the office of the Secretary of State an authenticated copy of its charter or articles of incorporation,
and also (§ 885) that "no action shall be commenced or
maintained in any of the courts of this State by such
corporation on any contract, agreement or transaction
made or entered into in this State, by such corporation,"
unless it shall have appointed a resident agent upon whom
process may be served in any action to which it may be
a party and shall have filed an authenticated copy of such
appointment in the office of the Secretary of State and
of the register of deeds of the county where the agent
resides. The corporation is also required to pay the fees,
amounting to about $25, for filing and recording these
instruments.
The Supreme Court of the State construed the statute
as requiring a foreign corporation to subject itself to the
jurisdiction of all the courts of the State as a condition to
invoking the aid of any one of them, and as embracing
'At the time of the allowance of the present writ of error the record
had been sent to the Circuit Court of Turner County, and so the writ
was directed to that court. See Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246, 304;
Atherton v. Fowler, 91 U. S. 143, 146-149; Polleys v. Black River Co.,
113 U. S. 81; Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S. 48.

SIOUX REMEDY CO. v. COPE.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

actions to enforce contracts directly arising out of and
connected with interstate commerce equally with actions
having no relation to such commerce; and after so construing the statute, the court held it to be a reasonable
exercise of the police power of the State and in no wise
repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution of
the United States. In two earlier cases the court had
taken a different view of the statute (Rex Buggy Co. v.
Dinneen, 23 S. Dak. 474; Sioux Remedy Co. v. Lindgren, 27
S. Dak. 123), but in the opinion rendered in this case they
were disapproved.
Recognizing that it was within the province of the Supreme Court of the State to construe the statute and to
depart from prior decisions upon the subject, if deemed
untenable, we accept the construction applied in this case,
and confine our attention to the Federal question, whether,
as so construed, the statute, by its necessary operation
materially or directly burdens interstate commerce.
Through a long series of decisions dealing with the scope
and effect of the commerce clause it has come to be well'
settled that a State, while possessing power to adopt
reasonable measures to promote and protect the health,
safety, morals and welfare of its people, even though
interstate commerce be incidentally or indirectly affected,
has no power to exclude from its limits foreign corporations
or others engaged in interstate commerce, or by the imposition of conditions to fetter their right to carry on such
commerce, or to subject them in respect to their transactions therein to requirements which are unreasonable or
pass beyond the bounds of suitable local protection.
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352, 401, 402, 410, and cases cited; Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232 U. S. 14, 31, and cases cited.
And so the solution of the question here presented lies
within narrow lines.
The contract and sale out of which the action arose

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

were transactions in interstate commerce, and entirely
legitimate notwithstanding the plaintiff's non-compliance
with the state statute. International Text Book Co. v.
Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Bucks Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S.
205; Flint & Walling Mfg: Co. v. McDonald, 21 S. Dak. 526.
After delivery of the merchandise according to the contract, the plaintiff was lawfully entitled to the purchase
price. The defendants were likewise obligated to pay it.
And by reason of their refusal the plaintiff had a right of
action on the contract. Thus much was recognized by
the Supreme Court of the State and is now conceded by
counsel for the defendants. But it was held by that court,
and is here contended, that while the State could not
make non-compliance with the statute a ground for forbidding of' invalidating sales in interstate commerce, it
could make such non-compliance a ground for preventing
the maintenance of any action in the courts of the State
based upon such a sale; in other words, that the State,
although unable to condition the right to make the sale
or its validity upon a compliance with the statute, could
so condition the right to sue for the purchase price in tha
courts of the State.
The argument advanced in support of this position is,
first, that the right to demand and enforce payment for
merchandise sold in interstate commerce is no part of
such commerce, and therefore may be encumbered without burdening the latter; second, that a State may impose
such conditions as it deems appropriate upon the right
of foreign corporations to sue in its courts, and, third,
that in any event the conditions imposed by the statute
are not unreasonable or burdensome. The Supreme Court
of the State sustained the second and third points and
passed the other without comment.
Of the first point it is. enough to say that the right to
demand and enforce payment for goods sold in"interstate
commerce, if not a part of such commerce, is so directly

SIOUX REMEDY CO. v. COPE.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

connected with it and is so essential to its existence and
continuance that the imposition of unreasonable conditions
upon this right must necessarily operate as a restraint or
burden upon interstate commerce. The form or mode of
imposing the conditions is not nearly so important as their
necessary and practical operation, for, as was said in
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27:
"If the statute, reasonably interpreted, either directly
or by its necessary operation, burdens interstate commerce,
it must be adjudged to be invalid, whatever may have
been the purpose for which it was enacted, and although
the company may do both interstate and local business.
This court has repeatedly adjudged that in all such matters the judiciary will not regard mere forms, but will look
through forms to the substance of things."
It may be conceded in a general way that a State may
restrict the right of a foreign corporation to sue in its
courts. Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589-591;
Anglo American Provision Co. v. Davis Provision Co., 191
U. S. 373. And in the same general way it may be conceded that a State may restrict the right of such corporations to engage in business within its limits. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648.
But the power so to deal with these subjects, like all other
state powers, can only be exerted within the limitations
which the Constitution of the United States places upon
state action. Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 30; Blake v.
McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 256; Chambers v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 142, 148; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 33; Southern Railway Co.
v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 413. One of these limitations is
that before indicated arising from the commerce clause,
whose operation, as this court has said, is such that a corporation authorized by the State of its creation to engage
in interstate commerce "may not be prevented by another
State from coming into its limits for all the legitimate

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

purposes of such commerce." Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 27. We think that when a
corporation. goes into a State other than that of its origin
to collect, according to the usual or prevailing methods,
the purchase price of merchandise which it has lawfully
sold therein in interstate commerce, it is there for a legitimate purpose of such commerce, and that the State cannot,
consistently with the limitation arising from the commerce clause, obstruct or hamper the attainment of that
purpose. If it were otherwise, the purpose of the Constitution to secure and maintain the freedom of commerce by
whomsoever conducted could be largely thwarted by the
States and the commerce itself seriously crippled.
We are thus brought to the question whether the particular conditions/imposed by this statute can be sustained
when applied to rights of action like that disclosed in the
present case. Without doubt a foreign corporation seeking
to enforce such a right in the courts of a State may be required to conform to the prevailing modes of proceeding
in those courts and to submit to the usual rules respecting
costs, the giving of security therefor (see Blake v. McClung,
172 U. S.239, 256), and the like. But incidents of this
character commonly attending litigation may be put out
of view, for it is with something quite different that we are
here concerned. The conditions which the statute imposes
are: First, that-the company shall file in the office of the
Secretary of State an authenticated copy of its charter or
articles of incorporation; second, that it shall appoint a
resident agent upon whom process may be served in any
action against it and shall file a copy of such appointment
in the office of the Secretary of State and of the register of
deeds of the county where the agent resides; and, third,
that it shall pay the fees incident to filing and recording
these instruments, approximating $25. It will be perceived that these are the conditions upon which many of
the States permit foreign corporations to engage in busi-

SIOUX REMEDY CO. v. COPE.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ness within their limits when no constitutional limitation
is involved, that is, when the character of the business is
such that the State is free to exclude such corporations or
to admit them upon terms acceptable to it. But here the
conditions arp sought to be applied in a different way and
to a different situation falling within the reach of the
commerce clause. Out of this arises the question of their
validity. We think the mere statement of the conditions
shows that they have no natural or reasonable relation to
the right to sue which they are intended to restrict. They
have no bearing upon the merits or any question of procedure or costs, are not directed against any abusive use
of judicial process, and are plainly onerous. The second
one, respecting the appointment of a resident agent upon
whom process may be served, is particularly burdensome,
because, as the Supreme Court- of the State has said, it
requires the corporation to subject itself to the jurisdiction
-of the courts of the State in general as a prerequisite to
suing in any of them; that is to say, it withholds the right
to sue even in a single instance until the corporation renders itself amenable to suit in all the courts of the State
by whosoever chooses to sue it there. If one State can
impose such a condition others can, and in that way corporations engaged in interstate commerce can be subjected
to great embarrassment and serious hazards in the enforcement of contractual rights directly arising out of and connected with such commerce. As applied to such rights
we think the conditions are unreasonable and burdensome,
and therefore in conflict with the commerce clause.
These views require that the judgment be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

