OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
,Syllabus,

235 U. S.

these complainants that such accommodations would not
be furnished to him, when furnished to others, upon reasonable request and payment of the customary charge.
Nor is there'anything to show that in case any of these
complainants offers himself as a passenger on any of these
roads and is refused accommodations equal to those afforded to others on a like journey, he will not have an
adequate remedy at law. The desire to obtain a sweeping
injunction cannot be accepted as.a substitute for compliance with the general rule that the .complainant must
present facts sufficient to show that his individual need
requires the remedy for which he asks. The bill is wholly
destitute of any sufficient ground for injunction and unless we are to ignore settled principles governing equitable
relief, the decree must be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS con-

cur in the result.

LOUISIANA RAILWAY & NAVIGATION COMPANY
v. BEHRMAN, MAYOR OF THE CITY OF NEW
ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 49.

Argued November 4, 5, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

While the jurisdiction of this court under § 237, Judicial Code, may not
attach where the state court gave no effect to the state enactment
claimed to have impaired the obligation of a contract, where the
State-does give effect to later legislation which does impair the obligation of a contract, if one exists, this court has jurisdiction to, and
must, determine for.itself whether there is an existing contract, even
though the state court may have put its decision upon the ground

LOUISIANA RY. & NAV. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.
235 U. S.

165

Opinion of the Court.

that the contract was not made, was invalid, or had become inoperative.
In determining whether effect has been given to later legislation, this
court is not limited to mere consideration of the language of the
opinion of the state court.
This court has jurisdiction under § 237, Judicial Code, to determine
whether there is a contractual obligation which plaintiff in error is
entitled to enforce without its being impaired by the operation of
subsequent legislation enacted by or under the authority of the State.
While courts should give them a fair and reasonable interpretation,
public grants are not to be extended by implication beyond their
clear intent.
As the ordinance on which the contract claimed to have been impaired
was based, was intended to confer rights exclusively with reference to
an existing plan of construction, and as that plan proved abortive
because of legal obstacles to its fulfillment, no rights were conferred
thereby, and a later ordinance on the same subject cannot be deemed
invalid under the impairment of obligation qlause of the Federal
Constitution.
An ordinance of the City of New Orleans regarding construction of the
Belt Railroad, held not unconstitutional because it impaired the
obligation of a contract based on a former ordinance, as such contract was subject to a suspensive condition, and the event in which
the obligation was to arise had not happened.
127 Louisiana, 775, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under § 237, Judicial Code, and also the constitutionality
under the impairment of obligation provision of the Federal Constitution of an ordinance of the City of New
Orleans relating to the construction and operation of a
belt railroad within the city, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. E. Milling, with whom Mr. M. J. Foster was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. I. D. Moore for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error seeks to review the judgment of the
state court upon the ground that it denied a Federal right

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

asserted under the contract clause of the Constitution.

Art. 1, § 10.
The suit was brought by the Mayor of the City of New
Orleans, in his official capacity, to restrain the Louisiana
Railway & Navigation Company from proceeding under
a municipal ordinance-No. 1997, New Council Series,
dated September 4, 1903-to construct and operate tracks
over a public belt railroad reservation, and from operating
cars, etc., over public belt railroad tracks, and to have the
ordinance, so far as it granted to that Company such
privileges of .construction and operation, declared null
and void. The facts, so far as it is necessary to state them,
are these:
The authorities of the City of New Orleans devised the
plan of establishing a public belt railroad along the river
front. On March 1, 1899, the City adopted an ordinance
(No. 15,080, C. S.) under which, in consideration of certain concessions, the Illinois Central Railroad Company
built about two miles of the projected system, that is,
from the upper limit of the City to the upper boundary of
Audubon Park. This was followed by ordinance No. 147,
N. C. S., adopted August 7, 1900, which created a Belt
Railroad Board, composed of the Mayor and certain
city officials, to construct, control and operate the belt
railroad for the benefit of the City; and on August 12, 1902,
the Board of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans,
called the 'Dock Board,'-a body exercising state authority over a part of the area to be traversed by the proposed
road-approved the dedication for the purpose stated.
This approval was to remain in force only so long as the
belt railroad was 'operated and controlled by a public
commission' in accordance with the provisions of ordinance No. 147.
On February 10, 1903, a further ordinance was adopted
-No. 1615, N. C. S.-which, among other things, granted
to the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company

LOUISIANA RY. & NAV. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.
235 U. S.

167

Opinion of the Court.

a right of way over the belt line and reservation from
the upper limit of the City to Henderson Street. The
condition was that the company, at its own expense,
should construct and dedicate to perpetual public use
the tracks as projected from the end of the line already
built, on the upper side of Audubon Park, to Henderson
Street (a distance of about five miles), the construction
to be completed before July 1, 1904. Other provisions
looked to still further construction through contributions
from other railroads. The validity of this ordinance was
at once challenged in a suit brought by the Mayor, on
behalf of the City, which resulted in favor of the Railroad
Company. Capdevielle, Mayor, v. New Orleans R. R. Co.,
110 Louisiana, 904. The terms of the ordinance, however,
did not conform to the conditions upon which the Dock
Board had consented to the building of the belt road, and,
in a suit brought by that Board against the Railroad Company, the carrying out of ordinance No. 1615 was restrained so far as it authorized the construction of the
railroad upon the property subject to the Board's jurisdiction. Board of Commissioners v. New Orleans & San
FraniscoR. R. Co., 112 Louisiana, 1011. Following this
decision, it appears that the New Orleans & San Francisco
Railroad Company abandoned the building of the belt
line contemplated by the ordinance; no part of it was constructed thereunder.
On September 4, 1903, while the suit of the Dock Board
was pending, and after the final decision in the Capdevielle
suit, the City adopted ordinance No. 1997, N. C. S.,-the
ordinance here in question (127 Louisiana, pp. 784-792).
Without passing now.upon points in controversy, it may
be said that this ordinance, reciting that under ordinance
No. 1615 there had already been granted to the New
Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company the right to
construct the belt line over the reservation from the place
at which the rails then terminated to Henderson Street,

OCTO3ER TE1tM, 1014.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

granted to the Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company-the plaintiff in error-a right of way over 'the
double trackbelt line and reservation' to that point, upon
stated terms and conditions, among which may be noted
the following: That when the plaintiff in error had operated its equipment over the described belt tracks for
thirty days, it should pay to the City the sum of $50,000;
that in case the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad
Company failed 'without legal excuse' to build the described line to Henderson Street, as provided in ordinance
No. 1615, the plaintiff in error should build that line in
place of the first-mentioned company-this construction
to be in lieu of the payment of $50,000 and the belt tracks
so built, as soon as completed to Henderson Street, to be
'turned over to the immediate ownership of the City of
New Orleans' and to be under 'the control and management of the Public Belt authority'; and, further, that, in
case the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company
should from any cause complete only a portion of the
described tracks, the plaintiff in error should have the
right to use so much of the described belt line as had been
built, on payment of a proportionate part of the specified
sum. This ordinance the plaintiff in error formally
accepted on September 17, 1903.
The suit brought by the Dock Board against the New
Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company was decided
by the Supreme Court of the State in May, 1904, and,
in the October following, the City adopted ordinance
No. 2683, N. C. S., which made comprehensive provision
for municipal construction and operation of the belt line
system. All conflicting ordinances were repealed, and
it cannot be doubted that this ordinance, if enforced,
would make it impossible for the plaintiff in error to exercise the rights it might otherwise have under ordinance
No. 1997. The belt board was reorganized by the establishment of a new Public Belt Railroad Commission, com-

LOUISIANA RY. & NAV. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.
235'U. S.

169

Opinion of the Court.

posed of the Mayor and sixteen 'citizen tax payers,' to
whom was confided the necessary administrative authority
for carrying out the municipal scheme. This ordinance
received the approval of the Dock Board on stated conditions, and, on July 1, 1905, the new undertaking was
formally inaugurated. On November 10, 1905, the plaintiff in error deposited with a trust company, which was
one of the fiscal agents of the City, $50,000 in securities
in alleged compliance with its contract under ordinance
No. 1997. The City, however, went on with its own plan,
arranging for bank credits to enable it to carry on the
work under ordinance No. 2683, and when, in May, 1906,
the plaintiff in error attempted to begin construction
under the earlier ordinance it was stopped by the City
authorities. Soon after, the present suit was instituted.
The petition of the Mayor, alleging upon various
grounds the invalidity of ordinance No. 1997, also averred
the adoption of ordinance No. 2683, the irrevocable
dedication thereby for the reservation of the public belt
railroad, and the undertaking by the City under that
ordinance of the work .of construction. The plaintiff in
error, in its answer, set up, the unconstitutionality of
the later ordinance as one impairing contractual obligations. At the beginning of the suit a preliminary injunction was granted, in accordance with the City's prayer, and
the City proceeded with the construction of the public
belt railroad, which has since been put in operation. In
the court of first instance, judgment went 'in favor of the
plaintiff, Martin Behrman, in his official capacity of Mayor
of the City of New Orleans, and as ex-officio president of
the Public Belt Railroad Commission of the City,' declaring ordinance No. 1997, so far as it purported to grant the
privileges in dispute, to be 'illegal, void and of no effect'
and making the injunction permanent. This judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State upon the
ground that the contract was 'subject to a suspensive

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

condition, and that this condition had become impossible
of realization, and the contract had, in consequence, fallen
through, when plaintiff made its attempt to begin work
and the injunction was taken.' 127 Louisiana, 775, 795,
796.
The defendant in error moves to dismiss, invoking the
established rule that, where the state court gives no effect
to the subsequent enactment, the jurisdiction of this
court does not attach. Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall.
379, 383; Lehigh Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S. 388, 392;
New Orleans Water Works v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125
U. S. 18, 38, 39; Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S.
103, 111; Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 216, 219; Fisherv.
New Orleans, 218 U. S. 438, 440; Missouri & Kansas
Interurban Rwy. v. Olathe, 222 U. S. 187, 190; Cross Lake
Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632, 639. We are of the
opinion that the present case is not within this rule. It is
equally well settled that, where the state court does give
effect to later legislation which operates to impair the
obligation of a contract if one exists, this court is not
deprived of jurisdiction because the state court has put
its decision upon the ground that the contract was not
made, or that it was invalid, or that it has become inoperative. In such a case, this court must determine for
itself whether there is an existing contract. Otherwise,
although it was the aim of the suit and the effect of the
judgment to give vitality and operation to the subsequent law, and this court might be of the opinion that
there was a valid contract which thereby would be impaired, it would be powerless to enforce the constitutional
guarantee. Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436,
442, 443; Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116,
144, 145; University v. People, 99 U. S. 309, 321; Mobile &
Ohio Railroadv. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486, 492; Douglas v.
Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488, 502; Atlantic Coast Line v.
Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548, 556; Russell v. Sebastian, 233

LOUISIANA RY. & NAV. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.
235 U. S.

171

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 195, 202. And, in determining whether effect has
been given to the later statute, this court is not limited to
the mere consideration of the language of the opinion of
the state court. McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102,
116; Houston & Texas Central Railroad v. Texas, 177
U. S. 66, 76, 77; Hubert v. New Orleans, 215 U. S. 170, 175;
Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U. S 362, 376.
In the present case, it is apparent that the whole object,
of the suit was to establish the right of the City to carry
out the subsequent ordinance, which conflicted with and
repealed the earlier ordinance so far as it might be construed to give to the plaintiff in error the particular
privileges therein described. It was, as appears from
the petition itself, to accomplish the purpose of the later
enactment, and the building of the belt line thereunder,
that the City asked the aid of the court's injunction in this
suit; and it was through this protection that the municipal
scheme of construction under the later ordinance was
actually carried out. The final judgment completed and
made permanent this protection, with respect to operation
as well as construction, as against the claim of contract
right. It must follow that this court has jurisdiction to
determine whether that claim is well-founded, that is,
whether there is a contractual obligation which the plaintiff in error is entitled to enforce without its being impaired by the operation of the subsequent provision
having, by virtue of state authority, the force of state
law.
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that although
the proposed belt road to Henderson Street was not built
by the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company,
and although it be assumed that the failure of that company to build was legally excusable and hence that the
obligation of the plaintiff in error to build in its stead did
not arise, still there was an effective grant under ordinance No. 1997 and the plaintiff in error is entitled to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 V. S.

the use of the belt in the manner therein described upon
the payment of $50,000.
We agree with the state court that this is not a proper
interpretation of the ordinance.' Provision had already
"This ordinance, so far as it is material with respect to this question, is as follows:
"SECTIoN 3. Be it further ordained, etc., That, whereas, under
'Ordinance No. 1615, N. C. S., the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company, its successors or assigns, have been granted the right
to construct, at their own cost and expense, the double track Belt line
over the Belt reservation on the river front, from the present end of
the Public Belt on the upper side of Audubon Park to Henderson
Street, and under said ordinance the Company dedicates said tracks
to perpetual public use, therefore, under the belt provisions of said
Ordinance No. 1615, N. C. S., 'and with the limitations therein which
recognize and preserve the present and future rights of the City of
New Orleans over the projected Public Belt Railroad,' the Louisiana
Railway & Navigation Company is hereby granted.a right of way over
the double track Belt line and reservation on the river front of the City
of New Orleans, from the upper limits of the City of New Orleans to
Henderson Street, upon the following terms and conditions:
. "(a) That, when said Louisiana Railway & Navigation
Company
shall have operated its engines, trains and cars over said Belt tracks,
as provided in this ordinance, for a period of thirty days, the said
Company shall pay to the City of New Orleans the sum of Fifty
1

Thousand Dollars ($50,000),

.

.

and when said Company shall

be ready to begin to operate its engines, trains and cars as above provided, the said Company shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent of the City
of New Orleans, bonds or other securities, satisfactory to said Fiscal
Agent, of the value of fifty thousand dollars, the same to be held in
escrow as security for compliance by said Company with the foregoing
obligation, and to be returned to said Company when said Company
shall have operated its engines, trains and cars over said Belt tracks, as
provided in this ordinance, for a period of thirty days, and shall have
paid said sum of fifty thousand dollars to said Fiscal Agent. . .
"(b) That in consideration of the payment of the above sum, the
Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company shall have the right to
operate its own locomotives, cars and equipment over the said Public
Belt from the upper city limits to Henderson Street. .
"(c) That in the event of the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad
Company, its successors or assigns, failing, without legal excuse, to

LOUISIANA RY. & NAV. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.
235 U. S.

173

Opinion of the Court.

been made for construction to the designated point by the
New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company. Or-.
dinance No. 1997 prefaced its grant by a recital of the
right of construction which had been given to that combuild said Belt tracks from the upper side of Audubon Park to Henderson Street, on or before July 1, 1904, the Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company shall build the same from the upper side of Audubon
Park to Henderson Street, under the terms and conditions of Paragraph 10 of Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1615, N. C. S.; and, in case
said Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company shall build said tracks,
it is hereby granted the right and privilege to operate its trains, cars
and traffic over said tracks under all the provisions and terms of said
Paragraph 10 of Section 2 of Ordinance No. 1615, N. C. S., said Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company assuming the obligation of the
New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company under said paragraph
of said ordinance, and being hereby granted all the rights and privileges of said New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company, its
successors or assigns, under said Paragraph 10 of Section 2 of said
Ordinance, except as hereinafter provided, such construction of said
tracks from the upper side of Audubon Park to Henderson Street to
be in lieu of the payment of $50,000, referred to in Paragraph (a) of
this section; provided, that said Louisiana Railway & Navigation
Company shall complete the said tracks to Henderson Street within
one year from the time the City shall furnish the clear and undisputed
right of way, it being always understood that said Louisiana Railway
& Navigation Company assumes all the obligations of the New Orleans
& San Francisco Railroad Company under Paragraph 10 of Section 2
of said Ordinance No. 1615, N. C. S.; and provided that, as soon as
said Belt tracks shall be completed to Henderson Street, the same shall
be turned over to the immediate ownership of the City of New Orleans
and to be under the control and management of the Public Belt authority; and provided, further, that said Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company shall, on July 1, 1904, deposit with the Fiscal Agent of

the City of New Orleans, bonds or other securities satisfactory to said
Fiscal Agent, of the value of fifty thousand dollars, the same to be

held in escrow as security for compliance by said Company with the
foregoing obligation and to be returned to said Company when said
Company shall have built and completed said Belt tracks from the
upper side of Audubon Park to Henderson Street; and provided,
further, that in case said Company shall. be prevented from building
said Belt tracks, or any portion of the same, on account of the ,City

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

pany and it was expressly stated that the grant to the
plaintiff in error was made 'under the belt provisions of
said ordinance No. 1615.' It had been provided in the
last-mentioned ordinance that the public authorities might
give to other railroad companies the right to use the road
thus to be constructed, on their making contributions
which should go into a special fund for the further extension of the belt line system. It is manifest that the intent
was to give to the plaintiff in error the described right to
use the tracks thus to be laid. But it was also contemnot furnishing the right of way under the terms of Ordinance No. 1615,
N. C. S., or by causes beyond its control, then the securities deposited
shall be returned to it by said Fiscal Agent.
" (d) That in the event the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad
Company, its successors and assigns, shall, from any cause, complete
only a portion of the tracks from the upper side of Audubon Park to
Henderson Street, the Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company,
its successors and assigns, shall have the right to operate its own
locomotives, cars and equipment over such portion of the tracks as
is already built, and as may be built by the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company, its successors and assigns, and for such privilege shall pay to the City of New Orleans such proportion of the sum
provided in Clause (a) of this paragraph as the tracks so constructed
and used by said Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company bear to
the whole length of the tracks from upper city limits to Henderson
Street.
"(f) That all controversies between the Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company on the one side, and the Public Belt authority, or
any other Company or Companies to which the City or her Public
Belt authority may grant the use of said tracks and appurtenances on
the other side, relative to the use of said .tracks and appurtenances or
the cost of construction or maintenance thereof, or the rules and regulations relative to the movement and handling of cats, trains and
traffic thereon and thereover shall be submitted to the arbitration of
three disinterested persons, one to be selected by said Louisiana Railway & Navigation Company, the second by the Public Belt authority,
or such other Company or Companies, as the case may be, and the
third by the two thus chosen; and the decision of this tribunal, or any
"
two of them, shall have the effect of an amicable composition.

LOUISIANA RY. & NAV. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.
235 U. S.

175

Opinion of the Court.

plated that the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad
Company might fail to build and that this failure might
be 'without legal excuse.' In that event, it was agreed
that the plaintiff in error should step into the place of the
other company and assume the burden of construction
'under the terms and conditions' of ordinance No. 1615,
such construction to take the place of the pecuniary
consideration for the use of the tracks. It was further
apparent that the fulfillment of the plan of ordinance
No. 1615 might be legally impossible and hence that the
failure of the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad
Company might be legally excused. In this event, the
plaintiff in error did not undertake to build and no right
of construction was given to it. We cannot imply such
a right. While we are to give to public grants a fair and
reasonable interpretation (United States v. Denver &c.
Rwy. Co., 150 U. S. 1, 14'; Russell v. Sebastian, 233 U. S.
195, 205), they are not to be extended by implication
beyond their clear intent. The right of construction was
given to the plaintiff in error in a particular contingency,
and not otherwise ;and the explicit provision for construction negatives an intention to bind the City to permit
it in a case not specified. There was abundant reason for
both expression and omission. The suit of the Dock
Board was pending and whether the New Orleans & San
Francisco Railroad Company would be able to build, as
provided in ordinance No. 1615, was undecided. If that
Company did build, the City was prepared to give, and,
in that event did give, to the plaintiff in error the right of
way upon the agreed payment; and if that Company
failed to build 'without legal excuse' the City was ready
to provide, and in that event did provide, that the plaintiff
in error should build in its stead. But if there were legal
excuse for a failure of the New Orleans & San Francisco
Railroad Company to build, it was plainly desirable that
neither party should be bound. In that case, as the terms

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

of the ordinance show, the plaintiff in error was unwilling
to assume the burden of construction, and the City by not
binding itself in that contingency preserved its freedom to
deal as it might seem best with the exigency that would
thus arise. Ordinance No. 1997 did not obligate the City
to build the belt road or any part of it; it did not bind the
City to cause the road to be built by others. As we read
the ordinance, it was intended to confer rights exclusively
with reference to an existing plan of construction, and if
that plan proved abortive, because of legal obstacles to its
fulfillment, no right was conferred upon the plaintiff in
error.
It is urged that the provisions of Ordinance No. 1997
[§ 3, par. (c)] that the belt tracks to be constructed by
the plaintiff in error, as soon as they were completed
to Henderson Street, should be turned over to the 'immediate ownership of the city' and should be under the
'control and management' of the public belt authority,
obviated the objection raised by the Dock Board with
respect to Ordinance No. 1615. But an examination of
other provisions of the ordinance shows that this 'control
and management' was intended to be subject to certain
limitations. Thus, it was provided in paragraph (f) that
all controversies between the plaintiff in error and the
public -belt authority, or any other company or companies
to which the use of the tracks might be granted, relating
to the movement and handling of cars, trains and traffic
thereon; should be submitted to three arbitrators, one to
be selected by the plaintiff in error, the second by the
public belt authority, or by such other company or companies, as the case might be, and the third by the two thus
chosen, and that the decision of any two of these arbitrators was to have the effect of an 'amicable composition.'
We find no reason to doubt the correctness of the conclusion that the conditions, subject to which the Dock
Board approved the dedication for belt road purposes of

LOUISIANA RY. & NAV. CO. v. NEW ORLEANS.
235 U. S.

177

Opinion.of the Court.

the portion of the proposed route under its jurisdiction,
would have been violated under the plan of Ordinance
No. 1997 as well as under that of Ordinance No. 1615.
And, further, it is clear that the proviso in paragraph (c)
which related to tracks to be constructed by the plaintiff
in error, did not change the event in which alone the
plaintiff in error was entitled to construct them, and this
was in case the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad
Company should fail to build 'without legal excuse.'
Thus far we have assumed that -the New Orleans &
San Francisco Railroad Company was legally excused
from building. But it is insisted by the plaintiff in error
that this is not the case. That is, it is said that the grant
of the right to construct was divisible and that, so far
as the City was competent to provide for such construction, the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company
was bound to build the belt road and, therefore, that its
failure to build to this extent was 'without legal excuse'
within the meaning of paragraph (c). But Ordinance
No. 1615 negatives this view. It explicitly provided for
construction 'from the end of the rails on the upper side
of Audubon Park to Henderson Street,' and that the city
should furnish 'a clear legal right of way for the construction of said tracks.' We think that there is no basis whatever for the contention that the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company was bound to construct a part
of the belt road specified if, by reason of the successful
opposition of the Dock Board, it was without power to
build the remainder. And when the Dock Board prevailed
in its suit, that Company was entitled to abandon, as it
did abandon, the undertaking. This was the event, which
was carefully excluded by Ordinance No. 1997 in defin'ig
the contingency in which the plaintiff in error should build.
The provision in paragraph (c) for the return of the securities, which were to be deposited by the plaintiff in error
as security for the performance of its obligation, in case
voL. ccxxxv--12

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

it should be prevented 'from building said belt tracks or
any portion of the same on account of the city not furnishing the right of way,' or 'by causes beyond its control,' tends to support, rather than to oppose, the view
that the undertaking was regarded as an entirety; for
all the securities were to be returned although the prevention related to a portion of the route only. We are
also referred to the provision [§ 3, par. (d)] that in the
event that the New Orleans & San Francisco Railroad
Company should, from any cause, complete 'only a portion of the tracks' described, the plaintiff in error should
have the right 'to operate its own locomotives, cars,' etc.
'over such portion of the tracks' as had already been
built, and as might be built by the first-mentioned Company, for a proportionate part of the agreed payment.
This clause, in view of the existing situation of the parties,
was held by the state court to have reference to a contingenoy in which, the opposition of the Dock Board not
having been successful, the Railroad Company had proceeded with its undertaking and, having built a part of
the tracks, had failed to complete them;-and this construction is in harmony with the other provisions of the ordinance. But, in fact, the event described in paragraph
(d) did not happen, as no part of the road was built; and
this clause in no way aids the contention that the New
Orleans & San Francisco Railroad Company was under
legal obligation to undertake a partial construction if it
became legally impossible to carry out its undertaking
as a whole.
We conclude that the contract upon which the plaintiff
in error relies was subject, in any aspect, to a suspensive
condition (Civil Code, La., Art. 2021), that the event
in which the obligation was to arise did not happen, and
hence that the subsequent "enactment was not open to the
objection raised.
Judgment affirmed.

