OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

Notwithstanding our conclusion in the proceeding
between the States of North Carolina and Tennessee,
where the established facts in respect to the location of
the dividing line were for the most part the same as those
disclosed, in the record now before us, we think the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right and it is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

took no part in the consideration and

decision of this case.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA & GULF RAILROAD COMPANY v. HARRISON, SHERIFF OF PITTSBURG
COUNTY, OKLAHOMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 45.

Argued November 3, 4, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

A Federal instrumentality acting under Congressional authority cannot
be subjected to an occupation or privilege tax by a State. Farmers'
Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516.
Where the agreement between the Government and an Indian tribe
imposes upon the Government a definite duty in regard to operation
of coal mines, as is the case with the Choctaw and Chickasaw agreement of April 23, 1897, lessees of the mines are the instrumentalities
through which the obligation of the United States is carried into
effect, and they cannot be subjected to an occupation or privilege
tax by the State in which the mines are located.
Neither state courts nor legislatures, by giving a tax a particular name,
can take from this court its duty to consider its real nature and effect. Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 227.
Where the manifest purpose of a gross revenue tax equal to a specified
percentage on gross receipts from production of a mine in addition to

UIOCTAW & (WIU[F 1, 11, . HARiISON.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

taxes levied and collected upon an ad valorem basis, is to reach all
sales and secure such percentage, the tax is, in effect, a privilege or
occupation tax; and so held a4 to such a tax imposed by Oklahoma on
persons engaged in mining and producing coal.
THE facts, which involve the- constitutionality of a
gross revenue tax levied by the State of Oklahoma on
persons engaged in mining and the production of coal,and
the power of a State to tax instrumentalities of the Federal
Government, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. G. Gamble, with whom Mr. M. L. Bell and Mr. C.
0. Blake were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. A. L. Hull, with whom Mr. Charles West, Attorney
General of the State of Oklahoma, was on the brief, for
appellee:
The state court has held the mining tax to be one on
property-not a license tax. McAlester Coal Co. v. Trapp,
141 Pac. Rep. 794; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 204 Fed.
Rep. 140; S. C., 223 U. S. 298, distinguished.
This is a tax on property and is not an interference with
the Federal Government in its care of the Indians. See
cases supra.
The internal evidence of ยง 8 is that this is a property
tax.
Section 6 is the section levying a tax on mineral production. The rebate provided for in ยง 8 is an attempt to
avoid a duplication of taxation on the same property.
While the lessees of both coal and oil lands in a certain
sense are Federal instrumentalities, they are no more so
than Indian traders or lessees of Indian grazing lands are
such. The property, though on Indian Reservations, is
taxable, provided it is not taxed so as to interfere with the
Federal purpose they subserve.
Likewise the ores and minerals while in the earth upon

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argumeint for Appellee.

235 U. S.,

segregated or Indian lands, are not taxable by the State.
But the ore, coal, or oil when severed from the soil is taxable as the property of the non-exempt lessee, citizen of
the United States and of this State.
Under these circumstances, especially during the time
the vast majority of the real estate in what was Indian
Territory, remains inalienable and non-taxable, is it to be
supposed that the State of Oklahoma, as a matter of convenience, would prefer to place its tax on the privilege
of mining or the mined product as property?
If the latter is the method selected, harmony with ยง 8
and an effective tax is provided for; but, if the'legislature
did not mean to levy a property tax but a privilege tax
only, then the vast oil industry in Eastern Oklahoma as
well as the large coal industry is probably to go entirely
untaxed. And 'until the Indian lands are taxable, the
cities and Western Oklahoma are to bear the burden of
government. A conclusion so unjust will not be reached.
As a property tax the tax measured by output is sound.
Complainant is only a licensee. A coal lease payable
in royalty, though on government land is taxable property.
Honing Co. v. Dillon, 6 L. R. A. (N. S.) 628; Forbes v.
Gracey, Fed. Cas. 4924; S. C., 94 U. S. 762; Moore v.
Beason, 51 Pac. Rep. 875; State v. Bell, Phil. N. C. 76;
Conder v. McMillan, 56 Pac. Rep. 965; Noble v. Amoretti,
71 Pac. Rep. 879.
Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, distinguished; and
see Snyder v. Bettman, 190 U. S. 249; South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U..S. 437; Baltimore Ship Co. v. Baltimore, 54 Atl. Rep. 623; S. C., 195 V. S. 375; Thomson v.
Un. Pac. Ry., 9 Wall. 579, 591; Lane Co. v. Oregon, 7
Wall. 77.
An exemption from state taxation, of agencies of the
National Government depends not on the nature of their
agency, but whether the tax does in truth deprive them
of the power to serve the Government as they were in-

CHOCTAW & GULF R. R. v.HARRISON.'
235 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

tended to serve it. Thomson v. Un. Pac. Ry., supra;
Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5. In both of
the cases emphasis was laid upon the question of Whether
the hindrance is remote or direct. And see FirstNational
Bank v. Kentucky, 9 Wall. 353; Utah Navigation Co. v.
Fisher, 116 U. S. 28; At. & P. Co. v. Arizona, 156 U. S.
347; Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry., 135 U. S.
641.
Neither a tax on a Federal instrumentality nor other
tax which only in a remote way interferes with a Federal
purpose, is void. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125
U. S. 549; Ficklinv. Shelby Co., 145 U. S. 1; Reagan v. Mercantile Co., 154 U. S. 413; Postal Tel. Co. v. Adams, 155
U. S. 687, 696; N. Y., L. E. & W. Ry. v. Pennsylvania,158
U. S. 431; Central Pacificv. California, 162 U. S. 125; Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150; Thomas v.
Gay, 169 U. S. 264; Wagoner v. Evans, 170 U. S. 586;
Montana Mission v. Missoula Co., 200 U. S.118.
The tax is an output, less royalty, and that argues that
it is a property tax.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
By an original bill filed July 19, 1909, in the Circuit
Court of the United States, Eastern District of Oklahoma, appellant sought to enjoin the sheriff of Pittsburg County from collecting taxes claimed by the State
upon the gross sale of coals dug from mines belonging
to the Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians which it leased
and operated. The claim was based on the Oklahoma
statute which provides for a gross revenue tax; and was
resisted upon the ground (among others) that in reality
the demand was for an occupation or privilege tax to
which the appellant could not lawfully be subjected, beCause, as a Federal instrumentality acting under Con-

OCTOBER TMM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U.S.

gressional authority, it had leased and was operating
mines to which the Indians held title. A general demurrer was sustained, and the cause is here by direct
appeal.
No objection has been interposed to the forum selected
or the procedure adopted. Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo &
Co., 223 U. S. 298.
Appellant is a railroad corporation with power to lease
and operate coal mines. In the region formerly known as
Indian Territory-now within the State of Oklahomathe Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians, as wards of the
United States, own a large area of segregated and unallotted lands containing valuable coal deposits which are
not subject to taxation by the State. Tiger v. Western
Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286, 310, '312; Ex parte Webb,
225 U. S. 663, 684.
The act of Congress approved June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30
Stat. 495, 510,-"Curtis Act," ratified, confirmed and
put into effect the Atoka Agreement of April 23, 1897,
between the United States and the Choctaws and Chickasaws, which provided that their coal lands should remain
common property of the members of the tribes; that the
revenues derived therefrom should be used for the education of their children; that the mines thereon should be
under the supervision and control of two trustees appointed by the President and subject to rules prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior; that all such mines should
be operated and the royalties paid into the Treasury of the
United States; that the royalty should be fifteen cents
per ton, with power in the Secretary of the Interior to
reduce or advance the same according to the best interests
of the tribes; and that all lessees should pay fixed sums as
advanced royalties.
In harmony with the provisions of the Curtis Act
appellant secured from the duly appointed trustees leases
of certain mines obligating itself to take out annually

UHOUTAW & (JULF R. R. . HIARRISON,
235 V. S.

Opinion of the Court,

specified amounts of coal, and to pay the stipulated royalty. It proceeded actively to develop these, either
directly or through its agent, and for some years before
the present suit was begun took therefrom large quantities of coal and fully complied with the obligations
assumed.
Section 6 of the Oklahoma statute approved May 26,
1908 (Session Laws, 1908, pp. 640, 642), entitled "An Act
providing for the levy and collection of a gross revenue tax
from . . . persons, firms, corporations or associations
engaged in the mining or production of coal, . .
provides: "Every person, firm, association, or corporation
engaged in the mining, or production, within this state, of
coal
. .
shall, within thirty days after the expiration of each quarter annual period expiring respectively
on the first day of July, October, January and April of
each year, file with the state auditor a statement under
oath, on forms prescribed by him, showing the location
of each mine .
.
operated by such person, firm,
association, or corporation during the last preceding
quarter annual period, the kind of mineral; . . . the
gross amount thereof produced; the actual cash value
thereof; . . . and shall at the same time, pay to the
state treasurer a gross revenue tax, which shall be in
addition to the taxes levied, and collected upon an ad
valorem basis upon such mining . . . property and
the appurtenances thereunto belonging, equal to two per
centum of the gross receipts from the total production
of coal therefrom . . ." An amendment of March 27,
1909, (Laws 1909, p. 624) changed the quarterly periods
and reduced the rate on receipts to one-half of one per
centum.
Appellants furnished the auditor with a statement of
the output of the mines operated, but declined to pay the
tax assessed upon the gross receipts from sales. Thereupon the sheriff, under directions of the auditor, was

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

about to enforce the demand by a levy, and the present
bill was filed to restrain him.
From the foregoing it seems manifest that' the agreement with the Indians imposed upon the United States a
definite duty in respect to opening and operating the coal
mines upon their lands, and appellant is the instrumentality through which this obligation is being carried into
effect. Such an agency cannot be subjected to an occupation or privilege tax by a State. M'Culloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 425; Farmers Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S.
516. But it is insisted that the statute rightly understood
prescribed only an ad valorem imposition on the personal
property owned by appellant-the coal at the pit's
mouth,-which is permissible according to many opinions
of this court. Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579;
Union Pacific Railroad v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; Central
Pacific Railroad v. California, 162 U. S. 91; Thomas v.
Gay, 169 U. S.264.
The court below held that the effect of the act was to
lay a valid tax on personalty, and the same result was
subsequently reached by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma.
McAlester-Edwards Coal Co. v. Trapp, 38 Oklahoma, 792,
794. The United States District Court for the Western
District of Oklahoma arrived at a different conclusion.
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Meyer, 204 Fed. Rep.
140.
Neither state courts nor legislatures by giving a tax
a particular name, or by the use of some form of words,
can take away our duty to consider its real nature and effect. Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. v. Texas,
210 U. S. 217, 227.
It is unnecessary to consider the power of the State of
Oklahoma to treat coals dug from mines operated by the
appellant as other personalty and to subject them to a
uniform ad valorem tax, for it seems to us clear that the
act of 1908 provided for no such imposition. Its very

CHOCTAW & GULF R. R. v. HARRISON.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

language imposes a "gross revenue tax which'shall be in
addition to the taxes levied and collected upon an ad
valorem basis." We cannot, therefore, conclude that the
gross receipts were intended merely to represent the measure of the value of property liable to a general assessment-provisioni is made for determining that upon a
different basis. Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223
U. S. 298, 301. The requirement is not on account of
property owned on a given day, as is the general custom
where ad valorem taxes are provided for and as the Oklahoma laws require; but the manifest purpose is ,to reach
all sales and secure .a certain percentage thereof-a
method commonly pursued in respect of license and occupation taxes. Pullman Co. v. Knott, ante, p. 23.
A tax upon a merchant's, manufacturer's, or miner's
gross sales is not the same thing as one on his stock treated
as property. Cooley on Taxation (3rd ed.), p. 1095. The
former is upon his business. In effect, the Oklahoma Act
prescribes an occupation tax (Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S.
576, 592); and, accepting as true the allegations of appellant's bill, we think it cannot lawfully be subjected thereto.
The decree of the court below is reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.

