OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

The impossibility of deducing assumption of the risk
from the facts stated is cogently demonstrated by the arguments advanced to establish that the risk was assumed.
Thus it is urged that as in a railroad yard there was danger
to arise from the protrusion of cars negligently placed by
employ6s of the company, a danger which the engineer
must have known might arise, therefore he assumed the
risk of such danger. And again the argument is that even
although the engineer did not know of the protruding cars
and therefore did not consciously incur the great risk to
result from the collision, yet as by proper precaution he
could have discovered the fact that the cars were protruding, he must be considered to have assumed the risk which
resulted from his want of care. But both these arguments
have no relation to the doctrine of assumption of the risk
arid only call for the application of the principle of contributory negligence or of fellow servant.
Affirmed.

EASTERLING LUMBER COMPANY v. PIERCE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No. 589.

Submitted November 30, 1914.-Decided December 14, 1914.

A classification based on the use of engines, locomotives and cars propelled by steam, electricity, gas, gasoline or lever power and running
on tracks, in a state statute, abolishing the prirciple of negligence of
fellow servant as a defense to actions against corporations and individuals for damages, is not so unequal as to deny equal protection of
the law under the Fourteenth Amendment; and so held as to chap.
194, Laws of Mississippi of 1908.
A state statute which cuts off no substantive defense but simply provides a rule of evidence controlling the burden of proof, does not deny

EASTERLING LUMBER CO. v. PIERCE.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

due process of law even when applied in the trial of an action for
injuries sustained prior to the enactment of the statute; and so held
as to chap. 215, Laws of Mississippi of 1912, making proof of the
happening of an accident a primafacie presumption of negligence.
64 So. Rep. 461, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Fourteenth Amendment of two statutes of Mississippi, one
abolishing the defense of fellow servant in certain cases,
and the other creating a presumption of negligence in certain cases, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Edward Mayes and Mr. T. Brady, Jr., for plaintiffs
in error.
Mr. Joseph Hirsh and Mr. E. L. Dent for defendant in
error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

The injuries for which damages were awarded by the
judgment sought to be reviewed (64 So. Rep. 461) happened on a steam logging railroad engaged in purely
domestic business. The power to here review is based on
two constitutional grounds seasonably asserted below assailing two state statutes, the one (chap. 194, Miss. Laws
of 1908, p. 204) enacted before the accident, doing away
in the cases for which it provided with the principle of
fellow servant; and the other (chap. 215, Miss. Laws of
1912, p. 290), enacted after the happening of the accident
but before the trial below, providing that from the proof
of the happening of an accident there should arise a prima
facie presumption of negligence.
The constitutional objection to the first statute is that
the classification for which it provided was so unequal as
to eause the statute to be in conflict with the Fourteenth

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Amendment. The classification was this: "Every employ6 of a railroad corporation, and all other corporations
and individuals, using engines, locomotives or cars of any
kind or description whatsoever, propelled by the dangerous agencies of steam, electricity, gas, gasoline or lever
power, and running on tracks, ..
" That the objection is without merit is so clearly established as to require
only references to the decided cases to that effect. 1
The objection to the second statute is that it was wanting in due process because retroactively applied to the
case since the statute was enacted after the accident occurred. But the court below held that the statute cut off
no substantive defense but simply provided a rule of evidence controlling the burden of proof. That as thus construed it does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States is also so conclusively
settled as to again require nothing but a reference to the
2
decided cases.
As it results that at the time the writ of error was sued
out it had been conclusively settled by the decisions of
this court that both grounds relied upon were devoid of
merit, we think the alleged constitutional questions were
too frivolous to sustain jurisdiction and we therefore maintain the motion which has been made to dismiss and our
judgment will be
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
'Tullis v. Lake Erie & W. R. R., 175 U. S. 348; Minnesota Iron Co.
v. Kline, 199 U. S. 593; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v.,Melton, 218 U. S.
36; Aluminum Company v. Ramsey, 222 U. S. 251.

2 Mobile, J. & K. R. R' v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42-43; Lindsley
v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 82; Reitler v. Harris, 223
U. S. 437, 441-442; Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 25-27.

