MERCELIS v. WILSON.
235 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

classification of that arbitrary and unreasonable nature
which justifies, a court in declaring this legislation unconstitutional.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the State of Ohio is
Affirmed.

MERCELIS v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 68.

Submitted November 6, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

While parties cannot give jurisdiction and may sometimes except to
an erroneous ruling in their favor, in this case held that as the court
had jurisdiction both of parties and subject-matter, the party invoking a ruling to change a bill for injunction to one to quiet title,
cannot ask a reversal on the ground that the court had no power to
grant such a motion.
As this case involved the fixing of a line, when that question was settled
it was proper to quiet the title of each party as against the other;
and as the findings support a decree in accord with the character
of the proceedings asked for by appellant and which prevented a
multiplicity of suits, such a decree was properly entered.
5 P. R. Fed. Rep. 492, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of a decree quieting title to property in Porto Rico, are stated in the
THE

opinion.

Mr. Hector H. Scoville and Mr. Joseph Anderson, Jr., for
appellants.
Mr. Felix Frankfurter, Mr. S

T. Ansell and Mr. Wolcott

H. Pitkin, Jr., Attorney General of Porto Rico, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE LAMAR. delivered the opinion of the court.
On the north shore of the Island of Porto Rico, in the
districts of Arecibo and Manati, there is a slough or swamp
known as El Caio de Tiburones. It is 12 miles l9ng, of
varying width, and was supposed to contain about 7,000
acres, though that was a mere estimate since the exterior
boundaries had not been established. Neither had it
been authoritatively determined whether it was public
land or private property. This uncertainty of boundary
and title was the occasion of much litigation. Catala v.
Grahame, 4 P. R. Fed. Rep. 538.
The Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico treated it as
belonging to the public and, in December, 1907; leased it
to Wenceslao Borda, Jr., with the right to drain, use and
occupy the swamp as a sugar plantation. He was put in
possession by the Porto Rican police, acting under the
orders of the Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner
of the Interior and other officials. For the purpose of
establishing the boundaries they also took part in a survey
which fixed a line running for a distance of about 2 miles
through lands claimed by Mercelis and associates. Borda
/ built a fence along this line and thereupon Mercelis and
other land owners at once filed a bill in equity in the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico claiming
that Borda and the Porto Rican officials had trespassed
upon their property and, with force and arms, had taken
possession of land on which were located valuable fresh
water springs essential to the successful management and
operation of their plantations. They alleged further that
the trespass and marking of the line had already been the
occasion of violent altercations between the respective
parties; that the deprivation of the property and especially
of the fresh water springs would occasion irreparable damage. For that reason, and to avoid a multiplicity of suits,
the court was asked to enjoin Borda and the other defend-

MERCELIS v. WILSON.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ants from entering upon complainants' land, running lines,
digging ditches, erecting fences or committing other trespasses. The defendants filed an answer in which they
denied all of the material allegations of the bill and averred
that they had only entered upon land belonging to the
Government of Porto Rico by virtue of a lease from it.
During the trial the defendants insisted that there was no
equity in the bill, but the court, following Hernandez v.
Ochoa, 4 P. R. Fed. Rep. 400, and Catala v. Grahame, 4
P. R. Fed. Rep. 538, held the remedy at law to be wholly
inadequate and ruled that in view of the nature of the
questions arising under the Spanish law, the case was of a
nature which could not be tried by a jury. There was a
trial lasting many days in which a multitude of witnesses
were examined. There was an irreconcilable conflict in
their testimony as to the boundaries of the swamp and
whether it belonged to the public or to private individuals.
"When the proofs were all in, counsel for the plaintiffs
moved for leave to amend the prayer of their bill so as to
make it conform to the proofs and, in effect, constitute it a
bill to quiet title." The respondents objected, but the
court granted the motion.
The evidence is not in the record but the court delivered an opinion (5, P. R. Fed. Rep. 492) in which he set
out the facts as found by him. He thereupon made a
decree that El Cafto de Tiburones was public property;
that the boundary of the adjacent land extended to the
edge of the swamp and not to the channel or canal in the
centre; that the springs, which were the main cause of the
controversy, were the property of the plaintiffs; that wherever the line encroached upon high ground it should be
relocated so as to run a few feet within the edge of the
well defined swamp, and directed that a surveyor should
mark and stake the line as designated in the decree.
There was a motion and a supplemental motion for a rehearing which were denied and the case was brought to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

this court on a record containing sixteen assignments of
error, in which appellants complain of the findings against
them; insist that the court erred in holding that equity
had jurisdiction to decide the question of title, and in not
sending that question to a court of law to be determined
by a jury. They contend that it was error, in a proceeding
involving title to what was claimed to be public land, to
enter a decree in a case to which the Island of Porto Rico
was not a party; that the court erred in establishing the
line and in deciding the question of title adversely to the
appellants; and that in a proceeding in which the sole relief
prayed was an injunction, he erred in entering a decree
in which he neither granted nor denied the injunction.
The original bill prayed for purely equitable relief by
injunction, and if the case be treated as a suit in equity,
which was to proceed "in the same manner as a circuit
court" of the United States (April 12, 1900, c. 191, 31
Stat. 77, 84, ยง 34), then there was, of course, no right to
demand a trial by jury, although, in its discretion, the
court could have taken the verdict of a jury on any issue
of fact upon which he desired their finding. On the other
hand, if it be treated as a proceeding in a statutory court
whose jurisdiction and form of procedure were to be in
conformity with the Porto Rican law (31 Stat. 84, ยง 33),
there was nothing to prevent the adoption and enforcement of rules by which relief could be afforded through
the intervention of a jury or by the court itself. Ely v.
New Mexico R. R., 129 U. S. 291, 293; Hornbuckle v.
Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, 654.
It is, however, not necessary to separately consider each
of the sixteen assignments of error since they relate to
rulings none of which is erroneous if the court, acting on
the appellant's motion to amend, was justified in treating
the proceeding as in the nature of a bill to quiet title. For
in that event there was not only no right to a trial by jury
but it was not error, as against the parties to the record, to

MERCELIS v. WILSON.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

make a decree appropriate to such a bill instead of denying
or granting the prayer of the original Bill for Injunction.
The appellants insist,, however, that even with their
consent, the court could not, without a cross-bill, make
a decree quieting the title. In this view of the case they
rely upon the assignment of error that "the court erred
in suggesting and allowing the plaintiffs to amend their
bill to conform to the proof after the trial of the issues,
and the prayer of their bill in such a way as to change the
nature and character of the bill from a bill for an injunction to a bill to quiet title."
The defendants did not appeal and the appellants cannot be heard to complain of the court's action in granting
their own motion. Parties cannot give jurisdiction and
may sometimes except to an erroneous ruling of the court
in their favor. Capron v. Van Noorden, 2 Cranch, 126;
United States v. Huckabee, 16 Wall. 414, 433; Mansfield
&c. Ry. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 382.
But in this case the court had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and of the parties before it, and therefore the
appellants cannot ask for a reversal because of a ruling
which, if not actually invoked, was voluntarily acted upon
by them when they assented that the Bill should be converted into a proceeding to quiet title. Cowley v. Northern
PacificR. R., 159 U. S. 569; Perego v. Dodge, 163 U. S. 160;
United States v. Memphis, 97 U. S. 284; Connell v. Smiley,
156 U. S. 335; Bethell v. Mathews, 13 Wall. 1, 2. The case
involved the fixing of a. line. When that question was
settled it was proper to quiet the title of each party as
against the other up to the line thus established. The
findings support the decree, which not only operated to
prevent the multiplicity of suits referred to in the original
bill, but was in accord with the character of the proceedings, which the appellants themselves asked the court to
make. The decree is
Affirmed.

