HENRY v. HENKEL.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

privileges were renewed and extended by this act because
of the public benefits to be derived from such utilities.
When, therefore, the Minidoka & Southwestern Railroad
Company, in 1909, secured grants to.the continuous strip
through the reclamation area, the Company, by virtue
of these public statutes and the private grants, was authorized to construct its road not only across the agricultural lands, but over the intervening ditches and canals.
For, while the latter formed a part of the irrigation unit,
they were also particularly appurtenant to the lands
through and along which they ran.
These various acts of Congress operated to give its consent, in advance, to the construction of such a highway
and instrumentality of commerce, notwithstanding any
interest the United States may have had in the lands described in the deeds from the homesteaders to the Railroad
Company.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the Circuit Court for the District of Idaho is
affirmed.

HENRY v. HENKEL, UNITED STATES MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 216.

Argued February 24, 25, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

No hard and fast rule has as yet been announced as to how far the court
will go in passing upon questions raised in habeas corpus proceedings.
Barring exceptional cases, the general rule is that on applications for
habeas corpus, the hearing is confined to the single question of jurisdiction, and even that will not be decided in every case.
The hearing on habeas corpus is not in the nature of a writ of error, nor
is it intended as a substitute for the functions of the trial court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

235 U. S.

This rule applies equally whether the petitioner is committed for
trial within the district or held under warrant of removal to another
State. Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241.
A citizen canot be held for custody or removed for trial where there
is no provision of common law or statute making an offense of the
acts charged, as in such case the committing court would have no jurisdiction as the prisoner would be in custody without warrant of law.
Every act of Congress is presumptively valid and a committing magistrate cannot properly treat as invalid a statutory declaration of what
should constitute an 'offense except where the act is palpably void.
Whether Congress has power to compel a witness'in a congressional inquiry to make material and non-criminatory disclosures, and whether
the district judge has jurisdiction to commit on the ground that the
statute punishing the witness for refusal to disclose is unconstitutional, are questions for the determination of the trial court and not
on a proceeding in habeas corpus.
207 Ped. Rep. 805, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of courts on
habeas corpus proceedings and to what extent the court
will pass upon questions of jurisdiction and the merits of
the case before the trial, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John C. Spooner, with whom Mr. Paul D. Cravath,
Mr. John D. Lindsay and Mr. Stuart McNamara were on
the brief, for appellant:
The petitioner was not a wilfully recalcitrant witness.
Even though the language of the statute were susceptible of a construction broad enough to cover the case at
bar, it should not be so construed because such a construction was not within the intention of Congress.
Such a construction would be repugnant to the representative character of the American government.
That there was an intention on the part of Congress
that the act should not apply to inquiries in aid of legislation is implied in the title.
This is made plain by a consideration of the act as a
whole. It contains no provision for the judicial deter-

HENRY v. HENKEL.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

mination of the pertinency or relevancy of questions,
which is usual in statutes authorizing inquiries in aid of
legislation, before proceeding to imprison the witness for
his refusal to answer. The first section refers only to those
matters in respect of which Congress may competently
take definitive action; the presence of the word "pertinent" is inconsistent with any other view; the second or
immunity clause demonstrates the purpose of so limiting
the operation of the act. This intent is confirmed by the
language of the third section.
For the situation as it existed at the time the act was
passed and as it was pressed upon the attention of Congress, see the Simonton Case and report of the select
committee and introduction of the bill.
The history of the period is shown by the debates.
Cong. Globe, 34th Cong., 3d Sess., pp. 275 et seq.
This is the first occasion on which an attempt has been
made to have the statute construed as applying to inquiries in aid of legislation. See Cases of Wolcott in 1858;
of Kilbourn in 1876; of Chapman in 1894.
If the statute is to be so construed as to make it applicable to inquiries in aid of legislation it is unconstitutional.
Any forcible intrusion into and compulsory exposure
of the private affairs of the individual except when the
general good requires it, is violative of the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments.
The power to invade the right of privacy can be justified only on the ground of necessity; such a power is not
necessary for the exercise by Congress of its function of
legislation. This question was raised but not decided in
Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168. It was expressly
decided in the negative by the Privy Council in Kielley v.
Carson, 4 Moore, P. C. 63, a decision which this court has
treated with high respect.
The, decisions holding that state legislatures possess

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

235 U. S.

the power are not conclusive here as Congress has not always thought it had the power; nor is the practice of recent
years evidence of the constitutionality of the practice.
The questions which the appellant refused to answer
were not pertinent to the question under inquiry nor
was the information which they sought to elicit necessary
or material.
If the committee had known the names of the national
bank officers which the appellant refused to disclose,
they would not have been able to examine, through such
officers, or otherwise, into the transactions or affairs of
the banks themselves.
In support of these contentions, see Matter of Barnes,
204 N. Y. 108; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616;
Briggs v. Mackellar, 2 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 30; Burnham
v. Morrissey, 14 Gray,. 226; Chapman Case, Smiths
Digest, 583;.In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661; Cooper's
Case, 32 Vermont, 253; Matter of Davies, 168 N. Y. 89;
Doyie v. Falconer, L. R., 1 P. C. 328; In re Falvey,
7 Wisconsin, 630; Fenton v. Hampton, 11 Moore, P. C.
347; Guthrie v. Harkness, 199 U. S. 148; Harriman v.
Int. Com. Comm., 211 U. S. 407; Heike v. United States,
227 U. S. 131; Int. Com. Comm. -v. Brimson, 154 U. S.
447; Kielley v. Carson, 4 Moore, P. C. 63; Kilbourn Case,
Smith's Digest, 536; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S.
168; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; McLean
v. United States, 226 U. S.374; Muskrat v. United States,
219 U. S.346; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S.
370; Oceanic Nay. Co. v. Stranahan,214 U. S. 320; Omaha
Street Ry. v. Int. Com. Comm., 230 U. S.324; In re Pacific
Ry. Comm., 32 Fed. Rep. 241; McDonald v. Keeler, 99
N. Y. 463; Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; Robinson v.
Phil. & R. R. Co., 28 Fed. Rep. 340; Simonton Case,
Smith's Digest, 85; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall.' 36;
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.1; Stockdale v.
Hansard, 9 Ad. & E. 1; United States v. Press Publishing

HENRY v. HENKEL.
235 U. S.

Argument for United States.

Co., 219 U. S. 1; United States v. Trans-Missouri Assn.,
166 U. S. 290; Wertheim v. Continental R. & T. Co., 15
Fed. Rep. 716; Wolcott Case, Smith's Digest, 201.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. W. C. Herron was
on the brief, for the United States:
The points attempted to be made by appellant are not
open in this proceeding. Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S. 73;
Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S.
420; Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249; Hyde v. Shine, 199
U. S. 62; In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211; Johnson v. Hoy,
227 U. S. 245; Riggins v. United States, 199 U. S. 547;
Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U.. S. 20.
Revised Statutes, § 102, covers an investigation of the
character undertaken in the case at bar. In re Chapman,
166 U. S. 661.
Revised Statutes, §§ 102 et seq., are constitutional' In
re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168.
For state court decisions upholding the power of a legislative body to summon witnesses and to compel them to answer questions on inquiry in aid of legislation, see Briggs
v. Mackellar, 2 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 30; Burnham v. Morrissey,
14 Gray, 226; McDonald v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463; Wickelhausen v. Willett, 10 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 164 (aff'd Wilckens
v. Willet, 1 Keyes, 521).
The questions were pertinent to the inquiry.
In support of these contentions, see Beavers v. Henkel,
194 U. S. 73; Benson v..Henkel, 198 U. S. 1; Briggs v.
Mackellar, 2 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 30; Burnham v. Morrissey,
14 Gray, 226; Doyle v. Falconer, L. R. 1 P. C. 328; Fenton
v. Hampton, 11 Moore, P. C. 347; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225
U. S. 420; Grant v. United States, 227 U. S. 74; Greene v.
Henkel, 183 U. S. 249; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62; Hyde v.
United States, 225 U. S. 347; In re Chapman, 156 U. S. 211;
In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661; In re Falvey, 7 Wisconsin,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

630; Int. Com. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Johnson
v. Hoy, 227 U. S. 245; Kielley v. Carson, 4 Moore, P. C.
63; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; McDonald v.
Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463; Riggins v. United States, 199 U. S.
547; Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20; Wickelhausen v.
Willett, 10 Abb. Pr. (N. Y.) 164 (aff'd in Wilckens v.
Willet, 1 Keyes, 521)..
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
In the 62nd Congress, the House of Representatives
(H. R. 429, 504) adopted a resolution authorizing the
members of the Committee on Banking and Currency to
investigate and make a report as to the financial affairs
and activities of National Banks, interstate corporations
and groups of financiers as a basis for remedial and other
legislative purposes. To that end the Committee was
authorized to send for persons and papers and to swear
witnesses.
Amofig those summoned and sworn was the appellant,
George G. Henry, who was examined at length as to many
matters relating to the formation of syndicates and the
flotation of stock. He testified that he was a member of
the firm of Salamon & Co., bankers in New York, who
were accustomed to form syndicates for the acquisition
and sale of blocks of stock and to grant participation
therein to trust companies and national banks-their
directors and corporate officers also being frequently
members of the same syndicate. In reference to one of
these transactions he testified that Salamon & Co. had
agreed to pay $8,215,262 for $22,500,000 preferred and
common stock in a California oil company; thereupon
Salamon & Co., Lewisohn Bros., Hallgarten & Co..,
bankers in New York, together with a fourth banking
firm (whose name witness did not disclose) had then
formed a syndicate for acquiring and disposing of this

HENRY v. HENKEL.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

$22,500,000 of oil stock. He testified how the shares were
allotted, and that 12/2 per cent. went to the unnamed
persons in the banking group; that in the subsequent
disposition of the stock a number of shares were acquired
by 15 individuals, some of whom were officers of National
Banks located in New York, Chicago and Detroit. Other
shares were allotted to those who were officers in Trust
Companies in New York and Chicago. Letters were
written offering to allot part of this oil stock to the New
York syndicate, but before acceptance of the allotment all
of the stock had been sold at a profit of nearly'$500,000, a
part of which went to the members of the New York
syndicate (officers of banks), even though they had not
previously accepted the allotment. They thus, in effect,
received a present of their share of the profits. He was
asked to give the names of those composing the New York
syndicate, but claimed to have the right under the Constitution to decline to answer the question, saying also
that he "'did not want to disclose the names of the participants in the New York syndicate, although he understood it to be the wish of the subcommittee that he should,
for the reason that he would consider it dishonorable to
reveal the names of his customers unless compelled to do
so.",
The Committee ordered the fact of his refusal to answer
to be reported to the House for action-majority and
minority reports being made. After discussion, the
House of Representatives directed that the facts should
be laid before the Grand Jury of the District of Columbia.
That body returned an indictment against Henry charging
him with refusing to answer questions propounded by the
Committee. Rev. Stat., §§ 101-104. A warrant issued
and Henry was arrested in New York and when taken
before the Commissioner demanded an examination.
On the hearing and before the introduction of any
testimony, he moved for his discharge on the ground that
VoL. ccxxxv-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

the Commissioner was without jurisdiction, since it appeared on the face of the complaint that petitioner was
not charged with any offense against the United States.
The motion was denied and, it having been admitted
that Henry was the person described in the indictment, the
Government introduced the bench warrant and a certified
copy of the indictment as sufficient proof of probable
cause.
The petitioner then offered in evidence the Resolution
defining the scope of the inquiry, with a transcript of his
testimony before the Committee-including the question
which he refused to answer and his reasons therefor.
Copies of the majority and minority Reports to the House
were also incorporated in the record. After argument
the Commissioner ordered Henry to be held in custody
until the District Judge could issue a warrant for his
removal to the District of Columbia under the provisions
of Section 1014, Revised Statutes.
Thereupon Henry applied to the District Judge for a
writ of habeas corpus, and on the hearing introduced all of
the testimony that had been submitted to the Commissioner, and asked for his discharge on grounds similar to
those which had been presented to the committing magistrate.
After argument the District Judge discharged the writ,
and an appeal was entered to this court where petitioner's
counsel, renewing the objections made in the District
Court, insist that the Resolution did not authorize an
inquiry as to the matter about which Henry refused to
testify; that the facts charged do not constitute an offense
under the statute; or, if so, that the statute is void. On
the authority of In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, 668;
Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, and other cases,
they insist that in the trial of contested elections, in cases
involving the expulsion of members, or other quasi-judicial
proceedings, the House or Senate may, like any other

HENRY v. HENKEL.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court, compel material and non-criminatory disclosures.
But they argue that, in View of the provisions of the
Fourth Amendment to the Constitution, neither House
can compel a citizen to disclose his private affairs as a basis
for legislation-particularly where, as in the present case,
the witness was not contumacious, but had fully and
freely answered all material questions; had disclosed the
fact that National Banks and their officers were often
members of the same syndicate, and had only refused to
give the names of certain bank officials when the names
themselves could not by any possibility be of assistance in
shaping legislation. They, therefore, contend that the
papers show on their face that there was no jurisdiction
to issue the warrant on which he was held and that Henry
should not be subjected to the hardship of being removed
to the District of Columbia to stand trial upon an indictment which affirmatively shows that no crime has been
committed.
The Government, on the other hand, insists that Rev.
Stat., § 104, is constitutional and that Congress may provide for the punishment of witnesses who, in answer to a
question propounded by its authority, fail to make noncriminatory disclosures and furnish information deemed
necessary as a basis for legislation.
These important and far-reaching questions, though
elaborately argued, should not be decided on this record,
in View of the rule, relied on by the Government, that
such issues must primarily be determined by the trial
court.
The petitioner, however, relying specially on Greene v.
Henkel, 183. U. S. 249, 261; Beavers v. Henkel, 194 U. S.
73; Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20, claims that as this is a
removal case, with the special hardships attendant thereon,
it is to be distinguished from those in which the foregoing
rule has been announced.
When a person under arrest applies for discharge on

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

writ of habeas corpus the issue presented is whether he is
unlawfully restrained of his liberty. Rev. Stat., § 752.
But there is no unlawful restraint where he is held under a
valid order of commitment, so that in strict logic the
inquiry might extend to the legal sufficiency of the order.
In view, however, of the nature of the writ and of the
character of the detention under a warrant, no hard and
fast rule has been announced as to how far the court will
go in passing upon questions raised in habeas corpus proceedings. In cases which involve a conflict of jurisdiction between state and Federal authorities, or where the
treaty rights and obligations of the United States are
involved, and in that class of cases pointed out in Ex parte
Royall, 117 U. S. 241; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163;
New York v. Eno, 155 U. S. 89; In re Loney, 134 U. S. 372,
the court hearing the application will carefully inquire
into any matter involving the legality of the detention
and remand or discharge as the facts may require. But,
barring such exceptional cases, the general rule is that, on
such applications, the hearing should be confined to the
single question of jurisdiction, and even that will not be
decided in every case in which it is raised. For otherwise
the "h abeas corpus courts could thereby draw to themselves, in the first instance, the control of all prosecutions
in state and Federal courts." To establish a general rule
that the courts on habeas corpus, and in advance of trial,
should determine every jurisdictional question would
interfere with the administration of the criminal law and
afford a means by which, with the existing right of appeal,
delay could be secured when the Constitution contemplates that there shall be a speedy trial' both in the interest of the public, and as a right to the defendant.
The question has been before this court in many casessome on original application and others on writ of error;
in proceedings which began after arrest and before commitment; after commitment and before conviction; after

HENlRY v. HENKEL.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

conviction and before review. The applications were
based on the ground of the insufficiency of the charge,
the insufficiency of the evidence, or the unconstitutionality of the statute, state or Federal, on which the charge
was -based. In some of the cases the applicants have
advanced the same arguments that are here pressed,
including that of the hardship of being taken to a distant
State for trial upon an indictment alleged to be void.
But in all these instances, and notwithstanding the
variety of forms in which the question has been presented,
the court, with the exceptions named, has uniformly
held that the hearing on habeas corpus is not in the nature
of a writ of error nor is it intended as a substitute for the
functions of the trial court. Manifestly, this is true as
to disputed questions of fact, and it is equally so as to
disputed matters of law, whether they relate to the'sufficiency of the indictment or the validity of the statute
on which the charge is based. These and all other controverted matters of law and fact are for the determination
of the trial court. If the objections are sustained or if
the defendant is acquitted he will be discharged. If
they are overruled and he is convicted he has his right
of review. Kaizo v. Henry, 211 U. S. 146, 148. The rule
is the same whether he is committed for trial in a court
within the district or held under a warrant of removal
to another State. He cannot, in either case, anticipate
the regular course of proceeding by alleging a want of
jurisdiction and demanding a ruling thereon in habeas
corpus proceedings. Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420; In
re Gregory, 219 U. S. 210; Ex parte Simon, 208 U. S. 144;
Johnson v. Hoy, 227 U. S. 245; Urquhart v. Brown, 205
U. S. 179; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62; Beavers v. Henkel,
194 U. S. 73; Riggins v. United States, 199 U. S. 547, 551;
Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241.
The last of these decisions is particularly in point not
only because of the applicability of its reasoning to the

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

present case, but because of the fact that the writ was
there denied even though the statute, on which the charge
was based, was ultimately held to be void. Royall v.
Virginia, 116 U. S. 572,579, 583; Same v. Same, 121 U. S.
102, 104; In re Royall, 125 U. S. 696.
The cases cited do not, of course, lead to the conclusion
that a citizen can be held in custody or removed for trial
where there was no provision of the common law or
statute making an offense of the acts charged. In such
case the committing court would have no jurisdiction,
the prisoner would be in custody without warrant of law
and therefore entitled to his discharge. Greene v. Henkel,
183 U. S. 249, 261. But the presumption is in favor of
the validity of every act of Congress and it would not be
proper for the committing magistrate to treat as invalid
a statutory declaration of what should constitute an
offense, except in those rare and extreme cases in which
the act was plainly and palpably void.
Neither the issue nor the basis of the decision is changed
when the person held under the warrant applies to a
District Judge for discharge on writ of habeas corpus.
So likewise the same issue and the same rule of decision
must govern when the case is here on appeal from the
order of the habeas corpus tribunal. It follows therefore
that this court should not on this record pass on the jurisdictional questions presented. They like all other controverted issues in the case are for the determination of
the courts of the District of Columbia when the defendant
is therein put to his trial.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

