WATHEN v. JACKSON OIL CO.
235 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

itself" of the plaintiff and her children to the deceased a
factor to be considered in fixing the amount of pecuniary
,damages. If the objection had been so special and explicit it might have been yielded to. At any rate, it was
wrong because of its generality and should not now be
regarded. The judgment, therefore, should be affirmed.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR.
JUSTICE HUGHES

concur in this dissent.

WATHEN v. JACKSON OIL & REFINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 79.

Submitted November 9, 1914.-Decided Januasy 11, 1915.

The right to restrain the enforcement of a statute as an unconstitutional deprivation of its property is a right existing in the corporation
itself, and a stockholder is not entitled to maintain such an action
without clearly showing that he has exhausted the means within his
reach to obtain action by the corporation in conformity to his wishes.
Under Equity Rule No. 27 (formerly No. 94) in order to conferjurisdiction upon a Federal court of a suit by a stockholder to enforce a
remedy belonging to the corporation the bill must allege not only
that the suit is not a collusive one for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction but that unsuccessful efforts have been made' to induce the
corporation to bring the suit or the reasons for not making such
efforts.
A bare assertion, by a stockholder in a suit to enjoin the officers of a
corporation from complying with a statute alleged to be unconstitutional, that the officers and directors do not wish to comply with it
but intend to for fear of incurring penalties, without stating any
ground for dispensing with efforts to procure action by the corporation, is not sufficient under Equity Rule No. 27.

facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain
provisions of the ten-hour labor law of Mississippi and
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

235 U. S.

the right of a stockholder of a corporation to enjoin the
corporation from complying with those provisions, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marcellus Green and Mr. Garner Wynn Green for
appellant:
Chapter 157, Laws of Mississippi, 1912, unconstitutionally restrains the liberty of contract. Undue elevation
of state police power at the expense of private constitutional right is a fundamental error. The State is without
poVer to prohibit the making of a purely personal contract. Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412;
Chicago &c. R. R. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 565; Allegeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Smith v. Texas, 233 U. S. 630;
Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671; Sturges v. Beauchamp, 231 U. S. 320; Central Lumber Co. v. State, 226
U. S. 157; Rosenthal v. People, 226 U. S. 260; Schmidinger
v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 578; Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S.
370; Chicago &c. Ry. v. Hackett, 228 U. S. 559.
Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, and Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, rightly hold that protection of the health
and morals, as well as the lives, of citizens, is within the
police power of the state legislature, but those cases are
inapplicable here. And see Buckeye Oil Co. v. State, 60
So. Rep. 776.
The business of a cotton oil mill has not that which
brought the law of New York into favor with the minority
opinion of this court in Lochner v. New York, supra. This
statute is purely a labor law and not a health measure.
And see Ex parte Fred Martin, 26 L. R. A. (N. S.) 246.
In determining whether an act, limiting the hours of
labor in any occupation, is in violation of the provisions
of the Federal Constitution, the primary consideration
is whether or not the occupation possesses such characteristics of danger to the health of those engaged in it

WATHEN v. JACKSON OIL CO.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

as to justify the legislature in concluding that the welfare
of the community demand s a restriction. New York v.
Williams, 12 L. R. A. (N. S.) 1130.
. This act attempts to legislate upon a subject over
which the State is without power. See Milsicek v. State,
225 Missouri, 561; People v. Williams, 189 N. Y. 131;
S. C., 116 App. Div. 397; In re Ten Hour Law, 24 R. I.
603; Eight Hour Bill, 21 Colorado, 29; Low v. Reese Printing Co., 41 Nebraska, 454; Wheeling Bridge Co. v. Gilmore,
8 Ohio C. C. 658.
The act arbitrarily classifies manufacturers and repairers, without regard to health or hazard, excluding
from its operation persons and corporations whose employ~s perform services of identical character, and so
violates the Federal Constitution. Hing v. Crowley, .113
U. S. 709; Gulf &c. R. R. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 159; Magoun
v. Illinois Trust Co., 170 U. S. 283.
The act violates the Federal Constitution, in that,
in the fines imposed and obedience thereby obtained, it is
confscatory. Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 163; Dobbins
v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 241.
Where property rights will be destroyed, unlawful
interference by criminal proceedings under a void law or
ordinance may be reached and controlled by a decree of a
court of equity. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466.
Mr. Frank Johnston and Mr. Ross A. Collins, Attorney
General of the State of Mississippi, for appellees:
The complainant, a shareholder in the Jackson Oil. &
Refining Company, has no right to file, or maintain, the
bill in this case. The United States court at Jackson has
no jurisdiction of the case.
Section 266, Judicial Code, does not extend the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, but only gives authority for
the issuance of injunctions in already pending cases in the
mode and manner prescribed in. this statute, and where the

638 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

jurisdiction exists in a Federal court. And a court of
equity, neither state nor Federal, has any criminal jurisdiction, and the Federal court of equity having no
jurisdiction in respect to criminal cases, ยง 266 does not
apply to injunctions in such cases.
The Mississippi-statute of 1912, regulating the hours of
labor in the State in manufacturing establishments, is
valid and constitutional.
MR.

JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of the oourt.

The appellant brought this suit in the District Court to
restrain the Jackson Oil & Refining Company, its manager
and officers, from complying with a statute of Mississippi
prohibiting employment in described occupations for
more than ten hours a day, except in cases of emergency
or public necessity (Chapter 157, Laws of Mississippi,
1912, p. 165) and to enjoin the other defendants (certain,
public officers) from enforcing its provisions as against
that company.
It was alleged in the bill, in substance, that the defendant corporation was engaged in operating a cotton seed
oil mill of the value of $100,000; that the complainant
owned five hundred and two shares of its stock of the par
value of one hundred dollars each and of the actual value,
of $60,000; that the business required that the mill should
be operated continuously, both day and night, two shifts
of laborers being employed; that the employment was
under wholesome conditions, without any detriment to
the physical, mental and moral well-being of those employed; that the statute, if enforced, would work a deprivation of liberty of contract and of property, and an
arbitrary discrimination, contrary to the Fourteenth
Amendment; that compliance with the statute would involve greatly increased cost of operation and render the
corporation insolvent and its property valueless, to the

WATHEN v. JACKSON OIL CO.
23b U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

complainant's injury; that the statute had been sustained
by the Supreme Court of Mississippi in a suit. against
another manufacturing company; that, although the
officers of the defendant corporation desired to disobey the
statute, they were complying therewith being constrained
to obedience through fear of the enormous penalties imposed; and that these penalties were so severe that no
owner or operator in the position of the defendant corporation could invoke the jurisdiction of a court to test
the validity of the statute, except at the risk of confisca-

tion.
Those defendants who were public officers demurred to
the bill upon the grounds (among others) that the complainant as a stockholder of the corporation had no right
to sue; that the bill could not be maintained to -restrain
the enforcement of the criminal law of the State; and that
the statute was ,constitutional.
An application for a preliminary injunction was heard
on the bill and demurrer and was denied, and from the
order entered to this effect the complainant appeals to
this court. Judicial Code, ยง 266.
The objection urged below, and repeated- here, that the
complainant has failed to show any right to maintain this
suit must be sustained. The right of action to restrain
the enforcement of the statute as an unconstitutional
deprivation of the liberty and property of the corporation
was a right existing in the corpdration itself, and a stockholder was not entitled to sue without showing to the
satisfaction of the court that he had. exhausted the means
within his reach to obtain action by the corporation in
conformity with his wishes. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S.
450, 460, 461; Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S. 537, 541, 542;
Quincy v. Steel, 120 U. S.241, 248; Doctor v. Harrington,
196 U. S.579, 588. The former equity rule (Rule 94, 210
U. S. 541) provided not only that the bill must allege
that the suit was 'not a collusive one to confer upon a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

court of the United States jurisdiction of a case of which
it would not otherwise have cognizance,' but that the bill
'must also set forth with particularity the efforts of the
plaintiff to secure such action as he desires on the part
of the managing directors or trustees, and, if necessary,
of the shareholders, and the cause of his failure to obtain
such action.' The present rule (Rule 27, 226 U. S. Appx.,
p. 8) adds to this provision the words,-' or the reasons
for not making such effort'; and these reasons, of course,
must be adequate. The rule embraces those cases where
the wrong to the corporation arises from unconstitutional
legislation. Corbus v. Alaska Gold Mining Co., 187 U. S.
455; Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S.
207, 220; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 143. Here,
while it is averred that the suit is not a collusive one in
order to confer a jurisdiction which would not otherwise
exist, there is no allegation that the complainant has
made any request that the corporation should bring the
suit to prevent the alleged invasion of its rights; nor does
it appear that, by reason of antagonistic control of the
corporation, such a request would be futile. Although
apparently the holder of a majority of its stock, the complainant does not show any effort whatever to induce the
corporation to sue. He contents himself with asserting
in effect that, though the directors and officers do not
wish to comply with the statute, they will do so through
fear of its penalties. But this reason is palpably inadequate inasmuch as the corporation itself would be entitled to protection against the imposition of such penalties
as would virtually deny access to the courts for the protection of rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution.
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S., p. 147; Willcox v. Consolidated
Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 53, 54; Missouri Pacific Rwy. v.
Tucker, 230 U. S. 340, 351; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S.
576, 587; Wadley Southern Rwy. v. Georgia, decided this
day, post, p. 651. The allegations of the bill show no

DOWAGIAC MFG. CO. v. MINNESOTA PLOW CO.
235 U. S.

641

Syllabus.

ground for dispensing with efforts to procure action by
the corporation; and in this view, without discussing the
merits of the case, we are of the opinion that the complainant was not entitled to the injunction sought.
Order affirmed.

DOWAGIAC MANUFACTURING COMPANY
MINNESOTA MOLINE PLOW COMPANY.

v.

DOWAGIAC

v.

MANUFACTURING
SMITH.

COMPANY

WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 6, 7.

Argued April 15, 16, 19.13.-Decided January 11, 1915.

Where a patent is infringed by selling machines embodying improvements covered by the patent and the value of the machines as
marketable articles is attributable in part to the patented improvements and in part to unpatented parts or features, the profits
arising from the infringing sales belong to the owner of the patent
in so far as they are attributable to the patented improvements,
and in so far as they are due to the other parts or features they
belong to the seller.
Upon an accounting in a suit for such infringement the commingled
profits resulting from selling the machines in completed and operative form should be separated or apportioned between what was
covered by the patent and what was not covered by it.
If the plaintiff's patent covered only a part of the infringing machine
and created only a part of the profits, he is required to take the
initiative in presenting evidence looking to an apportionment.
In an apportionment of profits mathematical exactness is not indispensable, reasonable approximation being what is required,
and it usually may be attained through the testimony of experts
and persons informed by observation and experience.
The result to be accomplished by an apportionment is a rational
VOL. CCXXXV- 41

