OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

235 U. S.

DREW, SHERIFF OF COOS COUNTY, NEW
HAMPSHIRE, v. THAW.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.

No. 514. Argued December 11, 1914.-Decided December 21, 1914.
A State may enact that a conspiracy to accomplish what an individual
is free to do shall be a crime.
The New York Penal Law, §§ 580, 583, making an agreement to commit any act for the perversion of justice or the due administration
of the laws a misdemeanor if an overt act is committed, may include
the withdrawal by connivance of a person from an insane asylum to
which he had duly been committed by order of court as a lunatic.
A party to a crime who afterwards leaves the State is a fugitive from
justice; and, for purposes of interstate rendition, it'does not matter
what motive induced the departure.
The purpose of the writ of habeas corpus is not to substitute the judgment'of another tribunal upon the facts or the law of the matter
to be tried.
The Federal Constitution peremptorily requires that upon proper
demand the person charged with crime shall be delivered up to be
removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime. There is no
discretion allowed nor any inquiry into motives; nothing is said in
regard to habeas corpus and the technical sufficiency of the indictment is not open.
Questions as to the sufficiency of an indictment charging an admittedly
insane person with having committed a crime, are for the courts of
the State having jurisdiction of the crime to determine according to
the law of that State. They cannot be determined by the courts of
another State'on habeas corpus proceedings in interstate rendition.
The constitutionally required surrender of an identified fugitive from
justice on a demand made in due form is not to be interfered with by
the summary process of habeas corpus upon speculation as to what
ought to be the result of a trial in the place where the Constitution
provides for its taking place.
THE facts, which involve questions arising out of a
demand made by the Governor of one State upon the

DREW v. THAW.
.235 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Governor of another State for the rendition of a fugitive
from justice who had been indicted by the demanding
State for conspiracy to effect his own escape from the
State Asylum to which he had been committed as a
lunatic by order of the court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William Travers Jerome and Mr. Franklin Kennedy,
with whom Mr. James A. Parsons was on the brief, for
appellant:
The State of New York does not claim as a basis for the
rendition of the petitioner that any right exists on its part
to recover, in interstate rendition proceedings, custody of
Thaw on the ground that he is an insane person who has
escaped from the custody of the State, his legal guardian;
nor that to escape from the State Hospital, after being
legally committed thereto, was a crime under the laws of
the State of New York.
. The petitioner has not been indicted in the State of
New York for escaping from the Matteawan State Hospital, nor for a conspiracy to commit a crime.
The indictment is for conspiracy to pervert and obstruct justice and the due administration of the law.
Every element required to warrant interstate rendition
of petitioner exists in the case at bar.
The indictment accompanying the demand charges a
crime even though it appears therefrom that the petitioner
was confined in an insane asylum.
In interstate rendition the good faith or ultimate purpose of the demanding State may not be inquired into.
The indictment is technically correct.
In support of these contentions see: Appleyard v.
Massachusetts, 203 U. S. 222; Charlton vi Kelly, 229 U. S.
447; Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66; Dow's Case, 18
Pa. St. 37; Ex parte Hoffstot, 180 Fed. Rep. 240; S. C., 218
U. S. 665; Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642; Guiteau's Case,
10 Fed. Rep. 161; Hadfield's Case, 27 Howell's State Trials
VOL. ccxxxv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Argument for Appellee.

235 U. S.

(1800), Case No. 646, p. 1282; In re Clarke, 86 Kansas, 539;
Matter of Fetter, 3 Zabr. 311; Matter of Voorhees, 3 Broom,
(32 N. J. L.) 145; Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S. 364; People
v. Cain,206 N. Y. 202; Peoples. Silverman, 181 N. Y. 240;
Peabody v. Chanler, 13 App. Div. (N. Y.) 159, S. C., affi'd
196 N. Y. 525; People V. Pinkerton, 17 Hun, 199; Pettibone v; United States, 148 U. S. 197; Pierce v. Crecy,
210 U. S. 387; Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80; State v.
Anderson, 1 Hill, 327; United States v. Lawrence, 4 Cr.
C. C. 518; United States v. Ridgeway, 31 Fed. Rep. 144.
Mr. P. C. Knox and Mr. William A. Stone, with whom
Mr. Merrill Shurtleff and Mr. George F. Morris were on the
brief, for appellee:
Thaw did not escape from guardianship control, but
from police control. His commitment to Matteawan the
appellate court said was made in the exerc'ise of the police
powerof the State. Peabody v. Chanler, 117 N. Y. Supp.
322.
The parens patrie power has been recognized and exercised from time ifiimemorial.
It is a political relationship existing only between
sovereign and subject and for the subject's protection.
The confinement of the dangerously insane for the
public protection in the exercise of the police power has no
relation to the parens patrie power, has its origin in the
statutes enacted long subsequent to the recognition of
the pdrens patrice power, and operates in a different
field and for a different purpose, the one having in exclusive view the protection of the public, the other the care
and protection of the ward.
The parens patrie power is protective, not punitive nor
police. It is invoked only to help the helpless and to
protect his person and estate. It is a prerogative of
sovereignty usually committed to the chancellor. It is a
duty the sovereign owes the subject in return for his

DREW v. THAW.
235 U. S.

Argwment for Appellee.

allegiance. New York has never exercised it or sought
to exercise it, and cannot exercise it in respect to Thaw,
a citizen of Pennsylvania.
New York's relation to Thaw was that of a prosecutor,
and in the issue joined between that great State and Thaw
the stake was Thaw's life. Thaw was acquitted. New
York's present relation to him is just the same as to every
other person. She may defend her peace against him, her
courts having found him dangerously insane, if by his
presence in her jurisdiction he menaces her peace.
There can be no purpose of alleging in an extradition
proceeding that a ward Jas escaped from legal guardianship, then that his extradition is sought only to punish
..him for crime, and finally that the purpose is to have him
immediately returned to the alleged guardianship control.
If these allegations in any way raise the question of the
right of the State of New York to exercise parens patricv
control over a citizen of Pennsylvania domiciled within
that State, petitioner insists that no such right or power
exists.
Appellee must for the purposes of this case be regarded
as insane and subject to all the liabilities and entitled to
all the privileges which such a status imposes on or gives
to him. The authorities of New York cannot play fast and
loose here; they cannot have this appellee sane when he
escapes from a lunatic asylum, in order that they may
supply a necessary intent to, an alleged crime, and dangerously insane when they oppose his release.
-On the record this man must be regarded as insane, and
his extradition must be considered from that viewpoint.
This is not a case in which it is sought (as in Charlton v.
Kelly, 229 U. S. 427), to set up the plea of insanity as a
defence to the charge of crime, and to establish the plea by
evidence aliunde the record. Here the insanity is shown
on the face of the record.
Extradition, or interstate rendition, will lie only for

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellee.

235 U. S.

crimes, and this includes misdemeanors, and an act to
constitute a crime or misdemeanor must contain the
elements and satisfy the requirements that are essential
to constitute crimes or misdemeanors at common law.
The power of a State to create extraditable crimes is
subject to this limitation. Blackstone's Comm., Bk. 4,
ch. 1, p. 5.
In construing terms of an article in the Constitution we
are to look at the meaning which those terms had at common law, both in the United States and England, at the
time of the adoption of the Constitution. United States v.
Wilson, 7 Pet. 160; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343;
Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1; West v. Gammon, 98 Fed. Rep.
426.
As to the meaning of "ex post facto," see Carpenter V.
Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456; of "pardon," United States v.
Wilson, 7 Pet. 160; United States v. Harris, 26 Fed. Cas.
No. 15,315; of tehms in the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh
Amendments, United States v. Potter, 56 Fed. Rep. 83;
Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540; Thompson v. Utah, 170
U. S. 343; United States v. Copper Stills, 47 Fed. Rep.
495; United States v. Gilbert, 25 Fed. Cas. No. 15,204;
United States v. Ayres, 46 Fed. Rep. 651.
In interstate rendition the papers of the demanding
State should show, by competent proof, that the accused
is substantially charged with crime against the laws of
thedemanding State. That is, the papers must charge a
crime and must make out a prima facie case against the
accused in respect to the crime charged; otherwise the
rendition of the fugitive must fail. Roberts v. Reilly, 116
U. S. 80, 95; Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S. 691, 709; Appleyard v. Massachusetts,203 U. S. 222, 228; Pierce v. Creecy,
210 U. S. 387.
Whether or not a crime has been charged within the
foregoing rule and a prima facie case duly and properly
made out will be examined into on habeas corpus in cases of

DREW v. THAW.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

interstate rendition. Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, 94;
Ex parte Slauson, 73 Fed. Rep. 666; Appleyard v. Massachusetts,203 U. S. 222, 228; McNichols v. Pease, 207 U. S.
110; Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 638; In re Buell, 4
Fed. Cas. No. 2102; United States v. Hess, 124 U. S. 483;
United States v. Fowkes, 49 Fed. Rep. 50,
Petitioner has the constitutional right to demand that
this court shall consider and pass upon the question
whether or not he has in this proceeding been. charged
with a crime within the .meaning of the Constitution,
whether in this respect a prima facie case is made out
against him. This is not a matter of aid to criminals. It
is a safeguard to the liberty of the citizen.
The sine qua non of all crimes and misdemeanors at law
is a criminal intent. Blackstone, Bk. 4, ch. 2, p. 20;
1 Bishop's New Crim. Law, §§ 206, 430; Davis v, United
States, 160 U. S. 469, 484; Stokes v. People, 53 N. Y. 164,
179; People v. Powell, 63 N. Y. 88; Martin v. Goldstein,
46 N. Y. Supp. 961.
In cases of conspiracy such as this the gist of the crime
is the intent. Wright's Law of Conspiracy, Carson's ed.,
p. 6; Bishop's New Crim. Law, p. 171.
Insane persons are incapable of entertaining a crimiinal
intent, and therefore incapable of committing a crime.
Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, ch. 1, § 1; Hale's Pleas of
the Crown, pt. 1, ch. 1; Bishop's New Crim. Law, § 396a.
An indictment and accompanying papers which, on their
face, show that the person accused of committing the
crime charged is an avowed and adjudged lunatic, who as
a matter of law is not criminally responsible, are fatally
and substantially defective in interstate rendition proceedings, because they fail to charge a crime within the
meaning of the Federal Constitution; and the person so
charged is entitled to be set free from any and every custody based upon such insufficient and substantially defective process.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HoLmEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a final order discharging the appellee on habeas corpus. Thaw was held upon a warrant
from the Governor of New Hampshire for his extradition
to New York in pursuance of a demand of the Governor
of the latter State. He was alleged to be a fugitive from
justice and a copy of an indictment found by a New York
grand jury accompanied the demand. The indictment
alleged that Thaw had been committed to the Matteawan
State Hospital for the insane under an order of court reciting that he had been acquitted at his trial upon a former
indictment on the ground of insanity and that his discharge
was deemed dangerous to public safety. It then alleged
that being thus confined, he conspired with certain persons
to procure his escape from the hospital and did escape, to
the obstruction of justice and of the due administration
of the laws. By the New York Penal Law an agreement
to commit any act for the perversion or obstruction of
justice or of the due administration of the laws is a misdemeanor, if an overt act beside the agreement is done to
effect the object. Penal Law, §§ 580, 583.
In the wide range taken by the argument for the appellee it was suggested among other things that it was
not a crime for a man confined in an insane asylum to
walk out if he could, and that therefore a conspiracy to
do it could not stand in any worse case. But that depends
on the statute. It is perfectly possible and even may be
rational to enact that a conspiracy to accomplish what
an individual is free to do shall be a crime. An individual
is free to refuse his custom to a shop, but a conspiracy to
abstain from giving custom, might and in some jurisdictions probably would be punished. If the acts conspired
for tend to obstruct the due administration of the laws the
statute makes the conspiracy criminal whether the acts
themselves are so or not. We do not regard it as open

DREW v. THAW.
235 U. S9.

Opinion of the Court.

to debate that the withdrawal, by connivance, of a man
from an insane asylum, to which he had been committed
as Thaw was, did tend to obstruct the due administration
of the law. At least, the New York courts may so decide.
Therefore the indictment charges a crime. If there is any
remote defect in the earlier proceedings by which Thaw,
was. committed, which we are far from intimating, this is
not the time and place for that question to be tried.
If the conspiracy constituted a crime there is io doubt
that Thaw is a fugitive from justice. He was a party to
the crime in New York and afterwards left the State. It
long has been established that for purposes of extradition
between the States it does not matter what motive induced the departure. Roberts v. Reilly, 1(16 U. S. 80;
Appleyard v. Massachusetts, 203 U. S. 222, 226, 227. We
perceive no ground whatever for the suggestion that in a
case like this there should be a stricter rule.
The most serious argument on behalf of Thaw is that if
he was insane when he contrived his escape he could not
be guilty of crime, while if he was not insane he was entitled to be discharged; and that his confinement and other
facts scattered through the record require us. to assume
that he was insane. But this is not Thaw's trial:, In
extradition proceedings, even when as here a humane opportunity is afforded to test them upon habeas corpus, the
purpose of the writ is not to substitute the judgment of
another tribunal upon the facts or the law of the matter
to be tried. The Constitution says nothing about habeas
corpus in this connection, but peremptorily requires that
upon proper demand the person charged shall be delivered
up to 1e removed to the State having jurisdiction of the
crime. Article 4, § 2. Pettibone v. Nichols, 203 IT. 5. 192,
205. There is no discretion allowed, no inquiry into motives. Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66; Pettibone v.
Nichols, 203 U. S. 192, 203. The technical sufficiency of
the indictment is not open. Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

364, 373. And even if it be true that the argument stated
offers a nice question, it is a question as to the law of New
York which the New York courts must decide. The statute that declares an act done by a lunatic not a crime adds
that a person is not excused from criminal liability except
upon proof that at the tinme 'he was laboring under such
defect of reason as: 1. Not to know the nature and quality
of the act he was doing; or 2. Not to know that the act was
wrong.' Penal Law, § 1120. See § 34. The inmates of
lunatic asylums are largely governed, it has been remarked,
by appeal to the same motives that govern other men, and
it well might be that a man who was insane and dangerous,
nevertheless in many directions understood the nature
and quality of his acts as well, and was as open to be affected by the motives of the criminal law as anybody else.
How far such considerations shall be taken into account
it is for the New York courts to decide, as it is for a New
York jury to determine whether at the moment of the conspiracy Thaw was insane in such sense as they may be instructed would make the fact a defence. Pierce v. Creecy,
210 U. S. 387, 405; Charlton v. Kelly, 229 U. S. 447, 462.
When, as here, the identity of the person, the fact that
he is a fugitive from justice, the demand in due form, the
indictment by a grand jury for what it and the Governor
of New York allege to be a crime in that State and the
reasonable possibility that it may be such, all appear, the
constitutionally required surrender is not to be interfered
with by the summary process of habeas corpus upon speculations as to what ought to be the result of a trial in the
place where the Constitution provides for its taking place.
We regard it as too clear for lengthy discussion that Thaw
should be delivered up at once.
Final order reversed.

