UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
UNITED STATES v. BROUGHTON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
Nos. 478, 479.

Argued October 23, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.

Congress passed §§ 1990 and 5526, Rev. Stat., and § 269, Criminal
Code, abolishing and prohibiting peonage under the authority conferred by § 2 of the Thirteenth Amendment to enforce § 1 of that
amendment, thereby undertaking to strike down all laws, regulations
and usages in the States and Territories which attempted to maintain and enforce, directly or indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary
service or labor of any persons as peons in the liquidation of any debt
or obligation.
Peonage is a condition of compulsory service based upon the indebtedness of the peon to the master. The basal fact is indebtedness.
Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S. 207.
Where a person charged with crime has, after confession, been sentenced to pay a fine and costs and then been released on the payment
of a fine by a surety With whom he has made an agreement to work
continuously for a specified period for the specified amount so paid
for the fine and costs, as provided by the laws of Alabama, and he is
liable to separate punishment if he fails to carry out the contract, the
relation established between that person and the surety is that of
peonage and falls within the prohibition of the Thirteenth Amendment and the laws enacted to enforce it.
Constant fear of punishment under the criminal law renders work compulsory. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219.
While this court follows the decisions of the state court in determining
the constitutionality of state statutes:under the state constitution,
and ordinarily follows the construction given to such statutes by the
state court, where such a decision really determines the legal effect
of a state statute in a case involving the Constitution and laws of the
United States, this court determines for itself whether that statute
does or does not violate the Constitution of the United States and the
laws passed in pursuance thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

235 U. S.

The validity of a system of state 'law will be adjudged by its operation
and effect upon rights secured by the Federal Constitution and offenses punished by Federal statutes.
213 Fed. Rep. 345, 352, reversed.

facts, which involve the construction of certain
penal statutes of Alabama and their constitutionality
under the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution, and
also of the Peonage Laws of the United States, are stated
in the opinion.
THE

The Solicitor General for the United States:
The indictments charge an offense within the meaning
of the Federal peonage act.
The peonage act of March 2, 1867, Rev. Stat., §§ 1990,
5526; Criminal Code, § 269, is a valid exercise of congressional power under the Thirteenth Amendment.
Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219; Clyatt v. United States,
197 U. S. 207.
Section 6846, Code, Alabama, 1907, is unconstitutional
as in conflict with the Thirteenth Amendment and
with the legislation authorized by it and enacted by Congress, the Alabama decisions notwithstanding. Ex parte
Davis, 95 Alabama, 9; Lee v. State, 75 Alabama, 29; Peonage Cases, 123 Fed. Rep. 671; Shepherd v. State, 110
Alabama, 104; Simmons v. State, 139 Alabama, 149;
Smith v. State, 82 Alabama, 40.
No sentence of involuntary servitude ever was or ever
could have been impose 'l by the State and therefore the
State had no right in the labor of these convicts, nor
could it transfer such right to anyone.
Under the Alabama statutes it is only where the fine
and costs are not presently paid, or secured by confession
of judgment, with proper sureties, that any sentence to
hard labor can be enforced for their satisfaction. Bailey v.
State, 87 Alabama, 44, butsee S. C., 219U. S. 219; Bowen
v. State, 98 Alabama, 83; In re Newton, 94 Alabama, 431.

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Therefore the confession of judgment on the part of the
convicts operated to discharge them, and the State had no
right or power to further restrain their liberty.
The indebtedness for the satisfaction of which the labor
is to be performed is an indebtedness to the surety and
not to the State-a private debt, not a public penalty.
There is no correlation between the penalties which the
State might have imposed for non-payment in the first
instance and those fixed by these labor contracts.
See also Buckalew v. Tenn. Coal & Iron Co., 112 Alabama, 146; State v. Allen, 71 Alabama, 543; State v.
Etowah Lumber Co., 153 Alabama, 77; State v. Stanley, 52
Arkansas, 178; Winslow v. State, 97 Alabama, 68.
Mr. William L. Martin, with whom Mr. Robert C.
Brickell, Attorney General of the State of Alabama, was
on the brief, for defendants in error:
There is but one point in these cases: The offense of
peonage does not exist by virtue of the operation of
§§ 7632, 6846 of the Alabama Code.
The offense of peonage, which was sought to be abolished
by § 1990, Rev. Stat., and for the commission of which
punishment was prescribed by § 5526, Rev. Stat., Crini.
Code, § 269, has been defined by this and other courts
as a status or condition of compulsory service based upon
the indebtedness of the peon to the master. The basal
fact is indebtedness. Jaremillo v. Romero, 1 N. Mex. 190,
194; Peonage Cases, 123 Fed. Rep. 671, 673 (Ala.); United
States v. McClellan, 127 Fed. Rep. 971; Peonage Cases,
136 Fed. Rep. 707; In re Peonage Charge, 138 Fed. Rep.
686; United States v. Cole, 153 Fed. Rep. 801; United
States v. Clement, 171 Fed. Rep. 974; Clyatt v. United
States, 197 U. S. 207, 215; Hodges v. United States, 203
U. S. 1, 33; Bailey v. State, 219 U. S. 219, 242.
Those provisions apply only to actions based on contracts, express or implied, and do not extend to actions

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

235 U. S.

originating in tort. Ex parte Hardy, 68 Alabama, 303,
316.
The sentence of a convict to additional imprisonment
for embezzlement in lieu of his restoring to the injured
party the amount embezzled is not regarded as imprisonment for debt. See Act of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 691.
The sentence and judgment violated the statute providing that no person shall be imprisoned for debt.
Freeman v. United States, 217 U. S. 539, 544.
The inhibition is limited to contract liabilities, and is
not applicable to fines, forfeitures, mulcts, damages for
wrong and tort. Hanson v. Fowle, 1 Sawyer, 497, 506;
United States v. Walsh, Deady, 281, 286; Carr v. State,
106 Alabama, 35, note.
Though the convict may pay the fine and costs due the
State and thereby gain his release, such cannot be regarded as a debt. Nelson v. State, 46 Alabama, 186, 189;
Caldwell v. State, 55 Alabama, 133, 135; Lee v. State, 75
Alabama, 29, 30; Smith v. State, 82 Alabama, 40, 41; Ex
parte King, 102 Alabama, 182, 183; Carr v. State, 106 Alabama, 35; Brown v. State, 115 Alabama, 74,79; United States
v. Walsh, 1 Abb. (U. S.) 66, 71; Stroheim v. Deimel, 73 Fed.
Rep. 430; Freeman v. United States, 217 U. S. 539, 544.
By the confession of judgment the nature of the convict's obligation is not changed so far as he is concerned;
the State chooses, with his consent, to substitute for his
labor and service, and imprisonment, a civil liability on
the part of the surety. Smith v. State, 82 Alabama, 40;
Shepherd v. State, 110 Alabama, 104, 105; Simmons v.
State, 139 Alabama, 149, 150.
After confession of judgment and execution of contract
a convict cannot obtain his release from his surety by the
payment of a sum of money.
Under the provisions of § 6846, the defendant may be
prosecuted, not for any debt he owes his surety, for none
exists, but as a punishment for a violation of the contract

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

which has been approved by the c6urt and in which his
labor for his surety has been substituted for hard labor for
the State or county. Ward v. State, 88 Alabama, 202;
Smith v. State, 82 Alabama, 40; Code, § 6846; Shepherd v.
State, 110 Alabama, 104.
If the contract provides for advances, it is void and its
performance cannot be enforced. Smith v. State, 82
Alabama, 40; Ex parte Davis, 95 Alabama, 9, 16; Winslow
v. State, 97 Alabama, 68; Elston v. State, 154 Alabama, 62.
See also Salter v. State, 117 Alabama, 135, 137; Wade v.
State, 94 Alabama, 109; Wynn v. State, 82 Alabama, 55,
57; McQueen v. State, 138 Alabama, 63, 67.
The State retains control of the convict. It does not
lose control over him when judgment has been confessed,
but still retains authority to sentence the convict to
punishment. Bailey v. State, 87 Alabama, 44, 46.
In interpreting the Alabama statutes on this point, this
court will follow the decisions of the highest court of that
State. Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361, 367; Nesmith v.
Sheldon, 7 How. 812, 818; Van Rensselaer v. Kearney, 11
How. 297, 318; Webster v. Cooper, 14 How. 488, 504;
Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black. 599; Haver v. District No.
108, 111 U. S. 701; Detroit v. Osborne, 135 U. S. 492, 498;
IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 154; Hooker v.
Los Angeles, 188 U. S. 314, 320; Hairston v. Danville &
Western Ry., 208 U. S. 598; Siler v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 213
U. S. 175, 191; Trimble v. Seattle, 233 U. S. 218, 219.
State v. Etowah Lumber Co., 153 Alabama, 77, 78, distinguished, as in that case the convict was taken from the
custody of his surety by virtue of a warrant issued for the
commission of another offense than that for which he was
then serving.
A single decision of a state court which departs from
the whole course of the decisions of that State will not be
followed. Gibson v. Lyon, 115 U. S. 439, 446; Hardin v.
Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 387.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The statute is a humane one. If the convict does his
duty according to his contract there is no reminder of his
convict-state, save at the end of each month when his
wage is withheld. He is practically a free man and the
law delights in the liberty and the happiness of the citizen.
Peonage Cases, 123 Fed. Rep. 671, 676.
The Thirteenth Amendment does not contain authority
for Congress to withhold from a State the right to make
its own laws for punishing those duly convicted of crime.
If Congress has authority to legislate regarding a State
leasing its convicts out to work, there is nothing to prevent its prescribing the kind of work to be performed, the
working hours and the fodd and clothing furnished. See
debates in Congressional Globe on adoption of Thirteenth
Amendment in 1863-4, Part 2, pp. 1313-25, 1364-70,
1419-24, 1437-46, 1456-65, 1,79-90.
The Thirteenth Amendment was not intended to introduce any novel doctrine with respect to certain descriptions of service which have always been treated as exceptional. Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 282; Clyatt v.
United States, 197 U. S. 207, 216.
The court cannot read into the Thirteenth Amendment
exceptions which do not appear and refuse, to give life to
the one exception which does appear therein, to-wit:
conviction for crime.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court..
These cases were argued and considered together, and
may be disposed of in a single opinion. They come here
under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564,
34 Stat. 1246, as involving the construction of the statutes
of the United States which have for their object the prohibition and punishment of peonage. Case No. 478,
United States v. Reynolds, was decided upon demurrer
and objections to a plea filed to the indictment. The case

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against Broughton, No. 479, was decided upon demurrer
to the indictment. In both cases the District Court held
that no offense was charged. 213 Fed. Rep. 345, 352.
Both indictments for holding certain persons in a state of
peonage were found under § 1990 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, as follows:
"The holding of any person to service or labor under the
system known as peonage is abolished and forever prohibited in the Territory of New Mexico, or in any other
Territory or State of the United States; and all acts, laws,
resolutions, orders, regulations, or usages of the Territory
of New Mexico, or of any other Territory or State, which
have heretofore established, maintained, or enforced, or
by virtue of which any attempt shall hereafter be made
to establish, maintain, or enforce, directly or indirectly,
the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of any persons as peons, in liquidation of any debt or obligation, or
otherwise, are declared null and void," and § 269 of the
Criminal Code (§ 5526, Rev. Stat.), which provides that"Whoever holds, arrests, returns, or causes to be held,
arrested or returned, or in any manner aids in the arrest
or return of any person to a condition of peonage, shall be
fined not more than five thousand dollars, or imprisoned
not more than five years, or both."
The facts to be gathered from the indictments and pleas,
upon which the court below decided the cases and determined that no offense was charged against the statutes of
the United States as above set forth, are substantially
these: In No. 478, one Ed Rivers, having been convicted
in a court of Alabama of the offense of petit larceny, was
fined $15, and costs $43.75. The defendant Reynolds
appeared as surety for Rivers, and a judgment by confession was entered up against him for the amount of the
fine and costs, which Reynolds afterwards paid to the
State. On May 4, 1910, Rivers, the convict, entered into
a written contract with Reynolds to wurk for him as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

farm-hand for the term of nine months and twenty-four
days, at the rate of six dollars per month, to pay the
amount of fine and costs. The indictment charges that
he entered into the service of Reynolds, and under threats
of arrest and imprisonment if he ceased to perform such
work and labor, he worked until the sixth day of June, when
he refused to labor. Thereupon he was arrested upon a
warrant issued at the instance of Reynolds from the
County Court of Alabama, on the charge of violating the
contract of service. He was convicted and fined the sum
of one cent for violating this contract, and additional
costs in the amount of $87.05, for which he again confessed
judgment with G. W. Broughton as surety, and entered
into a similar contract with Broughton to work for him
as a farm-hand at the same rate, for a term of fourteen
months and fifteen days.
In No. 479, the case against Broughton, E. W. Fields,
having been convicted in an Alabama state court, at the
July, 1910, term, of the offense of selling mortgaged property, was fined fifty dollars and costs, in the additional
sum of $69.70. Thereupon Broughton, as surety for Fields,
confessed judgment for the sum of fine and costs, and afterwards paid the same to the State. On the eighth day of
July, 1910, a contract was entered into, by which Fields
agreed to work for Broughton as a farm and logging hand
for the term of nineteen months and twenty-nine days, at
the rate of six dollars per month, to pay the fine and costs.
He entered into the service of Broughton, and, it was
alleged, under threats of arrest and imprisonment if he
ceased to labor, he continued so to do until the fourteenth
day of September, 1910, when he refused to labor further.
Thereupon Broughton caused the arrest of Fields upon a
charge of violating his contract, and upon a warrant issued
upon this charge, Fields was again arrested.
The rulings in the court below upon the plea and demurrers, were that there was no violation of the Federal

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statutes, properly construed, and also held that the conduct of the defendants was justified by the provisions of
the Alabama Code, upon which they relied. These provisions are as follows:
"7632. Confession of Judgment by Defendant for Fine
and Costs.-When a fine is assessed, the court may allow
the defendant to confess judgment, with good and sufficient sureties, for the fine and costs.
"7633. Execution Issues as in Civil Cases.-Execution
may issue for the fine and costs, or any portion thereof
remaining unpaid, as in civil cases.
"7634. Qn Default in Payment of Fine and Costs, Imprisonment or Hard Labor Imposed.-If the fine and costs
are not paid, or a, judgment confessed according to the
provisions of the preceding section, the defendant must
either be imprisoned in the county jail, or, at the discretion
of the court, sentenced to hard labor for the county as
follows: If the fine does not exceed twenty dollars, ten
days; if it exceeds twenty and does not exceed fifty dollars,
twenty days; if it exceeds fifty and does not exceed one
hundred dollars, thirty days; if it exceeds one hundred and
does not exceed one hundred and fifty dollars, fifty days;
if it exceeds one hundred and fifty and does not exceed
two hundred dollars, seventy days; if it exceeds two hundred and -does not exceed three hundred dollars, ninety
days; and for every additional one hundred dollars, or
fractional part thereof, twenty-five days.
"7635. When Additional Hard Labor Imposed for
Costs; Rules in Reference to.-If on conviction judgment
is rendered against the accused that he perform hard labor
for the county, and if the costs are not presently paid or
judgment confessed therefor, as provided by law, then the
court may impose additional hard labor for the county
for such period, not to exceed ten months, as may be
sufficient to pay the costs, at the rate of seventy-five cents
per day, and the court must determine the time required

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Couit.

235 U. S.

to work out such costs at that rate; and such convict
must be discharged from the sentence against him for
costs on the payment thereof, or any balance due thereon,
by the hire of such convict, or otherwise; and the certificate
of the judge or clerk of the court in which the conviction
was had, that the costs, or the residue thereof, after deducting the amount realized from the hire of the convict,
have been paid, or that the hire or labor of the convict, as
the case may be, amounts to a sum sufficient to pay the
costs, shall be sufficient evidence to authorize such discharge.
"6846. Failure of Defendant to Perform Contract with
Surety Confessing Judgment for Fine and Costs.-Any
defendant, on whom a fine is imposed on conviction for a
misdemeanor, who in open court signs a written contract,
approved in writing by the judge of the court in which,
the conviction is had, whereby, in consideration of another
becoming his surety on a confession of judgment for the
fine and costs, agrees to do any act, or perform any service
for such person, and who, after being released on such confession of judgment, fails or refuses without good and suffixient excuse, to be determined by the jury, to do the act,
or perform the service, which in such contract he promised
or agreed to do or perform, must, on conviction, be fined
not less than the amount of the damages which the party
contracting with him has suffered by such failure or refusal, and not more than five hundred dollars; and the
jury shall assess the amount of such. damages; but no
conviction shall be had under this section, unless it is
shown on the trial that such contract was filed for record
in the office of the judge of probate of the county in which
the confession of judgment was had, within ten days after
the day of the execution thereof.
"6848. Damages Paid to Injured Party out of Fine
Imposed.-From the fine imposed under the two preceding sections, when collected, the damages sustained by

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the party contracting with such defendant must be paid
to such person by the officer collecting the same."
The defendants having justified under this system of
law, the question for consideration is, Were the defendants well charged with violating the provisions of the
Federal statutes' to which we have referred, notwithstanding they undertook to act under the Alabama laws, particularly under the provisions of § 6846 of the Alabama
Code, authorizing sureties to appear and confess judgment
and enter into contracts such as those we have described?
The Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States provides:
"Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall
have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United
States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
"Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this
article by appropriate legislation."
It was under the authority herein conferred, to enforce
the provisions of this amendment by appropriate legislation, that Congress passed the sections of the Revised
Statutes here under consideration. Clyatt v. United States,
197 U. S.207; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219.
By these enactments Congress undertook to strike
down all laws, regulations and usages in the States and
Territories which attempted to maintain and enforce,
directly or indirectly, the voluntary or involuntary service or labor of any persons as peons, in the liquidation
of any debt or obligation. To determine whether the
conduct of the defendants charged in the indictments
amounted to holding the persons named in a state of
peonage, it is essential to understand what Congress meant
in the use of that term prohibiting and punishing those
guilty of maintaining it. Extended discussion of this
subject is rendered unnecessary in view of the full consideration thereof in the prior adjudications of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

court. Clyatt v. United States, supra; Bailey v. Alabama,
supra.
Peonage is "a status or condition of compulsory service,
based upon the indebtedness of the peon to the master.
The basal fact is indebtedness. . . . One fact existed
universally; all were indebted to their masters .
Upon this is based a condition of compulsory service.
Peonage is sometimes classified as voluntary or involuntary, but this implies simply a difference in the mode of
origin, but none in the character of the servitude. The
one exists where the debtor voluntarily contracts to enter
the service of. his creditor. The other is forced upon the
debtor by some provision of law. But peonage, however
created, is compulsory service, involuntary servitude.
The peon can release himself therefrom, it is true, by
the payment of the debt, but otherwise the service is
enforced. A clear distinction exists between peonage and
the voluntary performance of labor or rendering of services in payment of a debt. In the latter case, the debtor,
though contracting to pay his indebtedness by labor or
service, and subject' like any other contractor to an action
for damages for breach of that contract, can elect at any
time to break it, and no law or force compels performance
or a continuance of the service." Clyatt v. United States,
197 U. S. 207, 215.
Applying this definition to the facts here shown, we
must determine whether the convict was in reality working for a debt which he owed the surety, and whether
the labor was performed under such coercion as to become
a compulsory service for the dis harge of a debt. If so,
it amounts to peonage, within the prohibition of the
Federal statutes. The actual situation is this: The convict instead of being committed to work and labor as the
statute provides for the State, when his fines and costs are
unpaid, comes into court with a surety, and confesses
judgment in the amount of fine and costs, and agrees

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.

145

Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

with the surety, in consideration of the payment of that
fine and costs, to perform service for the surety after he
is released because of the confession of judgment. The
form of the contract, said to be'the usual one entered into
in such cases, is given in the record, and reads:
"LABOR CONTRACT.
"The State of Alabama, Monroe County:
"'Whereas, at the May term, 1910, of the county court,
held in and for said county, I, Ed. Rivers, was convicted
in said court of the offense of petit larceny and fined the
sum of fifteen dollars, and judgment has been rendered
against me for the amount of said fine, and also in the
further and additional sum of forty-three and 75/100
dollars, cost in said case, and whereas J. A. Reynolds,
together with A. C. Hixon, have confessed judgment with
me in said court for said fine and cost., Now, in consideration of the premises, I, the said Ed. Rivers, agree to work
and labor for him, the said J. A. Reynolds, on his plantation in Monroe County, Alabama, and under his direction
as a farm hand to pay fine and cost for the term 9 months
and 24 days, at the rate of $6.00 per month, together with
my board, lodging, and clothing during the said time of
hire, said time of hire commencing on the 4 day of May,
1910, and ending on the 28 day of Feby., 1911, provided
said work is not dangerous in its character.
"Witness our hands this 4 day of May, 1910.
"ED (his x mark) RiveRs.
"J.

A. REYNOLDS.

"Witness:
"JOHN

M.

COXWELL."

It also stands admitted in this record, that the sureties
in fact paid the judgment confessed. Looking then to
the substance of things, and through the mere form which
they have taken, we are to decide the question whether
the labor of the convict, thus contracted for, amounted to
VOL. ccxxxv-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

involuntary service for the liquidation of a debt to the
surety, which character of service it was the intention
of the acts of Congress to prevent and punish. When
thus at labor, the convict is working under a contract
which he has made with his surety. He is to work until
the amount which the surety has paid for him-the sum
of the fine and costs-is paid. The surety has paid the
State and the service is rendered to reimburse him. This
is the real substance of the transaction. The terms of
that contract are agreed upon by the contracting parties,
as the result of their own negotiations. The statute of
the State does not prescribe them. It leaves the making
of contract to the parties concerned, and this fact is not
changed because of the requirement that the judge shall
approve of the contract. When the convict goes to work
under this agreement, he is under the direction and control of the surety, and is in fact working for him. If he
keeps his agreement with the surety, he is discharged
from its obligations without any further action by the
State. This labor is performed under the constant coercion and threat of another possible arrest and prosecution
in case he violates the labor contract which he has made
with the surety, and this form of coercion is as potent
as it would have been had the law provided for the seizure
and compulsory service of the convict. Compulsion of
such service by the constant fear of imprisonment under
the criminal laws renders the work compulsory, as much
so as authority to arrest and hold his person would be
if the law authorized that to be done. Bailey v. Alabama,
219 U. S. 219, 244; Ex parte Hollman, 60 S. E. Rep. 19, 24.
Under this statute, the surety may cause the arrest of
the convict for violation of his labor contract. He may
be sentenced and punished for this new offense, and undertake to liquidate the penalty by a new contract of a
similar nature, and, if again broken, may be again prosecuted, and the convict is thus kept chained to an ever-

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

turning wheel of servitude to discharge the obligation
which he has incurred to his surety, who has entered into
an undertaking with the State or paid money in his behalf. The re-arrest of which we have spoken is not because of his failure to pay his fine and costs originally assessed against him by the State. He is arrested at the
instance of the surety, and because the law punishes the
violation of the contract which the convict has made with
him.
Nor is the labor for the surety by any means tantamount
to that which the State imposes if no such contract has
been entered into, as these cases afford adequate illustration. In the case against Reynolds, Rivers was sentenced
to pay $15 fine and $43.75 costs. Under the Alabama
Code, he might have been sentenced to hard labor for the
county for ten days for the non-payment of the fine, and
assuming that he could be sentenced for non-payment of
costs under § 7635 of the Alabama Code, he could have
worked it out at the Tate of seventy-five cents per day,
an additional 58 days might have been added, making 68
days as his maximum sentence at hard labor. Under the
contract now before us, he was required to labor for nine
months and twenty-four days, thus being required to
perform a much more onerous service than if he had been
sentenced under the statute, and committed to hard labor.
Failing to perform the service he may be again re-arrested,
as he was in fact in this case, and another judgment confessed to pay a fine of one cent and $87.75 costs, for which
the convict was bound to work for another surety for the
term of fourteen months and seventeen days. In the
case against Broughton, Fields was fined $50 and $69.70
costs. Under the law he might have been condemned to
hard labor for less than four months. By the contract
described; he was required to work for Broughton for a
period of nineteen months and twenty-nine days.
We are cited to a series of Alabama cases, in which it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

held that the confessed judgment and the contract do not
satisfy the law nor pay the penalty imposed, but the hirer
becomes the traisferee of the right of the State to compel
the payment of the fine and costs, and by this exaction of
involuntary servitude the convict has only changed masters, and that under the Alabama constitution the law is
constitutional, and that the convict is not being imprisoned
for indebtedness. It is to be observed that the same
learned court, in one of its later deliverances (State v.
Etowah Lumber Company, 153 Alabama, 77, 78), has said
in speaking of this contract, "the State was in no sense a
party to the contract by which the company acquired the
custody of Falkner [the convict in that case]. It is true
it [the State] permitted the making of the contract, and
provided a punishment for its breach." Here is a direct
utterance of that court that the State was not a party to
the surety's agreement, but its connection with it was to
permit it, and provide the punishment for its breach.
True it is that this court follows the decisions of the state
courts, in determining the constitutionality of statutes
under the constitutions of the States; and in considering
the constitutionality of statutes ordinarily accepts their
meaning as construed by the state courts. The Alabama
decisions, to which we have been referred, are more
strictly speaking determinations of the legal effect of
these statutes than interpretation of any doubtful meaning which may be found within their terms. Moreover,
we are here dealing with a case which involves the Constitution and statutes of the United States, as to which
this court, by force of the Constitution, and the several
Judiciary Acts which have been enacted by Congress, is the
ultimate arbiter. In such cases this court must determine
for itself whether a given enactment violates the Constitution of the United States or the statutes passed in
pursuance thereof. The validity of this system of state
law must be judged by its operation and effect upon rights

UNITED STATES v. REYNOLDS.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

secured by the Constitution of the United States and
offenses punished by the Federal statutes. If such state
statutes, upon their face, or in the manner of their administration, have the effect to deny rights secured by the
Federal Constitution or to nullify statutes passed in
pursuance thereto, they must fail. Bailey v. Alabama, 219
U. S. 219, 244; Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U. S. 259, 268.
Nor do we think this case is controlled by Freeman v.
United States, 2'.7 U. S. 539, cited by counsel for defendants in error. In that case it was held that a money
penalty imposed for embezzlement which went to the
creditor, and not into the Treasury, under the Penal Code
of the Philippine Islands, did not make imprisonment for
the non-payment of such penalty equivalent to imprisonment for debt. In that case, although the penalty affixed
went to the creditor, it was part of the sentence imposed
by the law as a punishment for the crime. In the present
case, the contract under which the convict serves for the
surety, is made between the parties concerned, who
determine and fix its terms, and is not fixed by the
State as the punishment for the commission of an offense.
There can be no doubt that the State has authority to
impose involuntary servitude as a punishment for ctime.
This fact is recognized in the Thirteenth Amendment, and
such punishment expressly excepted from its terms. Of
course, the State may impose fines and penalties which
must be worked out for the benefit of the State, and in
such manner as the State may legitimately prescribe.
See Clyatt v. United States, supra, and Bailey v. Alabama,
supra. But here the State has taken the obligation of
another for the fine and costs, imposed upon one convicted
for the violation of the laws of the State. It has accepted
the obligation of the surety, and, in the present case, it is
recited in the record that the money has been in fact paid
by the surety. The surety and convict have made a new
contract for service, in regard to the terms of which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HOLMES, J., concurring.

235 U. S.

State has not been consulted. The convict must work it
out to-satisfy the surety for whom he has contracted to
work. This contract must be kept, under pain of re-arrest,
and another similar proceeding for its violation, and perhaps another and another. Thus, under pain of recurring
prosecutions, the c6nvict may be kept at labor, to satisfy
the demands of his employer.
In our opinion, this system is in violation of rights
intended to be secured by the Thirteenth Amendment, as
well as in violation of the statutes to which we have
referred, which the Congress has enacted for the purpose
of making that amendment effective.
It follows that the judgment of the District Court must
be reversed.
Judgment accordingly.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

took.no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs concurring.

There seems to me nothing in the Thirteenth Amendment or the Revised Statutes that prevents a State from
making a breach of contract, as well a reasonable contract
for labor as for other matters, a crime and punishing it as
such. But impulsive people with little intelligence or
foresight may be expected to lay hold of anything that
affords a relief from present pain even though it will
cause greater trouble by and by. The successive contracts,
each for a longer term than the last, are the inevitable, and
must be taken to have been the contemplated outcome of
the Alabama laws. On this ground I am inclined to agree
that the statutes in question disclose the attempt to
maintain service that the Revised Statutes forbid.

