LOVELL-McCONNELL CO. v. AUTO SUPPLY CO.
235 U. S.

383

Argument for Automobile Supply Co.

LOVELL-McCONNELL MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. AUTOMOBILE SUPPLY MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPLICATION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR MANDAMUS
OR FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
No. 722.

CIRCUIT.

Motion for leave to file petition for writ of mandamus or cer-

tiorari, submitted November 16, 1914.-Decided December 14, 1914.
In this case a petition for mandamus directing the court below to correct its action is denied and a petition for certiorari granted, and the
parties having so stipulated, the papers filed are treated as the
record, and the case regarded as submitted for decision on the merits.
Although the provisions in the Act of February 13, 1911, c. 47, 36 Stat.
901, in regard to clerk's fee for supervising printing the record, may
not apply to appeals from every interlocutory decree, it does aLply
where the decree, as in this case, although interlocutory in character,
is, within the intendment of the statute, a final decree. Smith v.
Farbenfabriken of Elberfeld Co., 197 Fed: Rep. 894, approved.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the act of
February 13, 1911, 36 Stat. 901, amending the fee bill and
its application to interlocutory decrees, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Irting M.

Obrieght and Mr. George C. Dean, for

Lovell-McConnell Co., in support of the motion.
Mr. C. A.

L.

Massie and Mr. Ralph Lane Scott, for

Automobile Supply Co., in opposition to the motion:
The act of February 13, 1911, deals with a review by a
Court of Appeals upon either "writ of error" or "appeal,"
as the case may be of "the final judgment or decree."

The

present controversy arises upon an appeal from an "interlocutory" decree, therefore the act does not here apply.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Automobile Supply Co.

235 U. S.

Prior to this act the fee bill imposed the so-called
supervision fee of twenty-five cents for each page of the
transcript on every appeal-whether from an interlocutory
decree or from a final decree. The act deals exclusively
with an appeal from "the final" decree; and being to that
extent inconsistent with the fee bill, the requirement of
the fee bill relating to an appeal from the final decree is
repealed by implication.
Inasmuch as the act does not deal with appeals from
interlocutory decrees, there is no implication of repeal
of the requirement of the fee bill governing appeals from
interlocutory decrees; that requirement remains in force.
If the implication of the act does not repeal the provisions of the fee bill governing appeals from "interlocutory"
decrees, then the clerk was entitled to charge (in fact, it
was his duty to charge) the full amount actually received,
as an "indivisible fee." Bean v. Patterson, 110 U. S.
401.
This. act has been considered judicially in only four reported decisions in the first of which the court suggested
the desirability of further legislative action, which, however, has not yet been taken. See Colt's Patent Fire
Arms v. N. Y. Sporting Goods, 186 Fed. Rep. 625; Victor
v. Hoschke, id.; Smith v. Farbenfabriken, 197 Fed. Rep.
894.
This court has definitely settled that such decree-one
awarding an injunction and an accounting in a patent
suit-is an "interlocutory" decree and not a final one.
Ex parte National Enameling &c. Co., 201 U. S. .156.
In Rainey v. Grace, 231 U. S. 703, this court, in reaching
its conclusions regarding the effect of the act upon the
fee bill, noted that the act contains no express repeal of
the earlier law; pointed out that repeals by implication
are not favored, and that only in cases of clear inconsistency will a later act be held to repeal a former one.
And, having before it an appeal from a final decree, this

LOVELL-McCONNELL CO. v. AUTO SUPPLY CO.
235 U. S.

385

Argument for Automobile Supply Co.

court was careful to 'limit its decision to holding merely
that the act repealed the fee bill in the case mentioned
under the facts certified.
The act of February 13, 1911, must be regarded not as
creating de novo entirely new rights, but as' modifying or
changing, or, by implication, repealing, certain already
subsisting requirements created by the fee bill promulgated
by this court under the authority of a prior statute.
When a provision is left out of a statute, either by design
or mistake of the legislature, the courts have no power to
supply it. To do so would be to legislate and not to construe. Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 567, 579.
In two bankruptcy cases where review was sought of
certain decisions below, which the Court of Appeals held
to constitute "final" decrees, the act was held to apply,
and the clerk was directed to return the supervision fees
to the parties who had paid them in. In re Burr Mfg. Co.,
215 Fed. Rep. 898; In re Leavitt & Grant, id.
The department of justice has taken the view that the
act abolished the supervision fee in all cases. But, in
Rainey v. Grace, 231 U. S. 703, this court held merely that
by this act the supervision fee was abolished when the appeal was from a final decree in admiralty. It does not
appear that this court intended to decide that the supervision fee was abolished in other cases presenting different
facts.
The reply to petitioner's argument of convenience and
that Congress intended to reduce the fees is that we have
to accept the act as we find it; that its terms are plain and
unambiguous; and that to construe the expression "the
final judgment or decree" as meaning "the final judgment
or every decree (whether interlocutory or final)," and to
construe the expression "the final decree" as applying to
an "interlocutory" decree--would be not to construe the
law but to amend it. Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 567, 579;
36 Cyc. 1106-1113.
VOL. ccxxxv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The requirement of the fee bill concerning appeals from
interlocutory decrees remains unaffected by the act of
February 13, 1911, and is still controlling of the case at
bar.
In granting the order under review, the Court of Appeals
was acting in strict conformity with the existing law, and
properly directed the clerk to retain the supervision fee
and to tax it against the defeated appellee.
The correctness of that order is so manifest that this
court will forthwith either approve said order, or refuse to
interfere with it.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The application is for leave to file a petition for mandamus directing the court below to correct the action taken
by it which is complained of or for the allowance of a certiorari to bring up the record in order that such complained
of action may be reviewed. We decline to allow leave to
file the petition for mandamus, but grant the petition for
certiorari and conformably to the stipulation of the parties
treat the document made a part of this proceeding as the
record for the purpose of the certiorari and proceed to act
upon the same treating the case as under submission on
the merits.
The Automobile Supply Company appealed to the court
below from an interlocutory decree in favor of the complainant, the Lovell-McConnell Company, finding that the
patents sued on had been infringed and awarding an injunction and directing an accounting for damages and
profits. On such appeal the Automobile Supply Company
furnished the clerk of the court below a complete printed
record accompanied with a written index of the contents
of the same and in consequence of a demand made by the
clerk deposited under protest the sum of $696.00 as a fee

LOVELL-McCONNELL CO. v. AUTO SUPPLY CO.
235 U. S.

387

Opinion of the Court.

due the clerk for supervising the printed record so furnished. When after a hearing the court reversed the decree
of the trial court, the Automobile Supply Company called
upon the clerk either to refund the money charged for
supervision or to include it in his statement of the costs
to be entered on the mandate. The clerk, being doubtful
as to his duty in the matter, refused to do either and insisted that ,the propriety of the charge be tested to the end
that he might act advisedly in the premises. The Automobile Supply Company thereupon moved to direct the
clerk to include the supervision fee in the mandate or to
refund the amount of the deposit which had been made.
The court held that the charge for supervision was lawful
and was therefore properly taxable as costs and directed
the clerk to retain the money and include a charge for the
same in the mandate. The application before us was tlhen
made by the Lovell-McConnell Company, the party cast
and ultimately bound for the costs, both the parties, however, entering into the agreement as to the record and
the submission on the merits which we at the outset stated.
Considering the act of Congress of February 13, 1911,
c. 47, 36 Stat. 901, U. S. Comp. Stat. Supp. 1911, p. 275,
in Rainey v. W. R. Grace Co., 231 U. S. 703, it was held
that the provisions of the act were applicable to the Circuit Courts of Appeals and it was consequently decided
that where a printed transcript of the record was filed incompliance with the statute with the clerk of the Court
of Appeals no supervision fee could be charged by such
clerk. Of course, if that ruling is here applicable, the court
below clearly erred in allowing the charge for supervision,
and the only possible question therefore is whether the
statute, although generally applicable to records filed in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, is not so applicable in this
case. It is insisted that it is not-and the court below so
held-because as the statute only provides for an appeal
from a "final judgment or decree," it does not apply to

OCTOBER TERM, -1914.

Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

a case like the one under consideration where the appeal
was from a decree interlocutory in character. But without affixing to the statute a latitudinarian meaning upon
the theory that to do so is essential to give effect to its
purpose and intent and bring every interlocutory decree
within its reach, we are of opinion that to exclude an interlocutory decree of the character of the one here involved
from the operation of the statute would be to frustrate
its plain purpose by a too rigid and unreasoning adherence
to its letter. We so conclude because, while in a technical
sense the decree here in question was interlocutory, 'when
its character and the scope of the subject-matter which
the appeal brought under review and the relief under it
which it was competent to afford are considered, we are
of opinion it must follow that such decree was within the
intendment of this statute a final decree and therefore
that error was committed in permitting the supervision
charge. Indeed, this view was taken in a well considered
opinion by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit in a case decided before the ruling in the Rainey
Case, supra (Smith v. Farbenfabriken of Elberfeld Co.,
197 Fed. Rep. 894), and we approve the reasoning by
which the ruling in that case was sustained.
It results that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in its
order approving the charging and retaining the fee for
supervision and such order is therefore reversed with
directions to the court below to take such steps as may be
necessary by recalling the mandate, if needs be, or otherwise, to afford the relief essential to give effect to the conclusions which we have expressed.
Reversed.

