OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

235 U. S.

a practice which had existed for more than twenty years.
Under these circumstances the contention is so wholly
wanting in foundation as in fact to be frivolous.
Affirmed.

YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY v. WRIGHT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 218.

Argued December 2, 1914.-Decided December 14, 1914.

Where there is no contention as to the meaning of the Employers'
Liability Act, this court, in a case where the judgment of the District
Court has been affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, need only
determine whether plain error was committed in relation to the principle of general law involved.
In this case the only error pressed being that the court below held
that there was no assumption of risk by the injured party, and as it
is impossible to deduce any assumption from the facts stated, the
judgment is affirmed.
207 Fed. Rep. 281, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
damages obtained by the administratrix of an employ6 of
a railroad company under the Employers' Liability Act,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. D. Minor, with whom Mr. Charles N. Burch was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
As this case involves no violation of any safety appliance
act, the defense of assumption of risk is open as at common
law. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492; Southern,
Ry. v. Crockett, 234 U. S. 725.
The defense of assumption of risk was duly set up in both
courts below and in the assignments of error in this court.

YAZOO & MISS. R. R. v. WRIGHT.
235 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Among the rules prescribed for the protection of engineers was one requiring them to move their trains with
caution over yard tracks, expecting to find them occupied. The deceased engineer had frequently operated
through these yards, and knew the usual situation there.
The risk was, therefore, one ordinarily incident to his
employment and was assumed by him.
Even where the situation which was responsible for the
accident was due to the master's negligence, yet if the
situation was observed by the servant or was so obvious
that an ordinarily prudent person would have seen and
appreciated it, the servant assumed the risk. Washington
&c. R. R. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 234; Choctaw &c. R. R. v.
McDade, 191 U. S. 68; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Harvey, 228
U. S. 321, 324; S. A. L. Ry. v. Horton, 232 U. S. 292;
Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Archibald, 170 U. S. 673.
Where the knowledge of the situation on the part of the
servant is equal to that of the master and he afterwards
voluntarily encounters it, he assumes the risk and cannot
recover. Fletcher v. Railroad, 102 Tennessee, 7; 3 Labatt's
M. & S., ยง 1184.
The doctrine of assumption of risk is not confined to
risks existing at the time the contract of employment was
entered into, but applies to dangers which subsequently
arise and which became known to the employ6 or Which
were so plainly observable that he must' be presumed to
have known them. S. A. L. Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492;
Railroad v. Ponn, 191 Fed. Rep. -682.
The evidence in this case shows that the engineer elected
to take the chance of passing safely. Therefore, he assumed the risk.
Failure to find that there was any assumption of risk,
because there was nothing to show that the engineer was
chargeable with the knowledge of the danger and voluntarily exposed himself to it, was clearly error; for the true
test is not in the exercise of care to discover dangers, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

whether the defect is known or plainly observable by
the employ6. Choctaw &c. R. R. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 68.
Plaintiff's case cannot be saved by the claim that it was
a matter of contributory negligence and not assumption of
risk. S. A. L. Ry. v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492.
There was no negligence on the part of the master.
The railroad company wag not chargeable with negligence merely because a car on one track protruded on
another track. Engineers were Warned that they must
expect to find such conditions and instructed to act accordingly.
There was no negligence on the part of the fireman.
There being testimony which clearly went to show assumption of risk by the decedent, the Circuit Court of
Appeals should not, in view of the error of the trial court,
have affirmed the case on the ground that the evidence
showed no assumption of risk, but should have remanded
the case for a submission of that question to the jury at
least. Slocum v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 228 U. S. 387.
Mr. R. M. Barton, with whom Mr. McKinney Barton
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by direction of the court, by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

While this second appeal rests on the Employers' Liability Act, there is no contention as to its meaning (207
Fed. Rep. 281); hence we need only determine whether
plain error was committed in relation to the principles of
general law involved. 1
Error in holding that the facts afforded no ground for
the application of the doctrine of assumption of the risk
is the sole contention pressed in argument. A freight train
1 Chicago Junction Ry. v. King, 222 U. S. 222; SeaboardAir Line v.
Moore, 228 U. S. 433; Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. v. Brown, 229 U. S.
317; Southern Railway v. Gadd, 233 U. S. 572, 577.

YAZOO & MISS. R. R. v. WRIGHT.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of which the deceased was engineer, proceeding southward
on a lead track, approached or was traversing a railroad
yard. Ahead-the distance not being specifically defined-on a yard track connecting with, and to the left of,
the lead track there stood some loaded coal cars which,
while visible to the engineer from the right side of the
engine, became more and more shut off from his view as
the train advanced. The engineer asked the fireman, who
was on the left side of the engine and therefore in full view
of the cars, whether they were clear of the lead track and
was answered that they were. There is a dispute as to
whether a head brakeman was riding in the cab and
whether subsequently, if there, he called the engineer's
attention to the fact that the coal cars were not clear.
But there is no dispute that the engineer again asked the
fireman who answered that the cars were not clear and
jumped from the locomotive. The engineer, having shut
off his power, stepped to the left side where from the collision which immediately resulted he received the injuries
from which he subsequently died.
Whatever may be the difficulty of distinguishing in
many cases between the application of the doctrine of
assumption of risk and the principles of contributory'negligence, that there is no such difficulty here is apparent
since the facts as stated absolutely preclude all inference
that the engineer knew or from the facts shown must be
presumed to have known that the coal cars were protruding over the track on which he was moving and deliberately elected to assume the risk of collision and great
danger which would be the inevitable result of his continuing the forward movement of his train.1
Union Pacific Railway v. O'Brien, 161 U. S. 451; Texas & Pacific
Railway v. Archibald, 170 U. S. 665; Texas & Pacific Railway v. Behymer, 189 U. S. 468; Choctaw,, Oklahoma &c. R. R. v. McDade, 191
U. S. 64; Schlemmer v. Buffalo, Rochester &c. Ry., 205 U. S. 1, 12; S. C.,
220 U. S. 590; SeaboardAir Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 503-504.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

The impossibility of deducing assumption of the risk
from the facts stated is cogently demonstrated by the arguments advanced to establish that the risk was assumed.
Thus it is urged that as in a railroad yard there was danger
to arise from the protrusion of cars negligently placed by
employ6s of the company, a danger which the engineer
must have known might arise, therefore he assumed the
risk of such danger. And again the argument is that even
although the engineer did not know of the protruding cars
and therefore did not consciously incur the great risk to
result from the collision, yet as by proper precaution he
could have discovered the fact that the cars were protruding, he must be considered to have assumed the risk which
resulted from his want of care. But both these arguments
have no relation to the doctrine of assumption of the risk
arid only call for the application of the principle of contributory negligence or of fellow servant.
Affirmed.

EASTERLING LUMBER COMPANY v. PIERCE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No. 589.

Submitted November 30, 1914.-Decided December 14, 1914.

A classification based on the use of engines, locomotives and cars propelled by steam, electricity, gas, gasoline or lever power and running
on tracks, in a state statute, abolishing the prirciple of negligence of
fellow servant as a defense to actions against corporations and individuals for damages, is not so unequal as to deny equal protection of
the law under the Fourteenth Amendment; and so held as to chap.
194, Laws of Mississippi of 1908.
A state statute which cuts off no substantive defense but simply provides a rule of evidence controlling the burden of proof, does not deny

