BROWN v. FLETCHER.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

to defeat the right to a year's support out of such property
as if the sale and distribution had been made by the
bankrupt himself or by his duly authorized agent.
The right to the year's support accrued at the date of
the bankrupt's death and could be enforced out of property remaining in the hands of the Trustee,-and then
only after the allowance had been duly made in proceedings, where he, as representative of the creditors, had the
right to be heard.
There has been some conflict in the decisions dealing
with the subject [In re McKenzie, 142 Fed. Rep. 383, 384
(6); In re Slack, 111 Fed. Rep. 523; In re Newton, 122 Fed.
Rep. 103; In re Seabolt, 113 Fed. Rep. 766, 767; In re
Parschen, 119 Fed. Rep. 976; Thomas v. Woods, 173 Fed.
Rep. 585, 586; vacated, 178 Fed. Rep. 1005], but the
foregoing considerations'require that the question of the
Circuit Court of Appeals should be answered, Yes.

BROWN, AND SCHERMERHORN, TRUSTEE UNDER WILL OF CUNNINGHAM, v. FLETCHER,
TRUSTEE OF BRAKER.
PROVIDENT LIFE AND TRUST COMPANY AS
EXECUTOR OF WOOD v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 454, 455.

Argued December 1, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

The prohibition against the Federal court entertaining jurisdiction of
actions brought by assignees to recover upon a promissory note or
other chose in action, as now embodied in § 24, Judicial Code, does
not apply to a suit to recover a specific thing or damages for its
wrongful detention or caption.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

245 U. S.

Under § 294, Judicial Code, which is the statutory rule for construing
that Code, the slight changes between the wording of the act Of 1887
and that of § 24, Judicial Code, in regard to jurisdiction bf the Federal
court of siuits by assignees was not intended to bring about any
change in the law but merely the continuation of the existing statute.
Federal Statutes have always permitted the vendee or assignee to sue
in the United States courts to recover property or an interest in
property when the requisite value and diversity of citizenship existed.
Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280.
Section 24, Judicial Code, does not deprive the District Court of jurisdiction to enforce an interest under an assignment by the cestui que
trust of an interest in the estate to which the latter has a fixed right in
the future. Such an assignment is not a chose in action payable to
the assignee within the prohibition of § 24, but an evidence' of the
assignee's right, title and estate in the property.

CONRAD BRAKER, JR., of New York, died testate July 21,
1890. The fifteenth item of his will provided that the sum

of $50,000 should be held in trust and securely invested for
the use of his son, Conrad Morris Braker, who was to receive the income until he attained the age of fifty-five,
when the "principal should be paid to him and belong to
him absolutely." If he failed to reach that age the property was to be held 'for the benefit of his wife for life with
remainder to Henry Braker.

The sixteenth item directed that" one-half of all the rest,
residue and remainder, both real and personal," of his
estate 'should be held in trust for the use and benefit of
Conrad Morris Braker, who was to receive the interest
derived from said trust, until he attained the age of fiftyfive when "the whole amount, less $25,000, shall be paid

and belong to him absolutely."

If he failed to reach that

age then the property was to pass to another son.
The amount realized from the residuum, described in the
sixteenth item, aggregated $120,000, and with the $50,000

described in the fifteenth item of the will, was invested
in property (not described) which is now held by Austin
B. Fletcher, the duly appointed Testamentary Trustee.
On April 18, 1901, Conrad Morris Braker assigned to

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
235 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Frank L. Rabe "seven-tenths of all the estate, right, title
and interest which he had in and to the principal sum of
$50,000 described in the 15th item of the will." Thereafter Rabe transferred and assigned this interest to the
New York Finance Company.
On February 25, 1902, Conrad Morris Braker executed
an instrument in which, subject to the assignment of
$35,000 above referred to, he "granted, bargained, sold,
assigned, transferred and set over to the New York
Finance Company all of his estate, right, title and interest
of any kind, form or description whatsoever to the amount
or extent of $35,000 in and to the legacy of $50,000, and
also in and to a legacy of the part or share of the residuary
estate to which he was entitled under and by virtue of the
fifteenth and sixteenth paragraphs of the will of Conrad
Braker, Jr., deceased."
By virtue of these two transfers the New York Finance
Company claimed to be the owner of such interest in the
fund or estates created under the fifteenth and sixteenth
items of the will.
The Finance Company thereafter made a note for
$15,000, payable to William Brewster Wood, and secured
the same by a transfer of its interests under the sixteenth
item. It also made another note for $10,000 to Brown,
and Schermerhorn, Trustee for Clara Schermerhorn, and
secured the same by a transfer of its interest under the
fifteenth item.
These notes were not paid when they fell due and the
New York Finance Company's equity of redemption was
acquired by the respective holders of the two notes. In
February, 1913, when Conrad, Morris Braker attained
the age of fifty-five, the respective holders of the notes
and assignments demanded that the Trustee should pay
over to them that to which they were entitled' by virtue
of the instruments aforesaid. The. Trustee refused to
comply and thereupon the Executors of Wood and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

235 U. S.

Trustees of Clara Schermerhorn (all of whom were citizens
and residents of Pennsylvania) brought suit in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New
York against Fletcher, Trustee, and Conrad Morris Braker,
beneficiary, both being citizens and residents of New York.
The two Bills were each prepared by the same counsel
and were identical except that the Trustees of Schermerhorn sued for what had been assigned them under the
fifteenth item. The Executors of Wood sued for the interest assigned them in the money or property mentioned
in the fifteenth and sixteenth items of the will. In both
suits it was alleged that the Complainants had acquired
title by virtue of the sale, transfer and assignment executed
by Conrad Morris Braker, and subsequent mesne conveyance. It was alleged that Complainants had been informed
that he claimed the transfers signed by him to be void because made to secure usurious debts. Both Bills prayed
that Braker should be enjoined from litigating the question
of title in any other court; that the complainants' right under the assignments should be established by final decree,
and that Fletcher, 'the Testamentary Trustee, should be
ordered to pay over to the complainants what was due
them by virtue of the respective assignments from Braker.
The court dismissed both bills and in each case gave a
certificate that the order was based "solely on the ground
that no jurisdiction of the District Court existed."
From that. order the complainants appealed to this
court.
Mr. Charles H. Burr, with whom Mr. Frederic W.
Frost, Mr. Perry D. Trafford and Mr. H. Gordon McCouch
were on the brief, for appellants:
The interpretation placed upon the provisions of
§ 629, Rev. Stat. (now § 24, 1st subd. Jud. Code) by this
court in Ingersoll v.. Coram, 211 U. S. 335, is decisive of
the jurisdictional questions in this case.

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
235 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

An interest in a distributive share of an estate (a fortiori
in a trust fund) is not within the statute.
The prohibition is against suits by "an assignee" and
neither an administrator nor an executor are regarded as
assignees within the statute.
In support of these contentions see Ambler v. Eppinger,
137 U. S. 480; Bertha Zinc & Mineral Co. v. Vaughan,
88 Fed. Rep. 566; Brown V. Fletcher, 206 Fed. Rep. 461;
Bushnell v. Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387; Chappedelaine v.
Dechenaux, 4 Cr. 308; Coal Company v. Blatchford, 11
Wall. 172; Croxall v. Shererd, 5 Wall. 268; Desh'lerv. Dodge,
16 How. 622; Fourth Street Bank v. Yardley, 165 U. S. 634;
Rice v. Houston, 13 Wall. 66; Sere v. Pitot, 6 Cr. 333.
Mr. William P. S. Melvin, with whom Mr. Safford A.
Crummey was on the brief, for appellees:
The present statute fixing the jurisdiction of District
Courts is unqualified in its expression that they cannot
take cognizance of a suit to recover upon a chose in action
in favor of any assignee unless such suit might have been
prosecuted in the court if no assignment had been made.
See § 24, Jud. Code, 1st subd.; § 11, Judiciary Act, 1789,
1 Stat. 78; Act of March 3, 1887; Act of August 13, 1888;
Sere v. Pitot, 6 Cr. 335; Corbin v. Black Hawk Co., 105
U. S. 659; Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124 U. S. 730; Deshler v.
Dodge, 16 How. 622; Bushnell v. Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387;
Ambler v. Eppinger, 137 U. S. 480; and Bertha Zinc Co. v.
Vaughan, 88 Fed. Rep. 566.
This court early defined what is a "chose in action" as
the term is used in the statute, and the term has a familiar
meaning in our law literature and decisions.
The term is one of comprehensive import. It includes
all the infinite varieties of contracts, covenants and
promises which confer on one party a right to recover a
personal chattel or a sum of money by action. Sheldon v.
Sill, 8 How. 441; Bushnell v. Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387;
voL. ccxxxv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

United States v. Moulton, 27 Fed. Cas. 11, 12; Mercantile
Trust Co. v. Gumbernat, 143 N. Y. App. Div. 308; Bouvier's
Law Dictionary; 2 Blackstone Comm. 389, 397; Ayers v.
West R. R., 48 Barb. 135; Gillett v. Fairchild,4 Den. 80;
Haskell v. Blair, 57 Mdssachusetts, 534, 536; Prudential
Life Ins. Co. v. Hann, 21 Ind. App. 525; Steele v. Gablin,
115 Georgia, 929; 3 Am. & Eng. Ency., 1st ed. Sub. Tit.
"Choses in Action," 236; Brown v. Fletcher, 206 Fed. Rep.
461.
Equitable' assignments of choses in action, as well as
legal assignments, are comprehended within the application of the statute. Sere v. Pitot, 6 Cr. 333; Corbin v.
Black Hawk County, 105 U. S. 659.
Ingersoll v. Coram, 211 U. S. 335, is not adverse to the
appellees' contention. The circumstances are totally
different.
MR.,JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants btought suit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for the
purpose of recovering from the Trustee an interest in a
trust estate which had been sold, transferred and assigned
by Conrad Morris Braker, the beneficiary. The complainants were citizens and residents of Pennsylvania.
Both defendants were citizens and residents of New York.
Notwithstanding the diversity of citizenship, the court
dismissed the bill on the ground that, as the assignor
Braker, a citizen of New York, could not in the United
States District Court, have sued Fletcher, Trustee and
citizen of the same State, neither could the Complainants,
his assignees, sue therein, even though they were residents
of the State of Pennsylvania.
The appeal from that decision involves a construction of
§ 24 of the Judicial Code, which limits the jurisdiction of

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States District Court when suit is brought
therein

.

.

.

"to recover upon any promissory note

or other chose in action in favor of any assignee. .
,1
This section of the Judicial Code is the last expression of
a policy intended to prevent certain assignees from proceeding in the United States courts.
The restriction was imposed not only to prevent fraudulent transfers, made for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction, but in apprehension that promissory notes and
like papers might be transferred in good faith by the
citizens of one State to those of another, and thus render
the maker liable to suit in the Federal court. United
States Bank v. Planters'Bank, 9 Wheat. 904, 909.
Except for a short time when the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, restricted suits "founded on a contract in favor of an assignee," the several statutes on the
subject, -in force prior to the adoption of § 24, made this
limitation on the jurisdiction of United States courts
apply to "any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose in action in favor of any assignee"
(Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73, 78, § 11;
Rev. Stat., § 629; Act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat.
552; Act of August 13,, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, 434).
These were technical terms of variable meaning. They
might have been given a literal construction, in which case
the act would not have wholly remedied the evil intended
to be corrected. They Were also susceptible of a construction so broad as to include subjects far beyond the congressional policy. For a "chose in action embraces in
No district court shall have cognizance of any suit (except
upon foreign bills of exchange) to recover upon any promissory note or
other chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent
holder if such instrument be payable to bearer and be not made by
any corporation, unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such
court to recover upon said note or other chose in action if no assignment
had been made." 36 Stat. 1091.

OCTOBER TERM. 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

one sense all rights of action." Dundas v. Bowler, 3
McLean, 204, 208. So that if the words of the statute
had been given their most comprehensive meaning every
assignee or vendee would have been prevented from suing
in the United States court unless the assignor could have
maintained the action. It is evident, however, ihat there
was no intent to prevent assignees and purchasers of
property from maintaining an action in the Federal court
to recover such property, even though the purchaser was
an assignee and the deed might, in a sense, be called a
chose in action.
On the other hand, to construe the statute so as to
only prohibit suits in such courts by the assignees of
notes, drafts and written promises to pay, would have
left open a wide field and enabled assignees of accounts
and of claims arising out of breaches of contracts to proceed in the Federal courts, although the parties to the original agreement could not have there sued.
While, therefore, it was admitted in Sere v. Pitot, 6
Cranch, 332, that suits to recover the "contents of a
chose in action" referred to "assignable paper," yet, in
view of the general policy of the Act, these words were
given a construction so broad as to include suits on accounts and on claims other than those containing written
promises to pay.
That rulng, though criticized in Bushnell v. Kennedy,
9 Wall. 387, 393, was constantly followed (Sheldon v. Sill,
8 How. 441; Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124 U. S. 730), and it
has b~een settled that the prohibition applied not only to
suits on instruments which might be said to have, "contents," but also to suits for the recovery of "all debts, and
all claims for damages for breach of contract, or for torts
connected with a contract . . . but . . . not to
suits to recover the specific thing or damages for its wrongful caption or detention." Bushnell v. Kennedy, 9 Wall
387, 390, 391. Ibid. 392. Neither did it apply to suits

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for damages for neglect of duty. Deshler v. Dodge, 16
How. 622, 631; Ambler v. Eppinger, 137 U. S. 480.
Such is still the law under § 24; for, according to the
statutory rule for construing the Judicial Code 1 it may
be assumed that the slight difference in language between
the act of 1887 ("contents of a chose .in action in favor
of the assignee") and § 24 ("suits upon a chose in action
in favor of an assignee") was not intended to bring about
any change in the law, but merely as a continuation of
the existing statute. In continuing the statute Congress
also carried forward the construction that the restriction
on jurisdiction applied to suits for damages for breach of
contract, but did not apply to suits for a breach of duty
nor for a recovery of things. It therefore becomes necessary to determine whether these proceedings by Bill in
Equity are suits by assignees on a chose in action; or,
suits for the recovery of an interest in property by the
transferee or assignee.
From the allegations of the two bills it appears that
the $50,000, mentioned in the fifteenth item, and the
$120,000, proceeds of the residuum of the estate referred
to in the sixteenth item, had each been invested by the
Trustee-but whether in real estate, tangible personal
property, stocks or bonds is not stated.
If the trust estate consisted of land it would not be
claimed that a deed conveying seven-tenths interest
therein was a chose in action within the meaning of § 24
of the Judicial Code. If the funds had been invested in
tangible personal property, there is, as pointed out in
the Bushnell Case, nothing in § 24 to prevent the holder
I "SEc. 294. The provisions of this act, so fdr as they are substantially the same as existing statutes, shall be construed as continuations
thereof, and not as new enactments, and there shall be no implication
of a change of intent by reason of a change of words in such statute,
unless such change of intent shall be clearly manifest." 36 Stat.
1167.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

by virtue of a bill of sale from suing for the "recovery of
the specific thing or damages for its wrongful caption or
detention." And if the funds had been converted into
cash, it was still so far property-in fact instead of in
action-that the owner, so long as the money retained its
earmarks, could recover it or the property into which it
can be traced, from those having notice of the trust. In
either case, and whatever its form, trust property was held
by the Trustee,-not in opposition to the cestui que trust
so as to give him a chose in action, but-in possession for
his benefit in accordance with the terms of the testator's
will,
It is said, however, that this case does not relate to the
sale of land, or of things, or even to a transfer of a definite
fund, but to two assignments of $35,000,-to be made out
of money or property in the hands of a trustee. It is
claimed that this was an assignment of a chose in action
within the meaning of § 24 of the Judicial Code. Givirp
the words of the statute the most extensive construction
authorized by previous decisions, they can only refer to
a chose in action based on contract. Kolze v. Hoadley,
200 U. S. 76, 83. The restriction on jurisdiction is limited
to cases where A is indebted to B on an express or implied
promise to pay; B assigns this debt or claim to C, and C
as assignee of such debt sues A thereon or to foreclose
the security. Or where A has contracted with B and B
assigns the contract to C who sues to enforce his rights,
by Bill for specific performance or, by an action for damages for breach of the contract. Shoecraft v. Bloxham, 124
U. S. 730, 735.
But here there was no contract and this is not a suit
for a breach of a contract. For whatever may have been
the earlier view of the subject (Holmes Common Law, 407,
409) the modern cases do not treat the relation between
Trustee and cestui que trust as contractual. The rights of
the beneficiary here depended not upon an agreement

BROWN v. FLETCHER.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

between him and Braker, but upon the terms of the will
creating the trust and the duty which the law imposed
upon the Trustee because of his fiduciary position. And
a proceeding by the beneficiary or his assignee for the enforcement of rights in and to the property, held-not in
opposition to but-for the benefit of the beneficiary,
could not be treated as a suit on a contract, or as a suit
for the recovery of the contents of a chose in action, or as a
suit on a chose in action. Upham v. Draper, 157 Massachusetts, 292; Herrick v. Snow, 94 Maine, 310. See also
Edwards v. Bates, 7 Man. & G. 590; Nelson v. Howard, 5
Maryland, 327.
The beneficiary here had an interest in and to the property that was more than a bare right and much more than
a chose in action. For he had an admitted and recognized
fixed right to the present enjoyment of the estate with a
right to the corpus itself when he reached the age of fiftyfive. His estate in the property thus in the possession of
the Trustee, for his benefit, though defeasible, was alienable to the same extent as though in his own possession
and passed by deed. Ham v. Van Orden, 84 N. Y. 257,
270; Stringer v. Young, Trustee, 191 N. Y. 157; Lawrence
v. Bayard, 7 Paige, 70; Woodward v. Woodward, 16 N. J.
(Eq.) 83, 84. The instrument by virtue of which that alienation was evidenced,-whether called a deed, a bill of sale,
or an assignment,-was not a chose in action payable to
the assignee, but an evidence of the assignee's right, title,
and estate in and to property. Assuming that the transfer
was not colorable or fraudulent, the Federal statutes have
always permitted the vendee or assignee to sue in the
United States courts to recover property or an interest in
property when the requisite value and diversity of citizenship existed. Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280. The
equity jurisdiction of such courts extends to suits by heirs
against executors and administrators (Security Co. v.
Black River Bank, 187 U. S. 211, 228) and to suits against

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

Trustees for the recovery of an interest in the trust property by the beneficiary or his assignee.
The conclusion that § 24 of the Judicial Code did not
deprive the District Court of jurisdiction, to enforce
complainants' interest under the assignments executed by
the cestui que trust, was foreshadowed in Ingersoll v. Coram,
211 U. S. 335, 361. That was a proceeding by an assignee
to enforce an equitable lien on an heir's interest in an
estate. In that case it was claimed that because the
assignor could not have sued in the United States court,
neither could the assignee maintain his Bill therein. The
case Was disposed of on another ground but the court
said that "it is certainly very disputable if an interest in a
distributive share of an estate is within the statute."
That language was used in reference to a suit for the
recovery of part of a fund in the hands of an executor, who
held primarily for the payment of the testator's debts.
There the legatees, distributees and assignees had no such
vested interest in specific property as is the case here
where all of the property in the hands of the Trustee was
held for the purpose of paying the income to Braker until
he reached the age of fifty-five, when the corpus was to be
delivered to him [or to his assignees] in fee. That interest
was transferable and the purchaser was not precluded by
§ 24 from suing in the United States court for the interest
so transferred.
This view of the record makes it unnecessary to discuss
the question as to whether the Executors of Wood could
in any event be treated as assignees of the character referred to in § 24 (Chappedelainev. Dechenaux, 4 Cranch,
305, 306), since their title was cast upon them by operation
of law. The nature of the case is also such that we cannot
consider the effect of an assignment of $35,000 out of the
$50,000, if it shall appear that the trust estate in the hands
of the Trustee consists of property and not of money.
These are questions which the United States District

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. FINN.
235 U. S.

Syllabus.

Court for the Southern District of New York has jurisdiction to hear and determine between these residents
and citizens of different States.
Decrees reversed.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. FINN AND OTHERS AS RAILROAD
COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 546.

Argued December 11, 14, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Where the jurisdiction of a Federal court is invoked because of questions raised under the Federal Constitution it extends to the determination of all questions presented, irrespective of the disposition
that may be made of the Federal questions or whether it is necessary
to decide them at all. Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576.
While the rule applicable to the Interstate Commerce Commission
that an order made indisputably contrary to the evidence, or without any evidence, is arbitrary and subject to be set aside, may also
be applicable to orders of the Kentucky Railroad Commission, in this
case held, 'that there was substantial evidence to support the order establishing rates and the Commission had jurisdiction under the MeChord Act to make the order reestablishing a former rate.
Where the evidence shows that special rates on a particular commodity
were voluntarily established and were maintained for many years
after the avowed reason for introducing them had ceased to exist, and
the carrier's reason for an advance was not because they were inadequate but because they gave rise to discrimination, there is a reasonable inference that the advanced rates are unreasonably high which
is sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Kentucky Railroad Commission under the MeChord Act to make an order regstablishing the
original rates and to support the conclusion that such rates were remunerative and should be reestablished.
Where, in a proceeding before a state Railroad Commission, complaining shippers specified the amount of extortionate charges for which

