OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

that the suit mast be brought in the District Court of the
United States in the district where the contract was performed. It would seem as if the law owed him no further
care. If he chooses he may institute proceedings if another has not done so. If another has, he knows in what
court and within what time and he may intervene. He
has, therefore, the means of suit or the means of intervention. An attentive waiting is all that is necessary for
either, and indeed is his ultimate safeguard, as intervention must depend on a suit previously instituted.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings.in accordance with this opinion.

JOHN Ii ESTATE, LIMITED, v. BROWN.
ERROR TO- THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No.. 98. Argued November 13, 1914.-Decided December 7, 1914.
The decision of the Supreme Court of the Hawaiian Islands, made while
the present Territory was an independent sovereignty, in a case construing a will, that a devise of lands was in fee and not in trust, should
not be disturbed or pronounced void by the courts of the Territory
on grounds mainly of form and procedure.
A duly filed written decision of the highest court of the former sovereignty must be regarded as an adjudication if at that time it was the
recognized practice that the case, the submission and the written
decision constituted the record.
Where the constitution and statutes of the former sovereignty permitted
the highest court to fill a vacancy by calling in a member of the bar,
and it was the practice for years to fill more than one vacancy, the
question of the validity of a judgment of that court should not be
raised long after the change of sovereignty.
Even if under the statutes of the Republic of Hawaii questions in equity

JOHN Ii ESTATE v. BROWN.
235 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

could not be reserved, if the higlhest court did act on questions so reserved and entertained the cause, it had authority to decide and its
judgment cannot be subsequently attacked in another court on that
ground.
Even if a case holding that a prior decision should not be disturbed did
not again make the matter resjudicata,the later ease may be referred
to as authority with regard to local procedure.
201 Fed. Rep. 224, reversed.
THE

facts, which involve a will as the same had been

construed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Hawaii

and the effect of that decision as an adjudication in subsequent actions in the courts of the Territory, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Reuben D. Silliman, with whom Mr. Joseph Larocque and Mr. Clarence Blair Mitchell were on the brief,

for plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. A. Wilder, with whom Mr. F. E. Thompson was

on the brief, for defendants in error:
The land was devised to Irene for life, remainder in fee
to her children.
Counsel for plaintiff in error contend that the Supreme
Court of Hawaii has already decided that under the will
Irene was given the fee, and the opinion of the court is
claimed to have adjudicated the claims of these defendants in error adversely to them and that they are bound
conclusively thereby. The opinion in the first case, 11
Hawaii, 47, cannot be held to be res judicata.
The alleged court, which rendered the opinion, was not
legally constituted, and so its acts were absolutely void.
These defendants in error were not parties to that cause,
and no jurisdiction was ever acquired over them.
The opinion was rendered upon questions reserved by a
circuit judge, and no decree was ever entered in that
cause.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

235 U. S.

If any question was legally litigated and determined
within the meaning of res judicata, it was only the question whether or not a trust existed, and that any question
as to the nature of the devise to Irene and her children
was only incidentally and collaterally involved.
The court delivering the first opinion as it was constituted was not a legal court, and its acts were therefore
void and subject to collateral attack. See § 1, Art. 83,
Constitution of the Republic of Hawaii, promulgated in
1894; Laws 1892, c. 57, § 56, as amended by Act 12, Laws
of 1896; Van Slyke v. Ins. Co., 39 Wisconsin, 390; State
v. Phillips, 27 La. Ann. 663; State v. Sadler, 26 So. Rep.
390, 395.
A person undertaking to act as substitute for a judge of
a court cannot be regarded as a de facto judge for the very
reason that he has no commission, or any color of title,
and does not claim the office but actually recognizes the
incumbency of the real judge for whom he purports to be
substituting only.
The court had no jurisdiction upon questions reserved
in equity. Laws 1892, c. 57, § 72; Revised Laws Hawaii,
§ 1862. See also Act 55, Laws 1907; Brown v. Brown, 11
Hawaii, 47; County Commissioners of Hampshire, 140
Massachusetts, 181; Bearce v. Bowker, 115 Massachusetts,
129; Terry v. Brightman, 129 Massachusetts, 535; Taft
v. Stoddard, 141 Massachusetts, 150; Johnson v. Parotte,
46 Nebraska, 51, 56.
There being no jurisdiction, the opinion of the court in
the first case was void, the same as if it had been made
by any other three members of the bar. See Elliott v.
Peirsol, 1 Pet. 328, 340; Williamson v. Berry, 8 How. 495,
541; Lewers & Cooke V. Redhouse, 14 Hawaii, 290, 294.
Jurisdiction of the subject-matter cannot be conferred
by consent or waiver. Dudley v. Mayhew, 3 N. Y. 9, 12;
Cooley, Const. Lim. (7th Ed.) 575-6; Holloway v. Brown,
14 Hawaii, 170; In re Bishop, 11 Hawaii, 33.

JOHN Ii ESTATE v. BROWN.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

No decree was ever entered in the first case, and it is
therefore no bar. 16 Cyc. 471; 5 Enc. P1. & Pr. 949;
Oklahoma v. McMaster, 196 U. S. 529, 533; Bouldin v.
Phelps, 30 Fed. Rep. 547, 578; Springerv. Bien, 128 N. Y.
99; Wilson v. Hubbard, 39 Washington, 671; Hart v.
Brierly, 189 Massachusetts, 598, 604; Chicago v. Goodwillie, 208 Illinois, 252; Child v. Morgan, 51 Minnesota,
116, 121.
Federal courts are not bound by state decisions, on
general questions of law.
Federal courts are not bound by state decisions, particularly when they are conflicting or when the law has
not been definitely settled.
Federal courts are not bound by dicta of a state court.
Even assuming that the Supreme Court in the second
case was in a position to pass upon the validity of the
decision in the- first case, it wholly fails to even consider
the fact that no final decree had ever been entered in the
first case at all, which fact leaves yet to be decided and
adjudicated upon a point which we contend can allow but
one conclusion, namely, that the first case never reached
final judgment, was therefore utterly worthless as res
judicata, and could be given no possible effect by any
subsequent holding in another case.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case began as a proceeding by the United States
for the taking of certain land. The land was condemned
and the sum that was determined by the judgment to be
the compensation due to the owners was paid into court.
Supplementary proceedings then were had in the cause,
according to local statutes, for the determination of the
title to this fund as among different claimants who appeared and set up their claims. The plaintiff in error

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

claimed the whole by virtue of a deed from Irene Ii
(Brown), daughter of John Ii, to its grantor, alleging that
John Ii devised the land to Irene in fee and that her title
in fee was established by judgments of the Supreme
Courts of the Hawaiian Islands and of the Territory of
Hawaii. The defendants in error) two of the three chil-.
dren of Irene, claim one-third each, subject to their
mother's life-interest, on the ground that John Ii devised
the land to Irene for life only with remainder to her
children. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the
latter claim. 119 C. C. A. 458; 201 Fed, Rep. 224.
It will be enough to giye a few passages from the agreed
but more or less impugned translation of the will out of
its original Hawaiian: "All my property both real and
personal shall descend to my heirs who are mentioned below as follows: First. Irene Haalou Ii, my own daughter is
the first heir as follows: [describing certain lands, including
I do hereby appoint J. Komthat condemned] . .
oikehuehu, A. F. Judd, they both to be the executors and
guardians of the person and property of my daughter the
first devisee mentioned in this will. All the income from
the lands that are leased and all other receipts from all
the lands of my daughter they two alone shall have the
sole care of it until she becomes of age or has children of
her own; they shall be the executors during the lifetime of
my daughter and her children in accordance with my
wishes as expressed in this will. . . . And further, if
my daughter should die having borne children, then the
property shall descend to her children and if she should
die without having had any children the property shall
descend to her own mother, and if she should be dead then
the property shall descend to my brother J. Komoikehuehu." It is obvious what hesitation an American court
ought to feel in attempting to construe a Hawaiian will on
the strength of this translation, and, still more, in disregarding the opinion of the court on the spot, familiar

JOHN 1i ESTATE v. BROWN.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with Hawaiian habits and not improbably with Hawaiian
speech.
John Ii died in 1870. In 1894, the Hawaiian Islands
then being an independent sovereignty, a bill was filed by
Irene and her two children, the present defendants in
error, by A. F. Judd as their next friend, and A. F. Judd, as
executor, guardian of Irene, and trustee under the will,
against Charles A. Brown, husband of Irene, alleging that
Brown was in possession and squandering the estate, and
praying among other things for a construction of the
will and determination of the relative rights of the children and mother and for the reinstatement of Judd in
possession as trustee. An amended complaint joined
Sanford B. Dole as plaintiff, he having been appointed to
take the place of Komoikehuehu deceased. The case
dragged along and finally, the Chief Justice and one of
the Justices being disqualified, the remaining Justice requested and authorized two members of the bar to sit
with him, which they did. At the hearing they reserved
questions of law to the Supreme Court of the Islands, two
of which were: "1. Was a trust created in the property
devised to Irene Ii by the will of her father John Ii?
5. Has Irene Ii Brown, a fee simple title in said property
or is her estate one for life only?" The Supreme Court
entertained the case and, as appears from the opinion,
against the earnest contention of the counsel for the plaintiffs decided on May 11, 1897, that Irene, after she bore. a
child, became the owner in fee simple of the estate. This
decision is relied upon as an adjudication concluding the
present case. Brown v. Brown, 11 Hawaii, 47,
The chief objection that is urged to the conclusiveness of
the decision is that after the opinion of the Supreme Court
no further proceedings were taken in the case. This
seems to Ise answered by the decision next mentioned, and
by the analogy, if not by the letter of the statute then in
force as to cases stated; that the case, the submission, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

the written decision, shall constitute the record. Civil
Code of 1859, § 1142. It is said further that the Court was
not legally constituted because two members of the bar
were called in. The Constitution and statutes allowed the
filling of a vacancy if a Justice was disqualified but it is
said that the power extended only to a single one. We
understand that the practice was the other way for years,
and as the Supreme Court seems to have felt no difficulty
it would be most undesirable to allow the question to be
raised now. It is urged again that the children were not
properly parties and were not separately represented although their interest was adverse to their mother's. The
bill was brought by the trustee for instructions among
other things and the cestuis que trust were made parties.
It is true that they do not appear to have had separate
counsel, but it appears from the decision of the court that
the counsel represented and pressed their interest against
that of their mother, and it seems to us not permissible to
declare that the highest court of what was then a foreign
jurisdiction did not know its own powers and was proceeding in a manner that the court of another country
might pronounce wholly void. Finally it is said that
under the statutes in force questions in equity could not be
reserved by circuit judges sitting in chambers. To this
again it is enough to answer that the court had authority
to decide that matter and, although disapproving the
practice, entertained the cause and thereby established its
warrant in law.
In January, 1903, another bill was brought by the defendants in error, by their next friend, A. F. Judd, the
purposes of which it is unnecessary to state further than it
sought to have the previous decision declared void and
the interest of Irene adjudged to be only. a life estate.
The bill was dismissed upon demurrer and the Supreme
Court of the Territory expressed the opinion that the
previous decision precluded a collateral attack by the

JOHN Ii ESTATE v. BROWN.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

minors, dealing in terms with all the objections except the
first which it sufficiently disposed of by assuming the
prior decision to have the effect of a formal decree. Brown
v. Brown, 15 Hawaii, 308. See Calaf v. Calaf, 232 U. S.
371, 374. It is unnecessary to consider whether this
second case again made the matter res judicata. It is
enough to refer to it here as authority with regard to
matters of local procedure, as to which innumerable cases
have established the weight to be given to the local courts.
Tevis v. Ryan, 233 U. S. 273, 291; Nadal v. May, 233 U. S.
447, 454.
It appears to us surprising to suggest that the highest
court of the Hawaiian Islands did not decide in accordance with the requirements of the law of which that court
was the final mouthpiece; and that courts of another
jurisdiction, sitting long afterwards, know its duties and
powers so much better as to be entitled to pronounce its
proceedings void. The caution required in such a venture,
even as against less authoritative decisions, has been
stated and restated, from United States v. Percheman, 7
Pet. 51, 95, to Michigan Trust Co. v. Ferry, 228 U. S.
346, 354. And when it is added that the grounds for the
supposed invalidity are matters mainly of form and
local procedure and wholly of local control, it seems to
us plain that the judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

