UNITED STATES v. ERIE RAILROAD.
235 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

In No. 446,-the appeal of Farish, the depositor-for
reasons expressed in the dissenting opinion in Lankford v.
Platte Iron Works Company, this day decided, ante, p. 461,
it seems to me that the decree here under review should
be reversed.
In No. 447,-the cross-appeal-I concur in the result
reached by the court.

UNITED STATES v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN

No. 552.

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued December 14, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Qucere, whether-§ 184, Penal Code, prohibiting the carriage of letters
or packets otherwise than in the mail by carriers on post routes, except under certain specified conditions, is penal or remedial, or

whether it is to have a liberal or strict construction.
Letters of officers of the carrier, a railroad company, to officers of the
telegraph company with which it has a contract and in whose business it participates, relating to immediate and day by day action, is

current, as distinguished from exceptional, business and falls within
the permitted exceptions of § 184, Penal Code.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 184 of
the Penal Code of the United States, prohibiting, except
under specified conditions, the carriage of letters and
packets otherwise than in the mails, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace, with whom
The Solicitor General was on the brief, for the United
States:
Section 184 is a revenue statute and should be liberally
voL. CCXXXV-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

235 U. S.

construed. United States v. Bromley, 12 How. 88; Johnson
v. Railway, 196 U. S. 17; United States v. 36 Bbls. Wine, 7
Blatch. 463; 4 Ops. A. G. 161.
The letters carried were not related to current business
of the railroad. In fact neither letter related to the railroad company's business.
The agreement throughout distinguishes between the
railroad and the telegraph company's business. West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. Penna. Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 867; 21 Ops. A. G.
400.
Section 184 is not essentially penal in its nature, but
is rather remedial, its main purpose being to preserve
the revenues of the United States, and the great establishment which has been built up under the statutes
of the United States for the benefit of the whole people.
United States v. Bromley, 12 How. 88.
A statute passed for the purpose of protecting the
revenues of the United States is not to be strictly construed, even where it provides a severe penalty. Johnson
v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1; United States v. 36
Barrels of Wines, 7 Blatch. 459, 463; 4 Ops. Att'y Gen'l,
159, 161, 162.
Construing § 184 fairly, these letters did not relate "to
current business", of the defendant.
From 1825 on Congress has endeavored to protect the
governmental monopoly in the carriage of the mails by
prohibiting entirely such carriage by private expresses and
prohibiting it generally to private parties except in the
cases where the letters related to the articles being conveyed at the same time.
Every word of the statute must be given some meaning;
"current" was added as a word of limitation.
Neither of the letters set out in the indictment related
to such business. Even if they related to the railroad
company's business at all they evidently did not relate
to its passing, present business.

UNITED STATES v. ERIE RAILROAD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Rush Taggart for defendant in error:
Both of the letters in question relate to the "current
business" of the Erie Railroad Company and there was
no violation of Penal Laws, § 184. See § 5263, Rev. Stat.;
Pensacola Tel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S.530; United States
v. Un. Pac. Ry., 160 U. S.1; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Penna.
R. R., 195 U. S. 540.
Penal Laws, § 184, has not yet received judicial construction. It is practically a reenactment of § 3985, Rev.
Stat., in force for a great many years before the codification of the penal laws, which was construed by Attorney
General Harmon as intended only to prohibit the transportation of communications between third parties, and
that it did not prohibit the transportation of communications, whatever their substance, belonging to the carrier
or relating to its business. 21 Ops. Atty. -Gen. 394.
As to significance of the word "current" as used in the
statute, see Thomas v. Peoria &c. R. R., 36 Fed. Rep. 808,
819; Taylor v. Mayo, 110 U. S. 330.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered

the opinion of the

court.
Indictment in two counts against the railroad company
for carrying otherwise than in the mails certain letters in
violation of § 184 of the Penal Code of the United States.
The section is as follows:
"SEC. 184. Whoever, being the owner, driver, conductor,
master, or other person having charge of any stagecoach,
railway car, steamboat, or conveyance of any kind which
regularly performs trips at stated periods on any post
route, or from any city, town, or place to any other city,
town, or place between which the mail is regularly carried,
and which shall carry, otherwise than in the mail, any
letters or packets, except such as relate to some part of
the cargo of such steamboat or other vessel, to the current

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

business of the carrier, or to some article carried at the
same time by the same stagecoach, railway car, or other
vehicle, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be fined
not more than fifty dollars."
The counts are similar except as to the letter carried.
The indictment alleged that the railroad between designated points (Jersey City, N. J., and Montgomery, N. Y.)
regularly made trips; that it had made a contract with the
Western Union Telegraph Company by which provision
was made for a joint operation of telegraph lines over the
right of way of the railroad company; that the business
was under the supervision of a joint superintendent named
E. P. Griffith, and that the telegraph office at Montgomery-both for railroad and commercial business-was in

charge of G. A. Osborne, the station agent of the railroad;
that on June 27, 1912, the railroad carried otherwise than
in the mails the following letter:
"June 27, 1912.
"Mr. G. A. Osborne,
"Agent, Erie Railroad and Manager W. U. T. Co.,
"Montgomery, N. Y.
"Dear Sir: The revenue of the W. U. T. Co.'s receipts
at Montgomery, N. Y., would indicate that the new telegraph service, such as day and night letters, had not been
thoroughly presented to the people of Montgomery.

At

many of the Erie Railroad stations similar to Montgomery
very handsome increases in telegraph receipts have been
shown on account of this new service and as the Erie
Railroad participates in the telegraph revenues from its
railroad stations it is desired thattheir revenue from the
telegraph company shall increase as well as the revenue
from its freight and passenger traffic, and I hope you
will do everything to make such showing.
"Yours truly,
"(Sd.) E. P. Griffith,
"Supt. of Telgh."

UNITED STATES v. ERIE IIAILROAD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The letter upon which the second count is based was
as follows:
"June 27, 1912.
"'Mr. G. A. Osborne,
"Agent Erie Railroad Co. and Manager W. U. Tel. Co.,
",Montgomery, Orange County, N. Y.
"Dear Sir: I forwarded to you by train mail on June 20th
a copy of the new Western Union Telegraph Company's
tariff book, which shows a considerable number of changes
in telegraph rates, particularly with respect to the old
40-cent rate having been reduced to 30 cents to a considerable number of points, and I would ask that you
familiarize yourself with the new rates in order to avoid
check errors. The misquoting of rates creates a large
number of error sheets and correspondence, and not only
confuses the auditing department of the W. U. Tel. Co.,
but also delays settlements between the Telegraph Company and the Erie Railroad.
"As you are aware, the Erie Railroad receives a percentage of the W. U. Tel. Co.'s telegraph. receipts at all
Erie railroad stations, where the agent of the railroad,
under contract with the telegraph company, also acts as
the agent or manager of the telegraph company, and that
the handling of Western Union telegrams, in making up
of Western Union reports, from which the railroad company's proportion of receipts are figured, and all of the
accounting and correspondence relative to Western Union
matters are as much the current business of the railroad
as handling accounts or reports made in connection with
the freight shipments or sale of tickets for the railroad,
the railroad company receiving a revenue from all.
"Your attention is specially called to modification of
Rule No. 8 for the instructions to all New York State
offices only and to be used instead of Rule 8, printed in
the tariff book, printed copy of which I enclose herewith.
"Yours truly,
"(Sd.) E. P. Griffith, "Supt. of Telgh."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The indictment was demurred to by the railroad company on the ground that the matters set forth therein
were not sufficient in law to constitute a crime. The
demurrer was sustained, the court expressing itself to
be "clearly of the opinion that the 'current buzifiess of
the carrier' referred to in section 184 is the kind of business in which it appears from the indictment the carrier
was engaged, and that the sending of the letters in question was in accordance with law."
The opinion of the court exhibits the point in the case,
to which, though a short one, considerable argument has
been addressed by counsel. The solution of it is in the
contract between the companies.
It is a very elaborate document, regulating the relations of the railroad and telegraph companies by a variety
of provisions and details. By it the railroad company
leased to the telegraph company the right to maintain
the telegraph line it (the railroad company) then had, and
operate the same and the right to build new lines. One
wire was to be provided for railroad use and one for commercial use, though joint wires were to be used where
nothing more was required.
Article 6 of the agreement is especially relied on by
the railroad company. It provides that at all telegraph
offices now or hereafter maintained at the stations of the
railroad company it shall, at its own expense, furnish
office room, light and heat for telegraph service and also
at, its own expense provide an operator and other employ6s, who, acting as agents for the telegraph company,
shall receive, transmit and deliver, exclusively for the
telegraph company, such commercial and public messages as may be offered and shall charge the telegraph company's tariff rates thereon and shall render
to the telegraph company monthly accounts thereof,
the railroad company to pay all of such receipts to the
telegraph or other employ~s but not to be responsible

ONrir)

235 U. S.

,rD IA'IrI,]

r,. jRItu, RAILROAD.

Opinion of the Court.

for the failure of its operators to pay over such receipts.
The telegraph company agrees to pay the railroad company as soon as practicable after the close of each month
25% of the cash receipts, at offices in the railroad company's stations or other public buildings, received from
commercial or public messages of the telegraph company,
with certain exceptions not material to mention, and transmit free telegrams relating to railroad business, the railroad company to carry materials, furnish offices and
operators, pay for certain lines, and give exclusive privileges, as far as possible to the telegraph company. The
railroad company is given the right to investigate the
accounts of the telegraph company so far as they relate
to such earnings. Either party may discontinue any of
its offices. If the telegraph company removes any of its
offices from the railroad company's stations the latter
company shall still have the right to continue doing a
commercial business in such station, and the telegraph
company will provide the usual signs for such business,
the railroad company not to solicit business in competition with the telegraph company.
By the twelfth article it is provided that the telegraph
lines and wires and the offices and operators in railroad
stations shall be under the supervision and control of a
competent joint superintendent of telegraph who shall
be appointed by the railroad company subject to the
approval of the telegraph company and be paid jointly
and equally by both companies at a salary to be fixed
by both, each company paying one-half thereof. Either
company may discharge the joint superintendent, but
his successor can only be appointed on the written consent
of both parties. By the ninth article it is expressly covenanted and agreed that the joint superintendent and all
other persons engaged in the work contemplated by the
agreement, by whichever company paid, shall be deemed

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

to be the servants .of the telegraph company except when
engaged in the transmissidn of messages for the railroad
company and in certain construction work.
It will be observed that while the companies in many
respects are independent they are also, in some respects
at least, dependent. The telegraph is a facility of the
railroad company and necessary to its operations, the
telegraph company doing what the railroad company did
for itself before the agreement and but for the agreement
with the telegraph company would have to do. The
railroad company has an interest in the receipts of the
other company and is concerned in their amount and the
maintenance and* increase of the telegraph business.
The control of the telegraph company's instrumentalities
and its offices and operators is in a "competent joint
superintendent of telegraph," in whose appointment the
railroad company has a voice and whom it also may discharge. It is, however, not possible, and keep this opinion
within a reasonable length, to detail the many ways in
which the two companies are related, and while it may
be said that there is a railroad business in which the telegraph company has no concern, that is, business distinctly railroad, yet it is also go far concerned with the
telegraph business as to make its efficient and successful
operation of interest to it. To promote such operation
was the purpose of the two letters which are the basis
of the indictment, and the business comes within the
description of the statute and is "current."
In reaching this conclusion it is not necessary to consider the character of the statute, whether it be penal or
remedial, or whether it is to have a strict or a liberal
construction. It is one justified by the words of the statute
and in view of the facts by its history, and is not precluded by anything that was said at the time the act was
amended. As originally enacted and carried into the
Revised Statutes (§ 3985) it forbade the carrying, " other-

UNITED STATES v. ERIE RAILROAD.
235 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wise than in the mail, any letters or packets, except such
as relate to some part of the cargo of such steamboat
or other vessel, or to some article carried at the same
time by the. same stage-coach, railway car, or other
vehicle."
The section coming before the Attorney General for
construction, the opinion was expressed that it only intended to prohibit the transportation of communications
between third parties and did not prohibit the transportation of communications, whatever their substance, belonging to the carrier or relating to the carrier's business.
21 Op. Atty. Genl. 394. It is the contention of the Government that when § 184 came to be enacted that construction was narrowed by the use of the word "current,"
Senator Bacon, who suggested it, in effect so declaring,
and urged it as an amendment so that the new section
might not relate, as the senator said, to the "financial
transactions" of the carriers, "or anything of that kind,
but to current business and operations." To this conlment counsel for the Government adds the definition of
"current " from the dictionaries as "now passing; present
in its course; as the current month or year"; and supposes
this to be the meaning which was in Senator Bacon's
mind and urges the view that "the 'current business' of
the carrier, therefore, is that business Which is, at any
particular time, in the present course of its transactions."
But so confined in meaning it is not very clear what enlargement the new section is on the old one. We cannot
so confine it. The statute certainly cannot mean that the
described business should have no relation to the past
and no connection with the future, however near. It may
be that there might be a business so completely consummated or so much in speculation that it could not be
described as "current," but the letters with which this
case is concerned are not of either character. They regard not only immediate but day-by-day action and so

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

relate to "current,"
business.

235 U. S.

as distinguished from exceptional
Judgment affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of the case.

LAWLOR v. LOEWE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 358.

Argued December 10, 11, 1914.-Decided January 5, 1915.

Irrespective of compulsion or even agreement to observe its intimation,
the circulation of a "we don't patronize" or "unfair" list manifestly
intended to put the ban upon those whose names appear therein,
among an important body of possible customers, combined with a
view to joint action and in anticipation of such reports, is within the
prohibition of the Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890, if it is intended to
restrain and does restrain commerce among the States. Eastern
States Retail Lumber Dealers Association v. United States, 234 U. S.
600.
This court agrees with the courts below that the action of the unions
and associations to which defendants belonged in regard to the use
and circulation of "we don't patronize" and "unfair dealer" lists,
boycotts, union labels and strikes, amounted to a combination and
conspiracy forbidden by the Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890.
In this case, held that the trial court properly instructed the jury to the
effect that defendants, members of labor unions who paid their dues
and continued to delegate authority to their officers to unlawfully
interfere with the interstate commerce of other parties, are jointly
liable with such officers for the damages sustained by their acts.
Members of unions and associations are bound to know the constitutions of their societies; and, on the evidence in this case, the jury
might well find that the defendants who were members of labor

