Boo

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

235 U. S.

FALLOWS v. CONTINENTAL & COMMERCIAL
TRUST & SAVINGS BANK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF TENGWALL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 69. Argued November 9, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.
FirstNational Bank v. Staake, 202 U. S. 141, and Rock Island Plow Co.
v. Reardon, 222 U. S. 354, followed as to the purposes of § 67-f of the
Bankruptcy Act of 1898 in subrogating the trustee to liens acquired
by creditors on assets of the bankrupt within four months of the
petitions.
Where the referee and both courts below have sustained the propriety
of subrogating the trustees to liens and no abuse of the discretion
vested in them is shown, this court accepts their action as correct.
The validity and priority of mortgage liens depend on the law of the
State.
The statutes of Illinois relating to the continuation of a lien of a mortgage on personal property have not been definitely construed by the
courts of that State; but this court sustains the construction of the
District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals holding that the
lien of such a mortgage expires as against judgment creditors three
years after record subject to one extension for twelve months on
proceedings taken in strict conformity with the statute, and that attempts to further extend the lien are ineffective.
As between judgment creditors and the holder of a mortgage on personal property, held that as the lien of the mortgage had expired as
to judgment creditors under the state law prior to the entry of the
judgments, and under the state law could not be further extended,
the lien of the judgments attached if not fraudulently obtained.
Executions delivered to the sheriff for service without any instructions
to refrain from carrying out the mandate, held, under the circumstances of this case, to include levy.
In the absence of directions not to levy it is the duty of the officers to
obey the directions and commands of the writ.
201 Fed. Rep. 82, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity and priority of
liens on property of the bankrupt of judgment creditors

FALLOWS v. CONTINENTAL SAVINGS BANK.
235 U. S.

301

Argument for Appellant.

and holders of notes secured by mortgage on personal
property, and the construction of the laws of Illinois relating to such mortgages, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Herman Frank for appellee.
Mr. Edwin H. Cassels for appellant, submitted:
Appellant's trust deed was invalid as against the bankrupt, and as against ordinary contract creditors, and had
it not been for the entry of the order preserving the lien
of the judgment creditors, and subrogating the appellee
to all rights thereunder, this controversy would not have
arisen. Union Trust Co. v. Trumbull, 137 Illinois, 146;
Allcock v. Log, 100 111. App. 573; Stewart v. Platt, 101
U. S. 731; Illinois Stat. Ann., 1913, par. 6755, p. 3687.
No liens on the property of the bankrupt were created
by the judgments.
All statutes which create liens must be strictly construed
and anything less than the delivery of an execution to the
sheriff for the purpose of demand and levy cannot operate
to create a lien in favor of a judgment creditor. Gilmore v.
Davis, 84 Illinois, 487; West. Un. Storage Co. v. Davis,
64 Ill. App. 452; Hawes v. Cameron, 23 Fed. Rep. 327;
Smith v. Irwin, 77 N. Y. 466; Doyle v. Herod, 9 Colo.
App. 257; William v. Mellor, 12 Colorado, 1.
The validity of the liens claimed by the judgment
creditors must be decided by the law of the State of
Illinois. Rock Island Plow Co. v. Reardon, 222 U. S.354.
"Serving" and "levying" mean entirely distinct and
different things.
An execution must be held by the sheriff "for levy" in
order to operate to create a lien upon the personal property of the judgment creditor. Rock Island Plow Co. v.
Reardon, 222 U. S. 354; Andrews v. Keep, -38 Alabama,
315; Waterman v. Merrill, 4 Vroom, 378; Kemble v. Harris,
36N. J. L. 526; State v. Hamilton, 16 N. J. L. 153; Harris

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

235 U. S.

v. Rankin, 4'Manitoba, 115; Wood v. Lowden, 117 California, 232; Cheston v. Gibbs, 13 L. J. Exch. 53.
Peck v. City National Bank, 51 Michigan, 353, distinguished, and see Hildreth v. Ellice, 1 Caines, 192.
The referee abused the discretio)n lodged in him by

the statute in entering the order preserving the alleged
liens of the judgment and in subrogating the trustee in
bankruptcy to all rights thereunder, even though it be
conceded that the entry of the judgment and delivery of
the executions to the sheriff did create liens. Section 67-f,
Bankruptcy Act of 1898; First National Bank v. Staake,
202 U. S. 141; Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S.516;
In re Moore, 107 Fed. Rep. 234; 5 Cyc. 367 (note); In re
Sentenne Co., 9 A. B. R. 648; 1 Remington on Bankruptcy,
1489; Jones on Chattel Mortgages, 5th ed., par. 138.
Appellant's claim should have been allowed as a secured
claim and appellant's mortgage should have been held
to be a first lien on the assets of the bankrupt. Appellant's lien should not have been postponed to the alleged
liens of the judgments.
A mortgage good as between the mortgagor and the
mortgagee isgood also against general creditors. Union
Trust Co. v. Trumbull, 137 Illinois, 146, 180; Hammon on
,Chattel Mortgages in Illinois, p. 50; Allcock v. Foy, 100
Ill. App. 573; In re Antigo Screen Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 249;
Stewart v. Platt, 101 U. S.731.
A mortgage in Illinois on after-acquired property creates
an equitable lien good as against the mortgagor and all
his creditors who have not obtained liens by equitable
proceedings. Borden v. Croak, 131 Illinois, 68, 75; Morganstein v. Commercial Bank, 125 Ill. App. 397; Illinois Stat.
Anno., 1913, par. 7580, p. 4298; Keller v. Robinson, 153
Illinois, 458.
The debt in the case at bar became due fifteen years
after the date of the bonds and mortgage. Notwithstanding this fact, the lien of the mortgage could be made

FALLOWS v. CONTINENTAL SAVINGS BANK.
235 U. S.

303

Opinion of the Court.

valid for four years, and appellant contends that it may
be kept valid by successive renewals in accordance with
the statute, until the maturity of the debt. Fuller v.
Smith, 71 Ill. App. 576.
The provision of the statute with reference to the renewal or extension of a lien, after it once has attached to
the personal property is to be liberally construed. Cox v.
Stern, 170 Illinois, 452; Hamilton v. Seegar, 75 Ill. App.
599; Fuller v. Smith, 71 Ill. App. 576. And see Swift v.
Hart, 12 Barb. 530; Newell v. Warner, 44 Barb. 258;
Nixon v. Stanley, 33 Hun, 247; Baker v. Becker, 67 Kansas,
831; Riederer v. Pfaff, 61 Fed. Rep. 872.
In re New York Economical PrintingCo., 6 A. B. R. 615;
Marsden v. Cornell, 62 N. Y. 215, distinguished.
The burden of establishing the judgment lien was upon
appellee and such liens could be established in one way
only, and that by showing a compliance with the statute.
Such compliance appellee has not shown.
MR.JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Bonds amounting to twenty thousand dollars were
issued to Fallows, .Trustee, by The Tengwall Company,
October 7, 1905, payable fifteen years thereafter. To
secure them a trust deed or mortgage covering all its personal property was executed and duly recorded in Cook
County, Illinois, November 1, 1905; an affidavit for the
extension of this was filed October 5, 1908; and a second
one October 6, 1909. On June 3, 1910, it gave promissory
notes to sundry creditors aggregating more than twentyfive thousand dollars; the same day the holders took judgments thereon by confession in the Superior Court of
Cook County; executions were taken out at once and delivered to the sheriff for service, but no levy was ever
made.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

June 4, 1910, a petition in involuntary bankruptcy was
filed against the Company; a Receiver immediately appointed took possession of its property; and an adjudication of bankruptcy followed, June 17th. The Continental
& Commercial Trust & Savings Bank was dulyselected
as trustee August 9th, and shortly thereafter presented a
petition asking that the lien created by the executions
upon the judgments of June 3rd be preserved, and that it
be subrogated thereto for the benefit of the estate. (Bankruptcy Act, § 67-c.) The referee held appellant's answer
resisting this petition insufficient, and allowed the subrogation as prayed.
The appellant sought to have all the bonds issued to
him allowed as a preferred debt, claiming that they were
secured by ihe above-mentioned trust deed, the lien of
which was good as against all the world. The trustee in
bankruptcy objected upon the ground that the deed could
not prevail over the execution creditors because the Illinois statute limited its effect to three years subject only
to a single extension of twelve months, and even if another
were possible the second affidavit for extension filed October 6, 1909, was one day too late, and therefore unavailing.
The referee sustained the objection and entered an order refusing to allow a preference in favor of the bonds. . The District Court approved this action, and its decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (201 Fed. Rep. 82).
Thereupon an appeal was taken to. this court.
Three assignments of error are relied upon: (1) The
order of the referee undertaking to subrogate the trustee
to the judgment creditors' liens was erroneous and ought
not to have been approved. (2) The trust deed of October 7, 1905, constituted a valid first lien upon all the
property specified therein when the bankruptcy proceedings were begun. (3) The executions issued upon judgments of June 3, 1910, created no liens upon the bankrupt's property.

FALLOWS v. CONTINENTAL SAVINGS BANK.
235 U. S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

Section 67-f of the Bankruptcy Act, approved July 1,
1898, . 541, 30 Stat. 544, 565, is copied in the margin,'
Its purposes have been pointed out in First National
Bank of Baltimore v. Staake, 202 U. S. 141, and Rock
Island Plow Co. v. Reardon, 222 U. S. 354.
The propriety of subrogating the trustee to whatever
liens were acquired under the judgments has been sustained by the three tribunals below. There is ro proof
showing an abuse ,of the discretion necessarily vested in
them, and we accept their action in that regard as correct.
The validity and priority of the liens in question depend
on the laws of the State, and § 9, chapter 77, and §§ 1 and
4, chapter 95, of Hurd's Revised Statutes of Illinois
2
(1913) are pertinent. They are copied in the margin.
"That all levies, judgments, attachments, or other liens, obtained
through legal proceedings against a person who is insolvent, at any time
within four months prior to the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against
him, shall be deemed null and void in case he is adjudged a bankrupt,
and the property affected by the levy, judgment, attachment, or other
lien shall be deemed wholly discharged and released from the same, and
shall pass to the trustee as a part of the estate of the bankrupt, unless
the court shall, on due notice, order that the right under such levy,
judgment, attachment, or other lien shall be preserved for the benefit of
the estate; and thereupon the same may pass to and shall be preserved
by the trustee for the benefit of the estate as aforesaid. And the court
may order such conveyance as shall be necessary to carry the purposes
of this section into effect: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall
have the effect to destroy or impair the title obtained by such levy,
judgment, attachment, or other lien, of a bona fide purchaser for value
who shall have acquired the same- without notice or reasonable cause
for inquiry."
2 "§ 9. No execution shall bind the goods and chattels of. the person
against whom it is issued, until it is delivered to the sheriff or other
proper officer te be executed; and for the better manifestation of the
time, the sheriff or other officer shall, on-receipt of such writ, indorse
upon the back thereof the day of the month and year and hour when
he received the same.
"§ 1. That no mortgage, trust deed or other conveyance of personal
property having the effect of a mortgage or lien upon such property,
VOL. ccxxxv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

235 U. S.

The provisions relative to the continuation of a mortgage
after three years have not been definitely and authoritatively construed by the courts of Illinois. The Circuit
Court of Appeals concluded that under them a mortgage
lien expires as to judgment creditors three years after
recordation, subject to one extension of twelve months
from the filing of an affidavit in strict conformity with
shall be valid as against the rights and interests of any third person,
unless possession thereof shall be delivered to and remain with the
grantee, or the instrument shall provide for the possession of the property to remain with the grantor, and the instrument is acknowledged
and recorded as hereinafter directed; and every such instrument shall,
for the purposes of this act, be deemed a chattel mortgage.
"§ 4. Such mortgage, trust deed or other conveyance of personal
property acknowledged as provided in this act shall be admitted to
record by the recorder of the county in which the mortgagor shall reside
at the time when the instrument is executed and recorded, or in case
the mortgagor is not a resident of this State, then in the county where
the property is situated and kept, and shall thereupon, if bona fide, be
good and valid from the time it is filed for record until the maturity of
the -entire debt or obligation, or extension thereof made as hereinafter
specified: Provided, sich time shall not exceed three years from the
filing of the mortgage unless within thirty days next preceding the expiration of such three years, or if the debt or obligation matures within
such three years, then within thirty days next preceding the maturity
of said debt or obligation the mortgagor and mortgagee, his or their
agent or attorney, shall file for record in the office of the recorder of
deeds 'of the county where the original mortgage is recorded, also with
the justice of 'the peace, or his successor, upon whose docket the same
Was entered, an 'affidavit setting forth particularly the interest which
the mortgagee -has by virtue of such -mortgage in the property therein
mentioned, and if such -mortgage is for the payment of money, the
amount remaining unpaid thereon, and the time when the same will
become due by extension or otherwise; which affidavit shall be recorded by such recorder and be entered upon the docket of said justice
of the peace, and thereupon the mortgage lien originally acquired shall
be continued and extended for and during the term of one year from the
filing of such affidavit, or until the maturity of the indebtedness or extension thereof secured by said mortgage: Provided, such time shall not
exceed one year from the date of filing such affidavit."

FALLOWS v. CONTINENTAL SAVINGS BANK.
235 U. S.

307

Opinion of the Court.

the -prescribed requirements. This conclusion harmonizes
with the purpose and history of the statute, and we think
is correct. The, lien claimed by appellant, as against
judgment creditors, therefore, did not continue after
the fifth day of October, 1909, and the attempt further to
extend it was ineffective. Cook v. Thayer, 11 Illinois, 617;
Porter v. Dement, 35 Illinois, 478, 480; Silvis v. Aultman,
141 Illinois, 632; Re New York Economical Printing Co.,
110 Fed. Rep. 514; Jones on Chattel Mortgages (5th ed.),
p. 287.
There is no adequate proof that the judgments against
the bankrupt were fraudulently obtained. The referee
found the executions were delivered to the..sheriff for
service; and appellant maintains this conclusively shows
they were not "delivered to the sheriff or other proper
officer to be executed," as required by the statute,-that
"service" does not include "levy." The record discloses
no instruction to the officer to refrain from carrying out
the mandtte of the writs, nor are there facts which clearly
indicate a conditional delivery.
The Circuit Court of Appeals decided that under the
circumstances of the present case the word service must
be taken to include levy, saying (201 Fed. Rep. 82, 85):
"In Peck v. City National Bank, 51 Michigan, 353, it is
said: 'Service of an execution includes every act and proceeding necessary to be taken by the sheriff to make the
money and includes the sale of the property when necessary.' The word has been defined to mean 'execution of
process.' 35 Cyc. 1432. This construction seems to us
reasonable in the case before us. It would be placing a
strained meaning upon the transaction to hold that, when
a party places an execution in the hands of a process
officer, the latter is not charged with the duty, without
further instructions, to proceed to make the money called
for by the writ; which itself commaids him to do so.
In the absence of directions not to levy, it is the duty

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

235 U. S.

of the officer to. obey the directions and commands of the
writ."
We are of opinion that the courts below properly interpreted the finding of the referee, and that the execution
creditors secured valid prior liens upon the bankrupt's
property. The decree is
Affirmed.

GARRETT, ADMINISTRATOR OF LEWIS v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 81.. Submitted November 12, 1914.-Decided November 30, 1914.
The Employers' Liability Act of 1908, prior to the amendment of
April 5, 1910, declared two distinct and independent liabilities resting
upon the common foundation of a wrongful injury:
1. Liability to the injured employ6 for which he alone could recover;
2. In case of death, liability to his personal representative for
the benefit of the surviving widow or husband and children, and if
none, then of the parents, but only fo" pecuniary loss and damage
resulting to them by reason of the death.
The declaration must contain an averment substantially of every fact
necessary to be proved to sustain plaintiff's right of recovery in order
to let in the proof; and every issue must be founded upon a certain
point, so that parties may come preipared with their evidence and
not be taken by surprise, and so that the jury may not be misled by
introduction of various matters.
While the same precision is not required as in pleadings at law, a convenient degree of certainty must be adopted as to bills in equity so as
to maintain plaintiff's case.
When proofs go to matters not set up in the bill, the. court cannot act
upon them as a ground for decision. They are not put in contestation by the pleadings.

