OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

explanation of the separation of items by the Commissioners is that they were not prepared to say that the
market value of the lot was $11,948.90, seeing that the
claimant bought it a few days before for $4,500, but that
they thought the additional value gained by the City's
act should be taken into account and shared between the
City and the owner of the land-a proposition to which we
cannot assent. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 451.
McGovern v. New York, 229 U. S. 363, 372.
The motion to remand was made on the ground that
Sage bought after the condemnation proceedings were
commenced and therefore was not entitled to remove the
suit to the Circuit Court. The maps showing the parcels
of real estate to be taken had been filed and notices had
been posted on the property before the conveyance to
Sage, but the petition for the appointment of Commissioners was not filed until after it had been made. We
see no reason to differ from the opinion of the Judge2
below that the proceeding was not commenced at the date
when Sage took.
Decree reversed.

LA ROQUE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 240. Argued October 15, 18, 1915.-Decided November 8, 1915.
The Nelson Act of January 14, 1889, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642, for allotment
to Chippewas of the White Earth Indian Reservation contemplated
only selections on the part of living Indians acting for themselves or
through designated representatives. There was no displacement of
the usual rule that incidents of tribal membership, like the membership itself, are terminated by death.

LA ROQUE v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

While not conclusive, the construction given to an act of Congress
relative to Indian allotments, in the-course of its actual execution by
the Secretary of the Interior, is entitled to great respect and ought
not to be overruled without cogent and persuasive reasons.
The fact that the act provided for a census of the Indians is not conclusive that the allotments were to be made to all those included in
the census. Fairbanks v. United States, 223 U. S. 215.
The act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1099, establishing a six year
limitation for actions by the United States to annul patents, has been
construed as being part of the public land laws and refers to patents
issued for public lands and does not relate to suits to annul trust
patents for allotments of reserved Indian lands.
The act of April 23, 1904, c. 1489, 33 Stat. 297, limiting and defining
the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to correct mistakes in,
and to cancel, trust patents for Indian allotments does not restrict
or define the powers or jurisdiction of the court to cancel such a
patent.
198 Fed. Rep. 645, affirmed.

THm facts, which involve the construction of the Nelson Act of 1889 and an allotment 'to a Chippewa Indian
in the White Earth Indian Reservation in Minnesota, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. T. Van Metre for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to cancel a so-called trust patent for an
allotment in the Whi(e Earth Indian Reservation in
Minnesota on the ground that the allotment was made inadvertently and in contravention of the act of January 14,
1889, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642, known as the Nelson Act. In
the Circuit Court there was a decree dismissing the bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

upon the merits and this was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals with instructions to enter a decree according to the prayer of the bill subject to a qualification
not here material. 198 Fed. Rep. 645.
The facts are not in dispute and are these: Vincent La
Roque, in whose name the trust patent issued, was a
Chippewa Indian born in 1883 of parents residing on the
White Earth Reservation and was among those whose
names were included in the census of Minnesota Chippewas
made under the Nelson Act. Had he lived he would have
been entitled to take an allotment under that act. He
died shortly after 1889 without an allotment being selected
by or for him. Thereafter an application in his name for
the allotment in question was presented to the allotting
officers, and upon this application the allotment was made
and the trust patent was issued, both in his name, as if the
selection were made while he was living. Henry La
Roque, the defendant, is his father and as sole heir claims
the land under the allotment and trust patent.
Whether the Nelson Act contemplated that allotments
should be made on behalf of Indians otherwise entitled
thereto but who should die without selecting or receiving
them is the principal question for decision. The regulations and decisions of the Secretary of the Interior, under
whose supervision the act was to be administered, show
that it was construed by that officer as confining the right
of selection to living Indians and that he so instructed the
allotting officers. While not conclusive, this construction
given to the act in the course of its actual execution is
entitled to great respect and ought not to be overruled
without cogent and persuasive reasons. United States v.
Moore, 95 U. S. 760, 763; Hastings & DakotaR. R. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357, 366; United States v. Hammers, 221
U. S. 220, 225, 228; Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627.
Not only so, but it receives additional force from its adoption by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit

LA ROQUE v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in Woodbury v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep. 302, where it
was said by District Judge Amidon in speaking for that
court: "Until the allotment was made, Woodbury's right
was personal-a mere float-giving him no right to any
specific property. This right, from its nature, would not
descend to his heirs. They, as members of the tribe, were
severally entitled to their allotments in their own right.
To grant them the right of their ancestor, in addition to
their personal right, would give them an unfair share of the
tribal lands. The motive underlying such statutes forbids
such a construction."
The Nelson Act embodied a plan for securing a cession
by the several bands of Chippewa Indians in Minnesota
of all reservations occupied by them except portions of the
White Earth and Red Lake reservations required to make
allotments, for removing to the White Earth Reservation
all the bands save-those on the Red Lake Reservation, for
making allotments in severalty in the unceded lands, and
for disposing of the ceded lands, placing the net proceeds
at interest and distributing them in severalty at the end
of fifty years. Section 1 required that a census be made
of each tribe, or band for the purpose of ascertaining
whether the proper number of Indians assented to the cession and "of making the allotments and payments" contemplated; and section 3 directed that, following the census, the cession and the removal to the White Earth
Reservation, allotments in severalty be made, as soon as
practicable, to the Red Lake Chippewas in the Red Lake
Reservation, and to the others in tbe White Earth Reservation, "in conformity with" the general allotment act
of February 8, 1887, c. 119, 24 Stat. 388, subject to a proviso that any Indian living on any of the ceded reservations
might, in his discretion, take his allotment therein instead
of moving to the White Earth Reservation.
The general allotment act of 1887, in conformity with
which the Chippewa allotments were to be made, after
VOL. ccxxxIx-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

authorizing a survey of the reservation to be allotted,
provided for an allotment in severalty of a designated
area "to any Indian located thereon," and then directed
that all allotments "be selected by the Indians, heads of
families selecting for their minor children" and the agents
selecting for orphan children, and that "if any one entitled
to an allotment shall fail to make a selection within four
., the Secretary of the Interior may diyears .
rect a selection for such Indian" to be made by an
agent.
We think the terms of the general act contemplated
only selections on the part of living Indians acting for
themselves or through designated representatives. The
express provision for selections in behalf of children and
of Indians failing to select for themselves and the absence
of any provision in respect of Indians dying without
selections are persuasive that no selections in the right of
the latter were to be made. In other words, as to them
there was no displacement of the usual rule that the incidents of tribal membership, like the membership itself,
are terminated by death. See Gritts v. Fisher, 224 U. S.
640, 642; Oakes v. United States, 172 Fed. Rep. 305, 307.
It is upon this view that the execution of the general act
and other similar acts has proceeded. 30 Land Dec. 532;
40 Id. 9; 42 Id. 446, 582; Woodbury v. United States, 170
Fed. Rep. 302.
As calling for a different construction of the Nelson Act
the defendant relies upon the provision for a census of the
Indians and upon the report of the negotiations with them
resulting in the cession contemplated by the act, the contentions advanced being that the provision for a census
makes it clear that the census when completed was to be
accepted as finally determining who were to receive allotments, and that the report of the negotiations shows that
the Indians gave their assent to the cession in the belief
that the rightto select and receive an allotment would not

LA ROQUE v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be terminated by death but would pass to the heirs of the
deceased. We are unable to assent to either contention.
While the act directed that a census be made "'for the
purpose," among others, "of making the allotments"
contemplated, we think this meant nothing more than
that the census should serve as a preliminary guide in
ascertaining to whom allotments should be made. There
was no direction that it be treated as controlling-or
that, allotments be made to all whose names appeared
therein or only to them. The work of allotment could not
be undertaken at once. The cession was not to be effective
until approved by the President. Many of the Indians
were to be removed ,from the ceded reservations to the
White Earth Reservation, and much other work was required to prepare the way. So, it must have been contemplated that many changes would occur in the membership
of the several bands through deaths and births before the
allotments could be made. In Fairbanksv. United States,
223 U. S. 215, we held that children born into the bands
after the census were entitled to allotments, although
not listed in it, and we perceive no reason for giving the
census any greater effect in this case than was given to it
in that. No doubt it is to be accepted as an authorized
listing of the members of the several bands who were,
living when it was made, but it has no other bearing in
cases like the present. The contention that the Indians
understood that the right to select and receive an allotment would not be terminated by death but would pass
to the heirs of the deceased is based upon excerpts from
addresses made to the Indians by the Commissioners representing the Government in the negotiations. Even when
read apart from the context these excerpts afford little
basis for the contention and when read with the context
they make against the contention rather than for it. The
real effect of what was said was that on the death of any
Indian "after receiving an allotment the land would pass

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

to his heirs, which is quite consistent with our construction of the act.
The suit was brought between six and seven years after
the date of the trust patent, and because of this it is urged
that the suit was barred by ยง 8 of the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 561, 26 Stat. 1099 (see also c. 559, p. 1093), which proto vacate
vides that "suits by the United States
and annul patents hereafter issued shall only be brought
within six years after the date of the issuance of such
patents." This contention must be overruled upon the
authority of Northern Pacific Ry. v. United States, 227
U. S. 355, 367, where it was held that this section is part
of the public land laws and refers to patents issued for
public lands of the United States. This trust patent was
not issued for public lands of the United States but for
reserved Indian lands to which the public land laws had
no application. And it may be well to observe in passing
that the Circuit Court of Appeals directed that there be
embodied in the decree a provision that the Government
holds the lands in the same way it held them before the
patent was issued, that is, as reserved Indian lands.
Another objection to the suit is predicated upon the
act of April 23, 1904, c. 1489, 33 Stat. 297, limiting and
defining the authority of the Secretary of the Interior
to correct mistakes in and to cancel trust patents for
Indian allotments, but of this it is enough to say that we
concur in the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals that
this section, which makes no reference to the courts, discloses no purpose to restrict or define their jurisdiction or
powers in suits such as this.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part iii the consideration or decision of this case.

