ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. v. BURNETTE.
239 U. S.

199

Opinion of the Court.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD v.
BURNETTE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF-NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 66. Argued November 9, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
It would be a miscarriage of justice to recover upon a statute not
governing the case, in a suit which the statute itself declared commenced too late to be maintained.
A right may be waived or lost by failure to assert it at a proper time.
Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S. 145.
Even though not pleaded, if defendant insists on the point that an
action based on the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 has been
brought too late.and the answer admits that fact, the action cannot
be maintained.
Congress within its sphere is a paramount authority over the States
and courts cannot, where the will of Congress plainly appears, allow
substantive rights to be impaired under the name of procedure.
163 N. Car. 186, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
personal injuries based on the Employers' Liability Act
of 1908, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Mr. F. S. Spruill
and Mr. John Spalding Flannery were on th? brief, for
plaintiff in error.

There was no appearance or brief for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff (defendant in error), was a fireman employed by the defendant. On October 5, 1907, he was injured by its negligence while working upon a train running
from South Carolina to North Carolina. He brought this

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

action on January 7, 1910, and judgment was ordered
for a certain sum by the Supreme Court of the State.
163 N. Car. 186. The Supreme Court assumed that the
case was governed by the Employers' Liability Act of
April 22, 1908, c. 149; 35 Stat. 65. Two errors are assigned. First, in holding that statute applicable to the
cause of action, and second, in allowing a recovery under
it in an action begun more than two years after the cause
of action accrued. Id., ยง 6, p. 68. The case was not argued in this court on behalf of the defendant in error,
but we gather from the record and the opinion that while,
at the trial, the Railroad, upon issues not before us, insisted that the Federal statute was not applicable, the
contrary was admitted before the Supreme Court; so that
although the admission seems to have been made with the
second question only in view, the first point would appear
not to have been drawn to the attention of either court
and there was no discussion of how the case would stand
apart from the act. The second objection was met by
deciding that the limitation of two years imposed by ยง 6
could not be relied upon for want of a plea setting it up.
It would seem a miscarriage of justice if the plaintiff
should recover upon a statute that did not govern the case,
in a suit that the same act declared too late to be maintained. A right may be waived or lost by a failure to
assert it at the proper time, Burnet v. Desmornes, 226
U. S. 145, but when a party has meant to insist on all the
rights it might have, such a result would be unusual and
extreme. The record shows a case to which the Act of
1908 did not apply, Winfree v. Northern Pacific Ry., 227
U. S. 296, and which the earlier Act of 1906 probably could
not affect. Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 489.
It also shows that the action was brought too late, and
that the defendant insisted upon that point, although it
had not pleaded what was apparent on the allegations
of the declaration and the admissions of the answer.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE It. R. v. BURNETTE.
239 U. S.

201

Opinion of the Court.

In dealing with the enactments of a paramount authority, such as Congress is, within its sphere, over the States,
we are not to be curious in nomenclature if Congress has
made its will plain, nor to allow substantive rights to be
impaired under the name of procedure. Central Vermont
Railway v. White, 238 U. S. 507, 511. But irrespective of
the fact that the act of Congress is paramount, when a
law that is relied on as a source of an obligation in tort,
sets a limit to the existence of what it creates, other jurisdictions naturally have been disinclined to press the obligation farther. Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451, 454. The
Harrisburg, 119 U. S. 199. There may be special reasons
for regarding such obligations imposed upon railroads by
the statutes of the United States as so limited. Phillips
v. Grand Trunk Western Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 662, 667. At,
all events the act of Congress creates the only obligation
that has existed since its enactment in a case like this,
whatever similar ones formerly may have been found
under local law emanating from a different source. Winfree v. Northern Pacific Ry., 227 U. S. 296, 302. If it be
available in a state court to found a right, and the record
shows a lapse of time after which the act says that no
action shall be maintained, the action must fail in the
courts of a State as in those of the United States.
The ground that we have stated is sufficient for the
reversal of the judgment so far as it proceeds upon the
Act of 1908, and therefore we are relieved from the necessity of deciding whether the record is in such shape that
the even more fundamental objection to the application
of the Act cannot be considered by this court.
Judgment reversed.

