PROVO BENCH CANAL CO. v. TANNER.
239 U. S.

323

Opinion of the Court.

"Provided, that nothing herein shall be so construed as
to prevent the Board of Selectmen or the Town of Essex
from subjecting the location and operation of the company's lines to reasonable regulations." With this modification, it is affirmed. The costs will be charged to
appellant.
Modified and affirmed.

PROVO BENCH CANAL AND IRRIGATION
COMPANY v. TANNER,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 72. Argued November 11, 1915.-Decided December 6, 1915.
In eminent domain proceedings, an award of one dollar for property
taken for an easement does not deprive the owner of his property
without due process of law if the state court recognized the right
to recover for any substantial damage, but found as matter of fact
that no damage whatever had been shown.

40 Utah, 105, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity under the due

process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of a
statute of Utah, and judgment of the Supreme Court of
that State, regarding rights to flow waters and construct
irrigation ditches, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. W. N. Whitecotton for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. CharlesS. Varian for defendant in error submitted.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS,
by direction of the court.
Plaintiffs in error, having acquired easements and rights
of way over certain lands in the State of Utah, con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

structed thereon connecting canals to convey water intended for irrigation purposes. Relying upon the provisions of a statute of that State (Compiled Laws, 1907,
ยง 1288 x 22) copied in the margin,1 the validity of which
is not contested (Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361), defendant
in error, Tanner, instituted the original proceeding, praying for permission to increase the carrying capacity of
the canals, that the character of the enlargement and
resulting damages be determined, and that, upon payment of the sum assessed and completion of the enlargement, he 'be decreed the right to flow water therein.
Answers were filed, proof taken, and, the cause having
been duly heard by the court without a jury, a decree was
entered granting the relief prayed under carefully specified
conditions, among them being a perpetual bond to protect
against future injuries. Each of the owners was awarded
one dollar as damages. Upon appeal the action of the
trial court was approved by the Supreme Court. 40
Utah, 105.
Counsel for plaintiffs in error asserts here that, "after
all, the whole question is, was there a taking of the property of the canal owners;" and, answering this in the
affirmative, he maintains that the judgment below deprives them thereof without due process of law. But the
state court, expressly recognizing the right of recovery for
1When any person, corporation, or association desires to convey
water for irrigation or for any other beneficial purpose, and there is
a canal or ditch already constructed that can be enlarged to convey the
required quantity of water, then such person, corporation, or association, or the owner or owners of the land through which a new canal or
ditch would have to be constructed to convey the quantity of water
necessary, shall have the right to enlarge said canal or ditch already
constructed, by compensating the owner of the canal or ditch to be
enlarged, for the damage, if any, caused by said enlargement; provided,
that said enlargement shall be done at any time from the 1st day
of October to the 1st day of March, or at any other time that may be
agreed upon with the owner of said canal or ditch.

WEBER v. FREED.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

any substantial damage, found, as matter of fact, that
none had been shown by the proof and consequently only
a nominal sum could be recovered. It declared that
"nothing is made to appear upon which a finding or judgment for substantial damage can rest"-" there is no
direct evidence upon this point whatever," and cited
Chicago, Burl. & Quincy R. R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226,
in support of the award.
The record discloses no error which we can consider
(Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 89), and the
judgment is
Affirmed.

WEBER v. FREED, DEPUTY COLLECTOR OF
UNITED STATES CUSTOMS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW. JERSEY.
No. 644. Argued December 1, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.
That the power of Congress over foreign commerce is complete has been
so thoroughly settled by former decisions of this court, that to question it is frivolous.
Congress has power to prohibit importation of foreign articles from
abroad, including pictorial representations of prize fights designed
for public exhibition; and so held that the act of July 31, 1912, prohibiting such importation is not unconstitutional.
The fact that exhibitions of pictures are under state, and not Federal,
control does not affect the power of Congress to prohibit importation
of articles from foreign countries to be exhibited.
The motive of Congress in exerting its plenary power cannot be considered for the purpose of refusing to give effect to such power
when exercised.
224 Fed. Rep. 355.

