OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

558; Hunt v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 336;
Bittermann v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 207 U. S. 205,
225; Berryman v. Whitman College, 222 U. S. 334, 345.
The District Court erred in testing the jurisdiction by
the amount that it would cost defendant to remove its
poles and wires where they conflict or interfere with those
of complainant, and replacing them in such a position as
to avoid the interference. Complainant sets up a right to
maintain and operate its plant and conduct its business
free from wrongful interference by defendant. This right
is alleged to be of a value in excess of the jurisdictional
amount, and at the hearing no question seems to have
been made but that it has such value. The relief sought is
the protection of that right, now and in the future, and the
value of that protection is determinative of the jurisdiction.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordancewith this opinion.

MORRIS CANAL AND BANKING COMPANY v.
BAIRD.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 1. Argued October 21, 1915.-Decided November 21, 1915.
A transfer, even though under legislative authority, of all the property
and franchises of one corporation to another does not vest the latter
with freedom from exercise of governmental power which the former
enjoyed under its charter. Rochester Railway v. Rochester, 205 U. S.
236.
An express provision in a legislative charter limiting an exemption
from taxation to such property as is possessed, occupied, and used
by the company for the actual and necessary purposes for which it

was chartered must be strictly construed under the settled rule that
transfers do not carry the exemption even though, as in this case,

MORRIS CANAL CO. v. BAIRD.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the State has reserved rights of purchase and eventual ownership
of the property.
After property has been transferred by one corporation to another
it is not possessed, occupied and used by the former, and an exemption from taxation during such possession, occupation and use no
longer applies.
Taxes imposed by the State of New Jersey upon the lessee of the property of the Morris Canal and Banking Company held not to be
unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of the contract of
exemption contained in the charter of the company granted in 1824,
that company having leased all of its property to the lessee and the
exemption not being transferable and only applicable to property
possessed, occupied and used by the canal company; and further hek!
that the general rule was not affected in this case by the fact that
the State reserved the power to purchase the property of the canal
company within a specified period and that within a further specified
period such property should become the property of the State.
76 N. J. Law, 627, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the contract clause Pnd the construction of a taxing statute
of New Jersey and the validity of a tax levied thereunder,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Gilbert Collins for plaintiffs in error:
The contract of exemption from taxation was not a
bounty conferred on any particular company, nor an
agreement made merely in view of presumptive benefits to
the people. It was a contract of exemption of certain
specific property, for an adequate consideration, to wit,
the conveyance of the property itself to the State, possession to be taken at the end of a term of years, the
owner meantime to devote the property to public use on

terms controlled by the State, and for other substantial
considerations. Barnett v. Johnson, 15 N. J. Eq. 481.
The exemption from taxation was limited to the company's property essential to the canal use. State v. Betts,
24 N. J. L. 555; Morris Canal v. Jersey City, 12 N. J.
Eq. 227; Morris Canal v. Haight, 35 N. J. L. 178; Morris

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

239 U. S.

Canal v. Love, 37 N. J. L. 60; Lehigh Valley R. R. v.
Newark, 44 N. J. L. 323; Morris Canalv. Cleaver, 46 N. J.
L. 467. See also New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164.
This case presents not only a full and adequate consideration, but has the further support that the property
exempted is exempted because it is public property.
New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S.
654; Ches. & Ohio R. R. v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 726; Central
R. R. of Georgia v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 670; Powers v. Detroit
&c. Ry., 201 U. S. 543; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S.
129; Humphrey v. Pegues, 83 U. S. 244; Philadelphia &
Wilmington R. R. v. Maryland, 10 How. 377; Green County
v. Conness, 109 U. S. 104.
Cases in which the exemption was denied in the hands
of the assignee company fall within four classes'none of
which included the case at bar:
Where the mortgage, 'lease or transfer was made without express statutory authority. Memphis R. R. v. Com,
missioners, 112 U. S. 609; Ches. & Ohio R. R. v. Miller,
114 U. S. 176; Pickard v. East Tenn. R. R., 130 U. S. 637;
Mercantile Bank v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 161; East Tenn.
R. R. v. Camden Co., 102 U. S. 273; Wilson v. Gaines, 103
U. S. 417; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Palmer, 109 U. S. 244.
Where the corporation claiming the exemption was not
created until a constitutional bar to exemption had been
interposed. Trask v. MeGuire, 18 Wall. 391; Keokuk &c.
R. R. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 304; Atlantic &c, R. R. v.
Georgia, 98 U. S. 359; St. Louis &c. R. R. v. Berry, 113
U. S. 465; Memphis &c. R. R. v. Berry, 112 U. S. 609;
Minn. & St. Louis Ry. v. Gardner, 177 U. S. 332; Shields
v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 321; Maine Cent. R. R. v. Maine, 96
U. S. 509; Yazoo & Miss. Valley Ry. v. Adams, 180 U. S.
1) 18; New York v. Cook, 148 U. S. 406.
Where from surrounding words and circumstances it is
apparent that the legislature did not intend the exemption
to pass to the successor. Phanix FireIns. Co. v. Johnson,

MORRIS CANAL CO. v. BAIRD.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

161 U. S. 174; Chicago &c. R. R. v. Missouri, 122 U. S.
561; Wilmington &c. R. R. v. Allsbrook, 146 U. S. 279;
Ches. & Ohio R. R. v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176; East Tenn.
R. R. v. Camden Co., 102 U. S. 273; Wilson v. Gaines, 103
U. S. ,417; Citizens St. Ry. v. Memphis, 53 Fed. Rep. 715;
Minot v. P. W. & B. R. R., 18 Wall. 206; Bancroft v.
Wicomico Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 874, aff'd 135 Fed. Rep. 977.
Where the intent to pass the immunity was not sufficiently clearly expressed. Couington & Lexington R. R. v.
Sanford, 164 U. S. 578; Norfolk & W. R. R. v. Pendleton,
150 U. S. 673; People's Gas Light Co. v. Chicago, 194
U. S. 1; St. Louis & San Fran. Ry. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 656;
Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217.
The reluctance of the courts to enforce contracts of
exemption because relieving property from the common
burden which public policy requires shall be equally borne,
has no just application to the case now before the court.
Minot v. P. W. & B. R. R., 18 Wall. 206, 225.
The exemption from taxation passed to the lessee.
Boston & Lowell R. R. v. Salem & Lowell R. R., 68 Massachusetts, 1, 35.
This contract right should not be denied to the transferee, except on the theory that it is a bounty or personal
immunity which the State has given to the grantor.
Mr. Robert H. McCarter, with whom Mr. Edmund Wilson, Attorney General of the State of New Jersey, was on
the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTicE McR.YNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey sustained a tax for the year 1906 levied by the State Board of
Assessors, under the railroad and canal tax act of 1884
and supplements thereto, upon the canal and appurtenances leased by the Morris Canal and .Banking ComVOL. ccxxxIx-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

pany to the Lehigh Valley Railroad. .76 N. J. L. 627.
Plaintiffs in error claim the charter of the lessor company
exempts the assessed property from taxation, and to subject it to the charge in question would impair the obligation of that contract contrary to the provisions of Article I,
ยง 10, Federal Constitution.
The Morris Canal and Banking Company was incorporated by a special act of the New Jersey Legislature,
passed December 31, 1824,1 for the purpose of constructing
a canal across the State. This statute expressly declared
that "said canal when completed shall forever thereafter
be esteemed a public highway," gave the State the right
to purchase it after ninety-nine years at a fair valuation,
and specified that it should become the sole property of
the State after one hundred and forty-nine years; but no
power was granted the corporation either to sell or lease
its works. Section 4 provides:
"No state, county, township, or other public assessments, taxes or charges whatsoever shall at any time be
laid or imposed upon the said canal company, or upon the
stocks and estates which may become vested in them under
this act; but this exemption shall not extend to any other
estate or property of the company than such as is possessed, occupied and used by the said company for the
actual and necessary purposes of said canal navigation
under this act, according to the true intent and meaning
thereof;
"
An act approved March 14, 1871 (Acts, p. 444), amended
the original charter as follows:
"It shall and may be lawful for the Morris Canal and
Banking Company, by and with the consent of a majority
in interest of the stockholders of the said company, expressed in writing and duly authenticated by affidavit,
'An act to incorporate a company to form an artificial navigation
between the Passaic and Delaware Rivers. Acts N. J. 1824, 158-160.

MORRIS CANAL CO. v. BAIRD.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and filed in the office of the secretary of state, to lease the
canal of said company, or any part thereof, with all or
any of its boats, property, works, appurtenances and
franchises, to any person or persons, or corporation, either
perpetually or for such shorter time, and upon such rents
and agreements, as may be agreed upon between the said
contracting parties, and it shall be lawful for the lessee or
lessees in said lease to use and enjoy the said property
and franchises so demised, for the term in said lease mentioned."
By indenture dated May 4, 1871, the canal company
undertook to let and demise to the Lehigh Valley Railroad
its entire canal and navigation works, together with all
corporate franchises, rights and privileges, other than that
of being a corporation, to have and to hold unto the lessee,
its successors and assigns, perpetually. (The words. rights
and privileges are not contained in the amendment to
the charter.) Likewise it bargained and sold to the railroad all of its cars, trucks, boats, etc., and movable property of every kind and description except certain records
and specified articles.
Admitting that the provision in the charter of 1824
granting exemption from taxation constituted a valid
contract which subsequent legislation could not impair,
the State maintains that it ceased to apply after the lease
and sale to the railroad, and the property in question then
became subject to assessment.
The doctrine essential to the solution of the question in
issue was lucidly stated and the pertinent authorities
cited in Rochester Railway v. Rochester, 205 U. S. 236,
Mr. Justice Moody delivering the opinion. Speaking in
respect of the transfer of an immunity from the exercise
of governmental power granted by contract, he declared
(p. 247):
"Although the obligations of such a contract are protected by the Federal Constitution from impairment by

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

the State, the 'contract itself is not property which, as
such, can be transferred by the owner to another, because,
being personal to him with whom it was made, it is incapable of assignment. The person with whom the contract is made by the State may continue to enjoy its benefits unmolested as long as he chooses, but there his rights
end, and he cannot by any form of conveyance transmit
the contract or its benefits, to a successor. . . . But
the State, by virtue of the same power which created the
original contract of exemption, may either by the same
law, or by subsequent laws, authorize or direct the transfer of the exemption to a successor in title. In that case
the exemption is taken not by reason of the inherent right
of the original holder to assign it, but by the action of the
State in authorizing or directing its transfer. As in determining whether a contract of exemption from a governmental power was granted, so in determining whether its
transfer to another was authorized or directed every
doubt is resolved in favor of the continuance of the governmental power and clear and unmistakable evidence of the
intent to part with it is required."
And, after a review of former opinions, the conclusion
was reached that a transfer, under legislative authority,
of "the estate, property; rights, privileges and franchises"
of one corporation to another did not vest in the latter the
freedom from exercise of Lovernmental power which the
former enjoyed under its charter.
The results in Wright v. Centralof GeorgiaRy., 236 U. S.
674, and Wright v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 236
U. S. 687, 690, were based upon the original charters,
which were interpreted as contemplating and permitting
subsequent transfers without subjecting the fee to taxation. Neither of these cases modifies the principles announced and applied in the opinion quoted from above--:
it is referred to with approval in the latter of them.
By express terms the charter of the Morris Canal and

MORRIS CANAL CO. v. BAIRD.

239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Banking Company limited the exemption from taxation
to such property "as is possessed, occupied and used by
the said company for the actual and necessary purposes
of said canal navigation." This language must be strictly
construed under the settled rule, notwithstanding the
rights of purchase and ownership secured by the State,
the supposed value of which, it is claimed, was so unusual
that a more liberal interpretation should be adopted.
After transfer to the railroad the assessed property was not
possessed, occupied or used by the canal company; and
the exemption, therefore, no longer applied, unless some
legislation plainly authorized or directed its transfer.
Only the act of March 14, 1871, can be relied upon to
*show such authorization or direction. But this merely
permitted the lease of "the canal of said company, or any
part thereof, with all or any of its boats, property, works,
appurtenances and franchises;" and, as clearly pointed
out in the Rochester Case, supra, an exemption from taxation does not pass under a valid lease or sale of corporate
property together with appurtenances and franchises.
We find no error in the judgment of the court below, and
it is acordingly
Affirmed.

