548

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
CO. v. WRIGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 167. Argued November 30, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
Taking an engine from one State to another, although only for repairs,
is an act of interstate commerce. North CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary,
232 U. S. 259.
Where the employ6 sustains injury while the company was engaged
in interstate commerce and he was employed in such commerce, the
responsibility of the company is governed .by the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, which is exclusive and supersedes state laws upon the
same subject, and it is error to submit the case to the jury as if the
state laws were controlling. Wabash R. R. v. Hayes, 234 U. S. 86.
Error which is not prejudicial affords no ground for reversal; and where,
as in this case, it appears that the employer was not prejudiced by
the difference between the Federal Employers' Liability Act which
did control, and the Nebraska Law on that subject which had been
superseded by the Federal Act, the judgment should not be reversed.
No prejudice can result to an employer from instructions being more
favorable in regard to contributory negligence under the state law
than if they had been given under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act which controlled, and the giving of instructions under the state
law under such circumstances does not deny defendant a Federal right.
The evidence in this case as to the existence and constructions of, and
compliance with, rules in regard to speed of engines within the yard
limits justified the submission of the question of negligence to the

jury.
96 Nebraska, 87, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment under the Employers' Liability Act, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. E. P. Holmes, with whom Mr. Paul E. Walker was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. George W. Berge, with whom Mr. Halleck F. Rose
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND RY. v. WRIGHT.
239 U. S.

549

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action against a railroad company by personal representatives to recover for the death of their
intestate, an employ6 of the company, resulting from a
collision of two locomotives on the company's railroad at
Lincoln, Nebraska. One of the locomotives was a switch
engine returning to the city from an adjacent transfer
track, and the other a road engine on the way to a distant
repair shop. The former was in charge of a switching crew
and the latter of an engine crew in which the intestate was
the engineer. At the place of the collision the track is in a
deep and curved cut which shortens the view along the
track. The causal negligence set up in the petition included allegations that the defendant negligently failed to
provide a suitable rule regulating the speed and movement
of switch engines through the cut; that the switch engine
was being run through the cut at a negligent, reckless and
dangerous rate of speed and without its engineer having it
under control, and that when the employ~s in charge of it
came within view of the other engine they negligently
jumped to the ground without reversing their engine or
attempting to stop it, notwithstanding it reasonably and
safely could have been stopped in time to prevent the
collision. The answer denied all that was alleged in the
petition and charged the intestate with gross contributory
negligence and an assumption of the risk. The petition
described the road engine as moving from one point to
another in Nebraska, and said nothing about interstate
commerce, but the answer alleged that this engine was
being taken to a point in another State and that the
defendant was engaged and the intestate was employed
in interstate commerce. At the trial the evidence disclosed that the defendant was operating a railroad extending through Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa and other

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

States; that the road engine was on the way from Phillipsburg, Kansas, to Council Bluffs, Iowa; that the train
order under which the intestate was proceeding at the
time read, "Engine 1486 will run extra Fairbury to Albright," both points being in Nebraska, and that when
Albright was reached another order was to be given covering the remainder of the trip. Notwithstanding the allegation in the answer and this evidence, the court submitted the case to the jury as if it were controlled by the
Employers' Liability Act of Nebraska and not by the
act of Congress. The plaintiffs had a verdict and judgment and the latter was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State. 94 Nebraska, 317; 96 Nebraska, 87. The
defendant prosecutes this writ of error.
It is entirely clear that taking the road engine from
Phillipsburg, Kansas, to Council Bluffs, Iowa, was an
act of interstate commerce, and that the intestate, while
participating in that act, was employed in such commerce.
That the engine was not in commercial use but merely
on the way to a repair shop is immaterial. It was being
taken from one State to another and this was the true
test of whether it was moving in interstate commerce.
See North Carolina R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 259.
The courts of the State rested their decision to the contrary upon the train order under which the intestate was
proceeding and upon the decisions in Chicago & Northwestern Ry. v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 236, and
United States v. Rio Grande Western Ry., 174 Fed. Rep.
399. In this they misconceived the meaning of the train
order and the effect of the decisions cited. The order was
given by a division train dispatcher and meant that between the points named therein the engine would have
the status of an extra train, and not that it was going
merely from one of those points to the other. The cases
cited arose under the Safety Appliance Acts of Congress
and what was decided was that those acts were not in-

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND RY. v. WRIGHT.
239 U. S.

551

Opinion of the Court.

tended to penalize a carrier for hauling to an adjacent
and convenient place of repair a car with defective appliances, when the sole purpose of the movement was to
have the defect corrected, and the car was hauled alone
and not in connection with other cars in commercial use.
It was not held or suggested that such a hauling from one
State to another was not a movement in interstate commerce, but only that it was not penalized by those acts.
As the injuries resulting in the intestate's death were
sustained while the company was engaged, and while
he was employed by it, in interstate commerce, the company's responsibility was governed by the Employers'
Liability Act of Congress, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, c. 143, 36
Stat. 291, and as that act is exclusive and supersedes
state laws upon the subject, it was error to submit the
case to the jury as if the state act were controlling. Wabash R. R. v. Hayes, 234 U. S.86, 89, and cases cited.
But error affords no ground for reversal where it is not
prejudicial, and here it is plain that the company was not
prejudiced. While there are several differences between
the state act and the act of Congress, the only difference
having a present bearing is one relating to contributory
negligence. The state act declares that in cases where
the employ6's negligence is slight and that of the employer is gross in comparison, the former's negligence shall
not bar a recovery, but shall operate to diminish the damages proportionally. In other cases contributory negligence remains a bar as at common law. Comp. Stat.,
1907, ยง 2803b; Cobbey's Ann. Stat.. 1911, ยง 10592. The
act of Congress, on the other hand, declares that the employ6's negligence shall not bar a recovery in any case,
but shall operate to diminish the damages proportionally
in all cases, save those of a designated class, of which
this is not one. Thus, it will be seen that the state act is
more favorable to the employer than is the act of Congress. The instructions to the jury followed the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

act and consequently were more favorable to the company than they would have been had they followed the
act of Congress. To illustrate, under the instructions
given a finding that the intestate's injuries were caused
by concurring negligence of the company and himself
and that his negligence was more than slight and the
company's less than gross must have resulted in a verdict
for the company, while under instructions following the
act of Congress such a finding must have resulted in a
verdict for the plaintiffs with the damages proportionally
diminished. Of course, no prejudice could have resulted
to the company from the instructions being more favorable
to it than they should have been under the controlling law.
The company requested a directed verdict in its favor
on the ground that there was no evidence of any negligence
whereon it could be held responsible for the intestate's
death, but the request was denied and the Supreme
Court of the State sustained the ruling. In this it is contended that the company was denied a Federal right,
that is, the right to be shielded from responsibility under
the act of Congress when an essential element of such
responsibility is entirely wanting. See St. Louis, Iron
Mountain & Southern Ry. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S.265,
275, 277; SeaboardAir Line v. Padgett, 236 U. S.668, 673.
The collision was on the main track and within the outer
portion of the yard limits at Lincoln. At that point the
track was in a deep and curved cut which made the view
along the track from an engine passing in either direction
comparatively short. The intestate was proceeding to a
distant point under an order which gave his engine the
status of an extra train, and the switching crew were
returniig to the city with their engine after completing
some switching work at an adjacent transfer track. The
switching crew knew the extra was in the yard and that
they might meet it while going through the cut, for the
engineer in that crew testified: "Q. What did he [the fire-

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND RY. v. WRIGHT.
239 U. S.

553

Opinion of the Court.

man] say? A. He says: 'Here they are,' or 'there they
are,' or something like that. Q. You knew who 'they'
was, what 'they' referred to, you knew it was this extra?
A. I thought it was. Q. Yes, you was expecting it?
A. I was expecting it in a way. Yes, I was told to look
out for it, which we were doing. Q. You knew it was
likely to come around that curve? A. Yes, sir." And yet
the switching crew were proceeding through the cut at
so high a speed that they were unable to stop their engine
and avoid a collision notwithstanding the extra was
420 feet away when it came within view and was brought
practically to a stop within 50 feet. Among the company's rules were the following: "All except first class
trains will approach, enter and pass through the following
named yards [among them being the yard at Lincoln]
under full control, expecting to find the main track occupied or obstructed." "Yard limits will be indicated by
yard limit boards. Within these yard limits engines
may occupy main tracks, protecting themselves against
overdue trains. Extra trains must protect themselves
within yard limits." The intestate's engine was neither
a first class nor an overdue train, but, as before stated,
had the status of an extra train. The company took the
position that the rules placed upon the intestate the entire
burden of taking the requisite precautions to avoid a
collision with the switch engine at any place within the
yard limits, whether in the cut or elsewhere, and therefore that no negligence could be imputed to the company
or the switching crew in respect of the speed or control of
the switch engine. This position was pointedly illustrated
by the foreman of the switching crew, who testified:
"Q. But you went on the theory and assumed that everything had to get out of the way for you except this passenger [a first class train soon to pass through the cut]?
A. Yes, sir. Q. Although you knew the extra was in the
yards? A. Yes, sir. Q. And you claim it under that rule?

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

A. Yes, sir. . . . Q. You ought to run under control
though in the yard limits? A. Why, I don't see why?
Q. How? A. Other trains are supposed to look out for
us. . . . Q. What is the rule about switch engines
running under control in the yard limits? A. There is
not any. Q. How? A. There is no rule." And that position was also illustrated by the division train master, who
stated that "switch engines had the right over all except
first class trains in the yards and other trains would have
to look out for them," and further testified:" Q. When you
say you examine men for switch engines do you use these
rules? A. Yes and the time tables. Q. You tell switch
engine men that they have a right to run twenty-five
miles an hour in the yards? A. Yes, sir. Q. You tell them
that? A. If they want to. I don't tell them anything
about running. Q. How is that? A. I don't tell them
anything about how fast they shall run or how slow.
Q. You understand of course that they can at any time
run their engines negligently? A. I understand that, yes.
Q. You don't tell them to be careful at all when you instruct your switch engine men? A. I tell them to run
their engines according to the rules. Q. But you have
no rules respecting switch engines? A. No, we have instructions sometimes. Q. Have you any rules respecting
switch engines? A. No, sir. . . . Q. What do you
tell your switch engine men about your rules, about
running under control in yard limits? A. Don't tell them
anything, not in regard to running under control in the
yards." The plaintiffs took the position that the rules,
if regarded as devolving upon one in the intestate's situation the measure of responsibility indicated and permitting the switching crew to run their engine through
the cut, not under control, but at high speed, when they
knew that they might meet the other engine, were unreasonable in that respect. Whether the rules were thus
unreasonable was submitted to the jury as a question of

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND RY. v. WRIGHT.
239 U. S.

555

Opinion of the Court.

fact over the company's objection that the question was
one of law for the court. The jury found, as the record
plainly shows, that the rules were unreasonable and that '
the switch engine was negligently run at greater speed
than was reasonable in the circumstances. Dealing with
these subjects, the Supreme Court of the State said (96
Nebraska, 87): "The decedent was running his engine
under full control, within the meaning of the rule of the
company. There was no express rule as to the speed
allowed to the switch engine. Of course, the law requires
that such engine should not be run at an unreasonable
rate of speed under the circumstances. The engineer of
the switch engine must have had a clear view of the approaching engine for at least 420 feet, and it was run at
least 370 feet of this distance before the collision occurred.
It could have been stopped within a distance of 60 feet
unless running at a greater speed than 20 miles an hour,
and, knowing, as the crew of the switch engine did, that
No. 1486 [the extra] was in the yards, to run at a greater
speed than 20 miles an hour in such a locality and under
such circumstances was in itself negligence. In such a
case the court might properly have told the jury that
any rule of the company which permitted such action was
unreasonable, and the giving of an erroneous instruction
as to the reasonableness of the rules would be without
prejudice to the defendant."
While doubting that the rules, rightly understood, permitted the switching crew to proceed at a speed which
obviously endangered the safety of the extra, which they
knew might be coming through the cut on the same track,
we agree that if this was permitted by the rules they were
in that respect unreasonable and void. And in either
case we think it is manifest that there was ample evidence
of negligence whereon the company could be hdld responsible under the act of Congress.
Judgment affirmed.

