OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

Concluding; as We do, that the Circuit Court of Appeals
rightly applied the local statutes as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, its decree is
Affirmed.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY
CONCANNON.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 87.

Argued December 3, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.

The Act of April 28, 1904, c. 1782, 33 Stat. 538, validating conveyances
of land within the lines of the right of way of the Northern Pacific
Railway related only to conveyances theretofore made, and did not
confer on the Railway Company power in the future to dispose of
the right of way nor on others the power to obtain possession of any
part thereof by adverse possession. Northern Pacific Rwy. v. Ely,
197 U. S. 1, distinguished.
While title by adverse possession might have been obtained to portions
of the right of way of the Northern Pacific Railway under the Act of
April 28, 1904, if the adverse possession had ripened into title prior
to the passage of the act, title cannot be obtained thereunder if any
part of the period of adverse possession is subsequent thereto.
While a remedial statute should be construed so as to embrace remedies
which it was intended to afford, its words should not be so extended
as to destroy express limitations and cause it to accomplish purposes
which its text shows it was not intended to reach.
In this case the judgment of the state court cannot be sustained as
resting on a ground independent of the construction of the Federal
statute involved.
While an issue remaining open on the remanding of the case may be
one arising under state law which should primarily be disposed of by
the state court, this court has the ultimate authority to review the
decision on such question to the extent essential to the enforcement
of Federal rights involved.
75 Washington 591, reversed.

NOR. PAC. RY. v. CONCANNON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the construction of acts of
Congress relating to the right of way of the Northern
Pacific Railway, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William H. Hayden for defendants in error submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
As the successor to the rights of the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company the Railway Company, plaintiff in
error, sued to recover a piece of land alleged to be within
the strip 400 feet wide granted by the act of Congress
of July 2, 1864, to the former company as a right of way.
(13 Stat. 365, c. 217.) The asserted right to a reversal
of the decree which awarded the land to the defendant is
based upon an error which it.is asserted the court committed in interpreting an act of Congress. (April 28, 1904,
33 Stat. 538, c. 1782.)
To at once recur to. a previous ruling concerning the
power of the company to dispose of land embraced in
the grant of right of way which undoubtedly led to the
adoption of the act of Congress referred to, and additionally to refer to a decision concerning the significance
of that act rendered before this case arose, will make
clear the question to be decided.
In Northern Pacific Ry. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267,
it became necessary to determine whether title by adverse
possession under a state. law, could be acquired to any
portion of the Railroad's right of way. Applying the
principles announced in Northern Pacific Ry. v. Smith,
171 U. S. 261, it was held that as the Railroad Company
to which the right of way was originally granted was in-

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

capable of conveying any part of the 400 feet strip composing its right of way, it followed that no possession
adverse to the company could confer title, any state law
to the contrary notwithstanding. About a year after
this decision the act to which we have previously referred
was adopted, the title and first section reading as follows,
33 Stat. 538:
"An Act Validating certain conveyances of the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company and the Northern Pacific
Railway Company.
"That all conveyances heretofore made by the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company or by the Northern Pacific
Railway Company, of land forming a part of the right of
way of the Northern Pacific Railroad, granted by the
Government by any Act of Congress, are hereby legalized,
validated, and confirmed: Proidded, That no such conveyance shall have effect to diminish said right of way to a
less width than one hundred feet on each side of the center
of the main track of the railroad as now established and
maintained."
The second and last section made the act operative only
upon acceptance of its terms by the Northern Pacific
Railway Company.
There was presented in Northern Pacific Ry. v. Ely, 197
U. S. 1, the question whether this statute gave validity
to a title by adverse possession to a piece of land outside
of the 200, but within -the 400 feet of the right of way
where the possession relied upon was completed before
the act was adopted and therefore was adequate at that
time under the state law to bar the title of the company.
Although the statute only expressly embraced "conveyances heretofore made," it was decided that in view of itsremedial purposes its provisions were applicable to the case
in hand; that is, it was held that the word conveyance
included also a sufficient adverse pogsession completed
when the act was passed.

NOR. PAC. RY. v. CONCANNON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As the land in controversy in this case is within the 400
but outside the 200 feet, the court below was right in
concluding that it was within the provisions of the act
if they were otherwise applicable. In determining such
applicability as it was found that at the time the act was
passed the possession of the defendant had not existed
for a sufficient length of time to bar the right of the railroad, the court came to consider whether the statute
authorized the taking into view of adverse possession enjoyed after the passage of the act. Answering this inquiry from a consideration not only of the text of the act,
but of the ruling in Northern Pacific Ry. v. Ely, supra,
it was decided that the statute intended to permit the
consideration of such subsequent possession and therefore
the title by possession of the defendant which was inadequate considering the state of things existing at the time
of the passage of the statute, was decided to be valid as
against the Railway Company, in consequence of the effect
given to the possession after the passage of the statute.
75 Washington, 591.
We are of opinion that this interpretation of the act is
inconsistent with its text and was erroneously supposed to
be supported by the ruling in Northern Pacific Ry. v. Ely.
We say it is inconsistent with its text, because in express
terms the validating power which the act exerted was
made applicable only to "all conveyances heretofore
made" and nothing in the context lends itself to the conclusion that Congress contemplated conferring on the
Railway Company unlimited power in the future to dispose of its right of way or to give the right to others to
divest the railroad of the title to such right of way by
future adverse possession. And this meaning of the act
is aptly illustrated by its title since it treats its provisions
as only confirming conveyances theretofore made and not
as conferring power on the Railway Company to make
conveyances of its right of way for the future.
VOL. ccxxxix-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

But the argument is that although this interpretation
may as an original question be well founded, it is not open
to adopt it consistently with the ruling in the Ely Case.
The reasoning is this: The statute, it is said, if literally
interpreted, only relates to conveyances and not to adverse
possession, but as adverse possession complete at the time
of the passage of the act was brought within its scope by
the ruling in the Ely Case, therefore the statute was in that
case interpreted in a broad and not a literal sense. Giving
to the statute this significance, the argument is that it is inconsistent to now hold that the statute does not include all
conveyances and all possession without regard to whether
they were made or perfected before or after the passage
of the act. But this fails to consider that the ruling in the
Ely Case related exclusively to a possession which had
completely ripened at the time of the passage of the act,
and therefore that case was concerned only with the subject with which the statute dealt, that is, rights hitherto
acquired, and which were in a generic sense within the
remedy which the statute was intended to afford-the
curing of infirmities in title which had become complete
prior to the passage of the act. Indeed the opinion in the
Ely Case shows that the reasoning by which it came to
pass that the word conveyances in the statute also embraced title by possession perfected before the passage
of the act was but an application of the familiar rule that
a remedial statute, where it is reasonably possible to do so,
must be interpreted so as to embrace the remedies which
it was obviously intended to afford. The difference then
between that case and this is that which exists between
on the one hand interpreting the words of the statute so as
to cause them to include things which are within its contemplation and on the other hand adopting of an interpretation which would destroy the express limitations of
the statute and cause it to accomplish a purpose which its
text plainly demonstrates it was not intended to reach.

NOR. PAC. RY. v. CONCANNON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is urged that even if it be found that error was committed in interpreting the statute, nevertheless the judgment below should be affirmed because it rests not alone
upon the mistaken interpretation of the statute, but also
upon an independent state ground adequate to sustain it,
that is, a finding that there had been possession adequate
to bar the right of the Railway Company completed before
the adoption of the act. We are of opinion, however,
that there is no ground upon which this proposition can
rest since the court below after finding that the defendant's
possession before .the act had not been for a sufficient time
to bar the right of the Railway Company, and then considering whether an adequate lapse of time would not
result from joining to the possession of the defendant the
prior possession of other persons asserted to be predecessors intitle of the defendant, did not pass upon that
question. On the contrary the court after pointing out
difficulties arising from what it considered to be infirmities
in the proof concerning the nature and character of the
possession of the alleged predecessors and their privity
with the defendant, held that it was unnecessary to solve
such difficulties because under the statute the defendant
could complete the time necessary to bar the right of the
Railway Company by resorting to possession enjoyed by
him after the passage of the act.
Although from these considerations it results that our
duty is to reverse because of the erroneous construction
given to the act of Congress and which was the sole basis
of the decision below, we are of opinion that the order of
reversal should not preclude the right in the court below
to consider and pass upon, in the light of the statute as
correctly construed, the question of adverse possession
asserted to have been completed prior to the passage of the
act which as we have seen the court did not dispose of because of the erroneous opinion which it entertained concerning the meaning of the act Qf Congress and our decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

therefore will leave that question open. The issue thus
left open involves a question arising under the state law
which should be passed upon primarily by the state court.
In saying this however we must not be considered as holding that ultimate authority to review such question when
passed upon would not exist in this court to the extent
that such power to review may be essential to the enforcement of the provisions of the act of Congress in question.
Kansas City Southern Ry. v. Albers Commission Co., 223
U. S. 573, 591; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S.
246, 251; Norfolk & Western Ry. v. West Virginia, 236
U. S. 605, 609-610. See Gaar,Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223
U. S. 468, 470-471. It follows subject to the reservation
stated that the judgment below must be reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. GLENN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 91.

Argued December 6, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.

Although the trial court may have charged the jury that there was a
presumption, rebuttable by proof, that the damage occurred on the
line of the delivering carrier, if the court also excluded testimony
offered by defendant to show that the damage, if any, did not occur
on its line on the ground that a state statute made the delivering
carrier liable, the judgment does not rest on the independent state
ground of defendant's negligence but rests on the validity of the
statute;and if defendant properly saved the Federal question, this
court has jurisdiction to review under ยง 237, Judicial Code.

