OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

SHANKS v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA
WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.

239 U. S.

AND

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 477.

Argued November 30, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

To recover under the Employers' Liability Act, not only must the
carrier be engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the injury,
but also the person injured must be employed by the carrier in such

commerce.
Where a railroad company, which is engaged in both interstate and
intrastate transportation, conducts a machine shop for repairing
locomotives used in such transportation, an employd is not engaged
in interstate commerce while taking down and putting up fixtures in
such machine shop, and cannot, if injured while so doing, maintain
an action under the Employers' Liability Act, even though on other
occasions his employment relates to interstate commerce.
214 N. Y. 413, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment in an action for injuries under the Employers'
Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph A. Shay, with whom Mr. Nash Rockwood
and Mr. I. B. McKelvey were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey, with whom Mr. W. S.
Jenney was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
Shanks sued the Railroad Company for damages resulting from personal injuries suffered through its negligence while he was in its employ, and rested his right to

SHANKS v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

recover upon the Employers' Liability Act of Congress.
His injuries were received in New Jersey and his action
was brought in the Supreme Court of New York. He
prevailed at the trial, but in the Appellate Division the
judgment was reversed with a direction that his complaint
be dismissed without prejudice to any remedy he might
have under the law of New Jersey, and this 4 .as affirmed
by the Court of Appeals, the ground of the appellate rulings being that at the time of the injury he was not employed in interstate commerce. 163 App. Div. 565; 214
N. Y. 413. To obtain a review of the judgment of the
Court of Appeals he sued out this writ of error, which was
directed to the Supreme Court because the record was
then in its possession. See Atherton v. Fowler, 91 U. S.
143; Wurts v. Hoagland, 105 U. S. 701; Sioux Remedy Co.
v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197.
In so far as its words are material here, the Employers'
Liability Act declares that "every common carrier by
railroad while engaging in commerce between any of the
several States . . . shall be liable in damages to any
person suffering injury while he is employed by such
carrier in such commerce," if the injury results in whole or
in part from the negligence of the carrier or of any of its
officers, agents or employ~s. Thus it is essential to a right
of recovery under the act not only that the carrier be
engaged in interstate commerce at the time of the injury
but also that the person suffering the injury be then
employed by the carrier in such commerce. And so it
results where the carrier is also engaged in intrastate commerce or in what is not commerce at all, that one who while
employed therein by the carrier suffers injury through its
negligence, or that of some of its officers, agents or employ~s, must look for redress to the laws of the State
wherein the injury occurs, save where it results from the
violation of some Federal statute, such as the Safety
Appliance Acts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The facts in the present case are these: The Railroad
Company was engaged in both interstate and intrastate
transportation and was conducting an extensive machine
shop for repairing parts of locomotives used in such transportation. While employed in this shop Shanks was injured through the negligence of the company. Usually
his work consisted in repairing certain parts of locomotives, but on the day of the injury he was engaged solely
in taking down and putting into a new location an overhead counter-shaft-a heavy shop fixture--through which
power was communicated to some of the machinery used
in the repair work.
The question for decision is, was Shanks at the time of
the injury employed in interstate commerce within the
meaning of the Employers' Liability Act? What his employment was on other occasions is immaterial, for, as
before indicated, the act refers to the service being rendered when the injury was suffered.
Having in mind the nature and usual course of the
business to which the act relates and the evident purpose
of Congress in adopting the act, we think it speaks of
interstate commerce, not in a technical legal sense, but in a
practical one better suited to the occasion (see Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, 398), and that the true
test of employment in such commerce in the sense intended is, was the employ6 at the time of the injury engaged in interstate transportation or in work. so closely
related to it as to be practically a part of it.
Applying this test, we have held that the requisite
employment in interstate commerce exists where a car
repairer is replacing a drawbar in a car then in use in such
commerce, Walsh v. New York, New Haven & Hartford
R. R., 223 U. S. 1; where a fireman is walking ahead of and
piloting through several switches a locomotive which is to
be attached to an interstate train and to assist in moving
the same up a grade, Norfolk & Western Ry. v. Earnest,

SHANKS v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S. 114; where a workman about to repair a bridge
regularly used in interstate transportation is carrying from
a tool car to the bridge a sack of bolts needed in his work,
Pederson v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 229 U. S. 146; where
a clerk is on his way through a railroad yard to meet an
inbound interstate freight train and to mark the cars so
the switching crew will know what to do with them when
breaking up the train, St. Louis, San Francisco & Texas
Ry. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156; where a fireman, having prepared his engine for a trip in interstate commerce, and
being about to start on his run, is walking across adjacent
tracks on an errand consistent with his duties, North
Carolina R. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248; and where a
brakeman on a train carrying several cars of interstate
and two of intrastate freight is assisting in securely placing
the latter on a side track at an intermediate station to the
end that they may not run back on the main track and
that the train may proceed on its journey with the interstate freight, New York Central R. R. v. Carr, 238 U. S.
260.
Without departing from this test, we also have held
that the requisite employment in interstate commerce
does not exist where a member of a switching crew, whose
general work extends to both interstate and intrastate
traffic, is engaged in hauling a train or drag of cars, all
loaded with intrastate freight, from oie part of a city to
another, Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, and
where an employ6 in a colliery operated by a railroad
company is mining coal intended to be used in the company's locomotives moving in interstate commerce, Del.,
Lack. & West. R. R. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439. In neither
instance could the service indicated be said to be interstate
transportation or so closely related to it as to be practically
a part of it.
Coming to apply the test to the case in hand, it is plain
that Shanks was not employed in interstate transporta-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

tion, or in repairing or keeping in usable condition a
roadbed, bridge, engine, car or other instrument then in
use in such transportation. What he was doing was
altering the location of a fixture in a machine shop. The
connection between the fixture and interstate transportation was remote at best, for the only function of the fixture
was to communicate power to machinery used in repairing parts of engines some of which were used in such
transportation. This, we think, demonstrates that the
work in which Shanks was engaged, like that of the coal
miner in the Yurkonis Case, was too remote from interstate transportation to be practically a part of it, and
therefore that he was not employed in interstate commerce within the meaning of the Employers' Liability
Act.
Judgment affirmed.

INTERSTATE AMUSEMENT COMPANY v.
ALBERT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 69. Argued November 10, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
An exception to the general rule that findings of fact of the state court
in ordinary cases coming to this court under ยง 237, Judicial Code,
other than those arising under the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution, are binding upon this court, is where a Federal right
has been denied as the result of a finding without support in the
evidence.
In this case, the finding of the state court that a foreign corporation
was doing business in the State other than interstate commerce having adequate support in the record, it is binding upon this court.
A State may restrict the right of a foreign corporation to engage in

