NEW YORK v. SAGE.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

to review exists in the highest court of the State, to invoke
the exercise of such discretion in order that upon the refusal to do so there might be no question coicerning the
right to review in this-court. See West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Crovo, 220 U. S. 364; Norfolk Turnpike Co. v. Virginia,
225 U. S. 264; St. Louis San Francisco Ry. v. Seale, 229
U. S. 156.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

CITY OF NEW YORK v. SAGE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCTITT.

No. 34. Argued October 27, 1915.-Decided November 8,1915.
On condemnation proceedings adaptability to the purposes for which
the land could be used most profitably can be considered only so far
as the public would have considered it had the land been offered for
sale in the absence of the exercise of eminent domain.
The owner is entitled to the value of the property taken; that is, what
it fairly may be believed a purchaser in fair market conditions would
have given for it and not what a tribunal at a later date may think
a purchaser would have been wise to give.
The owner is not entitled to added value resulting from the union of
his lot with other lots when the union was the result of the exercise
of eminent domain and would not otherwise have been practicable.
The owner is entitled to rise in value before the taking not caused by
the expectation of that event.
In this case, involving condemnation of property in New .York, held
that although maps showing the parcels to be taken had been filed
and notices posted on the property, one not a resident of New York,
purchasing before the petition was filed could properly remove the
case into the Federal court as the proceeding was not commenced
until after the petition for appointment of commissioners had been
filed.
206 Fed. Rep. 369, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Petitioner.

239 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an award by
commissioners for land taken for the Ashokan reservoir
in New York, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Louis C. White and Mr. W. McM. Speer with
whom Mr. FrankL. Polk was on the brief, for petitioner:
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in' holding this
case within Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 403.
There is absolutely no evidence that the market value
of the property taken had been increased by reason of
availability and adaptability for reservoir purposes.
The state court having held that there can be no recovery for reservoir availability and adaptability of parcels taken by the City of New York for the Ashokan
reservoir considered in connection with other parcels,
the Federal court will accept those decisions as the law of
the State of New York and as binding on it.
The .Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that this
was a controversy between citizens of different States
removable from the State to the United States court.
The judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed and the additional award for availability and adaptability for reservoir purposes disallowed.
SIn support of these contentions see Backus v. Fourth
Street Depot, 169 U. S. 557; Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98
U. S. 403; Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189;
195 Massachusetts, 338; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20; King v. New York, 36 N. Y. 182; Marchantv. Penna.
R. R., 153 U. S. 380; Matter of Qrade Crossing, 17 App.
Div. 54; Matter of Peterson, 94 App. Div. 143; Matter of
Water Supply, 211 N. Y. 174; Matter of Simmons, 58
Misc. (N. Y.) 581; 130 App. Div. 350; 195 N. Y. 573;
McGovern v. New York, 229 U. S. 363; Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Shoemaker v.. United States, 147
U. S. 282; United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S.
53.

NEW YORK v. SAGE.
239 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

Mr. Edward A. Alexander for respondent:
It was not error to refuse to remand this proceeding to
the state court.
The courts had no power to modify the award, without
nullifying the state constitution.
The findings of the Commissioners of Appraisal were
findings of fact, which an appellate court has not jurisdiction to review.
The Commissioners of Appraisal followed the decisions
of thestate court.
The adaptability of land for reservoir or water supply
purposes has been uniformly taken into consideration, as
an element, in estimating its value in a number of welldecided and carefully considered cases, both in the United
States and Great Britain.
The lower courts wexe right in holding this case within
the principle of Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403.
Although there were prior demands, such are unnecessary to be proved, to entitle the owner to the element
of value, due to the adaptability and availability of his
property, as part of a natural reservoir site, and such
value is not in any sense speculative. Chandler-Dunbar
Co. v. United States, 229 U. S. 53; Boston Chamber of
Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189; McGovern v. City of
New York, 229 U. S. 363, and the Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352, do not apply to the facts in the case at
bar.
The fact that the defendant in error did not, or could
not, alone, use his property as a reservoir site, does not
deprive the property of its value, as a portion of a reservoir site.
The fact that the defendant in error was the owner of
only a part of a reservoir site, does not prevent that element of value being considered.
The valuation made by the Commissioners of Appraisal,
was not the value of the property to the condemning

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

party, but the market value of the property in the open
market, between a willing seller and a willing buyer.
If there is any conflict between the decisions of the state
and Federal courts, the Federal courts are not bound, by
state court decisions, on questions of general law, such as
the valuation of real estate.
The entire record shows that the demand for this property for reservoir purposes, increased its market value.
Numerous authorities of the state and Federal courts
support these contentions.
MR. JuSTICE

HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding for the taking of land for the Ashokan reservoir, similar to the one before us in McGovern
v. New York, 229 U. S. 363. After Commissioners were
appointed to ascertain the compensation to be paid the
case .was -removed to the Circuit Court, diverse citizei.ship being alleged. There was a motion to remand which
was overruled and subsequently the Commissioners reported that "the sum of $7,624.45 for land and buildings
and the further. sum of $4,324.45 for reservoir availability and adaptability being a grand total of the sum of
$11,948.90 is the sum ascertained and determined by
us . . . to be paid to the owners of and all persons
interested in said land for the taking of the fee thereof,
designated . . . as Parcel 733." They also recommended the allowance of five per cent. on the above award
for legal fees and expenses, and of $1,372.31 to named
witnesses in specified sums. The report was confirmed by
the Circuit Judge, 190 Fed. Rep. 413, and afterwards by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 206 Fed. Rep. 369. 124
C. C. A. 251.
Upon an inspection of the record it appears to us, as the
language of the Commissioners on its face suggests, that
their report does not mean that the claimant's land had a

NEW YORK v. SAGE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

market value of $11,948.90-that it would have brought
that sum at a fair sale-but that they considered the value
of the reservoir as a whole and allowed what they thought
a fair proportion of the increase, over and above the
market value of the lot, to the owner of the land, subject
to the opinion of the court upon the point of law thus
raised. Upon that point we are of opinion that they were
wrong.
The decisions appear to us to have made the principles
plain. No doubt when this class of questions first arose
it was said in a general way that adaptability to the purposes for which the land could be used most profitably
was to be considered; and that is true. But it is to be
considered only so far as the public would have considered
it if the land had been offered for sale in the absence of
the City's exercise of the power of eminent domain.. The
fact that the most profitable use could be made only in
connection with other land is not conclusive against its
being taken into account, if the union of properties necessary is so practicable that the possibility would affect the
market price. But what the owner is entitled to is the
value of the property taken, and, that means what it
fairly may be believed that a purchaser in fair market
conditions would have given for it in fact-not what a
tribunal at a later date may think a purchaser would have
been wise to give, nor a proportion of the advance due to
its union with other lots. The City is not to be made to
pay for any part of what it has added to the land by thus
uniting it with other lots, if that union would not have
been practicable or have been attempted except by the
intervention of eminent domain. Any rise in value before
the taking, not caused by the expectation of that event,
is to be allowed, but we repeat, it must be a rise in what a
purchaser might be expected to give.
It is said that in this case there was testimony that the
lot was worth more than the total allowed. But the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

explanation of the separation of items by the Commissioners is that they were not prepared to say that the
market value of the lot was $11,948.90, seeing that the
claimant bought it a few days before for $4,500, but that
they thought the additional value gained by the City's
act should be taken into account and shared between the
City and the owner of the land-a proposition to which we
cannot assent. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 451.
McGovern v. New York, 229 U. S. 363, 372.
The motion to remand was made on the ground that
Sage bought after the condemnation proceedings were
commenced and therefore was not entitled to remove the
suit to the Circuit Court. The maps showing the parcels
of real estate to be taken had been filed and notices had
been posted on the property before the conveyance to
Sage, but the petition for the appointment of Commissioners was not filed until after it had been made. We
see no reason to differ from the opinion of the Judge2
below that the proceeding was not commenced at the date
when Sage took.
Decree reversed.

LA ROQUE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 240. Argued October 15, 18, 1915.-Decided November 8, 1915.
The Nelson Act of January 14, 1889, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642, for allotment
to Chippewas of the White Earth Indian Reservation contemplated
only selections on the part of living Indians acting for themselves or
through designated representatives. There was no displacement of
the usual rule that incidents of tribal membership, like the membership itself, are terminated by death.

