OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

MILLER v. STRAHL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 458. Argued November 29, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
Whether a state statute contravenes the constitution of the State does
not concern this court.
When a person engages in a business that is subject to regulation by
the State, such as hotel keeping, he undertakes to fulfil the obligations imposed on such business.
A State may prescribe the duties of hotel-keepers in regard to taking
precautions against fire and to giving notice to guests in case of fire.
Rules of conduct must necessarily be expressed in general terms and
depend upon varying circumstances-and a police statute requiring
keepers of hotelsto give notice to guests in case of fire is not lacking
in due process of law because it does not prescribe fixed rules of
conduct. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373, followed, and International Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, distinguished.
A police statute otherwise valid is not unconstitutional as denying
equal protection of the law because applicable only to hotels having
more than fifty rooms. There is a reasonable basis for classification
of hotels based on number of rooms.
The statute of Nebraska of 1913, requiring keepers of hotels having
over fifty rooms to keep night watchmen to guard against fire and to
awaken guests in case of fire is not unconstitutional as depriving the
keepers of hotels having fifty rooms or more of their property without
due process of law or as denying them equal protection of the law
because the act does not apply to keepers of hotels having less than
fifty rooms; nor for denying due process of law because it does not
pr scribe an exact rule of conduct in case of fire.
97 Nebraska, 820, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Nebraska
relative to duties and liabilities of hotel keepers in case of
fire, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edgar M. Morsman, Jr., for plaintiff in error:
The trial court placed upon the statute an interpretation

MILLER v STRAHL.

239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

which permitted the jury to hold plaintiff in error liable if
they should find from the evidence that either he, as proprietor of the hotel, or any of his employs, had failed to
do all in their power to save defendant in error unharmed
from the fire.
The statute, or this interpretation thereof by the instructions of the court, is so indefinite that it fails to prescribe any fixed rule of conduct by which the inn-keeper
can. guide his actions and, therefore, the taking of life;
liberty or property based upon an alleged violation of such
a statute, to-wit: to do all in one's power, does not constitute due process of law. Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.
634; International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S.
216; State v. Mann, 2 Oregon, 238; Cook v. State, 26 Ind.
App. 278; United States v. Capital Traction Co., 34 App.
D. C. 592; Brown v. State, 137 Wisconsin, 543; Tozer v.
United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917; R. R. Com. v. Grand
Trunk, 100 N. E. Rep. 852; United States v. Reese, 92
U. S. 214; American School v. MeAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94;
Czana v. Board of Medical Sup., 25 App. D. C. 443.
The due process clause of the Federal Constitution prevents not only the taking of life and liberty, but also the
taking of property without due process of law. The statute cannot be held unconstitutional as to the criminal
penalty and be held valid so far as the civil liability is concerned. If the statute through its criminal liability deprives a person of life and liberty without due process of
law, it must necessarily through the civil liability deprive
a person of property without due process of law. The statute, so far as the Federal question involved is concerned,
cannot be constitutional for the purpose of taking one's
property and unconstitutional for the purpose of depriving
one of life and liberty.
Among other things, the statute provides that the
watchman, in case of fire, shall instantly awaken each
guest and inform him of the fire. It further provides that

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

the proprietor, in case of fire, shall give notice thereof to
all guests and inmates thereof at once. In order that the
watchman could awaken defendant in error and notify him
of the fire it wa necessary for the watchman to place
himself in a position of as great danger as was defendant
in error. The* statute thus interpreted required of the
watchman, of the proprietor and of every other employ6,
that they must risk their life in order to awaken, and notify
a guest, and plaintiff in error contends that to deprive a
man of his life and liberty (imprisonment), or of his property (fine or liability in damages), because he fails to risk
his life to save the lives of others, does not:constitute due
process of law. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11;
Gastineau v. Commonwealth of Kentucky, 108 Kentucky,
473.
At common law the inn-keeper owed no duty to protect
his guests from fire. Hare v. Henderson, 43 Upper Canada
Queen's Bench, 571; Clancey v. Barker, 66 C. C. A. 469.
An inn-keeper has never been an insurer of the safety
of his guest and such is the express statement made by
the state court in this case.
Mr. H. C. Brome, with whom Mr. Clinton Brome and
Mr. H. S. Daniel were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action for the recovery of $15,000 on account of injuries sustained by defendant in error while a guest at the
hotel of plaintiff in error, caused by the negligence of the
latter and in violation of a law of the State of Nebraska.
Plaintiff in the case, defendant in error here, alleges that
the plaintiff in error was the proprietor and operator of
what is known as the Millard Hotel, located in Omaha,
Nebraska, and that, as such, he received and entertained

MILLER v. STRAHL.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant in error as a guest for hire; that on the night of
January 22, 1911, and during the morning of January 23,
defendant in error occupied a room on the fourth floor of
the hotel; that the hotel had more than fifty rooms and
was four or more stories high; that between midnight and
dawn, January 23, 1911, a "hostile fire" broke out in the
hotel which, it is alleged, by reason of the negligence of
plaintiff in error, was not properly discovered or controlled
and a portion of the hotel was burned, the halls thereof
filled with smoke and gases, endangering the lives of the
guests and inmates; that plaintiff in error and hisw.ervants
failed and neglected to awaken the guests or give them
notice of the fire, and that by reason thereof defendant
in error was injured by the smoke and gases in attempting
to escape from the hotel.
The specifications of negligence are as follows:
(1) Failure to maintain a competent night watchman;
that the hotel was not properly patrolled, examined or inspected, and that its employ~s negligently failed to be at
their posts of duty to respond to the warnings given
them.
(2) Plaintiff in error did not maintain an efficient or
sufficient system of fire gongs for arousing guests, that he
did not as soon as the fire was discovered ring or cause to
be rung a fire gong on the fourth floor or ring or cause to
be rung a telephone in the room of defendant in error, or
in any other way awaken, arouse, or notify him of the
existence of the fire.
(3) Plaintiff in error did not notify defendant in error
of the location of the stairway leading from the fourth
floor; that the hotel did not have a sufficient number of
stairways; that plaintiff in error failed to operate the elevator, failed to respond to defendant in error's demand to be
removed, and failed to have any light, sign or notice indicating the location of the elevator.
(4) Defendant in error's room was furnished with a

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

rope which plaintiff in error represented could be used for
the purpose of a fire escape, but that it was too small and
insufficient for such purpose, and that proper directions
were not given for its use as a means of escape. Defendant
in error attempted to escape by means of this rope and in
doing so suffered bodily injuries.
There were general denials of these allegations and
averments of negligence on the part of defendant in error
which directly, it is averred, contributed to and caused
his injuries and without which, it is further averred, he
would not have received them. A knowledge of or means
of knowledge of the plans of the hotel and means of ingress
and egress were averred and also the equipment of the
hotel with lights in its halls, notices and fire escapes.
The case was tried to a jury which returned a verdict
for defendant in error in the sum of $6,500, upon which
judgment was entered. It was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State.
The Supreme Court in its opinion says, 97 Nebraska,
p. 823: "It is undisputed that the smell of smoke was detected by one of the employ6s in the hotel about 1:30
A. M., and that later a guest called the attention of the
night clerk to the smell of smoke; that the clerk did nothing
further than to look into the cuspidor to see if paper, or
some like combustible matter, might be burning there.
And this was two hours before the appellee awoke to find
the halls filled with smoke. These facts, together with the
testimony relating to the fire gongs, fire escapes and the
.general conduct of appellant's agents, were all properly
submitted to the jury."
The court decided that there was a common law liability
upon a hotel keeper "to protect his guests from danger
when it is reasonably within his power to do so," and
cited, besides, ยง 3104 of the Revised Statutes of the State,
1913, which reads as follows:
"In hotels or lodging houses containing more than fifty

MILLER v. STRAHL.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rooms, and being four or more stories high, theproprietor
or lessee of each hotel or lodging house shall employ
and keep at least one competent watchman, whose duty
it shall be to keep watch and guard in such hotel or lodging house against fire and to give warning in case a fire
should break out. Such watchman shall be on duty
between the hours of 9 o'clock P. M. and 6 o'clock A. M.,
and in case of fire he shall instantly awaken each guest
and all other persons therein, and inform them of such fire.
A large alarm bell or gong shall be placed on each floor or
story, to be used to alarm the inmates of such hotel or
lodging house in case of fire therein. It shall be the duty
of every proprietor, or keeper of such hotel or lodging
house, in case of fire therein to give notice of same to all
guests and inmates thereof at once and to do all in their
power to save such guests and inmates."
The statute is attacked on the ground that it contravenes
the constitution of the State (with which we have no concern) and the Constitution of the United States. As a
foundation for the contention plaintiff in error asserts
that the trial court, whose action was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State, specifically instructed the
jury that plaintiff in error "and all his employds and the
night watchman at the hotel owed" to defendant in error
"the active duty after the fire had broken out, [italics counsel's] as follows: (a) To notify him (Strahl) of the existence
of the fire so that he might escape unharmed. (b) To do
all in their power to save him (Strahl) from the fire, and
that failure to perform either of these duties made Rome
Miller [plaintiff in error] liable in damages. In other
words, the trial court construed the act of 1883, above
mentioned, so as to make Rome Miller liable for the penalty mentioned in the act (fine, imprisonment and liable
for damages) in the event (1) either he or the watchman
or any employ6 in the hotel failed to do all in their power
to save Emil J. Strahl [guest in the hotel] from the fire

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

free of injury or (2) either the proprietor of the Hotel
(Miller), the watchman, or any other employ6, failed to
awaken and notify Strahl of the existence of the fire."
Plaintiff in error admits that the State of Nebraska
may "withput limit" prescribe "regulations having
reference to the performance of acts and the taking of
precaution prior to the time when a fire breaks out."
But counsel says, "After the fire breaks out we deny that
the legislature, under its police power, can compel the
inn-keeper or the watchman, or any employ4, to do any
act which involves a risk to the life and liberty of such
person." Such limitation of the police power is expressed
in various ways, and that it is not within such power to
compel a watchman or other employ6 to remain in a
burning building "for the purpose of doing all in their
power to save the lives of the guests and for the purpose of
awakening the guests and notifying them of the fire,"
such lives being, it is added, "just as precious and valuable
to the State as is the life of the guest."
We need not pause to consider differences between the
value of lives to the State or whether one life is more
precious than another to the State or of more concern
to the State to preserve than the other. It is quite certain
that he who assumes duties may be required to perform
them. When plaintiff in error engaged in the business
of hotel keeper he undertook its obligations, and we need
not consider whether the statute exacts from h-im and his
employ6s heroic conduct, and not much more need be
said in answer to the contentions of plaintiff in error.
The command of the statute is that in case of a fire
the keepers of hotels must give "notice of the same to all
guests and inmates thereof at once, and to do all in their
power-to save such guests and inmates." Could the statute exact less? It is the dictate of humanity, and gets
nothing from its expression as a legal obligation except
a penalty for its violation, and the facts of the case re-

MILLER v. STRAHIL.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ject any charge that it was enforced to the extent of risk
of the life of anybody or to the injury of anybody.
Plaintiff in error was charged with certain acts of omission, the jury found that he was guilty as charged, and the
finding was sustained by the trial and supreme courts.
We may say without particular review that they were
plain violations of duty required by the statute. There
was an especially significant fact: the fire was detected
by one of the employ~s of the hotel about 1:30 A. M., and
later a guest called the attention of the clerk to the smell
of smoke. The clerk was moved by this warning to look
into a cuspidor, and no further; and this was two hours
before defendant in error awoke to find the halls filled
with smoke. The neglect cannot be magnified by comment. If the act'ion of a clerk under such circumstances
would be a discharge of duty to one guest it would be a,
discharge of duty to many guests; if to men, then to
women and children, and the tragedy which might result
appalls the imagination. But to one or many the duty to
inVestigate when the existence of a fire is indicated or
suspected is clear. It is to be remembered that in the case
at bar there were indications of fire at 1:30 A. M., aid
that at 3:30 defendant in error awoke to find the halls
filled with smoke. He could get no response to his calls
by telephone; he sought the elevator, but it was not
running, and, net knowing the location of the stairway,
he returned to his room and attempted to escape by means
of a rope fire escape. These facts and others referred to by
the court justified the jury in concluding that plaintiff in
error did not do all in his power to save defendant in
error.
It is entirely aside from the questions in the case and the
requirements of the statute to consider the dismays and
perils of an extreme situation, and what then might be
expected of courage or excused to timidity. It was one
of the purposes of the statute to preclude such extremity.
VOL. ccxxxix-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

It requires careful inspection of conditions especially
through the night to detect the existence of fire and
prompt action if it is detected. Had these requirements
been observed in the present case, defendant in error
would not have been permitted to sleep in a burning hotel
for two hours until means of escape were cut off by the
density of the smoke and the absence of the employ6s
of the hotel from their posts-except by a rope, which
proved too weak to sustain his weight.
Plaintiff in error contends further that the statute "is
lacking in due process of law" because "it fails to prescribe
any fixed rule of conduct." The argument is that the
requirement "to do all in one's power" fails to inform a
man of ordinary intelligence what he must or must not
do under given circumstances.
Rules of conduct must necessarily be expressed in general
terms and depend for their application upon circumstances,
and circumstances vary. It may be true, as counsel says,
that "men are differently constituted," some being "abject cowards, and few only are real heroes;" that the
brains of some people work "rapidly and normally in
the face of danger while other people lose all control over
their actions." It is manifest that rules could not be
prescribed to meet these varying qualities. Yet all must
be brought to judgment. And what better test could
be devised than the doing of "all in one's power" as determined by the circumstances?
The case falls, therefore, under the rule' of Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373, and not under the rule of
InternationalHarvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199.
It is objected that as the statute is directed to keepers
of hotels having more than fifty rooms and does not
apply to keepers of hotels having less, it therefore discriminates against the former and deprives them of the
equal protection of the laws. The contention is untenable.
McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Williams v. Arkansas,

EX PARTE UPPERCU.
239 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

217 U.. S. 79; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. v.
McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Quong Wing v. Kirkendall', 223
U. S. 59; Schmidinger v. Chicago, 226 U. S. 5t8; Booth

v. Indiana, 237 U. S. 391.
Judgment affirmed.

EX PARTE UPPERCU, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR MANDAMUS.

No. 14, Original. Argued December 6, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
The right of a litigant to have material evidence from an existing object
does not depend upon having an interest in it, or upon the right or
want of right of the public to examine that object.
Although it may be perfectly proper for a judge to order evidence and
documents in a litigation to be sealed, his order should be modified
so as to admit any of the sealed matter to be produced as evidence
at the instance of any litigant in whose behalf it is material.
The application of a litigant to have a document, which is material
evidence in his cause, produced should not be rejected because the
court in whose custody it is had made an order in a suit to which he
was not a party that the testimony including the desired document
be sealed subject to inspection only of the parties to that action.
Where a judge of a Federal court refuses to allow documents which are
included in evidence in a case in that court which has been ordered to
be sealed to be produced for evidence, mandamus from this court is
the proper remedy to require him to make an order for the production of such document.
THE facts, which involve the right of an interested party

to have documents in the custody of the court produced

as evidence, notwithitanding a previous* order placing
them under seal, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alvin Cushing Cass for petitioner.
Mr. Frank W.

Knowlton, with whom Mr. Cha',es F.

