CHI., ROCK ISLAND RY. v. WHITEAKER1.
239 U. S.

421

Statement of the Case.

grantee of an Indian could avail himself of the Indian's
right, if he had any, to assert the unconstitutionality of
an act of Congress, and it is still more questionable
whether plaintiff in error can be heard to urge the rights
of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations. However, we
may reserve opinion. Those nations are not parties to
this suit and no contract rights of Taylor have been
violated.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. WHITEAKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 111. Submitted December 6, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
In the absence of bad faith, the motive of the plaintiff in making defendants parties who are jointly liable does not affect the right to
remove the case.
Whether the complaint states a cause of action against the resident
defendant joined with a non-resident defendant, is a matter of state
law.
Where, as in this case, the injured plaintiff had under the law of the
State a right of action against a non-resident railroad company and
also against one of its employ6s who is a resident, he has the right to
join them both as defendants; and the non-resident cannot, in the
absence of showing fraud on the part of the plaintiff, remove the case
as to it into the Federal cdurt.
Merely to traverse the plaintiff's allegations upon which the liability of
resident defendant rests or to apply the' epithet fraudulent to the
joinder is not sufficient-the showing of fraud must compel the conclusion that the joinder was so absolutely without reasonable basis
as to be made in bad faith.
252 Missouri, 439, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of the removal
from the state to the Federal court of a case against joint

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argumcnt for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

tort feasors one of which was a railroad company not a
resident, and the other an individual resident, of plaintiff's State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Paul E. Walker and Mr. M. L. Bell for plaintiff in
error:
The question for determination in this case is whether
the removal of the suit to the Federal court should not
have been allowed.
The allegations of fact, which the state court was
obliged to accept as true, entitled the petitioning defendant
to remove the suit to the United States court for the
determination of their truth.
In support of contentions of plaintiff in error see
Ala. & Southern Ry. v. Thompson, 200 U. S. 206; American
Car Co. v. Kettelhake, 236 U. S. 311; Black's Dillon on
Removal, §§ 76, 191; Burlington, C. R. & N. Ry. v. Dunn,
122 U. S. 513; Boatmen's Bank v. Fritzlen, 75 Kansas, 479;
Boatmen's Bank v. Fritzlen, 135 Fed. Rep. 650; S. C., 212
U. S. 364; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S.
184; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. V. Dowell, 229 U. S. 102;
Carson v. Hyatt, 118 U. S. 279; Chesa. & Ohio Ry. v.
McCabe, 213 U. S. 207; Chesa. & Ohio Ry. v. Cockrell,
232 U. S. 146; Dishon v. Cin. & Tex. Pac. Ry., 133 Fed.
Rep. 471; Donovan v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 169 Fed. Rep.
363; Foster, Fed. Prac., 5th ed., § 554; Fritzlen v. Boatmen's Bank, 212 U. S. 364; Gibson v. Chesa. & Ohio Ry.,
215 Fed. Rep. 24; Hinter v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 188 Fed. Rep.
645; Iowa Cent. -Ry. v. Bacon, 236 U. S. 305; Ill. Cent.
R. R. v. Sheegog, 215 U. S. 308; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Outland,
170 S. W. Rep. 48; Kentucky v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1; Little
York Water Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199; Lathrop v. Const.
Co., 215 U. S. 246; Moon, Removal of Causes, § 177;
Rea v. Mirror Co., 73 S. E. Rep. 116; Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S. 430; Sears v. Atch. &c. Ry., 147 S. W.
Rep. 860; Tex. & Pac.Ry. v. Eastern,214 U. S. 153;'Whit-

CHI., ROCK ISLAND RY. v. WHITEAKER.
239 U. S.

423

Opinion of the Court.

comb v. Smithson, 175 U. S. 635; Wecker v. Enameling Co.,
204 U. S. 176.
Mr. Pross T. Cross and Mr. James P. Gilmore for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Action for damages brought against the Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Railway Company and Frank Drake as
defendants in the Circuit Court of Clinton County, State
of Missouri.
The action was for personal injuries inflicted upon
defendant in error by Drake, who was a conductor on a
train of the railway company. It is alleged that Drake,
"while acting in the line of his duties to defendant railway
company, as such conductor and agent and in the course
of his employment, approached plaintiff (who was then
sitting on the top of one of the cars in said train)
and wrongfully and unlawfully" kicked him from the
train while it was running at a high rate of speed, plaintiff
being without fault. The injuries received were detailed,
and judgment was prayed for $15,000.
The railway company filed a petition for removal of the
case to the United States Circuit Court for the western
district of Missouri in which it was alleged that the controversy was between citizens of different States, the
plaintiff in the action being a citizen of Missouri and the
railway company a citizen of Illinois. That the alleged
cause of action was a separable controversy capable of
determination between the plaintiff and the railway company; that Drake was joined as defendant for the sole and
fraudulent purpose of preventing the company from removing the action from the state court, and thereby defeating the jurisdiction of the United States Circuit Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

That plaintiff did not have and could not have had any
cause of action against Drake or upon which to base a
recovery against him, all which was known to plaintiff at
the time of the institution of the action; that Drake was a
man of small means, having but little property from
which a judgment could be recovered, while the railway
company had property more than sufficient to pay the
amount sued for. That any act of negligence on the part
of Drake was an act of the railway company and it was
accordingly responsible and liable for the same.. That
plaintiff, when he instituted the action, had no reasonable
hope, intention or expectation of recovering any judgment
against Drake.
A bond was duly tendered and the petition was accompanied by two affidavits which in effect contradicted
the allegations of the petition as to Drake by showing
that he was not on top of the train and could not have
attempted nor have done the acts charged against him.
The petition for removal was denied and the case subsequently tried to a jury which returned a verdict for
plaintiff in the sum of $8,500, upon which judgment was
entered. It was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State.
There is but one question presented: the correctness of
the ruling upon the petition for removal to the United
States Circuit Court. The railway company assails the
ruling in an elaborate argument and by an industrious
review of cases. In reply recent decisions of this court
need only be considered.
The Supreme Court of the State decided that the petition stated a cause of action against Drake and the railway
company, and whether it did, we said in Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. v. Schwyhart, 227 U. S. 184, was a
matter of state law. We held further that "the motive of
plaintiff, taken by itself, does not affect the right to remove" and that "if there is a joint liability he has an

CHI., ROCK ISLAND RY. i. WHITEAKER.
239 U. S.

425

Opinion of the Court.

absolute right to enforce it, whatever the reason that
makes him wish to assert the right." In that case as in
this theie was a petition for removal on the ground of
fraudulent joinder of defendants to defeat Federal jurisdiction. The cases are substantially parallel.
In Chesa. & Ohio Ry. v. Cockrell, 232 U. S. 146, 152,. it
was decided that it is not enough to assert that there was a
fraudulent joinder of defendants but there must be "a
statement of facts rightly engendering that conclusion,"
and that "merely to traverse the allegations upon which
the liability of the resident defendant is rested or to apply
the epithet 'fraudulent' to the joinder will not suffice: the
showing must be such as compels the conclusion that the
joinder is without right and made in bad faith." And "it
was not such," it was said, "unless it was without any
reasonable basis."
There is nothing more than a traverse of the cause of
action in the present case. The attempt was made to
show that Drake could not-have been guilty as charged because he was elsewhere on the train. The language of the
cited case is again applicable-" As no negligent act'or
omission personal to the railway company was charged
and its liability, like that" of its employ6, "was, in effect,
predicated upon the alleged negligence of the latter, the
showing manifestly went to the merits of the action as an
entirety and not to the joinder; that is to say, it indicated
that the plaintiff's case was ill founded as to all the de'
fendants."
We conclude here as we concluded there that the plaintiff had a right of action under the law of the State and to
insist upon Drake's presence as a real defendant "as upon
that of the railway company." There was no error, therefore, in the ruling of the Supreme Court, and its judgment
is
Affirmed.

