ANDERSON v. FORTY-TWO BROADWAY CO.
239 U. S.

69

Counsel for Parties.

ANDERSON, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. THE FORTY-TWO BROADWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 246. Argued October 18, 1915.-Decided November 8, 1915.
The Corporation Tax of 1909, 36 Stat. 112,-was not an income tax
but an excise upon the conduct of business in a corporate capacity,
the tax being measured by reference to the income in a manner
prescribed by the act itself.
Where a corporation carries a current indebtedness exceeding the
amount of its paid-up capital stock, the interest deductions allowed
in determining the net income subject to the corporation tax is
limited to so much of the indebtedness as does not exceed the
capital.
Congress has power to adopt a basis of distinction between corporations
carrying indebtedness that exceeds the amount of the capital and
those that do not, and the provision in the Corporation Tax Act
limiting the 'amount of interest deductions to so much of the indebtedness as does not exceed the capital stock is not an arbitrary
classification.
The operations of corporations having indebtedness exceeding their
capital stock may be considered as conducted more for the benefit of
the creditors than of the stockholders, and the contributions of the
corporation to the expenses of the Goveinment be admeasured
with this fact in view; and so held as to a corporation having $600
capital stock and $4,750,000 bonded indebtedness.

facts, which involve the construction of the Corporation Tax Act of 1909 and the liability of a realty
corporation to pay the tax imposed thereby, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the petitioner.
THE

Mr. Roger S. Baldwin for the respondent.

7)

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action to recover a tax alleged to have been
erroneously imposed upon respondent for the year 1910
under the Corporation Tax Act of August 5, 1909 (36
Stat. 112, c. 6, ยง 38), and paid under protest, respondents
contending that in ascertaining its net income for the
purposes of the tax the entire amount of the interest paid
by it within the year upon its mortgage indebtedness
ought to have been allowed,. the result of which would
have been to leave no net income to be taxed; whereas
the assessing officer allowed a deduction of interest upon
an amount equal only to the capital stock .of the company.
Respondent is a corporation of the class commonly
known as realty corporations, was organized for the purpose of constructing and renting a building in the city of
New York, and transacts no other business. Its paid-up
capital stock is only $600, while it has a bonded indebtedness of $4,750,000, secured by mortgages upon its real
estate, consisting of a piece of land purchased and a
building constructed upon it substantially with borrowed
money, to secure the repayment of which the bonds and
mortgages were given.
Both the District Court (209 Fed. Rep. 991) and the
Circuit Court of Appeals (213 Fed. Rep. 777) held that
the interest payments upon the entire mortgage indebtedness were deductible from the gross income of the corporation under clause 1 of paragraph 2 of ยง 38 of the
Act, and gave judgment against the Collector for a refund
of the entire tax.
Those portions of the section that are essential to a
determination of the controversy are set forth in the
margin. 1 The District Court, conceding that the provi1 SEc. 38. That every corporation

.

.

having a capital stock represented by shares

.

organized for profit and
. . . shall be subject

to pay annually a special excise tax with respect to the carrying on or

ANDERSON v. FORTY-TWO BROADWAY CO.
239 U.S.

71

Opinion of the Court.

sion of the third clause of the second paragraph., standing
alone, would constitute sufficient authority for the action
of the assessor, nevertheless held that the force of this
provision must be limited, in view of the general purpose
of the section to tax only "net income" (construed to
mean "gross income after deducting all outgo necessarily
incident to the business"), ahd also in view of the first
clause of the second paragraph, which permits of a deduction of "all the ordinary and necessary expenses actually
paid within the year out of income in the maintenance and
operation of its business and properties, including all
charges such as rentals or, franchise payments, required
to be mqde as a condition to the continued use or possession of property." The court therefore held that, in the
case of such a corporation as respondent, the amounts
paid for interest on the mortgages must be deducted in
order to arrive at net income. The Circuit Court of Appeals entertained a similar view, holding that such interest
payments, in the case of a realty corporation, were ordinary and necessary expenses in the maintenance and
operation of the business, and were also charges required
doing business by such corporation . . . equivalent to. one per
centum upon the entire net income over and above five thousand dollars received by it from all sources during such year . . . Provided,
however, That nothing in this section contained shall apply to-[certain
specified classes of organizations, not including realty corporations].
Second. Such net income shall be ascertained by deducting from the
gross amount of the income of such corporation . . . received
within the year from all sources, (first) all the ordinary and necessary
expenses actually paid within the year out of income in the maintenance and operation of its business and properties, including all
charges such as rentals or franchise payments, required to be made
as a condition to the continued use or possession of property;
(third) interest actually paid within the year on its bonded or other
indebtedness to an amount of such bonded and other indebtedness not
exceeding the paid-up capital stock of such corporation, . . . and
in the case of a bank, banking association or trust company, all interest
actually paid by it Within the year on deposits; .

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

to be paid as a condition to the continued use or possession
of its property, within the meaning of sub-division 1; and

that sub-division 3must be limited in its effect to" the usual
corporate indebtedness which is not an ordinary expense
of maintenance, nor a charge, payment of which is a condition of the continued use or possession of property."
With these views we cannot agree. There was error,
as it seems to us, in seeking a theoretically accurate definition of "net income," instead of adopting the meaning
which is so clearly defined in .the Act itself.
As has been repeatedly pointed out by this court in
previous cases (Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107,
145, 150, 151; McCoach v. Minehill Railway, 228 U. S.
295, 306 et seq.; United States v. Whitridge,.231 U. S. 144,
147; Stratton's Independence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399,
414), the act of 1909 was not in any proper sense an income
tax law, nor intended as such, but was an excise upon the
conduct of business in a corporate capacity, the tax being
measured by reference to the income in a manner prescribed by the act itself. And it is very clear, from a reading of ยง 38, that the phrase "entire net income," as used
in its first paragraph, has no other meaning than that
which is particularly set forth in the second paragraph,
which declares, in terms, how "such net income shall be
ascertained." It may well be that mortgage interest may,
under special circumstances, be treated as among the
"ordinary and necessary expenses," or as included among
the charges "required to be made as a condition to the
continued use or possession of property." (See 28 Opin.
A. G. 198.) But interest upon the "bonded or other indebtedness" of the corporation, whether such indebtedness be secured by mortgage or not, comes within the
specific provision of the third clause, whose effect, in our
opinion, is not in this respect limited by anything contained in the first. Congress evidently had in view the
fact that some corporations (other than banks and like

ANDERSON v. FORTY-TWO BROADWAY CO.
239 U. S.

73

Opinion of the Court.

institutions, which, for obvious reasons, are separately
considered), carry a current indebtedness exceeding the
amount of the paid-up capital stock, and with respect to
such corporations intended to limit the interest deduction
to so much of the indebtedness as did not exceed the
capital. Nor can we see the least ground for the insistence
that this results in an arbitrary classification. It is not
necessary to attribute to Congress a purpose to discourage
or impose an extra burden-upon corporations carrying on
their operations with a nominal capital stock, or with an
indebtedness largely exceeding the amount of the capital.
It is more reasonable to say that Congress deemed that
where the indebtedness does exceed the capital it should
no longer be treated as an incident, but that the carrying
of the indebtedness should be considered as a principal
object of the corporate activities, that the operations of
such a corporation are conducted more for the benefit of
the creditors than of the stockholders, and that the contribution of the corporation to the expenses of the Government should be admeasured with this fact in view. There
is no question of the power of Congress to adopt such a
basis of distinction, and, since the line must be drawn
somewhere, it was certainly not arbitrary to draw it at
the precise point where the pecuniary interest of creditors
overbalanced that of stockholders.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded to the District
Court for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

