PROVIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N v. KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

103

Syllabus.

that the original purchaser asked for more than he was
entitled to get. For example, when the plaintiff presented
his books at the station to procure tickets for himself and
wife in exchange for coupons, it could not be said that he

forfeited either of the books, or both, because he asked too
much. He was in no different position when he produced
the books before the conductor, with the tickets which the
Company's agent had given him in exchange for coupons.
He was still the original purchaser, and the provision for
forfeiture when the mileage book is presented by some
one else does not hit the case.
We cannot say that the state court denied a Federal
right when it held the Railway Company strictly to its
own terms.
Judgment affirmed.
PROVIDENT SAVINGS LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 328.

Argued October 20, 21, 1915.-Decided November 15, 1915.

The state court, having placed its decision sustaining a tax on the
ground that the corporation taxed was doing business within the
State, and hence liable under the statute taxing corporations carrying on business, this court need only consider the question of whether
the company was so transacting business as to render it subject to
the taxing power of the State, and need not consider whether another
statute under which the tax might have been levied was unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of the legislative contract under
which the corporation entered the State.
Whether acts done by a corporation at the time to which a tax relates
are of such a nature as to subject it to the local authority on the
ground that such, acts can only be done with the permission of the
State is a Federal question, and this court has authority to review the
decision of the state court in that respect.
The principle that taxation without jurisdiction violates the due

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment applies to the assertion of authority on the part. of the State to exact a license tax
for the privilege of doing acts beyond the sphere of local control.
The continuance of insurance contracts on the lives of residents of the
State already written by the company does not depend upon the
consent of the State, nor has a State the power to treat the mere
continuance of the obligations of existing policies of insurance held
by residents as the transaction of local business justifying the imposition of a privilege tax in the absence of actual conduct of business
within the limits of the State. Equitable Life Assurance Society v.
Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143, distinguished.
The imposition of taxes on premiums collected on policies on residents
of Kentucky in pursuance of the statutes of that- State after the
company has ceased to do business therein, held, in this case, to be
an unconstitutional exercise of power under the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
160 Kentucky, 16, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of Kentucky taxing insurance companies on premiums paid outside the State on policies on lives of residents of the State and the determination of what constitutes doing business within the State by an insurance
company, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Win. Marshall Bullitt, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Lockwood, Mr. Keith L. Bullitt, and Mr. Clarence C. Smith
were on the brief, for. plaintiff in error:
The tax levied by Ky. Stat., § 4226, is a license tax
imposed on foreign insurance companies for the privilege
of doing business within Kentucky. Northwestern Mut.
Life v. James, 138 Kentucky, 48, 152; Southern B. & L.
Assn. v. Norman, 98 Kentucky, 294, 298; Fidelity &
Casualty Co. v. Louisville, 106 Kentucky, 207, 211;
Equitable Life Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143.
Kentucky Stat., § 4226, as construed by the Court of
Appeals, violates the "due process" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because:
The State cannot tax a license or privilege which it

PROVIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N r..KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

105

Argument for Defendant in Error.

does not granit. Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143
U. S. 305; New York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658, 664; Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 164; Louisville Ferry Co.
v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385, 396; Delaware &c. R. R. v.
Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341, 358; Union Transit Co. v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 204; Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S.
392, 400.
The Insurance Company has done nothing, since its
withdrawal, which can be construed as "doing business"
in Kentucky so as to justify the exaction by that State
of a. privilege or license tax. Hunter v. Mutual Reserve
Ins. Co., 218 U. S. 573; State v. Connecticut Mutual, 106
Tennessee, 258.
The receipt by the Insurance Company of premiums
in New York, after its withdrawal from Kentucky, was
not by virtue of any privilege or license of Kentucky; and
hence neither the premiums so received nor the privilege
of receiving them are taxable by Kentucky.
The Company cannot be taxed for the act of the .policy
holders. Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Fairbank v.
United States, 118 U. S. 283, 292; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 578, 591.
The Company's act was in New York, not Kentucky.
Prewitt v. Security Mutual, 119 Kentucky, 321; Bedford v.
Eastern B. & L. Assn., 181 U. S. 227; People v. Miller, 179
N. Y. 227; State v. Conn. Mut. Life, 106 Tennessee, 258.
The bare legal liability to Kentucky policy holders is not
taxable by that State. N. Y. Life v. Deer Lodge County,
231 U. S. 495, 508; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578,
588; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149, 161.
Equitable Life Society v. Pennsylvaia, 238 U. S. 143,
can be distinguished and is relied on.
Mr. John A. Judy, with whom Mr. James Garnett, Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, was on the brief,
for defendant in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

This action is not brought under § 4230a and said section has never been relied upon by the defendant in error.
The State of Kentucky is simply attempting to force
the plaintiff in error to comply with a contract made at
the time the plaintiff in error entered the State of Kentucky.
A State has the absolute right to prescribe the terms
upon which a foreign corporation shall engage in business
in that State. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Ducat v.
Chicago, 10 Wall. 410; Fire Association v. New York, 119
U. S. 110; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; People &c.
v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658; Equitable Life Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143.
After an insurance company has applied for and been
granted permission to insure the lives of citizens of a
State and has agreed to pay the tax for such privilege, it
cannot avoid that tax by attempting to withdraw from
the State and cease writing new business. Equitable Life
Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143.
N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Head, 234 U. S. 149; Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, do not apply to this case.
So far as the State of Kentucky is concerned, the
Provident Savings Life Assurance Society is doing business
in Kentucky as long as it has insured the lives of citizens
of Kentucky under policies written while it was authorized
to do business in Kentucky. Conn. Mut. Life Ins. Co. v.
Spratley, 172 U. S. 603; Mutual Reserve Assn. v. Phelps,
190 U. S. 157.
There is nothing in this case other than the construction
of a Statute of Kentucky, and the highest court of that
State in construing it as it has, has not in any way infringed
upon any rights under the Constitution of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Provident Savings Life Assurance Society, a New
York corporation, transacted business in Kentucky prior

PROVIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N v. KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

107

Opinion of the Court.

to January 1, 1907, and paid the annual license tax of two
per cent. on premiums. Kentucky Statutes, § 4226. This
suit was brought by the Commonwealth to recover the
tax on premiums received in the years 1907 to 1911, inclusive. The Company answered, denying liability upon
the ground that on January 1, 1907, it had entirely ceased
to do business in Kentucky and that all premiums received after that date on policies previously issued in
Kentucky were received in New York.
Prior to the amendments made in the year 1906, § 4226
of the Kentucky Statutes provided as follows:
"SEc. 4226. Every life insurance company, other than
fraternal assessment life insurance companies, not organized under the laws of this State, but doing business
therein, shall on the first day of July in each year, or thirty
days thereafter, return to the Auditor of Public Accounts
for deposit in the Insurance Department, a statement
under oath of all premiums receipted for on the face of the
policy for original insurance and all renewal premiums
received in cash or otherwise in this State, or out of this
State, on business done in this State during the year ending the 30th of June last preceding, or since the last returns were made and shall at the same time pay into the
State Treasury a tax of two dollars upon each one hundred
dollars of said premiums as ascertained."
Kentucky
Statutes, ed. 1903.
This section was amended in 1906 by making the fiscal
year to end on December thirty-first instead of June
thirtieth, by prohibiting deductions for dividends, and by
amplifying the description of premium receipts. (See
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. v. Commonwealth, 128
Kentucky, 174; Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.
v. James, 138 Kentucky, 48.) The amended section was
as follows:
"SEc. 4226. Every life insurance company, other than
fraternal assessment life insurance companies, not or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

ganized under the laws of this State, but doing business
therein, shall, on the first day of January in each year,
or within thirty days thereafter, return to the Auditor
of Public Accounts for deposit in the insurance department a statement under oath of all premiums receipted
for on the face of the policy for original insurance and all
renewal premiums received in cash or otherwise in this
State, or out of this State, on business done in this State
during the year ending the 31st day of December, and no
deductioD shall be made for dividends, or since the last
returns were made, on all premium receipts, which shall
include single premiums, annuity premiums, and premiums
received for renewal, revival or reinstatement of policies,
annual and periodical premiums, dividends applied for
premiums and additions, and all other premium payments
received during the preceding year on all policies which
have been written in, or on, the lives of residents of this
State, or out of this State on business done in this Stat6,
and shall at the same time pay into the State Treasury a
tax of two dollars upon each one hundred dollars of said
premiums as ascertained."
In 1906, the legislature added the following provision,
which is found in § 4230a of the Kentucky Statutes:
"SEC. 4230a. (2.) Any insurance company that has
been authorized to transact business in this State shall
continue to make the reports required herein as long as
it collects any premiums as provided for herein, and shall
pay taxes thereon, even after it has voluntarily ceased to
write insurance in the State or has withdrawn therefrom,
or its license is suspended or revoked by the Insurance
Commissioner, and for failure to make report of the premiums collected and pay the taxes due thereon, shall be
fined five hundred dollars for such offense."
It does not appear that the changes in § 4226 were involved in the present controversy as there was no dispute
as to the amount of the premiums received in the years

PROVIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N v. KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

109

Opinion of the Court.

in question, or as to deductions. But the Company
insisted that § 4230a was invalid under the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution (Art. I, § 10) and also
that the imposition of the tax on premiums received after
the Company had withdrawn from the State was contrary
to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Demurrer to the answer was overruled, the motion of the
defendant that the demurrer relate back to the petition
was sustained, and the petition was dismissed. Judgment
to this effect was reversed by the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky and the cause was remanded with direction
to sustain the demurrer to the answer and for further
procee(iings consistent with the opinion of the appellate
court. Commonwealth v. ProvidentSavings, 155 Kentucky,
197.
The Company then amended its answer, renewing its
constitutional objections. Enlarging the statement of
facts, it averred that on January 1, 1907, it had withdrawn all its agents from Kentucky, had closed all its
offices and had ceased to solicit or write insurance, or
maintain any agent, or collect any premiums, within that
jurisdiction. On January 1, 1911, the Postal Life Insurance Company, a New York corporation, had reinsured
all the business of the defendant. Between .January 1,
1907, and January 1, 1911, all premiums paid to the defendant upon policies theretofore issued in Kentucky
were paid to it at its home office in New York City through
the mail. The Postal Life Insurance Company did not
have at any time an office or agents in Kentucky or transact any business in that State, and all premiums that it
received were paid to it in New York through the mail.
Demurrer to the amended answer was sustained and
judgment was entered in favor of the Commonwealth.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment (Provident
Savings v. Commonwealth, 160 Kentucky, 16) and this
writ of error has been sued out.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The Court of Appeals did not put its decision upon the
provision of § 4230a. This provision, it was said, was
declaratory of the existing law, and the Company's obligation was taken to be defined by § 4226. The tax was a
license tax (Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
James, 138 Kentucky, 48, 52), payable annually, and by
the express terms of the act was payable by the foreign
life insurance corporations 'doing business' within the
State. Both parties agree that it was imposed "for the
privilege of doing business in Kentucky." The State
contends that it is seeking to enforce an agreement which
by implication from the statutory provision the Compaly
must be deemed to have made when it entered the State.
But there is no suggestion that it had ever been decided
prior to this litigation that the described companies were
bound under § 4226 to pay the annual tax irrespective of
the continued transaction of business within the jurisdiction during the years to which the tax related. Nor,
as we understand it, was the statute so construed in the
present case. It is true that the court stated in its opinion
that the Company on being admitted to the State agreed
to pay the tax imposed by § 4226 and that the Company
did not have 'the right and power to revoke this agreement as it attempted to do the first of January, 1907.
But, immediately following this statement, the court proceeded to hold with an explicitness which does not permit
us to doubt the basis of its decision that the Company
was liable to the tax because it continued, despite the
asserted withdrawal, to do business within the State
during the period for which the tax was sought to be collected. If the tax in controversy was demanded by the
State and was enforced upon the ground that it was payable for a privilege which the Company admittedly enjoyed in prior years, it was manifestly immaterial to inquire whether or not the Company was continuing to
transact a local business during the succeeding period. In

PROVIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N v. KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

111

Opinion of the Court.

that aspect, the question would be whether with respect
to the alleged agreement the decision could be deemed
to be one which in reality gave effect to the subsequent
legislation (of 1906) and involved the application of the
contract clause. If, however, the tax now sought to be
imposed was for a privilege exercised during the years to
which the tax related it would be necessary to find that
the Company was doing business within the State at that
time. Evidently in view of this necessity, the Court of
Appeals said upon the first appeal:
"Counsel for appellee mainly rests its case upon the
definition of 'what is doing business?' Is a life insurance
company doing business in a State only so long as it is
writing new business? If this is true, then the appellant
has no case. However, counsel for appellant insists that
an insurance company is doing business in this State in
the meaning of the statute so long as it is insuring the
lives of residents of this State and furnishing protection to
the beneficiaries named in the policies against loss from
death of the insured, this being the chief business for which
insurance companies are organized, and we are unable to
see how the court" (referring to the court of first instance)
"held, that a company collecting premiums on policies
issued in this State, when it was authorized to do business
in this State, can be said 'not to be doing business,'
when it was still insuring those same lives and collecting
the premiums upon the policies." 155 Kentucky, 197,
201.
Upon the second appeal the court merely referred to its
ruling on the first appeal and to other cases (Commonwealth v. Illinois Life Insurance Co., 159 Kentucky, 589;
Commonwealth v. Washington Life Insurance Co., 139
Kentucky, 581) in which that decision had been followed
without further discussion of grounds. We do not, therefore, find it necessary to consider the applicability of the
contract clause of the Federal Constitution, inasmuch as it

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

appears that the decision turned upon the conclusion that
the Company continued after January 1, 1907, to transact
-business within the jurisdiction. Otherwise, according to
the final ruling, the State would have had 'no case.'
The present case thus differs from that of Equitable
Life Assurance Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143.
It was not disputed that the Equitable Company was
actually doing business in Pennsylvania. See Commonwealth v. Equitable Life Assurance Society, 239 Pa. St. 288,
293. The question was as to the permissible measure
of a tax exacted for a privilege admittedly exercised. As
this court said: "The tax is a tax upon a privilege actually
used. The only question concerns the mode of measuring
the tax." 238 U. S. 147. In the present case it is not the
measure of the tax for doing business, but the very basis
of the tax-that is, whether the Company was doing business within the State-that is in controversy.
Assuming this to be the point in dispute, the question
at once arises whether the matter is reviewable in this
court. And we cannot doubt that the question whether
the State is taxing a foreign corporation for a privilege
not granted, that is, whether the acts done by the corporation at the time to which the tax relates are of such a
nature as to subject it to the local authority upon the
ground that it is doing acts which can only be done with
the permission of that authority, must be regarded as a
Federal question. Taxation without jurisdiction has been
held to be a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
(Louisville & Jefferson Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S.
385,. 398; Del., Lack. & West. R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 198
U. S. 341, 358; Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.
194, 209); and the principle involved applies to the assertion of authority on the part of the State to exact a license
tax for the privilege of doing acts which lie beyond the
sphere of local control. It follows that the quality of the
acts with respect to which the State exercises the taxing

Pi'OIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N v.KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

113

Opinion of the Court.

power must be considered when the constitutional protection against the transgression of jurisdictional limits
is invoked.
It is not controverted that the Company, at the tine
in question, was not soliciting insurance or collecting
moneys in that State. Further, it had no offices or agents
in Kentucky. Upon the averments which stand admitted
in the record it must be assumed that it was not performing any acts within the jurisdiction of Kentucky. It had
sought to withdraw itself completely from the State. The
conclusion that it continued to do business within the
State, notwithstanding this withdrawal, appears to be
based solely upon the fact that it continued to be bound
to policy holders resident in Kentucky under policies
previously issued in that State and that it received the
renewal premiums upon these policies. As the policies
remained in force, it is said that the Company continued
to furnish protection to citizens of Kentucky. The
renewal premiums, as already stated, were paid in New
York. There is, however, a manifest difficulty in holding
that the mere continuance of the obligation of the policies
constituted the transaction of a local business for which a
privilege tax could be exacted. As a privilege tax, the
tax rests upon the assumption that what is done depends
upon the State's consent. But the continuance of the
contracts of insurance already written by the Company
was not dependent on the consent of the State. It is
true that acts might be done within the State in connection with such policies, as for example in maintaining an
office or agents although new insurance was not written
or solicited, which could be considered to amount to the
continuance of a local business. In such case it would be
the actual transaction of business that would furnish the
ground of the license exaction, and not the mere existence
of the obligation under policies previously written. These
policies are contracts already made; the State cannot deVOL. CCXXXIX-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

stroy them or make their mere continuance, independent
of acts within its limits, a privilege to be granted or withheld. Neither the continuance of the obligation in itself,
nor acts done elsewhere on account of it, can be regarded
as being within the State's control. Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 578; Bedford v. Eastern Building & Loan Association, 181 U. S. 227, 241; New York Life Insurance Co. v.
Head, 234 U. S. 149, 163.
The defendant in error relies upon expressions contained
in the opinions in Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance
Company v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602, 610, and Mutual
Reserve Fund Life Association v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147,
157,-expressions which (in a full review of these cases
and others) were explained and limited in Hunter v. Mutual
Reserve Life Insurance Company, 218 U. S. 573. The cases
cited related to the validity of the service of process upon
foreign corporations. And it was held that a foreign insurance corporation which had transacted business within
the jurisdiction of a State continued, notwithstanding its
withdrawal from the State, to be subject to service of
process within the State, in actions arising out of the business so transacted, where the service was made in accordance with the conditions upon which the business was
permitted to be done. Thus, in the Phelps Case, service
was made in Kentucky under § 631 of the Kentucky
Statutes providing for service of process upon the commissioner of insurance. The Court of Appeals of Kentucky had decided that the withdrawal of the Company
from the State did not terminate the statutory agency
for the acceptance of service which had been created as a
condition of the Company's admission; the granted authority continued with respect to the business transacted.
Home Benefit Society v. Muehl, 109 Kentucky, 479, 484;
GermaniaInsurance Co. v. Ashby, 112 Kentucky, 303, 307,
308. But a distinction obtains when the question is
whether the mere continuance of the obligation to resident

PROVIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N v. KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

115

Opinion of the Court.

policy holders under the existing policies can be regarded
as constituting in itself the transaction of a local business.
This distinction was made clear in the Hunter Case.
There, the action was brought in New York against an
insurance company upon judgments which had been obtained against the company in North Carolina. The
question turned upon the validity of the service of process
in the North Carolina actions. The insurance company,
a New York corporation, had been admitted to do business
in North Carolina and had actually transacted business
in that State prior to the year 1899. The legislature of
North Carolina enacted a statute providing that any
corporation desiring to do business in the State after
June 1, 1899, must become a domestic corporation. Severe
penalties were prescribed for violation. Thereupon, the
board of directors of the company passed a resolution 'to
withdraw from the State and to dispense with and terminate the services of all its agents.' The agents were withdrawn accordingly and the premiums on policies theretofore issued were subsequently 'remitted by mail to-the
home office of the company in New York, where the policies and premiums were payable.' There were in that
case, outside of this course of business, four transactions
within the State after the withdrawal, which were of
minor importance and of isolated character. The actions
in question, in the North Carolina court, were not brought
upon policies issued in North Carolina, and consequently
it was sought to sustain the jurisdiction 6f the court upon
the ground that despite the withdrawal of the company,
it was still doing, business within the State. The court
expressly overruled this contention. The court said:
"It" (the company) "was given the choice to become a
domestic corporation or go out of the State. It chose
to go out of the State, and adopted the only way it could
to do so. We think such course was open to it and we
see no reason to question its good faith." 218 U. S. 583.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

It was recognized that the authority which the Company had given with respect to service of process continued in force as to actions growing out of business
which had been transacted within the State. But, the
continuance of the authority to accept service of process
resulted from the nature and construction pf that authority, and the view that the mere continuance of the
obligation of contracts previously made within the State
constituted a continuance of 'doing business' within the
State so as to give the Company a 'domicil of business'
and thus subject it to the State's jurisdiction was distinctly
disapproved.
In the present case, the question is not, as in
the Phelps
Case, one as to the right to revoke the agency created under
§ 631 of the Kentucky Statutes with respect to the service
of process in actions arising out of transactions which had
taken place within the State. It is as to the power of
the State to treat the mere continuance of the obligation
of the existing policies held by resident policy holders as
the transaction of a local business justifying the imposition
of an annual privilege tax in the absence of the actual
conduct of business within the limits of the State.
We cannot, conclude that the State has this power, and
in this view the judgment must be reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.

