OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

239 U. S.

NEW ORLEANS-BELIZE ROYAL MAIL AND CENTRAL AMERICAN STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
LIMITED, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 71. Argued November 11, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
Under the charter party in this case, the United States did not so
become the owner of the vessel pro hac vice as to be liable for injuries
during the term of the charter and for demurrage thereafter during
period of repair.
The charterer of a vessel does not become owner pro hac vice where
the control, as in this case, remains with the general owner, even
though the direction in which the vessel proceeds is determined by
the charterer.
Authority to direct the course of a third person's servant does not
prevent his remaining the servant of that third person.
The United States in this case, held not to be liable for damages to a
vessel under charter due approximately to marine risk. Morgan v.
United States, 14 Wall. 531, followed; United States v. Shea, 152
U. S. 178, distinguished.
The United States in this case, held not liable for damages sustained
by a vessel under charter to it when rendering services in aid of another vessel belonging to the United States.
The fact that this case is a hard one does not make the United States
legally responsible for the injuries sustained by a vessel during the
period chartered. United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623, distinguished.

THE facts, which involve the liability of the United
States for injuries to, and demurrage on, a vessel under
charter to the Government, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. R. Serven for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, with whom

NEW ORLEANS-BELIZE SS. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 203
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William Heitz was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a claim for injuries to the steamship Stillwater
while under charter to the United States from May 16,
1898, to November 3, 1898; and for demurrage from November 2 to December 14, 1898, while the vessel was
undergoing repairs. It was rejected by the Court of
Claims on the authority of Plant Investment Co. v. United
States, 45 C. Cls. 374.
The injuries were caused as follows: First, in June,
1898, there was a collision with another steamship in
Tampa Bay, it does not appear by whose fault. Three
weeks later the Stillwater was driven against the rocks
while unloading horses in Daiquiri Bay, Cuba, during a
gale, with other incidental damage. On July 27, in
Gauanica Bay, Porto Rico, there was another collision
with a steamer. On August 3, in obedience to orders
against which the captain protested, the Stillwater assisted in lightering the United States auxiliary cruiser St.
Paul, at Arroyo, Porto Rico, and while lying alongside the
St. Paul in rough water, was damaged by the after gun
sponson of the St. Paul being thrown down upon it. On
August 4, in obedience to orders from the naval lieutenant
in charge, against the protest of the captain, the Stillwater was made fast to the Massachusetts, then on the
rocks at Ponce, Porto Rico, and attempted to pull it off.
The weather was rough, and in consequence of rolling
against the Massachusetts and otherwise the Stillwater
was damaged and strained. On August 26, in obedience
to orders and against the protest of the captain, the Stillwater was placed alongside the Obdam, in the harbor of
Ponce, for the transfer of commissary stores from the
latter to her. The ships both rolled and the Stillwater

294,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

thumped heavily, and was badly injured. On September 3, at Ponce, the Spanish steamship Vasco ran into the
Stillwater in the night time doing some damage, and
finally, about three weeks later, the Stillwater went
aground on a sand bar and a hole afterwards was found
in her bottom. The bill for the repairing of the Stillwater
was rendered in a lump sum, showing only the cost as a
whole.
By the charter party made on May 12, 1908, Art. I, the
claimant "does hereby grant and let" and a Quartermaster of the Army "does hereby take" the vessel for
the voyages specified, "and for such longer time as she
may be required in the military service of the United
States, not to extend beyond" June 30, 1898, unless the
charter shall be renewed. II. "The said vessel shall on
the 16th day of May, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,
be ready to load and receive on board at New Orleans,
La., or elsewhere, whenever tendered alongside, by the
Quartermaster, United States Army, or his agent, only
such troops, persons, animals, and supplies or cargo as
he shall order and direct, and as the said vessel can conveniently stow and carry," reserving room for the vessel's
cables and materials, for officers and crew, and for the
necessary coal; and when so laden is to deliver the cargo
at such port as the Quartermaster's Department may
direct, "in good order and condition (the dangers of the
seas, fire, and navigation, and the restraints of princes
and rulers being always excepted)." IV. "The said vessel
now is, and shall be kept and maintained while in the
service of the United States, tight, stanch, strong, and
well and sufficiently manned, victualed, tackled, appareled, and ballasted, and furnished in every respect fit
for merchant or transport service, at the cost and charge
of her owner. The time lost in consequence of any deficiency in these respects, and in making repairs to said
vessel not attributable to the fault of the United States or

NEW ORLEANS-BELIZE SS.CO. v. UNITED STATES. 205
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its agents, is not to be paid for by the United States."
V . All port charges and pilotage after leaving New Orleans
will be paid by the United States but not the wages of
any person employed by the claimant continuously on
the vessel as pilot. VI. "The war risk shall be borne by
the United States; the marine risk by the owner." VII.
The United States is to furnish fuel "until the said vessel
is returned to the said Company at New Orleans. La., in
the same order as when received, ordinary wear and tear,
damage by the elements, collision at sea and in port,
bursting of boilers and breakage of machinery excepted."
VIII. All water is to be furnished by the Government,
and all cargo loaded and unloaded at its expense. X. The
vessel is valued at $125,000, and if retained in the service
of the United States so long that the money paid under
the charter (less the cost of running and keeping in repair
and a net profit of 33 per cent. on the appraised value),
is equal to the appraised value, the vessel is to become the
property of the United States without further payment
except what then may be due for services under the
charter. XI. The United States also, during the charter,
may purchase the vessel at its appraised value, with a
similar clause for deductions. In XIII and XIV there
are provisions for renewal and against a transfer of the
contract or any interest therein by the claimant. These,
we believe, are all the portions of the charter party material to the present case.
The main contest is upon the question whether by
this contract the United States became owner pro hac
vice, as affecting the extent of the liability assumed. The
claimant relies upon the words 'grant and let' on the
one side and 'take' on the other, the fixing of the price
at which the United States may purchase the vessel,
the reference to the vessel being 'returned,' the contemplation that the need of repairs may be attributable to
the fault of the United States, the control of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

States over- the destination of the ship, and some details,
as showing that the United States was in the place of
the owner for the time. But we cannot accept this conclusion. The general owner furnished the crew and a
master who at least regarded himself as representing
its interests since he protested against commands that
he received. It agreed to deliver the cargo in good condition, dangers of the sea &c. excepted. It assumed the
marine risk. We deem it plain that the control and
navigation of the vessel remained with the general owner,
although the directions in which it should proceed were
determined by the United States. Authority to direct
the course of a third person's servant does not prevent
his remaining the servant of the third person. Standard
Oil Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215. Little v. Hackett,
116 U. S. 366. Reybold v. United States, 15 Wall. 202.
We conclude that the possession followed the navigation
and control. The case resembles Morgan v. United States,
14 Wall. 531, not United States v. Shea, 152 U. S. 178,
as in the latter it was found that the vessel was under
the exclusive management and control of the Quartermaster's Department. See further Hooe v. Groverman,
1 Cranch, 214, 237. Reed v. United States, 11 Wall. 591.
The claimant contends, however, that if the ship was
not demised, the United States is liable under articles IV
and VII for not returning the ship in the same order as
when received, and for demurrage due to repairs attributable, as it is contended these were, to the fault of the
United States. The damage, however, for the most part
was due proximately to marine risks, which the claimant
assumed. Morgan v. United States, 14 Wall. 531. The
demurrage accrued after November 2, the date on which
it is found that the charter was ended. How much of
it was due to damage from marine risks does not appear.
The service in aid of the Massachusetts and others outside the contract, if any, imposed no liability upon the

WAGNER v. BALTIMORE.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

United States. United States v. Kimbal, 13 Wall. 636.
Reybold v. United States, 15 Wall. 202. Schillinger v.
United States, 155 U. S. 163. Harley v. United States,
198 U. S. 229, 234. Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S.
530, 539. We see no ground except the impression that
this is a hard case to apply the principle of United States v.
Russell, 13 Wall. 623.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in

the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

PHILLIP WAGNER, INCORPORATED, v. LESER
ET AL., JUDGES AND TAX COLLECTOR OF
BALTIMORE CITY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 28. Argued October 25, 26, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not interfere with the discretionary
power of the States to raise necessary revenues by imposing taxes
and assessments within their jurisdiction; nor are general taxing
systems to be presumed to be lacking in due process of law because
of inequalities or objections so long as arbitrary action is avoided.
A State may, without violating the Fourteenth Amendment, exercise
its authority to assess property on account of special benefit resulting
from an improvement already made.
An assessment for improvements already made and paid for, is not an
unconstitutional deprivation of property without due process of
law because the amount when paid is to be used for other public
purposes to which public funds are properly applicable.
Where the classification of property to be improved and the assessment are fixed by the statute itself and a specified sum fixed ratably

