OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

NORTHWESTERN

239 U. S.

LAUNDRY v. CITY OF DES
MOINES.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 121.

Argued December 9, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

Where the decree of the District Court is a general one, and there is no
attempt to make separate issue on the question of jurisdiction, but
the constitutional question is the basis of appeal to this court, the
appeal brings up the whole case.
Where no state statute is shown giving an adequate remedy at law to
one endeavoring to enjoin enforcement of an ordinance, this court
must deal with the questions both state and Federal as they appear
oqnthe face of the bill.
A State may, by direct legislation or through authorized municipalities,
declare the emission of dense smoke in cities or populous neighborhoods a nuisance and restrain it; and regulations to that effect, if not
arbitrary, are not unconstitutional under the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment even though they affect the use of
property or subject the owner to expense in complying with their
terms.
Whether a statute, which repeals a former statute but reenacts the
identical matter, affects the validity of ordinances established under
the earlier statute, is a state matter.
The state courts not having passed upon the question of whether the
ordinance involved in this case is in excess of the legislative grant,
this court finds that it is not, and also finds that the Smoke Abatement Ordinance of Des Moines, Iowa, is not invalid under the state
statute.
An ordinance, otherwise valid, which applies equally to all coming
within its terms is not unconstitutional as denying equal protection
of the law if there is reasonable' basis for the classification, even
though other businesses not affected might have been included
within its scope.
The fact that a state police statute includes certain municipalities and
omits others does not render it unconstitutional as denying equal
protection of the law.
The Des Moines Smoke Abatement Ordinance is not unconstitutional

NORTHWESTERN LAUNDRY v. DES MOINES.
239 U. S.

487

Argument for Appellant.

under the due process or equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment; nor is it in excess of the powers of the city under
the existing statutes of the State of Iowa.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under the
due process and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, and also the validity under the state
laws and Constitution, of the Smoke Abatement Ordinance
of the City of Des Moines, Iowa, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. 0. M. Brockett, for appellant, submitted:
Injunction lies to restrain enforcement of invalid municipal ordinances, the execution of which injuriously affects
private rights. Deems v. Baltimore, 80 Maryland, 164;
Mobile v. Louisville R. R., 84 Alabama, 115; Stevens v.
St. Mary's School, 143 Illinois, 336; Austin v. Cemetery
Assn., 87 Texas, 330; Bear v. Cedar Rapids, 147 Iowa, 341.
It is a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to vest
in any officer or body of officers wholly arbitrary and unregulated discretion to grant or withhold licenses to hold
and enjoy the natural and lawful rights of property and
occupation, as is attempted by provisions of the ordinance
complained of. Yick Wo. v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 359; Richmond v. Dudley, 129 Indiana, 112; Grainger v. Douglass
Jockey Club, 1418 Fed. Rep. 513.
Prior to the enactment of Chap. 37, cities had no power
to declare wht should constitute nuisances, or prescribe
punishment for their maintenance, nor to bring actions
in court for their abatement. Everett v. Council Bluffs, 46
Iowa, 66; Cole v. Kegler, 64 Iowa, 59; Nevada v. Hutchins,
59 Iowa, 506; Knoxville v. C. B. & Q. R. R. Co., 83 Iowa,
636; Chariton v. Barber, 54 Iowa, 306; City of Ottumwa v.
Chinn, 75 Iowa, 407.
If the repealing clause, found in ยง 3 of the act of the
thirty-fifth general assembly, in fact repealed the act of
the thirty-fourth general assembly, the only authority

().r)BI'I

nulm, 1915.

Airgiiiilt. For Appcllant.

239 U. S.

claimed for the offensive ordinance was thereby withdrawn and said ordinance was nullified. Martin v.
Oskaloosa, 99 N. W. Rep. 557; Pritchard v. Savannah
Street Ry., (Ga.) 14 L. R. A. 712; St. Louis v. Keilman,
139 S. W. Rep. 433.
As to whether the act of the thirty-fourth general
assembly was repealed by the act of the thirty-fifth general
assembly see United States v. Musgrave, 160 Fed. Rep. 700;
United States v. Ninety-nine Diamonds, 139 Fed. Rep. 961;
Kunkalman v. Gibson, (Ind.) 84 N. E. Rep. 985.
As to its construction and the legislative intent, see
Elmer v. United States, 45 Ct. Cl. 90; Freeman v. People,
(Ill.) 89 N. E. Rep. 667; People v. McCullough, 143 Ill.
App. 112; Rockingham County v. Chase, (N. H.) 71 Atl.
Rep. 634; Hampton v. Hickey, (Ark.) 114 S. W. Rep. 707;
Thorton v. State, 63 S. E. Rep. 301; Buffalo v. Lewis,
(N. Y.) 84 N. E. Rep. 809; Milligan v. Arnold, (Ind.) 98
N. E. Rep. 822; Pettiti v. State, 121 Pac. Rep. 278.
As to repeal by reenactment, see Murphy v. Utter, 186
U. S. 95; United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88; 36 Cyc.
1077; Child v. Shower, 18 Iowa, 272; Allen v. Davenport,
107 Iowa, 90; Ogden v. Witherspoon, 18 Fed. Cas. No.
19461.
The provisions of the ordinance which axe the basis for
the prosecutions complained of are in excess of the authority delegated by the acts of the thirty-fourth and
thirty-fifth general assemblies in question. Clark v.
Davenport, 14 Iowa, 500; Tuttle v. Church, 53 Fed. Rep.
425.
The features of the ordinance here involved are void for
unreasonableness. Davis v. Anita,- 73 Iowa, 325; State
Center v. Barenstien, 66 Iowa, 249; Meyers v. Chicago
R. R. Co., 57 Iowa, 555; Munsell v. Carthage, 105 Ill. App.
119; Everett v. Council Bluffs, 46 Iowa, 66; Bush v. Dubuque, 69 Iowa, 233; Centerville v. Miller, 57 Iowa, 56;
St. Louis v. Heitzberg Packing Co., 141 Missouri, 375.

N0)1THWES'ERN LAUNDRY v. DFq MOINES.
239 U. S.

489

Opinion of the Court.

The second section of the acts of the thirty-fourth and
thirty-fifth general assemblies, if construed to delegate
authority to enact ordinances containing the provisions in
question, are void because repugnant to both the state
and Federal Constitutions. Neola v. Reichart, 131 Iowa,
492; Iowa City v. McInnery, 114 Iowa, 586; Bloomfield v.
Trimble, 54 Iowa, 399; Bear v. Cedar Rapids, 141 Iowa,
341; State v. Benke, 9 Iowa, 203; Geebrick v. State, 52 Iowa,
401; State v. Weir, 33 Iowa, 134; Weir v. Cram, 37 Iowa,
649; Court v. Des Moines, 80 Iowa, 626; State v. Des
Moines, 108 Iowa, 36; Dowling v. Lancashire Ins. Co.,
(Wis.), 31 L. R. A. 112; State v. King, 37 Iowa, 649; Des
Moines v. Hillis, 55 Iowa, 643; Boyd Paving Co. v. Ward,
85 Fed. Rep. 27; State v. Copeland, 69 N. W. Rep. 27;
State v. Tower, 84 S. W. Rep. 10; State v. Orange, (N. J.),
36 Atl. Rep. 706.
Mr. Eskil C. Carlson, with whom Mr. H. W. Byers, and
Mr. Earl M. Steer, were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Northwestern Laundry and T. R. Hazard, its
president, filed a bill in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Iowa, against the City
of Des Moines, Iowa; James R. Hanna, Mayor; W. A.
Needham, Commissioner; Zell G. Roe, Comfissioner;
F. T. Van Liew, Commissioner; J. I. Myerly, Commisgioner; W. H. Byers, Commerce Counsel; R. 0. Brennan,
City Solicitor; Eskil C. Carlson, Assistant City Solicitor;
Harry McNutt, Smoke Inspector; and Paul Beer, W. H.
Harwood, L. Harbach, B. S. Walker and Geo. France,
Members Smoke Abatement Commission. The purpose
of the bill was to enjoin the enforcement of an ordinance
of the City of Des Moines, effective September 6, 1911,
which provided that the emission of dense smoke in por-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

tions of that city should be a public nuisance and prohibited the same. To that end the ordinance authorized
the appointment of a Smoke Inspector, and otherwise
dealt with the subject with a view to effecting the prohibitive purpose declared. The case was heard upon the
bill and a motion practically amounting to a demurrer.
The bill and amended bill are very lengthy. For our
-purposes, their allegations and the requirements of the
ordinance, sufficiently appear in what is said in the discussion and disposition of the case.
The protection of the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment is invoked. It is
insisted that the ordinance is void because its standard of
efficiency requires the remodeling of practically all furnaces which were in existence at the time of its adoption;
it forbids remodeling or substituted equipment without a
prescribed license; it forbids new construction without
such license; it fails to specify approved equipment, and
instead delegates, first to the inspector, and second, to the
smoke abatement commission, the unregulated discretion
to arbitrarily prescribe the requirements in each case,
without reference to any other as to the required character
of smoke prevention device, thus making the right of complainants and their class to own and operate such furnaces
subject to the pleasure of the inspector and commission.
It is averred that the ordinance exceeds the authority
delegated to the city by the legislature; that it attempts to
substitute its own definition of the crime and nuisance
committed by the emission of dense smoke for that enacted
by the legislature in the act under the pretended authority
of which the ordinance is adopted; that it is unreasonable
and tyrannical and exceeds the authority delegated for
want of uniformity as to the whole city and because the
*exceptions specified are not natural and just. It is alleged
that the ordinance prescribes arbitrary tests of degrees
of density, and enables the inspector to present irrebutta-

NORTHWESTERN LAUNDRY v. DES MOINES. 49t
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ble proof of violation; that it provides for unlimited prosecutions and successive fines, constituting excessive punishment in the aggregate, without adequate remedy or relief,
and undertakes to deprive the courts of power to determine
whether the nuisances have in fact been committed or
maintained.
A motion to dismiss the bill covered three grounds:
First, that the bill did not state any matter of equity
entitling complainants to the relief prayed, nor were the
facts, as stated in the bill, sufficient to entitle complainants
to any relief against defendants; Second, that the bill
showed upon its face that the complainants have a plain,
speedy, and adequate remedy at law; and Third, as it appeared on the face of the bill that the complainants were
all residents of the State of Iowa, and the relief demanded
was against an ordinance of the defendant city, the court
was without jurisdiction. The court sustained the motion,
and entered a final decree dismissing the bill with prejudice. There was no attempt to make a separate issue on
the question of jurisdiction, or to take an appeal upon that
question alone to this court. Judicial Code, ยง 238, of
March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1157.
The decree was a general one on the merits, and, as the
bill charged a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment not
so frivolous as to fail to give original jurisdiction, the appeal to this court from the final decree brings the whole
case here. Holder v. Aultman, 169 U. S. 81, 88; Field v.
Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618, 620; Boise Water Co. v.
Boise City, 230 U. S. 84, 91.
We are not furnished with any reference to an Iowa
statute giving an adequate remedy at law, and we find
none such. We have therefore to deal with the questions,
Federal and state made upon the face of the bill.
So far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, we have
no doubt the State may by itself or through authorized
municipalities declare the emission of dense smoke in

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

cities or populous neighborhoods a nuisance and subject
to restraint as such; and that the harshness of such legislation, or its effect upon business interests, short of a merely
arbitrary enactment, are not valid constitutional objections. Nor is there any valid Federal constitutional
objection in the fact that the regulation may require the
discontinuance of the use of property or subject the
occupant to large expense in complying with the terms
of the law or ordinance. Recent cases in this court are
Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171; Chicago & Alton
R. R. v. Tranberger,238 U. S.67; Hadacheck v. Sebastian,
Chief of Police, decided December 20, 1915, ante, p. 394.
That such emission of smoke is within the regulatory
power of the State, has been often affirmed by state
courts. Harmon v. Chicago, 110 Illinois, 400; Bowers v.
Indianapolis,169 Indiana, 105; Peoplc v. Lewis, 86 Michigan, 273; St. Paul v. Haugbro, 93 Minnesota, 59; State v.
Tower, 185 Missouri, 79; Rochester v. Macauley-Fien
Milling Co., 199 N. Y. 207. And such appears to be the
law in Iowa, McGill v. Pintsch Compressing Co., 140
Iowa, 429.
It is contended that the ordinance is in excess of the
legislative authority conferred by the State of Iowa upon
the City of Des Moines. This question does not seem to
have been directly passed upon by the Supreme Court of
Iowa.
The statute of Iowa enacted April 15th, 1911; before the
passage of this ordinance, is as follows:
"An Act declaring the emission of smoke within the
corporate limits of certain cities to be a public nuisance,
and conferring upon such cities additional powers for the
abatement of such nuisances .
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Iowa:
"Section 1. Declared a nuisance. The emission of
dense smoke within the corporate limits of any of the

NORTIWESTERN LAUNDRY L. DES MOINES.
239 U. S.

493

Opinion of the Court.

cities of this state now or hereafter having a population
of sixty-five thousand (65,000) inhabitants or over, including cities acting under the commission plan of government is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
"Section 2. Abatement. Every such city is hereby
empowered to provide by ordinance for the abatement of
such nuisance either by fine or imprisonment or by action
in the district court of the county in which such city is
located, or by both, such action to be prosecuted in the
name of the city. They may also by ordinance provide
all necessary rules and regulations for smoke inspection
and the abatement and prevention of the smoke nuisance."
Laws of Iowa, V. 34, chap. 37, p. 27. Approved April 15,
1911.
The ordinance in question was passed on September 6,
1911, and became effective, as we have said, on that date.
The City of Des Moines is within the terms of this act.
On March 20, 1913, the legislature passed another law,
as follows:
"An Act declaring the emission of smoke within the
corporate limits of certain cities, including cities acting
under special charter, to be a public nuisance, and conferring upon such cities additional powers for the abatement of such nuisances and repealing chapter thirty-seven
of the laws of the thirty-fourth general assembly. .
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Iowa:
"Section 1. Declared a Nuisance. The emission of
dense smoke within the corporate limits of the cities of the
state, including cities acting under commission form of
government, now or hereafter having a population of
thirty thousand or over and in cities acting under special
charter or hereafter having a population of sixteen thou.sand or over, is hereby declared a nuisance.
"Section 2. Abatement. Every such city is hereby
empowered to provide by ordinance for the abatement of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

such nuisance either by fine or imprisonment, or by action
in the district court of the county in which such city is
located, or by both; such action to be prosecuted in the
name of the city. They may also by ordinance provide
all necessary rules and regulations for smoke inspection,
and the abatement and prevention of the smoke nuisance.
"Section 3. Repeal. That chapter thirty-seven (37)
of the laws of the thirty-fourth general assembly be and
the same is hereby repealed." Laws of Iowa, V. 35, p.
43.
This statute likewise includes the City of Des Moines.
The former statute was repealed by the new one. The
effect of this repeal upon the validity of the ordinance is a
state question, and as we understand the Iowa decisions,
the authority of the ordinance here in question remained
unimpaired. The statutory change did not have the effect
to annul the ordinance passed under the former identical
grant of authority. Allen v. Davenport, 107 Iowa, 90;
State v. Prouty, 115 Iowa, 657.
It is further contended that conceding the statutory
authority the ordinance is in excess of the legislative
grant. This question does not seem to have been passed
upon specifically in any Iowa case called to our attention.
The statute, after declaring the emission of dense smoke
within the corporate limits of such cities as Des Moines,
to be a nuisance, authorizes the city to provide by ordinance for the abatement of such nuisance -by fine or
imprisonment or by action in the District Court of the
county, or both, such action to be prosecuted in the name
of the city; and, furthermore, municipalities are authorized to provide by ordinance all necessary rules and regulations for smoke inspection and the abatement or prevention of the smoke nuisance. The Smoke Inspector
must be qualified by training and experience to understand the theory and practice of smoke inspection. He has
the benefit of counsel of the Smoke Abatement Conunis-

NORTHWESTERN LAUNDRY v. DES MOINES.
239 U. S.

495

Opinion of the Court.

sion, consisting of five members to be appointed by the
City Council, at least one of whom must have had experience in the installation, and conduct of power and
heating plants. From the Smoke Inspector there is an
appeal to the Smoke Abatement Commission in case of
disagreement over plans for newly constructed plants or
reconstruction of old ones. This grant of authority would
seem to be sufficient to authorize the passage of an ordinance of a reasonable nature, such as we believe the one
now under consideration to be. It delegates authority
to carry out details to boards of local commissioners.
That such rules and regulations are valid, subject as they
are to final consideration in the courts, to determine
whether they are reasonably adapted to accomplish the
purpose of a statute, has been frequently held. 2 Dillon
Munic. Corps. 5th Ed. ยง 574. We find nothing in the
Iowa cases to indicate that the Supreme Court of that
-State has laid down any different rule upon this question.
That the courts of Iowa may be resorted to in case of an
abuse of the powers vested in the Inspector and Commission seems to follow from the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State in Hubbell v. Higgins, 138 Iowa, 136.
As to the attack upon the ordinance because of arbitrary
classification, this question has been so often discussed
that nothing further need be said. The ordinance applies
equally to all coming within its terms, and the fact that
other businesses might have been included, does not make
such arbitrary classification as annuls the lgislation. Nor
does it make classification illegal because certain cities
are included and others omitted in the statute. Eckerson
v. Des Moines, 137 Iowa, 452.
We think the District Court was right in dismissing
the bill upon its merits.
Affirmed.

