OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Syllabus.

239 U. S.

tracts, to characterize the discounts. In any view of the
contracts those discounts were not charges for services
rendered the bankrupts. Loans are never regarded as
services."
Houghton v. Burden, 228 U. S. 161, affirming In re
Canfield, 193 Fed. Rep. 934, is plainly distinguishable,
for there the contract contemplated actual services by
the lender, and this provision was found not to have
been a mere cover for usury.
The rulings adverse to the claim for moneys paid to
Manning and for counsel fees in the proceedings ae so
manifestly correct as to require no discussion.
Decree affirmed.

KANAWHA & MICHIGAN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. KERSE, ADMINISTRATOR OF BARRY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KANAWHA COUNTY, STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 129.

Argued. December 10, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

Where the highest appellate court of the State refuses to allow a writ
of error to review a judgment based on a verdict, the writ of error
from this court is directed to the trial court.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, the action lies for injury or death
resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of the officers,
agents or employ6s of such carrier.
To conduct switching operations upon a switch obstructed in such
manner as to endanger the lives of brakemen upon its cars, is evidence of negligence on the part of the railroad company, and the
existence of such an obstruction for a considerable period of time is
presumptive evidence of notice to the company.
The burden of proof of assumption of risk is on the employer, and unless
the evidence indisputably shows such assumption, the trial court
does not err in refusing to take that question from the jury.

KANAWHA RAILWAY v. KERSE.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Knowledge of a fixed obstruction over a track in such position as not
to clear a man standing on top of a box car necessarily imports a
risk to an experienced brakeman; and, in the absence of evidence of
objection on his part or promise of reparation by the employer,
assumption of the risk.
The fact that the court erroneously refused defendant's request for
an instruction as to plaintiff's assumption of risk based on the 'iypothesis of the latter's knowledge of an existing condition i not
ground for reversal where tie jury by a specific finding negatived that
hypothesis.

Tim facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment in an action for injuries under the Employers'
Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leroy Allebach and Mr. W. N. King foi plaintiff in
error:

The court erred in refusing to arrest the evidence from
the jury and to direct a verdict in favor of defendant, at
the close of plaintiff's evidence, and the court erred in
refusing to direct a verdict for defendant, at the close of
all the evidence. A Federal question is involved; the
burden of proving negligence is on the plaintiff; assumption of risk is available as a defense; assumption of risk
need not be affirmatively pleaded under West Virginia
law; the accident was caused solely by employ6's negligence.
The court erred in refusing to give the instructions requested by the defendant below before argument to the
jury. Defendant in error had actual knowledge of the
presence of the obstacle over the track and knew of the
dangers connected therewith. The finding of the jury is
not supported by any evidence. The court could have
avoided this error by directing a verdict, as requested.
In support of these contentions, see Farley v' N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. R., 87 Connecticut, 328; Hoylman v. Railway Co., 65 W. Va. 264, 270; Melton v. Ches. & Ohio Ry.,
64 W. Va. 168; North CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S.
VOL. ccxxxix-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

248; Oliver v. Ohio River R. R., 42 W. Va. 703; Pankey v.
A., T. & S. F. R. R., 180 Mo. App. 185; Ridgeley v. West
Grafton, 46 W. Va. 445; St. L., I. M. & S. Ry. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265; Sanderson v. Panther Lumber Co.,
50 W. Va. 42; Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492,
502; Southern Ry. v. Bennett, 233 U. S. 80; Williamson v.
N. N. & M. V. Co., 34 W. Va. 657; Woodell v. W. Va.
Improvement Co., 38 W. Va. 23, 47; Hogg's Pleading and
Forms, ยง 228, pp. 184-85.
Mr. George A. Berry, with whom Mr. R. F. Downing was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act to recover damages because of the death
of one Barry, a brakeman in the. Railway Company's
yard at Charleston, West Virginia, on April 23, 1911. It
was pleaded and was proved without dispute that he
received injuries resulting in his death while employed in
interstate commerce by the Railway Company, admittedly
a common carrier. There was a verdict in favor of the
administrator, and the Supreme Court of Appeals of
West Virginia refused to allow a writ of error to review
the resulting judgment; hence our writ was directed to
the trial court.
The principal argument of plaintiff in error is addressed
to the refusal of the court to direct a verdict in favor of
defendant upon the ground that there was no proof of
negligence on the part of the Railway Company, and that
there was clear and undisputed proof that Barry assumed
the risk of such an injury as that which resulted in his death.
It appears that Barry was an experienced yard brakeman, and was employed in that capacity by the Railway
Company in its Charleston yard. Among the industries
served by the yard was that of the Kanawha Brewing

KANAWHA RAILWAY v. KERSE.
2.99 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Company, which had a private switch running through
its premises and connecting with defendant's main line.
Some time prior to April 23, 1911, carpenters in the employ of the Brewing Company had placed one or two
pieces of timber, about 2 inches thick and 3 to 6 inches
wide, in a horizontal position across the switch track and
at a height between 3 feet and 4Y feet above the top of
an ordinary box car. The timber was secured by nails
to two buildings on opposite sides of the track. There
was a conflict of testimony as to the length of time that
the timber had been .in position prior to the accident,
witnesses fixing it at periods varying from two or three
days to a month. It was necessary for members of defendant's yard- crew to pass in and out of the switch and
under the obstruction frequently. The timber was in
plain view, but because of a sharp curve in the switchtrack could be seen by those upon the top of a car for only
a short distance when approaching it. On the twenty-third
of April a switching crew, of which Barry was that day a
member, went upon the switch to haul out upon the main
line a car destined foi interstate commerce. The engine,
in charge of one Leonard, was backed in upon the switch,
and Barry coupled up the car,. which was an ordinary
box car, and then climbed to the top of it. Leonard started
to pull out of the switch, and as the train proceeded
Barry, who was standing near the rear end of the car,
and not looking forward; but sidewise (presumably watching Wintz, the conductor, who was standing upon the
ground in charge of the train), came in contact with
the timber and was thrown to the ground, sustaining a
fracture of the skull, from which he soon died.
The action of the Railway Company, through its employ~s, in conducting its switching operations upon a
switch obstructed, as this one was, in such manner as to
endanger the lives of brakemen upon its cars, speaks so
clearly of negligence that no time need be spent upon it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The evidence that the timber had been in the position
described for a considerable period of time was presumptive evidence of notice to the company, besides which
the switch engineer and conductor both testified to actual knowledge on their part, prior to the time of the
accident to Barry. Under the Employers' Liability Act
(35 Stat. 65, c. 149, ยง 1) the action lies for "injury or
-death resulting in whole or in part from the negligence
of any of the officers, agents, or employees of such carrier."
Upon the question of assumption of risk, the case for
the Railway Company was stronger. One Forbes, a fellow brakeman, testified that Barry had worked on the
same crew with witness during all the time he was employed by the Company, this being "something like a
month;" that the obstruction across the Brewing Company's track had been there "pretty near the whole time
Mr. Barry was working for the company-must have
been there something like a month;" that "I told Mr.
Barry to be careful and watch this piece of timber, myself, and I and Mr. Barry had passed under it ourselves,
and we had to get down this way (witness stoops quite
low) to get under the piece of timber on the box car, and
I told him several times about watching;" and that he
and Barry probably went in on the switch together two
or three times a day, and he had often seen Barry go under the obstruction. And Wintz, the conductor, testified
that Barry commenced work for the company "about the
first of the month, and worked up Until the 23rd;" also
that "I notified him about the overhead pieces, to be
careful and watch out for them." This testimony, as
seen in print, certainly seems convincing, although Wintz,
upon cross-examination, could not say but that he had
told Mr. Kerse, the administrator, that he and Barry
had "never had any conversation at all about this overhead obstruction."
But there was substantial contradiction of the testimony

KANAWHA RAILWAY v. KERSE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of these witnesses. Leonard, the engineer of the yard
locomotive, called as a witness for plaintiff, testified
distinctly that the day on which Barry met his death was
the first that the witness had seen him; that he did not
know whether Barry was employed by the Railway
Company or not. And one Greter, called by defendant,
testified that it was to him Barry had applied for employment as yard brakeman, and he identified the written
application signed by Barry; he also testified that Barry
entered the service of the Company "about three or four
days" after the application was approved. The application itself was introduced in evidence by defendant; it is
dated March 31, 1911, and is indorsed "Approved, A. N.
Lyon, Supt., 4/14/1911." The latter date, coupled with
Greter's testimony, would seem to fix April 17th or 18th
(five or six days before the accident) as the earliest date
on which Barry was employed by the Railway Company.
And this is so inconsistent with a material part of the
testimony of Forbes and Wintz that the jury may reasonably have concluded that their testimony should be
rejected in toto-falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus-and that
in truth, as indicated by the testimony of Leonard, Barry
had never worked upon the Brewing Company's switch
previous to the time of the disaster. The burden of proof
of the assumption of risk was upon defendant, and unless
the evidence tending to show it was clear and from unimpeached witnesses, and free from contradiction, the
trial court could not be charged with error in refusing to
take the question from the jury.
Only one matter remains to be mentioned. The court
refused to instruct the jury, as requested by defendant,
"that if they find from the evidence that Thomas P.
Barry knew of the presence of the piece of timber over the
track of the Kanawha Brewing Company, and knew thai
it would not clear a man standing on the top of a box car,
and with such knowledge continued in the service of

O(CTOBI Il, TERM, 1915.
Opinion of thc Court.

239 U. S.

The Kanawha and Michigan Railway Company, where his
duties required him to pass under said piece of timber,
then said Thomas P. Barry must be held to have assumed
the risk of being injured by being struck by said piece
of timber and there can be no recovery by the plaintiff
herein."
Since knowledge of a fixed obstruction over the track
in such a position as not to clear a man standing upon the
top of a box car would seem necessarily to import to an
experienced brakeman that there was a risk of injury to
him in that situation, and since there was no evidence
of objection by Barry or promise of reparation by his
employer to rebut the presumption that the risk was
assumed, the refusal of this request appears plainly
erroneous. But this does not result in a reversal of the
judgment under review, because by specific findings of
fact the jury negatived the hypothesis upon which alone
the instruction was based. In response to particular
interrogatories submitted by the court, they found that
Barry did not know that the piece of timber was stretched
over the track, and (of course) did not know that the
timber was so low that it would not clear him when standing upon the top of the box car.
A judgment is not to be reversed for an error by which
the plaintiff in error cannot have been prejudiced. And
the refusal of an instruction as to the legal result that
would follow only upon the hypothesis that the deceased
knew of the presence of the timber, and knew it would
not clear a man standing upon the top of a box car, became legally insignificant when the jury had in its findings
distinctly negatived the facts that made up the hypothesis.
Thus the progress of the trial rendered the error wholly
immaterial to the merits. Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth, 5
Pet. 132, 135; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Courtney, 186
U. S. 342, 351.
Judgment affirmed.

