OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

tion, or in repairing or keeping in usable condition a
roadbed, bridge, engine, car or other instrument then in
use in such transportation. What he was doing was
altering the location of a fixture in a machine shop. The
connection between the fixture and interstate transportation was remote at best, for the only function of the fixture
was to communicate power to machinery used in repairing parts of engines some of which were used in such
transportation. This, we think, demonstrates that the
work in which Shanks was engaged, like that of the coal
miner in the Yurkonis Case, was too remote from interstate transportation to be practically a part of it, and
therefore that he was not employed in interstate commerce within the meaning of the Employers' Liability
Act.
Judgment affirmed.

INTERSTATE AMUSEMENT COMPANY v.
ALBERT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 69. Argued November 10, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
An exception to the general rule that findings of fact of the state court
in ordinary cases coming to this court under ยง 237, Judicial Code,
other than those arising under the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution, are binding upon this court, is where a Federal right
has been denied as the result of a finding without support in the
evidence.
In this case, the finding of the state court that a foreign corporation
was doing business in the State other than interstate commerce having adequate support in the record, it is binding upon this court.
A State may restrict the right of a foreign corporation to engage in

INTERSTATE AMUSEMENT CO. v. ALBERT.
239 U. S.

561

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

business within its limits or to sue in its courts so long as interstate
commerce is not burdened thereby.
A corporation of another State carrying on business in the State of
Tennessee other than interstate commerce is not deprived of its
property without due process of law, nor is its interstate commerce
interfered with, by the statute of Tennessee requiring a foreign corporation to file a copy of its charter and take certain other specified
steps before it can maintain an action in the courts of the State.
128 Tennessee, 417, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. G. H. West, with whom Mr. W. E. Drummond and
Mr. W. B. Miller were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff in error was not engaged in doing business in
Tennessee. Therefore, the decision of the court below is
without support in law, and operates to deprive the company of its property without due process of law.
There is no evidence to support the judgment and no
basis for the conclusion that the company did business in
Tennessee as contemplated by the Act. Railroadv. Albers
Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573; Creswell v. Knights of
Pythias, 225 U. S. 246; Wood v. Chesborough, 228 U. S. 678;
Railroad v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 277; Washington v.
Fairchild,224 U. S. 510.
On a writ of error to a state court in such a case this
court will review the findings of fact by the state court and
analyze the facts *when necessary to determine whether
or not a Federal right, seasonably claimed, has been infringed. Washington v. Fairchild,224.U. S. 510; Railroad
v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 485; Railway v. West Virginia,
236 U. S. 605.
While .generally, if a decision of the state court can be
upheld on an independent ground it will not be disturbed,
yet if such ground or conclusion can only be upheld by a
denial of due process of law, the state court will be reversed. Stewart v. Michigan, 232 U. S. 665.
Where a state statute creates a new offense and prescribes
VOL. ccxxxix--36

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

the~penalty, or gives a new right and declares a remedy, the
punishment or remedy can be only that which the statute
prescribes. Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn ProductsCo., 236 U. S.
165; Lupton Sons Co. v. Automobile Club, 225 U. S. 489.
The general right to contract relative to business and to
purchase or sell labor 'is protected from prohibitive state
legislation by the Fourteenth Amendment. Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 173.
Plaintiff in error had a right to make the contract involved in this case and to engage actors in Chicago pursuant thereto. A judgment based solely upon a statute
against foreign corporations doing business in a State is
void when applied to such business done beyond the State,
because a deprivation of property without due process of
law. Old Wayne Association v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 22;
Simon v. Railroad, 236 U. S. 115; Railway v. Polt, 232
U. S. 65.
The highest court of a State is an instrumentality of the
State through which the latter may deprive a citizen of his
property without due process of law. Chicago & C. R. R.
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Abbott v. Bank of Commerce, 175
U. S. 409.
Whatever of business, if any, plaintiff in error did in
Tennessee in connection with this contract, or while it was
in force, was interstate commerce and not subject to burdens imposed by statutes of Tennessee. To hold otherwise
was violative of Art. I, ยง 8, sub-sec. 3, Federal Constitution. International Text Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91;
Same v. Lynch, 218 U. S. 664; Buck Stove Co. v. Vickers,
226 U. S. 205; Heyman v. Hayes, 236 U. S. 178.
The contention that a statute as construed and applied
by a state court is void as an attempted state regulation
of interstate commerce, will, in event of a decision against
such contention, support a writ of error from this court.
Adams Exp. Co. v. Kentucky, 214 U. S. 218.
Plaintiff in error did not solicit other contracts in Ten-

INTERSTATE AMUSEMENT CO. v. ALBERT.
239 U. S.

563

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

nessee at the time the one in question was made or during
its existence. But if it had done so, as such contracts were
to be executed by it in Chicago in ordinary course, the
solicitation thereof in Tennessee by traveling salesmen
would have been protected as interstate commerce against
the burdens imposed by the Tennessee statutes. Stewart
v. Michigan, 232 U. S. 665. Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227
U. S. 389.
The transmission of a proposal for an interstate transac'tion is a part of the interstate transaction. Dozier v.
Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Davis v. Virginia, 236 U. S. 697;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Milling Co., 218 U..S. 406; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. Brown, 234 U. S. 542.
A State cannot tax a corporation for doing such character of business, yet this Tennessee statute lays a twofold
annual tax on corporations subject thereto, as before
shown. Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 62; Telegraph
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Railroad v. Texas, 210 U. S.
217; Railroad v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280.
Neither can a State tax the property of a foreign corporation located in another State, or its capithl stock represented by such property,-but this is precisely what the
Tennessee statute does. Ludwig v. Telegraph Co., 216
U. S. 146; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 62.
Interstate commerce includes the transportation of persons and property. There may be, therefore, a movemept
of persons as well as of property. Hoke v. United States,
227 U. S. 320.
The decision complained of denies to plaintiff in error
the equal protection of the laws of Tennessee, contrary
to the Fourteenth Amendment. Lumber Co. v. Moore,
126 Tennessee, 313, 321.
Mr. F. M. Thompson and Mr. Joe V. Williams, with
whom Mr. Neal L. Thompson were on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error recovered a judgment in one of the
courts of the State of Tennessee upon a cause of action
that arose out of a written contract, dated May 24, 1909,
whereby it agreed to "engage and book" for the firm of
Catron & Albert, then operating a theater in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, a certain number of "vaudeville acts" each
week for certain weeks in each year, during the continuance of the contract, in consideration of the payment
weekly of a "booking fee" of ten dollars and a commission
of 5% upon the salary of each performer. It appeared that
plaintiff in error was a corporation of the State of Missouri,
but had a situs in Chicago, Illinois.. Upon the ground that
it was guilty of non-compliance with the statute of Tennessee relating to foreign corporations doing business in
the State, in that it had failed to file a copy of its charter
in the ,office of the secretary of state, the Supreme Court
of Tennessee reversed the judgment and dismissed the suit
(128 Tennessee, 41'7), and the case comes here upon questions raised under ihe "commerce clause" of the Constitution of the United States and the "due process of law"
and "equal protection" clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Excerpts from the statute are set forth in the margin.'
1 Acts of 1877, chap. 31; Acts of 1891, chap. 122; Amended by Acts
of 1895, chap. 81, to read as follows:
"Section 1. . . . That each and every corporation created or
organized under, or by virtue of, any government other than that of the
State, for any purpose whatever, desiring to own property, or carry on
business in this State of any kind or. character, shall first file, in the
office of the Secretary of State, a copy of its charter..
"Section 2. . . . That it shall be unlawful for any foreign corporation to do business, or attempt to do business, in this State without
first having complied with the provisions of this Act, .
"Section 3. . . . That when a corporation complies with the
provisions of this Act, said corporation may then sue and be sued in the

INTERSTATE AMUSEMENT CO. v. ALBERT.
239 U. S.

565

Opinion of the Court.

It is the insistence of plaintiff in error that it could not,
consistently with the cited provisions of the Federal
Constitution, be required to subject itself to the law of the
State unless it was doing business within the State; and
that in fact it did no such business, or, if it did any, it was
*interstate commerce, not subject to state regulation.
Respecting the effect of the written contract under
which the cause of action arose, the court held that it
created merely the relationship of principal and agent
between the parties; that by it plaintiff in error became
the agent of Catron & Albert bound to render them the
personal services called for by the contrant in consideration of the specified sums to be paid by them to it, and
that this consideration was to be forwarded weekly by
Catron & Albert from Chattanooga, Tennessee, to Chicago, Illinois, where the office of plaintiff in error was
located; that by the terms of the agreement plaintiff
in error was'not to be responsible for failure on the part
of the actors to fulfill their contracts nor for any accident
or delay preventing their arrival in Chattanooga at the
times appointed; that under the contract and the evidence
showing the execution of it, it was not contemplated that
plaintiff in error should engage nor did it so far as the
record shows engage in the interstate transportation of
the troupes of vaudeville actors, and that while interstate
transportation of such actors might or might not become
an incident or factor in the execution of the contract, such
interstate commerce was only incidental, and not a part
of the agreement as made between the parties. It was
held that this circumstance did not exempt the business
done under the contract from state regulation or control.
Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270, 274, and Hooper v.
California, 155 U. S. 648, 655, were cited.
courts of this State, and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of this State
as fully as if it were created under the laws of the State of Tennessee; . . .

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The court further found as matter of fact that it was the
ordinary business of plaintiff in error to send troupes of
actors from one theater to another in the State of Tennessee for the purpose of presenting plays to audiences
assembled in each separate theater, and from the revenues
derived by means of such performances it received an
income, and its compensation arose from acts done in
Tennessee in the several theaters where the troupes of
actors appeared and performed; that the account sued on
showed more than fifty different items, each representing
plaintiff in error's share of the revenues received from as
many separate and distinct performances by troupes of
actors which it caused to appear in defendant theater
alone; and that for the purpose of enlarging and extending
its business in Tennessee plaintiff in error had agents. who
entered that State and made contracts with other theater
owners than Catron & Albert; that its articles of association stated its purpose to be to conduct and operate a
general theatrical and amusement business, and this
purpose it carried out by the establishment of "circuits"
on which were located theaters convenient one to another,
and its scheme contemplated the making of contracts with
each of these theaters similar to that of Catron & Albert,
and the collection of its revenues arising from booking fees
and its percentages on actors' salaries; that, in short, it was
a middleman levying tribute from the owners of the houses
where amusement was afforded and from the actors whose
talents were employed; and that its claim in suit arose out
of business thus conducted.
It is settled that such findings of fact, in ordinary cases
other than those arising under the "contract clause" of
the Constitution -are binding upon this court. WatersPierceOil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 97; Rankin v. Emigh,
218 U. S. 27, 32; Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236,
243. But the rule has its exceptions, as, for instance,
where there is ground for the insistence that a Federal

INTERSTATE AMUSEMENT CO. v. ALBERT.
239 U. S.

567

Opinion of the Court.

right has been denied as the result of a finding that is
without support in the evidence. Southern Pacific Co. v.
Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611; Nwth CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 259; Carlson v. Washington, 234 U. S.
103, 106.
Plaintiff in error makes the point that the findings here
are without support in the evidence; but this is not well
taken. The evidence is meagre-none having been offered
by plaintiff in error-but there is evidence tending to
show business transacted in the State, and it does not
clearly appear to have been interstate business. Reference
is made to the form of the contract, and especially its
fifth paragraph, which states that plaintiff in error is
acting solely in the capacity of agent of the theater owner,
and is not responsible for failure of artists to fulfill their
contracts, nor for any acident or delay preventing them
from arriving in Chattanooga when scheduled; but the
same paragraph binds plaintiff in error to "use every precaution to see that artists fulfill their contracts." Moreover, the prohibition of the statute, which, as construed
and applied by the courts of Tennessee in a line of cases,
renders illegal the contracts of foreign corporations carrying on business without complying with the laws applicable thereto, and debars such corporations from suing
in*the state courts thereon (Cary-Lombard Lumber Co. v.
Thomas, 92 Tennessee, 587, 593; Insurance Co. v. Kennedy,
96 Tennessee, 711, 714; Harris v. Water & Light Co.,
108 Tennessee, 245; Lumber Co. v. Moore, 126 Tennessee,
313), was evidently established as a matter of public
policy, not so much for the benefit of parties sued as in
the interest of the people at large; and the question is not
so Much-What was agreed to be done? as-What was
done?
There being adequate support in the record for the
finding of the Supreme Court of the State that plaintiff
in error was doing business in the State, other than inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

state commerce, without complying with the statute
quoted, the contentions based upon the commerce clause
and the due process of law clause alike must fall. For the
authority of the State to restrict the right of a foreign
corporation to engage in business within its limits or to
sue in its courts, so long as interstate commerce be not
thereby burdened, is perfectly well settled. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 181; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S.
648, 655; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589, 591;
Anglo-American Prov. Co. v. Davis Prov. Co., 191 U. S.
373; Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 203.
The insistence based upon the "equal protection" clause
is unsubstantial, and calls for no discussion.
Judgment affirmed.

HOME BOND COMPANY v. McCHESNEY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF AMERICAN FIBRE
REED COMPANY AND NEW ENGLAND CHAIR
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 90. Argued December 3, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
This court follows the conclusions, reached by the Special Master and
affirmed by both courts below, that transactions purporting to be
purchases of accounts receivable from the bankrupt were really loans
with the accounts transferred as collateral security.
210 Fed. Rep. 893, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve construction of contracts
between the bankrupt and one dealing with him and
determination of whether such contracts were purchases
of accounts or loans with the accounts as collateral, are
stated in the opinion.

