CRANE v. NEW YORK.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

CRANE v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF SPECIAL SESSIONS, FIRST DISTRICT,
CITY OF NEW YORK,
No. 388.

STATE OF NEW YORK.

Argued October 12, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.

A state statute regarding employment of laborers otherwise valid is
not unconstitutional under the equal provision clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because it makes distinctions between aliens
and citizens. There is a basis for such a classification. Otherwise
decided on the authority of Heim v. McCall, ante, p. 175.
214 N. Y. 154, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality of § 14
of the Labor Law of New York, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. James F. McKenney for plaintiff in error submitted:
The conviction of plaintiff in error was erroneous because it was based upon a violation of § 14, c. 36, Laws of
1909 of New York, known as the Labor Law, which is
void, as in conflict with § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment;
also because it abridges the privileges and immunities of
plaintiff in error, a citizen of the United States, and of his
alien employ6s by depriving them of their right to contract
for labor. The enactment of said law and enforcement of
its provisions deprives plaintiff in error and his employ~s
of liberty and property without due process of law and
of the equal protection of the laws.
Section 14 is void, -being in'coflict with subd. 2, Art.
VI of the United States Constitution providing that
treaties made under the authority of the United States,
shall be the supreme law of the land. Pursuant to said
article treaties have been entered into by the United
States with various nations including Italy, which treaties

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

were in effect at the time of the act complained of and
at the time of such conviction, and which put aliens
within the State of New York upon an equality with
citizens of the State with respect to the right to labor
upon public works, and Congress had pursuant to said
section duly enacted a law (Rev. Stat., § 1977) granting
to all persons within the jurisdiction of the United States
the same right in every State and Territory to make and
enforce contracts as is enjoyed by white citizens. Said
treaties and said law nullified the provisions of said § 14
of the Labor Law.
The Fourteenth Amendment, either ex proprio vigore,
or by virtue of treaties entered into, and laws of Congress
enacted, pursuant to the provisions of Article VI of the
Constitution, has granted to resident aliens in the State
of New York an equal right with citizens of that State to
contract to labor upon the public works of the State, and
chapter 14 of the Labor Law, being in contravention of
that right, was and is unconstitutional and void, and the
conviction of plaintiff in error for violation thereof was
error, and should be set aside.
Authority for this law does not lie in the police power.
The distinction between citizens and aliens is insufficient to justify the act; nor is freedom to contract sufficient
justification for the law.
Section 14 violates the Fourteenth Amendment, reinforced as it is by § 1977, Rev. Stat., and also violates
treaties duly entered into by the United States with foreign
nations.
The contract agreement to comply with the law falls
with the law itself.
The fact that the Legislature of the State of New York
after the conviction of plaintiff in error amended § 14
of the Labor Law, does not militate against the rights of
the plaintiff in error in this court.'
The conviction of plaintiff in error should be reversed

CRANE v. NEW YORK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the case remanded to the Court of Special Sessions of
the City of New York for appropriate action.
Numerous authorities of the Federal and state courts
sustain these contentions.
Mr. Robert S. Johnstone, with whom Mr. Charles Albert
Perkins, District Attorney, and Mr. George Z. Medale
were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion ,of the
court.
This case was argued and submitted with Heim v.
McCall, ante, p. 175, just decided. It involves the criminal feature of § 14 of the Labor Law of the State which
was the subject of the opinion in Heim v. McCall, ante,
p. 175. It provided that a violation of the section should
constitute a misdemeanor and be punished by fine or
imprisonment, or by both.
The case was commenced by information which accused
Crane, plaintiff in error, while engaged as a contractor
with -the city in the construction of a public work of such
city, by virtue of a contract entered into with the city, of
having employed three persons not then citizens of the
United States.
The public work was the construction of catch or sewer
basins.
The defense was the unconstitutionality of the law and
that it was in violation of the treaties of the United States
with foreign countries.
The treaties were put in evidence over the objection of
the prosecuting officer and a motion was made to dismiss
the information on the grounds above stated. The motion
was denied, and plaintiff in error found guilty and sentenced to pay a fine of $50, or, in default thereof, to be
committed to the city prison for the term of ten days.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The case was then appealed to the Appellate Division
of the Supreme Court and there heard with Heim v.
McCall, ante, p. 175.
The judgment was reversed. This action was not sustained by the Court of Appeals. In that court and in the
Appellate Division the cases were heard together and
decided by the same opinions, they being rendered in the
present case and the judgment of the trial court (Special
Term) affirmed, 214 N. Y. 154.
It appeared from the testimony that one of the laborers
employed was a subject of the King of Italy (the nationality of the others was not shown), and a treaty between
the United States and that country, signed February 25,

1913, was received in evidence over the objection of the
district attorney on the ground that "none of the parties
to the proceeding is a. subject of the King of Italy."
Treaties with other countries were also received in evidence. To them the district attorney objected on the
ground that none of the parties to the proceedings and
"nobody who was connected in any way with, the subjectmatter of the contract or employed in the performance
of the work" was "a subject or citizen of any of the
countries referred to."
. The provisions of the treaty with Italy are set out in
the opinion in the Heim Case and the provisions of the
other treaties are not, so far as their application is concerned, materially different.
The contentions of plaintiff in error are based on the
treaties and on the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The specifications of
error are the same, though varying in expression, as those
in the Heim Case, and there considered and declared untenable. There is added the view that a distinction made
between aliens and citizens violates the principle of classification. We think this view is also without foundation.
Judgment affirmed.

