OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

therefore will leave that question open. The issue thus
left open involves a question arising under the state law
which should be passed upon primarily by the state court.
In saying this however we must not be considered as holding that ultimate authority to review such question when
passed upon would not exist in this court to the extent
that such power to review may be essential to the enforcement of the provisions of the act of Congress in question.
Kansas City Southern Ry. v. Albers Commission Co., 223
U. S. 573, 591; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S.
246, 251; Norfolk & Western Ry. v. West Virginia, 236
U. S. 605, 609-610. See Gaar,Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223
U. S. 468, 470-471. It follows subject to the reservation
stated that the judgment below must be reversed and the
case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. GLENN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 91.

Argued December 6, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.

Although the trial court may have charged the jury that there was a
presumption, rebuttable by proof, that the damage occurred on the
line of the delivering carrier, if the court also excluded testimony
offered by defendant to show that the damage, if any, did not occur
on its line on the ground that a state statute made the delivering
carrier liable, the judgment does not rest on the independent state
ground of defendant's negligence but rests on the validity of the
statute;and if defendant properly saved the Federal question, this
court has jurisdiction to review under ยง 237, Judicial Code.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GLENN.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.,

This court having held that Congress, under its power to regulate
interstate commerce, can make an initial carrier liable to the holder
of a bill of lading for a through interstate shipment over its own and
connecting lines, even if the loss occurred while the goods were under
control of the connecting carrier, the same reasoning applies to upholding a state statute making the delivering carrier of a through intrastate shipment liable to the consignee even if the loss occurred
while the goods were under the control of another carrier. Atlantic
Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186.
Thc statute of South Carolina making the delivering carrier responsible
for damage to goods on through bills of lading in intrastate shipments is not unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment as
depriving a delivering carrier who voluntarily received the goods
from a connecting carrier of its property without due process of law.
The statute of South Carolina having been construed by the courts of
that State as not requiring a carrier to accept intrastate shipments
on through bills from connecting carriers, this court does not in this
case. determine the liability of a carrier receiving from a connecting
carrier goods in a damaged condition or the constitutionality of a
state statute making such receiving carrier liable for damage in
such event.
96 So. Car. 357, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the liability of connecting carriers under a statute of South Carolina, are-stated in the
opinion.

Mr. P. A. Willcox with whom Mr. F. L. Willcox was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joe P. Lane, Mr. L. B. Haselden and Mr. Frederick
S. Tyler for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Sections 2574 and 2575 of the Civil Code of South
Carolina (1912) provide in part as follows:
"All common carriers over whose transportation lines,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

or parts thereof, any freight, baggage or other property received by either of such carriers for through shipment or
transportation by such carriers on a contract for through
carriage, recognized, acquiesced in or acted upon by such
carriers, shall in this State, with respect to the undertaking and matters of such transportation, be considered
and construed to be connecting lines, and be deemed and
held to be the agents of each other, each the agent of the
others, and all the others the agents of each, and shall be
held and deemed to be under a contract with each other
and with the shipper, owner and consignees of such property for the safe and speedy through transportation thereof
from point of shipment to destination; and such contract
as to the shipper, owner or consignee of such property
shall be deemed and held to be the contract of each of
such common carriers;
"For any damages for injury, or damage to, or loss, or
delay of any freight, baggage or other property sustained
anywhere in such through transportation over connecting
lines, or either of them, as contemplated and defined in
the next preceding section of this act, either of such connecting carriers which the person or persons sustaining
such damages may first elect to sue in this State therefor,
shall be held liable to such person or persons, and such
carrier so held liable to such person or persons shall be
entitled in a proper action to recover the amount of any
loss, damage -or injury it may be required to pay such person or persons from the carrier through whose negligence
the loss, damage or injury was sustained, together with
costs of suit."
In Noiember, 1911, these provisions being in force,
Glenn, the defendant in error, through an agent delivered
to the Southern Railway Company at Chester, South
Carolina, a carload of cattle for through shipment to
Latta, South Carolina, on the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad. The Southern Railway accepted the cattle, issued

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GLENN.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a bill of lading for their shipment to Latta over its own
and its connecting lines, and transported them over its
own line to Columbia, South Carolina, where they were by
it delivered to and accepted by the Atlantic Coast Line
Railroad Company, by which company they were carried
under the original bill of lading to Latta and there delivered to Glenn, the consignee. There was delay in the
transit and to recover damages on account of resulting
injury to the cattle Glenn brought this suit against the
Atlantic Coast Line, alleging, conformably to the statute
above quoted, that the Southern Railway in so far as the
shipment involved was concerned, was the agent of the
defendant, and consequently asserting a right to recover
from the defendant damages resulting from the negligence
of the Southern Railway or of the defendant or both. The
defendant denied this right and sought to escape all hability by establishing that it had promptly transported and
delivered the cattle after receiving them from the Southern
Railway, that the delay, if any, had not occurred on its
line, and that by virtue of the following provision of the
contract of shipment defendant was not responsible for
any delay occurring on the line of the Southern Railway:
"That the responsibility, either as common carrier or
warehouseman, of each carrier over whose line the property shipped hereunder shall be transported shall cease as
soon as delivery is made to the next carrier or to the consignee; and the liability of the said lines contracted with

is several and not joint; neither of the said carriers shall b6
responsible or liable for any act, omission or negligence of
the other carriers over whose lines said property is or is
to be transported."
This defense was on motion of the plaintiff stricken by
the court from the answer on the ground that the provision
of the contract was void because in conflict with the statute
which we have quoted, and rulings to the same effect were

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

made during the course of the trial in excluding evidence
offered by the defendant, in refusing instructions by it
requested, and in charging the jury that the provisions
of the statute were applicable to the case and that the
,defendant was liable for damage resulting from its own or
the negligence of the Southern Railway. A judgment in
favor of the plaintiff rendered on the verdict of the jury
was affirmed by the court below which held that the statutewas rightly applied to the case and was not repugnant
to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
(96 So. Car. 357), and the correctness of that conclusion is
the question for decision on this writ of error.
. We first dispose of a motion to dismiss. It is based on
the proposition that since the court instructed the jury
that there was a presumption, which might be rebutted,
that the damage to the cattle, if any, occurred on the line
of the delivering carrier, that is, the defendant company,
the jury might have found for the plaintiff wholly irrespective of the statute, and therefore the judgment rests upon
an independent state ground broad enough to sustain it.
But the want of foundation for the proposition is manifest
when it is considered that evidence "offered by the defendant which would have a tendency to show that no damage
and no delay occurred on its line and hence tended to
rebut the presumption was excluded from the consideration of the jury by the ruling of the court that the statute
imposed upon the defendant the duty to respond to the
plaintiff for the negligence of the Southern Railway. The
motion is therefore denied.
Coming to the merits we are of the opinion that the case
is controlled by Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219
U. S. 186. In that case the constitutionality of the act of
Congress known as the Carmack Amendment to the Act
to Regulate Commerce was considered, the question
presented being whether Congress under its power to
regulate commerce could make an initial carrier liable to

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. GLENN.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the holder of a bill of lading issued by it for a through interstate shipment of property over its own and connecting
lines for a loss occurring after the property had been
delivered by it to a connecting carrier and while in the
control of such carrier. It was decided that the act was a
valid regulation of interstate commerce and hence that
no rights of the initial carrier secured by the Fifth Amendment had been violated. It is true that case involved the
power of Congress over interstate, while this concerns the
power of a State over intrastate, commerce, but the reasoning by which the conclusion as to the existence of the power
was sustained in that case compels a like conclusion with
reference to the power of a State over commerce wholly
within its borders. Indeed, in argument the controlling
force in a general sense of the Riverside Case is conceded,
but it is insisted that it can here have no application because liability is imposed by the state statute upon the
terminal and intermediate carriers as well as the initial or
receiving carrier while in the Riverside Case the liability
alone of the latter was under consideration. But it is obvious that this proposition challenges not the power but
the wisdom of exerting it, since in the nature of thiLgs the
power to constitute an initial carrier the agent of the terminal carrier is not different from the power to make the
terminal carrier the agent of the initial,carrier. Of course
we confine ourselves to the case before us and therefore
do not decide what would be the rights of the terminal
carrier if against its will it had been compelled to accept
the cattle from the initial carrier in a damaged condition or if they had never been delivered to it. These questions are not presented by the record since it is not contended that the acceptance of the cattle by the Atlantic
Coast Line was not voluntary. In fact, it is stated in the
argument of the plaintiff in error that long prior to the
shipment in question the statute had been construed by
the court below to permit the connecting carrier upon

OCTOBER TERM. 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

accepting a shipment from an initial carrier to repudiate
the original bill of lading and issue a new one. (Venning v.
Atlantic Coast Line, 78 S. Car. 42.)
Affirmed.

HADACHECK v. SEBASTIAN, CHIEF OF POLICE
OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 32. Submitted October 22, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.
While the police power of the State cannot be so arbitrarily exercised
as to deprive persons of their property without due process of law
or deny them equal protection of the law, it is one of the most
essential powers of Government and one of the least limitable--in
fact, the imperative necessity for its existence precludes any limitation upon it when not arbitrarily exercised.
A vested interest cannot because of conditions once obtaining be
asserted against the proper exercise of the police power-to so hold
would preclude development. Chicago & Alton R. R. v. Tranbarger,
238 U. S. 67.
There must be progress, and in its march private interests must yield
to the good of the community.
The police power may be exerted under some conditions to declare
that under particular circumstances and in particular localities
specified businesses which are not nuisances per se (such as livery
stables, as in Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171, and brick yards,
as in this case) are to be deemed nuisances in fact and law.
While an ordinance prohibiting the manufacturing of bricks within a
specified section of a municipality may be a constitutional exercise
of the police power--quere whether prohibiting of digging the clay
and moving it from that section would not amount to an unconstitutional deprivation of property without due process of law.
This court cannot consider the contention of one attacking a municipal
ordinance that it denies him equal protection of the laws when based
upon disputable considerations of classification and on a comparison

