SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

cation or tariffs upon which the rate is based; and it is a
necessary corollary that what should be a reasonable
charge for storage would be determined in the light of all
the circumstances, including the valuation placed upon
the goods.
We conclude that, under the provisions of the Hepburn
Act and the terms of the bill of lading, the valuation placed
upon the property here in question must be held to apply
to defendant's responsibility as warehouseman.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. HORTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 541.

Argued November 30, Decembcr 1, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

An employd who knows of a defect arising from the employer's negligence and appreciates the risk attributable thereto and continues in
the employment without objection or promise of reparation, assumes
the risk notwithstanding it arises from the employer's breach of
duty. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 504.
Where the employer promises reparation of such a defect and the employ6 relying on such promise continues, he does not, during such
time as is reasonably required for its fulfilment, assume the risk unless at least the danger is so imminent that no ordinarily prudent
man would, under the circumstances, rely upon such a promise. Id.
Where, as in the present case, the injury was caused by the absence of a
glass protector in front of a water gauge which burst, and the employ6 had continued after knowledge and promise of reparation, held
that the trial court did not err in refusing to hold as matter of law

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

that the danger was so imminent that no ordinarily prudent man
would continue the employment in reliance on the promise and that
one so continuing did assume the risk.
Reasonable reliance by an employd on a promise of reparation and continuance in his employment for a reasonable period pending performance cannot be regarded as contributory negligence as matter
of law; the request and direction of the employer has a material
bearing on the question; and so held in this case that the question
was properly submitted to the jury.
Authorities differ, and not yet decided by this court in this or prior
cases, as to whether continuing the employment in presence of danger
so imminent that no ordinarily prudent man would confront it, even
where the employer has promised reparation, amounts to assumption
-of risk or contributory negligence.
Distinctions between assumption of risk and contributory negligence
which were of little consequence when both led to the same result
become more important in cases under the Employers' Liability Act
where the former is a complete bar, and the latter merely mitigates
the damages.
Whether continuing to use one defective apparatus instead of another
apparatus amounted to proximate cause of injury, is at most a question for the jury if it be shown that the latter was not a sale instrumentality.
85 S. E. Rep. 218, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment in an action for injuries under the Employers'
Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Murray Allen for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Clyde A. Douglass, with whom Mr. William C.
Douglass was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action, based upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act (35 Stat. 65, c. 149; 36 Stat. 291, ch. 143), was
under consideration on a former occasion, when a judgment in favor of defendant in error was reversed and the
cause renanded for further proceedings. 233 U. S. 492.
There was a new trial, and the resulting judgment in favor

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Horton, the employ6, having been affirmed by the
Supreme Court of North Carolina (85 S. E. Rep. 218), the
case is brought here again, with numerous assignments of
error, of which, however, only a few need be noticed.
Plaintiff was injured while in the employ of defendant
in interstate commerce. He was an experienced locomotive engineer, and was so employed when injured. His
engine was equipped with a Buckner water gauge, a device
attached to the boiler head for the purpose of showing the
level of the water in the boiler, and consisting of a brass
frame inclosing a glass tube 12 or 14 inches long, and
2 inch in diameter, the glass being about '/8 inch thick.
The tube was placed vertically, and was connected with
the boiler above and below, so that it received water and
steam direct from the boiler and unqer a pressure of
200 pounds. In order to protect the engineer and fireman
from injury in case of the bursting of the tube, a thick
piece of plain glass, known as a guard-glass, should have
been in position in slots arranged for the purpose in front
of the water tube. Plaintiff took charge of the engine in
question on July 27 or 28, 1910, and noticed at that time
that the guard-glass was missing. He reported this to a
round-house foreman, to whom such report should properly be made, and asked for a new guard-glass. The foreman replied that he had none in stock, but would send for
one, and that plaintiff in the meantime should run the
engine without one. He did so for about a week, and
until August 4, when the water tube exploded, and the
flying glass struck him in the face, causing the injuries
upon which the action was grounded.
The principal insistence of defendant (plaintiff in
error) is that upon all the evidence plaintiff, as a matter of
law, assumed the risk of injury arising from the absence of
the guard-glass. The rule applicable to the situation was
expressed by this court upon the former review of the
case, in the following terms (233 U. S. 504): "When the

598

'

OCTOBER, TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

employ6 does know of the defect [arising from the employer's negligence], and appreciates the risk that is
attributable to it, then if he continues in the employment,
without objection, or without obtaining from the employer or his representative an assurance that the defect
will be remedied, the employ6 assumes the risk, even
though it arise out of the master's breach of duty. If,
however, there be a promise of reparation, then during
such time as may be reasonably required for its performance or until the particular time specified for its performance, the employ6 relying upon the promise does not
assume the risk unless at least the danger be so imnninent
that no ordinarily prudent man under the circumstances
would rely upon such promise."
By motions for non-suit and for dismissal of the action,
and by various requests for instructions to the jury, all
of which were refused, defendant raised the point that
although plaintiff reported the absence of the guardglass to defendant's foreman and received a promise of
repair, yet the danger was so imminent that no ordinarily
prudent man under the circumstances would have relied
upon the promise, and hence plaintiff, as matter of law,
assumed the risk of injury.
But we do not think it can be said as matter of law that
the danger was so imminent that no ordinarily prudent
man under the circumstances would continue in the
employment in reliance upon the promise. It was not
the function of the guard-glass to prevent the bursting of
the water tube, but only to limit the effect of such an
explosion in case it happened to occur. That there was a
constant danger that the tube might explode was abundantly proved, and was admitted by plaintiff. But the
tube was designed to withstand the pressure of 200 pounds,
and ordinarily did so. It was its proper function to do so.
One witness said: "They may last a day, a week, a month,
or a year, or it may last an hour, or shorter." The jury

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

might reasonably believe that such a water-glass would
probably not explode in the ordinary use of it unless it
was imperfect or defective in some respect other than the
absence of the guard-glass, and that, since there was no
evidence of this, Horton was justified in assuming that
the danger of an explosion was not immediately threatening.
There is a substantial difference in the attitude of the
employ6 towards the known dangers arising out .of defects attributable to the employer's negligence, depending upon whether there has or has not been a promise of
repair. It was clearly expressed in a well-reasoned opinion
by the Supreme Court of New Jersey (Dowd v. Erie R. R.
Co., 70 N. J. L. 451, 455) thus: "To the rule that the
servant assumes the obvious risks of the employment,
an exception is made where the master has promised to
amend the defect or. to make the place safe, and the
servant continues the work in reliance upon the promise. . . . The master is exempted from liability in
the case of obvious risks for the reason that the servant,
by continuing in the employment with knowledge of the
danger, evinces a willingness to incur the risk, and upon
the principle volenti non fit injuria.. But when the servant
shows that he relied upon a promise made to him to remedy
the defect, he negatives the inference of willingness to
incur the risk."
To relieve the employer from responsibility for injuries
that may befall the employ6 while remaining at his
work in reliance upon a promise of reparation, there
must be something more than knowledge by the employ6 that danger confronts him, or that it is constant.
The danger must be imminent-immediately threatening
-so as to render it clearly imprudent for him to confront
it, even in the line of duty, pending the promise. The
langer of the explosion of the water-glass, which normally
should withstand the pressure to which it was subjected

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

but which might probably explode at some time near or
remote, cannot be said, as matter of law, to have been
so imminent as to import an assumption of the risk by
Horton notwithstanding the employer's promise to replace the guard-glass. It would require a much plainer
case than this to justify taking the question from the
jury.
It is insisted that the trial court erred in refusing to
instruct the jury that plaintiff was guilty of contributory
negligence as a matter of law. This, also, is based upon
the ground of the obvious and imminent nature of the
danger to plaintiff arising out of the absence of the guardglass. But the reasonable reliance of the employ6 upon
the employer's promise to repair the defect is as good an
answer to the charge of contributory negligence as to
the contention that the risk was assumed. The employer's
direction or request that the employd remain at work
pending performance of the promise has a material bearing upon the employ6's duty in the meantime, and
therefore upon the question of his negligence, which involves the notion of some fault or breach of duty on his
part. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 503.
Hence, the question of Horton's contributory negligence
was at best a matter for the jury to determine.
All the disputable que~tions of fact were submitted to
the jury under instructions that were sufficiently favorable to defendant. The jury were told, in substance,
that if they found the absence of the guard-glass was
known to plaintiff, and he reported the defect and was
given a promise to repair, and if he knew and appreciated
the danger incident thereto, and the danger was so obvious that a man of ordinary prudence would not have
continued to use the water-gauge without the guardglass, then the plaintiff assumed the risk. This was
unduly favorable to defendant, in that it omitted to state
that in order to qualify plaintiff's right to rely upon the

SEABOARI) All
239 U. S.

LINE v,. HORTON.

Opinion of the Court.

promise of reparation the danger must be imminent as
well as obvious. But, besides this, we deem it proper to
say, in view of the fact that the instruction referred to
seems to have been intended to conform to our opinion
delivered upon the former writ of error, that we did not
then intend to decide whether an employ6 remaining at
work in reliance upon the employer's promise to repair
a defective appliance, but where the danger known is
so imminent that no ordinarily prudent man under the
circumstances would remain at work in reliance upon
the promise, should be held to assume the risk, or, rather,
to be guilty of contributory negligence. What we said
was that the employ6, in the situation described, "does
not assume the risk unless, at least, the danger be so imminent," etc. While most courts agree that an employ6
cannot, without impairing his right to recover from the
employer, remain at work in the presence of a known
danger so imminent that no reasonably prudent man
would confront it, even where the employer has promised
reparation, they differ as to whether this is to be placed
upon the ground of assumption of risk or of contributory
negligence. See Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213,
224, 225; Dowd v. Erie R. R., 70 N. J. L. 451, 456; Clarke
v. Holmes, 7 Hurl. & Norm. 937, 945. The distinction,
which was of little consequence when assumption of risk
and contributory negligence led to the same result, becomes important in actions founded upon the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, which in ordinary cases recognizes assumption of risk as a complete bar to the action, while contributory negligence merely mitigates the
damages, as was pointed out when the case was here
before. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S' 492, 503.
The disputable point above referred to was not thei,
presented for decision. Nor is it now presented, for upon
the last trial the court, in the instruction given to the
jury, put the plaintiff (upon the hypothesis of his per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

sisting in the face of an imminent danger, where a man
of ordinary prudence would not) in the position of assuming the risk-a position more favorable to defendant
(plaintiff in error) than that of contributory negligence.
It is further argued that Horton's own conduct in using
the Buckner gauge without the guard-glass, when he
could have cut this off, and used the gauge-cocks, said
to be an entirely safe instrumentality, was unquestionably
the proximate cause of his injury. But there was evidence to show that the gauge-cocks themselves were
not a safe instrumentality, because of their liability to
become clogged. Hence, at the utmost, there was here
no more than a question for the jury.
Other points are raised, but they are quite unsubstantial, and require no particular mention.
Judgment affirmed.

BASSO v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 143.

Argued January 6, 1916.-Decided January 17, 1916.

The rule that the Court of Claims has not jurisdiction of actions
founded on tort is based on a policy imposed by necessity that
governments are not liable for unauthorized wrongs inflicted on the
citizens by their officers, even though occurring while engaged in
discharge of official duties. Schilhnger v. UnitedStates, 155 U. S. 163.
Congress has wisely reserved to itself the right to give or withhold
relief where the claim is founded on the wrongful proceedings of an
officer of the Government. Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S.
163.
Neither Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, nor United States v.
Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, sustaining jurisdiction of the Court of Claims
in cases respectively to recover sums wrongfully exacted for taxes
and for compensation for property taken for public purposes, over-

