OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

MELLON COMPANY v. McCAFFERTY, COUNTY
TREASURER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

OKLAHOMA.
No. 27. Submitted October 22, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
Where the decree of the state court rests upon an independent nonFederal ground broad enough to sustain it, irrespective of the Federal
right asserted, this court has no jurisdiction to review under ยง 237,
Jud. Code.
Failure to resort to ample and efficient administrative remedies existing
under the state law to review assessments claimed to have been
unlawfully made, is a non-Federal ground sufficient to sustain a
judgment of the state court refusing to enjoin the collection of the
tax.
The duty to resort to an adequate remedy provided by statute cannot
be escaped by assuming that even if resorted to the wrong complained of would not have been rectified.
Writ of error to review, 38 Oklahoma; 534, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review under ยง 237, Jud. Code, judgments of the state
court where there are non-Federal grounds sufficient to
sustain it irrespective of the Federal question involved,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. A. Ledbetter, Mr. H. L. Stuart and Mr. 1. R.
Bell for plaintiff in error:
The decision of the state court is contrary to and violates
the provisions of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments.
/?aymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Cummings
v. Merchants' National Bank, 101 U. S. 153.

Under the facts alleged in its petition plaintiff in error
was entitled to equitable relief. Section 5771, Comp. Laws
Oklahoma 1909; Bardrick v. Dillon, 7 Oklahoma, 535;

MELLON v. McCAFFERTY.
239 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Art. X, ยง 5, Oklahoma Constitution; Raymond v. Chicago
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Willcot v. ConsolidatedGas Co.,
212 U. S. 19; GeneralOil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211; Chicot
v. Sherwood, 148 U. S.529; Love v. A., T. & S. F. Ry., 185
Fed. Rep. 321; Love v. A., T. & S. F. Ry., 174 Fed. Rep. 59.
Mr. Charles J. Kappler, Mr. John Embry and Mr. Sam
Hooker for defendants in error:
Where a party has taxable property, within the district, he cannot resort to equitable proceedings to obtain
relief, but must follow the methods provided by the
statutes of the State in order to procure relief; the remedy,
thus provided by the statute, was, and is, exclusive of all
others.
The assessment of property and the equalization by the
various boards were judicial acts, and being judicial in
their nature the judgment of these boards can not be collaterally attacked, but an appeal must be taken therefrom to the courts as provided by law. Hopper v. County,
143 Pac. Rep. 4; Silven v. Commissioners, 92 Pac. Rep.
604; London v. Day, 38 Oklahoma, 428; 2 Cooley on Taxation (3rd ed.), 1382, 1464; Stanley v. Board Supervisors,
121 U. S. 535; Thompson v. Brady, 143 Pac. Rep. 6;
Williams v. Bank, 38 Oklahoma, 539; Carroll v. Gerlach,
11 Oklahoma, 151; Finney County v. Bullard, 77 Kansas,
349; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Douglas Co., 76 Nebraska, 666;
Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S.591; Pittsburg &c. Ry. v. Board
Public Works, 172 U. S.32; In re West. Un. Tel. Co., 29
Oklahoma, 483, and 35 Oklahoma, 626; In re McNeal, 35
Oklahoma, 17; Fast v. Rogers, 30 Oklahoma, 289.
Plaintiff having failed to take advantage of his right
of appeal from the action of the assessor and the board,
as prescribed by statute, could not be heard in a court
of equity, for he had an adequate and complete remedy at
law, and by reason of his own negligence failed to take
advantage thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The court below affirmed a decree of the trial court
dismissing a bill filed by the plaintiff in error to enjoin
the collection of state, county and city taxes assessed
against it for the year 1910. 38 Oklahoma, 534. The
ground for relief alleged was that the assessment had been
unlawfully made as the result of an agreement between
the city assessor and the county board of equalization,
with the approval of the state auditor, that the property
of all corporations should be assessed at its true cash value
while that of all individuals should be assessed at only
sixty per cent. of its cash value. The bill alleged that
the result of the assessments so made was to give rise to
such inequality and discrimination as to make the assessment illegal under the state constitution and laws and also
to cause it to be repugnant to the equal protection and due
process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The action
of both the courts was taken in disposing of a general
demurrer to the bill and both held that the bill stated no
equity because it failed to allege that adequate administrative remedies which were provided by the state law for
the correction of the wrongful valuation complained of
had been resorted to.
As it is not disputed and indeed is from a twofold view
indisputable that the action of the court below was right
if the premise upon which its ruling was based be accepted,
that is, the existence of ample and efficient administrative
remedies under the state law and the failure to resort to
them (Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210; Johnso v. Wells, Fargo & Co., this day decided, post, p. 234)
it follows that we are without jurisdiction since under
that hypothesis the decree below would rest upon an
independent state ground broad enough to sustain it,
irrespective of the questions of Federal right asserted.

MELLON v. McCAFFERTY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But it is urged that plain error was committed by the court
below in its ruling as to the state law, since some of the
remedies, under that law which it was held should have
been resorted to for the purpose of correcting the assessment complained of were not so available. Although the
error thus complained of manifestly concerns a state
question, the argument insists that we have jurisdiction
to consider and correct it since the right to do so is inseparable from the duty to give effect to the Constitution.
We are of opinion, however, that if for the sake of the
argument the proposition be conceded and every remedy
which it insists was wrongfully decided to be available be
upon the hypothesis stated put out of view and treated as
not existing, nevertheless there remain remedies provided
by the state law embraced by the ruling below which would
cause that ruling to rest upon independent state grounds
broad enough to sustain it irrespective of the Federal
rights relied upon. The merest outline of the assessment
laws of the State will make the grounds of this conclusion
clear.
Situated in a municipality, the city assessor was the
officer primarily charged with the duty of assessing the
property in question, and that officer in conjunction with
the mayor or president of the board of trustees and the
city clerk composed a city board of equalization with
ample powers to redress all individual wrong complained
of concerning an assessment and with authority to take
steps generally to equalize assessments. Section 7616,
Compiled Laws of 1909. From the adverse action of this
board upon complaint made a right of appeal existed to
the county board of equalization composed of a majority
of the county commissioners. The powers of such board
were also ample to redress any grievance complained of.
Section 7617, Compiled Laws of 1909. In addition there
was a state board of equalization having general authority
to correct inequalities between counties; in other words,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

to redress wrongs which were more extensive in character
than those arising from the complaint of individuals as
to their particular assessments. Section 7620, Compiled
Laws of 1909. From the action of neither of these administrative bodies was there any method of review given
prior to 1910. In that year the statutes were reenacted,
the principal change being a right given to review the
action of the county board by the county court, and that
of the state board by the Supreme Court. Chapter 73,
Session Laws of 1910, p. 148, and chap. 87, id., p. 173.
The error of state law which it is insisted was committed
by the court was the ruling that the law of 1910 was in
effect for the purpose of the prosecution of an appeal as
to the assessment in question from the county board of
equalization to the county court, when in fact such remedy
could not have been pursued because when the law of 1910
went into effect the county board had completed its work
under the assessment for 1910 and had adjourned sine die.
But conceding this to be true the court below ruled that
under the act of 1910 in view of the character of the wrong
complained of as to the particular assessment in question
there was power vested in the state board of equalization
to hear complaint concerning it and hence the duty to
invoke its action and, if it was adverse, to appeal from
that body to the Supreme Court of the State-a right
which could have been availed of, as there is no contention that there was not ample opportunity to so do after
the act of 1910 was enacted and went into effect. Moreover, a like situation arises from the ruling below to the
effect that it was the duty irrespective of the reenacting
act of 1910 under the original law to have complained of
the assessment to the city board and to have appealed
from its adverse action to the county board of equalization., To avoid this difficulty in the argument it is insisted
that a resort to these remedies was not required because
they would have been unavailing in view of the nature

SUl v. McCOY.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the wrong complained of. But the duty t6 resort to
the adequate remedies provided could not be escaped by
assuming that if they had been resorted to the wrong
complained of would not have been rectified.
As it follows that under any possible view of the case
the judgment below rested upon propositions of state law
adequate to sustain it wholly irrespective of the Federal
right relied upon, it results that we have no power to
review and the writ of error must be dismissed for want

of jurisdiction.
And it is so ordered.

SUI v. McCOY, INSULAR COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 54.

Submitted November 1, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.

The Immigration and Chinese Exclusion Laws of the United States
have been carried by act of Congress to the Philippine Islands and
authorized to be there put into effect under appropriate legislation
by the Insular Government which has so done and in express terms
conferred general supervisory authority upon the Insular Collector
of Customs.
There is no conflict between the provisions of the act of Congress
carrying the Immigration and Chinese Exclusion Acts to the Philippines and the action of the Collector in referring questions relating
to the right of a Chinese person to land and to a board in which the
power was lodged to act under his supervision in matters concerning
immigration.
In this case, held that an order for deportation of a person of Chinese
descent from the Philippine Islands under the Chinese Exclusion
Act .as not improperly entered either because of abuse of power by
the Insular Collector in referring the matter to the board of inquiry

