OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

sisting in the face of an imminent danger, where a man
of ordinary prudence would not) in the position of assuming the risk-a position more favorable to defendant
(plaintiff in error) than that of contributory negligence.
It is further argued that Horton's own conduct in using
the Buckner gauge without the guard-glass, when he
could have cut this off, and used the gauge-cocks, said
to be an entirely safe instrumentality, was unquestionably
the proximate cause of his injury. But there was evidence to show that the gauge-cocks themselves were
not a safe instrumentality, because of their liability to
become clogged. Hence, at the utmost, there was here
no more than a question for the jury.
Other points are raised, but they are quite unsubstantial, and require no particular mention.
Judgment affirmed.

BASSO v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 143.

Argued January 6, 1916.-Decided January 17, 1916.

The rule that the Court of Claims has not jurisdiction of actions
founded on tort is based on a policy imposed by necessity that
governments are not liable for unauthorized wrongs inflicted on the
citizens by their officers, even though occurring while engaged in
discharge of official duties. Schilhnger v. UnitedStates, 155 U. S. 163.
Congress has wisely reserved to itself the right to give or withhold
relief where the claim is founded on the wrongful proceedings of an
officer of the Government. Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S.
163.
Neither Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, nor United States v.
Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, sustaining jurisdiction of the Court of Claims
in cases respectively to recover sums wrongfully exacted for taxes
and for compensation for property taken for public purposes, over-

BASSO v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

rules, or is antagonistic to, Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S. 163,
which is subsisting authority of this court that the Court of Claims
has no jurisdiction of an action for a claim for private injury to an
individual through the tortious act of an officer of the United States.
49 Ct. Cl. 702, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims in cases founded on a tort of an officer of the United
States, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry M. Ward for appellant:
The Court of Claims has jurisdiction over a claim ex
delicto, founded upon the Constitution of the United
States. Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222; United
States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445.
In United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333; United States
v. Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180; United States v. Emery, 237
U. S. 28, the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims has been
sustained in actions "sounding in tort" but founded upon
a law of Congress or upon an implied contract.
See also Christie Street Company v. United States, 136
Fed. Rep. 326; United States v. Hyams, 146 Fed. Rep. 15;
Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593.
The Schillinger Case has been limited, if not overruled,
by the more recent decisions of this court, cited above, and
consequently the proper construction of the Tucker Act
is that claims founded upon the Constitution or any law
of the United States are now within the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims whether based upon contract or
tort.
Irrespective of the authority of the recent decisions of
this court this contention is supported by the well-settled
rules of statutory construction.
It was manifestly the intention of Congress in enacting
the Tucker Act to give the Court .of Claims jurisdiction of
cases sounding in tort but founded'upon the Constitution.
Jurisdiction of claims upon contract the, court already

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

had, and the words founded upon the Constitution are
meaningless unless they apply to torts. See Act of
February 24, 1855, 10 Stat. 612; Act of July 4, 1864, 13
Stat. 381; Act of March 3, 1887, known as the Tucker
Act, 24 Stat. 505; and see § 1059, Rev. Stat.
-This construction of the Tucker Act, for which appellant contends, gives effect to its language but does not
extend the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to embrace
all torts committed by agents of the Government. Peabody v. United States, 291 U. S. 530, distinguished.
Ordinary torts are clearly omitted from the grant of
jurisdiction, but where officers of the Government by a
misconstruction of the law deprive a man of his liberty
in violation of his constitutional rights, his claim is founded
on the Constitution and he has the same right of redress
as those whose money was taken in payment of customs
duties under the same misconstruction of the law.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appellant is a Spanish subject who resided, at the time
his alleged cause of action accrued and at the time his
petition was filed in the Court of Claims, in the Island of
Porto Rico.
Porto Rico was ceded to the United States by the Treaty
of Paris, ratifications of which were exchanged April 11,
1899. The Island was occupied by the military forces
of the United States prior to January 1, 1899, and February 1, 1899, the President of the United States by order
promulgated the "Amended Customs Tariff and Regulations for Ports in Porto Rico," which fixed and provided
for the collection of duties upon all articles imported intc

BASSO v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Porto Rico. And duties were collected thereafter in accordance with such tariff and the amendments thereto
made from time to time until May 1, 1900.
Certain officers of the army were designated to act and
did act as collectors of customs under such tariff at the
several ports of entry in Porto Rico and enforced such tariff
upon merchandise brought into Porto Rico from the United
States and from foreign countries.
Under authority of general order No. 88 the general
commanding in the Island established a provisional court
of the United States for the Department of Porto Rico.
On or about July 13, 1899, by information filed by the
prosecuting officer of the provisional court, appellant was
charged before that court with the crime of having imported from the United States into Porto Rico certain
merchandise without having made entry of the same in
the custom house and Without having paid duty thereon.
He was arraigned, pleaded not guilty, and the case was set
for trial.
. At the trial he entered a plea that §§ 2865 and 3082 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States were without
force or effect in Porto Rico, that ,the latter was part
of the United States and that there was no warrant in law
for imposing duties on goods brought from the United
States into the Island.
The defenses were not allowed, he was found guilty,
sentenced to imprisonment and was imprisoned for
twenty-seven days.
He alleged the foregoing facts in his petition and that he
suffered damages thereby in the sum of $10,000, $7,500
general and $2,500 special damages. That he is advised
by counsel that the act for which he was accused and condemned did not then constitute a crime; that the said
sections of the Revised Statutes of the United States
under which the provisional court claimed authority to
act were not in force in Porto Rico and the court was

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

wholly without jurisdiction in the premises and its sentence was null and void, and that by reason of such
accusation, trial, conviction, sentence and imprisonment
he was deprived of his liberty without due process of law
in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Judgment was prayed for the sum of $10,000.
The United States filed a general traverse of the petition but subsequently moved to dismiss upon the ground
that the court had no jurisdiction to consider it, it presenting "an action for damages in a case sounding in tort."
The motion was sustained and judgment entered dismissing the petition for want of jurisdiction. This appeal
was then taken.
Appellant concedes that "the cause of action not merely
'sounds in tort' but is based wholly upon the tortious
actions of the agents of the United States." He, however,
contends that the Court of Claims has jurisdiction under
the Tucker Act over claims ex delicto founded upon the
Constitution of the United States. And, this, he further
contends, is supported by the recent decisions of this
court, and relies especially upon Dooley v. United States,
182 U. S. 222.
But that case did not overrule Schillinger v. United
States, 155 U. S. 163, which, counsel says, holds directly
contrary to his contention and that he has not the ingenuity to suggest how the court can now decide the case
at bar in appellant's favor without at least by implication
overruling the Schillinger Case. We are not disposed to,
overrule the case, either directly or by implication. The
court found nothing in it antagonistic to the reasoning
and conclusion reached in the Dooley Case.
In United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, the Schillinger
Case was treated as subsisting authority, and Mr. Justice
Brown, who wrote the opinion in the Dooley Case, in his
concurring opinion in the Lynah Case, considered it as
correctly declaring the law.

BASSO v. UNITED STATES.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Dooley Case and cases subsequent to it which are
relied upon by appellant concerned the exaction of duties
or taxes by the United States or its officers or property
taken by the Government for public purposes.' In such
cases jurisdiction in the Court of Claims for the recovery
of the duties and taxes or for the value of the property
taken was declared.
In the case at bar (assuming as true all that is charged)
there was a wrong inflicted, if a wrong can be said to have
been inflicted by the sentence of a court legally constituted after judgment upon issues openly framed by the
opposing parties both of fact and the applicable law,
whether that law was §§ 2865 aiid 3082 of the Revised
Statutes or the Constitution of the United States. But
conceding that a wrong was inflicted through these judicial
forms, the case nevertheless is of different character from
the Dooley Case, as was also the Schillinger Case. The
latter case passed upon the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims in actions founded on tort and declared the general
principle to be, based on a policy imposed by necessity,
that governments are not liable (155 U. S., p. 167), "'for
unauthorized wrongs inflicted on the citizen by their
officers, though occurring while engaged in the discharge
of official duties."' And it was further said (p. 168):
"'Congress has wisely reserved to itself the right to give
or withhold relief where the claim is founded on wrongful
proceedings of an officer of the government."' Gibbons
v. United States, 8 Wall. 269, 275; Morganv. United States,
14 Wall. 531, 534.
The Schillinger Case was cited in the New OrleansBelize Royal Mail v. United States, ante, p. 202, in rejection
of a contention that the United States was liable for
services imposed by their officers outside of a contract
United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333; United States v. Grizzard, 219

U. S. 180; United States v. Eirwry, 237 U. S. 28.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

239 U. S.

with the Royal Mail Company, in the performance of
which the vessel owned by the company was damaged.
We repeat, therefore, that the Schillinger Case being
subsisting authority, and appellant conceding that if
such be its value it- is controlling, further discussion is
unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

WHITE v. UNITED STATES.
FORD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 153, 154.

Argued January 7,1915.-Decided January 17, 1916.

The act of March 4, 1913, c. 148, 37 Stat. 891, granting officers of the
Navy, who had been advanced in rank, the pay and allowances of
the higher rank, applies only to officers on the active list and does
not apply to officers on the retired list who were assigned for active

service after their retirement.
In construing a statute the court will regard it as'more rational to
assume that Congress was dealing with present affairs than that
it was reopening finished transactions.
The general rule of statutes relating to duty and pay of naval officers
is found in Rev. Stat., § 1462, providing that no officer on the retired
list shall be employed in active duty except in time of war.
49Ct. Cl. 702, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of various
statutes of the United States relating -to pay of retired
naval officers while on active service, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Frederick A.

Penning, with whom Mr. Lloyd

