OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

next section recites that under § 4 the movement of a car
with defective equipment may be made within the limits
there specified without incurring the penalties, 'but shall
in all other respects be unlawful.' Whether or not the
absolute liability created by the earlier act extended to
the present case, and we are far from implying that it did
not, the Act of 1910 imports with unmistakable iteration,
that the liability exists. Under the instructions of the
court the jury must have found that the defect was the
proximate cause of the injury, as that was made a condition of the plaintiff's right to recover. If so, the fact that
the plaintiff's conduct contributed to the result was not
a defense. Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, §§ 3, 4; 35 Stat.
65, 66. Grand Trunk Western Ry. v. Lindsay, 233 U. S.
42. in view of the statutes it is unnecessary to consider
the limits to the plaintiff's authority by his instructions
from above. In any view of the evidence he was not withdrawn from the protection of the Acts.
Judgment affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. KOENNECKE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 491.

Argued November 30, 1915.-Decided December 13, 1915.

The allowance by the trial court after the testimony was in, and over
defendant's objection, of an amendment to bring the case specifically
under the Employers' Liability Act, held not to have exceeded the
discretionary power of the court, or to have been so arbitrary as to
amount to denial of due process of law.
In actions under the Employers' Liability Act, when questions of
negligence and the like are brought here only because arising in
actions under the statute and involving no new principles, this court
confines itself to a summary statement of results.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. KOENNECKE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the CoV-t.

In this case, as deceased was engaged in distributing cars from an
interstate train and clearing the track for another interstate train,
he was engaged in interstate commerce.
The possibility that a local train might before arrival at final destination where the accident occurred have dropped all interstate cars
and taken up only local cars is too remote to warrant withdrawal of a
case under the Employers' Liability Act from the jury.
On the record in this case, it would not have been proper for the trial
court to have withdrawn the case from jury on questions of defendant's negligence or plaintiff's assumption of risk.
101 S. Car. 86, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Act and the validity of a verdict of the
state court in a suit for death of an employS, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Jo Berry S. Lyles for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank G. Tompkins, with whom Mr. C. S. Monteith
and Mr. W. H. Cobb were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by the defendant in error for
causing the death of her intestate, J. T. Koennecke. The
latter was run over by a train of the plaintiff in error (the
defendant,) while acting as switchman in the defendant's
yard at Cayce, South Carolina. The declaration alleged
reckless negligence, and set out that the wife and four
children named were the only heirs and distributees of the
deceased, that they were dependent upon him for support, and that they had suffered damage to the amount of
$75,000. There was a statute in South Carolina similar
to Lord Campbell's Act and allowing exemplary damages
in the case alleged. In view of testimony brought out on
cross-examination of the plaintiff's witnesses the plaintiff
vow. ccxxxix-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

asked leave to amend so as specifically to bring the case
under the Employers' Liability Act of Congress, of
April 22, 1908, c. 149; 35 Stat. 65, the declaration as it
stood not disclosing in terms under which statute the
action was brought. If it were read as manifestly demanding exemplary damages, that would point to the
state law, but the allegation of dependence was relevant
only under the Act of Congress. The amendment was
allowed over a denial of the power of the court to allow it,
which, however, is not argued here. Central Vermont Ry.
v. White, 238 U. S. 507. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570, 576. The defendant then
objected to the trial going on. The court left it to the
counsel to say whether he was taken by surprise, and, the
counsel not being willing to say so although saying that he
was not prepared on the question of dependency, ordered
the trial to proceed. It was alleged as an error that the
requirement was contrary to the Fourteeth Amendment.
The other errors alleged concerned the sufficiency of the
evidence said to bring the case within the Act of Congress
and also the evidence touching the questions of negligence
and assumption of risk. The plaintiff got a verdict for
$22,500, and the Supreme Court of the State sustained the
judgment. 101 S. Car. 86; 85 S. E. Rep. 374.
There is nothing to show that the trial court exceeded
its discretionary power in allowing the trial to go on-still
less that there was such an arbitrary requirement as to
amount to a denial of due process of law within the Fourteenth Amendment. The court well may have considered
that the defendant was endeavoring .to get a technical
advantage, as it had a right to, but that it would suffer
no wrong. The cause of action arose under a different law
by the amendment, but the facts constituting the tort
were the same, whichever law gave them that effect, and
the court was warranted in thinking that on the matter of
dependency there was no surprise.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. KOENNECKE.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Next it is urged that there was no evidence that the
deceased was employed in interstate commerce. Upon
such matters, as upon questions of negligence and the
like, brought here only because arising in actions on the
statute and involving no new principle, we confine ourselves to a summary statement of results. The deceased
was engaged in distributing the cars from an interstate
train and clearing the track for another interstate train.
We see no ground for dispute upon this point. Ill.
Cent. R. R. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478. The suggestion that, the train that had come in being a local train,
it might have dropped all the cars that came from outside
the State and taken up others appears to us to present too
remote a possibility to warrant withdrawing the case from
the jury. See N. Y. Cent. & Hudson R. R. R. v. Carr,
238 U. S. 260.
We see equally little ground for the contention that
there was no evidence of negligence. It at least might
have been found that Koennecke was killed by a train
that had just come in and was backing into the yard, that
the movement was not a yard movement, that it was on
the main track and that there was no lookout on the end
of the train and no warning of its approach. In short the
jury might have found that the case was not that of an
injury done by a switching engine known to be engaged
upon its ordinary business in a yard, like Aerkfetz v.
Humphreys, 145 U. S.418, but one where the rules of the
company and reasonable care required a lookout to be
kept. It seems to us that it would have been impossible
to tale the case from the jury on the ground either that
there was no negligence or that the deceased assumed the
risk. Upon a consideration of all the objections urged by
the plaintiff in error in its argurhent and in its briefs, we
are of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

