GEGIOW v. UHL.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

by them under the Constitution, by refusing as prayed,
to return papers taken from them under a search warrant
and in permitting the papers over objection to be offered
in evidence. There is no bill of exceptions in the record
and nothing which enables us to lawfully ascertain the
existence of the constitutional questions relied upon.
Clune v. United States, 159 U. S. 590; Metropolitan R. R.
Co. v. District of Columbia, 195 U. S. 322; Porto Rico v.
Emanuel, 235 U. S. 251, 255.
There is nothing, therefore, before us unless there be
merit in contentions to the contrary which are pressed
and which we briefly dispose of. First: On the face of
things it is obvious that the postponing at the last term
of the consideration of a motion to dismiss was not a
decision of the question of power to review. Second:
Even indulging, for the sake of the argument only, in the
assumption of the correctness of the proposition urged
that an extraordinary discretion might exist in some extreme case to supply the entire absence of a bill of exceptions, we see no ground whatever for the premise that
this is a case of that character.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

GEGIOW v. UHL, ACTING COMMISSIONER OF
IMMIGRATION AT THE PORT OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 340. Argued October 14, 15, 1915.-Decided October 25, 1915.
The courts have jurisdiction to determine whether the reasons given
by the Commissioner of Immigration for excluding aliens under the
Allen Immigration Act agree with the requirements of the Act;

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Petitioners.

239 U. S.

and, if the record shows that the Commissioner exceeded his powers,
the alien may obtain his release upon habeascorpus.
The Alien Immigration Act by enumerating conditions upon which
aliens may be denied admission prohibits the denial of admission in
other cases.
The conclusiveness of the decisions of immigraiion officers under § 25
of the Immigration Act is conclusiveness of questions of fact; but
the court may review the findings of a Commissioner on the question of whether the alien comes uider the Act. Gonzales v. Williams,
192 U. S. 1.
An alien cannot be excluded under the Alien Immigration Act simply
because the immigration officers declare that he may become a
public charge on account of overstocked conditions of the labor
market at the point of immediate destination.
Under § 1 of the Alien Immigration Act, the ground of exclusion of
persons enumerated are permanent personal objections irrespective
of local conditions.
A phrase contained 'in a list such as that of disabilities in § 1 of the
Alien Immigration Act is to be read as generically similar to the
others mentioned before and after.
The Alien Immigration Act deals with admission of aliens to the United
.States and not to particular points of destination therein.
Where the determination of a class of questions covered by a statute
is left to the President, this court will not presume that a greater
power is entrusted by implication to subordinate officers or that
the same result can be effected under the guise of a decision.
215 Fed. Rep. 573, reversed.

THE

facts, which involve the construction of the Alien

Immigration Act and the power of the Commissioner of
Immigration to exclude aliens on the ground of likelihood of their becoming a public charge, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Max J. Kohler and Mr. Morris Jablow, with whom
Mr. Abram I. Elkus and Mr. Ralph Barnett were on the
brief, for petitioners:
Alien immigrants are entitled to -due prooess of law
under the Fifth Amendment, and under § 25 of the Immigration Law, and generally under our treaties with foreign

GEGIOW v. UHL.
239 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

countries. It is a denial of due process of law to deny
proper hearing or to order deportation on undisclosed
assumption of controverted facts and denial of opportunity to meet them, and grave irregularities on the hearing of the appeal thereon, as it is also where there is
no competent evidence whatsoever justifying an exclusion.
Even as regards matters that may be judicially noticed,
without formal proof, the matter relied upon must* be
specifically referred to on the trial, and produced, so that
the immigrant may know what is relied upon to exclude
him,
andifcan meet it by proof.
Even
boards of special inquiry have the powers
of
courts, to take judicial notice of facts which courts might
notice judicially, when properly presented before them,
still even courts cannot notice judicially such facts as are
here involved, under the authorities governing judicial
notice, especially on the basis of alleged newspaper reports, not produced or even identified.
The immigration authorities are not authorized to
exclude aliens on. the supposed ground of unfavorable
industrial conditions in the place to which they are destined, because such factor is not one vested in the immigration authorities by Congress as a justifiable ground
for exclusion, nor are the petty immigration officials competent to pass upon such uncertain and complicated,
ever-varying, conditions; nor is any satisfactory method
of apprising them of the same provided by law; nor on
the other hand, are the immigrants wedded to any particular destination, but are quite certain to go to a place
economically more desirable than their original proposed
destination, if conditions in the latter place so suggest.
Where the courts on habeas assume jurisdiction to review
an order of exclusion, they are themselves to determine
the question of admissibility, and not merely to remand
relator for a new hearing to the immigration authorities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Respondent.

239 U. S.

The Solicitor General for respondent:
Congress has power to make the fact of a favorable
administrative decision the condition of entry of aliens,
withholding from the courts jurisdiction to review the
evidence on which the decision is based.
Congress has complete power to exclude all aliens and
to determine the conditions of their entry. Lapina v.
Williams, 232 U. S. 78, 88; United States v. Ju Toy, 198
U. S. 253, 261.
The administrative determination made the condition
of entry need not be based upon a hearing at which the
alien has an opportunity to present evidence. Buttfield
v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Oceanic Navigation Co. v.
Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320; Origet v. Hedden, 155 U. S.
228.
When Congress has made a favorable administrative
decision the sole and indispensable condition precedent
to entry, and has declared an adverse decision to be final,
the courts have no power to review the evidence upon
which the latter is based. Nishimura Ekiu v. United
States, 142 U. S. 651, 660.
In the Immigration Act Congress has made the fact
of the decision by immigration officials the sole condition
of entry. The fact of the decision being established, any
inquiry into the evidence is improper.
The act by § 25 declares that the adverse administrative decision shall be final. Pearson v. Williams, 202
U. S. 281.
The statute imports that want of any sustaining evidence shall not of itself constitute a ground for judicial
impeachment of the adverse administrative decision.
The officers do not lose exclusive jurisdiction by judging
all the evidence erroneously. Chin Yow v. United States,
208 U. S. 8, 13; Harlan v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442.
Want of any sustaining evidence in the record does
not per se establish fraud or lack of good faith. Gregory v.

GEGIOW v. UHL.
239 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

White, 213 Fed. Rep. 768; Nishimura Ekiu v. United
States, supra.
Under this act the courts have no jurisdiction to review
the evidence. Fok Yung Yo v. United States, 185 U. S.
296; Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698;
Gregory v. White, supra; Lee Gon Yung v. United States,
185 U. S. 306; Lee Lung v. Patterson, 186 U. S. 175; Lem
Moon Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 538; NishimuraEkiu
v. United States, supra.
Cases under statutes providing for administrative proceedings of a different kind are not applicable. Int. Com.
Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88; Lewis v.
Frick, 233 U. S. 291; American School v. McAnnulty, 187
U. S. 94; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272.
Petitioners' contentions that they had no opportunity
to cross-examine opposing witnesses or to know the evidence against them, or to rebut opposing evidence, are
not valid.
The Immigration Act does not entitle the alien to confront and cross-examine witnesses.
The hearing provided in the act need not be such that
the alien has opportunity to know adverse evidence and
rebut it.
The evidence before the board supports their determination that petitioners were likely to become a public charge.
Auffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U. S. 310; Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U. S. 470; Chicago lRy. Co. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585;
Chin Yow v. United States, 208 U. S. 8; Coyne Publishing
Co. v. Paine, 194 U. S. 497; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96
U. S. 97; Ex parte Gregory, 210 Fed. Rep. 680; Fok Yung
Yo v. United States, 185 U. S. 296; Fong Yue Ting v.
United States, 149 U. S. 698; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S.
420; Gregory, Matter of, 219 U. S. 210; Harlan v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442; Healy v. Backus, 221 Fed. Rep.
358; Interstate Com. Comm. v. L. & N. R. R., 227 U. S. 88;
Japanese Immigrant Case, 189 U. S. 86; Lapina v. Wil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

liams, 232 U. S. 78; Lee Gon Yung v. United States, 185
U. S. 306; Lee Lung v. Patterson, 186 U. S. 168; Lem Moon
Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 538; Lewis v. Frick, 233
U. S. 291; Low Wah Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S. 460; Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S. 651; Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320; Origet v. Hedden,
155 U. S. 228; Pearson v. Williams, 202 U. S. 281.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioners are Russians seeking to enter the United
States. They have been detained for deportation by the
Acting Commissioner of Immigration and have sued out
a writ of habeas corpus. The writ was dismissed by the
District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals. 211
Fed. Rep. 236. 215 Fed. Rep. 573. 131 C. C. A. 641. By
the return it appears that they are part of a group of
illiterate laborers, only one of whom, it seems, Gegiow,
speaks even the ordinary Russian tongue, and in view of
that fact it was suggested in a letter from the Acting Commissioner to the Commissioner General that their ignorance tended to make them form a clique to the detriment of the community; but that is a trouble incident to
the immigration of foreigners generally which it is for
legislators not for commissioners to consider, and may be
laid on one side. The objection relied upon in the return
is that the petitioners were "likely to become public
charges for the following, among other reasons: That they
arrived here with very little money, [$40 and $25, respectively,] and are bound for Portland, Oregon, where
the reports of industrial conditions show that it would be
impossible for these aliens to obtain employment; that
they have no one legally obligated here to assist them;
and upon all the facts, the said aliens were upon the said
grounds duly excluded" &c. We assume the report to
be candid, and, if so, it shows that the only ground for

GEGIOW v. UHL.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the order was the state of the labor market at Portland
at that time; the amount of money possessed and ignorance of our language being thrown in only as makeweights. It is true that the return says for that.' among
other reasons.' But the state of the labor market is the
only one disclosed in the evidence or the facts that werb
noticed at the hearing, and the only one that was before
the Secretary of Labor on Appeal; and as the order was
general for a group of twenty it cannot fairly be interpreted
to stand upon reasons undisclosed. Therefore it is unnecessary to consider whether to have the reasons disclosed is one of the alien's rights. The only matter that
we have to deal with is the construction of the statute
with reference to the present case.
The courts are not forbidden by the statute to consider
whether the reasons, when they are given, agree with the
requirements of the act. The statute by enumerating the
conditions upon which the allowance to land may be
denied, prohibits the denial in other cases. And when the
record shows that a commissioner of immigration is exceeding his power, the alien may demand his release upon
habeas corpus. The, conclusiveness of the decisions of
immigration officers under §25 is conclusiveness upon
matters of fact. This was implied in Nishimura Ekiu v.
United States, 142 U. S. 651, relied on by the Government.
As was said in Gonzales v. Williams, 192 U. S. 1, 15, "as
Gonzales did not come within the act of 1891, the Commissioner had no jurisdiction to detain and deport her by
deciding the mere question of law to the contrary." Such
a case stands no better than a decision without a fair
hearing, which has been held to be bad. Chin Yow v.
United States, 208 U. S. 8. See further Zakonaite v. Wolf,
226 U. S. 272. Lewis v. Frick, 233 U. S. 291, 297.
The single question on this record is whether an alien
can be declared likely to become a public, charge on the
ground that the labor market in the city of his immediate

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

destination is overstocked. In the act of February 20,
1907, c. 1134, § 2; 34 Stat. 898; as amended by the act of
March 26, 1910, c. 128, § 1; 36 Stat. 263, determining who
shall be excluded, 'Persons likely to become a public
charge' are mentioned between paupers and professional
beggars, and along with idiots, persons -dangerously
diseased, persons certified by the examining surgeon to
have a mental or physical defect of a nature to affect
their ability to earn a living, convicted felons, prostitutes
and so forth. The persons enumerated in short are to be
excluded on the ground of permanent personal objections
accompanying them irrespective of local conditions unless
the one phrase before us is directed to different considerations than any other of those with which it is associated.
Presumably it is to be read as generically similar to the
others mentioned before and after.
The statute deals with admission to the United States,
not to Portland, and in § 40 contemplates a distribution of
immigrants after they arrive. It would be an amazing
claim of power if commissioners decided not to admit
aliens because the labor market of the United States was
overstocked. Yet, as officers of the General Government,
they would seem to be more concerned with that than
with the conditions of any particular city or State. Detriment to labor conditions is allowed to be considered in § 1,
but it is confined t6 those in the continental territory of
the United States and the matter is to be determined by
the President. We cannot suppose that so much greater
a power was entrusted by implication in the same act to
every commissioner of immigration, even though subject
to appeal', or that the result was intended to be effected
in the guise of a decision that the aliens were likely to
become a public charge.
Order reversed.

