GLENWOOD LIGHT CO. t,. MUTUAL LIGHT CO.
239 U. S.

121

Syllabus.

The District Court rightly recognized that, under Jud.
Code, § 42, formerly Rev. Stat., § 731, the offense charged
was cognizable in the District of Kansas, as well as in the
Western District of Missouri, if the place to which the

packages were transported was the place of the completion
of the offense.
Therefore nothing need be said upon that point.

Judgment reversed.

GLENWOOD LIGHT AND WATER COMPANY v.
MUTUAL LIGHT, HEAT AND POWER COM-

PANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 38. Submitted October 29, 1915.-Decided November 15, 1915.

The jurisdictional amount involved in suits for injunction to restrain
nuisance or a continuing trespass is to be tested by the value of the
object to be gained by complainant.
The amount involved in a suit brought by a telephone company to
restrain another company from so erecting poles and wires as to
injure complainant's poles, wires and business, held, in this case, not
to be the expense of defendant's removing its conflicting poles and
wires but the value of the right of complainant to maintain and
operate its plant and conduct its business free from wrongful interference by defendant.
Complainant's right to conduct its business free from the acts of defendant sought to be enjoined having an uncontroverted value of
$3,000, held that the District Court had jurisdiction under Judicial
Code, § 24, so far as jurisdictional amount in controversy is concerned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District Court under Judicial Code, § 24, and the determination of the amount in controversy in a case for injunction,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. CharlesS. Thomas, Mr. George L. Nye and Mr. William P. Malburn for appellant.

Mr. John T. Barnett for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court
dismissing a bill of complaint for want of jurisdiction;
the jurisdiction having been invoked upon the ground
that the suit was between citizens of different States, and
that the matter in controversy exceeded the sum or value
of three thousand dollars (Jud. Code, § 24; act of March 3,
1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1091). The bill, besides the
requisite averment as to the citizenship of the parties,
alleges in substance that complainant is the owner by
assignment of a franchise granted in the year 1887 by
the Town of Glenwood Springs, in the State of Colorado,
and subsequently renewed, entitling complainant to erect
and maintain a plant for the purpose of supplying the
town and its inhabitants with electric light and power;
that complainant and its predecessors prior to l911 constructed an electric light and power system, and erected
poles and wires in the alleys of the town, in the manner
provided for in the ordinance, and complainant has continued to carry on its business and supply electric current

to the town and its inhabitants, and still continues to
maintain its poles and wires in the streets and alleys of the
town; that in April, 1911, the town attempted to grant
to defendant the right to erect a plant and construct

GLENWOOD LIGHT CO. v. MUTUAL LIGHT CO. 123
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a system for furnishing the town and its inhabitants with
electric current, and defendant commenced the construction of a plant, and began to furnish light to the town on
or about October first, 1912, since which date its wires have
been used for carrying electric current for the purpose of
lighting the town and furnishing light to some of its inhabitants; that complainant's poles were erected, so far as
practicable, in the alleys of the town, as was provided in
its ordinance, and its wires were strung on those poles and
connected with the premises of its customers in accordance
with the terms of the franchise and the regulations of the
town; that defendant has erected its poles and strung its
wires principally in the alleys of the town, and particalarly
in the alleys occupied by the poles and wires of complainant, and for the most part upon the same side of the alleys
used and occupied by the poles and wires of complainant,
for the purpose and with the intent of interfering with and
harassing complainant; that complainant's poles are of
the size usually employed in towns and cities approximating the size of Glenwood Springs, but that defendant's
poles are about six feet shorter, and on account of the narrowness of the alleys have been set on practically the Same
line as complainant's poles, so that defendant's crossarms and wires are brought immediately below and in
close proximity to complainant's wires so as to make the
maintenance and operation of its wires by complainant
exceedingly difficult, as well as dangerous to the property
of complainant and its customers owing to the probability
of damage by fire caused by short circuits, and dangerous
to the safety and lives of complainant's customers and of
its linemen and other employds who in the discharge of
their duties are required to climb its poles; that, because
of this, complainant is and constantly will be threatened,
so long as defendant maintains its poles and wires as
aforesaid, with liability in case of injuries to persons and
property caused by the maintenance of defendant's wires

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

and electric current in close proximity to the wires and
current of complainant; that complainant's business is
increasing, and more wires are being constantly required
to supply the wants of its customers, and this will require
the setting of cross-bars on the poles of complainant below
the cross-bars now in use, whereby the wires of complainant will be brought closer to defendant's wires than they
are at present, and thereby the danger and expense and
the probability of injuries to complainant and its employ~s
and customers will be greatly increased; and that by reason
of the premises complainant is and will be subjected to
numerous liabilities and actions at law for damages arising out of the conditions created by defendant's acts;
that the value of complainant's plant is $150,000, and the
damage caused to complainant and its business and property and to its right to maintain its poles and wires without interference or injury in the alloys and streets of the
Town of Glenwood Springs where the poles and wires of
defendant have been placed in close proximity to complainant's poles and wires is largely in excess of the sum of
$3,000.
The prayer is for an injunction to restrain defendant
from maintaining its poles and wires on the same side of
the alleys and streets as those occupied by complainant's
poles and wires, or in such proximity as to injure or endanger the property of complainant and its customers and
the safety and lives of complainant's customers and employ~s, and for general relief.
. The answer denies, generally and specifically, the essential facts set up in the bill; denies that the matter in controversy exceeds in value the sum of $3,000; denies that
the value of complainant's plant is as much as $150,000;
alleges that its value does not exceed $25,000; denies that
the damage caused by defendant to complainant or its
business or property is in excess of $3,000; and alleges that
the cost of the removal of all the poles and wires of de-

GLENWOOD LIGHT CO. v. MUTUAL LIGHT CO. 125
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court:

fendant claimed to be in dangerous or objectionable
proximity to complainant's poles and wires would not
exceed $500.
Upon the final hearing, the court, after argument, held
that the jurisdictional amount was fixed by the cost to
defendant of removing its poles and wires in the streets
and alleys where they conflicted or interfered with the
poles and wires of complainant, and replacing defendant's
poles and wires in such position as to avoid conflict and
interference. Thereupon testimony was introduced for
the purpose of determining whether such cost would exceed the sum of $3,000, and the court, having determined
that under the evidence it would not exceed that amount
(which complainant conceded), dismissed the bill for want
of jurisdiction, although complainant contelded that such
method was not the proper method of determining the
jurisdictional amount.
The case comes here under § 238, Jud. Code, the question of jurisdiction being certified.
We are unable to discern any sufficient ground for taking this case out of the rule applicable generally to suits
for injunction to restrain a nuisance, a continuing trespass,
or the like, viz., that the jurisdictional amount is to be
tested by the value of the object to be gained by complainant. The object of the present suit is not only the abatement of the nuisance, but (under the prayer for general
relief) the prevention of any recurrence of the like nuisance in the future. In Mississippi & Missouri Railroad
Co. v. Ward, 2 Black, 485, 492, it was said: "The wantof
a sufficient amount of damage having been sustained to
give the Federal courts jurisdiction, will not defeat the
remedy, as the removal of the obstruction is the matter
of controversy, and the value of the object must govern."
The same rule has been applied in numerous cases, and
under varying circumstances. Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S.
107, 115; McNeill v. Southern Railway Co., 202.U. S. 543,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

558; Hunt v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 336;
Bittermann v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 207 U. S. 205,
225; Berryman v. Whitman College, 222 U. S. 334, 345.
The District Court erred in testing the jurisdiction by
the amount that it would cost defendant to remove its
poles and wires where they conflict or interfere with those
of complainant, and replacing them in such a position as
to avoid the interference. Complainant sets up a right to
maintain and operate its plant and conduct its business
free from wrongful interference by defendant. This right
is alleged to be of a value in excess of the jurisdictional
amount, and at the hearing no question seems to have
been made but that it has such value. The relief sought is
the protection of that right, now and in the future, and the
value of that protection is determinative of the jurisdiction.
Decree reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordancewith this opinion.

MORRIS CANAL AND BANKING COMPANY v.
BAIRD.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 1. Argued October 21, 1915.-Decided November 21, 1915.
A transfer, even though under legislative authority, of all the property
and franchises of one corporation to another does not vest the latter
with freedom from exercise of governmental power which the former
enjoyed under its charter. Rochester Railway v. Rochester, 205 U. S.
236.
An express provision in a legislative charter limiting an exemption
from taxation to such property as is possessed, occupied, and used
by the company for the actual and necessary purposes for which it

was chartered must be strictly construed under the settled rule that
transfers do not carry the exemption even though, as in this case,

