OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK OF NEW ORLEANS- v. CANAL-LOUISIANA BANK & TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 117.

Argued December 8, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

One who has no title to chattels cannot transfer title unless the owner
has given authority or is estopped, nor can he, in the absence of such
authority or estoppel, transfer title by warehousing the goods and
endorsing the receipts. If, however, the owner of chattels clothes another with apparent ownership through the possession of warehouse
receipts negotiable in form, a bona Jide purchaser for value to whom
the receipts are negotiated can be protected.
The clear import of the applicable provisions of the Uniform Warehouse Receipts Act enacted in Louisiana in 1908, is that if the owner
of goods permits another to have possession or custody of negotiable
warehouse receipts running to the latter or to bearer, it is a representation of title upon which bona fide purchasers for value may rely,
notwithstanding breaches of trust or violations of agreement on the
part of the apparent owner.
The provision in § 57 of the Uniform Warehouse Act as enacted in
Louisiana, in 1908, and as the same has been enacted i:; other States,
that the Act is to be so interpreted and construed as to effectuate
its general purpose to make uniform the law of those States which
enact it, is a rule of construction that prevents the Act from being
regarded as an offshoot of local law to be construed in the light of
decisions under former statutes of the enacting State, and requires the
statute to be construed in the light of the cardinal principle of the
Act itself.
The Uniform Acts relating to commercial affairs have been enacted in
various States for the beneficent object of unifying so far as possible
under one dual system of government the commercial law of the
country, and to give effect, within prescribed limits, to the mercantile
view of documents of title, and this principle should be recognized
in construing the acts to the exclusion of any inconsistent doctrine
previously obtaining in any of the enacting States.
Where the holder of warehouse receipts clothes another with such

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CANAL BANK.
239 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

indicia of ownership of the goods that a bona fide purchaser for value
is enabled to take title thereto, the rule that the earlier of equal
equities should prevail does not apply, as the later equities are
based upon the action of the holder of the earlier equity who is
estopped thereby.
In a controversy between claimants of goods, held that giving to another
negotiable bills of lading under trust receipts which authorized the
taker to receive the avails of the goods or the documents therefor,
so clothes the latter with indicia of ownership of the goods that the
equities of a bona fide purchaser for value of warehouse receipts obtained for the goods on the bills of lading surrendered in exchange
therefor are superior to those of the original owner of the bills of lading who had endorsed and delivered them under trust receipts which
had been violated by the party transferring to the later purchaser.
211 Fed. Rep. 337, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the determination in a bankruptcy proceeding of conflicting rights of pledgees of the
same goods represented by warehouse receipts therefor,
and the construction and application of provisions of the
Uniform Warehouse Receipts Acts of Louisiana, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Edwin T. Merrick for appellant.
Mr. Henry Mooney for appellee:
The Negotiable Warehouse Receipts Act of Louisiana
does not change fundamental principles, and one who
takes by trespass, or a finder, is not included within the
description of those who may negotiate.
The title of the cotton was vested in first pledgee.
Where titles are equal the more ancient prevails and
when equities are equal the first in point of time prevails.
The debtor cannot confer on the creditor by the pledge
any further right than he himself has.
Cases in other jurisdictions based upon statutes which
differ from the provisions of Louisiana's Code have no
bearing on this case.
Numerous authorities sustain these contentions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding. The Commercial National Bank of New Orleans
petitioned the District Court for the recovery from the
trustee in bankruptcy of certain bales of cotton alleged
to have been held by the bankrupts, Dreuil & Company,
for the account of the petitioner under trust receipts.
The Canal-Louisiana Bank & Trust Company defended,
presenting its reconventional demand based upon a claim
of superior title. The District Court entered a decree in
favor of the Canal-Louisiana Bank & Trust Company
(205 Fed.. Rep. 568), which was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 211 Fed. Rep. 337.

The controversy arises from the following transactions
which were had prior to the bankruptcy. On December 9,
1912, Dreuil & Company-holding inland bills of lading for
two lots of cotton (forty bales and sixty bales respectively)
pledged the bills of lading with the Canal-Louisiana Bank
to secure certain promissory notes for moneys advanced.
On December 13, 1912, the bills of lading were Withdrawn
from the Canal-Louisiana Bank on trust receipts, as follows:
."Received of Canal Bank & Trust Company the bills
of lading or other documents or, securities as enumerated
below, held by the said bank as collateral pledged to
secure advances made to the undersigned, and in consideration thereof, the undersigned hereby agrees to pay
over to the said bank or its assignees, and to specifically
apply against the very same advances the proceeds of
the sale of the property mentioned in the said documents;
or to deliver to the said bank or its assignees the shipping
documents or warehouse receipts representing the undermentioned goods within one day from the receipt thereof,
this delivery being temporarily made the undersigned for
convenience' only, without novation of the original debt,
or giving the undersigned any title thereto, except as

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CANAL BANK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trustee for the said bank, and except to receive the avails
thereof or the documents therefor for account of the said
bank."
Dreuil & Company, surrendering the bills of lading to
the railroad company, obtained delivery of the cotton and
sent it to a 'pickery,' where the lot of forty bales was
remade into sixty, and the lot of sixty bales into ninety.
Dreuil & Company then stored the cotton with a warehouseman, the Planters' Press, receiving two negotiable
warehouse receipts which, on December 17, 1912, they
pledged to the Commercial Bank as security for their
notes. On December 20, 1912, and December 28, 1912,
these warehouse receipts, respectively, were withdrawn
by Dreuil & Company from the Commercial Bank on
trust receipts similar in tenbr to those which had been
given, as above stated, to the Canal-Louisiana Bank.
Dreuil & Company then obtained a delivery of the cotton
from the Planters' Press; on December 31, 1912, they
were adjudicated bankrupts and temporary receivers were
appointed. It appears that sixty of the bales had been
disposed of, but the remainder of the cotton, which had
been sent by Dreuil & Company to a steamer for shipment, was recovered by the receivers and placed by them
in the Planters' Press, warehouse receipts being issuedtherefor which passed into the possession of the trustee.
Despite the changes mentioned, and remarkings (which
we need not consider), the District Court found the identity of the cotton to be established, and there is no further
controversy upon that point. Nor is it controverted that
the Commercial Bank was a purchaser in good faith for
value of the warehouse receipts negotiated to it.
We assume that under the jurisprudence of Louisiana
the transaction between Dreuil & Company and the
Canal-Louisiana Bank (described by the bank as a pledge)
created rights in the bank in the nature of ownership for
the purpose of securing its advances (Rev. Stat. of Louis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

iana, 2482; Civil Code, Arts. 3157, 3158, 3170, 3173;
Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Johnston, 117 Louisiana, 880,
889; Act 94 of 1912 (Uniform Bills of Lading Act), § 32;
and that when the Canal-Louisiana Bank entrusted the
bills of lading to Dreuil & Company for the purposes
described in the trust receipts, given to that bank, it
could still assert its title as against Dreuil & Company
and -their trustees in bankruptcy. See Clark v. Iselin,
21 Wall. 360, 368; In re E. Reboulin File & Co., 165 Fed.
Rep. 245; Charavay v. York Silk Mfg. Co., 170 Fed. Rep.
819; In re Cattus, 183 Fed. Rep. 733; Century Throwing
Co. v. Muller, 197 Fed. Rep. 252; In re Dunlap Carpet
Co., 206 Fed. Rep. 726; Assets Realization Co. v. Sovereign
Bank, 210 Fed. Rep. 156; Moors v. Kidder, 106 N. Y. 32;
Drexel v. Pease, 133 N. Y. 129; Moors v. Wyman, 146
Massachusetts, 60; Moor8 v. Drury, 186 Massachusetts,
424; Brown v. Billington, 163 Pa. St. 76; Williston on
Sales, §437. No question is presented as to the effect,
in the light of the Uniform Bills of Lading Act passed in
Louisiana in 1912 (Act 94), of an attempted negotiation
by Dreuil & Company of the bills of lading contray to
the terms of the trust receipts. See Roland M. Baker Co.
v. Brown, 214 Massachusetts, 196, 203. The bills of
lading were not negotiated; they served their purpose,
being surrendered to the railroad company on the delivery
of the goods to Dreuil & Company. The transactions
with the 'pickery' are not material to the question to
be decided. Dreuil & Company having obtained possession of the cotton, as was contemplated, placed it in
store and the question is as to the effect of the negotiation
of the warehouse receipts to the Commercial Bank.
It is a familiar rule that one who has no title to chattels
cannot transfer title unless he has the owner's authority
or the owner is estopped. See Civil Code (La.), Arts. 2452,
3142, 3145, 3146. It follows that, in the absence of circumstances creating an estoppel, one without title can-

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CANAL BANK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not transfer it by the simple device of warehousing the
goods and endorsing the receipts. But if the owner of
the goods has permitted another to be clothed with the
apparent ownership through the possession of warehouse
receipts, negotiable in form, there is abundant ground
for protecting a bona fide purchaser for value to whom the
receipts have been negotiated. Pollard v. Reardon, 65
Fed. Rep. 848, 852; Williston on Sales, § 421. The effect
of the negotiation of warehouse receipts is defined in the
Uniform Warehouse Receipts Act, enacted in Louisiana
by Act 221 of 1908. This act provides:
"SEc. 40. Who May Negotiate a Receipt-A negotiable
receipt may be negotiated"(a). By the owner thereof; or
"(b). By any person to whom the possession or custody of the receipt has been entrusted by the owner, if,
by the terms of the receipt, the warehouseman undertakes
to deliver the goods to the order of the person to whom
the possession or custody of the receipt has been entrusted, or if at the time of such entrusting the receipt is
in such form that it may be negotiated by delivery."
"SEc. 41. Rights of Person to Whom a Receipt Has Been
Negotiated-A person to whom a negotiable receipt has
been duly negotiated acquires thereby"(a). Such title to the goods as the person negotiating
the receipt to him had or had ability to convey to a purchaser in good faith for value, and also such title to the
goods as the depositor or person to whose order the goods
were to be delivered by the terms of the receipt had or
had ability to convey to a purchaser in good faith for
value; and
"(b). The direct obligation of the warehouseman to
hold possession of the goods for him according to the
terms of the receipt as fully as if the warehouseman had
contracted directly with him."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

"SEC. 47. When Negotiation Not Impaired by Fraud,
Mistake, or Duress-The validity of the negotiation of a
receipt is not impaired by the fact that such negotiation
was a breach of duty on the part of the person making
the negotiation, or by the fact that the owner of the receipt was induced by fraud, mistake, or duress to entrust
the possession or custody of the receipt to such person,
if the person to whom the receipt was negotiated, or a
person to whom the receipt was subsequently negotiated,
paid value therefor, without notice of the breach of duty,
or fraud, mistake, or duress."
It will be observed that 'one who takes by trespass or
a finder is not included within the description of those
who may negotiate.' (Report of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, January 1, 1910, p. 204.) Aside from
this, the intention is plain to facilitate the use of warehouse receipts as documents of title. Under § 40, the person who may negotiate the receipt is either the 'owner
thereof,' or a 'person to whom the possession or custody of the receipt has been entrusted by the owner'
if the receipt is in the form described. The warehouse
receipt represents the goods, but the entrusting of the
receipt, as stated, is more than the mere delivery of
the goods; it is a representation that the one to whom the
possession of the receipt has been so entrusted has the
title to the goods. By § 47, the negotiation of the receipt
to a purchaser for value without notice is not impaired
by the fact that it is a breach of duty or that the owner
of the receipt was induced 'by fraud, mistake or duress'
to entrust the receipt to the person who negotiated it.
And, under § 41, one to whom the negotiable receipt has
been duly negotiated acquires such title to the goods as
the person negotiating the receipt to him, or the depositor
or person to whose order the goods were deliverable by
the terms of the receipt, either had or 'had ability to
convey to a purchaser in good faith for value.' The

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CANAL BANK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

clear import of these provisions is that if the owner of the
goods permits another to have the possession or custody
of negotiable warehouse receipts running to the order of
the latter, or to bearer, it is a representation of title upon
which bona fide purchasers for value are entitled to rely,
despite breaches of trust or violations of agreement on
the part of the apparent owner.
It cannot be doubted that if Dreuil & Company had
pledged to the Commercial Bank the bills of lading which
they withdrew from the Canal-Louisiana Bank under the
trust receipts, the former paying value in good faith would
have had the superior right. This would have been directly within the terms of the Uniform Bills of Lading
Act (La. Act 94, 1912, §§ 31, 32, 38, 39). Roland M.
Baker Co. v. Brown, supra. See Hardie v. Vicksburg S. &
P. Ry., 118 Louisiana, 254. It seems to be contended that
the case is different with the warehouse receipts. But
it cannot be said that it was not within the contemplation
of the parties that Dreuil & Company, on obtaining the
goods from the railroad company, should put them in
warehouse and take the usual receipts. As we have
stated, we are not concerned with what happened at the
'pickery,' as the case is precisely the same, so far as the
Commercial Bank is concerned, as if the original bales
had been warehoused (without remaking) as soon as received. It was not the placing of the cotton in warehouse
in the usual course of business, but the negotiation of the
receipts, that constituted the violation of Dreuil & Company's agreement with the Canal-Louisiana Bank. By
the very terms of that agreement Dreuil & Company were
to take the position of 'trustee' for the benk with authority to receive 'the avails' of the goods or 'the documents' therefor for account of the bank and being bound
to apply the proceeds of sale to the bank's advances. And
in taking documents of title, in ordinary course, pursuant
to the agreement which was intended to facilitate the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

disposition of the cotton through Dreuil & Company, the
latter were manifestly permitted to take such documents
to their own order, as they took the bills of-lading with
which they were entrusted. To repeat, it was the negotiation of the receipts that constituted the breach of trust.
But after the Canal-Louisiana Bank had allowed Dreuil &
Company to be clothed with apparent ownership through
possession of the receipts it cannot be heard to question
the title of a bona fide purchaser for value to whom they
had been negotiated. In re Richheimer, 221 Fed. Rep. 16.
It is said that under the law of Louisiana, as it stood
prior to the enactment of the Uniform Warehouse Receipts Act, the Commercial Bank would not have taken
title as against the Canal-Louisiana Bank (Stern Bros. v.
Germania-NationalBank, 34 La. Ann. 1119; Lallande v.
His Creditors, 42 La. Ann. 705; Holton v. Hubbard, 49
La. Ann. 715; Insurance Co. v. Kiger, 103 U. S. 352; but
see Hardie v. Vicksburg S. & P. Ry., supra); and it is
urged that the new statute is but a step in the development of the law and that decisions under the former
state statutes are safe guides to its construction. We do
not find it necessary to review these decisions. It is apparent that if these Uniform Acts are construed in the
several States adopting them according to former local
views upon analogous subjects, we shall miss the desired
uniformity and we shall erect upon the foundation of
uniform language separate legal structures as distinct as
were the former varying laws. It was to prevent this
result that the Uniform Warehouse Receipts Act expressly
provides (§ 57): "This act shall be so interpreted and
construed as. to effectuate its general purpose to make
uniform the law of those States which enact it." This
rule of construction requires that in order to accomplish
the beneficent object of unifying, so far as this is possible
under our dual system, the commercial law of the country, there should be taken into consideration the funda-

COMMERCIAL BANK v. CANAL BANK.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mental purpose of the Uniform Act and that it should
not be regarded merely as an offshoot of local law. The
cardinal principle of the Act-which has been adopted in
many States-is to give effect, within the limits stated,
to the mercantile view of documents of title. There had
been statutes in some of the States dealing with such documents, but there still remained diversity of legal rights
under similar commercial transactions. We think that
the principle of the Uniform Act should have recognition
to the exclusion of any inconsistent doctrine which may
have previously obtained in any of the States enacting
it; and, in this view, we deem it to be clear that in the
circumstances disclosed the Commercial Bank took title
to the warehouse receipts and to the cotton in question.
Finally, it is insisted that whatever right the Commercial Bank might have had, if it had retained the warehouse receipts, it lost as against the Canal-Louisiana Bank
by permitting Dreuil & Company to withdraw the documents under the trust receipts which they gave to the
Commercial Bank; that is, that as the cotton came into
the possession of Dreuil & Company the equities of the
two banks are equal and the earlier equity should prevail.
We think that this contention begs the question. The
Commercial Bank did not lose its rights, by permitting
the withdrawal of its warehouse receipts under the agreement to hold for its account, any more than the CanalLouisiana Bank lost its rights merely by the withdrawal
of the bills of lading under its trust receipts. It was because the Canal-Louisiana Bank clothed Dreuil & Company with the indicia of ownership that a bona fide purchaser for value was enabled to take title; and a similar
result would have followed if, after the withdrawal of the
warehouse receipts from the Commercial Bank, there
had been a like negotiation by Dreuil & Company. But
there was no subsequent negotiation, and the Commercial
VOL. ccxxxix-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

Bank in the absence of the intervention of a purchaser in
good faith for value did not lose its rights by the agreement under which the cotton which it had duly acquired
was to be held for its account. There is no equality of
equities, for it was through the action of the CanalLouisiana Bank and the apparent ownership it created in
Dreuil & Company that the Commercial Bank was led
to advance its money upon the faith of the documents of
title.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded with
direction to enter a decree in favor of the appellant.
It is 8o ordered.

UNITED STATES v. ROSS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 131. Argued December 10, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
An army regulation can have force only so far as it may be deemed to
be in accord with the Acts of Congress.
Qucsre whether § 1235, Rev. Stat., was intended to preclude a recovery
by an enlisted man of extra duty pay where the detail of extra duty
was by competent authority but not in writing and the extra duty
was actually performed.
Under the Hospital Corps Act of March 1, 1887, c. 311, 24 Stat. 435,
and the Army Regulations 1433, 1435, 1436, members of the Hospital Corps are required to perform, for stated pay, all duties properly
incident to the conduct of hospitals as efficient institutions including
maintenance of telephone and telegraph office when necessary in the
judgment of the military authorities.
Whether maintenance of a telephone and telegraph office in a military
hospital is necessary calls in the first instance for judgment of the
Department; and, in the absence of clear abuse of necessary official
discretion, this court will not overrule the judgment of the Department that it is a necessary part of the maintenance of the hospital

