OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

CHICAGO & ALTON RAILROAD
WAGNER.

239 U. S.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 375.

Submitted November 29, 1915.-Decided December 20, 1915.

Section 5 of the Employers' Liability Act has no application to releases
given to those who are not employers. Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio
R. R., 237 U. S. 84.
Where one of two carriers, joint tort feasors, is the employer and obtains from an employ6 who was injured in interstate commerce a
release which is invalid under § 5 of the Employers' Liability Act,
there is no denial of Federal right by a state court in holding that
such release is also invalid as against the other joint tort feasor and
does not operate to release the latter from liability beyond the right
to set off the amount contributed by the employing carrier to the
amount recovered by the plaintiff.
265 Illinois, 245, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of § 5 of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908, and
the validity of a judgment for damages for injuries of a
railroad employ6, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Silas H. Strawn, Mr. Edward W. Everett and Mr.
T. Sidney Condit for plaintiff in error:
Section 5 of the Employers' Liability Act is inapplicable
in this case because plaintiff was not an employ6 of defendant. Nor does that section invalidate a release, resultant to a joint tort feasor from the acceptance of relief
benefits under a relief contract. Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio
R. R., 237 U. S. 84; Mo., Kan. & Tex. Ry. v. West, 232
U. S. 682.
The misapplication of § 5 of the Employers' Liability
Act and the denial of plaintiff's asserted construction
thereof, present a Federal question giving this court juris-

CHICAGO & ALTON RY. v. WAGNER.
239 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

diction. Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 499;
St. Louis, I. M. & So. Ry. v. McWhirte, 229 U. S. 265;
St. Louis & I. M. Ry. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 292; Seaboard Air Line v. Tilghman, 237 U. S. 487; Toledo, St. L.
& West. R. R. v. Slavin, 236 U. S. 454; Seaboard Air Line
v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668; Southern Ry. v. Crockett, 234
U. S. 725; M., K. & T. Ry. v. West, 232 U. S. 682; Nutt v.
Knut, 200 U. S. 12, 19; McCormick v. Market Bank, 165
U. S. 538; El Paso N. E. Ry. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87;
Straus v. Am. Publishers' Assn., 231 U. S. 22; Houston &
Tex. Cent. R. R. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66, 77; Buel v. Van
Ness, 8 Wheat. 311, 321; Mathews v. Zane, 4 Cranch, 381.
Where the highest court of the State assumes that the
record sufficiently presents for its decision, a question of
Federal right, this court will take jurisdiction. Mallinckrodt Chemical Works v. Missouri, 238 U. S. 41; Chambers v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 207 U. S. 142, 148; San Jose
Land Co. v. San Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177; Haire v.
Rice, 204 U. S. 291; Home for Incurables v. New York,
187 U. S. 157; Mo., Kan. & Tex. Ry. v. Elliott, 184 U. S.
530.
Mr. James C. McShane for defendant in error:
The state court's holding that plaintiff's acceptance
of benefits from the Burlington relief department did
not operate as a release, or satisfaction, to defendant,
does not present a Federal question.
The release in question was void under § 5, as between
plaintiff and the C., B. & Q., and the real question is as
to whether, being void as btween the parties to it, it could
operate as a valid release to defendant.
This is a common-law question, which depends upon
the application, or non-application, of the common-law
rule, that a release to one joint tort feasor operates as a
release to all joint tort feasors, and hence, is not a Federal question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Assuming, for sake of argument, that the question is a
Federal question, and that it was especially set up or
claimed, etc., it was not erroneously decided.
The release was void as between the parties to it, and,
consequently, it could not operate as a valid release to
defendant. McMullen v. Hoffman, 174 U. S. 654; 6 Ruling Case Law, § 215, p. 819.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
Joseph M. Wagner brought this action in the Superior
Court of Cook County, Illinois, against the Chicago &
Alton Railroad Company to recover damages for injuries
alleged to have been sustained through its negligence.
At the time of the accident, he was employed by the
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company as a
conductor in charge of a switching crew and was engaged
in moving cars over a track of the Chicago & Alton Railroad Company in Chicago,-the track being used by the
Burlington company under an arrangement with the
Alton company. He was injured by striking a semaphore
post which, as he alleged, was in dangerous proximity
to the track. The Burlington company was not a party
to the suit. In defense, the Alton company proved that
Wagner was a member of the relief department of the
Burlington company, to which the employ6s of that company made monthly contributions, and that in his agreement with that company it was provided that his acceptance "of benefits for injury" should operate "as a
release and satisfaction of all claims against said company,
and all other companies associated therewith in the administration of their relief departments, for damages
arising from or growing out of said injury." The Alton
company was not thus associated with the Burlington
company, and the release by its terms did not run to it.
But it was insisted that the Burlington company was a

CHICAGO & ALTON RY. v. WAGNER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

joint tort feasor with the Alton company and hence
that release to the former would operate to discharge the
latter. It *as found by the state court that after theinjury Wagner had accepted from the relief fund of the
Burlington company the sum of $1,231 as benefits, and
that there had been paid in his behalf for hospital bills,
etc., $1,349.59; and it was further found that the contribution of the Burlington company did not exceed
fifteen per cent. of this amount, or $387.09. In rebuttal
(and over the defendant's exception) Wagner introduced
evidence that at the time of the accident he was engaged
as the employ6 of the Burlington company in interstate
commerce, and he contended that the agreement for the
release of that company through acceptance of benefits
from the relief fund was invalid under § 5 of the Employers' Liability Act. The trial court refused to give a peremptory instruction in favor of the Alton company and
also denied a request to instruct the jury, in substance,that if it found that Wagner had accepted payment from
the Burlington company in satisfaction of his claim against
that company arising from the injury, such acceptance
would be a bar to this action against the Alton company.
The court did charge that if the Alton company was found
guilty, it should not be credited with any sum which the
Burlington company had paid. To these rulings the Alton
company excepted. A verdict was rendered against it for
$15,000, and judgment was entered accordingly. The
Appellate Court, First District, required a remittitur of
$387.09, the amount found to have been contributed by the
Burlington company to the benefits received, and affirmed
the judgment for the remainder. 180 Ill. App. 196. And
the judgment for the reduced amount was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. 265 Illinois, 245.
The jurisdiction of this court is invoked upon the
ground that, in refusing to give effect to the release, the
state court miscontrued § 5 of the Employers' Liability

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Act.' St. Louis & Iron Mountain Rwy. v. Taylor, 210 U. S.
281, 293; St. Louis & Iron Mountain Rwy. v. McWhirler,
229 U. S. 265, 275.
The action was not brought under that act. There were
allegations in the' original declaration to the effect that
Wagner at the time of the injury was engaged in interstate commerce as an employ6 of the Burlington company, but it seems to have been agreed upon the trial that
the action was not governed by the Federal statute; and
this indeed was manifest, as the Burlington company was
not a party to the action and the Alton company was
not the plaintiff's employer. Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio
R. R., 237 U. S. 84, 91. It was tried as a common-law
action on the case.
It was also undisputed that the Alton company was not
a party to the contract for release or associated in the
Burlington's relief department. Section 5 of the Federal
act has plainly no application to releases given to those
who are not employers (Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio R. R.,
supra) and we do not understand that there was any contention or ruling to the contrary in the state court. The
Alton company simply claimed the benefit of the release
to the Burlington company upon the ground that the
Burlington company was a joint tort feasor. But the rule
invoked, that the release of one joint tort feasor is a release
of all, is a rule of the common law,-in this case of the
IThis section is as follows, Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65,
66:
"SEc. 5. That any contract, rule, regulation, or device whatsoever,
the purpose or intent of which shall be to enable any common carrier to
exempt itself from any liability created by this Act, shall to that extent
be void: Provided, That in any action brought against any such common carrier under or by virtue of any of the provisions of this Act, such
common carrier may set off therein any'sum it has contributed or paid
to any insurance, relief benefit, or indemnity that may have been paid
to the injured employ6 or the person entitled thereto on account of
the injury or death for which said action was brought."

CHICAGO & ALTON RY. v. WAGNER.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

common law of Illinois. Chicago v. Babcock, 143 Illinois,
358, 366. That is, assuming that the Burlington company
was the employer and that the contract for its discharge
from liability for this injury through the acceptance of
benefits from its relief department was invalid under § 5
of the Employers' Liability Act, the question whether
that release, thus invalid as against the Burlington company, would operate to discharge the Alton company as a
joint tort feasor from its common-law liability was not,
and we do not find that it was held to be, a matter of
Federal law. The Supreme Court of the State said upon
this point, after stating that there was no valid release
to the plaintiff's employer: "If it" (the release) "was not
valid so far as the Burlington company was concerned,
it was clearly invalid as to the plaintiff in error and constituted no defense to this action." This, as we view it,
was but to say that the release could not aid the Alton
company for the very plain reason that the alleged joint
tort feasor had not been discharged. The state law did
not recognize the discharge of the defendant by virtue of
a release of a joint tort feasor which, under the law applicable thereto, was found to be without validity.
The only Federal question which it can be said was decided was with respect to the validity of the release as
between Wagner and the Burlington company. It is
urged that § 5 was wholly inapplicable in an action brought
against a third person to enforce a liability not created
by the Federal act. The argument is, in substance, that
in this action against the Alton company, inasmuch as it
is not brought to enforce the liability imposed by the
Federal statute, § 5 cannot be considered for any purpose;
that is, that under § 5 the release can be deemed to be
invalid only so far as it is actually used to protect the
Burlington company from liability in a suit against it
under the act. This involves, we think, a fundamental
misconception. It is, of course, impossible to determine

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

whether a joint tort feasor is discharged except by asking
what would happen if he were sued. The liability created
by the act arose when the injury was received, and it"is
clear that if it was received while Wagner was engaged
in interstate commerce, his acceptance of benefits under
the relief. contract. would not bar an action against his
employer. Phila., Balt. & Wash. R. R. v. Schubert, 224
U. S. 603, 613. When, therefore, the Alton company
sought to escape from liability, otherwise existing under
the state law, by reason of a release to the Burlington
company, it was entirely competent for the plaintiff to
show the nature of his employment and that the asserted
release was within the Federal statute and could not
operate as a discharge of the Burlington company with
respect to the injury sustained. And the state court
found upon abundant evidence that Wagner was engaged
as an employ6 of that company in interstate commerce
when he was hurt.
There was thus no misconstruction of the Federal act
in holding that the contract between Wagner and the
Burlington company, and his acceptance of benefits thereunder, did not release the latter from liability for the injury and that under § 5 that company, assuming it to be a
joint tort feasor, would merely have the right to set off
any sum which it had contributed to the benefits received;
and there was no denial by the state court of any Federal
right in declining to treat the relief contract, and the
acceptance of benefits, as a discharge of the Alton company.

Judgment affirmed.

