MANILA INVESTMENT CO. v. TRAMMELL.
239 U. S.

31

Statement of the Case.

to come to this court from Arizona in other than the
usual form.

Therefore in any event this appeal would

have to be dismissed. To meet this possibility a writ of
error was allowed at the last moment. We have considered
the record as if made up under the writ. But apart from
technical objections that have been urged the only question that would be open is whether the judgment below
was ihconsistent with the opinion of this court, and as it
very plainly is not, there is no reason for disturbing it.
Our mandate was not concerned with the allowance of
attorneys' fees and some other matters that were argued,
and therefore they present no Federal question and need
not be considered.
Appeal dismissed.
Judgment affirmed.

MANILA INVESTMENT COMPANY v. TRAMMELL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 250. Motion 'to affirm or dismiss submitted October 12, 1915.-Decided November 1, 1915.
Mere breach of contract on the part of state officers does not amount
to a taking of plaintiff's property without due process of law in violation of' the Fourteenth Amendment.
Where the allegation of the bill relied on to give jurisdiction shows mere
breach of contract on the part of state officers the case does not
present a real and substantial controversy involving the construction or effect of the Federal Constitution and the District Court
does not have jurisdiction on that ground.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District
Court of the United States in cases involving constitutional questions, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill and Mr. Arthur F. Odlin for
appellants in opposition to the motion.
Mr. Thomas F. West, Attorney General of the State of
Florida, Mr. E. J. L'Engle and Mr. P. H. Odom for appellees in support of the motion.

Memorandum opinion by MR.

JUSTICE DAY,

by direc-

tion of the court.
This case was begun in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Florida, upon a bill
praying to have the title to certain lands decreed to be
held in trust for complainant by the Board of Trustees of
the Internal Improvement Fund of Florida, and to recover
lands deeded to others but likewise held in trust for complainants. The court below dismissed the bill for want of
jurisdiction.
An examination of. the bill shows that the ground of
recovery rests upon the allegation that the trustees contracted to convey the lands in question to the complainants, and afterwards, by formal resolution, the Board
repudiated its former action, and refused to recognize
the alleged trust, and. declared the complainants' title
null and void. Complainants contend that this action by
the trustees, as an agency of the State, in repudiation of
its former action and the conveyance of part of the land
to others in violation of the trust, constituted a taking of
its property without due process of law, in violation of the
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. This is the
only ground of Federal jurisdiction insisted upon.
The case presented no real and substantial controversy
involving the construction or effect of the Federal Constitution. The allegations relied upon to give jurisdiction
show a breach of contract merely and bring the case within
the principles decided by this court in St. Paul Gas Light

TRUAX v. RAICH.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

Co. v. St. Paid, 181 U. S. 142; Dawson v. Columbia Avenue
&c. Co., 197 U. S. 178; Shawnee Sewerage Co. v. Stearns,
220-U. S. 462; McCormick v. Oklahoma City, 236 U. S. 657.
Affirmed.

TRUAX AND THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
THE STATE OF ARIZONA v. RAICH.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA.

No. 361.

Argued October 15, 1915.-Decided November 1, 1915.

A suit against officers of the State who are about to proceed wrongfully to complainant's injury in enforcing an unconstitutional statute
is not a suit against the State within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment.
While, generally speaking, a court of equity has no jurisdiction over
prosecution, punishment or pardon of crimes or misdemeanors,
equity may, when such action is essential to the safeguarding of
property -rights, restrain criminal prosecutions under unconstitutional statutes.
The right to earn a livelihood and to continue employment unmolested
by efforts to enforce void enactments is entitled to protection in
equity in the absence of an adequate remedy at law.
The fact that an employment is at the will of the employer and employ6
does not make it one at the will of others, and unjustified interference
of third parties is actionable although the employment may be at will.
Although a statute may only render an employer liable to prosecution,
if it-operates directly upon the employment of the employ6 and its
enforcement would compel the discharge of an employ6, the latter is
affected directly, has no adequate remedy at law, and if the statute is
unconstitutional, is entitled to equitable relief.
An alien admitted to the United States under the Federal law has not
only the privilege of entering and abiding in. the United States but
also of entering and abiding in any State, and being an inhabitant
of any State entitles him, under the Fourteenth Amendment, to the
equal protection of its laws.

VOL. ccxxxix-3

