HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

riages heretofore contracted under the laws or tribal customs of any Indian Nation now located in the Indian
Territory are hereby declared valid and the issue of such
marriages shall be deemed legitimate and, entitled to all
inheritances of property or other rights, the same as in
case of the issue of other forms of lawful marriage.
"
It will be observed that the asserted marriage between
Porter and the mother of plaintiff took place in 1893, that
is, subsequent to the act of 1890 organizing the Territory
of Oklahoma, and therefore was not a marriage within
the meaning of § 38, theretofore contracted, and therefore
plaintiff's reliance must be upon the provision, before
stated, in § 5 of the act of 1891. As that section was
expressly restricted to lands allotted under § 5 of the act
of 1887, and as the lands occupied by the Creeks in the
Indian Territory could not be and were not allotted under
the latter section, it follows that the provision relied upon
had no application to the lands here in question, they
being part of the territory so occupied by the Creeks.
Judgment affirmed.

HEIM v. McCALL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 386.

Argued October 12, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.

The highest court of the State not having commented on the question
of right of plaintiff as a taxpayer to maintain the action although

the same was raised, this court may-even not required so to doassume that the right existed.
It belongs to the State, as guardian and trustee for its people, and
having control of its affairs, to prescribe the conditions upon which

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

it will permit public work to be done on its behalf, or on behalf of
its municipalities. Atkins v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207.
No court can review the action of the State in regard to prescribing
conditions upon which its public works shall be done,as regulations
in that respect suggest only considerations of policy with which the
courts have no concern. Atkins v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207.
This court must follow the decisions of the state court that a provision
of its general laws in regard to employment of labor on public work
applies to its municipalities and to the particular work involved.
In this case, held that neither the municipality, nor its contractors
nor a taxpayer on its behalf, could assert the rights of an individual,
proprietary in character, as against the State itself in determining
who should be employed on public work authorized by the State
itself.
The equality of rights assured by Articles I and II of the Treaty of 1871
with Italy is in respect of protection and security for person and
property.
The provisions in § 14 of the Labor Law of 1909 of New York, that
only citizens of the United States shall be employed on public works
and that preference shall be given to citizens of that State is not
unconstitutional under the privilege and immunities clause of the
Constitution of the United States or under the equal provision or
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment thereto, or as
violative of the Treaty of 1871 with Italy.
214 N. Y. 629, affirmed.

BILL in equity to restrain the Public Service Commission for the first district of the State of New York from
declaring certain contracts for the construction of portions
of the rapid subway system of the City of New York void
and forfeited for violation of certain provisions inserted
in the contracts in pursuance of § 14 of the Labor Law (socalled) of the State. Laws 1909, ch. 36, Consol. Laws,
ch. 31. Itreads as follows:
"Section 14. Preference in employment of persons upon
public works.-In the construction of public works by
the State or a municipality, or by persons contracting
with the state or such municipality, only citizens of the
United States shall be employed; and in all cases where
laborers are employed on any such public works, prefer-

HElM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

erence shall be given citizens of the State of New. York.
In each contract for the construction of public works a
provision shall be inserted, to the effect that, if the provisions of this section are not complied with, the contract
shall be void.

,, 1

It is provided that a list of contracts theretofore made,
with the names and addresses of the contractors, shall be
filed in the office of the Commissioner of Labor, and when
new contracts are allowed the names and addresses of
such new contractors shall likewise be flied and, upon
demand, each contractor shall furnish a list of subcontractors in his employ. Each contractor is required to
keep a list of his employ6s which shall set forth whether
they are naturalized or native born citizens of the United
States. A violation of the section is made a misdemeanor.
The case went off on demurrer and it is therefore necessary to give a summary of the bill, which we do in narrative form, as follows:
Heim is a property owner and taxpayer of the State of
New York. The defendants are the acting Public Service
Commissioners for the First District of the State 6f New
York and have been constituted and are the Public
Service Commission of that district.
The Board of Rapid Transit Railroad Commissioners
for the City of New York under the laws of the State
(referred to as the Rapid Transit Act) in 1896 laid out
and established a route for said railroad in the city,
which was subsequently constructed, equipped and op'Section 14 of the Labor Law was amended by act of March I,
1915, ch. 51, Laws of New York, 1915, as follows:
"SECTioN 14. Preference in employment of persons upon public
works.-In the construction of public works by the State or a municipality, or by persons contracting with the State or such municipality,
preference shall be given to citizens over aliens. Aliens may be employed when citizens are not available. .
"

VOL. CCXXxix--12

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S,

erated. Afterwards other routes were established, constructed, equipped and operated.
These routes were located in the boroughs of Manhattan and the Bronx and Brooklyn, and since 1912 and
prior thereto have been leased and operated by the Interborough Rapid Transit Company, referred to as the
Interborough Company. There has been a like lease of
roads in Brooklyn by the Consolidated Railroad Company,
called the Brooklyn Company.
The Board of Rapid Transit Commissioners,
acting
under the laws of the State, decided that, other rapid
transit railroads were necessary, and determined and established routes and the. general plans for the construction thereof.
The lines are described and respectively called Interborough lines and Brooklyn lines.
The Board and the Public Service Commission contemplated that such extension and additions would form,
with the existing Interborough and Brooklyn lines, a complete and comprehensive rapid transit system for the
accommodation of the entire city. And the construction
of such roads was deemed and was and has been an imperative necessity for the comfort and convenience of
the residents and taxpayers of the city.
The cost of construction of such new roads was upwards
of $235,000,000 and their equipment $44,000,000. The
city had no available money and could not borrow the
necessary moneys for a large part of such construction or
equipment without exceeding its legal and constitutional
debt limit by many million dollars.
To utilize the old with the new systems upon a 5-cent
fare basis and to overcome the difficulties and delays for
lack of funds and accomplish the early construction and
operation of the system on the best possible terms for the
city, negotiations were entered into between the Public
Service Commission and the city authorities on the one

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U.S.

179

Statement of the Caae.

part and the Interborough Company and the Brooklyn
Company on the other part with a view of formulating and
entering into contracts with the companies. for the provision of funds for the construction and operation of
roads.
A form of contract was finally agreed upon and a contract was duly signed, executed and delivered by the
Interborough Company on the one part and the Public
Service Commission in behalf of the city on the other
part, on or about March 19, 1913.
As a result of the negotiations another contract was
entered into with the New York Municipal Railway
Company, which had been formed in the interest of the
Brooklyn Company, whereby the latter company agreed
to contribute toward the cost of construction and equipment and to lease and operate a portion of the roads in
conjunction with the then existing system. There is an
enumeration of the provisions of the contracts and the
amounts to be contributed by the companies and for the
lease of the routes.
The contracts were made a part of the public records
and approved by the Board of Estimates and Apportionment and other proper authorities before execution.
The Public Service Commission has let and awarded
each of the contracts for construction of the new routes
and the Interborough Company became a party to many
of them for the purpose stated in the contracts, that is,
"solely for the purpose of paying out a part of its contribution towards the cost of construction of the said
respective routes."
The new routes were duly approved by the proper authorities and the Public Service Commission in accordance
with the general plan of the routes, either obtaining the
consent of the property owners along the routes or, failing
to obtain such consent, having commissioners appointed
by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court to deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

mine and report whether the routes were to be constructed
and operated according to the plans adopted. The commissioners reported favorably and their report was confirmed by the court, and the general plans "thereafter
constituted and now are the routes and general plans of
the so-called Dual System of Rapid Transit Railroads
herein referred to."
In pursuance of the Rapid Transit Act the Public Service Commission prepared plans and specifications for the
construction of the major portion of said routes in accordance with the general plans, and thereafter, before
awarding any contract, advertised for proposals in the
form of an invitation to contractors and in compliance
with the Rapid Transit Act and the acts amending and
supplementing it.
Bids were duly made and contracts duly awarded and
approved by the proper authorities.
Each of the contracts contained the following provisions:
"In obedience to the requirements of section 14 of the
Labor Law, it is further provided that if the provisions
of said section 14 are not complied with, this contract
shall be void." A provision in identical language was
contained in the invitation to bidders.
The requirement (it is alleged) both in the proposals
and contracts is unconstitutional, void and of no effect,
in that it is in conflict with § 2 of Article IV of the Constitution of the United States (that is, "The Citizens of
each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States") and with § 1 of
Article XIV of the amendments to the Constitution, and
with other sections and provisions; also in violation of
the constitution of the State and in conflict with the
treaty between the United States and Italy and various
other treaties which contain "the Most Favored Nation
Clause "-in other words, providing that the citizens of
such countries shall enjoy all the privileges, rights and

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

immunities which the citizens of countries most favored
in any existing treaty with the United States enjoy.
All of the contractors promptly made the necessary
preparations for the execution of their contracts and all
are in the process of performance at different stages, some
of them having been performed to the extent of 75% and
all performed to a very large extent. In no instance are
any of the contractors in default.
In the course of construction each of the contractors
has constantly employed and now employs a large number
of laborers and mechanics who are residents of the city
of New York but who were born in Italy and are subjects
of its King, and also employed laborers who, though citizens of the United States, were not citizens of New York,
and did not give preference to citizens of the State of
New York over such laborers so employed who were not
citizens of the State but citizens of the United States.
At the time of the proposals it was known to be and is
necessary to employ a large number of such subjects of
the King of Italy and citizens of other States and of other
countries to perform said contracts within the time and
at 'the prices stated in order to keep the construction and
equipment of the Dual System within the total amount
provided and specified in the contracts and plans.
The treaty between the United States and Italy of
1871 provides that the subjects of the King of Italy residing in the United States shall have and enjoy the same
rights and privileges with respect to persons and property
as are secured to the citizens of the United States residing
in the United States.
At no time since the letting of such contracts has thgre
been available a sufficient force or number of laborers,
citizens of the United States or of the State of New York,
to perform the work in accordance with such contracts;
and no question was raised until a few days since of the
right of the contractors to employ alien laborers, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

the contractors believed that they had a right to do, and
they regarded the provision of the law and of the contract
prohibiting the same as in effect null and void.
Within the past ten days complaint has been made to
the Public Service Commission of the violation of the
law and the alien labor provision in the contracts, and the
Commission has threatened to refuse to approve further
monthly estimates of amounts payable to contractors,
thus depriving them of the means of prosecuting the work
and the right to perform the same; indeed, have refused
to approve certain monthly estimates, and, unless enjoined,
will declare such contracts void and terminate the same.
The termination of the contracts will result in irreparable loss and damage and waste of money to the city, the
work will be delayed or not done or the cost will be
enormously increased because the supply of labor will be
diminished, resulting necessarily in the diminution of
labor available for the work which will greatly protract
the same; and litigation with the contractors will be
caused. Also damage will result because of the fact that
a large percentage of capital and money necessary for
the work is supplied by third parties under contract with
the city to supply the same, which contracts were based
upon.estimates made in advance, and said contracts may
be invalidated and the purpose for which they were made
defeated.
The total capital to be supplied was $250,000,000, of
which the said third parties agreed to supply $115,000,000
and the city the balance. If the contracts be declared
void the capital so to be supplied will be inadequate for
the work and the money already supplied by the city
and the said third parties will have been wasted.
Injunction is prayed against declaring the contracts
void and forfeited and refusing to prepare and certify
vouchers of the amount of monthly estimates for work
done.

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

There was a demurrer to the bill, which was sustained
by the Supreme Court, and injunction denied. The
judgment was reversed by the Appellate Division and
an injunction ordered, which action was reversed by the
'Court of Appeals and the bill ordered dismissed. 214
N. Y. 629.
Mr. Thomas F. Conway for plaintiff in error:
This action is properly brought by plaintiff as a taxpayer, to prevent threatened illegal acts of the defendant
Public Service Commission to cancel contracts aggregating over $100,000,000 made by the city for the construction of subways, and to prevent the loss and damage
that would result to the city if such contracts were canceled. General Munic. Law, §51; Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1925; Charter of City of New York, § 59.
Section 14 of the State Labor Law, prohibiting the employment of aliens upon public works and requiring that
preference be given to citizens of the State over those of
other States, is void as offending against both constitutional provisions and existing treaties.
The power granted to the city by statute, in the exercise of which it is constructing the subways, constitutes
it a private railway corporation and in their construction
and operation it is exercising no governmental function.
It is made by statute both proprietor and owner of the
road. Rapid Transit Act, ch. 4, N. Y. Laws 1891, as
amended; Re Rapid Transit Commissioners, 197 N. Y. 81.
The State has no interest in the moneys which the city
was required to provide for the construction of such subways, nor has the State any power to control the city in
its expenditures.

The city possesses the same unre-

stricted right, both in the selection of its employ4s and
to contract as would a private corporation or private individual engaged in a similar business. It is not acting
as the agent of the State. See statute and case cited. Also

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

239 U. S.

People v. Detroit, 28 Michigan, 227; People v. Ingersoll,
58 N. Y. 1; People v. Fields, 58 N. Y. 491; Insurance Co.
v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Hunter v. Pittsburgh, 207 U. S.
161, 179.
Section 14 of the Labor Law, therefore, which as enforced deprives it of both such rights, is plainly in violation of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Hunter v. Pittsburgh,
207 U. S. 161; Dartmouth College v. Woodwgrd, 4 Wheat.
517; New Orleans v. Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 79; Loan
Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 654.
Section 14 is also invalid because it deprives the contractors with the city of freedom of contract guaranteed
by the Constitution and of property rights by forfeiting
their contracts for noncompliance with its provisions.
Cases supra and Hurtado v. People, 110 U. S. 516; Loan
Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
188 U..S. 356; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Butchers'
Union v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Gulf .&c. R. R. Co.
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. I50; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 430;
United States v. Martin, 94 U. S. 400; Parrott's Case, 1
Fed. Rep. 481.
Section 14 also offends against the provisions of Art. 4,
§ 2, United States Constitution, guaranteeing to citizens
of each State all privileges and immunities of citizens of
the several States. Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 412;
Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 35; Paul v. Virginia, 8
Wall. 868.
Its violation in this respect is emphasized by the fact
that the courts of the State have uniformly enforced in
favor of its. own citizens the very rights denied to aliens
and to citizens of other States by the statute in question.
Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Bertholf v. O'Reilly, 74
N. Y. 509; People v. Marks, 99 N. Y. 377; People v. Williams, 189 N. Y. 131.

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

As the city had accepted and acted upon the power
granted it by the Rapid Transit Act for the construction
and operation of its subways prior to the enactment of
said section of the Labor Law, it acquired contractual
and vested rights to extend and complete the same which
were entitled to protection under Art. 1, § 10, of the
Constitution but which were invaded and impaired by
the act in question. Russell v. Sebastian, 233 U. S. 195;
Woodhaven Gas Co. v. Deehan, 153 N. Y. 533; Van Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; St. Louis v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 148 U. S. 92; Grand Trunk Ry. v. South Bend, 227
U. S. 544; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71; City
Railway v. Citizens R. R., 168 U. S. 557.
Section 14 finds no support in the doctrine underlying
the application of the principle of police power. Connolly
v. Union Sewer Co., 124 U. S. 540; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356; Colon v. Lisk, 153 N. Y. 188; People v.
Orange County Road Co., 175 N. Y. 84.
Section 14 is in conflict with the provisions of existing
treaties, particularly the treaty with Italy, and therefore
is a nullity. Constitution, Art. I, §§ 8, 9, 10; Art. II, § 2;
Art. III, § 2; Art. VI, § 2; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 213; United
States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407; Head Money Case, 112
U. S. 580; Charlton v. Kelly, 229 U. S. 447; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S.
483; Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 199; Chirac v. Chirac, 2
Wheat. 259; Geoffroy y. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258; Parrott's
Case, 1 Fed. Rep. 481; Baker v. Portland,5 Sawyer, 566;
Livestock Association v. Crescent City Co., 1 Abb. (U. S.)
388; Rutgers v. Waddington, Maybr's Court of New York;
People v. Gerke, 5 California, 431; South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U. S. 437.
This court is not concluded by the decision of the Court
of Appeals as to the rights of either the City or the subway
contractors as the, law applicable to such rights as pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

sented in this record and the rules applicable are those of
general jurisprudence and not matters of local law. Jefferson Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black. 436; Wright v. Nagle, 101
U. S. 791; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Chicago, 176 U. S. 646; Butz
v. Muscatine, 8 Wall. 575; Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall.
678; Boyce v. Tabb, 18 Wall. 548; Fallbrook District v.
Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257;
Pana v. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529; Union Lime Co. v. Chicago
&c. R. R., 233 U. S. 211.
The subway contracts in question are not the character
of public contracts referred to in the statute, and under
the authorities cited above this court may so determine,
as the legal question involved is not one of local law.
The covenant in the construction contracts to comply
with § 14 is not binding on the contractors, the law itself
being invalid. Rodgers v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1; North v.
Featherstonhaugh,172 N. Y. 112; Knowles v. New York,
176 N.. Y. 430; Insurance Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445.
Mr. James F. McKenney, for plaintiffs in error Cranford
Company and others, in No. 386, and for plaintiff in error
in No. 388, argued simultaneously herewith, submitted.
Mr. George S. Coleman for defendants in error in No. 386,
and Mr. Robert S. Johnstone, with whom Mr. Charles Albert Perkins, District Attorney of New York County, and
Mr. George Z.Medale were on the brief, for defendants in
error in No. 388 argued simultaneously herewith.
After stating the case as above, MR.
delivered the opinion of the court.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

There seems to have been no question raised as to the
right of Heim to maintain the suit, although he is not one
of the contractors nor a laborer of the excluded nationality
or citizenship. The Appellate Division felt that there
might be objection to the right, under the holding of a

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cited case. The Court of Appeals, however, made no
comment, and we must-certainly may-assume that
Heim had a right of suit; and, so assuming, we pass to the
merits.
The Supreme Court put its decision upon the power of
the State "to provide what laborers shall be employed
upon public works" and that "the State has the same right
in conducting its business that an individual has" and
had, therefore, "a perfect right to enact § 14 of the Labor
Law, and it does not violate any rights of an alien under
existing treaties."
The Appellate Division of the court, however, was of
opinion that the law could not be sustained upon such
consideration and saw in it such flagrant discrimination
as to be offensive to the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States; and so concluding, the
court considered it unnecessary to discuss the effect of
treaties.
The court also passed, without absolute decision, the
question whether the Labor Law applies to the work of
building subways for the Rapid Transit in the City of
New York. It was, however, stated in the opinion of the
court that in view of the language in a cited case, there
was "much ground for saying that even if the State could
lawfully impose the test of citizenship upon employ~s of
its own contractors, and the contractors with the city
engaged in what is properly state work, it has no more
power to impose such test upon the persons employed in
building a subway for the city than it would have if the
subway were being constructed by a private corporation or
individual." Two members of the court were clear that
the State had no such power and concurred besides with
the majority in holding that the Labor Law was "a violation of both the Federal and state constitutions."
* The Court of Appeals reversed the action of the Appellate Division.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

The basic principle of the decision of the Court of Appeals was that the State is a recognized unit and those
who are not citizens of it are not members of it. Thus
recognized it is a body corporate and, "like any other
body corporate, it may enter into contracts and hold and
dispose of property. In doing this, it acts through agencies
of government. These agencies, when contracting for the
State, or expending the State's moneys, are trustees for
the people of the State (Illinois Central Railroad v.
Illinois, 146 U. S.387). It is the people, i. e., the members of the State, who are contracting or expending their
own moneys through agencies of their own creation."
And it was hence decided that in the control of such
agencies and the expenditure of such moneys it could prefer
its own citizens to aliens without incurring the condemnation of the National or the state constitution. "The
statute is nothing more," said Chief. Judge Bartlett, concurring in the judgment of the court "in effect than a
resolve by an employer as to the character of its employ6s."
Notwithstanding the simplicity of the determining
principle pronounced by the Court of Appeals, its decision
is attacked in many and voluminous briefs.
The fundamental proposition of plaintiff in error Heim
is that, assuming that § 14 applies to the subway construction contracts in question, it (the law) contravenes
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States
(a) in that it violates the corporate rights of the city and
the rights of its residents and taxpayers, (b) the rights of
the various subway contractors with the city, (c) the
rights of aliens and citizens of other States resident in
New York, and (d) it is in violation of treaty rights.
Plaintiffs in error Cranford Company and FlinnO'Rourke Company were made defendants upon their
motion at the argument for injunction. In the Appellate
Division they, their counsel say, "neither assenting to nor
denying the special allegations, doubtless urged by corn-

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plainant's counsel, .
.
urged the single ground of
the unconstitutionality of the law and its violation of
treaties." And these grounds are again urged.
To sustain the charge of unconstitutionality the Fourteenth Amendment is adduced, and the specification is
that the law abridges the privileges and immunities of the
contractors and those of their alien employ6s in depriving
them of their right of contracting for labor, anO that the
State of New York, by enacting and enforcing the law,
deprives employers and employ6s of liberty and property
without due process of law and denies to both the equal
protection of the law.
The treaty that it is urged to be violated is that with
Italy, which, it is contended, "put aliens within the State
of New York upon an equality with citizens of the State
with respect to the right to labor upon public works;"
and that Congress has fortified the treaty by § 1977 of the
Revised Statutes,-(a part of the Civil Rights legislation).
The application of the law to the subway contracts, and
whatever its effect and to what extent it affects the corporate rights of the city or of the subway contractors are
local questions (Stewart v. Kansas City, ante, p. 14); and
have in effect been decided adversely to plaintiffs in error
by the Court of Appeals. The principle of its decision
was, .as we have seen, that the law expressed a condition
to be observed in the construction of public works; and
this necessarily involved the application of § 14 to subway
construction and the subordinate relation in which the
city stood to the State. Therefore, the contention of
plaintiffs in error that the rapid transit lines have given
the city rights superior to the control of the State, so
far as the law in question is concerned, has met with
adverse decision. Whatever of local law or considerations
are involved in the decision we are bound by; whatever of
dependence the decision has in the general power of a

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

State over its municipalities has support in many cases.
We have recently decided the power exists, and we may
be excused from further discussion of it. Stewart v. Kansas
City, supra.
With the rejection of the asserted rights of the city
must go the asserted rights, of residents and taxpayers
therein and the rights of subway contractors, so far as
they depend upon the asserted freedom of the city from
the control of the State.
The claim of a right in the city of such freedom is peculiar. The State created a scheme of rapid transit, constituted officers and invested them with powers to execute
the scheme, yet, the contention is, that scheme, officers and
powers have become in some way in their exercise and
effect superior to the state law, or, according to the explicit contention (we say explicit contention, but it is
rather a conclusion from an elaborate argument and much
citation of cases), that the city's action in regard to the
subway is proprietary in character, and, being such, the
city can assert rights against the State, and that individual
rights have accrued to residents of the city of which the
city is the trustee and which "are so interwoven and bound
up with the rapid transit system as to be 'beyond the
control of the State."' Counsel have not given us a sure
test of when action by a city is governmental and when
proprietary. We need not attempt a characterization.
If it be granted that the city acted in the present case
in a proprietary character and has secured proprietary
rights, to what confusion are we brought! A taxpayer of
the city, invoking the rights of the city, asserts against
the control by the State of the proprietary action of the
city the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
then against the proprietary action of the city that
Amendment is urged in favor of the contractors with the
city, and their exemption from the performance of their
contracts declared. There seems to be a jumble of rights.

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

If the city is not an agent of the State (it is contended
the city is not) but a private proprietor (it is contended
the city is) it would seem as if it has the rights and powers
of such a proprietor, and, as such, may make what contracts please it, including or excluding alien laborers.
But upon these suppositions we need not dwell. It is
clear it is with the state law and the city's execution of it
as agent of the. State that we must deal and only on the
assumption that the state law has been held to apply by
the Court of Appeals, and, by a consideration of the
power to enact it, determine the contentions of all of the
plaintiffs in error.
The contentions of plaintiffs in error under the Constitution of the United States and the arguments advanced to
support them were at one time formidable in discussion
and decision. We can now answer them by authority.
They were considered in Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207,
222, 223. It was there declared, and it was the principle
of decision, that "it belongs to the State, as guardian
and trustee for its people, and having control of its affairs,
to prescribe the conditions upon which it will permit public
work to be done on its behalf, or on behalf of its municipalities." And it was said, "No court has authority to
review its action in that respect. Regulations on this
subject suggest only considerations of public policy. And
with such considerations the courts have no concern."
This was the principle declared and applied by the Court
of Appeals in the decision of the present case. Does the
instance of the case justify the application of the principle? In Atkin v. Kansas the law attacked and sustained
prescribed the hours (8) which should constitute a day's
work for those employed by or on behalf of the State, or
by or on behalf of any of its subdivisions. The Fourteenth
Amendment was asserted against the law; indeed, there
is not a contention made in this case that was not made in
that. Immunity of municipal corporations from legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

lative interference in their property and private contracts
was contended for there (as here); also that employ~s of
contractors were not employds of cities. It was contended
there (as here) that the capacity in which the city acted;
whether public or private, was a question of general law
not dependent upon local considerations or statutes, and
that this court was not bound by the decision of the state
court. And there (as here) was asserted a right to contest
the law, though the contracts were made subsequent to
and apparently subject to it, upon the ground that they
were entered into under the belief that the law was void.
Finally the ultimate contention there was (as it is here)
that the liberty of contract assured by the Fourteenth
Amendment was infringed by the law. In all particulars
except one the case was the prototype of this. There the
hours of labor were prescribed; here the kind of laborers
to be employed. The one is as much of the essence of the
right regulated as the other, that is, the same elements
are in both cases-the right of the individual employer
and employ6 to contract as they shall see fit, the relation
of the State to the matter regulated, that is, the public
character of the work.
The power of regulation was decided to exist whether a
State undertook a public work itself or whether it "invested one of its governmental agencies with power to
care" for the work, which, it was said, "whether done by
the State directly or by one of its instrumentalities," was
"of a public, not private, character." And, being of public
character, it (the law-the Kansas statute) did not "infringe the liberty of any one." The declaration was emphasized. "It cannot be deemed," it was said, "a part
of the liberty of any contractor that he be allowed to do
public work in any mode he may choose to adopt, without
regard to the wishes of the State." And obversely it was
said (as we have already quoted): "On the contrary, it
belongs to the State, as the guardian of its people, and

HEIM v. McCALL.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

having control of its affairs, to prescribe the conditions
[italics ours] upon which it will permit public work to be
done on its behalf, or on behalf of its municipalities." See
also Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S. 246. The contentions
of plaintiffs in error, therefore, which are based on the
Fourteenth Amendment cannot be sustained.
Are plaintiffs in error any better off under the treaty
provision which they invoke in their bill? The treaty with
Italy is the one especially applicable, for the aliens employed are subjects of the King of Italy. By that Treaty
(1871) it is provided, Articles II and II, 17 Stat. 845, 846:
"The citizens of each of the high contracting parties
shall have liberty to travel in the States and Territories
of the other, to carry on trade, wholesale and retail,. to
hire and occupy houses and warehouses, to employ agents
of their choice, and generally to do .anything incident to,
or necessary for trade, upon the same terms as the natives
of the country, submitting themselves to the laws there
established."
"The .citizens of each of the high contracting parties
shall receive, in the States and Territories of the other,
the most constant protection and security for their per-'
sons and property, and shall enjoy in this respect the same
rights and privileges as are or shall be granted to the
natives, on their submitting themselves to the conditions
imposed upon the natives."
There were slight modifications of these provisions in
the treaty of 1913, as follows: "That the citizens of each
of the high contracting parties shall receive, in the States
and Territories of the other, the most constant security
and protection for their persons and property and for
their rights.

.

Construing the provision of 1871 the Court of Appeals
decided that it "does not limit the power of the State, as
a proprietor, to control the construction of its own works
and the distribution of its own moneys." The conclusion
VOL. ccxxxix-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

is inevitable, we think, from the principles we have, announced. We need not follow counsel in dissertation upon
the treaty-making power or the obligations of treaties
when made. The present case is concerned with construction, not power; and we have precedents to guide
construction. The treaty with Italy was considered in
Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138, 145, and a convention with Switzerland (as in the present case) which
was supposed to become a part of it. It was held that a
law of Pennsylvania making it unlawful for unnaturalized
foreign born residents to kill game, and to that end making
the possession of shotguns and rifles unlawful, did not
violate the treaty. Adopting the declaration of the court
below, it was said "that the equality of rights that the
treaty assures is equality only in respect of protection and
security for persons and property." And the ruling was
given point by a citation of the power of the State over its
wild game which might be preserved for its own citizens.
In other words, the ruling was given point by the special
power of the State over the subject-matter, a power which
exists in the case at bar, as we have seen.
From these premises we conclude that the Labor Law
of New York and its threatened enforcement do not violate
the Fourteenth Amendment or the rights of plaintiffs in
error thereunder nor under the provisions of the treaty
witlb Italy.
Judgment affirmed.

