OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

239 U. S.

state commerce, without complying with the statute
quoted, the contentions based upon the commerce clause
and the due process of law clause alike must fall. For the
authority of the State to restrict the right of a foreign
corporation to engage in business within its limits or to
sue in its courts, so long as interstate commerce be not
thereby burdened, is perfectly well settled. Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 181; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S.
648, 655; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519, 589, 591;
Anglo-American Prov. Co. v. Davis Prov. Co., 191 U. S.
373; Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 203.
The insistence based upon the "equal protection" clause
is unsubstantial, and calls for no discussion.
Judgment affirmed.

HOME BOND COMPANY v. McCHESNEY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF AMERICAN FIBRE
REED COMPANY AND NEW ENGLAND CHAIR
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 90. Argued December 3, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
This court follows the conclusions, reached by the Special Master and
affirmed by both courts below, that transactions purporting to be
purchases of accounts receivable from the bankrupt were really loans
with the accounts transferred as collateral security.
210 Fed. Rep. 893, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve construction of contracts
between the bankrupt and one dealing with him and
determination of whether such contracts were purchases
of accounts or loans with the accounts as collateral, are
stated in the opinion.

HOME BOND CO. v. McCHESNEY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert Kinkead, with whom Mr. S. M. Sapinsky,
Mr. James R. Duffin, Mr. Owen D. Duffinand Mr. S. M.
Stockslager were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Lewis A. Nuckols, with whom Mr. John Bryce
Baskin and Mr. Eli H. Brown, Jr., were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The New England Chair Company, and its successor,
the American Fibre Reed Company, are Kentucky corporations which were engaged in business at Frankfort,
in that State. On February 1, 1912, involuntary petitions
in bankruptcy were filed against both companies, and
they were duly adjudicated bankrupts. The two cases
in bankruptcy were consolidated and directed to proceed as one cause, and the estates are under administration as one estate. The present appellant, The Home
Bond Company, an Indiana corporation, filed intervening
petitions, claiming certain funds in the hands of the trustee,
obtained by him through the collection of accounts receivable of the bankrupt corporations, to which the petitioner claimed title under two contracts in writing made
between it and the respective corporations; one with the
New England Chair Company under date March 6, 1911,
the other with the American Fibre Reed Company under
date November 9, 1911, after the latter had taken over
the assets and assumed the liabilities of the Chair Company. These agreements are identical in form, and a
copy of one is set forth in the margin.'
1 This agreement, made this 6th day of March, 1911, at Indianapolis,
Indiana, by and between New England Chair Co., hereinafter called
first party, and the Home Bond Company, hereinafter called second
party.
Witnesseth, that, for One Dollar ($1.00) and other good and valuable

OCTOBER TERM, 1015.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

Petitioner also set up a claim against the trustee for the
sum of $800, being $100 per month from March 16 to
October 12, 1912, inclusive, paid by it to one Manning,
considerations, each to the other paid, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto have agreed and do hereby agree as
follows:
First. That said second party shall buy from said first party all
acceptable accounts tendered to it by said first party and pay therefor
the face value thereof less the following discounts:
1 per cent. on accounts that are paid within 15 days;
2 per cent. on accounts that are paid within 30 days;
3 per cent. on accounts that are paid within 60 days;
4 per cent. on accounts that are paid within 90 days;
5 per cent. on accounts that are paid within 120 days;
6 per cent. on accounts that are paid within 150 days;
7 per cent. on accounts that are paid within 180 days;
subject however, to the terms of this and any subsequent written
agreements executed by the parties hereto.
Second. That the second party shall pay:
78 per cent. on 30 day accounts;
77 per cent. on 60 day accounts;
76 per cent. on 90 day accounts;
75 per cent. on 120 day accounts;
74 per cent. on 150 day accounts;
73 per cent. on 180 day accounts;
upon delivery to and acceptance by second party of such accounts duly
assigned to the party of the second part; and the remainder, less discount and deductions taken by the debtor, shall be paid immediately
after the collection of the account by the second party, provided, however, no payment of the remainder shall be made while any of said
accounts are in default.
Third. The first party shall properly assign and deliver to said second
party all accounts purchased, including the right of stoppage in transitu, either in the name of the party of the first part or in the name of the
party of the second part (provided, however, the party of the second
part shall not be charged with negligence in not making stoppage in
transitu in any event unless thereunto requested by the party of the
first part). If the merchandise named in. the accounts should be refused or returned, for any cause, the title to such merchandise shall be
and remain in said second party until such accounts are paid.
Fourth. Said first party hereby guarantees the payment to the second

HOME BOND CO. v. McCHESNEY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

who in the sixth clause of the contract of November 9,

1911, was by the Reed Company appointed attorney in
fact to receive remittances in payment of the accounts
party or its assigns of all accounts purchased hereunder according to
the terms thereof. In the event of non-payment at maturity to said
second party, of any accounts purchased as aforesaid, or should the
debtor become insolvent, said first party hereby covenants and agrees
to repurchase said accounts within five days after receipt of written
notice thereof, and to pay therefor the same amount paid to the first
party by said second party, plus the discount provided for in the first
paragraph of this contract; said second party is hereby given the right
without notice to said first party to credit any moneys coming into its
possession, belonging to said first party, on its accounts.
Fifth. Immediately after the purchase of every account hereunder,
said first party shall make upon its book an entry showing the absolute
sale of said accounts to said second party, and said second party is
hereby given the right and privilege of auditing the books, accounts
and records of said first party, relating to said accounts, at any time
that it may see fit so to do.
Sixth. Whereas it is for the mutual benefit of the parties hereto that
the collection of said accounts shall in the first instance be remitted to
the party of the first part and in its name; the party of the first part
shall at all tines appoint some person or persons mutually acceptable
to both of the parties hereto, their attorney-in-fact to receive all such
remittances in whatever form they may be made, and to transfer, assign
and transmit all such proceeds to said party of the second part.
. And said party of the first part shall immediately upon receipt of
such remittances in whatever form the same shall be made, deliver the
same to such attorney for transmittal to the party of the second part;
and said attorney shall at all times have access to all mail received by
said party of the first part and all books and records of the party of the
first part, to discover what payments and remittances are made upon
such accounts.
And in consideration of the execution of this agreement by the party
of the second part, said party of the first part undertakes and agrees
to guarantee the faithful conduct of said attorney-in-fact in the receipt,
assignment and transmittal of all such payments or remittances. And
upon the like consideration said party of the first part shall pay unto
said attorney-in-fact compensation for all such services so rendered in
that behalf; and that we will furnish and provide for said attorney-infact all necessary clerical or stenographic assistance for making reports

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

receivable and transmit them to petitioner. It was averred
that $100 per month was a reasonable charge and that
under the provisions of the sixth clause the Reed Company was to pay Manning, but failed to do so, and petitioner was compelled to make such payment.
The trustee filed answers contesting the principal claim
on the ground that the transactions between petitioner
and the bankrupt corporations did not amount to a purchase of the accounts receivable but constituted mere
loans of money (with the accounts assigned as collateral
to party of the first part, and all postage or express charges for transmitting reports and remittances; said attorney-in-fact shall also have
the right and power, and it shall be his duty to endorse the name of the
party of the first part on any freight or express bill or bill of lading relating to said accounts; and ratifying and confirming all its said attorney may do in the premises. And said attorney-in-fact as to all such
matters shall receive such moneys or other remittance solely for the
party of the second part and shall at all timeg be subject to its exclusive
orders with relation thereto; and it is now mutually agreed between the
parties hereto that E. Manning shall be and continue such attorney-infact to perform such duties, until by mutual agreement of the parties
hereto, another person shall be appointed in his stead.
Seventh. That said second party in making purchase of accounts
hereunder relies upon the guaranties and covenants of said first party
herein contained and upon the written representations made to it by
said first party as to the financial responsibility of said first party; that
said written representation heretofore made and that may hereafter be
made are for the purpose of establishing the credit of said first party
with said second party so that sale of accounts may be made hereunder.
Eighth. That said first party shall execute and deliver to said second
party or its assigns, any document necessary or proper to carry into
effect this contract and -should second party employ counsel or cause
legal action to be instituted to enforce the payment of any of said
accounts, or any part thereof, either in its own name or of the name of
the party of the first part, then and in either case said first party shall
immediately pay to said second party or its assigns, all court costs, expenses, attorney's and stenographer's fees which may be by it expended
in such proceedings.
In Witness Whereof, etc.

HOME BOND CO. v. McCHESNEY.
239 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

security) at usurious rates of interest, and traversing the
claim for moneys paid to Manning upon grounds that will
appear below. The special master to whom the matter
was referred overruled the claim, sustaining the trustee's
contention, and holding, in view of the agreed statement
of facts submitted to him by the parties in lieu of proof,
that the contracts were not sales of the accounts by the
respective bankrupt corporations to petitioner, but were
transfers of the accounts as security for loans; and that
these loans were made at usurious rates of interest,
whether the contracts were made in Indiana or Kentupky,
since the amounts retained as a "service charge" under
the contracts amounted to at least 24 per centum per
annum on the moneys paid by the petitioner from the
time of payment to the time of reimbursement, while the
statutes of both States fixed six per centum per annum
as the legal rate of interest, providing that any excess
might be relieved against, and if paid recouped, and while
the Indiana statute permitted interesf up to 8% to be
contracted for in writing, it provided that if over 8%
were contracted for or collected, all over 6% should be
forfeited. The special master therefore held tlhat in the
settlement the transactions between the petitioner and
trustee should be purged of usury, and the petitioner be
treated as a creditor of the bankrupt corporations with
security for its debt. As to the claim for the $800 paid
by, petitioner to Manning, the special master overruled
this upon the ground that there was notlhing'to show what
services, if any, were rendered by Manning as attorney
in fact during the time from March 16, 1912, to November 12, 1912. It appeared that during the continuance
of the contracts between the petitioner and the Chair
Company and the Reed Company respectively, Manning was an officer and employ6 of the respective companies; that for all services rendered by him while so
employed by these companies, including such as he

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

rendered as attorney in fact, he was to receive a regular
salary, which was paid to him by the Chair Company
until the business was taken over by the Reed Company,
and then by it until April 9, 1912, when the custodian
took charge of the bankrupts' estates, with the exception
of salary for the two weeks ending April 9, which was
owing to him from the Reed Company; that from April 9
to September 9, 1912, Manning was in the employ of the
custodian as clerk, and thereafter in the employ of the
trustee in the same capacity, and his salary for this employment had been paid him out of the bankrupts' estates. The special master also overruled a claim made
by petitioner for allowance of its counsel fee in the
same proceedings. The demand fQr such allowance was
based upon the eighth clause of the agreement, which
it was contended was broad enough to embrace not only
counsel fees incurred in the collection of accounts receivable from delinquent debtors or customers of th".
Chair Company or the Reed Company, but also counsel
fees incurred by petitioner in collecting directly from either
of those companies any accounts receivable which had
come into its hands and for which it or its trustee in bankruptcy failed to account.
Thereupon the special master stated an account between the petitioner and the bankrupts' estates, making
the proper allowances for the usury, finding a balance of
only $576.10 due from the trustee to the petitioner, and
recommending that this be ordered paid over, but only
upon condition that the petitioner turn over or account
to the trustee for the contracts of March 6, 1911, and
November 9, 1911, and any uncollected accounts or papers
connected with the uncollected accounts 'delivered to it
under those contracts.
Petitioner's exceptions to this report were overruled
by the District Court (206 Fed. Rep. 309), and a decree
was entered in accordance with the recommendations of

HOME BOND CO. v. McCHESNEY.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the special master. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the decree. 210 Fed. Rep. 893.
Upon the present appeal it is insisted that there was
error in holding that petitioner and appellant, by virtue
of the contracts between it and the bankrupts and the
transactions and conduct of the parties, did not become
the purchaser or owner of the accounts receivable in question, and that the transactions were really loans; with the
accounts receivable transferred as collateral security.
But it seems to us so entirely clear that the conclusions
reached by the special master and approved by both
courts were correct that we deem it unnecessary to discuss the matter at any length. To quote from the opinion
of. the District Court: "The considerations which support
this conclusion are that the bankrupts were to and did
collect the accounts and bear all expense in connection
with their collection; what is claimed to have been the
purchase price for the accounts, to-wit: the difference
between the face of the accounts and the discount, was
not known until payment of the account and receipt
thereof by the Company and then depended on the time
that had elapsed since the date of the advance of the
seventy-five per cent; what is claimed to have been deferred payment of the purchase price was simply a return
to ,the bankrupt of the excess of the collection over and
above the advance and discount; and the provision that,
in the event of non-payment of any of the accounts at
maturity or the debtor becoming insolvent, the bankrupt
should repurchase the account and pay therefor the advance made thereupon plus the discount. . . . In
so far as the contracts in question here use words fit for
a contract of purchase they are mere shams and devices
to cover loans of money at usurious rates of interest.
That the company was not adverse to the use of shams is
otherwise apparent from the use by it of the word 'service,' in its dealings with the bankrupts under the con-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Syllabus.

239 U. S.

tracts, to characterize the discounts. In any view of the
contracts those discounts were not charges for services
rendered the bankrupts. Loans are never regarded as
services."
Houghton v. Burden, 228 U. S. 161, affirming In re
Canfield, 193 Fed. Rep. 934, is plainly distinguishable,
for there the contract contemplated actual services by
the lender, and this provision was found not to have
been a mere cover for usury.
The rulings adverse to the claim for moneys paid to
Manning and for counsel fees in the proceedings ae so
manifestly correct as to require no discussion.
Decree affirmed.

KANAWHA & MICHIGAN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. KERSE, ADMINISTRATOR OF BARRY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KANAWHA COUNTY, STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 129.

Argued. December 10, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

Where the highest appellate court of the State refuses to allow a writ
of error to review a judgment based on a verdict, the writ of error
from this court is directed to the trial court.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, the action lies for injury or death
resulting in whole or in part from the negligence of the officers,
agents or employ6s of such carrier.
To conduct switching operations upon a switch obstructed in such
manner as to endanger the lives of brakemen upon its cars, is evidence of negligence on the part of the railroad company, and the
existence of such an obstruction for a considerable period of time is
presumptive evidence of notice to the company.
The burden of proof of assumption of risk is on the employer, and unless
the evidence indisputably shows such assumption, the trial court
does not err in refusing to take that question from the jury.

