OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

PORTER v. WILSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 58. Submitted November 5, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.
This court accepts the decision of the highest court of the State that
the state constitution was not violated by any action of the trial
court.
In thiscase, held that a decision by the trial court of Oklahoma, based
on demurrer to the evidence of the plaintiff and, after weighing that
testimony for the purpose of determining the rights of the respective
parties, did not abridge immunities and privileges of the plaintiff
as a citizen of the United States nor deprive the plaintiff of property
without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
by disregarding the provisions of § 5039, Rev. Laws Oklahoma, making the provisions of the statute respecting trials by jury applicable
to trials by the court.
Sqction 5 of the act of February 28, 1891, 26 Stat. 794, e. 383, amending
the general allotment act of February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388, c. 179,
had no effect upon the right of inheritance as to Creek Indians in
Indian Territory inasmuch as by § 8 of the act of 1887, Creek territory was expressly excepted from the operations of that statute.
The provision in § 38 of the Oklahoma act of May 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 81,
legalizing Indian marriages, relate only to marriages theretofore
contracted and not to those thereafter contracted.
39 Oklahoma, 500, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the inheritance of an allotment to a Creek Indian, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lewis C. Lawson and Mr. FrankL. Montgomery for
plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit to quiet title, brought in the district court of
Hughes County, State of Oklahoma, and in which plain-

PORTER v. WILSON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tiff in error was plaintiff and defendants in error defendants, and we shall so designate them.
The case concerns the inheritance of an allotment to
one Ben Porter, a Creek citizen and member of the Tribe
of the Creek Nation. Plaintiff contends that she is the
daughter and only child of Porter and Jennie McGilbra,
whom he married, it is asserted, in 1893, and with whom
he afterwards resided for one and one-half years as husband in accordance with the usages and customs of the
Creek Nation. He subsequently separated from her, it is
alleged, but never got a divorce from her, and that therefore they remained husband and wife until the time of
his death, which occurred about November 23, 1906, he
dying intestate, and being seized of the lands in controversy at that time, plaintiff, Nellie Porter, became entitled
in fee simple to all of them.
It is averred that after Porter's separation from his wife
he "took up" with another woman by the name of Lena
Canard who, after the death of Porter, married one William Freeman; that Porter left surviving him one Sam
Porter, a half brother, a Seminole Indian and so enrolled,
and one Nannie Broadnax, a half sister. From this
brother and sister and Mrs. Freeman the defendants in
error derive their title.
Defendants deny the marriage of Porter and Jennie
McGilbra or that plaintiff was his child or in any way
related to him and aver that their grantors "were the sole
and exclusive heirs of Porter and as such inherited the
lands from him."
The judgment recites that the cause coming on, upon
hearing upon the pleadings and upon evidence offered on
the part of the plaintiff, and upon the plaintiff resting
her cause with the court upon the evidence offered, the
defendants demurred to the evidence and the court sustained the demurrer, and found "that the alleged marital
relation between Ben Porter and Jennie McGilbra was

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

not established by the proof and did not exist, either by
reason of customs or the laws of the Creek Nation; that
the relation was illicit; that the plaintiff, Nellie Porter,
was the illegitimate child of this illicit relation." The
court entered a dectee dismissing plaintiff's bill and forever quieting the title of defendants against plaintiff.
The decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court sustained the action of the trial
court in rendering judgment upon the evidence, saying,
"It is obvious from the record that the court passed upon
the entire case," and that "it would be too subtle a refinement to say that the court should have overruled the
demurrer and thereupon, on the same evidence, have
found for the defendant; otherwise a reversal must follow."
And further: "Ultimately plaintiff's right to recover involved a question of fact for the court's determination.
That the court did consider the testimony and determine
the insufficiency is clearly established from the language
of the journal entry. The burddn of proof rested upon the
plaintiff to prove, not only the Indian customs of the
Creek Nation pertaining to marriage, but to establish
her rights thereunder. There was more or less conflict in
the testimony of plaintiff's witnesses, from which different
conclusions might be drawn, and there being testimony
reasonably tending to support the judgment of the court,
the same will not be weighed by this court to ascertain
whether the court's decision is against the preponderance
of the testimony." For which conclusion the court cited
a number of Oklahoma cases.
Against the action of the trial court and its affirmance
by the Supreme Court it is contended that the constitution of the State and the Fourteenth Amendment have
been violated in that the plaintiff's privileges and immunities have been abridged and her property taken without due process of law. The foundation of the contention
is § 5039 of the Revised Laws of Oklahoma. It provides

PORTER v. WILSON.
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that "the provisions of this article respecting trials by jury
apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to
trials by the court." The argument is that under that
section "a citizen of the said State and of the United
States is entitled tQ the same protection and enforcement
of the law, on a demurrer to the evidence where their
causes of action are tried by the court, as when tried to a
jury." And, it is further argued, if there be any evidence,
"conflicting evidence cannot be weighed or considered
by the court" and the demurrer should have been overruled. These contentions are attempted to be supported
by citation of many cases and elaborate comment made
upon them to sustain the assertion "that a demurrer to
the evidence presents a proposition of law and not of fact;
and that conflicting evidence in the case is not to be considered, if there be evidence even tending to support the
claims of the demurree."
The contention is difficult to handle. It seems to confound so completely the purpose and various qualities of
evidence and the functions of a court.
Whether, however, there be a technical difference between the final submission of a case to the court and its
submission upon a demurrer to the evidence we need not
dwell upon. The difference has been made unimportant,
indeed, removed from the present case, by the decision
of the Supreme Court. The court decided, as we have
seen, that the trial court "did not render its judgment
alone upon the demurrer to the evidence, but, after a
consideration of the proof submitted by plaintiff, made its
findings of fact, thereby necessarily weighing the plaintiff's testimony for the purpose of determining the rights
of the respective parties to a recovery." And the court
pointed out that "even though it were conceded that
technical error was committed, the substantial rights of
the plaintiff were not affected; as she had introduced her
evidence and rested her case, she was not caused to change

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

her position, nor did she suffer any disadvantage in the
proceduie adopted." The court added that it was required by the statutes of the State and its decisions to
disregard errors or defects in the pleadings or proceedings
which did not affect the substantial rights of the parties.
It is manifest, therefore, that the action of the trial
court was in full exercise of the power entrusted to it
under the laws of the State, and the contention of plaintiff that the Constitution of the United States is violated
is untenable. We, of course, accept the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State that the state constitution is
not violated.
The next contention of plaintiff is that she inherited the
lands by virtue of § 5 of the act of Congress of February 28,
1891, 26 Stat. 794, c. 383, which amended the general
allotment act of February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388, c. 119.
By this section it is provided "that for the purpose of
deter7mining the descent of land to the heirs of any deceased Indian under the provisions of the fifth section of
said act of February 8, 1887, the issue of Indians cohabiting as husband and wife according to the custom and
manner of Indian life," shall be "taken and deemed to be
legitimate issue of the Indians su living together, and
every Indian child, otherwise illegitimate., shall for such
purposes, be taken and held to be the legitimate issue
of the father of such child."
But by § 8 of the act of February 8, 1887, 24 Stat., p. 391,
"the territory occupied by the . . . Creeks .
in the Indian Territory" was expressly excepted from the
provisions of that act. It was hence concluded by the
Supreme Court of the State that § 5 of the act of 1891,
supra, was without effect upon the right of inheritance,
as to the Creek Indians in the Indian Territory.
Plaintiff attacks this conclusion by citing § 38 of the
act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, 98, which organized
the Territory of Oklahoma. It provides "that all mar-

HEIM v. McCALL.
239 U. S.

Syllabus.

riages heretofore contracted under the laws or tribal customs of any Indian Nation now located in the Indian
Territory are hereby declared valid and the issue of such
marriages shall be deemed legitimate and, entitled to all
inheritances of property or other rights, the same as in
case of the issue of other forms of lawful marriage.
"
It will be observed that the asserted marriage between
Porter and the mother of plaintiff took place in 1893, that
is, subsequent to the act of 1890 organizing the Territory
of Oklahoma, and therefore was not a marriage within
the meaning of § 38, theretofore contracted, and therefore
plaintiff's reliance must be upon the provision, before
stated, in § 5 of the act of 1891. As that section was
expressly restricted to lands allotted under § 5 of the act
of 1887, and as the lands occupied by the Creeks in the
Indian Territory could not be and were not allotted under
the latter section, it follows that the provision relied upon
had no application to the lands here in question, they
being part of the territory so occupied by the Creeks.
Judgment affirmed.

HEIM v. McCALL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 386.

Argued October 12, 1915.-Decided November 29, 1915.

The highest court of the State not having commented on the question
of right of plaintiff as a taxpayer to maintain the action although

the same was raised, this court may-even not required so to doassume that the right existed.
It belongs to the State, as guardian and trustee for its people, and
having control of its affairs, to prescribe the conditions upon which

