OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

their grade from the time they took rank as stated in their
commissions, were the youngest officers, who were appointed to the lowest grade and therefore not promoted
to fill a vacancy as contemplated in the act of 1874. House
Rep. No. 1089. 62d Cong., 2d Sess. Senate Rep. No.
1217. 62d Cong., 3d Sess.
Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no

part in the consider-

ation and decision of these cases.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MEESE.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 133.' Argued December 10, 1915.-Decided January 17, 1916.
Federal courts must accept the construction of a state statute deliberately adopted by the highest court of that State.
The highest court of the State having held, in construing the Washington Workmen's Compensation Act of 1911, that the compensation
thereby provided in the cases covered by its terms was intended
to be exclusive of every other remedy and that all causes of action
theretofore existing and not saved by its provisos were done away
with, the Federal court should accept that constructiofn.
In view of that construction, held that although the act did not specifically repeal §§ 183 and 194, Rem. & Ball. Code, the personal
representatives of an employ6, killed, while in the course, and at
the place, of his employment, by the negligence of one not his
employer, cannot maintain a suit at law therefor against the
latter.
On the record in this case it does not appear that the Workmen's

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. MEESE.
239 U. S.

615

Argument for Respondent.

Compensation Act of Washington is unconstitutional as a denial
of the equal protection of the law.
211 Fed. Rep. 254, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Workmen's Compensation Act of Washington and the duty of
the Federal court to follow the construction of that
statute in cases arising thereunder, -are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Bunn for petitioner.
Mr. Govnor Teats, with whom Mr. Leo Teats and Mr.
Ralph Teats were on the brief, for the respondent:
The Workmen's Compensation Act of Washington,
does not and never was intended to deny to or take from
the heirs or personal representatives of the deceased husband and father, their right of action for damages against
the railway company, it not being an employer of the deceased whose wrongful act caused his death. The death
of respondent's intestate having been caused by the wrongful act and negligence of one not his employer, his heirs,
the respondents herein, are not barred by the provisions
of the Workmen's Compensation Act from maintaining
their statutory right of action against the railway company
by reason of the fact that at the time the deceased was
injured, from which injuries he died, he was working with
a class of employ~s covered by the act and acting in the
discharge of his duties as an employ6 of that company
and at the plant of that company.
The Workmen's Compensation Law was a product
of certain conditions existing between workmen and employers in Washington by reason of the fellow-servant,
assumption of the risk and contributory negligence doctrine.of the common law in the first place and the waste
of money paid by employers to casualty companies, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Respondent.

239 U. S.

uncertainty of relief, the abuses of such companies towards the injured workman, producing estrangement between workmen and employer, inimical to all concerned
including the public, and the expense to the State from
increased personal injury litigation between master and
servant.
The Workmen's Compensation Law was not intended
and does not relate to the right of action of a workman
or his heirs against negligent third persons not his employers, except as provided in §§ 3 and 5 of the act and
then at his option.
The manifest intent of the law is not to cover and
compensate for accidents generally but to cover accidents
occurring in those employments and occupations which
are specifically classed as and which may be found by
the commission to be extra hazardous. Guerrieri v.
Industrial Ins. Comm., 84 Washington, 266.
The Supreme Court of the State of Washington has
not by construction or otherwise extended the application of the law to cases similar to the one at bar, and when
called upon to construe the law in a case of this sort will
follow the construction placed upon it by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in 211 Fed. Rep. 254.
To extend the application of the Workmen's Compensation Law to right of action of a workman against a
third person under the facts of this case, would be unconstitutional, and would be a discrimination against the
respondents and not an equal protection under the law.
In support of these contentions of defendant in error,
see also Barbier v. Connelly, 113 U. S. 27; Bouvier's Law
Dict., Title Preamble; Bowen v. Lease, 2 Hill, 226; Diana
v. Lamerous, 114 Wisconsin, 44; Endlich, Int. of Statutes,
§ 59; Gulf .&c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Hanly v. Sims,
175 Indiana, 345; Huntworth v. Tanner, 45 Wash. Dec.
482; Kelley v. Madison, 43 Wisconsin, 638; 28 Am. Rep.
576; Lewis, Sutherland Stat. Const., §§ 120-145;_McGa#1n

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. MEESE.
239 U. S.

617

Opinion of the Court.

v. Cohoes, 74 N. Y. 387; Mo. Pac.Ry. v. Mackey, 127 U. S.
205; Peet v. Mills, 76 Washington, 437; Replogle v. School
Dist., 84 Washington, 581; State v. Clausen, 65 Washington, 195; State V. Mountain Timber Co., 75 Washington,
581; State v. Taylor, 21 Washington, 672; State v. Haun,
47 L. R. A. 369; Sutherland Statutory Const., §§ 388499.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Benjamin Meese, an employ6 of the Seattle Brewing
and Malting Company, was fatally injured on April 12,
1913, while engaged about his ordinary duties at its plant
in Seattle. Alleging that his death resulted from the
negligence of the petitioner railway company, his wife
and children brought this action for damages in the District Court of the United States. They relied upon the
following sections, Remington and Ballinger's Annotated
Codes and Statutes of Washington:
"Section 183. . . . When the death of a person
is caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another, his
heirs or personal representatives. may maintain an action
for damages against the person causing the death."
"Section 194. No action for a personal injury to any
person occasioning his death shall abate, nor shall such
right of action determine, by reason of such death, if he
have a wife or child living, . . . ; but such action may
be prosecuted, or commenced and prosecuted, in favor
"
of such wife or in favor of the wife and children
The railway company demurred, specifying as one of the
grounds therefor, "That there is no authority in law under
which the plaintiffs' action can be maintained as against
this answering defendant, it appearing from the complaint that Benjamin Meese, on account of whose wrongful death this action was brought, sustained the injuries

OC'rOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

of which complaint is made, at the place of work and
plant of his employer, and the plaintiff's claim comes
within the terms of Chapter 74 of the Session Laws of the
State of Washington for 1911, being an act relating to
compensation of injured workmen," approved March 14,
1911.
By the act referred to the legislature of Washington
specifically repealed certain sections of Remington and
Ballinger's Code, not including §§ 183 and 194; established
a comprehensive plan for the relief of workmen injured
in extra hazardous work and their families and dependents, regardless of the question of fault; and likewise
made provision for raising the necessary funds by enforced
contributions from specified employers, both breweries
and railroads being included.
The trial court (206 Fed. Rep. 222) held that the purpose of the act of March 14, 1911, was not merely to end
controversies between employers and employ6s in respect of injuries to the latter, but to end all suits at law
for the injury or death of employ~s while engaged in
certain occupations, no matter by-whom injured or killed,
with certain exceptions not here important. And by a
judgment dated July 11, 1913, the demurrer was accordingly sustained and the complaint dismissed.
This action of the trial court was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals (211 Fed. Rep. 254) the latter being of
opinion that the act in question did not, and was not
intended to, deprive complainants of their right to proceed under §§ 183 and 194 of the Code, since deceased
was not its employ6 when the accident occurred. Counsel for the railway called especial attention to Peet v.
Mills, 76 Washington, 437, decided November 28, 1913,
and insisted that the conclusions there announced were
in accord with the opinion and judgment of the District
Court then under review; but the Circuit Court of Appeals rejected this view, saying: "We are unable to agree

NROIRTIEIN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. MEESE.
239 U. S.

619

Opinion of the Court.

with counsel that the Supreme Court of the State of Washington in that case reached a conclusion different from
that reached by us in the present case."
The error now assigned and relied on is: "That the Circuit Court of Appeals should have followed Peet v. Mills
and have affirmed the judgment of the District Court."
It is settled doctrine that Federal courts must accept
the construction of a state statute deliberately adopted
by its highest court. Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230
U. S. 100, 116; Fairfieldv. Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47, 52. The
Supreme Court of Washington in Peet v. Mills construed
the statute in question and we think its opinion plainly
supports the holding of the District Court and is in direct opposition to the conclusion reached by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The following excerpts from the
opinion will suffice to indicate its import:
"By this appeal, we are again called upon to review the
Workmen's Compensation Act of 1911 (Laws 1911, c.
74), under appellant's contention that the act is applicable only where recovery is sought upon the ground of
negligence of the employer.
t
..
The conclusion is evident that, in the enactment of this new law, the Legislature declared it to be the
policy of this State that every hazardous industry within
the purview of the act should bear the burden arising out
of injuries to its employ6s; and that it was the further
policy of the State to do away with the recognized evils
attaching to the remedies under existing forms of law
and to substitute a new remedy that should be ample,
full, and complete, reaching every injury sustained by
any workman while employed in any such industry, regardless of the cause of the injury or the negligence to
'which it might be attributed. We can conceive of no
language the Legislature might have employed that would
make its purpose and intent more ascertainable than that
made use of in the first section of the act. To say with

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

appellant that the intent of the act is limited to the abolishment of negligence as a ground of action against an employer only is to overlook and read out of the act and
its declaration of principles the economic thought sought
to be crystallized into law, that the industry itself was the
primal cause of the injury and, as such, should be made to
bear its burdens. . . . That in so doing the legislative mind was intent upon the abolishment of all causes
of action that may have theretofore existed, irrespective
of the persons in favor of whom or against whom such
right might have existed, is equally clear from the language of section 5 of the act, containing a schedule of
awards, and providing that each workman injured in the
course of his employment should receive certain compensation, and 'such payment shall be in lieu of any and all
rights of action whatsoever against any person whomsoever.' . ..
For these reasons we are of the opinion
that the compensation provided by the act in case of
injury to any workman in any hazardous occupation was
intended to be exclusive of every other remedy, and that
all causes of action theretofore existing except as they are
saved by the provisos of the act, are done away with."
Respondents' suggestion that the construction of the
act adopted by the trial court would cause it to conflict
with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, is without merit. They have raised no other question involving application of the Federal Constitution.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed and the action of the District Court affirmed.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

is of opinion that the statute

was properly construed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
and that its conclusions do not conflict with the opinion
of the state Supreme Court. He therefore dissents.

