SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. CAMPBELL.
239 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
CAMPBELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.

No. 53. Argued November 4, 1915.-Decided November 15, 1915.
Where the only questions are whether the carrier's rule was applicable
to the case and was properly applied, this court is not concerned
with the reasonableness of the rule.
Whether a rule of the carrier in regard to forfeiture of mileage books
is reasonable is a question for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Where the carrier's own rule provides that the mileage book can be
forfeited if presented for passage by anyone other than the original
purchaser the carrier cannot forfeit the book because the original
purchaser presents it for transportation of someone other than
himself.
The state court does not deny a Federal right to a railroad company
by simply holding it strictly to its own terms in connection with
mileage books.
94 So. Car. 95, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a railroad company
to forfeit a mileage book, and the construction of the rules
under which such a book was issued in this case, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. John K. Graves, with whom Mr. L. E. Jeffries was
on the brief for plaintiff in error:
In the opinion of the Supreme Court of South Carolina
no reference is made to the schedules, applicable in this
case, governing the sale and issuance of mileage books and
mileage exchange tickets, in force in pursuance of the Act
to Regulate Commerce. The effect of this act on the
ordinary rules of common law apparently was not considered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

239 U. S.

It is not entirely clear on what ground or grounds the
South Carolina court rested its opinion. It seems to hold
that the book and the ticket should not have been forfeited because the husband, the original purchaser of the
mileage book, in presenting them for his wife without
fraud, was not violating the provision as to forfeiture,
since the book and ticket were presented by the original
purchaser.
The court also seems to hold that the acts of the various
agents in exchanging the coupons for the exchange tickets
were such acts as to waive the provision as to forfeiture.
The provision of the tariff was clearly applicable in
this case, and the decision of the South Carolina Supreme Court in violation of its terms was clearly erroneous.
In support of the contentions of plaintiff in error, see
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; B. &
0. R. R. v. Hamburger, 155 Fed. Rep. 849; B. & 0. S. W.
R. R. v. Evans, 82 N. E. Rep. 773; Bitterman v. Louis. &
Nash. R. R., 207 U. S. 205; B. & M. R. R. v. Hooker, 233
U. S. 97; Chi. & Alton R. R. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 156; Gulf,
C. & S. F. R. R. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; Ill. Cent. R. R. v.
Henderson Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 441; Kans. City R. R. v.
Albers, 223 U. S. 573; Kans. City S. R. R. v. Carl, 227
U. S. 639; Marche v. Central R. R., 21 1. C. C. 195; M.,
K. & T. R. R. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657; Newton Gum
Co. v. C., B. & Q. R. R., 162 C. C. A. 341; N. Y. Cent. R. R.
v. United States, 212 U. S. 500; Penna. R. R. v. International Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184; St. Louis S. W. Ry. v.,
Burckett, 229 U. S. 603; Southern Ry. v. Harrison, 119
Alabama,' 539; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242;
Tex. & Pac. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Co., 204 U. S. 426;
United States v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599.
Mr. John G. Capers, with whom Mr. William G. Sirr'ine
was on the brief for defendant in error.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. CAMPBELL.
239 U. S.

101

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by Samuel J. Campbell against
the Southern Railway Company to recover damages for
the wrongful forfeiture of the plaintiff's mileage book.
The Company sought to justify the forfeiture under its
tariff regulations which had been duly filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The defense was overruled by the state court. 94 So. Car. 95.
The admitted facts are these: On November 20, 1910,
Mr. Campbell, being the owner of a thousand-mile coupon
book, or mileage book, purchased another mileage book
of the same sort from the agent of the Southern Railway
Company at Greensboro, North Carolina, and thereupon
presented both books to the agent of the Company and
obtained, in exchange for coupons, two 'mileage exchange
tickets' to Greenville, South Carolina. With these tickets
he and his wife traveled to Greenville, the tickets being
accepted by one of the Company's collectors. A few days
later he presented his mileage books to -the agent of the
Company at Greenville and obtained, for the proper number of coupons, two exchange tickets to Greensboro.
When he presented these tickets for the transportation of
himself and his wife, the ticket collector asked if he had
mileage books and required him to produce them. Upon
looking at the books the ticket collector returned one of
them to Mr. Campbell but forfeited the other, which contained unused coupons for six hundred miles. The exchange ticket, which had been issued for the coupons
taken from the book, was also forfeited, and the ticket
collector demanded and received payment in cash of the
fare for the plaintiff's wife.
The tariff regulations and conditions which related to.
mileage books, or mileage tickets, and were filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission were as follows:
I "Exchange Requirement.-Mileage coupons (except
as

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

noted below) will not'be honored for passage on trains or
steamers or in checking baggage (except from non-agency
stations and agency stations not open for the sale of
tickets) but must be presented at ticket office and there
exchanged for continuous passage ticket, which continuous passage ticket will be honored in checking baggage
and for passage when presented in connection with the
mileage ticket.
"Non-Transferable.--If a mileage ticket or ticket issued in, exchange for coupons therefrom be presented to
an agent or conductor by any other than the original purchaser, it will not be honored but will be forfeited, and
any agent or conductor of any line over which it reads
shall have the right to take up and cancel such ticket or
tickets."
A jury was waived, and the case was submitted to the
trial judge upon a stipulation that if judgment went for
the plaintiff he should recover the value of the mileage
book (twelve dollars) and twenty-five dollars damages.
Judgment was entered accordingly.
We are not concerned with the reasonableness of the
rule; that, if challenged, would be a question for the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The question now is
as to the application of the rule. Nor need we consider
the right of the ticket collector to demand payment for
the transportation of the plaintiff's wife. The case, as
the state court said, turns upon the right to forfeit the
mileage book with its unused coupons.
The condition expressed in the rule is that the mileage
book, or mileage ticket, as it is termed, shall be presented
by the original purchaser. The plaintiff was the original
purchaser and presented it. The Company seeks to construe the rule as if it read that the mileage book should be
forfeited if presented by the original purchaser for the
transportation of a person other than himself. The rule
does not so read. It was not made a ground of forfeiture

PROVIDENT SAVINGS ASS'N v. KENTUCKY.
239 U. S.

103

Syllabus.

that the original purchaser asked for more than he was
entitled to get. For example, when the plaintiff presented
his books at the station to procure tickets for himself and
wife in exchange for coupons, it could not be said that he

forfeited either of the books, or both, because he asked too
much. He was in no different position when he produced
the books before the conductor, with the tickets which the
Company's agent had given him in exchange for coupons.
He was still the original purchaser, and the provision for
forfeiture when the mileage book is presented by some
one else does not hit the case.
We cannot say that the state court denied a Federal
right when it held the Railway Company strictly to its
own terms.
Judgment affirmed.
PROVIDENT SAVINGS LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 328.

Argued October 20, 21, 1915.-Decided November 15, 1915.

The state court, having placed its decision sustaining a tax on the
ground that the corporation taxed was doing business within the
State, and hence liable under the statute taxing corporations carrying on business, this court need only consider the question of whether
the company was so transacting business as to render it subject to
the taxing power of the State, and need not consider whether another
statute under which the tax might have been levied was unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of the legislative contract under
which the corporation entered the State.
Whether acts done by a corporation at the time to which a tax relates
are of such a nature as to subject it to the local authority on the
ground that such, acts can only be done with the permission of the
State is a Federal question, and this court has authority to review the
decision of the state court in that respect.
The principle that taxation without jurisdiction violates the due

