OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

where trains are made up necessarily has a great number
'of tracks and switches close to one another (Randall v.
Balti. & Ohio R. R., 109 U. S. 478, 482); and certainly
the mere existence of such conditions is not enough to
support an inference of negligence where, as here, it is
necessary to utilize a public street. Both the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals felt constrained
to hold the evidence insufficient to carry the .question of
negligence to the jury, and, having examined the record,
we are unable to say that they reached a wrong result.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY are
of the opinion that upon the question of the defendant's
negligence,-the only question upon which the court
below ruled-there was sufficient evidence to go to the
jury, and therefore dissent.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. HAMBURGAMERIKANISCHE
PACKETFAHRT-ACTIEN
GESELLSCHAFT.
HAMBURG-AMERIKANISCHE PACKETFAHRTACTIEN GESELLSCHAFT, APPELLANTS, v.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 289, 332. Argued November 3, 4, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.

This court cannot pass upon questions which have, as an inevitable
legal consequence of the European War now flagrant, become moot.
This court takes judicial notice of the European War and that its'in-

UNITED STATES v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN CO. 467
239 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

evitable consequence has been to interrupt the steamship business
between this collntry and Europe.
It is a rule of this court based on fundamental principles of public
policy not to establish a rule for controlling predicted future conduct;
and it will not decide a case, involving a combination alleged to be
in violation of the Anti-Trust Act, which has become moot as a legal
consequence of war, because of probability of its being recreated
on the cessation of war. California v. San Pablo R. R., 149 U. S.
308.
The power of this court cannot be enlarged or its duty affected in regard
to the decision of a moot case by stipulation of parties or counsel.
Where a case to dissolve a combination alleged to be illegal under the
Anti-Trust Act has become moot and this court has thus been prevented from deciding it upon the merits, and the court below decided
against the Government, the course most consonant with justice is
to reverse, with directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice to
the Government in the future to assail any actual contract or combination deemed to offend the Anti-Trust Act.
216 Fed. Rep. 971, reversed.

TrE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890 and
the practice of this court in regard to cases which have
become moot, and the effect of the legal consequence of
war, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. G. Carroll Todd, Assistant to the Attorney General,
with whom Mr. Thurlow M. Gordon, Special Assistant to
the Attorney General, was on the brief for the United
States.
Mr. CharlesP. Spooner, with whom Mr. John C. Spooner
and Mr. James L. Bishop were on the brief for Hamburg
American Steamship Company.
Mr. Lucius H. Beers, with whom Mr. Allan B. A. Bradley was on the brief for Cunard Steamship Company and

others.
Mr. Charles C. Burlingham, with whom Mr. Roscoe H.
Hupper was on the brief for American Line and others.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.'

Mr. Joseph Larocque, with whom Mr. William G. Choate
and Mr. Nelson Shipman were on the brief, for North
German Lloyd and others.
Mr. Ralph James M. Bullowa for defendants Johnson
and Straus, agents of Russian East Asiatic Steamship
Company, Ltd., submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The United States on January 4, 1911, commenced this
suit to prevent the further execution of an agreement to
which the defendants were parties and which it was charged
constituted the foundation 'of an illegal combination in
violation of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, (26 Stat.
209, c. 647). The relief asked moreover in the nature of
things, embraced certain subsidiary agreements made
during the course of the execution of the main contract in
furtherance of its alleged prohibited result. The principal
agreement was made in 1908 to last until February 28,
1911, but was to continue in force thereafter from year
to year unless not later than December 1st of each year
a notice of the intention not to continue was given. On
December 3, 1910, however, just a month before this suit
was filed, the agreement in question was renewed for a
period of five years.
We give from the argument on behalf of the United
States a statement of the corporate defendants to the bill,
some of whom had become parties to the alleged illegal
combination by subsidiary agreement or agreements
made at a later date than the original contract.
. 1. "The Allan Line Steamship Company, Limited,
hereafter called the 'Allan Line,' a British corporation,
operating from Portland, Boston, and Philadelphia to
London, Liverpool, and Glasgow and return.

UNITED STATES v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN CO. 469
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

2. "International Mercantile Marine Company, a New
Jersey corporation, operating from New York and Philadelphia to Liverpool and Southampton and return.
3. "Its ships, together with those of its subsidiary company, defendant International Navigation Company,
Limited, also operating from New York and Philadelphia
to Liverpool and Southampton, . . . are referred
to as the 'American Line.' Besides International Navigation Company, Limited, it also controls through stock
ownership the defendants British and North Atlantic
Steam Navigation Company, Limited, Societe Anonyme
de Navigation Belge Americaine, and Oceanic Steam
Navigation Company, Limited.
4. "British and North Atlantic Steam Navigation Company, Limited, a British corporation, hereafter called
the 'Dominion Line,' operating from Portland to Liverpool and return.
5. "Societe Anonyme de Navigation Belge Americaine,
a Belgian corporation, hereafter called the 'Red Star Line,'
operating from New York and Philadelphia to Antwerp
and return.
6. "Oceanic Steam Navigation Company, Limited, a
British corporation, hereafter called the 'White Star
Line,' operating from New York and Boston to Liverpool
and Southampton and return.
7. "The Anchor Line (Henderson Brothers), Limited, a
British corporation, hereafter called the 'Anchor Line,'
operating from New York to Glasgow and return.
8. "Canadian Pacific Railway Company, a Canadian
corporation, operating a regular line of steamships, hereafter called the 'Canadian Pacific Line,' from Montreal,
Quebec, and St. John in the Dominion of Canada to Liverpool, England, and return. It also owns and operates a
transcontinental railroad which, partly through branches
running into the United States and partly through connections with the Wabash and other American railroads,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

transports a substantial proportion (12%) of its steamship passengers to and from points in this country.
9. "The Cunard Steamship Company, Limited, a
British corporation, hereafter called the 'Cunard Line,'
operating from New York and Boston to Liverpool in
England, Fiume in Hungary, and Trieste in Austria, and
return.
10. "Hamburg-Americkanische Packetfahrt-Actien Gesellschaft, a German corporation, hereafter called the
'Hamburg-American Line,' operating from New York to
Hamburg and return.
11. "Nord Deutscher Lloyd, a German corporation,
hereafter called the 'North German Lloyd Line,' operating
from New York, Baltimore, and Galveston to Bremen and
return.
12. "Nederlandsh-Amerikaansche Stoomvaart Maatschapij (Holland-Amerika Lijn), a Netherlands corporation, ,hereafter called the 'Holland-American Line,'
operating between New York and Rotterdam and return.
13. "Russian East Asiatic Steamship Company, a
Russian corporation, hereafter called the 'RussianAmerica Line,' operating between New York and Libau,
Russia, and return."
The individuals named as defendants were the principal
officers and agents in this country of the corporate defendants. We extract from the argument on behalf of the
Government the following statement of the main provisions of the principal agreement.
"(1) The parties guarantee to each other certain
definite percentages of the entire steerage traffic carried by
them both eastbound and westbound between European
ports and the United States and Canada, except Mediterranean passengers.
"(2) Any line exceeding its allotment must pay into the
pool a compensation price of £4 for each excess passenger,
which sum is to be paid proportionately to the line or lines

UNITED STATES v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN CO.
239 U. S.

471

Opinion of the Court.

which have not carried their full quota. It is expressly
stated that 'this provision 'forms one of the main features
of the entire contract.'
"(3) Each line must make a weekly report of the number of steerage passengers carried, and from these the
secretary of the pool compiles weekly statements showing
the pool position of each line. He also prepares each
month provisional accounts of the compensation due from
lines which have exceeded their quota. This must be paid
immediately on pain of heavy penalties. Final settlements
are made at the end of each year.
"(4) Each line undertakes to arrange its rates and
service in such manner that the number of steerage passengers it actually carries shall correspond as nearly as possible with the number allotted to it by the contract. If any
line exceeds its proportion it is in duty bound to adopt
measures calculated to bring about a correct adjustment.
The other lines may either await the action of the individual line or a majority of the lines representing 75 per
cent. of the pool shares can innediately order rates on a
plus line to be raised or rates on a minus line to be lowered,

and from this order there is no appeal. It is expressly
stated, however, that 'all parties were unanimously of the
opinion that the adjustment is, whenever practicable, to
be effected not by reducing the rates of one Line but on the
contrary by raisingthe rates of one or several of the Lines.
"(5) No line has the right to alter its steerage rates
without having previously informed the secretary; i. e., all
lines are bound to maintain existing rates until the other
pool members are notified.
"(6) No circulars or publications shall be issued by any
line reflecting upon or instituting comparisons with any
other conference line unfavorable to the latter, and no
party shall support (advertise in) any newspaper which
shall systematically attack any conference line.
"(7) To insure the faithful performance of the agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

ment, each line deposits with the secretary a promissory
note in the amount of £1,000 for each per cent. of traffic
allotted to it in the pool. From this amount penalties
may be collected ranging from £250 for smaller infractions
to the forfeiture of the entire deposit if the line withdraws
from the agreement before its expiration, refuses to pay
compensation money, or assists directly or indirectly any
opposition line.
"(8) New lines may be admitted or the terms of the
agreement altered only by unanimous vote, unless otherwise provided in the contract.
"(9) To assist in the carrying out of the agreement a
Secretary was appointed.
"(10) Regular meetings are to be held alternately at
London and Cologne for the purpose of carrying out this
agreement and agreements collateral thereto. These
meetings constitute what is called The Atlantic Conference.
"Representatives of the Atlantic Conference Lines
likewise meet in New York in what is called the American
Atlantic Conference or New York Conference."
It is to be observed in addition that the agreement
expressly provided that the withdrawal of any one of the
lines from the contract should release all others from all
future obligation unless the others agreed among themselves to continue.
To the elucidation of the view we take of the case it
suffices to say that as the result of the answers of the
defendants the issues which arose for decision were twofold in character: Did the Anti-Trust Act relate to the
business of ocean transportation with which the assailed
agreement and those subsidiary to it were concerned; and
if so, did the agreements and the conduct of the defendants
under them, constitute a violation of the provisions of the
Anti-Trust Act?
The court below, although deciding that the ocean

UNITED STATES v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN CO. 473
239 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transportation covered by the main agreement was under
the control of the Anti-Trust Act, yet held that the assailed contract and the action of the parties under it were
not within the terms of the act and therefore that the
complaint of the Government on that subject was without
foundation. The court, however, concluded that a certain
subsidiary agreement which had been entered into in the
process of the execution of the original agreement had
given rise to a practice which was reprobated by the AntiTrust Act and the further execution of such agreement
and the carrying out of the practice under it were by the
decree forbidden. The court reached these conclusions
upon opinions formed concerning the nature and character
of ocean transportation, with which the agreement was
concerned, the evils which had existed in the traffic and
which it was the purpose of the agreement to remedy, the
practice of the commercial world in dealing with such
transportation in the past, the benefit which had resulted
to commerce from the execution of the agreement, the
reflex light thrown upon its intent and object by the
reasonable rates which had been applied in its execution
and many other conditions which had come to pass as a
result of the agreement tending to the amelioration of the
conditions of steerage travel and the resulting benefaction
to the safety, comfort and health of the millions of human
beings 'traveling by steerage, to which class of traffic alone
the contract related. (216 Fed. Rep. 971.)
The contentions which presumably were urged in the
court below and which it is deemed by the parties here
arise for decision will at once appear by giving a brief
statement concerning those made on this appeal by the
United States and by the defendants as appellees or on a
cross appeal. On behalf of the United States it is insisted
that the provisions of the Anti-Trust Act govern the subject, that the terms of the agreement constitute a plain
violation of that act, that the conduct of the parties under

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

it add additional force to the considerations arising from
the text of the contract since it demonstrates that the
purpose of the agreement was to destroy competition, to
acquire dominion over-rates and to fix them as the result of
monopoly, and that it is wholly irrelevant to inquire
whether in executing the wrongful powers which were
acquired by the contract the parties were beneficent in
their action, since what the act forbids is the monopoly
and the combination for the purpose of obtaining monopoly and there is no distinction in the act between a good
monopoly and a bad one. On the other hand, the contentions of the defendants are as follows: First, that conceding the power, it is not to be assumed, in the absence of
express declaration to that effect, that the purpose of
Congress in the Anti-Trust Act was to extend its authority
into foreign countries to prevent the execution in such
countries, of contracts which were there legal and which
were intended, in view of the conditions there prevailing,
to better enable the discharge by ocean carriers of their
duty. Second, that it appears from subsequent legislation
of Congress that it *as not its intention to deal with ocean
transportation from and to foreign countries by the AntiTrust Act, since such transportation was dealt with in
subsequent legislation in a manner which persuasively
leads to such conclusion. Tariff Act of August 27, 1894,
c. 349, §§ 73-77, 28 Stat. 509, 570; Tariff Act of July 24,
1897, c. 11, § 34, 30 Stat. 151, 213; Joint Resolution,
September 19, 1914, No. 43, 38 Stat. 779. Third, that in
fully investigating and considering the question whether
ocean transportation to and from foreign countries was
included in the Anti-Trust Act, in an elaborate report a
committee of the House of Representatives had expressed
conclusions in conflict with the view that the act did apply
and had recommended the adoption of legislation to
guard against evils in such traffic, if any, and which
legislation, if adopted, would be in a large sense incompati-

UNITED STATES v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN CO.
239 U. S.

475

Opinion of the Court.

ble with the conclusion that the Anti-Trust Act was applicable to such transportation.
While this mere outline shows the questions which are
at issue and which would require to be considered if we
had the right to decide the controversy, it at once further
demonstrates that we may not, without disregarding our
duty, pass upon them because of their absolute want of
present actuality, that is, because of their now moot
character as an inevitable legal consequence springing
from the European war which is now flagrant-a matter of
which we take judicial notice. Montgomery v. United
States, 15 Wall. 395; United States v. Lapne, 17 Wall. 601;
7 Moore's International Law Digest, 244, 250. The legal
proposition is not in substance controverted, but it is
urged in view of the character of the questions and the
possibility or probability that on the cessation of war the
parties will resume or recreate their asserted illegal combination, we should now decide the controversies in order
that by operation of the rule to be established any attempt
at renewal of or creation of the combination in the future
will be rendered impossible. But this merely upon a
prophecy as to future conditions invokes the exercise of
judicial power not to decide an existing controversy, but
to establish a rule for controlling predicted future conduct, contrary to the elementary principle which was thus
stated in California v. San Pablo & Tulare R. R., 149
U. S. 308, 314: "Theduty of this court, as of every judicial
tribunal, is limited to determining rights of persons or of
property, which are actually controverted in the particular
case before it. When, in determining such rights, it becomes necessary to give an opinion upon a question of
law, that opinion may have weight as a precedent for
future decisions. But the court is not empowered to decide moot questions or abstract propositions, or to declare,
for the government of future cases, principles or rules of.
law which cannot affect the result as to the thing in issue

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

239 U. S.

in the case before it. No stipulation of parties or counsel,
whether in the case before the court or in any other case,
can, enlarge the power, or affect the duty, of the court in
this regard."
See also Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 251; Cheong Ah Moy v.
United States, 113 U. S. 216; Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S. 547;
Jones v. Montague, 194 U. S.147; Security Life Insurance
Co. v. Prewitt, 200 U. S. 446; Richardson v. McChesney,
218 U. S. 487; Stearns v. Wood, 236 U. S. 75.
Our attention has indeed been directed to a recent decision in United States v. PrinceLine, Limited, 220 Fed. Rep.
230, where although it was recognized that "The combination against which this proceeding is directed, composed of two British and two German steamship companies, has been practically dissolved as a result of the
European War," and the questions presented "have become largely academic," the court nevertheless proceeded
to consider and dispose of the case on the merits, observing
in conclusion, however: "In view of the fact that the logic
of events has turned this investigation into an autopsy,
instead of a determination of live issues it seems unnecessary to discuss the persuasiveness of the proofs," etc.
But we cannot give our implied sanction to what was thus
done or accept the persuagiveness of the reasoning upon
which the action was based in view of the settled decisions
of this court to the contrary and the fundamental principles of public policy upon which they are based. In fact
at this term, although we were pressed to take jurisdiction
of a cause in a capital case after the death penalty had
been inflicted on the accused, We declined to do -so and
dismissed for want of jurisdiction because the case had
become a moot one. Director of Prisons v. Court of First
Instance of the Province of Cavite, post, p. 633.
Nor is there anything in United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Association, 166 U. S.290, and Southern Pacific
Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN CO.
239 U. S.

477

Opinion of the Court.

498, which conflicts with this fundamental doctrine. In
the first, the Trans-MissouriCase, a combination between
railroads charged to be illegal was by consent dissolved
and it was held that in view of the continued operation of
the railroads and the relations between them their mere
consent did not relieve of the duty to pass upon the pending charge of illegality under the statute of their previous
conduct, since by the mere volition of the parties the combination could come into existence at any moment.
Leaving aside some immaterial differences, in terms the
ruling in the Southern Pacific Case was based upon the
decision in the Trans-Missouri Case. Here on the contrary the business in which the parties to the combination
were engaged has by force of events beyond their control
ceased and by the same power any continued relation
concerning it between them has become unlawful and
impossible. The difference between this and the TransMissouri Case was clearly laid down in Mills v. Green, 159
U. S. 651, where after announcing the general rule as to the
absence of authority to consider a mere moot question
and referring to possible exceptions resulting from the
fact that the want of actuality had arisen either from the
consent of the parties or the action of a defendant, it was
declared (p. 654): "But if the intervening event is owing
to the plaintiff's own act or to a power beyond the control
of either party, the court will stay its hand."
Although it thus follows that there axe no issues on the
merits before us which we have a right to decide, it yet
remains to be determined what our order should be with
reference to the decree below rendered, which as we have
seen was against the Government and in favor of the
assailed combination because it was found not to be within
the prohibitions of the Anti-Trust Act. As established by
the ruling in South Spring Hill Gold Co. v. Amador Gold
Co., 145 U. S. 300, our conclusion on such subject must be
reached without at all considering the merits of the cause

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

239 U. S.

and must be based solely upon determining what will be
"most consonant to justice" in view of the conditions and
circumstances of the particular case. Coming to consider
the question in that light and in view of the nature and
character of the conditions which have caused the case
to become moot, we are of opinion that the ends of justice
exact that the judgment below should not be permitted to
stand when without any fault of the Government there is
no power to review it upon the merits, but that it should
be reversed and the case be remanded to the court below
with directions to dismiss the bill without prejudice to the
right of the Government in the future to assail any actual
contract or combination deemed to offend against the
Anti-Trust Act.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of these cases.

MYLES SALT COMPANY, LIMITED, v. BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS OF THE IBERIA AND ST.
MARY DRAINAGE DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 141. Argued December 16, 1915.-Decided January 10, 1916.
The legislature of a State may constitute drainage districts and define
their boundaries, or may delegate such authority to local administrative bodies; and such action, unless palpably arbitrary and a plain
abuse, does not violate the due process provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Houck v. Little River District, ante, p. 254.
Action of the local administrative body in including land within a
drainage district which is palpably arbitrary, such inclusion not being
for the purpose of benefiting such land directly but for the purpose of
obtaining revenue therefrom, amounts to deprivation of property
without due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment.

