OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

requirement of the proviso that such assessment should be
made in all cases where coverings of any kind, in which mer-

chandise was imported, were "of any material or form designed, to evade duties thereon, or designed for use otherwise
than iM the bona,je
transportation of good&to the United
States."
It was held by the collector, and properly held, we submit,
that the prepared surface put on each match box contained in
the importation showed an intention that the box should perform an important, not to say necessary, function in the consumption of its contents.
Indeed, it is clear that safety matches would, hardly be merchantable without a prepared surface on each box. And while
the prepared surface on the parlor-match box is not so necessary, it answers an important end in facilitating ignition, and
thereby tending to protect the walls and furniture of houses
from being used for that purpose.
It would seem, therefore, that in assessing duty, as stated,
the collector acted in conformity to the law.
fr. Henry Aplington for defendant in error.
Smith was with him on the brief.

_Mb. Nlelson

THE CHIEF JusTIE: The judgment is affirmed upon the
authority of Oberteufer v. Robertson, 116 U. S. 499.
Affirmed.

KENNEDY v. McKEE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT, COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 126. Submitted December 16, 1891. - Decided January4,1892.

The statutes of Texas in relation to assignments for the benefit of creditors, 1 Sayles's Civil Stats. 61, 62, 68, Arts. 65a., 65c. and 65s., do not contemplate an assignment of partnership property only by partners for the
benefit of creditors, and while such an assignment may be valid as to'

KENNEDY v.

fcKEE.

Statement of the Case.
creditors who accept its provisions, creditors who do not may levy upon
the property conveyed by it, subject, it may be, to the rights of the
accepting creditors.
There being no brief filed for defendant in error, and no argument made
in his behalf, the court confines its consideration of the case to the
decision of the questions raised by the counsel for plaintiff in error, without considering the case in any other aspect.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This action was brought upon the official bond of the late
James A. McKee, marshal of the United States for the Northern District of Texas, to recover damages for the seizure of
certain goods, wares and merchandise, under attachments
sued out from the court below, January 25, 1884, by Crow,
Hargardine & Co. and Goodbar, White & Co., respectively,
against the property of Moseley Brothers, a firm composed of
W. P. Moseley, S. P. Moseley, R. T. Moseley, and F.* I.
Moseley and doing business in the counties of Grayson and
Limestone, Texas.
The plaintiff alleged that the property in question was not
subject to those attachments, but belonged at the time, and
-was in the rightful, exclusive possession of W. E. loyle, under
and by virtue of a deed of assignment executed January 23,
1884.
That deed of assignment was as follows:
"Tin STA&TE OF T~xAs,
"Limestone County.
"Know all men by these presents that we, Moseley Brothers,
a mercantile firm composed of W. P. Moseley, S. P. Moseley,
R. T. Moseley and F. P. Moseley, and doing business in the
cities of Mexia and Denison, said State, in consideration of
the sum of one dollar to us in hand paid by W. E. Doyle, of
said county and State, have this day transferred, assigned and
set over, and by these presents *dotransfer, assign and: set over,
to the said W. E. Doyle, assignee, all of our property of every.
character and description, real and personal and mixed, a more
complete and perfect description of which property will hereafter and as soon as it can be done be filed with said assignee,

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

in trust, nevertheless, and for the following purposes and uses,
to wit: Whereas, the said Moseley Bros. are justly indebted to
various parties- a more complete description of the names
and amounts due to each will be hereafter filed with said
assignee - and which indebtedness we are unable to pay, and,
being desirous of securing to our said creditors an equitable
and just distribution of our said property: Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, we hereby authorize
and empower the said W. IE. Doyle to take full and exclusive control of the property herein conveyed and transferred,
and to convert the same into money and apply the proceeds to
the payment and satisfaction of our said indebtedness in the
proportion of the respective claims of such of our creditors as
shall accept these presents after paying all proper and necessary costs incident to the execution of this trust; and the said
Doyle is hereby authorized and empowered to sign all the
deeds, conveyances, acquittances and receipts, and to institute
and defend any and all suits necessary and proper for the full
execution of the trust herein created, provided that there is
reserved'out of the operations of this instrument such property
as is exempt from forded sale under the constitution and laws
of this State.
"Witness our hands this January 23, 1884.
"(Signed)
S. P. MOSELEY.
tc
cc
R. T. -MOSELEY.
"

"

MOSELEY BROS."

On the day this 'deed bears date, S. P. Moseley and R. T.
Moseley appeared before a notary public of Limestone County.
and severally acknowledged that they had executed and delivered it for themselves and for the firm of Moseley Brothers, for
the purposes and considerations stated in it. And it appears
from the certificate of the county clerk of that county that
the deed, with the notary's certificate, was filed in his office
for record at nine o'clock on the morning of January 24, 1884,
and was duly recorded, the same day, at ten o'clock.
The petition alleged, among other things, that, on the 23d day
of January, 1884, the firm of Moseley Brothers was insolvent,

K(ENNEDY v. McKEE.
Statement of the Case.

and being insolvent, S. P. M oseley and R. T. Moseley, on that
day, "for themselves and for said firm, in their own names
and in the name of said firm, with the knowledge and consent
of their copartners, the said W. P. Moseley and the said F. P.
Moseley, the former being sick and absent and the latter
'absent from the county," made, executed and delivered said
deed to W. E. Doyle, who duly qualified as assignee; that
"the making of said deed of assignment had been discussed
and agreed to by all the members of said firm before it was
made, and was ratified immediately afterwards and before any
adverse right had been acquired by each of said pairtners who
did not sign the same individually; "-that "no property was
owned by said firm, or any of the members thereof ilot conveyed thereby except such as was exempted from forced sale
by the constitution and laws of Texas;" that after the levy of
the above attachments Doyle resigned the place of assignee,
and was succeeded by the plaintiff, who was appointed assignee
by the judge of the county court upon the written application
of the accepting creditors of Moseley Brothers; and that the
plaintiff accepted the position of assignee, giving bond and
qualifying as required by law, and becoming the lawful
assignee of Moseley Brothers.
The case was heard below upon demurrers, general and
special, filed by the defendants. The special demurrer showed
that the petition was excepted to as insufficient in law upon
the following grounds: 1, one or more partners could not
make an assignment for the benefit of creditors that would
bind the copartnership, and pass the property of the firm;
2, an assignment by two of the partners only could not be
ratified by the partners not signing or executing the same, so
as to interfere with rights of cretditors accruing before such
ratification, and any pretended ratification which would operate as an assignment of real estate could not take place by parol
or by parol ratification; 3, the deed, signed and executed by two
of the partners only, could not and did not purport to convey
and pass the individual and separate property of the partners
not signing it, and, consequently, the deed was void upon its.
face; 4, the deed does not, on its face, show that it was made
VOL. CXtLI-39

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by loseley Brothers as insolvent debtors, or by them in contemplation of insolvency.
The demurrers were sustained, and, the plaintiff declining to
amend, the action was dismissed with costs to the defendants.
The statutes of Texas in force when the above assignment
was made provided: "Art. 65a. Every assignment made by
an insolvent debtor, or in contemplation of insolvency, for the
benefit of his creditors, shall provide, except as herein otherwise provided, for a distribution of all of his real and personal
estate other than that which is by law exempt from execution,
among all his creditors in proportion to their respective claims,
and however made or expresshd, shall have the effect aforesaid,
and shall be construed to pass all such estate, whether specified
therein or not, and every assignment shall be proved or acknowledged and certified and recorded in the same manner as
provided by law in conveyances of real estate or other property." "Art. 65c. Any debtor desiring to do so, may make
an assignment for the benefit of such of his creditors only as
will consent to accept their proportional share of his estate,
and discharge hih from their respective claims, and in such
case the benefitt of the assignment shall be limited and restricted
to the creditors consenting thereto, the debtor shall thereupon
be and stand discharged from all further liabilities to such consenting creditors on account of their respective claims, and
when paid they shall execute and deliver to the assignee for
,the debtor a release therefrom; provided, that such debtor
shall not be discharged from liabilities to a creditor who does
not receive as much as one-third of the amount due and allowed in his favor as a valid claim against the estate of such
debtor." "Art. 658. Any attempted preference of one creditor or creditors of such assignor shall be deemed fraudulent
and without effect." Act of Maich 24, 1879, as amended
April 7, 1883, Sayles's Texas Civil Stat. vol. 1, pp. 61, 62, 68.
XArb.
Sawnie Roberotsc

for plaintiff in error.

The only ground upon which the invalidity of this assignment can be asserted is, the failure to embrace in it the private
property of all of the members of the firm, as well as the

KENNEDY v. McKEE.
Opihion of the Court.

partnership property. It is contended, in support of the judgment of the Circuit Court, that in the case of Donoko v. Fish,
58 Texas, 164, it was held that no assignment is good under
the Texas statute, unless it conveys the whole of the property
of the partner and 6f every, member thereof not exempt from
forced sale.
There is an expression in the opinion in that case that gives
some color to this claim; but an examination of the case will
show that the assignment then before the court provided for
releases by the creditors, which the one now in controversy
does not do.
The distinction in this respect between the two classes of
assignments is apparent. When a release is exacted of a creditor, the whole of the property that is subject to the demands
of the creditor should be surrendered by the assignment. On
the other hand, when no release i§ exacted -when the creditor surrenders no right or remedy - no good reason exists
why the assignment should not stand good for such property
as it conveys for the beiefit of all of the creditors alike rather
than be subjected alone to the demands of a single attaching
creditor.
The doctrine contended for has not been announced by the
Supreme Court of Texas in a single case where the assignment
in question was like the one now before the court -one for
the equal benefit of all creditors without exacting a release.
On the contrary, every case subsequent to Donoho v. Fish
Bros. & Co. has carefully limited the rule to assignments that
exact releases. Baylor County v. C'raig, 69 Texas, 330; Turner
v. Douglass, 7 Texas, 619; Still v. Focke, 66 Texas, 715; Coffln
v. Douglas, 61 Texas, 406, 410; Shoe Co. v. Ferrell, 68 Texas,
638.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JusTion HARLAN, after stating the facts as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

As no brief has been filed in behalf of the defendants in
error, and as we are not informed by the record of the precise

OOTOBEjt TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ground upon which the court below proceeded, we will restrict
our examination of this case to the single ground upon which
the plaintiff' in error questions the correctness of the judgment.
After referring to the provisions of the above statute, he says
that the only ground upon which the invalidity of the assigninent of January 23, 1884, can be asserted is the failure to
embrace in it the private property of all the members of the
firm as well as the property of the partnership. We take this
to be a concession that the deed did not pass the private property of the individual members of the firm. This concession
was, we think, required by a reasonable irterpretation of that
,instrument. The words used import an assignment by the
firm of only firm property to pay the debts due by the firm
to such creditors as would accept the provisions of the deed.
So that the inquiry is, whether the statute relating to assignments for the benefit of creditors embraced such a deed as the
one in question. We lay out of view the allegation in the
petition that no property was owned by Moseley Brothers or
by any of the members of the.firm that was not conveyed by
the deed, except such as was exempted from.sale by law, because the officer, having in his hands an attachment against
property, so conveyed, can only be guided, in the absence of
actual notice, by the legal effect of the deed. As said in
Donoho v. Fish B'os. & Co., 58 Texas, 164, 166, 167, "a deed
which purports to convey only such property as the makers
thereof own as copartners cannot be held to pass the title to
any other without making for the makers of the deed a contract which they never intended." Besides, the allegation
referred to does not distinctly state that the several partners
owned no property in their respective individual rights. It is
rather the statement of a legal conclusion, namely, that all
the property which the assignors owned, whether as partners
or in their respective individual rights, not exempt from forced
sale, was conveyed by the deed of assignment; whereas, as we
have stated, the words of the deed do not embrace any property, except such as the firm of Moseley Brothers owned.
In Donoho v. Fish.Br'os. & Co., which was the case of an
assignment by a partnership of partnership property for the'

KENNEDY v. McKEE.

613.'

Opinion of the Court.

benefit of such creditors as would accept its provisions and
release the debtors, the court said: "Such an assignment is
not contemplated by the act, even if there were no restriction
in it upon the right of all creditors to participate in the proceeds of the sale of the property by requiring a release of the
debtor; for the act contemplates that all of the property, real
and personal, of the debtors making the assignment, except
such as is exempt from forced sale, whether the same be part-.
nership property or such as is owned, by each partner in his
own individual right, shall pass by the assignment. The law
does not undertake to make assignments for debtors; it provides how an assignment may be made, and aids and makes
complete an assignment which evidences an intention of the
debtor to comply with its provisions." After Observing thatif the deed of assignment purported to convey all the property
belonging to the .members of a firm, however defective in
form, it would pass not only the property each partner owned
in his individual right, but also such as they owned in partnership, the court proceeded: "If, however, copartners could
under the act make an assignment of partnership property
only for the benefit of the creditors of the firm alone,
there would be an insuperable objection to such an assignment
containing a clause requiring a release of the debtors by the
creditors as a condition to the right to participate in the proceeds of the assigned property.
.
.
I e who wants the
benefit of the act by which he seeks to be released from his
just debt, without full payment, must comply with the act by
conveying to the assignee all of the property required to be
conveyed, whether the same be owned by him individually, or
as a member of a firm, and if he does not do so by the terms
of his deed aided by the law, his assignment is void and interposes no obstacle to' creditors in collecting their debts by usual
process."
Subsequently, in Coffln v. Douglas, 61 Texas, 406, 407, the
Supreme Court of Texas said: "In the case of -Donokov. Fis
Bros. & Co., 58 Texas, 164, it was held that an assignment
made by partners, which did not purport to pass title to all
the property owned by the partnership, and by the members

OCTBER TEMIE, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

thereof in their separatp rights, and not exempted from forced
sale, could not be sustained as a valid assignment under the
act of March 24, 1879." So in Still v. Focke, 66 Texas, 715,
723: "A, partnership may make an assignment for the benefit
of creditors, but in such case, the property of the partnership,
and the property of each member of it, which is subject to
forced sale, must pass by the assignment." See also Turner
v. Douglass,77 Texas, 619, 620, 621.
It is, however, contended by the plaintiff that Donoho v.
Fish Bros. & Co., and the other cases cited, were cases of
deeds of assignment of firm property only, which required
creditors, accepting their provisions, to discharge the debtors
from their respective claims; whereas, the deed here in question did not exact releases from the accepting creditors. There
is no good reason, it is argued, why a deed, which does not
require releases from creditors as a condition of participating
in the benefits of an assignment, "should not stand good for
such property as it conveys for the benefit of all the creditors
alike rather than be subjected alone to the demands of a single
attaching creditor." We cannot assent to the interpretation
so placed by plaintiff upon the cases cited. It may Wvell be
doubted whether the requirement in the deed of assignment,
that the proceeds of the property shall be applied to the payment and satisfaction of the firm's indebtedness "in the proportion of the respective claims of such of our creditors as
shall accept these presents," does not import that such creditors must release the assignors; otherwise the reference to
accepting creditors was meaningless. Independently of this
view, the Supreme Court of Texas .distinbtly holds, in the cases
cited, that the statute in question did not contemplate an assignment by partners for the benefit of creditors of partnership property only, that is, such an assignment is not provided
for by, and cannot be administered under, that statute. An
assignment of that character may be valid as between the
assignors and the creditors who accept its provisions. But no
reason is given other than the one above stated - which we
deem insufficient -why such an assignment would be an obstacle in the way of creditors who do not accept its provisions,

UNITED STATES v. ALABAMA RAILROAD CO.

615

Syllabus.

from collecting their debts in the ordinary modes prescribed
by law, or why the marshal might not, in the discharge of his
duty, have levied the attachments in his hands upon the property in dispute, subject, it may be, to the rights of creditors
who accepted the proceeds of the property covered by the
deed. The issue in the present action is not, and could not be,
whether Crow, Hargardine & Co. and Goodbar, White & Co.
had sufficient grounds for suing out their attachments against
the property of Moseley Brothers, nor as to the duty of the
marshal to execute them by levying upon any property or interest in property that was subject to an attachment issued against
the property of that firm. The issue is as to the authority of
that officer to seize, as the property of the firm of Moseley
Brothers, the particular property embraced by the deed of January 23, 1884. We have seen that no title passed to Doyle,
the assignee, in virtue of the statute regulating assignments
for the benefit of creditors; and as the contrary view is the
only ground upon which the correctness of the judgment below
seems to be questioned in this court, we need not consider the
case in any other aspect.
Judgment affizrned.

UNITED STATES ,?. ALABAMA GREAT SOUTHERN
RAILROAD COMPANY,
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 749.

Submitted Jauuary 8, 1892.-

Decided January 18, 1892.

When the Executive Department charged with the execution of a statute
gives a construction to it, and acts upon that construction for a series
of years, the court looks with disfavor upon a change whereby parties
who have contracted with the government on the faith of the old construction may be injured; especially when it is attempted to make. the
change retroactive, and to require from the contractor repayment of
moneys paid to him under the former construction.
The postal appropriation act of July 12, 1876, c. 179, fixed a rate of pay to
railroads for carrying the mails, and provided that roads constructed in
whole or in part by a land grant, conditioned that mails should be transported at a rate to be fixed by Congress, should receive only 80 per cent

