COUNSELEAIN

'.

HITCHCOCK.

Syllabus.

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
APPERA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1026. Argued December 9,10, 1891.-

Decided January 11, 1892.

Under the 5th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which
declares that "no person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal
case to be a witness against himself," where a person is under examination before a grand jury, in an investigation into certain alleged violations of the interstate commerce act of February 4, 1887, 24 Stat. 379,
and the amendatory act of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855, he is not obliged
to answer questions where he states that his answers might tend to
criminate him, although § 860 of the Revised Statutes provides that no
evidence given by him shall be in any manner used against him, in any
court of the United States, in any criminal.proceeding.
The case before the grand jury was a criminal case.
The meaning of the constitutional provision is not merely that a person
shall not be compelled to be a witness against himself 'in a criminal
prosecution against himself; but its object is to insure that a person
shall not be compelled, when acting as a witness in any investigation, to
give testimony which may tend to show that he himself has committed
a crime.
The ruling in People v. Kelly, 24 N. Y. 74, that the words" criminal case"
mean only a criminal prosecution against the witness himself, disapproved.
The protection afforded by § 860 is not co-extensive with the constitutional
provision.
Adjudged cases on this subject, in"courts of the United States, and of the
States, reviewed.
As the manifest purpose of the constitutional provisions, both of the States
and of the United States, is to prohibit the compelling of testimony of a
self-criminating kind from a party or a *itness, the liberal construction
which must be placed on constitutional provisions for the protection of
personal rights, would seem to require that the constitutional guaranties,
however differently worded, should have as far as possible the same
interpretation.
It is a reasonable construction of the constitutional provision, that the
witness is protected from being compelled to disclose the circumstances
of his offence, or the sources from which, or the means by which, evidence of its commission, or of his connection with it, may be obtained,
or made effectual for his conviction, without using his answers as direct
admissions against him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
No statute which leaves the party or witness subject to prosecution, after
he answers the criminating questio4 put to him, can have the effect of
supplanting the privilege conferred by the constitution.
In view of the constitutional provision, a statutory enactment, to be valid,
must afford absolute immunity against future prosecution for the offence
to which the question relates.
The witnesg, having been committed to custody for his refusal to answer, is
entitled to be discharged on habeas coepus.

ON the 21st of November, 1890, while the grand jury in
attendance upon the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois was engaged in investigating
and inquiring into certain alleged violations, in that district,
of an act of Congress entitled "An act to regulate commerce,"
approved February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, and the
amendments thereto, approved March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat.
'855, by the officers and agents of the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railway Company, and by the officers and agents
of the Chicago, St. Paul and Kansas City Railway Company,
and by the officers and agents of the Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railroad Company, ana the officers and agents of
various other railroad companies having lines of road in that
district, one .Charles Counselman appeared before the grand
jury, in response to a subpoena served upon him, and after having been duly sworn, testified as follows:
"Q. Your name is Charles Counselman?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. You are the sole member of Charles Counselman &
Co.?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Engaged in the grain and commission business in 'the
city of Chicago ?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Have you been a receiver of grain from the West
during the past two years?
"A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Over what roads did you ship grain received by you
during the present summer of 1890 ?
"A. The Rock Island and Burlington, principally.
"Q. From what States was most of the grain shipped?

COUNSELMAM

v. HITCHCOCK.

Statement of the Case.

"A. From Kansas and Nebraska, I think.
"Q. What did your receipts in bushels amount to of corn
in the months of May, June and July, 1890?
"A. I have no idea;. I could not tell you.
"Q. Five hundred thousand bushels a month?
"A. I cannot tell you.
"Q. How many men have you employed during the last
year? What is the usual number of men employed in connection with your business?
"A. I have, I think, six or seven men in my office.
"Q. Have you during the past year, Mr, Counselman,
obtained a rate for the transportation of your grain qn any of
the railroads coming to Chicago, from p6ints outside of this
State, less than the tariff or open rate?
"A. That I decline to answer, Mr. Milchrist, on the ground
that it might tend to criminate me.
"Q. During the past year have you received rates upon the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific from points outside of the
State to the city of Chicago, at less than the tariff rates?
"A. That I decline to answer on the same ground.
"Q. I will ask you the sane question with reference to the
Burlington.
"A. I answer in the same way.
"Q. The same with reference to Atchison.
"A. I can't recollect that we have done any business with
that road.
"Q. I will ask you whether you have during the last year
received a rate less than the tariff rate on what is called the
'Diagonal' or Stickney road ?"A. Not to my knowledge.
"Q. Who attends to the freight department of your business?
"A. Myself and Mr. Martin.
"Q. Have you or the firm of Charles Counselmai & Co.
r~ceived any rebate, drawback or commission from the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company, or the
Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company, on the
transportation of grain from points in the States of Nebraska

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and Kansas, to the city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois.
during the past year, whereby you secured the transportation
of said grain at less than the 'tariff rates established by said
railroad ?
"A. I decline to answer on the same ground."
The grand jurors thereupon filed in said court, on the 22d
of November, 1890, their report, signed by their foreman and
clerk, certifying to the court the several questions which
Counselman so refused to answer. Thereupon, the judge of
the court granted a rule on Counselman to show cause why he
should not answer the said questions, a hearing was had, and
the court made an order, on the 25th of November, 1890,
which found that the excuses and reasons advanced on behalf
of counselman, as to why he should not answer said questions,were wholly insufficient, and directed that he appear before
the grand jury without delay, and there answer the said questions, and also such further questions touching the matter
under inquiry by the grand jury, and which should be pertinent to such inquiry, as should be propounded to him by any
member of the grand jury, or the district attorney, or any of
his assistants.
Counselman was again called before the grand jury, and
the same questions, together with other kindred questions;
were submitted to him to answer; and he refused to answer
them and each of them, for the same reasons. The grand
jury, by its report, signed by its foreman and clerk, reported
to the court that Counselman still refused to answer the questions which he had previously refused to answer, and upon the
same grounds, and that there were also propounded to him by
the district attorney and the grand jury additional questions,
which, and the answers thereto, were as follows:
"Q. Do you know whether or not the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railroad Company transported for any person, company or corporatio in the city of Chicago, during the year
last past, grain from any point in the States of Nebraska,
Kansas or Iowa, to the city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois, for less than the established rates in force on such road
at the time of such transportation?

COUNSELMA

v. HITCHCOCK.

Statement of the Case.

"A. I decline to answer, on the ground that my answer
might tend to criminate me.
" Q. Do you know any person, corporation or company
who has obtained their transportation of grain from points or
places in the States 'of Iowa, Nebraska or Kansas, to the city
of Chicago, over the Chicago, iRock Island and Pacific Railroad,
during the past year, at a rate and price less than the published and legal tariff rate at the time of such shipment ?
"1A. I decline to answer for the reason that my answer
might tend to criminate me.
"Q. Do you know whether the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad Company, within the past year, has charged,
demanded or received from any person, company or corporation in the city of Chicago any less rate than the open rate, or
rate established by said railroad company, on grain or other
property transported by the said railroad company from points
in the States of Nebraska, Kansas and Iowa, to the city of
Chicago, in the State of Illinois? If you have such knowledge, give the name of such shipper of whom said rate was
charged, demanded or received, and the amount of such rate
and shipments, stating -fully all the particulars within your
knowledge.
"A. I decline to answer, for the reason that my -answer
might tend to criminate me.
"Q. Do you know whether the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad Company, during the year A.D. 1890, has
paid to any shipper, at the City of Chicago, any rebate, refund
or commission on property and grain transported by such
company from points in the -States of Kansas, Nebraska or,
Iowa, whereby such shipper obtained the transpoitation of such
grain or property from the said points in said States to the
city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois, -at a less rate than the
open or tariff rate, or the rate established by said company?
If you have such knowledge, state the amount of such rebates,
the drawbacks, or commissions paid, to whom paid, the date
of the same, and on what shipments; and state fully all the
particulars within your knowledge relating to such transaction
or transactions.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

4

A. I decline to answer, for the reason that my answer

might tend to criminate me."
Thereupon, after a hearing, the court on November 25, 1890,
adjudged Counselman to be in contempt of court, and made
an order fining him $500 and the costs of the proceeding, and
directing the marshal to take him into custody and hold him
until he should have answered said questions, and all questions
of similar import which should be propounded to him by the
grand jury, ot the district attorney, or any assistant district
attorney, in the presence of such jury, and until he should pay
such fine and costs. Under that order he was taken into
custody by the marshal and held.
On the 26th of November, 1890, he fied in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois
a petition setting forth the foregoing facts, and praying for a
writ of habeas co7pus. The petition alleged that the grand
jury had no jurisdiction or authority to make the investigation
in question, or to submit to him the several questions referred
to; that his answers to those questions would tend to incriminate him, and, by compelling him to answer them, he would be
compelled to be a witness against himself in the criminal proceeding and investigation pending before the grand jury, and.
in any criminal proceedings which might be brought as a
result of such investigation, contrary to the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States, and especially the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments thereof; that the District Court had no
jurisdiction to compel him to answer said questions; that its
order to that effect was contrary to the Constitution and laws
of the United States, and was void; that the District Court
had no jurisdiction so to adjudge him in contempt; that the
order imposing a fine upon him and committing him to the
custody of the marshal was void; and that he was held in
custody without legal right, and contrary to the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
On the same day, the Circuit Court, issued a writ of habeas
corpus, returnable forthwith, the return to which by the marshal was that Counselman was held under the order of the
District Court, made November 25, 1890. The case was heard

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Argument for App lee.

on November 28, and on December 18, the Circuit Court, held
by Judge Gresham, delivered an opinion, (44 Fed. Rep. 268,)
and made an order adjudging that the District Court was in
the exercise of its rightful authority in doing what it had done,
overruling the motion of Counselman for his discharge, dismissing his petition, remanding him to the custody of the marshal,
discharging the writ of habeas corpus, and adjudging aganst
Counselman the costs of the proceedings. He excepted to the
order and appealed to this court, and an order was made
admitting him to bail pending the appeal.
.t r. John N. Jewett and -Yr. James C. Carter for appellant.
.r.
Assistant Attorney General Parker and .Mr. G. ..
LambertsoA for appellee.
I. If the record is silent as to jurisdictional facts, the court
will presume jurisdiction to exist if the grand jury could, under
any circumstances, investigate the class of crimes under consideration. In a collateral attack on a judgment of the United
States courts, jurisdiction is presumed, although in a proceeding
by error the judgment would be overthrown. Skillern's ]xeou-"
tors v. f.fay's .Executors, 6 Cranch, 267; AcCormick v. Sullivant, 10 :Wheat. 192; I& re Cuddy, 131 U. S. 280; Galpin
v. Page, 18 Wall. 350;
empe v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch, 173;
Ex parte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328.
The appellant having alleged a total want of jurisdiction,
must prove it. The truth of the allegation cannot be left to
surmise or presumption. Appellants have offered no proof.
This Court has gone so far as to say that a judgment is valid
as against a collateral attack, although it affirmatively appears
that the court is without jurisdiction. Des Moines Nav. Co.
v. Iowa Romestead Co., 128 U. S. 552, 557.
H. A witness is not entitled to plead the privilege of silence
except "in a criminal case" against himself. It will be observed that the common law rule extends a broader privilege
to the witness than the words of the Constitution. By the
common law a witness in any case in any court was entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellee.

to refuse to answer where the answer would have a tendency
to criminate him. The common law rule was einbodied in
14 and 15 Vict. c. 99, § 3: "Nothing therein contained shall
render any person who in any criminal proceeding is charged
with the commission of any indictable offence, or any offence
punishable on summary conviction, competent or compellable,
to give evidence for or against himself or herself, or shall
render any person compellable to answer any question tending
to criminate himself or herself."
III. Congress, in submitting the clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, intended to limit and qualify the
common law rule. That part of the Fifth Amendment discussed here, was originally proposed by Mr. Madison in the.
following language, and stood in this connection: "No person
shall be subject, except in cases of impeachment, to more than
one punishment or one trial for the same offefice, nor shall be
compelled to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of
life, liberty or property without due process of law."
The debates upon this clause show that it was objected to
because it "contained a general declaration in some degree
contrary to laws passed, the member objecting alluding to
that hart where a person shall not be compelled to give evidence against himself. He thought it ought to be confined to
criminal cases, and moved an amendment to that purpose,
which amendment being adopted, the clause as amended was
unanimously agreed to." Annals of Congress, vol. 1, p. '782;
United States v. Three Tons of Coal, 6 Bissell, 387. It is there-

fore apparent that the clause in the Constitution limits and
qualifies the common law rule. It is only "in a criminal case"
that a witness can refuse t o answer.
An investigation before a grand jury is in no sense "a
criminal case." The inquiry is for the purpose of finding
whether a crime has been committed, and whether any one
shall be accused of an offence. The inquiry is secret; there is
no accuser, no parties, plaintiff or defendant.- The whole proceeding is edparte, the testimony being confined to one side,
and the evidence adduced is not governed by the rules or the
manner or method by which testimony is adduced or admitted

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOC]L
Argument for Appellee.

on the trial of cases in court.

Such an investigation is, not a

criminal case within the meaning of the Constitution. United
See also Peo(ye v.
Sates v. Reed, 2 Blatchford, 435, 464.
Kelly, 24 N. Y. 74; United States v. Brown, 1 Sawyer, 531, 535.
IV. Section 860 of the Revised Statutes takes away frbm
the witness the right to refuse to answer on the ground that
such answer might tend to criminate him. That section is
as follows: "No pleading of a party, nor any discovery or
evidence obtained from a party or witness by means of a
judicial proceeding in this or any foreign country, shall be
given in evidence, or in any manner used against 'him or 'his
property or estate, in any court of the United States, in any
criminal proceeding, or for the'enforcement of any penalty or
forfeiture: Provided, That this section shall not exempt any
party or witness from prosecution and punishment for perjury
committed in discovering or testifying as aforesaid."
This section is taken from the act of February 25, 1868, 'T5
Stat. 37, c. 13, entitled "An Act for the Protection in,-ertain
Cases of Persons making Disclosures as Parties, or tee ifyib&
as Witnesses." Before its passage voluntary admissiohs were
always admissible in evidence against an accused. The Fifth
Amendment sought only to preclude the- use of involuntary
testimony, while the act in terms excludes both voluntary and
involuntary admissions. Thus, instead of invading, it adds to
the guaranties of the Constitution,. and is a new safeguard for
individual rights and liberties.
The remarks in the senate upon it threw light upon its
purposes. Mr. Frelinghuysen, in introducing the bill, said:
"The object of the bill is to relieve parties in making disclosures
and witnesses testifying from subjecting themselves to forfeitures and penalties. The government finds it necessary
that some such bill should be passed, as where they seek a
disclosure parties plead the fact that it will subject them to
forfeitures and penalties, and so the government is debarred
from getting such evidence as it is essential for it to have.
It only applies to courts of the United States." Mr. Trumbull,
in the course of the debates, said: "This bill proposes that he
[the witness] shall not be excused from testifying on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellee.

ground that the answer might be used against him in a penal
proceeding or a criminal proceeding. Of course the court
would compel him to answer if it was a proper case." And
Mr. Garrett Davis said: "I understand the bill is based upon
the common law principle that no man shbuld be compelled to
give evidence against himself in criminal and penal cases. I
hold that this is the intention upon which this bill has been
introduced. I understand the immunity which it gives to an
individual is this, that when he is compelled to make a disclosure in giving evidence, or in written pleadings, where he
is compelled by the law and the words of the proceeding in
court to give evidence involuntarily, any disclosure he makes
shall not be used against him in any criminal or penal prosecution or any suit that is quasi penal. That is a correct principle.
It is one that has been embodied in the laws bf Kentucky, with
which I am familiar, for a great many years, and I think the
provision of this bill is a very proper one."
It is claimed that the statute only applies to voluntary admissionxs given in civil cases. There is-certainly nothing in
the language of the act to sustain this assertion. What warrant is there for limiting those words to civil actions? We
might with as much reason argue that the act was only intended to apply to criminal proceedings. If Congress intended
to limit the act to disclosures and evidence obtained in civil
causes it would have been very careful to say so, and would
not have used the words "judicial proceeding."
In several cases in the Federal courts this statute has been
construed as holding that the witness is not protected by the
Constitution from being compelled to give testimony called
for, though it might implicate him in a crime, as he is fully
protected by statute against the use of such testimony on his
trial. U'nitedl States v. Brown, 1 Sawyer, 531; United State8
v. _McCarthy, 18 Fed. Rep. 87;' United 'Stales v. Three Tons
of Coal, 6 Bissell, 379; -1, re Counselmnan, 44 Fed. Rep. 268.
In several of the state courts. similar provisions in state
constitutions and state legislation have received a similar construction.
The constitution of the State of New York is identical with

COUNSELMAN" v. HITCHCOCK.
Argument for Appellee.

the clause under consideration in the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States. The legislature of that
State enacted that "Every person offending against either of
the preceding sections of this article shall be a competent witness" against any other person so offending, and may be com-'
pelled to offer and give evidence before any magistrate or
grand jury, or in any court, in the same manner as other persons, but the testimony so given shall not be used in any prosecution or proceeding, civil or criminal, against the person so
testifying." The court of appeals held that the witness "was
not protected by the Constitution from answeriig before the
grand jury." Peoplev. Kely, 24 N. Y. 74. This ruling was
affirmed in Peqple v. Sharp, 107 N. Y. 427.
Like decisions have been made in Arkansas, State v. Quaq-es
13 Arkansas, 307; in Indiana, Wilkins v. .alone, 14 Indiana,
153, and Bidgood v. The State, 115 Indiana, 275; in North
Carolina, ,a Fontaine v. Southern University, 83 Nor. Car.
132; in California, Pa _parte Row'e, 7 California, 184; and in
Georgia, Ziydon v. Heard, 14 Georgia, 255.
Decisions in other state courts, are cited in support of the
contention that the indemnity statute is not co-extensive with
the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution because it does not
grant the witness complete immunity. These decisions arein Massachusetts, Emery's Case, 107 Mass. .172; in New Hamp
shire, State v. Yowell, 58 N. H.. 314; in 'irginia, Cullen v.
Commonwealth, 24: Grattan, 624. An examination will show
that these decisions are not in point, as they are based upon
ihe phraseology of constitutions different* from that of the
Fifth Amendment.
In Massachusetts the constitution provided that "No subject
shall be held to answer for any crimes or offences until the
same is fully and plainly, substantially and formally,.described
to him; or be compelled to accuse or furnish evidence against
himself." The exonerating statute was as follows: "But the
testimony of any witness examined before said committee
upon the subject aforesaid, or any statement made, or paper
produced by him upon such examination, shall not be used as
evidence against such witness in any civil or criminal proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellee.

ing in any court of justice: Provided, however, that no official
paper or record produced by such witness on such examination.
shall be held or taken to be included Within the- privilege of
said evidence so as to protect such witness in any civil or
criminal proceeding aforesaid."
In New Hampshire the provision in the bill of rights is
identical with that of Massachusetts. The statute of indemnity provides that "no clerk, servant or agent of any person
accused of a violation of this chapter shall be excused from
testifying against his principal for the reason that it may
thereby criminate himself; but no testimony so given by him.
shall in any prosecution be used as evidence, either directly or
indirectly, against him; nor shall he be thereafter prosecuted
for any offence so disclosed by him."
In Cullen v. Commonwealtk the decision is based on the
language of the eighth clause of the constitution of Virginia:
"Nor can he be compelled to give evidence against himself."
V. The witness does not claim his privilege on the ground
that he may furnish clews and give the names of witnesses
that may lead to his conviction on testimony other than his
own, but declines on the ground that his answer if repeated
may criminate him.' But the claim that the witness may,
uncover clews and furnish the names of witnesses that may
assist the government to convict him of a crime is not within
the privilege. Archbold Crim. Prac. & Plead., 8th Am. ed.
399; 2 Hawk. P1. Crown, Bk. 2, c. 46, § 38. In a note to
Archbold, the rule is said to be as follows: Though some have
thought otherwise, the later cases are uniform to the point
that a circumstance tending to show guilt may be proved
although it was brought to light by a declaration inadmissible
.er 8e, as having been obtained by improper influence. 1?ex v.
Wilson, Holt N. P. 597, 598, note; State v. Jioore, 1 Hay-

wood (N. 0.) 482.
VI. If the furnishing of clews or evidence by witnesses to
be proved by independent witnesses is within the privilege,
the act of February 25, 1868, Rev. Stat. § 860, is broad enough
to protect the witness and exclude such evidence.
Appellant contends that this section is not broad enough to

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOK.
Opinion of the Court.

support the requirement of giving evidence because it does not
extend complete immunity to the accused. The enforcement
of such a conclusion would nullify most investigations instituted under legislative authority. Absolute and complete indemnity would be equivalent to a pardon, and thus a legislative encroachment .upon executive prerogative, and therefore
void. Sen. Rep. No. 253, April 11, 1876, 44 Cong. 1st Sess.
If it shall be established that section 860 is ineffectual from
lack of breadth and that a grant of absolute indemnity is void
for the reason suggested, not only the law of 1868, and the
similar provision in the act to regulate commerce between the
States, but the law applicable to testimony given before committees of Congress and many valuable state enactments will
be overthrown and injurious consequences will follow.
VII. If the Constitution had provided that any testimony of
a witness or party or any information furnished by him should
not be used or resorted to by the government to convict him,
then its provisions would be as broad as the contention of
counsel for appellant.
That the words. "shall not be coripelled to be a witness
against himself" have no such extended significance is patent
when we consider the purpose 6f this amendment, the causes
which led to its adoption, and the mischief it sought to remedy.

MR. JusTE BLATO.HFORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In the opinion of the Circuit Court, it was held that, under
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that
"no person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to
be a witness against himself," a person cannot be compelled
to disclose facts before a court or grand jury which might
subject him to a criminal prosecution, or his property to forfeiture; that, under the Interstate Commerce Law, it is made
a criminal offence, punishable by fine and imprisonment, for
any officer or agent of a railroad company to grant any shippers of merchandise from one State to another, and for any
such shipper to contract for or receive, a rate less than the
tariff or open rate; that shippers, as well as the officers, agents

JOTOBER TERM, 189i.
Opinion of the Court.

and employvs of corporations engaged in the carrying business
between States, are made subject to the penalties of the statute; but that, as the protection of § 860 of the Revised Statutes was co-extensive with that of the Constitution, Counselman
was entitled to no privilege under the Constitution; that if
thereafter he were to be prosecuted for the offence, § 860
would not permit his admissions to be proved against him;
that his refusal to testify was not a refusal to testify in a proceeding to obtain evidence upon which he might be indicted,
but in a proceeding to obtain evidence upon which others
might be indicted; and that, although in his testimony he
might disclose facts and circumstances which would open up
sources of information to the government, whereby it might
obtain evidence not otherwise obtainable to secure his conviction, yet, if his testimony could not be repeated in any subsequent proceeding against him or his property, he was protected
as fully by § 860 as the Constitution intended he should be.
Section 860 is a reenactment of § 1 of the act of February
25, 1868, c. 13, 15 Stat. 37, which provided as follows: "That
no answer or other pleading of any party, and no discovery or
evidence obtained by means of any judicial proceeding from
any party or witness' in this or any foreign country, shall be
given in evidence, or in any manner used against such party
-orwitness, or his property or estate, in any court of the United
States, or in any proceeding by or before any officer of the
United States, in respect to any crime, or for the enforcement
of any penalty or forfeiture by reason of any act or omission
of such party or witness: Provided,That nothing in this act
shall be construed to exempt any party or witness from prosecution and punishment for perjury committed by him in discovering or testifying as aforesaid.
Section 860 provides as follows: "No pleading of a party,
nor any discovery or evidence obtained from a party or witness by means of a judicial proceeding in this or any foreign
country, shall be given in evidence, or in auy manner used
against him or his property or estate, in any court of the
United States, in any criminal proceeding, or for the enforcemeiLt of any penalty or forfeiture: Provided,That this section

COUNJSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

shall not exempt any party or witness from prosecution and
punishment for perjury committed in discovering or testifying
as aforesaid."
By § 10 of the Interstate Commerce Act,.of February 4,
1887, c. 104, 24: Stat. 382, as amended by § 2 of the act of
March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 857, unlawful discrimination in
rates, fares or charges, for the transportation of passengers or
property, is made subject not only to a fine of not to exceed
$5000 for each offence, but to imprisonment in the penitentiary for not over two years, or to both, in the discretion of
the court. By § 12 of the act of 1887, 24 Stat. 383, as amended
by § 3 of the act of 1889, 25 Stat. 858, the Interstate Commerce Commission is authorized and required to execute and
enforce the provisions of the act, and on the request of the
commission, it is made the duty of any district attorney of the
United States to whom the commission may apply, to institute
in the proper court, and to prosecute under the direction of
the Attorney General of the United States, all necessary proceedings for the enforcement of the provisions of the act and
for the punishment of all violations thereof.
It is contended by the appellant that the grand jury of the
District Court was not in the exercise of its proper and legitimate authority in prosecuting the investigations specifically
set out in its two reports to the District Court; that those
reports could not be made the foundation of any judicial
action by the court; that the Interstate Commerce Commission
was specially invested by the statute with the .authority to
investigate violations of the act and charged with that duty;
and that no duty in that respect was imposed upon the grand
jury, fntil specific charges had been made.
But in the view we take of this case, we do not find it necessary to intimate any opinion as to that question in any of
its branches, or as to the question whether the reports of the
grand jury, in stating that they were engaged in investigating
and inquiring into "certains alleged violations" of the acts of
1887 and 1889 by the officers and agents of three specified
railway and railroad companies, and the officers and agents of
various other railroad companies having lines of road in the
VOL. cxnI-36

OCTOBER- TERIM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

district, (there being no other showing in the record as to what
they were investigating and inquiring into,) are or are not consistent with the fact that they were investigating specific
charges against particular persons; because we are of opinion
that upon another ground the judgment of the court below
must be reversed.
It is broadly contended on the part of the appellee that a
witness is not entitled to plead the privilege of silence, except
in a criminal case against himself; but such is not the language of the Constitution. Its provision is that no person
shall be.compelled in aoy criminal case to be a witness against
himself. This provision must have a broad construction in
favor of the right which it was intended to secure. The matter under investigation by the grand jury in this case was a
criminal matter, to inquire 'whether there had been a criminal
violation of the Interstate Commerce Act. If Counselman
had been guilty of the matters inquired of in the questions
which he refused to answer, he himself was liable to criminal
prosecution under the act. The case before the grand jury
was, therefore, a criminal case. The reason given by Counsel:
man for his refusal to answer the questions was that his
answers might tend to criminate him, and showed that his
'apprehension was that, if he answered the questions truly and
fully (as he was bound to do' if he should answer them at all),
the answers might show that he had committed .a crime
against the Interstate Commerce Act, for which he might
be prosecuted. His answers, therefore, would be testimony
against himself, and he would be compelled to give them in a
criminal case.
It is impossible that the meaning of the constitutional provision can only be, that a person shall not be compelled to be
a witness against himself in a criminal prosecution against himself. It would doubtless cover such cases; but It is not limited
to them. The object was to insure that a person should not be
compelled, when acting as a witness in any investigation, to
give testimony which might tend to show that he himself had
committed a crime. The privilege is limited to criminal matters, but it is as broad as the mischief against which it geeks
to guard.

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

It is argued for the appellee that the investigation before
the grand jury was not a criminal case, but was solely for- the
purpose of finding out whether a crime had been committed,

or whether any one should be accused of an offence, there
being no accuser and no parties plaintiff or defendant, and
that a case could arise only when an indictment should be
returned. In support of this view- reference is made to article 6 of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, which provides that in all criminal prosecutions the
accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by
an impartial jury, to be confronted with the witnesses against
him, to have compulsory process for witnesses, a d the assistance of *counsel for his defence.
But this provision distinctly means a criminal pr ,secution
against a person who is accused and who is to be ti ed by a
petit jury. A criminal prosecution under article 6 of the
amendments, is much narrower than a "criminal case," under
article 5 of the amendments. It is entirely consistent with
the language of article 5, that the privilege of not being a
witness against himself is to be exercised in a proceeding before a grand jury.
We cannot yield our assent to the view taken on this subject by the Court of Appeals of New York, in People v. -elly,
24 N. Y. '74, 84. The provision of the constitution of New
York of 1846, (Art. .1, sec. 6,) was that no person shall '"be
compelled, in any criminal case, to be a witness against himself." The court, speaking by Judge Denio, said: "The term
'criminal case,' used in the clause, must be allowed some meaning, and nofie can be conceived other than a prosecution for a
criminal offence. But it must be a prosecution against him;
for what is forbidden is that he should be compelled to be a
witness against himself." This ruling, which has been followed
in some other cases, seems to us, as applied to the provision in
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
to tdke away entirely its true meaning and its value.
It is an ancient principle of the law of evidence, that a witness shall not be compelled, in any proceeding, to make disclosures or to give testimony which will tend to criminate him or

OCTOBER TER°M, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

subject him to, fines, penalties or forfeitures. Rew v. laney,
5 Carr. & P. 213 ; Cates v. Hfardacre, 3 Taunt. 424; .lWaloney
v. Bartley, 3 Camp. 210 ; 1 Starkie on Evidence, '[1, 191 ; Case
o Sir Jokn _Freind,13 Howell's State Trials, 16; Case of Earl
of Yacclesfleld, 16 Howell's State Trials, 767; 1 Greenl. Ev.
.§ 451; 1 Barr's Trial, 244; Wharton7s Crim. Ev. 9th ed. § 463;
Southard v; Rexford, 6 Cowen, 254; People v. _hather,4 Wend.
229; Zister v. Boc7er, 6 Blackford, 439.
The relations of Counselman to the subject of inquiry before the grand jury, as shown by the questions put to him, in
connection with the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act,
entitled him to invoke the protection of the Constitution. The
State v. Nowell, 58 N. H. 314; Emery's Case, 107 Mass., 172.
It remains to consider whether § 860 of the Revised Statutes
-removes the protection of ihe constitutional privilege of Counselman. 'That section must be construed as declaring that no
evidence *obtainedfrom a witness by means of a judicial proceeding thall be given in evidence, or in any manner used
against him or his property or estate, in ainy court of the
United States, in any criminal proceeding, or for the enforcement of any penalty or forfeiture, It follows, that any evidence which might have been obtained from Counselman by
means of his examination before the grand jury could not be
given in evidence or used against him or his property in any
court of the United States, in any criminal proceeding, or forthe enforcement of any penalty or forfeiture. This, of course,
protected him against the use of his testimony against him or
his property in any prosecution against him or his property, in
any criminal proceeding, in a court of the United States. But
it had only that effect. It could not, and would not, prevent.
the use of his testimony to search out other testimony to be
used in evidence against him or hi property, in a criminal
proceeding in su~h court. It could not prevent the obtaining
and the use of witnesses and evidence which should be attributable directly to the testimony he might give under compulsion,
and on which he might be convicted, when otherwise, and if he
had refused to answer, he could not possibly have been bonvicted.
I The constitutional provision distinctly declares that a person

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

shall not "be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
against himself;" and the protection of § 860 is not coextensive with the constitutional provision. Legislation cannot
detract from the privilege afforded by the Constitution. It
would be quite another thing if the Constitution had provided
that no person shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a
witness against himself, unless it should be provided by statute
that criminating evidence extracted from a witness against his
will should not be used against him. But a mere act of Con.gress cannot amend the Constitution, even if it should engraft
thereon such a proviso.
In some States, where there is a like constitutional provision,
it has been attempted by legislation to remove the constitutional
provision, by declaring that there shall be no future criminal
prosecution against the witness, thus making it impossible for
the criminal charge against him ever to conie under the cognizance of any court, or at least enabling him to plead the
statute in absolute bar of such prosecution.
A review of the subject in adjudged cases will be useful.
In Commonwealth v. Gibbs, 3 Yeates, 429, and 4 Ball. 253,
in 1802, the declaration of rights in the constitution of Pennsylvania of 1776, declared, that no man can "be compelled to
give evidence against himself," and the same language was
found in the constitution of 1790. Under this, the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania held that the maxim, that no one is
bound to accuse himself extended to cases where the answer
might involve him in shame or reproach; and it held to the
same effect in -Lessee of Galbreath v. .Elio/elberger,3 Yeates,
515, in 1803.
In June, 1807, Chief Justice Marshall, in the Circuit Court
of the TUnited States for the District of Virginia, in Bur.'s
Trial, 1 Burr's Trial, 244, on the question whether the witness
was privileged not tb accuse himself, said: "If the question
be of such a description that an answer to it may or may not
criminate the witness, according to the purport of that answer,
it must rest with himself, who alone can tell what it would
be, to answer the question or not. If, in such a case, he say
upon his oath, that his answer would criminate himself, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

court can demand no other testimony of the fact.
According to their statement," (the counsel for the United
States,) "a witness can never refuse to answer any question,
unless that answer, unconnected with other testimony, would
be sufficient to convict him of crime., This would be rendering
the rule almost perfectly worthless. Many links frequently
compose that chain of testimony which is necessary to convict
any individual of a crime. It appears to the court to be the
true sense of the rule, that no witness is compellable to furnish
any one of them against himself. It is certainly not only a,
possible, but a probable case, that a witness, by disclosing a
single fact, may complete the testimony against himself ; and
to every effectual purpose accuse himself as entirely as he
would by stating every circumstance which would be required
for his conviction. That fact of itself might be unavailing,
but all other facts without it would be insufficient. While
that remains concealed within his own bosom, he is safe; but
draw it from thence, and he is exposed to a prosecution.
The rule which declares that no man is compellable to accuse
himself, would most obviously be infringed, by compelling a
witness to disclose a fact of this description. What testimony
may be possessed, or is attainable, against any individual, the
court can never know. It would seem, then, that the court
ought never to compel a 'witness to give an answer which
discloses a fact that would form b necessary and essential part
of a crime which is punishable by the laws."
In 1853, in State v. Quarles, 13 Arkansas, 307, the declaration of rights in the constitution of Arkansas of 1836, (Art.
2, see. 11,) had declared that in prosecutions by indictment or
presentment, the accused "shall not be compelled to give
evidence against himself." Quarles was indicted inder a
gaming law, for betting money on a game of chance. A nolle
.prosequihaving'been entered as to one Neal, against whom a
like prosecution was pending, Neal was sworn as a witness for
the State, and informed of the nolle _prosequi, and that no
indictment for a similar offence would be preferred against
him, and was asked whether he had seen Quarles bet money
at cards within a specified time. Neal refused to answer the

COUNSEL A_

v. HITCHOOOK.

Opinion of the Court.

question, alleging that he feared that he would criminate himself thereby. The trial court refused to compel him to anster,
and, the jury having found for the defendant, the State
appealed. There was a statute of Arkansas which read as
follows: "In all cases where two or more persons are jointly
or otherwise concerned in the commission of any crime or
misdemeanor, either of such persons may be sworn as a witness
in relation to such crime or misdemeanor; but the testimony
given by such witness shall in no instance be used against him
in any criminal prosecution for the same offence."
The Supreme Court of Arkansas held, that, although witnesses were not expressed in the terms of the provisions of the
bill of rights, yet they were substantially embraced to the full
extent of a complete guarantee against self-accusation; and
that the privilege of the bill of rights was that a witness should
not be compelled to produce the evidence to prove himself
guilty of the crime about which he might be called to testify.
But it was further held that, by the statute, the legislature
had so changed the rule, by directing that the testimony
required to be given should n.ever be used against a witness
for the purpose of procuring his conviction for the crime or
misdemeanor to which it related, that it was no longer necessary for him to claim his privilege in regard to such testimony,
in order to prevent its afterwards being used against him; andthat the only question was, whether the statutory regulation
afforded sufficient protection to the witness, responsive to the
new rule and to the constitutional guarantee against compul-'
sory self-accusation. It was held, that the statute sufficiently
guarded witnesses from self-accusation, within the .meaning
of the constitution, to make it lawful for the courts to compel
them to testify as to all matters embraced by the provisions
of the statute on that subject.
In Higd n v. Heard, 14 Georgia, 255, in 1853, it was said
that the constitution Qf Georgia declared that "no person
shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against
himself." In that case the plaintiff had filed a bill in equity
praying a discovery as to property which he alleged the
defendants had won from him in a game of cards. The bill

.OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was demurred to on the ground that the law of the State compelling a discovery of gaming transactions was unconstitutional,
because such transactions were criminal, and the statute did
not grant an absolute and unconditional release from punishment, and because the defendants could not make the discovery
sought without criminating themselves and incurring penalties.
The demurrer was overruled by the Supreme Court of Georgia,
on the ground that, although all persons were protected by
the constitution from furnishing evidence against themselves
which might tend to subject them to a criminal prosecution,
they received their protection by virtue of an act of Georgia
of 1764, because, under that act, their answers could not be
read in evidence against them in any criminal case whatever,
being excluded by the constitution.
In 'w_parte Rowe, 7 California, 184, in 1857, the constitution of California of 1849 provided, (Art. 1, see. 8,) that no
person shall "be compelled, in any criminal case, to be a witness against himself," Rowe had been committed for refusing to answer, under an order of the court, certain questions
propounded to him by the grand jury in an examination concerning the disposition of certain moneys taken from the state
treasury, on the ground that his ansvoer would disgrace him
and would tend to subject him to a prosecution'for felony.
The Supreme Court of California, on ]abeae eoyus, considered
the construction and constitutionality of the 5th section of an
act passed April 16, 1855, which provided that "the testimony
givdn by such witness shall in no instance be used against himself in any criminal prosecution." The court held that the
provision of the constitution was intended to protect the witness from being compelled' to testify against himself in regard
to a criminal offence; that he could not be a witness against
himself unless his testimony could be used against him in his
own case; ana that the statute gave the witness that protection which was contemplated by the constitution, and therefore he was bound to answer.
In 1860, in Wilkins v. Malone, 14 Indiana, 153, the constitution of Indiana of 1851, in its bill of rights, (Art. 1, sec. 14,) had
declared that "no person in any criminal prosecution shall be

COUINSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

compelled to testify against himself."

In a suit brought by

Malone to recover on a promissory note, the defence pleaded
usury and offered to examine Malone as a witness to prove the
usury. The plaintiff objected, on the ground that such examination would criminate himself, and the objection was sustained. On appeal to the Supreme Court of Indiana by the
defendants, it was held that the constitutional provision protected a person from a compulsory disclosure, in a civil suit, of
facts tending to criminate him, whenever his answer could be
given in eyidence against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution. The court referred to State v. Quarles, supra, and
Higdon v. Heard, supr'a, and to the statute of Indiana, (1 :Rev.
Stats. p. 345, see. 8,) which provided that a person charged
with taking illegal interest might be required to answer, but
that his answer should not be used against him in any criminal prosecution for usury. The court held that by this statute
the constitutional privilege of the party was fully secured to
him, although he might disclose circumstances which might
lead to a criminal prosecution.
In 1861, in the Court of Appeals of New York, People v.
Kelly, 24 N. Y. 74, the constitution of New York of 1846 declared, that no person shall "be compelled, in any criminal
case, to be a witness against himself." In that case, one
Hackley, as a witness before the grand jury on a complaint
against certain aldermen for feloniously receiving a gift of
money under an agreement that their votes should be influenced thereby in a matter then pending before them in their
official capacity, in answer to a question put to him as to what
he had done with certain money which- he had received, said
that any answer which he could give to the question would
disgrace him, and would have a tendency to accuse him of a
crime, and he demurred to the question. Having been ordered
by the Court of General Sessions of the Peace to answer it, he
still refused, and was adjudged guilty of contempt and put in
prison. On a writ of habeas corpus, he was remanded into
custody by the Supreme Court, and he appealed to the Court
of Appeals.
By chapter 539 of the Laws of New York of 1853, it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

enacted, by § 2, that § 14 should be added to article 2, title 4,
chapter 1, part 4, of the Revised Statutes. The act provided
that the giving of money to any member of the common council of a city, with intent to influence his action upon any matter which might be brought before him in his official capacity,
should be an offence punishable by fine or imprisonment in a
state prison or both; and § 14 provided that 6very person
offending against the statute should "be a competent witness
against any other person so offending," and might be compelled
to give evidence before any magistrate or grand jury, or in
any court, in the same manner as other persons, "but the testimony so given shall not be used in any prosecution or proceeding, civil or criminal, against the person so testifying."
A similar provision was contained in chapter 446 of the Laws
of 1857, in § 52.
The Court of Appeals considered the question whether those
provisions were consistent with the true sense of the declaration of the constitution, and said, speaking by Judge Denio
(p. 82) : "The mandate thAt an accused person should not be
compelled to give evidence against himself, would fail to
secure the whole object intended, if a prosecutor might call an
accomplice or confederate in a criminal offence, and aftervards
use the evidence he might give to procure a conviction; on the
trial of an indictment against him. If obliged to testify, on
the trial of the cobffender, to matters which would show his
own complicity, it might be said, upon a very liberal construction of the language, that he was compelled to give evidence
against himself -that is, to give evidence which might be
used in a criminal case against himself.

.

.

.

It is, of

course, competent for the legislature to change any doctrine
of the common law, but I think they could not compel a witness to testify, on the trial of another person, to facts which
would prove himself guilty of a crime, without indemnifying
him against the consequences, because I think, as has been
mentioned, that by a legal construction the constitution would
be found to forbid it." But the court went on to say: "If a
man cannot give evidence upon the trial of another person
without disclosing circumstances which will make his- own

COUNSELAIAN v. HITCHCOCK..
Opinion of the Court.

guilt apparent, or at least capable of proof, though his account
of the transactions should never be used as evidence, it is the
misfortune of his condition, and not any want of humanity in
the law. If a witness objects to a question on. the ground that
an answer would criminate himself, he must allege, in substance, that his answer, if repeated as his admission, on his
own trial, would tend to prove him guilty of a criminal offence.
If the case is so situated- that a repetition of it on a prosecution igainst him is impossible, as where it is forbidden by a
positive statute, I have seen no authority which holds or intimates that the witness is privileged. It is not Nithin any
reasonable constructioft of the language of the constitutional
provision. The term ' criminal case,' used in the clause, must
be allQed some meaning, and none can be conceived other
than a prosecution for a criminal offence. But it must be a
prosecution against him,; for what is forbidden is that he
should be compelled to be a witness against himself. Now if
he be prosecuted criminally, touching the matter about which
he has testified upon the trial of another person, the statute
makes it impossible that his testimony given on that occasion
should be used by the prosecution on the trial. It cannot,
therefore, be said that in such criminal case he has been made
a witness against himself, by force of. any compulsion. used
towards him to procure, in the other case, testimony which
cannot possibly be used in the criminal case against himself."
The court held therefore, that Hackley was not protected by the
constitution of New York from answering before the grand jury.
In 1871, in Emery's Case, 107 Mass. 172, article 12 of the
declaration of rights in the constitution of Massachusetts of
1780 had declared, that no subject shall be "compelled to
accuse or furnish evidence against himself." A statute of
Massachusetts, of March 8, 1871, chapter 91, entitled 'An act
for the better discovery of testimony and the protection of
witnesses before the joint special committee of the state police,"
provided as follows: "No person who -is called as a witness
before the joint special committee on the state police, shall be
excused from answering any question or from the production
of any paper relating to any corrupf practice or improper

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

conduct of the state police, forming the subject of inquiry by
such committee, on the ground that the answer to such question
or the production of such paper may criminate or tend to
criminate himself, or to disgrace him, or otherwise render him
infamous, or on the ground of privilege; but the testimony of
any witness examined before said committee upon the subject
aforesaid or any statement made or paper produced by him
upon such an examination, shall not be used as evidence against
such witness in any civil or criminal proce'ding in any court
off justice; _provided, however, that no official paper or record,
produced by such witness on such examination, shall be held
Q1rtaken to be included within the privilege of said evidence
so to protect such witness in any civil or criminal proceeding
as aforesaid, and that nothing in this act shall be construed
to exempt any witness from prosecution and punishment for
perjury committed by him in testifying as aforesaid."
Emery was summoned as a witness before the joint special
committee of the senate and house of representatives of the
general court "to inquire if the state police is guilty of bribery
and corruption." Interrogatories were propounded to him by
the committee which he declined to answer. On, a report of
the facts to the senate, it ordered his arrest for contempt. He
was brought before the senate and asked the following questioll:
"Are you ready and willing to answer before the joint special
committee, appointed by this senate and the house of representatives of Massachusetts, to inquire if the state police is
guilty of bribery and corruption, the following questions,
namely: First. Whether, since the appointment of the state
constabulary force, you have ever been prosecuted for the sale
or keeping for sale of intoxicating liquors. Second. Have you
ever paid any money to any state constable, and do you know
of any corrupt practice or improper conduct of the state police?
It so, state fully what sums, and to whom you have thus paid
money, and also what you know of such corrupt practice
and improper conduct." He answered in writing as follows:
"Intending no disrespect to the honorable senate, I answer,
under advice of counsel, that I am ready and willing to answer
the first question; but I decline to answer the second question,

COUNSELMA N v. HITCHCO OK
-Opinion of the Court.

upon the grounds, Frst,that the answer thereto will accuse
me of an indictable offence; Second, that the answer thereto
will furnish evidence against me by which I can be convicted
of such an offence." The senate thereupon committed him to
the custody of the sergeant-at-arms, to be confined in jail for
twenty-five days, or until the further order of the senate, unless
he should sooner answer the questions. He was imprisoned
accordingly, and the case was brought before Judge Wells of
the Supreme Judicial Court on a writ of - abeas coTus, and
was fully argued. It was held under advisement and for
conference with the other judges; and in the opinion subsequently delivered by Judge Wells it is stated, that that opinion
had the approval and unanimous concurrence of all the members
of the court. It is said in the opinion, in regard to the second
question put to the witness: "It is apparent that an affirmative
answer, to the question put to him, might tend to show that
he had been guilty of an offence, either against the laws
relating to the keeping and sale of intoxicating liquors, or
under the statute for. punishing one who shall corriptly attempt
to influence an executive officer by the gift or offer of a bribe.
Gen. Sts. c. 163, § 7."
In regard to the clause above quoted from the bill of rights,
the opinion says: "By the narrowest construction, this prohibition extends to all investigations of an inquisitorial nature,
instituted for the purpose of discovering crime, or the perpetrators of crime, by putting suspected parties upon their
examination in respect thereto, in any manner, although not
in the course of any pending prosecution. But it is hot even
thus limited. The principle applies equally to any compulsory
disclosure of his guilt by the offender himself, 'whether sought
directly as the object of the inquiry, or indirectly and incidentally for the purpose of establishing facts involved in an
issue between other parties. If the disclosure thus made
would.be capable of being used against himself as a confession
of crime, or an admission of facts tending to prove the commission of an offence by himself, in any prosecution then
pending, or that might be brought against him therefor, such
disclosure would be an accusation of himself, within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

meaning of the constitutional provision. In the absence of
regulation by statute, the protection against such self-accusation is secured by according to the guilty person, when called
upon to answer as witness or otherwise, the privilege of then
avowing the liability and claiming the exemption; instead of
compelling him to answer and then excluding his admissions
so obtained, when afterwards offered in evidence against him.
This branch of the constitutional exemption corresponds with
the common law maxim, nemo .tenetur 8eipsum accusare,the
interpretation and application of which has always been in
accordance with what has been just stated. Broom Max. 5th
ed. 968; Wingate Max. 486; Rose. Crim. Ev. 2d Am. ed. 159;
Stark.Ev. 8th Am. ed. 41, 204, and notes; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 451,
and notes." The opinion then cites the case of Peoplev. Kelly
(supra)as holding that the clause in the constitution of New
York of 1846 protected a witness from being compelled to
answer to matters which might tend to criminate himself,
when called to testify against another party; and also, People
v. -fYather, 4 Wend. 229, as declaring that the exemption in
the constitution of New York extended to the disclosure of
any fact which might constitute an essential link in a chain
of evidence by which guilt might be established, although that
fact alone would not indicate any crime. The opinion then
proceeds: "The third branch of the provision in the constitution of Massachusetts, 'or furnish evidence against himself,'
must be equally extensive in its application; and, in its interpretation, may be presumed to be intended to add something
to the significance of that which precedes. Aside from this
consideration, and upon the language of the'proposition standing by itself, it is a reasonable construction to hold that it
pr6tects a person from being compelled to disclose the circumstances of his offence, the sources from which, or the means by
which, evidence of its commission, or of his connection with
it, may be obtained, or made effectual for his conviction, without using his answers as direct admissions against him. For
all practical purposes, such disclosures would have the effect
to furnish evidence against the party making them. They
might furnish the only means of discovering the names of

COUNiSELMItA

v. HITCiCOCK.

Opinion of the Court.

those who could give evidence concerning the transaction, the
instrument by whigh a crime was perpetrated, or even the
corpus delicti itself. Both the reason upon which the'rule is
founded, and the terms in which it is expressed, forbid that it
should be limited to confessions of guilt, or statements which
may be proved in subsequent prosecutions, as admissions of
facts sought to be established therein." The court then proceeds to hold that those constitutional provisions applied to
investigations before a legislative body.
Passing then to consider the effect of the statute of 1871,
the opinion says: "It follows from the considerations already
named, that, so far as this statute requires a Witness, who may
be called, to answer questions and produce papers which may
tend to criminate himself, and attempts to take from him the
constitutional privilege in respect thereto, it must be entirely
ineffectual for that purpose, unless it also relieves him from
all liabilities, for protection against which the privilege is
secured to him by the constitution. The statute does undertake to secure him against certain of those liabilities, to wit,
the use of any disclosures he may make, as admissions or direct
evidence against him, in any civil or criminal proceeding."
The opinion then refers to the case of People v. Eeily, supra,
and says that that decision was made upon the ground that
the terms of the provision of the constitution of New York
protected the witness only from being compelled "to be a
witness against himself," and did not protect him from the
indirect and incidental consequences of a disclosure which he
might be called upon to make.
The opinion then says: "The terms of the provision in the
constitution of Massachusetts require a much broader interpretation, as has already been indicated; and no one can be
required to forego an appeal to its protection, unless first
secured from future liability, and exposure to be prejudiced,
in any criminal proceeding against him, as fully and extensively as he would be secured by availing himself of the privilege accorded by the constitution. Under the interpretation
already given, this cannot be accomplished so long as he
remains liable to prosecution criminally for any matters or

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

causes in respect of which he shall be examined, or to which
his testimony shall relate. It is not done, in direct terms, by
the statute in question; it is not contended that the statute is
capable of an interpretation which will give it that effect; and
it is clear that it cannot and was not intended to so operate.
Failing, then, to furnish to the persons to be examined an
exemption equivalent to that contained in the constitution,
or to remove the whole liability against which its provisions
were intended to protect them, it fails to deprive them of the
right to appeal to the privilege therein. The result is, that,
in appealing to his privilege, as an exemption. from the obligation to answer the inquiries put to him, the petitioner was in
the exercise of his constitutional right; and his refusal to
answer upon that ground was not, and could not be considered
as, disorderly conduct, or a contempt of. the authority of the
body before which he was called to answer. There being no
legal ground to authorize the commitment upon which he is
held, he must be discharged therefrom."
In Cullen v. Commonwealth, 24 Gratt. 624, in 1873, Cullen,
when asked before a grand jury to state what he knew of a
certain duel, declined to answer, because the answer would
tend to criminate him. The Hustings Court ordered, him to
answer, and, on his still refusing to do so, fined him and committed him to jail. The case was brought before the Court
of Appeals of Virginia. The bill of rights of the constitution
of Virginia of 1870, in § 10 of article 1, provided that no man
can "be compelled to give evidence against himself." That
provision had existed in the, bill of rights of Virginia as far
back as June 12, 1776, and of it the Court of Appeals said
that it was the purpose of its framers "to declare, as part of
the organic law, that no man should. anywhere, before any
tribunal, in any proceeding, be compelled to give evidence
tending to criminate himself, either in that or any other proceeding;" and that the provision could not be .confined "only
to cases in which a man is called on to give evidence himself
in a.prosecution pending against him."
The opinion then cited People v. Eely, and Emery'8 Case
hereinbefore referred to, as sustaining its view, and proceeded

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

to consider the effect of an act of Virginia, passed October
31, 187 0, in regard to duelling, which provided as follows:
"Every person who may have been the bearer of such challenge or acceptance, or otherwise engaged or concerned in any
duel, may be required, in any prosecution against any person
but himself, for having fought, or aided or abetted in such
duel, to testify as a witness in such prosecution; but any statement made by such person, as such witness, shall not be used
against him in any prosecution against himself." The court
held that the effect of the statute Was to invade the constitutional right of the citizen, and to deprive the witness of his
constitutional right to refuse to give evidence tending to criminate himself, without indemnity, and that the act was, therefore, to that extent, unconstitutional and void. It held further
that, before the constitutional priyilege could be taken away
by the legislatu~re, there must be absolute indemnity provided;
that nothing short of complete amnesty to the witness, an
absolute wiping out of the offence as to him, so that he could
no longer be prosecuted for it, would furnish that indemnity;
that the statute in question did not furnish it, but only provided that the statement made by the witness should not be
used against him in a prosecution against himself; that, without
using one word of that statement, the attorney for the commonwealth might in many cases, and in a case like that in hand,
inevitably would, be led by the testimony of the witness to
means and sources of information which might result in criminating the*witness himself; and that this would be to deprive
the witness of his privilege, without indemnity. The judgment of the Hustings Court was reversed.
In State v. Yowell, 58 N. H. 314, in 1878- article 15 of the
bill of rights in the constitution of New Hampshire of 1792,
declared, that no subject shall "be compelled to accuse or furnish evidence against himself." 'Nowell refused to testify
before a grand jury as to whether, as a clerk for one Goodwin,
he had sold spirituous liquors, and whether Goodwin sold them
or kept them for sale. He declined to answer on the ground
that his evidence might tend to criminate himself. A statute
of the State (Gen. Stat. c. 99, § 20) provided as follows: "No
VOL. cx=u-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

clerk, servant or agent of any person accused of a violation of
this chapter, shall be excused from testifying against his principal, for the reason that he may thereby criminate himself;
but no testimony so given by him shall, in any prosecution, be
used as evidence, either directly or indirectly, against him, nor
shall he be thereafter prosecuted for any offence so disclosed
by him." A motion having been made, before the Supreme
Court of :New Hampshire, for an attachment against him for
contempt for refusing to testify, that court, after quoting the
provision in the bill of rights, said: "The common law maxim
(thus affirmed by the bill of rights) that no one shall be compelled to testify to his own criminality, has been understood
to mean, not only that the subject shall not be compelled to
disclose his guilt upon a trial of a criminal proceeding against
himself, but also that he shall not be required to disclose, on
the trial of issues between others, facts that can be used
against him as admissions tending to prove his guilt of any
crime or offence of which he may then or afterwards be
charged, or the sources from which, or the means by which,
evidence of its commission or of his connection with it may be
obtained. .Emery's Case, 107 Mass. 172, 181."
In regard to the statute, the court said that the legislature,
having undertaken to obtain the testimony of the witness
without depriving him of his constitutional privilege of protection, must relieve him from all liabilities on account of the
matters which he is compelled to disclose; that he was to be
secured against all liability to future prosecution as effectually
as if he were wholly innocent; that this would not be accomplished if he were left liable to prosecution criminally for any
matter in respect to which he might be required to testify;
that the statute of New Hampshire went further than the
statute of Massachusetts considered in Emeiy's Case, because
it provided that the witness should not be thereafter prosecuted for any offence so d isclosed by him; that the witness
had, under the statute, all the protection which the common law
right, adopted by the bill of rights in its common law sense,
gave him; that, if he should be prosecuted, a plea that-he had
disclosed the same offence on a lawful accusatioft against his

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

principal would be a perfect answer in bar or abatement of
the prosecution against himself; and that, unless he should
testify, the motion for the attachment must be granted.
In 1880, in La Fountainev.Southern Underwriters,83 N. Car.
132, the constitution of North Carolina of 1876 had provided,
in the declaration of rights, (Article 1, sec. 11,) that, "in all
criminal prosecutions, every nan has the right .
.
to
.

.

.

not be compelled to give evidence against himself."

One Blacknall, as a witness in a hearing before a referee in a
civil suit, had refused tp answer a question as to his possession
of certain books, on the ground that indictments were pending
against him, connected with the management of the affairs of
the association owning the books, and that his answer to the
question might tend to criminate him. The case was heard
before an inferior state court, which ruled that he must answer
the question. On appeal to the Supreme Court of North
Carolinh, it held that the fair interpretation of the constitutional provision was to secure a person, who was, or might
be, accused of crime, from making any compulsory revelations
which might be used in evidence against him on his trial for
the offence; that, as the witness was protected from the consequences of the discovery, and the facts elicited could be
given in evidence in no criminal prosecution to which they
were pertinent, the plaintiff in the case was entitled to all the
information which the witness possessed, whether it did or did
not implicate the witness in a fraudulent transaction; that the
inquiry could not be evaded upon any ground of the self-criminating answer which might follow, although the answers of
the witness could not be used against him in any criminal proceeding whatever; and that his constitutional right not to "be
compelled to give evidence against himself" would be maintained intact and full.
In Ternple v. Commonwealth, 75 Virginia, 892, in 1881, the
same § 10 of article 1 of the bill of rights of the constitution
of Virginia of 1870, that was considered in Cullen v. Commonwealth, supra, was in -force. An indictment had been found
by a grand jury, on the evidence of Temple, against one Berry,
for setting up a lottery. On the trial of Berry before the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

petit jury, Temple refused to testify, on the ground that by so
doing he would criminate himself; and for such refusal he
was fined and imprisoned for contempt by the Hustings
Court. The case was taken to the Court of Appeals by writ
of error. That court cited with approval Cullen's Case, supra,
and held that it was applicable. It appeared that ia the Hustings Court, the attorney for the Commonwealth was asked
whether any prosecution was pending against Temple in that
court, or whether it was the intention of such attorney to
institute a proceeding against Temple for being concerned in
a lottery, to both of which questions he replied in the negative.
The Court of Appeals held that Temple had a right to stand
upon his constitutional privilege, and not to trust to the chances
of a further prosecution; that the court could offer him no
indemnity that he would not be further prosecuted, nor could
the attorney for the Commonwealth ; that Temple had a right
to remain silent whenever any question was asked him, the
answer to which might tend to criminate himself; that the
great weight of authority in the United States was in favor of
the rule that, -when a witness on oath declared his belief that
his answer would tend to criminate himself, the court could
not compel him to answer, unless it was perfectly clear, from
a careful consideration of all the circumstances in the case,
that the witness was mistaken, and that the answer could not
possibly have such a tendency ; and that the Hustings Court
had no right to compel Temple to answer the question propounded to him, and to fine and imprison him for his refusal
to answer it. The court further held, that the statute of the
State which provided that no witness giving evidence in a
prosecution for unlawful gaming should ever be proceeded
against for any offence of unlawful gaming committed by him
at the time and place indicated in such prosecution, did not
apply to the case then in hand, because setting up a lottery
was not within the statute against gnlawful gaming. The
judgment of the Hustings Court was reversed.
In Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, in 1886, this court,
in considering the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution oi

COUNSELALN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, which declares that no person "shall be
compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself," and the Fourth Amendment, which declares that the
right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers
and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall
not be violated, said, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley (p. 631):
"And any compulsory discovery by extorting the party's oath,
or compelling the production of his private books and papers,
to convict him of crime, or to forfeit his property, is contrary
to the principles of a free government. It is abhorrent to the
instincts of an Englishman; it is abhorrent to the instincts of
an American. It may suit the purposes of despotic power;
but it cannot abide the pure atmosphere of political liberty
and personal freedom." It was further said (p. 633): "We
have already noticed the intimate relation between the two
amendments. They throw great light on each other. For the
'unreasonable searches and seizures condemned in the Fourth
Amendment are almost always made for the purpose of compelling a man to give evidence against himself, which in
criminal cases is condemned in the Fifth Amendment; and
compelling a man 'in a criminal case to be a witness against
himself,' which is condemned in the Fifth Amendment, throws
light on the question as to what is an ' unreasonable search
and seizure' within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment.
And we have been unable to perceive that the seizure of a
man's private books and papers to be used in evidence against
him is substantially different from compelling him to be a witness against himself. We think it is within the clear intent
and meaning of those terms.

.

.

.

As,-therefore, suits for

penalties and forfeitures incurred by the commission of offences
against the law, are of this quasi-criminal nature, we think that
they are within the reason of criminal proceedings for all the
purposes of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, and of
that portion of the Fifth Amendment which declares that no
person shall -be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
against himself; and we are further of opinion that a compulsory production of the private books and papers of the owner
of goods sought to be forfeited in such a suit is compelling him

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tW be a witness against himself, within the meaning of the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, and is the equivalent of
a search and seizure -and an unreasonable search and seizure
- within the meaning 'of the Fourth Amendment. Though
the proceeding in question is divested of many of the aggravating incidents of actual search and seizure, yet, as before
said, it contains their substance and essence, and effects their
substantial purpose. It may be that it is the obnoxious thing
in its mildest and least repulsive form; but illegitimate and
unconstitutional practices get their first footing in that way,
namely, by silent approaches and slight deviations from legal
modes of procedure. This can only be obviate.d by adhering
to the rule that constitutional provisions for the security of
person and property should be liberally construed. A close
and literal construction deprives them of half their efficacy,
and leads to gradual depreciation of the right, as if it consisted
more in sound than in substance. It is the duty of courts to
be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and
against any stealthy encroachments thereon. Their motto
should be obsta princeiiis."

In that case, the fifth section of the act of June 22, 1874,
18 Stat. 187, which authorized the court in revenue cases to
require the defendant or claimant to produce his priyate
papers in court, or else the allegations of the government's
attorney would be taken as confessed, was held to be unconstitutional and void, as applied to a suit for a penalty or to
establish a forfeiture of the goods of the party, because it was
repugnant to the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution; and it was held that a proceeding to forfeit the
goods was a criminal case within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment. Mr. Justice Miller, in the concurring opinion of
himself and Chief Justice Waite in the case, agreed that it was
a criminal one, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment,
and that the effect of the act of -Congress was to compel the
party on whom the order of the court was served, to be a witness against himself.
In People v. Sharp, 107 N. Y. 427, in 1887, the Court of
Appeals of New York had under consideration the provision

COUNSELMAN v. HITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

of article 1, § 6, of the constitution of New York of 1846,
that no person shall "be compelled, in any criminal case, to
be a witness against himself," and the provision of § 79 of the
Penal Code of New York, title 8, chapter 1, in regard to
bribery and corruption, which was in these words: ." A person
offending against any provision of any foregoing section of
this code relating to bribery, is a competent witness against
another person so offending, and may be compelled to attend
and testify upon any trial, hearing, proceeding or investigation,
in the same manner as any other person. But the testimony
so given shall not be used in any prosecution or proceeding,
civil or criminal, against the person so testifying. A person
so testifying to the giving of a bribe which has been accepted,
shall not thereafter be liable to indictment, prosecution, or
punishment for that bribery, and may plead or prove the giving
of testimony accordingly, in bar of such an indictment or prosecution." Sharp and others were indicted for bribing a member.of the common council, and Sharp was tried separately.
It was proved that he had been examined as a witness before
a committee of the state senate, and there gave testimony
which the prosecution claimed was evidence of his complicity
in the crime; and that testimony was offered in evidence by
the prosecution. The testimony had been given under the
compulsion of a subpona, and was admitted at the trial,
against the objection that the disclosures before the senate
committee were privileged. The Court of Appeals held that
§ 79 of the Penal Code made the constitutional privilege inapplicable, because it indemnified or pr6tected the party against
the consequences of his previous testimony. The court cited
with approval the case of People v. -Yelly, euprct.
* In Bedgood v. The ,State, 115 Indiana, 275, in 1888, the
Supreme Court of Indiana had under consideration the provision of article 1, § 14 of the bill of rights of the constitution
of Indiana of 1851, which provides that "no persorn in any
criminal prosecution shall be compelled to testify against himself," and the provision of § 1800 of the Revised Statutes of
Indiana of 1881, to the effect that testimony given by a witness should not be used in any prosecution against him. On

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

a trial before a petit jury in a criminal case againpt others, a
woman had refused to answer a question, on the ground that
the answer might criminate her. The Supreme Court held
that, as the statute prohibited her testimony from being used
against her, it completely protected her, and the judgment
was reversed because the trial court had erroneously refused
to require her to answer the question.,
This review of the cases above referred to shows that in the
constitutions of Georgia, California and New York the pro-.
vision is identically or substantially that of the Constitution of
the United States, namely, that no person shall "be compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against himself ;" while
in the constitutions of Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Indiana, Massachusetts, Virginia, New Hampshire and North Carolina it
is different in language, and to the effect that "no man can be
compelled to give evidence against himself;" or that, in prosecutions, the accused "shall not be compelled to give evidence
against himself; ' or that "no person in any criminal prosecution shall be compelled to testify against himself;" or that
no person shall be "compelled to accuse or furnish evidence
against himself;" or that no man can "be compelled to give
evidence against himself;" or that, in all criminal prosecutions, "every man has the right to not be compelled to give
evidence against himself."
Under the constitutions of Arkansas, Georgia, California,
Indiana, New York, New Hampshire and North Carolina it
was held that a given statutory provision made it lawful to
compel a witness to testify; while in Massachusetts and Virginia it was held that the statutory provisions were inadequate,
in view of the constitutional provision. In New Hampshire,
and in New York under the Penal Code, it was held that the
statutory provisions were sufficient to supply the place of the
constitutional provision, because, by statute, the witness was
entirely relieved from prosecution.
But, as the manifest purpose of the constitutional provisions,
both of the States and of the United States, is to prohibit the
compelling of testimony of a self-criminating kind from a party
or a witness, the liberal construction which must be placed

COUNSELIMAN v. IITCHCOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

upon constitutional provisions for the protection of personal
rights would seem to require that the constitutional guaranties,
however differently worded, should have as far as possible the
same interpretation; and that where the constitution, as in
the cases of Massachusetts and New Hampshire, declares that
the subject shall not be "compelled to accuse or furnish evidence against himself," such a provision should not have a
different interpretation from that which belongs to constitutions like those of the United States and of New York, which
declare that no person shall be "-compelled in any crimitial
case to be a witness against himself." Under the rulings
above referred to, by C ief Justice Marshall and by this court,
and those in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Virginia,
the judgment of the Circuit Court in the present case cannot
be sustained. It is a reasonable construction, we think, of the
constitutional provision, that the witness is protected "from
being compelled to disclose the circumstances of his offence,
the sources from which, or the means by which, evidence of
its commission, or of his connection with it, may be obtained,
or made effectual for his connection, without using his answers
as direct admissions against him." Emery's Case, 107 MNlass.
172, 182.
It is quite clear that legislation cannot abridge a constitutional privilege, and that it cannot replace or supply one, at
least unless it is so broad as to have the same extent in scope
and effect., It is to be noted of § 860 of the Revised Statutes
that it does not undertake to compel self-criminating evidencefrom a party or a witness. In several of the state statutes
above reterred to, the testimony of the "party or witness is
made compulsory, and in some either all possibility of a future
prosecution of the party or witness is distinctly taken away,
or he can plead in bar or abatement the fact that he was compelled to testify.
We are clearly of opinion that no statute which leaves the
party or witness subject to prosecution after he answers the
criminating question put to him, can have the effect of supplanting the privilege conferred by the Constitution of the
United States. Section 860 of the lRevised Statutes does not

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

supply a complete protection from all the perils against which
the constitutional prohibition was designed to guard, and is
not a full substitute for that prohibition. In view of the constitutional provision, a statutory enactment, to be valid, must
afford absolute immunity against future prosecution for the
offence to which the question relates. In this respect, we give
our assent rather to the doctrine of Enery'8 Case, in Massachusetts, than to that of People v. Kelly, in New York; and
we consider that the ruling of this court in Boyd v. United
States, s8pra, supports the view we take. Section 860, moreover, affords no protection against that use of compelled testimony which consists in'gaining therefrom a knowledge of the
details of a crime, and of sources of information which may
supply other means of convicting the witness or party.
It is contended on the part of the appellee that the reason
why the courts in Virginia, Massachusetts and New Hampshire have held that the exonerating statute must be so broad
as to give the witness complete amnesty, is that the constitutions of those States give to the Wyitness a broader privilege
and exdmption than is granted by the Constitution of the
United States, in that their language is that the witness shall
not be compelled to accuse himself, or furnish evidence against
himself, or give evidence against himself; and it is contended
that the terms of the Constitution of the United States, and of
the constitutions of Georgia, California. and New York are
,more restricted. But we are of opinion that, however this difference may have been commented on in some of the decisions,
there is really, in spirit and principle, no distinction arising
out of such difference of language.
From a consideration of the language of the constitutional
provision, and of all the authorities referred to, we are clearly
of opinion that the appellant was entitled to refuse, as he did,
to answer. The judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded to that court, with a direction to discharge the appellantfrom custody, on the writ

of habea8 corpu8.

