OGHLAIN 0. SOUTH' OAROLIA I'D CO..

101

Syllabus.

cess not contained in themselves, and requiring, to be sustained, reference to the alleged cause of action.upon which
they are founded, the aid of the court should not be granted
when upon the face of the record it appears, not that mere
error supervened in the rendition of such judgments, tut that
they rest upon no cause of action whatever." This, however,
does not touch the question of the binding effect of judgments
when offered in evidence in a distinct and collateral action.
We know of no case holding their probative effect to be anything else than conclusive. Had the plaintiff county desired
further to test the validity of these bonds, it was its duty to
have appealed from this decree, as did the bank with respect
to the bonds which. that court held to be invalid, when the
question of the validity of both issues could have been heard
and determined by this court.
There was no error in the finding of the court ,below, and its
judgment must be
________Ajfi~'mned.

COGHLAN v.

.SOUTH

CAROLINA RAILROAD COM-

PA.NY.
'APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 47. Argued October 21, 22, 1891.- Decided December 7,1891.
When a contract for the payment of money at a future day, with interest
'meanwhile payable semi-annually, is made in one place, and is to be performed in another, -both as to interest and principal, and the interest be-'
fore maturity is payable according to the legal rate in the place of performance, the presumption is, in the absence of attendant circumstances
to show the contrary, that the principal bears interest after maturity at
the same rate.
The report of the master in a suit in equity to foreclose a railroad mortgage, to whom it had been referred to take proof of the claims, found as
to a bondholder, that his bonds were due and unpaid, that certain coupons
had been paid, and that certain other subsequent coupons had been paid,
but made no mention of the intervening coupons. No exception was
taken to this report. Held, that it was a reasonable inference that the
claimant did not offer these coupons in proof, and that the failure to find
as to them could not be urged as an objectiQn to the final decree.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Tim court stated the case as folloWs:
By an act of the general assembly of South Carolina, of
December 19, 1835, the Cincinnati and Charleston Railroad
Company was incorporated with power to construct a railroad from Charleston, South Carolina, to Cincinnati, Ohio.
8 Stats. So. Car. 409. See also 8 Stats. So. Car. 354, 355, 380,
384 406. Subsequently, December 21, 1836, the name of that
company was changed to that of the Louisville, Cincinnati and
Charleston Railroad Company. 8 Stats. So. Car. 96. By a
later act, passed December 19, 1843, the name of the latter
company was changed to that of 'the South Carolina Railroad
Company, which acquired, subject to certain conditions, the
rights, privileges, and property of the South Carolina Canal
and Railroad Company incorporated December 19, 1827. 11
Stats. So. Car. 273
The Louisville, Cincinnati and Charleston Railroad Company, before its change of name, and by virtue of an act of
December 20, 1837, and an act amendatory thereof, passed
December 19, 1838, 6 Stats. So. Car. 571, 604, issued its bonds
for the sum. of about four hundred and fifty thousand pounds
sterling, redeemable on the first day of January, 1866, and
bearing -interest at the rate of five per cent per annum, some
in denominations of £500, others of £250. The £500 bonds
were in the following form:
"£500 st'g.

£500 st'g.

"UmTED"STATES op Aw'mcA, STATE OF Soum CARoLiNA.

"Five Per Oent.Loan.
"The Louisville, Cincinnati and Charleston Railroad Company, under the guarantee of the State of South Carolina,
promise to pay to bearer five hundred pounds sterling, redeemable on the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred
and sixty-six, and not before without the consent of the holder
of this certificate, with interest thereon at the rate of five per
cent per annum from the date hereof, the said. interest to be
paid semi-annually, on the first days of January and July, on
presenting the proper coupons for the same at the house of

COGHLAI

v. SOUTH CAROLINA RI'D CO.
Statement of the Case.

Palmers, Maekillop, Dent & Co., London, where the principal
will also be redeemed on the surrender of this certificate.
"In witness whereof the said company has
"[sEA..]
caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, at
Charlest6n, this 31st day of December, 1838.
"ROB'T Y. KAYNE,

President.

"E. H. Edwards, Sedy & Treaslr."
To each bond a warrant or coupon was attached in this
form: "Louisville, Cincinnati and Charleston Railroad Company, warrant No. 49, for X12 10s., being half yearly interest
on bond C. No. 18, payableJanuary 1, 1863. E. H. Edwards,
Treas'r." These warrants were endorsed: "Payable at Messrs.
Palmers, Mackillop, Dent & Co."
The £250 bonds were in the same form as the ones of larger
amount, the coupons or warrants calling only for £6 5s. interest.
Upon the back of each bond was endorsed the above act of
December 20, 1831, in these words:
"An act to lend the credit of the State to secure any loan
which may be made by the Louisville, Cincinnati and
Charleston Railroad Company, and for other purposes.
"Be it enac ed by the Senate and House of Representatives,
now met and sitting in General Assembly, and by the authority of the same, That the faith and funds of the State of South
Carolina be, and the same are hereby, pledged to secure the
punptual payment of any contract which shall be made for
borrowing money by the Louisville, Cincinnati and Charleston
Railroad Company from any person or persons, company or
companies, corporation or corporations, to any amount not
exceeding two millions of dollars, either in the United States
or in Europe; and when such contract or contracts shall be
made by bond or bonds, certificate or certificates, or other
instrument or instruments, signed by the president of the said
company, under its seal, and countersigned by the secretary
thereof, it shall be the duty of the comptroller general of this
State to endorse thereon that the faith and funds of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of South Carolina are pledged to the faithful performanc6 of
the said contract or' contracts, both as it respects the punctual
payment of the jrincipal and of the interest, according to the
terms of the said contract or contracts: Provided,that the
interest to be received thereby and made payable thereon shall
not exceed the rate of five per cent per annum; and provided,
also, that the comptroller general shall not endorse any such
contract until five hundred thousand dollars shall be paid to
the company on the stock thereof, in which event he shall
pledge the funds and faith of the State for one million of dollars; and when five hundred thousand dollars rnore shall be
paid to the company on the stock thereof, the comptroller general shall pledge the funds and faith of the State for one other
million of dollars."
Immediately following this copy of the act, on each bond,
was this guaranty: "The condition of the above act, having
been faithfully complied with, I do hereby, for and in behalf
of the State of South Carolina, endorse her guaranty on this
bond for the payment and redemption of the principal and
interest of the same. Win. Ed. Hayne, Comptroller."
The appellant, being the owner of six of the £500 bonds,
and of twelve of the £250 bonds; with seven semi-annual coupons attached to each, and also some odd coupons, brought
this suit, April 4, 1881, in one of the courts of the State of
South Carolina, against the South Carolina Railroad Company
and others, and prayed that the property covered by the mortgage created by the act of December 20, 1837 -which mortgage the State had failed to foreclose, and could not be
compelled by suit to foreclose -be
sold, and the proceeds
applied, first, to the expenses of the suit, and then to the payment of the bonds held by the plaintiff ana other creditors of
the same class, with interest up to the time of payment and
exchange on London.
The suit was removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of South Carolina, a receiver of which,
court held possession of the property, under an order made
September 19, 1878, in the case of Calvin Claflin v. South
Carolina Railroad Company.

COG]HILA.N v. SOUTH CAROLINA R'D 00.
Statement of the Case.

It is stated in an opinion of the court below, [Record, 132,1
that after the bonds matured in 1866, various plans to arrange
the debt were suggested, adopted and abandoned; that, finally,
the railroad company offered to settle past-due sterling bonds
by issuing in exchange first mortgage bonds, not guaranteed
by the State, so that for each sterling bond of £250 and thp
interest due thereon, the holder would get a first mortgage
bond of £300, and for each bond of £500 and interest, a first
mortgage bond of £600; that the proposed new bonds were
dated July 1, 1868, called for semi-annual interest at five per
cent, and were made payable, as were the guaranteed bonds,
in London; and that Coghlan declined to exchange his bonds
for the new ones, but consented to receive, and, in fact, received, payment of semi-annual instalments of interest, precisely as if he had made the exchange -that is, he received
interest omhis £500 and £250 bonds as if they were, respec-,
tively, for £600 and £300.
By a decree entered December 15, 1883, it was adjudged
that the plaintiff's recovery for bonds held and proved by him
should be as follows: Upon each bond for £500 and £250,
respectively, and past-due coupons attached, so held and
proved, the sums of £600 and £300, respectively, with interest
thereon from 1st July, 1868, at the rate of five per cent per
annum, payable semi-annually as if said bonds had on the
latter date been exchanged for new bonds for £600 and £300,
respectively, dated 1st July, 1868, less all amounts that may
have been paid on account of the same by the South Carolina
Railroad Company or the receiver thereof as semi-annual
interest.
The cause was referred to a special master to take an
account of the amount due on the bonds and coupons held by
Coghlan. From that decree Coghlan took an appeal, which
was, upon his motion, dismissed by this court, May 27, 1887,
for the reason, no doubt, that the decree appealed from was
only interlocutory. 122 U. S. 649. Upon the return of the cause
the master reported that the amount due him up to July 1,
1887, upon the bonds, as if exchanged, calculating the interest
at five per cent with semi-annual rests, and giving interest

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

upon interest at the same rate, was £10,620; and up to FebHe reruary 28, 1883, upon the same basis, was £8625.A.
ported also that on the date last named a tender was made
to the plaintiff's then attorney of $44,600. In making his
calculations the master reported that the pound sterling in all
payments was to be estimated at $4.44@.
By the final decree, passed November 2, 1887, it was adjudged that the amount due the appellant was X10,798.19 9
the principal and interest on the bonds held by him calculated
according to the principles of the master's report; and, rating
the pound at $4.444, the above amount was equivalent to
$47,995.28; the interest, after the decree, to be.at the rate of
seven per cent per annum.
[This sum did not include the coupons for January and
July, 1867, and January, 1868. The record was silent as to
the reason for the omission.]
-Y. HI. E. Young for appellant.
with him on the brief.

.M.. ame.a Lowndes was

The first thing that will strike this court is that the Circuit
Court has held that the appellant has done that which he
declared he would not do - has not in fact done - and which
the respondent's agent assured him he had not done, viz.'
converted his bonds of 1838, with the State's guarantee on
them -with
no limit on the value of the pound sterling
with the question of the rate of interest after maturity
open - into bonds without this guarantee; with the value of
the pound sterling fixed arbitrarily at an amount below its
true value with the rate of interest after maturity fixed at
five per cent and with the surrender of three coupons, which
to the date of the decree, even calculated as the Circuit Court
ordered, at five per cent with interest on interest at same rate,
amount to £1128 158., or at the $4.444 rate, to $5113.24.
The questions now before this court are: (1) By what law
is the rate of interest on these overdue bonds fixed, that of
England (five per cent) or of South Carolina (seven per cent)?
(2) Is not the appellant entitled to his three unpaid half yearly
interest coupons which have been simply ignored by the Circuit Court ?

COGHLAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA R'D 00.
Argument for Appellant.,

I. The appellant claims that upon all past-due coupons and
past-due bonds, he is entitled that interest be calculated accord-

ing to the rate fixed by law in South Carolina, viz. seven per
cent. That this is the rate in South Carolina upon both overdue bonds and coupons, was not disputed. But if it is doubted
now, it is enough to refer to the case of Langston, v. South
CarolinaRailroad Co., 2 So. Car. 249.
It has also been held in South Carolina that where a person
entered inito a, bond, conditioned for the payment of four -per
ceilt interest on legacies till the legatee comes of age, to pay
him his proportion of the principal, the legatees are entitled to
seven per cent interest (i.e. the legal interest of the State) from
the time the bond becomes duo. Gaillard v. Ball, 1 Nott &
McCord, 67.
In Brewster v. Wakfield; 22 How. 118, in which the opinion
was delivered by Chief Justice Taney, the court held, as to
the mode of computing interest where the note did not, by the
contract, carry the*interest expressed until its full satisfaction,
that, when it fell due, the statute must interpose and regulate
,
it. See also Valn-ut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683.
-Also in South Carolina when the interest is payable at- certain times, interest is calculated on interest- from the dates it
fell due. O'.Aeall v. Bookman, 9 Rich. (Law) 80, 82; Wright
v. Eaves, 10 Rich. (Eq.) 582; Sharpe v. Lee, 14 So. Car. 34:1.
Though as fixed by this court in Holden v. Trust Co., 100
U. S. 74, this "question of interest is always one of local law;"
the rule of this court is the same as that of South Carolina.
-grewter v. Wakefield, 22 How. 118; Aurora City v. West,
7 Wall. 82; Bernhisel v. Firman, 22 Wall. 179; fBolden v.
Trust Co., 100 U. S. 72; Ohio v. Frank, 103 U. S. 67; X"1as8.
Benefit Association v. Xiles, 137 U. S. 690.
As to the question of the rate. Does the law of South Carolina, seven per cent, govern? or does the law of England, five
per cent, govern? We submit that the law of South Carolina
does!
No question of law has been more unsettled than this whether the lexfori or the kx loci contractus shall 5revail. It
has never been definitely settled. See 16 Am. Law Review, 497;

OCTOBER TER,, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

Story Conflict of Laws, 7th ed. § 296, a.

One of the most

recent and satisfactory solutions is by Professor Bar of Gcettingen. He says: "If in some foreign country where a subject of this country has an estate or a trading house, a higher
rate of interest than ours is allowed and is in use by reason
that capital is more scarce or the security is not so good, then
the foreign lender, with whose money the estate has been
improved or the trading concern extended, is entitled even
in our courts to demand his -higher rate of interest as was
arranged. The restrictions on the rates of interest are local
taxes upon the price of money. The opposite theory, instead
of benefiting our citizens, would destroy their credit."
In our case, no rate of interest after maturity is fixed, nor
is any place fixed for its payment after maturity -no agent
is appointed in England, to accept service of legal proceedings
-nor was it in any way possible to obtain a judgment in
England which could be enforced against the company's
property. The only remedy Coghlan had was to appeal to
the State, or, as that, since the close of the war, is notoriously
useless, to enforce the statutory mortgage given to the State
to secure their bonds.
The cases in the lUnited States Supreme Court show the
same apparent discrepancy, though real agreement on the point
suggested by Professor Bar that, after maturity, the rate of
interest'allowed is that of the place where the money is really
used. De Wolf v. Johnson, 10 Wheat. 367; Andrews v. Pond,
13 Pet. 65; Cook v. Moffat, 5 How. 295 f -Miller v. TDffany,
1 Wall. 298.
II. As to the coupons ignored by the decree. These coupons are still attached to the bonds, in the hands of the appellant, who is also the holder of the bonds. That they are not
barred by time was not questioned. They became due January and July, 1867, and January 1, 1868. This suit was begun
on the 4th April, 1&ol. Twenty years is the bar to the bonds
in South Carolina. Shurick v. Adams, 20 So. Car. 49, 52;
The City v. Lamson 9 W4l. 477; -Lexington v. Butler, 14
Wall. 282; Clark v. Iowa City, 20 Wall. 583; Bond .Debt
Cases. 12 So. Car. 200, 273.

COGHLAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. William E.
MR. JusTiCE. HinLr
opinion of the court.

arle for appellee.
, after stating the cas6, delivered the

We have seen that the bonds in suit were redeemable on the'
first day of January, 1866, and not before without the consent
of the holder, and were payable in pounds sterling with
interest at the rate of five per cent per annum from date, the
interest to be paid semi-annually on named days, "on presenting the proper coupons for the same at the house of Palmers;
Mackillop, Dent & Co., London, where the principal will also
be redeemed on the surrender-of this certificate." The contract, therefore, was one which in all its parts was to be performed in England. Nevertheless, it is contended that the
principal sum agreed to be paid should bear interest at the
rate, seven per cent, fixed by the laws of South Carolina. The
only basis for this contention is the mere fact that the bonds
purport to have been made in that State. But that fact is not
conclusive. All the terms of the contract must be examined,
in connection withi the attendant circumstances, to ascertain
what law was in the view of the parties when the contract
was executed. For, as said by Chief Justice Marshall in Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 48, it is a principle, universally
recognized, that "in every forum a, contract is governed by the
law with a view to which it was made." And by Lord Mansfield, in Robinson v. Bland, 2 Burrow, 107, 1078: "The parties had a view to the law of England. The law of the place
can never be the rule when the transaction is entered into with
an express view to the law of another country as the rule by
which it is to be governed. Now here the payment is to be
in England; it is an English security, and so intended by the
parties." Referring to these and many other cases, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, held, upon full consideration, in Pritchardv. _Yorton, 106 U. S. 124, 136, that the law
upon which the nature, interpretation and validity of a contract depended, was that which the parties, either expressly or
presumptively, incorporated into it as constituting its obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. This doctrine was reaffirmed in '-Liverpool &c. Seam
Co. v. Phkwix In. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 458, where it was said
that, according to the great preponderance, if not the uniform
concurrence of authority, the. general rule was, "that the
nature, the obligation and the interpretation of a contract are
to be gpverned by the law of the place where it is made, unless
the parties at the time of making it have some other law in
view." The elaborate and careful review of the adjudged
cases, American and English, in the two cases last cited, leaves
nothing to be said upon the general subject.
What law, then, did the parties have in view as determining the legal consequences resulting from the non-performance
of the contract between them? Presumptively, the law of
England, where the contract was to be entirely performed.
The bonds and coupons were to be presented and paid there,
and not elsewhere. They were to be paid in pounds sterling
at a designated house in London. The fair inference is that
the railroad company negotiated the bonds abroad, and made
them payable in that city, in order to facilitate a sale of them
to foreign buyers. Every circumstance connected with the
contract tends to show that the parties intended that all questions in respect to performance or the legal consequences of a
failure to perform, were to be determined by the law of the
place, and the only place, where the obligation to make payment could be discharged, and where the breach of that obligation would occur, if payment was not made at the appointed
time and place. In this view of the contract, the rate of
interest, after the maturity of the obligations, was not determinable by the law of South Carolina. This is abundantly
established by the authorities.
In De Wolf v. Johnson, 10 Wheat. 367, 383, the court said:
"The legal fulfilment of a contract of loan, on the part of the
borrower, is repayment of the money, and the security given
is but the means of securing what he has contracted for,
which, in the eye of the law, is to pay where he borrows,
unless another place of payment be expressly designated by
the contract." In Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65, 77, Chief
Justice Taney, speaking for the court, said: "The general

COGHLA T v. SOUTH CAROLIIA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.'

principle in relation to contracts made in one plkce to be executed in another is well settled. They are to be governed by
the law of the' place of performance : and if the interest
allowed by the laws of the place of performance is higher
than that permitted at the place of the contract, the parties
may stipulate for the- higher interest without incurring the
penalties of usury." So, in Carnegie v. Aorrison, 2 :Met. (Mass.)
381, 397, Chief Justice Shaw, after stating the general rule to
be that the lex loci contractus determines the nature and legal
quality of the act done, whether it constitutes a contract, etc.,
said: "But a contract, made in one country, may contemplate
the execution of deeds, or other contracts, making payments
or doing other legal acts, in aiother; in regard to which, the
law of the foreign country, where the act is to be done, will
gbvern the contract." In Cooper v. The Earl of Waldegrave,
2 Beavan, 282, 284, which was an action against the acceptor
of bills of exchange, drawn in Paris, where the drawer and
acceptor were at the time resident, and made payable in London, the bills, on their face, did not state any particulat rate
of interest. Lord. Langdale, Master of the Rolls, after observing that the law of the country where a contract, merely personal, is made, determines its validity and interpretation,
while the law of the forum regulates the mode of suing, and
the time within which suit must be brought for non-performance, said: "The contract of the acceptor, which alone is now
to be considered, is to pay in England; the non-payment of
the money when the bill becomes due is a breach in England
6f the contract which was to be performed in England. Upon
the breach, the right to damages or interest immediately
accrues; interest is given as compensation for the non-payment in England and for the delay of payment suffered in
England; and I thisk that the law of .England,that is, the
law of the place where the default has happened, must govern
the allowance 6f interest which arises out of that default."
See also, Boycev. Edwardg, 4 Pet. 11i, 123; -Millerv. Tifany,
1 Wall 298, 310; Scudder v. Union National Bank, 91 U. S.
406, 412; Scotland County v. Hill,'132 U. S. 107, 116; Story's
Conflict of Laws, § 291; 2 Kent. Com. 459, 460, 461; Scoj6ld

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Day, 20 Johns. 102; Dickinon v. Edward, 77 N. Y. 573;
F'reea v. Brownell, 35 N. J. Law (6 Vroom) 285, 287; Peck8
v. Mayo, 14 Vermont, 33, 38; Exparte Hfeidelach, 2 Lowell,
526, 530; Hunt's Executor v. iall, 37 Alabama, 702, 704;
Arnold v. Potter, 22 Iowa, 194, 198.
The cases of Tilden v. Blair, 21 Wall. 241, 247, and Euitable Trust Co. v. -Fowler,141 U. S. 384, are in entire harmony with these principles. Tilden v. Blair was an action
by the holder of a bill'drawn at Chicago, Illinois, upon parties in New York, and accepted payable at a bank in New
York. The defence was usury, and the question was presented
as to whether the contract was a New York or an Illinois contract. If a New York contract, there could have been no
recovery; for, by the law of that State, if a contract was
usurious, it was void, and no recovery could have been had of
principal or interest. The court held it to be an Illinois contract and its validity determinable by the laws of that State,
for the reason that before the acceptance had any operation,
before it became a bill, the acceptors (for whose accommodation
the bill was drawn) sent it to Illinois to be there negotiated,
and, by that act, indicated a purpose to create an Illinois bill.
The court also based- its judgment, in part, upon an Illinois
statute providing that when any contract or loan is made in
that State, or between its citizens and the citizens of any other
State or country, bearing interest at a rate that was legal in
Illinois, it should be lawful to make the principal and interest
payable in any other State or Territory, or in London, in
which case the contract or loan should be deemed and considered as governed by the laws of Illinois, and not be affected
by the laws of the place where it was to be performed. Rev.
Stats. Illinois, 1874, p. 615, c. 74.
given in Illinois
It was because of that statute that abte
by a citizen of that State to a Connecticut corporation, payable in New York, for money loaned by the latter to the former, and secured by mortgage upon real estate in Illinois, was
held, in Equitable Trust Co. v. -Fowler,not to be a New York
contract in respect to the interest that might be taken, but
to be, in that regard, governed by the laws of Illinois.

COGHLAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The presumption arising from the face of the bonds, that
the legal consequences of a failure to pay them, according to
their terms, were to be determiiied by the law of the place of
performance, is strengthened by the practical construction the
parties put upon the contract after the bonds matured. Seven
coupons, with the .instalment of interest for July 1, 1866, all
held by appellant, were "capitalized" upon the basis of treating the £500 bonds as bonds for £600, and the £250 bonds as
bonds for £300. The appellant refused to surrender his bonds,
for fear that by so doing he would -lose the benefit of the
State's guaranty of them; yet he received interest from time to
time as if they had been exchanged. On the 13th of April,
1869, a payment was made to him of interest due July 1, 1868,
which was eidorsed on his bonds, in this form: "Paid on this
bond £15, half-yearly dividend due 1st July, 1868, as if it had
been exchanged for a new bond." A similar endorsement was
made on his bonds for each half-year's dividend or interest up
to July 1, 1880. When the receiver, in Claflin v. South Carolina Railroad Company, made payments of interest, such payments were stamped upon the bonds in this form: "Paid £30
sterling, interest due July 1, 1878, and January 1, 1879." For
the interest paid to him for July 1, 1879, appellant executed a
receipt in this form: 1" Received of Baring Brothers & Co., as
agents of John H. Fisher, receiver of the South Carolina Railroad Company, ninety pounds sterling, being interest due July
1, 1879, on bonds of the Louisville, Cincinnati and Charleston
Railroad Company, of £500 each, with eight coupons attached,
representing 600 pounds sterling, and numbered, respectively,
as follows: 18, 19, 20, 22, 23." Receipts of the same kind
were given for him, by his London bankers, for the interest
due January 1, 1880. Similar payments of interest were made
and endorsed, throughout the whole period from July 1, 1868,
to July 1, 1880, on the twelve oiiginal £250 bonds, differing
from the others only in showing that the half-yearly interest
paid on those bonds was £7 108. The receipts or endorsements
on both series of bonds show that, commencing regularly with
the interest due July 1, 1868, but including the instalment due
July 1, 1866, Coghlan received interest, at the rate of five per
'VOL. CXLII-8

OCTOBER TER]I, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

cent per annum, upon the £500 and £250 bonds, respectively,
as if exchanged for £600 and £300 bonds. He admits, in
his deposition, that the only demand ever made by or on his
behalf of interest, at the rate of seven per cent on the bonds
was by his original complaint in this suit filed August 28,
1880. These facts make it clear that the claim of interest,
after the maturity of the bonds, at the rate of seven per cent
instead of the rate of five per cent, was an afterthought upon
his part.
In what has been said, we have assumed that the allowance
of interest at the rate of five per cent per annum was in conformity with the law of the place of payment. The court was
.not informed by the pleadings or proof as to what that law
was, and judicial notice could not, therefore, be taken of it.
Liverpool Steam Co. v. PAcW
A7%8. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 445,
and authorities there cited. The railroad company makes no
complaint of the allowance that was made of interest, and the
appellant does not claini that a larger allowance was required
by the law of the place of performance. He insists only that
he was entitled, of right, after the maturity of the bonds and
the respective coupons, to interest at the rate, seven per cent,
fixed by the laws of' South Carolina; and this, notwithstanding the guaranty by the State of the faithful performance of
the contract of loan was upon the condition that "the interest
to be received thereby and made payable thereon" should not
exceed the rate of five per cent per annum. For the reasons
already stated, we are of opinion that the law of that State
did not determine the rate of interest, and that this interpretation of the contract, if it were doubtful, is sustained by the
practical construction placed upon it by the conduct of the
parties.
One other question in the case requires notice at our hands.
The railroad company did not prove payment of the instalments of interest due January and July, 1867, and January,
1868, although the evidence shows payment of the interest due
July 1, 1866, and the interest accruing on and after July 1,
1868, up to July 1, 1880. A reversal is asked upon the ground,
among the others already examined, that the court erred in

COGHLAN v. SOUTH CAROLITNA R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

not requiring the interest due on the above dates, respectively,
to be paid with interest after maturity to the date of the final
decree. No mention is made in the special master's report of
May 5, 1882, or in the interlocutory decree of 1883, or in the
master's report of 1887, or in the final decree of 1887, of the
interest due January and July, 1867, and January, 1868. There
was no exception to the reports of 1882 and 1887, upon the
ground that they did. not include interest for those three
periods of six months. The reasonable inference is that the
appellant did not produce before the master and prove the
interest coupons for those periods, or did not ask that they be
included in the report as to the amount due upon the basis
fixed in the interlocutory decree of 1883. Having failed to
except to the report upon the ground that it did not include
them, we do not think that the appellant should be now heard,
to urge this as an objection to the final decree. Besides, as by
the evidence the interest due July 1, 1866, was included with
the interest due July 1, 1868, in the capitalization whereby the
£500 and £250 bonds were treated as if exchanged for £600
and £300 bonds, it Would be strange if the instalment of interest due for the intermediate periods of January and, July, 1867,
and January, 1868, were not embraced by that arrangement.
There is no explanation of this in the record. It is not an
unreasonable presumption, in view of all the circumstances,
that in some way, not disclosed by the evidence, those coupons
were settled, or treated as settled, when the railroad company
commenced in 1869 to pay, and the appellant received, interest
on the bonds, as if exchanged for new bonds of X600 and £300.
Be this as it may, we are not inclined to disturb the decree
upon the ground that it does not make provision for the interest coupons due January and July, 1867, and January, 1868.
Decree afflrmed.
M

.JUSTICE GnR.y did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision of this case.

