OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

Indeed as the evidence tended to show an intent on Kaiser's
part, at the time of the suing out of the attachment, to defi'aud
his creditors by putting his property into the shape of notes
and placing them beyond their reach, proof of Kaiser's acts of
a similar nature, occurring immediately after the attachment
writ issued, would have been admissible if in casual relation
with what the whole evidence showed was one transaction.
Of course, this would not be so as to independent and isolated
action after the issue of the writ, but when happening in immediate connection with what preceded, and as part of one
whole, the evidence would be admissible; and we are clear
that, tested by the record before us, the question was legitimate and proper on cross-examination, and the objection
should not have been sustained.
The judgment is therefore rever8ed and the cause remanded
to the Circuit Court, 'witA a direction to grant a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE BLATcOFORD took no part in the decision of this
case.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v,.
WASHINGTON TERRITORY eme rel. DUSTIN{.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHIINGTON.

IWo. 24. Ar7gued March 24, 1891. -Decided

January 4,1892.

Mandamus will not lie to compel a railroad corporation to build a station
at a particular place, unless there is a specific duty, imposed by statute,
to do so, and clear proof of a breach of that duty.
A petition for a mandamus to compel a railroad corporation to perform a
definite duty to the public, which it has distinctly manifested an intention not to perform, is rightly presented in the name of the State, at the
relation of its prosecuting attorney, and without previous demand.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company (whose charter authorized it to
locate, construct and maintain a continuous railroad from Lake Superioi
to Puget Sound, "by the most eligible route, as shall be determined by
said company," within limits broadly described, and directed that its

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIIi.

493

Statement of the Case.
road should "be constructed in a substantial and workmanlike manner,
with all the necessary draws, culverts, bridges, viaducts, crossings,
turnouts, stations and watering places, and all other appurtenances,")
constructed its railroad through the county of Yakima, and stopped its
trains for a while at Yakima City, then the county seat and the principal
town In the county; but, on completing its road four miles further to
North Yakima, a town which it had laid out on its own laud, established
a freight and passenger station there, and ceased to stop its trains at
Yakima City. Thereupon a writ of mandamus'was applied for to compel It to build and maintain a, station at Yakima City, and to stop its
trains there. Afterwards, and before the hearing, Yakima City rapidly
dwindled, and most of its inhabitants removed. to North Yakima, which
became the principal town in the county, and was made by the legislature the county seat; there were other stations which furnished sufficient
facilities for the country south of North Yakima; the earnings of this
division of the road were insufficient to pay its running expenses; and
the passenger and freight traffic of the people living in the surrounding
country, considering them as a community, would be better accommodated at North Yakima than at Yakima City. Held, that a writ of mandamus should not issue.

A PETITION in the name of the Territory of' Washington, at
the relation of the prosecuting attorney for the county of
Yakima and four other counties in the Territory, was filed in
the district court of the fourth judicial district of the Territory,
on February 20, 1885, for a mandamus to compel the lorthern Pacific Railroad Company to erect and maintain a station
at Yakima City, on the Cascade Branch of its railroad, extending from 'Pasco Junction on the Columbia River up the valley
of the Yakima River, and through the county of Yakima,
towards Puget Sound, and to stop its trains there to receive
ind deliver freight, and to receive and let off passengers.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated
by act of Congress of July, 2,, 1864, c. 217, and was thereby
"1authorized and empowered to lay out, locate, construct, furnish, maintain and enjoy a continuous railroad and telegraph
line, with the appurtenances, namely, beginning at a point on
Lake Superior, in the State of Minnesota or Wisconsin, thence
westerly, by the most eligible railroad route, as shall be determined by said company, within the territory of the United
States, on a line north of The forty-fifth degree of latitude to
some point on Puget's Sound, with a branch, via the valley of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the'Case.

the Columbia River, to a point at or near Portland in the
State of Oregon, leaving the main trunk line at the most suitable place, not more than three hundred miles from its western terminus; and is hereby vested with all the povers,
privileges and immunities necessary to carry into effect the.
purposes of this act as herein set forth." By § 5 of its charter,
it was enacted "that said Northern Pacific Railroad shall be
constructed in a substantial and workmanlike manner, with
all the necessary draws, culverts, bridges, viaducts, crossings,
turnouts, stations and watering places, and all other appurtenances, including furniture and rolling stock, equal in all respects
to railroads of the first class when prepared for business, with
rails of the best quality, manufactured from American iron;
and a uniform gauge shall be established throughout the
entire length of the road." And by § 20 it was enacted "that
the better to accomplish the object of this act, namely, to promote the public interest and welfare by the construction of
said railroad and telegraph line, and keeping the same in
working order, and to secure to the government at all times
(but particularly in time of war) the use and benefits of the
same for postal, military and other purposes, Congress may,
at any time, having due regard for the rights of said Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, add to, alter, amend or repeal this
act." 13 Stat. 366, 368, 372.
The petition set forth at length the size and importance
of Yakima City and its need of railroad accommodations;
alleged that it was the county seat of Yakima County, a
county having more than 4000 inhabitants, and had a courthouse where courts of the United States and of the Territory
were held, and a United States land office; that the defendant
had refused to establish a freight and passenger station or to
stop its trains at Yakima City, but was building a freight and
passenger stationd and stopping its trains at the rival town of
North Yakima, four miles further north, which it had laid out
on its own unimproved land, and was ruining Yakima City
for the purpose df enhancing the value of its own town site.
The answer, filed June 1, 1885, said nothing as to the courthouse; admitted that at the time of filing the petition there

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

495

Statement of the Case.

was a United States land office at Yakima City, but alleged
that it had since been removed by order of the President of
the United States to North Yakima; admitted that Yakima
City heretofore had 500 inhabitants, but alleged that since the
construction of the defendant's railroad two-thirds of them
had removed with .their houses, and other buildings to North
Yakima, and others were continually abandoning it, and no
buildings or business were replacing those taken away; denied
that it had laid out the town of North Yakima for the purpose of enhancing the value of its own property or for the
purpose of injuring the property of any other person, town or
city; and alleged that there was not business enough to warrant more than one station on'this part of its road, and that
North Yakima was a much larger and more prosperous town
than Yakima City ever was, and was a more convenient point
for the people of the neighboring valleys, who were more
than fifteen times as many, and had more than fifteen times
as much taxable property, as the people living in Yakima City
and its immediate vicinity.
The parties also made allegations and denials, and (after
the filing of a replication not copied in the record) introduced
evidence at the trial by a jury, as to the matters afterwards
stated in the special verdict, which was returned October 17,
1885, in answer to forty-six questions submitted by the court,
and was in substance as follovs:
In January, 1885, the defendant carried freight and passengers for hire on its railroad to and from Yakima City, and
liept an agent there who attended to the freight and sold
tickets to passengers. But before February 20, 1885, having
completed its rQad to North Yakima, it ceased to stop its
trains at Yakima City, and established a freight and passenger
station at North Yakima; and, pursuant to § 4 of its charter,
tendered its road to the United States as fully completed and
equipped from Pasco Junction to or beyond Yakima City, and
caused to be appointed by the President of the United States
commissioners to examine and report on the condition of the
road. On March 16, 1885, that part of its road from Pasco
Junction by Yakima City to North Yakima had not beeni

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

turned over to the operating department of the company, but
the freight and passenger trains were not run as subordinate
to the construction of the road.
In January, 1885, Yakima City was the oldest and largest
town, and the most important business centre, on the Cascade
Branch of the defendant's railroad, between the Columbia
River and Puget Sound. On February 20, 1885, and when
the defendant built and operated its road to Yakima City, the
amount of business done at Yakima City annually was $250,000, its population was 500, and there was no other town or
business centre of any importance in Yakima County.
I On October 17, 1885, Yakima City was the largest town,
and the most important business centre in the county, except
the town of North Yakima; the population of Yakima City
wa- 150; there were seventy children attending school there;
and it had two hotels, a flour mill, thirteen stores and places
of business, twenty-seven dwelling houses and but a limited
amount of industries requiring railroad facilities. The amount
of business furnished by Yakima City to the defendant over
that portion of its road between Pasco Junction and North
Yakima in the" summer of 1885 was in June 16,000 lbs., in
July 4000 lbs., in August none, in September 2400 lbs., in
October none; and during that period no product of Yakima
City or the country adjoining was fdrnished by any one to
be carried over the defendant's road.
There is a safe and suitable'place for a freight and passenger station in Yakima City on the line of the defendant's road,
and the defendant has the ability to construct and maintain
such a station there, with freight and passenger facilities. If
the defendant had done so, Yakima City would have retained
its former size and importance. No demand was ever made
upon the defendant for the establishment of a freight and
passenger station there. The expense of constructing and
fitting for practical use" a station and warehouse at Yakima
City would be about $8000, and of keeping the requisite agents
there $150 a month. The wear and tear and cost of stopping
a train at a station is $1.
The passenger and freight traffic of the people living in the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

497

Statement of the Case.

valleys of the streams entering the Yakima River at and near
Yakima City and North Yakima, considering them as a community, would be better accommodated at North Yakima than
at Yakima City. There are other stations for receiving freight
and passengers on that part of the defendant's railroad, extending from Pasco Junction to North Yakima, called Yakima
Division, furnishing sufficient facilities for all the country
below North Yakima; and the earnings of that division are
not sufficient to pay its running expenses.
On the verdict of the jury and the admissions in the pleadings, each party moved for judgment; and on April 23, 1886,
the District Court ordered a peremptory mandamus to issue,
in accordance with the prayer of the petition. The record
showed that the District Court during the previous proceedings in the case was held at Yakima City, but at the time of
rendering judgment was held at North Yakima, to which the
county seat and the court-house had been removed pursuant
to the statute of the Territory of January 9, 1886. Laws of
Washington Territory of 1885-6, pp. 57, 457. On appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, the judgment of the
District Court was affirmed.- 3 Wash. Ter. 303. The defendant thereupon sued out this writ of error, and assigned the
following errors:
"First. That the proceedings were not commenced by the
proper relator, or in the name or on behalf of the real party in
interest.
"Second. That Yakima City is the real party in interest.
"Third. The application and petition do not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
"Fourth. The findings of the jury are not sufficient to sustain
and are inconsistent with the judgment rendered thereon by
the court.
"Fifth. The jury found that existing depot and stations
between North"Yakima and Pasco furnished sufficient railroad-station facilities.
"Sixth. The jury found affirmatively that the railroad, at the
time of the application and the return thereto, was in the hands
of the railroad contractors and construction departihent.
VOL.

cxL-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"Seventh. That the business furnished said railroad company by said Yakima City and its people and transacted at
said Yakima City by said railroad was not sufficient to pay
the running expenses of a station at said place.
"Eighth. The jury found that no demand whatever was
ever made upon the Northern Pacific Railroad Company for
the said station or other depot facilities mentioned in the said
application and the judgment of said court.
"Ninth. No facts are found showing any necessity for
other or additional stations and facilities than those already
furnished.
"Tenth. The charter of the Northern Pacific Railroad Company vests in said company a discretionary power in reference
to locating and constructing and maintaining its stations.
"Eleventh. That the matters set forth in the application and
findings by the jury are not matters which the law specially
enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station.
"Twelfth. That the -judgment affirming the judgment of
the District Court rendered on the findings of the jury, and
the writ thereon, are vague, uncertain and insufficient, in not
directing and defining what said Northern Pacific Railroad
Company was to do 'under said judgment and writ, especially
as to the character, kind and class of station and facilities to
be furnished, and requires an impossibility, in this, to wit, that
said station be constructed immediately."
AIr. A. H. Garland for plaintiff in error. .lr. Jame8
N.oiaught and Xr.H. J: .. ay were with him on the brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

A writ of mandamus to compel a railroad corporation to do
a particular act in constructing its road or buildings, or in
running its trains, can be issued only when there is a specific
legal duty on its part to do that act, and clear proof of a
breach of that duty.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

499

Opinion of the Court.

If, as in Union Paoif&Railroad v. Hall, 91 U. S. 343, the
charter of a railroad corporation expressly requires it to maintain its railroad as a continuous line, it may be compelled to
do so by mandamus. So if the charter requires the corporation to construct its road and to run its cars to a certain point
on tide water, (as was held to be the case in State v. Hlartford
& New Haven Railroad, 29 Conn. 538,) and it has so constructed its road, and used it for years, it may be compelled to
continue to do so. And mandamus will lie to compel a corporation to build a bridge in accordance with an express requirement of statute. New Orleans &o. Railway v. ffississiri, 112 U. S. 12; People v. Boston & Albany Railroad,
70 N. Y. 569.
But if the charter of a railroad corporation simply authorizes
the corporation, without requiring it, to construct and maintain a railroad to a certain point, it has been held that it cannot be compelled by mandamus to complete or to maintain
its road to that point, when it would not be remunerative.
Tork & North 3fidland Railway v. The Queeen, 1 El. & 131.
858; Great Western Railway v. The Queen, 1 El. & B1. 874;
Commonwealth v. Fitehburg Railroad, 12 Gray, 180; State
v. Southern -finnesota Railroad, 18 Minnesota, 40.
The difficulties in the way of issuing a mandamus, to compel the maintenance of a railroad and the running of trains
to a terminus fixed by the charter itself, are much increased
when it is sought to compel the corporation to establish or to
maintain a station and to stop its trains at a particular place
on the line of its road. The location of stations and warehouses for receiving and delivering passengers and freight
involves a comprehensive view of the interests of the public
as well as of the corporation and its stockholders, and a consideration of many circumstances concerning the amount of
population and business at, or near, or within convenient
access to one point or another, which are more appropriate to
be determined by the directors, or, in case of abuse of their
discretion, by the legislature, or by administrative boards
entrusted by the legislature with that duuy, than by the
ordifnary judicial tribunals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant's charter, after authorizing and empowering
it to locate, construct and maintain a continuous railroad "by
the most eligible route, as shall be determined by said company," within limits described in the broadest way, both as to
the terminal points and as to the course and direction of the
road.; and vesting it with "all the powers, privileges and
immunities necessary to carry into effect the purposes of this
act as herein set forth;" enacts that the road "shall be constructed in a substantial and workmanlike manner, with all
the necessary' draws, culverts, bridges, viaducts, crossings,
turnouts, stations and watering places, and all other appurtenances." The words last quoted are but a general expression
of what would be otherwise implied by law, and cover all
structures of every kind needed for the completion and maintenance of the railroad. They cannot be construed as imposing any specific duty, or as controlling the discretion in these
respects of a corporation entrusted with such large discretionary powers upon the more important questions of the course
and the termini of its road. The contrast between these general words and the specific requirements, which follow in the
same section, that the rails shall be manufactured from American iron, and that "a uniform gauge shall be established throughout the entire length of the road" is significant.
To hold that the directors of this corporation, in determining
the number, place and size of its stations and other s~ruptures,
having regard to the public convenience as well as to its own
pecuniary interests, can be controlled by the courts by writ of
mandamus, would be inconsistent with many decisions of high
authority in analogous eases.
The constitution of Colorado of 1876, art. 15, see. 4, provided
that "all railioads shall be public highways, and all railroad
companies shall be common carriers;" and that "every railroad company shall have the right with its road to intersect,
connect with or cross any other railroad." Section 6 of the
same article was as follows: "All individuals, associations and
corporations shall have equal rights*to have persons and property transported over any railroad in this State, and no undue
or unreasonable discrimination shall be made in charges or

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

501

Opinion of the Court.

facilities for transportation of freight or passengers within the
State, and no railroad company, nor any lessee, manager or
employ6 thereof, shall give any preference to individuals,
associations or corporations in furnishing car or motive
power." The General Laws of Colorado of 1877, c. 19, § 111,
authorized every railroad company " to cross, intersect or connect its railways with any other railway;" "t o receive and
convey persons and property on its railway;" and "to erect
and maintain all necessary and convenient buildings and stations, fixtures and machinery, for the convenience, accommodation and use of passengers, freights and business interests, or
which may be necessary for the construction or operation of
said railway." This court held that section 6 of article 15
of the constitution of Colorado was only declaratory of the
common law; that the right secured by section 4 to connect
railroads was confined to their connection as physical structures, and did not imply a connection of business with business;
and that neither the common law, nor the constitution and
statutes of Colorado, compelled one railroad corporation to
establish a station or to stop its cars at its junction with the
railroad of another corporation, although it had established a
union station with the connecting railroad of a third corporation, and had made provisions for the transaction there of a
joint business with that corporation. Chief Justice Waite, in
delivering the opinion, said: "1No statute requires that connected roads shall adopt joint stations, or that one railroad
company shall stop at or make use. of the station of another.
Each company in the State has the legal right to locate its
own stations, and, so far as statutory regulations are concerned,is not required to use any other. A railroad company is prohibited, both by the common law and ,by the constitution of
Colorado, from discriminating unreasonably in favor of or
against another company seeking to do business on its road;
but that does not necessarily imply that it must stop at the
junction of one and interchange business there, because it has
established joint depot accommodations and provided -facilities
for doing a connbcting business with another company at another place. A station may be established -for the special

OCTOBER TERk, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

accommodation of a particular customer; but we have never
heard it claimed that every other customer could, by a suit in

equity, in the absence of a statutory or contract right, compel
the company to establish a like station for his special accommodation at some other place. Such matters are, and always
have been, proper subjects for legislative consideration, unless
prevented by some charter contract; but, as a general rule,
remedies for injustice of that kind can only be obtained from
the legislature. A court of chancery is not, any more than is
a court of law, clothed with legislative power." Atchison,
Toypekc & Santa F Railroadv. Denver & New Orleans Railroad, 110 U. S. 667, 681, 682.
The Court of Appeals of New'York, in a very recent case,
refused to grant a mandamus 'to compel a railroad corporation
to construct and in-aintain a station and warehouse of sufficient
capacity to accommodate- passengers and freight at a village
containing 1200 inhabitants and furnishing to the defendant
at its station therein a large freight and passenger business,
although it was admitted that its present building at that
place was entirely inadequate; that the absence of a suitable
one was a matter of serious damage to large numbers of persons doing business at that station; that the railroad commissioners of the State, after notice to the defendant, had adjudged
and recommended that it should construct a suitable building
there within a certain time; and that the defendant *hadfailed
to take any steps in that direction, not for want of means or
ability, but because its directors had decided that its interests
required it to postpone doing so. -The court, speaking by
Judge Danforth, while recognizing that "a plainer case could
hardly be presented of a deliberate and intentional disregard
of the public interest and the accommodation of the public,"
yet held that it -was powerless to interpose; because the defendant, as a carrier, was under no obligation, at common law,
to provide warehouses for freight offered, or station houses for
passengers waiting transportation, and no such duty was imposed by the statutes authorizing companies to construct and
maintain railroads "for public use in the conveyance of persons and property," and to erect and maintain all necessary

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

503

Opinion of the Court.

and convenient buildings and stations "for the accommodation
and use of their passengers, freight and business;" and because, under the statutes of New York, the proceedings and
determinations of the railroad commissioners amounted to
nothing more than an inquest for information, and had no
effect beyond advice to the railroad company and suggestion
to the legislature, and could not be judicially enforced. The
court said: "As the duty sought to be imposed upon the defendant is not a specific duty prescribed by statute, either in
terms or by reasonable construction, the court cannot, no matter how apparent the necessity, enforce its performance by
mandamus. It cannot compel the erection of a station-house,
nor the enlargement of one." "As to that, the statute imports
an authority only, not a command, to be availed of at the
option of the company in the discretion of its directors, who
are empowered by statute to manage ' its affairs,' among which
must be classed the expenditure of money for station buildings
or other structures for the promotion of the convenience of
the public, having regard also to its own interest. With the
exercise of that discretion the legislature only can interfere.
No doubt, as the respondent urges, the court may by mandamus also act in certain cases affecting corporate matters, but
only where the duty concerned is specific and \plainly imposed
upon the corporation." "Such is not the case before us. The
grievance complained of is an obvious one, but the burden of
removing it can be imposed upon the defendant only by legislation. The legislature created the corporation upon the theory that its functions should be exercised for the public benefit.
It may add other regulations to those now binding it, but the
court can interfere only to enforce Q,duty declared by law.
The one presented in this case is not of that character. Nor
can it by any fair or reasonable construction be implied."
Peo2p1e v. New York, Lake Erie & TWestern Railroad, 104:
N. Y: 58, 66, 67.
In Commonwealth v. Eastern Railroad, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in holding that a railroad corporation, whose charter was subject to amendment, alteration or
repeal-at the pleasure'of the legislature, might be required by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

a subsequent statute to construct a station and stop its trains
at a particular place on its road, said: "If the directors of a
railroad were to find it for the interest of the stockholders to
refuse to carry any freight or passengers except such as they
might take at one end of the road and carry entirely through
to the other end, and were to refuse to establish any way stations, or do any-way business for that reason, though the road
passed for a long. distance through a populous part of the
State, this would be a case manifestly requiring and authorizing legislative interference under the clause in question. And
on the same ground, if they refuse to provide reasonable accommodation for the people of any smaller locality, the legislature -may reasonably alter and modify the discretionary power
which the charter confers upon the directors, so as to make
the duty to provide the accommodation absolute. Whether a
reasonable ground for interference is presented in any particular case is for the legislature to determine; and their determinatfon on this p6int must be conclusive." 103 Mass. 254,
258.
Upon the same principle, the Supreme Judicial Court of
Maine compelled a railroad corporation to build a station at a
specified place on its road in accordance with an order of railroad commissioners, expressly empowered by the statutes of
the State to make such an order, and to apply to the court to
enforce it. Maine Stat. 1871, c. 204; Railroad Commissionera
v. .Portland& Oxford Railroad,63 Maine, 70.
In Southeastern Railway-v. Railway Commissioners, a railway, company was held by Lord Chancellor Sel-borne, Lord
Chief Justice Coleridge and Lord Justice Brett, in the English
Court of Appeal, to be under no obligation to establish stations
at any particular place or'places unless it thought fit to do so;
and was held bound to afford improved facilities for receiving,
forwarding and delivering passengers and goods at a station
once established and used for the purpose of traffic, only so far
as it had been ordered to afford them by the railway commissioners within powers expressly conferred by act of parliament.
6 Q. B. D. 586, 592.
The decision in State v. Republican" Valley Railroad, 17

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

505

Opinion 9f the Court.

Nebraska, 647, cited in the opinion below, proceeded upon the
theory, (inconsistent with the judgments of this court in Atcison &c. Railroadv. Denver & New Orleans Railroadiand of
the Court of Appeals of New York in People v. New York
&c. Railroad,above stated,) that, independently of any statute
requirements, a railroad corporation might be compelled to
establish a station and to stop its trains at any point on the
line of its road at which the court thought it reasonable that
it should.
The opinions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, though going
farther than those of most other courts, in favor of issuing
writs of*mandamus to raifroad corporations, afford no countenance for granting the writ in the case at bar. In People v.
Louisville & Iaekville Railroad,120 Illinois, 48, a mandamus
was issued to compel the company to run all its passenger
trains to a station which it had once located and used in a
town made a terminal point by the charter and which was a
county seat; because the corporation had no legal power to
change its location, and was required by statute to stop all
trains at a county seat. In People v. Chicago & Alton Bailroad, 130 Illinois, 175, in which a mandamus was granted ,to
compel a railroad company to establish and maintain a station
in a certain town, the petition for the writ alleged specific
facts making out a clear and strong case of public necesity,
and also alleged that the accommodation of the public living
in or near the town required, and long had required, the establishment of a station on the line of the road within the
town; and the decision was that a demurrer to the petition
admitted both the specific and the general allegations, and
must therefore be overruled. The court, at pages 182, 183, of
that case, and again in -lobile & Ohio Railroadv. People, 132
Illinois, 559, 571, said: "It is undoubtedly the rule that railway companies, in the absence of statutory provisions limiting
and restricting their powers, are vested with a very broad discretion in the matter of locating, constructing and operating
their railways, and of locating and maintaining their freight
and passenger stations. This discretion, however, is not absolute, but is subject to the condition that it must be exercised

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in good faith, and with a due regard to the necessities and
convenience of the public." But in the latter case the court
also said: "The company cannot be compelled, on the one
hand, to locate stations at points where the cost of maintaining them will exceed the profits resulting therefrom to the
company, nor allowed, on the other hand, to locate them so
far apart as to practically deny to communities on the line of
the road reasonable access to its use. The duty to maintain
or continue stations must manifestly rest upon the same principle, and a company cannot, therefore, be compelled to maintain or continue a station at a point when the welfare of the
company and the community in general requires that it should
be changed to some other point." page 570. "The rule has
been so often announced by this court that it is unnecessary
o cite the cases, that a mandamus will never be awarded
inless the right to have the thing done which is sought is
learly established." page 572. And upon these reasons the
writ was refused.
Section 691i of the Code of Washington Territory of 1881,
following the common law, defines the cases, in which a writ
of mandamus may issue, as "to any inferior court, corporation,
board, officer or person to compel the performance of an act
which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an
office, trust or station." By the same code, in mandamus, as
in civil actions, issues of fact may be tried by a jury; the verdict may be either general or special, and, if special, may be
in answer to questions submitted by the court; and material
allegations of the plaintiff not denied by the answer, as well
as material allegations of new matter in the answer not denied
in the replication, are deemed admitted, but a qualified admission cannot be availed of by the other party, except as qualified. §§ 103, 240, 242, 694, 696; Breemer v. Burgess, 2 Wash.
Ter. 290, 296; Gildersleeve v. Jiandon, 73 N. Y. 609. The
replication filed in this case, not being copied in the record
sent up, may be assumed, as most favorable to the defendant
in error, to have denied all allegations of new matter in the
answer.
The leading facts of this case, then, as. appearing by the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

507

Opinion of the Court.
special verdict, taken in connection with the admissions, express or implied, in the answer, are as follows: The defendant
at one time stopped its trains at Yakima City, but never built

a station there, and, after completing its road. four miles further to North Yakima, established a freight and passenger
station at North Yakima, which was a town laid out by the

defendant on its own unimproved land, and thereupon ceased
to stop its trains at Yakima City. In consequence, apparently,
of this, Yakima City, which at the time of filing the petition
for mandamus was the imost important town, in population and
business, in the county, rapidly dwindled, and most of its inhabitants removed to North Yakima, which at the time of the

verdict had become the largest and most important town in
the county. No other specific facts as to North Yakima are
admitted by the parties or found by the jury. The defendant
could build a station at Yakima City, but the cost of building
one would be $8000, and the expense of maintaining it $150 a
month, and the earnings of the whole of this division of the
defendant's road are insufficient to pay its running expenses.
The special verdict includes an express finding (which appears
to us to be of pure matter of fact, inferred from various circumstances, some of which are evidently not specifically found,
and to be in no sense, as assumed by the court below, a conclusion of law) that there are other stations for receiving
freight and passengers between North Yakima and Pasco
Junction, which furnish sufficient facilitibs for the country
south of North Yakima, which must include Yakima City; as
well as an equally explicit finding (which appears to have been
wholly disregarded by the court below) that the passenger and
freight traffic of the people living in the surrounding country,
considering them as a community, would be better accommodated by a station it North Yakima than by one at Yakima
City. It also appears of record that, after the verdict and
before the District Court awarded the writ of mandamus, the
county seat was removed, pursuant to an act of the territorial
legislature, from Yakima City to North Yakima.
The mandamus prayed for being founded on a suggestion
that the defendant had distinctly manifested an intention not

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to perform a definite duty to the public, required of it by law,
the petition was rightly presented in the name of the Territory
at the relation of its prosecuting attorney; .4ttorney General
v. Boston, 123 Mass. 460, 479; Code of Washington Territory,
§ 2171; and no demand upon the defendant was necessary
before applying for the writ. Commonwealth v. Allegheny
Commissioners, 37 Penn. St. 237; State v. Board of Finance,
9 Vroom, 259; .3lottu v. Primrose,2-3 Maryland, 482; Attorney General v. Boston, 123 Mass. 460, 477.
But upon the facts found and admitted no sufficient case is
made for a writ of mandamus, even if the court coultl under
any circumstances issue such a writ for the purpose set forth in
the petition. The fraudulent and wrongful intent, charged
against the defendant in the petition, is denied in the answer,
and is not found by the jury. The fact that the town of
North Yakima was laid out by the defendant on its own land
cannot impair the right of the inhabitants of that town, whenever they settled there, or of the people of the surrounding
country, to reasonable access to the railroad. :No ground is
shown for requiring the defendant to maintain stations both
at Yakima City and at North Yakima; there are other stations furnishing sifficient facilities for the whole country from
North Yakima southward to Pasco Junction; the earnings of
the division of the defendant's road between those points are
insufficient to pay its running expenses; and to order the station to be removed from North Yakima to Yakima City would
inconvenience a much larger part of the public than it would
benefit, even at the time of the return, of the verdict. And,
before judgment in the District Court, the legislature, recognizing that the public interest required it, made North Yakima
the county seat. The question whether a mandamus should
issue to protect the interest of the public does not depend upon
a state of facts existing when the petition was filed, if that
state of facts has ceased to exist when the final judgment is
rendered. In this regard, as observed by Lord Chief Justice
Jervis in Great Western Railway v. The Queen, already cited,
"there is a very great difference between an indictment for
not fulfilling a public duty, and a mandamus commanding the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. DUSTIN.

509

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Harlan, JJ.

party liable to fulfil it."

1 IEl. & B1. 8M8.

The court will

never order a railroad station to be built or maintained contrary to the public interest. Texas c&.Pacfir Railway v. .Marshall, 136 U. S. 393.
For the reasons above stated, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Territory must be reversed, and the case remanded,
with directions to enter judgment for the defendant dismissing
the petition; and Washington having been admitted into the"
Union as a State by act of Congress passed while this writ of
error was pending in this court, the mandate will be directed,
as the nature of the case requires, to the Supreme Court of
the State of Washington. Act of February 22, 1889, c. 180,
§§ 22, 23; 25 Stat. 682, 683.
Judgmont reversed, and mandate accordingly.
IR. JUSTICE BREWER, with whom concurred Mm. JusTICE
FIELD and M. JUsTICE HATxi, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment in this case.
The question is not whether a railroad company can be compelled to build a depot and stop its trains at any place where
are gathered two or three homes and families; nor whether
courts can determine at what locality in a city or "town the
depot shall be placed; nor even whether, when there are two
villages contiguous, the courts may determine at which of the
two the company shall make its stopping place, or compel
depots at both. But the case here presented is this : A railroad
company builds its road into a county, finds the county seat
already established and inhabited, the largest and most prosperous town in the county, and along the line of its road for
many miles. It builds its road to and through that county seat;
there is no reason of a public nature why that should not be
made a stopping place. For some reason, undisclosed, perhaps
because that county seat will not pay to the managers a bonus,
or because they seek a real estate speculation in establishing a
new town, it locates its depot on the site of a "paper" town
the title to which it holds, contiguous to this established
county seat; stops only at the one, and refuses to stop at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

other; and thus, for private interests, builds up a new place
at the expense of the old; and for this subservience of its
public duty to its private interests, we are told that there is
in the courts no redress; and this because Congress in chartering this Northern Pacific road did not name Yakima City as
a stopping place, and has not in terms delegated to the courts
the power to interfere in the matter.
A railroad corporation has a public duty to perform, as well
as a private interest to subserve, and I never before believed
that the courts would permit it to abandon the one to promote
the other. Nowhere in its charter is in terms expressed the
duty of carrying passengers and freight. Are the courts impotent to compel the performance of this duty? Is the duty
of carrying passengers and freight any more of a public duty
than that of placing its depots and stopping its trains at those
places which will best accommodate the public? If the State
of Indiana incorporates a railroad to build a road from New
Albany through Indianapolis to South Bend, and that road is
built, can it be that the courts may compel the road to receive
passengers and transport freight, but in the absence of a
specific direction from the legislature, are powerless to compel
the road to stop its trains and build a depot at Indianapolis?
I do not so belittle the power or duty of the courts.

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES NAVIGATION
AND IAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 987. Argued November 18,19, 1891. -Decded

January 11, 1892.

The title of the Des Moines Navigation and Railway Company to lands
granted to the Territory of Iowa for the purpose of aiding in the improvement of the navigation of the Des Moines River by the act of
August 8, 1846, 9 Stat. 77, c. 103, and to the State of Iowa for a like purpose by the joint resolution of March 2, 1861, 12 Stat. 251, and by the

