MINflE v. 'GRAN1~D TRUNKE R'Y CO.
Statement of the Case.

MAINE v. GRAND TRUNhlK RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR- TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MAINE.
No. 29. Submitted April 14,1891.-Decided December 14, 1891.

A state statute which requires every corporation, person or association
operating a railroad within the State to pay an annual tax for the privilege of exercising its franchises therein, to be determined by the amount
of its gross transportation receipts, and further provides that, when
applied to a railroad lying partly within and partly without the State, or
to one operated as a part of a line or system extending beyond the Statd,
the tax shall be equal to the proportion of the gross receipts in the State,
to be ascertained in the manner provided by the statute, does not conflict
with the Constitution of the United States; and the tax thereby imposed
upon a foreign corporation, operating' a line of railway, partly within
and partly without the State, is one wiihin the power of the State to levy.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
The defendant is a corporation created under the laws of
Canada, and has its principal place of business at Montreal, in
that Province. Its railroad in Maine was constructed by the
Atlantic and St. Lawrence Railroad Company, under a charter from that State, which authorized it to construct and operate a railroad from the city of Portland to the boundary line
of the State; and, with the permission of New- Hampshire and
Vermont, it constructed a railroad from that city to Island
Pond in Vermont, a distance of 1491 miles, of which 824 miles
arewithin the State of Maine. In March, 1853, that company
leased its rights and privileges to the defendant, The Grand
Trunk Railway Company, which had obtained legislative permission to take the same; and since then it has. operated that
road and used its franchises.
A statute of M aine,' passed in 1881, enacted that every
I AN

ACT RELATING TO THE TAXATION OF RAILROADS.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in the Legislature,
assembled, asfollows:
SEcT. 1. The buildings of every railroad corporation or association
whether within or without the located right of way, and its lands and

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

corporation, person or association, operating a railroad in the
State, should pay to the state treasurer, for the use of the
fixtures outside of its located right of way, shall be subject to taxation by
the several cities 9nd towns in which such buildings, land and fixtures may
be situated, as other property is taxed therein.
SEOT. 2. Every corporation, person or association, operating any railroad in this State, shall pay to the state treasurer, for the use of the State,
an annual excise tax, for the privilege of exercising its franchises in this
State, which, with the t~x provided for in section one, shall be in lieu of
All taxes upon such railroad, its property and stock. There shall be apportioned and paid by the State from the taxes received ufider the provisions
of this act, to the several cities and towns, in which, on the first day of
April in each year, is held railroad stock hereby exempted from other taxation, an amount equal to one per centum on the value of such stock on that day,
as determined by the governor and council; provided, however, that the total
amount thus apportioned on account of any railroad shall not exceed the
sum received by the State as tax on account of such railroad.
SECT. 3. The amount of such tax shall be ascertained as follows: The
amount of the gross transportation receipts as returned to the railroad
commissioners for the year efiding on the thirtieth day of September next
preceding the levying of such tax, shall be divided by the number of miles
of railroad operated to ascertain the average gross receipts per mile; when
such average receipts per mile shall not exceed twenty-two hundred and
fifty dollars, the.tax shall be equal to one-quarter of one per centum of the
gross transportation receipts; when the average receipts per mile exceed
twenty-two hundred and fifty dollars and do not exceed three thousand dollars, the tax shall be equal to one-half of one per centum of the gross
receipts; and so on -increasing the rate of the tax one-quarter of one per
centum for each additibnal seven hundred and fifty dollars of average gross
receipts per mile or fractional part thereof, provided, the rate shall in no
event exceed three and one-quarter per centum. When a railroad lies partly
within and partly without this State, or is operated as a part of a line or
system extending beyond this State, the tax shall be equal to the same
proportion of the gross receipts in this State, as herein provided, and its
amount determined as folrows: the gross transportation receipts of such
railroad, line or system, as the case may be, over its whole extent, within
and without the State, shall be divided by the total number of miles operated
to obtain the average gross receipts per mile, and the gross receipts in this
State shall be taken to be the average gross receipts per mile, multiplied by
the number of miles operated within this State.
SECT.4. The governor and council, on or before the first day of 'April in
each year, shall determine the amount of such tax, and report the same to
the state treasurer, who.shall forthwith give notice thereof to the corporation, person or association, upon which the tax is levied.
SECT.5. Said tax shall be due and payable, one-half thereof on the first

.MAINE

v. GRAXD TRUNK R'Y CO.
Statement of the Case.

State, "an annual excise tax for the privilege of exercising its
franchises" in the State, and it provided that the amount of
such tax should be ascertained as follows: "The amount of the
gross transportation receipts, as returned to the railroad commissioners for the year ending on the thirtieth of September
next preceding the levying of such tax, shall be divided by the
number of miles of railroad operated, to ascertain the average
gross receipts per mile; when such average receipts per mile
shall not exceed twenty-two hundred and fifty dollars,. the tax
day of July next after the levy is made, and the other half on the first day
of October following. If any party fails to pay the tax, as herein'required,
the state treasurer may proceed to collect the same, with interest, at the
rate of the ten per cent per annum, by an action of debt, in the name of
the State. Said tax shall be a lien on the railroad operated, and take precedence of all other liens and incumbrances.
SECT. 6. Any corporation, person' or association aggrieved by the action
of the governor and council in determining'the tax, through error or mistake
in calculating the same, may apply for an abatement of any such excessive
tax within the year for which such tax is assessed, and if, upon rehearing
and redxamination, the tax appears to be excessive through such error or
mistake, the governor and council may thereupon abate such excess, and the
amount so abated shall be deducted from any tax due, and unpaid, upon the
railroad upon which the excessive tax was assessed; or, if there is no such
unpaid tax, the governor shall draw his warrant for the abatement, to be paid
from any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.
SEcT. 7. If the returns now required by law, in relation to railroads, shall
be found insufficient to furnish the basis upon which the tax is to be levied,
it shall be the duty of the railroad commissioners to require such additional
facts in the returns as may be found necessary; and, until such returns
shall be required, or, in default of such returns when required, the governor
and coundil shall act upon the best information they may be able to obtain. The railroad commissioners shall have access to the books of railroad
companies, to ascertain if the -required returns are correctly made; and any
railroad corporation, association or person operating any railroad in this
Siate, which shall refuse or neglect to make the returns required by law, or
to exhibit to the railroad commissioners their books for the purposes aforesaid, or shall make returns which the president, clerk, treasurer or other
person certifying to such returns knows to be false, shall forfeit a sum not
less than one thousand dollars, nor more than ten thousand dollars, to be
recovered by indictment, or by an action of debt in any county into which
the railroad operated may extend.
SECT. 8. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act, are hereby
repealed, except as to all taxes heretofore assessed, and this act takes effect
when approved. Approved March 17, 1881. Laws Maine, 1881, c. 91,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the .Case.

shall be equal to one-quarter of one per centum of the gross
transportation receipts; when the average receipts per mile
exceed twenty-two hundred and fifty dollars, and do not exceed
three thousand .dollars, the tax shall be equal to one-half of
one per centum of the gross receipts; and soon, increasing the
rate of the tax one-quarter of one per centum for each additional seven hundred and fifty dollars of average gross receipts per mile or fractional part thereof, provided, the rate
shall in no event exceed three and one-quarter per centum.
When a railroad lies partly within and partly without this
State, or is operated as a part of aline or system extending
beyond this State, the tax shall be equal to the same proportion of the gross receipts in this State, as herein provided, and
its amount determined as follows: the gross transportation
receipts of such railroad, line or system, as the case may be,
over its whole extent, within and without the State, shall be
divided by the total number of miles operated, to obtain the
average gross receipts per mile, and the gross receipts in this
State shall be taken to be the average gross receipts per mile,
multiplied by the number of miles operated within this State."
The act also provided that the governor and council, on or
before the 1st of April in each year, should determine the
amount of such tax and report the same to the state treasurer,
who should forthvith give notice thereof to the corporation,
person or association upon which the tax was levied; and that
such tax should be due and payable, one-half on the 1st of
July next after the levy and the other half on the 1st of October following; and it declared that if any party should fail to
pay the tax as required, the state treasurer might proceed to
collect the same, with interest at the rate of ten per centum
per annum, by an action of debt in the name of the State.
The defendant, The Grand Trunk Railway Company, made
no returns as a corporation, but it furnished the data and caused
the Atlantic and St. Lawrence Railroad Company to make a
return of the gross transportation receipts over its road, 149j
miles in length, including the 82 miles in Maine, for the years
1881 and 1882, and upon this return the governor and council,
pursuant to the statute, ascertained the proportion of the gross

MAINE v. GRAND TRUNK R'Y CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

receipts in the State, and assessed the tax in controversy accordingly. The tax thus assessed for 1881 was $9569.66, and for
1882, $12,095.56, and, to recover these amounts as debts to the
State, the present action was brought in the Supreme Judicial
Court of the State of Maine, and, on application of the defendant, it was transferred to the Circuit Court of the United
States. The defendant pleaded nil debet, accompanied with a
statement of special matters of defence. By stipulation of the
parties, the case was tried by the court, which held that the
imposition of the taxes in question wa§ a regulation of interstate and foreign commerce, in conflict with the exclusive
powers of Congress under the Constitution of the United States,
and was theref6re invalid. It accordingly gave judgment for
the defendant, that the plaintiff take nothing by its writ, and
that the defendant recover its costs. From that judgment the
case is brought to this court on writ of error.
.A'. Charles.E ittlfield,Attorney General of the State of
Maine, for plaintiff in error.
The question may be succinctly stated thus: Is a tax upon
the gross transportation receipts in the State of Maine of a.
railroad lying partly within and partly without the State, ascertained by multiplying its average gross receipts per mile
for.the whole length by the number of miles within this State,
in conflict with Art. I, See. 8, Part 3, of the Constitution of
the United States I Itsuch a tax a regulation of or an interference with interstate and foreign commerce?, We contend
that it is not.
We do not deem it profitable to examine all the cases where
this question has been before the court in its various phases.
We refer only to those upon which we rely as being closely in
point, sustaining our contention, and to their present status in
this court as authority. The cases of State Tax on Railway
Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284, and the Delaware Railroad
Tax,18 Wall. 206, are, we think, decisive in support of our
proposition, if they are still- binding authority upon this court.
A chronological examination of these cases will give a clear
idea of the law as it is held to-day.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff- in Error.

The case of the State -Taxon Railway Gross Receipts was
one where the State of Pennsylvania assessed a tax upon the
Reading Railroad Company, a corporation created by the
State of Pennsylvania, under a statute that required railroad
companies incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania to
"pay to the Commonwealth a tax of three-fourths of one percentum upon the gross receipts of said company," and as a
basis for said tax the company was required to transmit to the
auditor general "a statement, under oath or affirmation, of the
amount of the gross receipts of the said company during the
preceding six months." Here is to be noticed a very important distinction between the Pennsylvania statute and the
Maine statute involved at bar. The Pennsylvania statute does
not confine the "gross receipts" to those received within the
State; the Maine statute does. The Pennsylvania statute in
terms -no exception appearing in the act and in its practical
application - applied to all receipts from transportation as
well without the State as within it. It covered receipts from
freight exported without the State. It could and did
operate extra territorially. The Maine statute does not and
*cannot,and certainly the Maine statute is less open to the
imputation that it is a regulation of interstate commerce
than the Pennsylvania statute. In that case the court held
that the Pennsylvania statute was valid, (1) because it was 'f a
tax upon the fruits of such transportation after they had become intermingled with the general property of the carrier;
and (2) upon the ground that it was a tax upon the value .ofthe franchise.
We presume that the cases of Fargo v. .Michigan, 121 U. S.
230, -And PhiladelphiaSteamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S.
326, will be relied upon as overruling the case 6f State Tax upo
Railway Gross Reeeipts, but before discussing those cases it is
important to call attention to the respect paid by this court to
that case as authority up to the time of the decisions in those
two cases. See Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Wall. 479; rie Railway Co. v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall. 492; Mlurray v. Charleston) 96 U. S.432; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; Hall v.
DeOuir, 95 U. S. 485; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69.

MAINE v. GRAND TRUNK R'Y CO.

1223

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In a dissenting opinion in the case of Pacific Railway Co. v.
1l7inoi8, 118 U. S. 557, 593, Mr. Justice Bradley, with whom the
Chief Justice and Mr. Justice'Gray concurred, treats the case
of State Tax o7n Railway Gross Receipts, as still authority and
binding upon the court, and says upon that point: "We haye
omitted to cite a number of cases corroborating the views we
have expressed. The case of State Tax on Railway Gross Beceipts, 15 Wall. 284, is weighted with arguments and considerations in this direction. We would also refer to the cases of
Osborne v. -Mobile, 16 Wall. 479; Railroad Co. v. Faller, 17
Wall. 560; Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307, 334,
335; " thus clearly assuming that the first case referred to
was still binding as authority in the United States Suprenfe
Court, and no intimation is made in the dissenting opinion that
the doctrine asserted in that case had been in any way at that
time questioned, disputed or denied.
Fargo v. Michigan, so. far from overruling State Tax on
Railway Gross Receipts, indirectly affirms it. It makes the
following distinctions between the two cases: First, the corporation which was the subject of that taxation.was a Pennsylvania corporation, having the situs of its business within the
State which created it and endowed it with its franchises.
Upon these franchises thus conferred by the State it was
asserted the State had a right to levy a tax. Second, this
tax was levied upon money in the treasury of the corporation, upon money within the limits of the State, which had
passed beyond the stage of compensation for freight and had
become like any other property or money liable to taxation
by the State. The case before us has neither of these qualities. The corporation upon, which this tax is levied is not a
-corporation of the- State of Michigan, and has never been
organized or acknowledged as a corporation of that State.
The money which it received from freight carried within the
State probably never was within the State, being paid to the
company either at the beginning or the end of its route, and
certainly at the time the tax was levied it was neither money
nor property of the corporation within the State of Michigan.
Neither of these grounds of distinction obtain in the case at bar.

OCTOBER TERME, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

As to Philadelphia & Southern Steamship Co. v. Penn8ylvania, 122 U. S. 326, inasmuch as the court took pains to
distinguish the case then under consideration from the
second ground relied upon in State Tax on Railway Grosw
Receipts, it i's a fair presumption, at least, that the court were
not then prepared to declare that ground unsound. We are
hot aware that the case of State Tax on_Railway Gross,Receip is questioned or denied in any other decision in this court.
The case of the DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, is, we
think, strongly in point in our favor. That was a case where
the tax, though not assessed upon the gross railway receipts, was
assessed upon net earnings or income received from all sources
during the preceding year, and with the exception of this distinction between the particular sum upon which the tax was
assessed, which we submit is in no sense material to the question under discussion, the act of the legislature by virtue of
which the tax was assessed was strikingly parallel to that at,
bar. On the hearing in this court the state officers of Delaware withdrew their appeal, and the inquiry of the court was
thus limited to the validity of the act so far as it imposed the
taxes specified in its first and fourth sections. The tax imposed by the first section is the tax that is parallel to the tax
at bar. Among other obections it was contended that the
act conflicted with the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States, and upon this point the court
in the opinion say: "The tax imposed by the act in question
affects commerce among the States and impedes the transit of
persons and property from one State to another, just in the
same way, and in no other, that taxation of any kind necessarily increases the expenses attending upon the use or possession of the thing taxed. That taxation produces -thisresult of
itself constitutes no objection to its constitutionality."
See
als6 Baltimore & Ohio-Railroad-Co. v. -Maryland,21 Wall.
456.
For these reasons we must submit that when the cas6s of
Fargo v. 3fichigan and the Philadelphia Steamship Co. v.
Pennsylvania are confined to the precise facts before the
court in each case, neither of them can be held to be in .point

MAINE v. GRAND TRUNK RY C0.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

against our contention. While no one can examine the
opinions of this court during the last fifteen years upon this
question of interstate commerce without becoming impressed
with the obvious tendencies to enlarge the doctrine, and limit
the power of the State to regulate or affect in any way commerce or its instruments, we think that the fact that in the
two most recent cases in the United States that have been
announced by the court, that of .XeCall v. Calfifornia, 136
U. S. 104, and Norfolk & Western Railroad v. Pennsylvania,
136 U. S. 114, where the court passes adversely, under this
clause in the Constitution, upon statutes imposing license
taxes, three of the justices dissented in each case, may indicate that the doctrine applicable to these cases has been extended as far as a fair construction of the Constitution 'Will
authorize the court to go. It seems to us that the limit has
been reached in this case, and that, unless the court are prepared to still further extend it, the cases upon which we rely
are unshaken.
Now that Congress, by its recent interstate commerce legislation, is regulating many of these matters, and giving a legislative definition of the proper limits of the Federal and state
Powers, there would not seem to be any occasion for any extension of these Federal powers by construction on the part of the
court.
It is further submitted that the method prbvided in the
statute of determining the value of the franchise upon which
this tax should be assessed is one that is eminently fair and
just to the corporation, though it may be argued that it is in
fact, by its method of application, a mere tax upon the use of
the franchise. In the language of the court in State Tax on
Railwhzy Gross Receipts the tax at bar "imposes no greater
burden upon any freight or business from which the receipts
come than would an equal tax laid upon a direct valuation of
the franchise."
XrA.A. A. Strout for defendant in error.
Cases recently decided by this court establish beyond question that the act of the legislature of Maine, and the taxes
VOL. CXLII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

imposed thereunder, are invalid, because they are in conflict
with the exclusive powers of Congress, under the Constitution
of the United States, for the regulation of commerce with foreign nation, and among the several States. Constitution, Art.
1, Sect. 8, Clause 3; .M Call v. California,136 U. S. 104, and
cases cited; Lyng v. State of .Aichigan, 135 U. S. 161, 166;
Pensacola Telegraovh Co. v. We8tern Union TelegraP1A Co., 96
U. S. 1; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 102; .Yorfol & Wetern Railroadv. Penn&ylvania, 136 U. S. 114.
The only business of the defendant in error is interstate and
foreign commerce, and upon the privilege of carrying on this
business the tax is levied.
It cannot be said that this is a tax upon the receipts, as
property in the treasury, of a domestic corporation. The
defendant in error is a foreign corporation, and the case finds
that its principal place of business is at Montreal. The receipts went to the home office. The statute does not base the
tax upon that ground.
The questions involved in the present contention are conkned to the following inquiries: (1) Was the business of the
defendant in error commerce between the States or with a
foeign country? (2) Is this tax placed upon it "for the privilege of exercising its franchises within the State," a burden
upon, or otherwise a regulation of such commerce?
The rule to beapplied depends.upon the facts presented by
the record. Repeated and well-considered cases have left no
doubt as to what, the law is. If the record presents a case
where the business in relation to which the tax is levied is
interstate or foreign commerce, and the tax placed upon it, by
the burden it imposes, or. otherwise, operates as a regulation
of such commerce, then the law which authorizes such tax is
unconstitutional and void, however ingenious the phraseology
which it employs in its illegal usurpation of powers conferred
by the Constitution exclusively upon Congress.
In Zyng v. fichigan, 135 U. S. 161, 166, the court said:
"We have repeatedly held that no State has the right to lay
a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether by way of
duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of that com-

MAIE

. GRAND TRTNK R'Y

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

merce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or
on the occupation or business of carrying it on, for the 'reason
that such taxation is a burden on that commerce, and amounts
to a regulation of it which belongs solely to Congress."
In this case there is no question of police regulation and no
necessity to invoke the maxim of "&za lus populi suprema lea'."
Fargov. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Philadelphia & 8o7thern
Bteam8hip Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; McCall v.
California,136 U. S. 104:; County of 31obile v. Kimball, 102
U. S. 691, 702; Pickard v. .Pullman Southern Car Co., 117
U. S. 3.
Counsel-for the plaintiff in error relies upon the case of State
Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 281, to sustain the
validity of the law by virtue of which the taxes under consideration were imposed. It is unnecessary to spend time in
replying to his elaborate argument, in which he attempts to.
show that the case has not been overruled. This record presents no state of facts such as would bring it within the scope
and authority of that decision, even if it was, unquestioned
law; but whether it l as been entirely overruled or not, it has
been so questioned that it is no longer a conclusive authority,
even in a similar case, and to-day would not, in its present
form, find its way into the reports of this court.
YM.

JusmoE FrLD, after ,stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The tax, for the collection of which this action is brought,
is an excise tax upon the defendant corporation for- the privilege of exercising its franchises within the State of Maine. It
-is so declared in the statute which imposes it; and that. a tax
of this character is within the power of the State to levy there
can be no question. The deiignation does not always indicate
merely an inland imposition or duiy on the consumption of
commodities, but often denotes an impost for a license to pursue certain callings, or to deal in special commodities, or to
exercise particular franchises. It is used more frequently, in
this country, in the latter seiise than in any other. The privi-

OCTOBER TEPM?

1891.

Opinion of the Court;.

lege of exercising the franchises of a corporation within a
State is generally one of value, and often of great value, and
the subject of earnest contention. It is natural, therefore, that
the corporation should be miade to bear some proportion of
the burdens of government. As the granting of the privilege
rests entirely in the discretion of the State, whether the corporation be of domestic or foreign origin, it may be conferred
upon such conditions, pecuniary or otherwise, as the State in
its judgment may deem most conducive to its interests or
policy. It may require the payment into its treasury, each
year, of a specific sum, or may apportion the amount exacted
according to the value of the business permitted, as disclosed
by its gains or receipts of the present or past years. The character of the tax, or its validity, is not determined by the mode
adopted in fixing its amount for any specific period, or the
times of' its payment. The whole field of inquiry into the
extent of revenue from sources at the command of the corporation, is open to the consideration of the State in determining
what may be justly exacted for the privilege. The rule, of
apportioning the charge to the receipts of the business would
seem to be eminently -reasonable, and likely to produce the
most satisfactory results, both to .the State and the corporation taxed.
The court below held that the imposition of the taxes was a
regulation of commerce, interstate and foreign, and therefore
in conflict with the exclusive power of Congress in that respect;
and on that ground alone it ordered judgment for the defendant. This ruling was founded upon the assumption that a reference by the statute to the transportation receipts and to a
certain percentage of the same in determining the amount of
the excise tax, was in effect the imposition of the tax upon
such receipts, and therefore an interference vfith interstate and
foreign commerce. But a resort to those receipts was simply
to ascertain the value of the business done by the corporation,
and thus obtain a guide to a reasonable conclusion as to the
amount of the excise tax which should be levied; and we are
unakle to perceive in that resort any interference with transportation, domestic or foreign, over the road of the railroad

MAINE v. GRAND TRUNK R'Y, CO.
Opinion of the Court.

company, or any regulation of commerce which consists in
such transportation. If the amount ascertained were specifically imposed as the tax, no objection to its validity Would be
pretended. And if the inquiry of the State as to the value of
the privilege were limited to receipts of certain past years
instead of the year in which the tax is collected, it is conceded
that the validity of the tax would not be affected; and if not,
we do not see how a reference to the results of any other year
could affect its character. There is no levy-by the statute on
the receipts themselves, either in form or fact; they constitute,
"as said above, simply the means of ascertaining the value of
the privilege conferred.
This conclusion is sustained by thedecision in Home lnurance Co.v. New Yorkc, 134 U. S. 594. The Home Insurance,
Company was a corporation created under the laws of lNew
York, and a portion of its capital stock was invested in bonds
of the United States. By an act of the legislature of that
State, of 1881, it was declared that every corporation, joint
stock company or association, then or thereafter incorporated
under any law of the State, or of any other State or country,
and doing business in the State, with certain designated exceptions not material to the question involved, should be subject'
to a tax upon its corporate franchise or business, to be computed
as follows: if its dividend or dividends made or declared during the year ending the first day of November, amounted to
,six per centum or more upon the par value of its capital stock,
then the tax was to be at the rate of one-quarter mill upon the
capital stock for each one per cent of the dividends. A less
rate was provided where there was no dividend or a dividend less
than six per cent. The purpose of the act was to fix the
amount of the tax each year upon the franchise or business of
the corporation by the extent of dividends upon its capital
stock, or, where there were no dividends, according to the
actual value of the capital stock during the year. The tax
payable by the compauy, estimated according to its dividends,
under that law, aggregated seven thousand five hundred dollars. The company resisted its payment, asserting that the
tax wasi in fact, levied upon the capital stock of the company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

.230

Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Lamar, Brown, JJ.

contending that there should be deducted from it a sum bearing the same ratio thereto that the amount invested in bonds
of the United States bore to its capital stock, and that the law
requiring a tax, without such reduction, was unconstitutional
and void. It was held that the tax was not upon the capital
stock of the company nor upon any bonds of the United States
composing a part of that stock, but upon the corporate franchise or business of the company, and that reference was only
made to its capital stock Ind dividends for the purpose of determining the amount of the tax to be exacted each- year. And
the court said: "'The validity of the tax can in no way be
dependent upon the mode which the State may deem fit to
adopt in fixing the amount for any year which it will exadt for
the franchise. No constitutional objection lies in the. way of a
legislative body prescribing any mode of measurement to determine the amount it will charge for the privileges it bestows."
The case of Philadelphia and Southern Steamship Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, in no way conflicts with this
decision. That -was the case of a tax, in terms, upon the gross
receipts of a steamship company, incorporated under the laws
of the State, derived from the transportation of persons and
property between different States and to and from foreign
'countries. Such tax was held, without any dissent, to be a
regulation of interstate and foreign commerce, and, therefore,
invalid. We do not question the correctness of that decision,
nor do the views we hold in this case in any way qualify or
impair it.
It follows from what we have saipi, that the judgment of tbe
court below must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to enter
judgment in favor of the Statefor the amount of the taxes
demanded; and it is 80 ordered.

MR. JusTrc-E BRADL-EY, with whom concurred MR. JuSTIcE
MR. JUsTIcE L~Amn and MR. JusTmE BRoww, dissent-

'HARL.&.,
ing.

JUSTIcEs THtrif, LxAR, BRowN and myself dissent from
the judgment of the court in this case. We do so both on

MAINE v,. GRAND TRIUN], "I%'Y C0.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Lamar, Brown, J.

principle and authority. On principle, because, 'whilst the
purpose of the law professes to be to lay -a tax upon the
foreign company for the privilege of exercising its franchise in
the State of Maine, the mode of doing this is unconstitutional.
The mode adopted is the laying of a tax on the gross receipts
of the company, and these receipts, of course, include receipts
for interstate and international transportation between other
States and Maine, and between Canada and the United States.
Now, if after the previous legislation ' which has been adopted
-'The" previous legislation" referredto in the dissenting opinion is stated
in the record as follows:
"The court found the facts as follows: By an act of the Legislature of
this State atiproved Feb'y 10, 1845, the Atlantic and St. Lawrence :Railroad
Company was incorporated, with power to construct and maintain a railroad from some point in the city of Portland to the boundary line of the
-State of Maine ' at such place as will best connect with a railroad to be
constructed from said boundary to Montreal, in Canada.'
",Section 14 of the act of incorporation further provided ' said corporation is vested with power and authority to continue and prolong said railroad beyond the line of this State to the boundary of Canada, and to pur-'
chase, take and hold lands or the right of way over lands for the purpose
of constructing said railroad in continuation, without the 1-nits of this
State, on and over said lands to the said boundary of Canada:
"' Provided the same can be done consistentlf with the laws and regulations of the State or States in which said lands lie and through and over
the territory of which such railroad in continuation would pass.'
"The necessary authority for such continuation of the railroad was obtained from the States of New Hampshire and Vermont, and the road was
constructed from Portland to Island Pond, in Vermont. In the State of
Maine are 821 miles of this railroad; in New Hampshire 52 miles, and in
Vermont 15 miles.
-By section 16 it was enacted:
"' All real estate purchased by said corporation for the use of the same,
under the fifth section of this act, shall be taxable to said corporation by
the several towns, cities and plantations in which said lands lie, in the
same manner as lands owned by private persons, and shall in the valuation
list be estimated the same as other real estate of the same quality in such
town, city or plantation, and not otherwise, and the shares owned by the
respective stockholders shall be deemed personal estate and be taxable as
such to the owners thereof in the places where they reside and have their
home; and whenever the net income of said corporation shall have
amounted to ten per centum per annum upon the cost of the road and its
appendages and incidental expenses, the directors shall make a special report of the fact to the Legislature, from and after which time one moiety,

OCTOBERI TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Lamar, Brown, JJ.

with regard to admitting the company to carry on business
within the State, the legislature has still the right to tax it for
or such other portion as the Legislature may from time tok
time determine,
of the net income from said railroad accruing thereafter over and above ten
per c entum per annum, first to be paid to the stockholders, shall annually be
paid over by the treasurer of said corporation, as a tax, into the treasury of
the State for the use of the State, and the State may have and maintain an
action against said corporation therefor to recover the same; but no other
tax than herein is provided shall ever be levied or assessed on said corporation or any of their privileges or franchises."
"Section 18 gives to the Legislature the right'to inquire into the doings
of the corporation and its use and employment of the privileges and fran'chises granted to it, with power 'to correct and prevent abuses of, the
same, and to pass any laws imposing fines and penalties upon said corporation which may be necessary more effectually to compel a compliance with
the provisions, liabilities and ddties hereinbefore set forth and-enjoined,
but not to impose any other or further duties, liabilities or obligations;
and this charter shall not be revoked, annulled, altered, limited or restrained
without the consent of the corporation, except by due process of law.'
"The Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada is a foreign corporation, incorporated under the laws of the Province of Canada, and has its
principal place of business at Montreal, in the Dominion of Canada, and
possessed in the year 1853, and from that time to the present has continually possessed, a railroad connecting with and in extension of the railroad
of the Atlantic and St. Lawrence Railroad Company at Island Pond, in the
* State ofVermont, and extending to Montreal. It also, at and long before
the date of the assessment of taxes demanded in this action,'possessed a
' line of railroad connecting with the before-mentioned railroad at Montreal
anid extending through the Dominion of Canada to Detroit, in the State of
Michigan.
"On the 29th day of March, 1853, by an act of the Legislature of the
State of Maine, approved that day, the Atlantic and St. Lawrence Railroad
Company was authorized to ' enter into and execute such a lease of the railroad of said company, or contract in the nature of a lease, as will enable
the lessee thereof to maintain and operate, by means of said railroad and
other roads in extension of the same, a connected line of railroads from
the Atlantic Ocean at Portland to the city of Montreal, in the Province of
Canada, and thence to the western part of said province."
'Under the authority thus conferred the Atlantic and, St. Lawrence
Railroad Company and the Grand Trunk Railway Company entered into a
preliminary agreement for a lease to the latter company; but -inasmuch ds
the proposed lessee had not ' the legal competency to enter into and execute.
such lease for want of the requisite legislative authority therefor,' a lease
was on the 5th day of August, A.D. 1853, entered into and executed by the
Atlantic and St. Lawrence 'Railroad Company as lessors and certain individ-

MAINE v. GRAND TRUNK R'Y CO.
Dissenting Opinion; Bradley, Harlan, Lamar, Brown, JJ

the exercise of its franchises, it should do so in a constitutional
manner, and not (as it has done) by a tax on the receipts derived from interstate and international transportation. The
power to regulate commerce among the several States (except
as to matters merely local) is just as exclusive a power in, Conuals as lessees and trustees for the Grand Trunk Railway Co., the lessees to
hold until the Railway Co. should obtain requisite authority, and then to
transfer to it the said lease and all Tight, title and interest under the same.
"The trustees and lessees, on the ninth day of February, A.D. 1855,
formally assigned the above-mentioned lease to the defendants, who had, in
the meantime, procured the requisite legislative authority, and thereupon.
the property was delivered to and taken possession'of by the defendants,
who have ever since possessed, managed, controlled and operated the railroad leased, with all its appurtenances, as a part of their line, from Portland through the States of Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont and the
Dominion of Canada to Detroit, in the State of Michigan.
"Feb. 10, 1872, the Lewiston and Auburn Railroad Company was incorporated by the Legislature of Maine, with authority to locate and construct
a railroad ' from some point in the city of Lewiston to some point on the
Atlantic and St. Lawrence railroad, otherwise known as the Grand Trunk
railway, within the limits of the city of AuburA.'
"Under this authority a line some five and one-half miles in length was
constructed, and on the 25th of March, A.D. 1874, was leased to the defendants, who have since been constantly in the control, management and possession of the same.
"One clause in this lease is: ' All taxes which may lawfully be assessed
upon the corporate property or franchise of the lessors during the period
of their lease may be paid by the lessee, and if so paid shall be deducted
from the rent herein covenanted to be paid by said lessee.'
"The charter of the Lewiston & Auburn R. R. Co. contains nothing inrespect to taxation nor any exemption from or restriction of legislative control
" The Norway Branch Railroad Company was incorporated by the Legislature of this State Feb. 22, 1872, to construct and maintain a railroad
' from some point in or near the village of Norway, thence to South Paris,
connecting at that point with the Grand Trunk railroad.'
"This road is about one and one-half miles in length, and after its construction by permission of the Legislature was leased, prior to the time covered by these assessments, to the defendant company, in whose possession,
management and control it has since been.
"Nothing is found in its charter about taxes, nor is the general control
of the Legislature in anywise restricted or limited.
"The Atlantic & St. Lawrence Railroad Company was duly constituted a
corporation in New Hampshire and Vermoht by the legislatures of those
States, and its lease to the Grand-Trunk Company was by the same authority confirmed and approved."

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, Lamar:, Brown, JJ.

gress as is the power to regulate, commerce with, foreign
nations and with the Indian tribes. It is given in the- same
clause and couched in the same phraseology; but if it may bi
exercised by the States, it might as well be expunged from the
Constitution. We think it a power not only granted to be exercised, but that it is of first importance, being one of the
principal moving causes of the adoption of the Constitution.
The disputes between the different States in reference to inter-.
state facilities of intercourse, and the discriminations adopted
to favor each its own maritime cities, produced a state of
things almost, intolerable to be borne. But, passing this by,
the decisions of this court for a number of years past have
settled the. principle that taxation (which is a mode of regulation) of interstate commerce, or-of the revenues derived therefrom, (which is the same thing,) is contrary to the Constitution.
Gbing no further back than Pickardv. Pullman's Southhrn
Car Col, 117 U. S. 34, we find that principle laid down. There
a privilege tax was imposed upon Pullman's Palace Car Company, by general legislation it is true, but applied to the company, of $50 per annum on every sleeping car going through
the State. It was w6l1 known, and appeared by the record,
that every sleeping car going through the State carried
passengers from Ohio and other northern States, to Alabama,
and vice versa, and we held that Tennessee had no right to tax
those cars. It was the same thing as if they had taxed the
amount derived from the passengers in the cars. So also in
the case of Idoup v. The Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, we
held that the receipts derived by the telegraph company from
messages sent from one State to another could not be
and Weetern Railroad
taxed. So in the case of the Norfo
v. Pennylvania, 136 'U. S. 114, where the railroad was a link
in a through line by whi~h passengers and freight were carried
into other States, the company was held to be engaged in the
business of interstate commerce, and could not be taxed for
the privilege of keeping an office in the State. And in the
case of Crutcher v. Xentucky, 141 U. S. 47, we held that the
taxation of an express company for doing an express business
between different States was unconstitutional and void. And

MAINE v.' GRAND TRUNK R'Y .C0.
Dissenting Opinion: Bfadley, Harlan, LamaA Brown, "JJ.

in the case of -Philade~ia&C. leam8hip Co. v. Pennybvania,122 U.'S. 326, we held that a tax upon the gross receipts
of the company was void because they were derived from'interstate and foreign commerce. A great many other cases
might be referred to, showing that in the decisions and
opinions of this court this kind of taxation is unconstitutional
and void.
We think that the present decision is a departure from the
line of these decisions. The tax, it is true, is called a tax on
a franchise. It is so called, but what is it in fact? It is a tax
on the receipts of the company derived from international
transportation.
This court and some of the state courts have gone a great
tepgth in sustaining various forms of taxes upon corporations.
The train of reasoning upon which it is founded may be questionable. A corporation, according to this class of decisions,
may be taxed several times over. It may be taxed for its charter; for its franchises; for the privilege of carrying on its business; it may be taxed on its capital; and it may be taxed on its
property. Each of these taxations may be carried to the ful
amount of the property of the company. I do not know that
jealousy of corporate institutions could be carried much fur-,
ther. This court held that the taxation of the capital stock of
the Western Union Telegraph Company in Massachusetts, graduated according to the mileage of lines in that State compared
with the lines in all the States, was nothing but a taxation
upon the property of the company; yet it was in terms a tax
upon its capital stock, and might as well have been a tax upon
its gross receipts. By the present decision it is held that taxation may be imposed upon the gross receipts of the company
for the exercise of its franchise within the State, if graduated
according to the number of miles that the road runs in the
State. Then it comes to this: A State may tax a railroad
company upon its gross receipts in proportion to the number
of miles run within the State, as a tax on its property; and
may also lay a tax upon these same gross receipts, in proportion to the same number of miles, for the privilege of exercising its franchise in the State! I do not know what else it may

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

.not tax the gross receipts for. If the interstate commerce of
the country is not, or will not be, handicapped by this course
of decision, I do lot understand the ordinary principles which
govern human conduct.
We dissent from the opinion of the court.

MARTIN v. GRAY.
APPEAL FRDM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
16. 1065. Submitted December 7, 1891. -,Decided

December 21, 1891.

Nben a person, whose equity of redemption in mortgaged real estate is
foreclosed, rests inactive for eleven years, with full knowledge of the
foreclosure, and of the purchaser's rights claimed under it, and of his
own rights, and with notbing to hinder the assertion of the latter, and
then files a bill in equity to have the foreclosure proceedings declared
void for want of proper service of process upon him, this court will at
least construe the language of the returns so as to sustain the legality of
the service, if that can reasonably be done, even if it should not regard it
as too late to set up such a claim.
THE

cQurt stated the case as follows:

On September 29, 1890, appellant filed his bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the iDistrict of Kentucky, the
object of which was to set aside a commissioner's deed to defendant, executed years before, in pursuance of certain proceedings in the District Court of the United States for that
district. The facts as alleged were these:
Prior to May 2, 1879, the plaintiff, his mother, sister and
brother, were the owners, each, of an undivided one-fourth of
a lot in the city of Louisville, which lot was subject to a lease
from the four owners to Thomas Slevin, who, as tenant, had
built thereon houses of great value. On January 9, 1865,
plaintiff had given to Thomas Slevinhis note for two thousand
dollars, payable in two years, and had secured the same by a
mortgage of his undivided one-fourth of said property. Interest thereon was paid regularly until January 9., 1869, by the

