OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Motion.

would do satisfactory work. There is nothing in that letter
to indicate that any particular time was in the minds of the
parties as to when such work was to be completed. Of course,
the law implies that the completion of the work should not be
unnecessarily prolonged, It should be done in a reasonable
time. It was completed on or before October 16, 1885, for on
that day it was accepted as satisfactory by Summerville, who,
as before stated, had been agreed upon as a referee to determine when the mill did satisfactory work. Whether tfie period
between August 6 and October 16, during which time the
corn-rolls were being perfected, was an unreasonable time, or
too great a delay, was in reality a question for the jury.to
determine, under proper instructions from the court. As no
error is assigned to the charge of the court in this respect, and
no exception was taken to the charge as given, except to it as
an entirety, it must be presumed that no error was committed
in this behalf; and that the jury found all the elements of an
acceptance, by the plaintiff in error, of the completed mill.
Judgment afflrmed.

WAUTON v. DEWOLF.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1450.

Submitted December 7,1891. -Decided

December 21,1891.

This court has no jurisdiction over an appeal from a Circuit Court taken
July 27, 1891, from a decree entered July 7, 1890, in a case where
the jurisdiction of that court depended upon the diverse citizenship of
the parties.

THIs was a motion to vacate an order docketing and dismissing this case, made'on the 3d of last November, on the motion
of appellees' counsel, and for leave to the appellant to docket
the case and file the record. The case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. W. ffaZlett Pkillips for the motion.

WAUTOI

v. DFWOLF.

Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. A. B. Browne (with whom was Mr. A. T. BrttOn)
opposing.
MR. CmIF JusTICE FuLLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This cause was docketed and dismissed November 3, 1891,
upon a certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court of the United
States of the Ninth Judicial Circuit in and for the Northern
District of California, to the effect that in a certain cause pending in that court, wherein Florence W. Wauton was complainant and Frank E. DeWolf, Isabella 0. DeWolf, and Horace
M. Barnes were defendants, a final decree was rendered on the
7th of July, A.D. 1890, in favor of defendants and against

the complainant,, and that on the 29th of September, 1890,
complainant prayed an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States, which was allowed. A motion is now made to
set aside the order of dismissal and for leave to docket the case
and file the record.
The transcript submitted with the motion shows that, as
stated in the certificate, the decree of the Circuit Court was
entered July '1,1890, and an appeal was allowed September
29, 1890, but nothing was done, and the case was not docketed
here at the October term, 1890. On July 27, 1891, a bond on
appeal was presented to and approved by the Circuit Judge,
who on the same day signed a citation returnable to this court
on September 19, 1891.
When the term elapsed at which the appeal of September
29, 1890, was returnable, without the filing of the record, that
appeal had spent its force, Evan8 v. State Bank, 134 U. S. 330,
and appellees caused the case to be docketed and dismissed as
above gtated.
Conceding that the approval of the bond, July 27, 1891, and
the signing of the citation, were equivalent to the allowance of
a second appeal, returnable to the present term, the transcript
of record was not filed on or before the return day, nor delivered to our clerk'until November 18, 1891 ; and the sole excuse
for this delay which appellant presents, is that it was supposed
that the clerk of the Circuit Court would transmit the transcript

OCTOBER TERM:, 1891.
Syllabus.

when it was completed. It appears from the record that the
suit involves -land situated in California, and was commenced
in the state court against the defendants who were citizens
of Rhode Island and New York, and after summons by publication, was removed on their application to the Circuit Court.
The ground of Federal jurisdiction was diverse citizenship.
By the act of March 3, 1891, (26 Stat. 826, c. 517,) establishing the Circuit Courts of Appeals, the jurisdiction of this court,
in cases dependent upon diverse citizenship, was taken away;
but by the joint resolution of March 3, 1891, (26 Stat. 1115,)
the jurisdiction was preserved as to pending cases and cases
wherein the writ of error or appeal should be sued out or taken
before July 1, 1891.
So far then as this second and independent appeal is concerned, it came too late, and as, if the case were now docketed
under that appeal, it would have to be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, we are, without passing upon the question of
laches, compelled to deny the motion.

XMotion denied.

CLA ASSEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

OF NEW YORK.

No. 1191. Argued December 10, 11, 1891. -Decided

December 21, 1891.

An indictment on Rev. Stat. ยง 5209, is sufficient, which avers that the
defendant was president of a national, banking association; that by
virtue of his office he received and took into his possession certain
bonds (described), the property of the association; and that, with intent
to injure and defraud the association, he embezzled the bonds and converted them to his own use.
In a criminal case, a general judgment upon an indictment containing
several counts, and a verdict of guilty on each count, cannot be reversed
on error if any count is good and is sufficient to support the judgment.
Upon writ of error, no error in law can be reviewed which does not appear
upon the record, or by bill of exceptions made part of the record.

