OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

or lease might assist in defraying the expenses of the improvement. A ruling which would allow a single riparian owner
upon the pond created by this dam to take to himself one-half
of the surplus water without having contributed anything
towards the creation of such surplus or to the public improvement, would savor strongly of an appropriation of public property for private use. If any such water power were incidentally
created by the erection of a dam, it was obviously intended that
it should belong to the public and be used for their benefit,
and not for the emolument of a private riparian proprietor.
The cutting of the embankment undek the circumstances of
this case and the appropriation of the surplus water which the
Water Power Company had had no hand in creating, was a
trespass which the court had a right to enjoin.
We do not undertake to say whether a bill in equity, framed
upon the basis of a large amount of surplus water not used,
might not lie to compel an equitable division of the saxhe upon
the ground that it would otherwise run to waste.
Our conclusion is that there was no taking of the property
of 'the plaintiff in error without due process of law, and the
-deckee of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin is
Afflrmed.
iMiR. JUSTIcE HARLAN dissented.

ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND MANITOBA RAILWAY COMPANY v. TODD COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 132.

Argued and submitted December 18, 1891.-

Decided January 4, 1892.

A decision of the Supreme Court of a State, sustaining as valid a statutory
contract of the State exempting the property of a railway company from
taxation, but deciding that a certain class of property did not come within
the terms of the exemption, is not an impairment of the contract by a
law of the State and is not subject to review in error here.
New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisi ia Sugar Refining Co., 125 U. S.
18, affirmed and applied.

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY v. TODD OOUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

THE court stated the case as follows:

This was a proceeding to enforce payment of taxes on real
estate remaining delinquent on the'first Monday of January,
1886, for the county of Todd, State of Minnesota, and was
tried in the District Court of thq Seventh Judicial District of
that State, which made and filed findings of fact and conclusions of law and ordered judgment for the county against the
railway company for the collection of the taxes in question and
the interest and penalti s thereon together with costs. The
entry of judgment was then stayed by the District Court,
which certified its findings of fact and its decision in the case
to the Supreme Court of the State for its consideration. The
matter having been duly argued and submitted, the Supreme
Court affirmed the order of the court below, whereupon a remittitur having been sent down, judgment was given in favor
of the county and against the railway company, adjudging the
lands in question liable for taxes, penalties, costs and disbursements, and that the lands be sold unless the amouftts were
paid accordingly, and afterwards, an appeal having been taken
to the Supreme Court, the judgment of the District Court was
in all things affirmed. A writ of error from this court was
then allowed by the Chief Justice of the State Supreme Court.
The opinion of that coutt will be found reported in 38 Minnesota, 163, and states-the case as follows:
" This railway corporation in 1882 purchased 35,000 acres of
land in Todd'County, which, excepting an inconsiderable portiof, was timbered land. The question to be determined is as
to whether these lands are exempt from ordinary taxation.
The lands were purchased on account of their being valuable
timber lands. Since 1885 the corporation has been engaged
in cutting the timber, and converting it into boards, plank, ties
and lumber of all kinds. The greater part of this has been
used in constructing and repairing the railroad of this corporation in this State; the remainder (about one-third) has been
used for a like purpose upon that part of the road which is in
the Territory of Dakota. In some places, where the timber
has been cut, grass has grown up, a small quantity of which

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

hasbeen sold. Upon a part of one tract a town site had been
platted before this land was purchased by the corporation, and
a part of the lots are now owned by it.
"This corporation became the owner of a part of the line of
the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, and as to its
line of road succeeded to the rights, franchises and immunities
of that company, including its exemption from ordinary taxation. As to this no question is raised; nor that the charter of
the Minnesota and Pacific Company is to be referred to as defining the exemption to which the St. Paul, Minneapolis and
Manitoba Company is entitled. By section 1 of this charter
(Laws 1857, Ex. Sess. c. 1) corporate powers were granted,
including the right to acquire, by purchase or otherwise, and
to hold, convey, sell and lease, property and estates, either real
or personal or mixed. Section 2 empowered the corporation
to locate, construct and operate a railroad. Section 3 authorized the appropriation, by virtue of the right of eminent domain, of a belt of land, not exceeding 200 feet in width, throughout the entire length of the road, and to take property even
beyond that limit for certain necessary purposes. Section 16
regranted to the corporation the lands granted to the Territory
by act of Congress. Section 18 provided for the annual payment to the State of three per cent of the gross earnings of the
railroad, 'in lieu of all taxes and assessments whatever,' and
that, 'in consideration of such annual payments, the said company shall be forever exempt from all assessments and taxes
whatever . . . upon all stock in the said Minnesota and
Pacific Railroad Company, whether belonging to said company
or to individuals, and upon all its franchises or estate, real, personal or mixed, held by said company; and said land granted
by said act of Congress . . . shall be exempt from all taxation till sold and conveyed by said company.' Section 20
declared that the company should be ' capable, in law, of taking and holding any lands granted by the government of the
United States, or of this Territory, or of the future State, or
by other parties, which shall be conveyed to it by this act, or
by deed, gift or purchase, or by operation of law, and may
mortgage, pledge, sell and convey the same. . .
"

ST. PAUL &o. RAILWAY v. TODD COUNTY.

285

Opinion of the Court.
2fr. ff. D. Grover for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Mo~es E. 6'app, Attorney General of the State of Min'aesota, for defendant in error, submitted on his brief.

MR.C=EF JUSTmCE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The lands in question were assessed in pursuance of sections
1 and 6, of chapter 11, of the General Statutes of the State of
Minnesota, entitled "Taxes, ' which are as follows:
"ยง 1. All real and personal property in this State, and all
personal property of persons residing therein, the property of
corporations now existing, or hereafter created, and the property of all banks or banking companies. now existing or hereafter created, and of all bankers, except such as is hereinafter
expressly excepted, is subject to taxation, and such property,
or the value thereof, shall be entered in the list of taxable
property for that purpose, in the manner prescribed by. this
act: provided, that railroad, insurance and telegraph companies shall be taxed in such manner as now is or may be hereafter
fixed by law."
"ยง 6. All real property in this State, subject to taxation,
shall be listed and assessed every even-numbered year, with
reference to its value on the first day of May preceding the
assessment; and all real estate becoming taxable any intervening year shall be listed and assessed with reference to its value
on the first day of May of that year." Stats. Minn. 1878, 4th
ed. c. 11, ยง 1 and 6; Stats. Minn. 1891, ยง 1382, 1428 and
references.
Sections 1 and 7, c. 12, of the Revised Statutes of the Territory of Minnesota for the year 1851 (p. 94) read:
"Sec. 1. All property, real and personal, within the Territory, not expressly exempted therefrom, shall be subject to
taxation in the manner provided by law."
"Sec. 7. The real estate of incorporated companies, liable
to taxation, shall be assessed in the district in which the same
shall lie, in the same manner as the real estate of individuals."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

By section 2 of the schedule of the state constitution,
adopted in 1857, it was provided: "All laws now in force in
the Territory of Minnesota not repugnant to this constitution,
shall remain in force until they expire by their own limitation,
or be altered or repealed by the legislature." Stats. Minn. 1878,
p. 30.
We are met on the threshold of the case by the objection
that the writ of error cannot be maintained.
It is conceded that the Supreme Court of Minnesota did not
put its decision on the ground that there was not a valid contract between the State and the company exempting its property from taxation, but keld that the exemption claimed did
not attach to these lands, and it is argued that "if such lands
are within the contract of exemption contained in the company's charter, then the obligation of that contract was impaired by the assessment, under chapter 11 of the general laws
of the State, and the decision of the Supreme Court holding
that the lands were subject to assessment under such laws."
Our jurisdiction cannot be maintained upon that view. As
stated by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, in New
Orlekns Waterworks Company v. Louisiana Sugar Refining
Company, 125 U. S. 18, 30: " In order to come within the
provision of the Constitution of the United States which declares that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts, not only must the obligation of a contract
have been impaired, but it must have been impaired by a law
of the State. The prohibition is aimed at the legislative
power of the State, and not at the decisions of its courts, or the
acts of administrative or executive boards or officers, or the
doings of corporations or individuals." And the language of
Mr. Justice Miller, in exposition of the rule, isquoted from two
opinions of the court delivered by him: "It must be the constitution, or some law of the State, which impairs the obligation of the contract, or which is otherwise in conflict with the
Constitution of the United States; and the decision of the state
court must sustain the law or constitution of' the State in the
matter in which the conflict is supposed to exist; or the case
for this court does not arise." Railroad Conpany v. Bock, 4

ST. PAUL &c. RAILWAY v. TODD COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

Wall. 177, 181. "" We are not authorized by the judiciary act
to review the judgments of the state courts because their
judgments refuse to give effect to valid contracts, or because
those judgments, in their effect, impair the obligation of contract. If we did, every case decided in a state court could be
brought here, when the party setting up a contract alleged
that the court had taken a different view of its obligation to
that which he held." Enox v. E ckange Bank, 12 Wall. 379,
383.
The position of the State was not that the lands in question
were rendered taxable by any law passed subsequent to the
company's charter, but that under the terms of the contract
itself the lands were taxable. No subsequent law is referred
to upon which the opinion of the court proceeded; on the contrary, the law was the same, so far as any question arising
here was concerned, as that above quoted from the territorial
law of 1851. What the court held was that statutes imposing
restrictions upon the taxing power of a State, except so far as
they tend to secure uniformity and equality of assessment, are
to be strictly construed, Bank v. Tennesee, 104 U. S. 493, and
that tested by this rule the exemption in the company's charter "was not applicable to large tracts of timber land purchased by the corporation from which to take timber to be
converted into ties and lumber for the use of the corporation,"
and that consequently these lands were subject to taxation.
It is impossible therefore for this writ of error to be sustained,
and it is accordingly
Dismissed.
MR. JusTicE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE L Am&were not
present at the argument and took no part in the decision of
this case.

