OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

brought his own counsel from home to examine those records,
and acted upon his judgment of the title. The conduct of the
defendants supports their testimony, that they believed there
was validity to their title. The particular statements complained of as against one of these appellants were true in fact,
and, if not true, were not of a character to avoid the purchase.
The wrong which these two appellants are specially charged
to have been guilty of was a wrong against their associates
and not against the purchaser, nor one of which he can take
advantage. It follows, therefore, that there was no such
showing made as would justify a court in rescinding the contract of purchase, and decreeing a repayment of the money.
The decree wiM be reversed, and the case remanded, with
istructions to dismiss the bill as to these appellants.
MiR. JUSTICE: Giy did not hear the argument or take part
in the decision of this case.

FINN v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

STATES FOR THE

No. 106. Argued November 24, 25, 1891. -Decided December 14,1591.
:Fifty shares of the stock of a national bank were transferred to F. on the
books of the bank October 29. A certificate therefor was made out but
not delivered to him. He knew nothing of the transfer and did not
authorize it to be made. On October 30 he was appointed a director and
vice-president. On November 21 he was authorized to act as cashier.
He acted as vice-president and cashier from that day. On December
12 he bought and paid for 20 other shares. On January 2 following,
while the bank was insolvent, a dividend on its stock was fraudulently
made, and $1750 therefor placed to the credit of F. on its books. He,
learning on that day of the transfer of the 50 shares, ordered D., the
president of the bank, who had directed the transfer of the 50 shares,
to retransfer it, and gave to D. his check to the order of D., individually,
for $1250 of the $1750. The bank failed January 22. In a suit by the
receiver of the bank against F. to recover the amount of an assessment

FINN v. BROWN.
Statement of the Case.
of 100 per cent by the Comptroller of the Currency in enforcement of
the individual liability of the shareholders, and to recover the $1750:
Held,
(1) In view of provisions of §§ 5146, 5147 and 5210 of the Revised Statutes, it must be presumed conclusively that F. knew, from November 21, that the books showed he held 50 shares;
(2) F. did not get rid of his liability for the $1250, by giving to D. his
check for that sum in favor of D. individually.

To court stated the case as follows:
This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado, by the receiver of
the First National Bank of Leadville, Colorado, against Nicholas Finn, to recover $8750, with interest upon $7000 thereof
from September 28, 1885, and upon $1750 thereof from January 2, 1884. The bank was a national banking corporation;
and, it becoming insolvent, the Comptroller of the Currency, on
the 24th of January, 1884, appointed one Ellsworth receiver
of the bank, who afterwards resigned, and the plaintiff became
his successor.
The amended complaint alleges, that the defendant, on the
29th of October, 1883, became the holder of 50 shares of the
capital stock of the bank, and, on the 12th of December, 1883,
the holder of 20 others of such shares, the shares being of the
par value of $100 each; that certificates of stock were duly
issued to the defendant for such shares respectively; that, on
the 28th of September, 1885, the Comptroller of the Currency,
under § 5151 of the Revised Statutes, determined that, in order
to provide the money necessary to pay the debts of the bank,
it was necessary to enforce the individual liability of its shareholders to the full extent of 100 per celtum of the par value
of the shares of its capital stock, and thereupon, on that day,
made an assessment to that effect, and directed the plaintiff to
take the necessary proceedings to enforce such individual liability; that thereupon there became due from the defendant
$7000; that due notice was thereupon served upon him; but
that he had paid no part of the assessment.
The amended complaint then sets forth, as a second cause of
action, that on the 2d of January, 1884, and for a long time

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of -the Case.

prior'thereto, the defendant was a shareholder and director,
and acting cashier, of the bank; that, on that date and for a
long time prior thereto, the bank was insolvent; that on that
date, by its board of directors, it fraudulently and wrongfully
declared a dividend of 25 per cent on its capital stock, to be
paid to its shareholders; that the defendant, as such director,
was present at the meeting of the board at which such -dividend was declared, and united in such action,. with full knowledge of such insolvency; that on that date, the defendant
received from the bank $1750, as his proportion, on said 70
shares, of said dividend, and retained, and still retains, that
sum, with full knowledge that at that date there were then no
net profits of the bank, and that the dividend was wrongfully
'withdrawn from its capital stock; and that repayment of the
$1750 had been demanded by the defendant, and refused.
The angwer denies that the defendant ever became the
holder of the 50 shares of stock, or that there was issued to
him a certificate for 50 shares, but admits that on the 12th of
December, 1883, he became the holder of 20 shares, and that
there was issued to him a certificate therefor. It admits the
defendant's liability for $2000 on the 20 shares of stock, arid
alleges that, after the commencement of the suit, he paid to
the plaintiff the $2000. It denies that, at the time stated in
the second cause of action set forth in the amended complaint,
as to the $1750, the defendant Was a director of the bank, or
that he ever was its acting cashier. It takes issue as to the
declaring of the 25 per cent dividend, and denies that the defendant, as a director of the bank or otherwise, was present at
the meeting of the board at which it was declared, or that he
united in such alleged action with any knowledge of the insolvency of the bank or otherwise, and denies that he received
the $1750 as his proportion of such dividend, but admits that
he received $500 as a dividend of 25 per cent upon the 20
shares.
The cause was tried before the court and a jury, and a verdict
was rendered for the plailtiff, for $7833.33, and a judgment for
the plaintiff for that amount was -entered. The defendant has
sued out a writ of error to review that judgment. There is a

FINN v. BROWN.
Statement of the Case.

bill of exceptions, which contains all the evidence given on the
trial.
The facts of the case appear to be as follows: The doors of
the bank were closed on the 22d of January, 1884. Immediately thereafter Ellsworth was appointed receiver, and
continued to be such until February 1, 1884, when, on his
resignation, the plaintiff was appointed in his place. According to the stubs of'the book of certificates and as shown by the
stock register, 50 shares of the stock were transferred to the
defendant, by issuing a certificate for 50 shares, dated October
29, 1883, 40 shares of which were issued to the defendant from
the stock of one McNany, and ten shares from the stock of
Frank W. De Walt, the president of the bank. Those 50
shares constituted the only stock which stood in the name of
the defendant, until December 12, 1883. On the 30th of October, 1883, at a directors' meeting, the defendant was appointed
a director; and on the same day, at a directors' meeting, he
was appointed vice-president of the bank. On the 21st of
Novenber, 1883, at a directors' meeting, at .which the defendant was present and voting, the resignation of P. J. Sours, the
bashier, was accepted and the defendant, as vice-president,
was authorized to act as cashier until a new cashier should be
regularly appointed. On the same day, the defendant and
De Walt, the president, were authorized to pass judgment on
all notes, etc., offered for discount. The defendant discharged
the duties of vice-president from the 21st of November, 1883,
until the bank failed. It appeared from the book of share
certificates, that the defendant, at the time of the failure of
the bank, was the owner of 70 shares of its stock. It also
appeared that, since this suit was brought, he had paid the
$2000 assessment on the 20 shares. It further appeared that
the defendant, as vice-president, wrote a number of letters to
correspondents of the bank, notifying them of the resignation
of Sours as cashier and enclosing the defendant's signature,
which was to be recognized on bills of exchange, etc., subsequent to that time; and that he signed, as vice-president, between November 21 and December 12, 1883, and also between
December 12, 1883, and January 22, 1884, a large number of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

certificates of deposit and bills of exchange issued by the bank.
No regular stock book was kept in the bank, but a list of
stockholders and transfers of stock appeared in one of its
books, in which was entered a credit to the defendant of 50
shares of stock on October 29, 1883, and of 20 shares more,
purchased by him from Sours, on December 12, 1883. It
appeared that nb demand had been made upon De Walt or
McNany to pay the assessment on the 50 shares. The defendant claimed that the 50 shares were transferred to him without
his knowledge or consent; that no transfer appeared upon the
books, to the credit of either De Walt or McNany from the
defendant, of any sum of money for the 50 shares; and that
the certificate for the 50 shares was not among the papers
of the bank, so far as the receiver could ascertain. The defendant, on cross-examination as a witness, gave evidence tending
to show that, in connection with De Walt, he had fulfilled the
duties of cashier of the bank from the time of his election as
vice-president. The boots of the bank showed that it was
insolvent on January 2, 1884:. Sours owned 20 shares of the
stock on the 29th of October, 1883. On that day he tendered
his resignation to the president, and on the same day the president instructed him to issue a certificate of stock for 50 shares
in the name of the defendant, transferring 40 shares thereof
from the stock of MciNany, and ten shares from the stock of
De Walt. Sours wrote the certificate, signed it as cashier, and
left it in the book of certificates, but did not deliver it to the
defendant. On the 21st of November, 1883, Sours attended
a meeting of the directors, at which time his resignation as
cashier was accepted; and, at that meeting, the defendant
was elected a director, and on the saome day, at a meeting
attended by the defendant, the latter was elected vice-president. On December 12, 1883, the defendant paid Sours $2400
for his 20 shares, and Sours handed to him the certificate
therefor, duly assigned. It was customary for Sours, as cashier, to sign new certificates of stock as issued. He resigned
because he was not satisfied with the manner in which the bank
was conducted and had his fears of coming disasters. He knew
that no cashier had been elected to take his place, and that the

FININ v. BROWN.
Statement of the Case.

duties of that office had been performed by the defendant;
and Sours ceased his active connection with the bank after
the defendant bad been elected vice-president and before he
disposed of his stock to the defendant.
The defendant testified that he knew nothing of the transfer
of the 50 shares of stock to his name, and was absent from
Leadville at the time; that after he returned, he was urged
by De Walt to invest in the stock of the bank and become one
of 'its active officers, which he consented to do; that on th6
21st of November, 1883, he was elected a director, he being
present at the meeting; that, at the same meeting, he was
elected vice-president, and entered at once upon the discharge
of his duties; that he was then urged to obtain some .stock in
the bank, and was informed by the president that 20 shares
of the stock could be secured from Sours for a premium of
$20 per share, and was advised by the president to take it, the
latter representing the bank to be in a prosperous condition;
that the defendant then purchased the 20 shares from Sours,
and had them transferred to his name on the books, and took
a certificate therefor; that, from the time of his election as
vice-president, he performed some of the business of the bank,
had his headquarters 'in the bank, wrote some letters, and
signed some certificates of depbsit and bills of exchange, the
business being of a routine character, and he having little
knowledge of the books and .no knowledge of the condition of
the bank, and relying almost entirely upon the representations
and management of the president; and that he never had a
certificate for the. 50 shares or any other shares, except the 20
shares.
On the 2d of January, 1881, a dividend of 25 per cent on
the capital stock of the bank was declared, and the sum of
$1750 was transferred to the credit of the defendant, as his
share of such dividend on 70 shares of stock. At that time,
the bank was wholly insolvent, and the declaration of the
dividend was fraudulent. According to the record of the
directors' meeting at which the dividend was declared, the defendant was present and seconded the motion to declare the
dividend. The entry in the book of records of the bank of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the declaration of the dividend was thought to be in the handwriting of a fTmale relative of the president. The defendant
testified that on the 2d of January, 1884, he was informed by
De Walt, the president, that a dividend of 25 per cent had
been declared, and, by some one else, that the sum of $1750
on account of such dividend had been transferred to his credit
by order of De Walt: that, being the owner of only 20 shares,
he at once inquired of De Walt about it, when, for the first
time, he was informed that the 50 shares had been transferred
to his credit and stood in his name on the books of the bank,
in consequence of which $1250 had been transferred to his
credit as soon as the dividend was declared; that he inquired
of De Walt why the 50 shares were in his name, and was informed that they had been so transferred merely because De
Walt thought the defendant might desire to purchase them as
a good investment; that the defendant at once repudiated the
transaction, and refused to purchase the stock or have anything to do with it, and ordered De Walt to retransfer the
same back to his own name without delay; that the defendant
immediately sat down and drew his check for $1250 to the
order of De Walt individually, and handed it to the latter;
that the check was duly charged on the books of the bank to
the defendant and credited to the account of De Walt; that
almost immediately thereafter, the defendant was summoned
on a jury, and was kept in attendance thereon almost constantly until th6 21st of January, 1884, the day but one before
the suspension of the bank; that, during a part of such jury
service, he was confined with the other jurors, and not permitted to separate from them; that the next day after the
agreement of the jury, he was engaged in looking after the
affairs of the bank, and did not think of the stock or whether
it had been transferred by De Walt; and that the bank almost
immediately suspended.
The defendant also gave evidence tending to show that he
never attended a meeting of the directors for the purpose of
declaring the dividend of January 2, and knew nothing about
the fact that the books contained such an entry; and that he
had no knowledge of the declaration of the dividend beyonR

FIN

v. BROWNr.

Statement of the Case.

the statement of De Walt to that effect. He recognized the
handwriting of the entry of the meeting at which the dividend
was declared as being that of a lady cousin of De Walt; and
testified that, according to the best of his information, the
entry was written at the house of De Walt and not at the
bank; that he never examined the book of certificates of
shares, or any other entry or any othez book, with reference
to the shares; that he had no knowledge of the insolvent condition of the bank, and was assured by De Walt that the bank
was doing a large business and making money, and that the
shares were a profitable investment; that to the best of his
recollection he had not sworn that the bank was in good condition on January 1, but, as one of the directors, he attested a
sworn statement of its condition, which was verified by the
president; that at the time the dividend was declared, he was
of the belief that the president had the right to set apart from
the profits of the bank such an amount as would represent the
dividend which might be declared; that he paid no further
attention to it after that; and that he was not aware that the
bank was then insolvent and not in a -condition to pay its
debts, nor aware, at the time of the suspension of the bank,
that there was less than $100 in currency on hand.
At the close of the evidence, the court refused to submit
the cause to the jury, to which refusal the defendant excepted. The court then instructed -the jury that, under the
evidence of the defendant himself, as well as under the testimony for him, he was estopped from denying his ownership
of the 50 shares; and that, inasmuch as he bad not repaid the
$1250 of dividend to the bank, but had paid it to De Walt, he
had not refunded that amount in the manner in which. he
should have done. The court thereupon instructed the jury to
find a verdict for $5000, the par value of 50 shares at $100
per share, and interest on such par value at the rate of ten
per cent per annum from the date of the demand for payment
by the plaintiff, together with $1150 dividend on the 70 shares
of stock. The defendant excepted to that instruction. The
defendant then asked the court to give seven several instructions, which were refused, and to each refusal the defendant
excepted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The defendant then moved for a new trial, which was
denied by the court, in an opinion reported in 34 Fed. Rep.
124. The ground of the denial of the motion for a new trial
was stated by the court in its opinion to be, that the defendant was chargeable with notice of the transfer of the 50 shares
to him, he having acted as vice-president and cashier during
the time when those shares were transferred to him; that any
investigation of the books of the bank would have led to the
discovery that he was a stockholder to the extent of the 50
shares in question; that, when he was 'informed of the dividend of January 2, all he did was to pay the $1250 to De
Walt, who, he supposed, was the owner of the shares; and
-that he did not return the money to the bank.
Xr. T. ff Patterson for plaintiff in error. .Mr. C. S.
Thomas and Xk. C. C. Parsons were on the brief.
• The first assignment of error is based upon the refusal of the
court to permit the said cause to go to the jury, and instructing
them to find a verdict against the plaintiff in error, and that the
plaintiff in error was estopped from denying the ownership of
the 50 shares of stock standing in his name upon the books of
the bank. Shares of stock in a corporation subject their owners
to individual liability. The ownership of it is not therefore,
necessarily beneficial, but may impose liabilities which are
greater than the advantages arising from its possession, and
hence, in the transfer of corporate stock, which necessarily
carries with it all the responsibilities attaching to the ownership, there is no presumption of acceptance. It is especially
clear that, where an attempt is actually made to enforce the
liability .of the transferee, no presuription will prevent his
right to refuse the transfer. Cartmell's Case, L. R. 9 Oh. 691;
Robinson v. LZane, 19 Georgia, 337; Skowh egan ffan v. Cutler,
49 Maine, 315. In all cases, however, in which the transfer
of the stock has originally been made without the knowledge
and consent of the transferee, he has the right to repudiate
the transaction, providing he has not already confirmed it.
-x parte Hennessey, 2 Macn. & Gord. 201; Webster v. Upton,
91 UT. S. 65; Turnbull v. Payson, 95 U. S. 418; -'ey8er v.
Hitz, 133 IT. S.-38.

FINN v. BROWN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The transfer of stock to a person upon the books of a company is not sufficient in itself to make him an owner of the
same and subject to the liabilities thereof, unless he shall
have done something which shall constitute an acceptance of'
the transfer, or which estops him to deny his ownership.
Tripp v. Appleman, 35 Fed. Rep. 19; Turnbull v. Payson,
supra. What will amount to an acceptance in the transfer of
stock is a question of fact not as yet regulated by any general
rules of law. Pim's Case, 3 DeG. & Sm. 11; Sanger v. lUpton,
91 U. S. 56.
In the transfer of personal property - and corporate stock
is personal property and subject to all the general rules of law
regulating it - it may be safely said: There is no acceptance
unless the transferee has exercised his option to receive or
reject the property transferred, or has done something which
will operate to deprive him of his option. Gillman v.' E1l,.
36 N. H. 311, 320; Shepherd v. Pressey,32 N. . 55; _M4esser v.
Woodman, 22 N. H. 172, 181; S. C. 53 Am. Dec. 241; Belt v.
Marriott,9 Gill, 331; Clark v. Tucker, 2 Sandford, (N. Y.) 157.
In the light of these authorities, it is very clear that the
plaintiff in error should have been allowed to go to the jury
with the defence which he had made. That defence involved
questions of fact, of"the truth of which it was the sole judge.
Commissioners of -Marion County v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278, 284;
Pawlingv. United States, 4 Cranch, 219, 222; Chicago, Rock
Island &c. Railway v. Lewis, 109 Illinois, 120, 124; Lord v.
Pueblo Smelting & Refuning Co., 12 Colorado, 390.
The second assignment is based upon the error of the Circuit Court in instructing the jury that under the evidence of
the defendant, as well as the testimony of the defence, the
defendant was estopped from denying the ownership of the
stock in controversy, (which has been discussed,) and that,
inasmuch as he had repaid the $1250 in dividends, not to the
bank, but to Frank W. De Walt, he did not refund the amount
thereof in the manner which he should have done - in other
words, that he should have paid the $1250 to the bank instead
of to Frank W. De Walt. This was fallacious.
Immediately upon the declaration of a dividend by the
VOL. cxi.I-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

directors of a company, it becomes a debt due and payable
from the company to the stockholders. Zing v. Paterson&
Hfudson, River Railroad,5 Dutcher (29 N. J. Law) 82, 504;
"tarek v. Eastern Railroad,43 N. H. 515; Foote, Appellant,
22 Pick. 299; Fwcett v. Laurie, 1 Drew. & Sm. 192. The
$1250 in question was a 25 per cent dividend upon the 50
shares of stock here involved. This dividend, as soon as it
was declared, became the property of the owner of that stock
at the time of declaring thd dividend. The court below instructed the jury that this should have been paid to the bank,
and that when Finn failed to repay it to the bank he did not
return it in the proper manner. Certainly the bank was not
the owner of this stock, nor could it be the owner of its own
stock under the National Banking Law, save as security for
a preexisting debt. If it was not the owner of the stock, it
Had no more right to the dividend than any stranger.
It -was urged at the trial in the court below, and accepted
by the presiding judge as the law, that the 50 shares of stock
having been transferred upon the stock books as above described, and standing in the name of the defendant in error
upon the stubs at the time of his election; he would be estopped
from denying their ownership and would be conclusively presumed to be the owner of the same because he had accepted
the office of director.
In Morse on Banks and Banking, p. 117, it is said, referring
to the statutory prerequisite for qualification as director:
"This regulation, however, simply prescribes the requisite qualification for his election to the office. If a person not thus
qualified is elected, and seeks to enter upon the office without
qualifying by the purchase of the requisite number of shares,
he may be ousted by legal process, but his acting as a director
will not make him in any manner liable foe this number of
shares. Neither can he be regarded either at law or in equity,
or for any purpose, as the constructive -owner of them. His
entering upon the enjoyment of the office does not in any case
estop him from alleging his non-ownership of the requisite
number of shares to qualify him for the position." By how
much the stronger is the rule to be applied when the director

FINN v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

shall have qualified himself, in fact, by the purchase of 20
shares in addition to those upon which this constructive liability is sought to be enforced.
The same rule has been laid down with the same certainty
in England in Exjparte 3Iarqui8 of Abercorn, 4 DeG., F. & J.
95; Roney'8 Case, 4 DeG. J. & S. 426.,

There can be no question from the foregoing authorities,
that the mere acceptance of the office of director will not nonstitute one so accepting a shareholder in the company, in the
absence of an express agreement between him and the company that he will in fact become so; and it is no less true that
the only obligation-imposed upon the one so accepting is that
he shall, within a Teasonable time, in case he accepts and
enters upon the duties of his office,. qualify himself as a director by the purchase of the requisite number of shares..
Mr.
l
J. B. Henderson for defendant in error.

X7yt.Edward

0. Wolcott, .Atr. Joel F. Vaile and -Y. Henry F. May filed a
brief for same.
lMR. JUSTICE BLLTCTORD, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The contention on the part of the defendant is that the Circuit Court erred in not allowing the cause to go to the jury.
It is undoubtedly true, as contended by the defendant, that, as
the 50 shares of stock were transferred to him originally without his knowledge and consent, he had a right to repudiate the
transaction; but he is presumed to be the owner of the stock
when his name appears upon the books of the bank as such
owner, and the burden of proof is upon him to show that he
is in fact not the owner. Webster v. Upton, 91 U. S. 65, 72;
Turnbull v. Payson, 95 U. S. 418, 421; Keyser v. Hitz, 133
U. S. 138. We think it entirely clear, on the evidence, that
the defendant did not sustain such burden of proof; and that
there was no question thereon for the jury.
It is provided as follows, in regard to national banks, by
5146 of the IRevised Statutes: "Every director must, during

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

his whole term of service, be a citizen of the United States,
and at least three-fourths of the directors must have resided in
the State, Territory or district in which the association is
located, for at least one year immediately preceding their election, and must be residents therein during their continuance
in office. Every director must own, in his own right, at least
ten shares of the capital stock of the association of which he
is a director. Any director who ceases to be the owner of
ten shares of the stock, or who becomes in any other manner
disqualified, shall thereby vacate his place." Section 514*7
reads as follows: "Each director, when appointed or elected,
shall take an oath that he will, so far as the. duty devolves
on him, diligently and honestly administer the affairs of such
association, and will not knowingly violate, or willingly permit
to be violated, any of the provisions of this title, and that he
is the owner in good faith, and in his own right, of the number of shares of stock required by this title, subscribed by him,
or standing in his name on the books of the association, and
that the same is not hypothecated, or in any way pledged, as
security for any loan or debt. Such oath, subscribed by the
director making it, and certified by the officer before whom it
is taken, shall be immediately transmitted to the Comptroller
of the Currency, and shall be filed and preserved in his office."
The meaning of § 5146 is that every director must own in
his own right, during his whole term of service, at least 10
shares of the stock.; and that, if he does not own such 10
shares, he cannot become or continue a director. In the
absence of any proof on the subject, it is to be presumed that'
the defendant took the oath prescribed in § 5147, when he
was appointed, that he owned 10 shares of the stock. As he
was appointed a director and vice-president at least as early as
November 21, 1883, and acted as such from that time, and did
not purchase the 20 shares from Sours until December 12,
1883, he was violating the law during that interval, unless he
owned during that space of time at least 10 shares of the
stock; and if he took the oath prescribed by § 5147, he took
it untruly if he did not own when he took it 10 shares of the
stock. According to his own testimony, he was elected vice-

FINN v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

president on the 21st of November, and acted as such from
that time, and also from that time fulfilled the duties of
cashier of the bank, covering the period prior to December 12,
when he purchased the 20 shares from Sours. The only state
of facts consistent with the truth, according to the books of
the bank, is that he owned the 50 shares from October 29,
1883, the day those shares were transferred to him, and the
day before the records of the bank show that he was elected a
director. It would appear that those 50 shares may have
been transferred to him at par; and he paid a premium of $20
a share for the 20 shares which he purchased from Sours.
It is provided as follows by § 5210 of the IRevised Statutes:
"The president and cashier of every national banking association shall cause to be kept at all times a full and correct list
of the names and residences of all the shareholders in the
association, and the number of shares held by each, in the
office where its business is transacted. Such .list shall be
subject to the inspection of all the shareholders and creditors
of the association, and the officers authorized to assess taxes
under state authority, during business, hours of .each day in
which business may be legally transacted. A copy of such
list, on the first Monday of July of each year, verified by the
oath of such president or cashier, shall be transmitted to the
Comptroller of the Currency."
It was the duty of the defendant, as acting cashier, and in
the absence of any regular cashier, and of any other person
authorized to act as cashier, to cause to be kept, under § 5210,
the list of shareholders and of the number of their shares,
therein specified; and the conclusive presumption must be
that he kept such list and was cognizant of its contents. It
necessarily showed his ownership of the 50 shares. Irrespective of the general duties imposed by law upon the cashier
of a bank, or a person who acts as such cashier, the statute
imposed upon him, in the present case, the specific duty
mentioned in § 5210; and it must be presumed conclusively
that he knew, from the 21st of November, 1883, that the
books showed that he was a shareholder to the amount of the
50 shares. The instruction of the Circuit Court to that effect
was, therefore, proper.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In regard to the dividend of 25 per cent it was clearly
fraudulent and unlawful. The defendant did not get rid of
his liability for the $1250 by drawing his check for that sum
in favor of De Walt individually and handing the same to
De Walt. The money belonged to the bank, and ought to
have been restored to the bank. The dividend being unlawful, and the $1250 having been paid to the defendant by the
bank, by being transferred to his credit by the bank on its
books, it was not for him to take the place of the bank and
to pay the money to De Walt. Whatever might have been the
case if the dividend had been a lawful one and if the $1250
had been transferred by the bank to the credit-of the defendant through inadvertetice, the $1250 was no more the lawful
property of De Walt than if the 50 shares (10 of which had
been the property of De Walt) had not been transferred to
the defendant by the instruction of De Walt to Sours to *that
effect.
The various instructions asked by the defendant and refused,
were all of them predicated, in substance, on the assumption
that the conduct of the defendant and his connection with the
bank were not such as to estop him from denying his ownership
of the 50 shares of stock, and upon the alleged fact that the
defendant, by paying the $1250 to De Walt in respect of the
25 per cent dividend on the 50 shares, had freed himself from
his liability to repay such dividend to the bank.
No general rule can be laid down as to what will constitute,
in any particular case, an acceptance of the transfer of stock
or the equivalent thereof, in a case where the transferee is in
fact ignorant of the fact of transfer; but each case must be
decided on its own facts. In the present case, the defendant
testifies that on the 2d of January, 1884, when he was informed
of the 25 per cent dividend and of the transfer to his credit of
$1250 thereof, he at once repudiated the transaction and ordered
De Walt to transfer the 50 shares to his own name without
delay. But this was of no more effect than his drawing his,
check for the $1250 to the order of De Walt individually, and
handing it to IDe Walt. The defendant, as vice-president and
acting cashier of the bank, had the power himself to transfer

FINN v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

the 40 shares back to MoNany and the 10 shares back to De
Walt. He did not do so, but, knowing that the 50 shares had
been transferred to his credit and stood in his name upon the
books, he suffered the matter to remain in that shape for twenty
days, until the doors of the bank were closed. He states that
he did not go upon the jury until after the transaction which
resulted in the drawing of the check to the order of De Walt
for $1250. It was the defendant's duty, and he had the power,
himself to make the transfer upon the books of the bank,
TFitney v. Butler, 118 U. S. 655, 662; Richmond v. k-ons,
121 U. S. 27, 58; and it made no difference as to his power to
transfer, that the certificate for the 60 shares had not been
delivered to him. Pacific Niational Bank v. Eaton, 141 U. S.
227, 233. It appears by the evidence that the bank had a stock
register and a book of certificates of shares, and that a list of
stockholders and of transfers was kept in one of its books,
although it had no regular stock book.
The jury would not have been justified in holding the defendant not liable for the assessment on the 50 shares or for the
$1750 dividend. The dividend was undoubtedly fraudulent,
and the records of the bank were falsified in showing that the
defendant was present at the meeting at which the dividend
was declared. It was declared, probably, by De Walt himself
alone, for the purpose of showing a fictitious prosperity and of
concealing from the public and the directors the real condition of
the affairs of the bank. The defendant had had no previous
connection with banking business, and was deceived by De
Walt. But all this cannot relieve him from liability. The
statutes of the United States are explicit as to the necessary'
ownership of stock in a national bank by a director thereof,
and as to his taking an oath to that effect, and as to the keeping by the cashier of a correct list of the shareholders and of
the number of shares each of them holds; and it cannot be
held, with any safety to the interests of the public and of those
who deal with national banks, that a director, who also is vicepresident and acts as cashier, can shield himself from liability
by alleging ignorance of what appears by the books of which
he has charge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It has been held in England, that the fact that a person acts
as director will not of itself make him liable as a holder of the
number of shares required to qualify him to be a director,
-Marguls of AberCorn'8 Cae, 4 De G., F. & J. 78, 95, 110;
]?oney'8 Case, 4 De G., J. & S. 426; but we decide this case
on the fact that the defendant appeared by the books of the
bank to be the holder of the 50 shares prior to the time when he
became a director or vice-president, and prior to the time when
he began to act as cashier; and we hold that, acting in those
capacities down to the time when the doors of the bank were
closed, he must be presumed conclusively to have had knowledge, during that interval, of what the books of the bank showed
in regard to his holding the 50 shares; and that his action in
respect of the 25 per cent dividend, after he learned of it on
the 2d of January, 1884, was such as not to relieve him from
his liability for the $1250.
In some of the English cases cited, there was no requirement
that, in order to be a director, there should be ownership of a
specified number of shares. In the present case, the statute
required an ownership of at least 10 shares, to become or to
continue a director; and as the books of the bank showed that
60 shares were transferred to the defendant before he was
elected a director, and that those shares were in one certificate,
the defendant could not have been advised that he held 10
shares, without learning at the same time that he held 50 shares.
But, in view of the requirements before referred to, of the statute of the United States, no rule of law deduced from the English authorities can apply.
Judgment affrmned.

