SUN-FLOWER OIL COM[PANY v. WILSON.
Syllabus.

SUNFLOWER OIL COMPANY v. WILSON.
SAME ii. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
lXos. 122, 123. Argued and submitted December 15,1891.-

Decided January 4, 1892.

An oil company contracted with a railway company to purchase certain
rolling stock and lease .the same to- the railway company at an agreed
rental, the latter agreeing to purchase the same on or before a given day
and pay for it in cash, or if it should be unable to do so to turn It over
to the oil company, at th6 expiration of the contract, in good order and
condition. It was further agreed that freights earned by the railway
by transportation for the oil company might be applied to the payment
of the rental and of the purchase money. The railway company was insolvent and, before the expiration of the contract, its mortgage bondholders had proceedings instituted in equity for the foreclosure of their
mortgage, in which W. was appointed receiver. The receiver continued
to use the rolling stock. The oil company intervened, claiming to recover
from the receiver the balance of the purchase money, and to secure the
carrying out of the contract by the receiver, and the retention by it of
the amount of freights due from it, and their application to the payments of the rent and the purchase money. The receiver answered, declining to complete the contract, and averring that the rental had been
paid in full and that there was a balance due him for freight. He also
filed a cross-petition to recover the surplus. Held,
(1) That the contract provided that if the railway company became inable to pay its current debts in the ordinary course of business, it
should be released from its obligation on returning the property;
(2) That the receiver had the right to return the property, upon complying with the terms of the contract in respect thereto;
(3) That, notwithstanding the absence of a provision in the contract
forfeiting payments already made, in case of failure to complete •
the purchase, it was open to doubt whether an action at common
law would lie to recover such payments;
(4) That the dismissal of the intervening petition did not necessarily involve the dismissal of the cross-petition, and that the court might
do full justice between the parties;
(5) That the receiver was as much entitled to recover the money due
upon the contract made with the railway company as with himself;

OOTOBER" TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
(6) That as between the railway company and the receiver, the latter
was entitled to the money, subject to any valid set-off of the oil
company.

TH.E court stated the case as follows:
This was an intervening petition by the Sunflower Oil
Company to enforce the specific performance of a contract by
the railway company to purchase certain engines and cars
until a balance of $6732.15 claimed to be due should have
been paid and discharged; and a cross-petition by the receiver to recover freights earned, in'the sum of $10,258.86, in
excess of the rental of such engines and cars.
The case arises upon the following facts: In 1877 the
Mobile and Northwestern Railway Company, for the purpose
of raising money to build its road, executed a trust deed upon
all its property in the amount of $250,000, to secure a series
of bonds in that amount, to be negotiated. The railway company made early default in the payment of its interest upon
these bonds, but, notwithstanding its default, the bondholders
suffered the property to remain in its hands, and under the
uninterrupted control and management of the company, until
November 15, 1886, when the original bill in this case was
filed. During the continuance of such default, and in January, 1883, the president of the railway company contracted
with the Baldwin Locomotive Works for two locomotives at a
cost of $7600 each, to be completed in the autumn of that
year. Just preceding their completion, the only locomotive
the railway then had became permanently disabled, and
though the new locomotives ordered were nearing completion,
the company had no money, nor means of raising money, to
pay for them. In this strait, the bondholders being unwilling
to extend their assistance, appli cation was made to the Sunflower Oil Company -appellant, for the means necessary to
purchase the rolling stock,.and avert a total suspension of the'
company's business. Under these circumstances a contract
was executed, October 6, 1883, between the oil company and
the railway company to the following effect: The oil company
agreed to purchase from the Baldwin Locomotive Works two

SUNFLOWER OIL COMPANY v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

locomotives and tenders complete, named, respectively, La
Flour and Yazoo, at the price of $7600 each, and to invest the
further sum of $2400 in box and flat cars, and to lease the
same to the railroad to January 1, 1886, for $1408 per annum,
peyable in monthly instalments. This was exactly 8 per
cent upon the amount invested. The La Flour and the cars
were to be paid for by the oil company in cash, and were at
once to be and to continue its property until purchased by the
railway company in the manner hereinafter provided. The
Yazoo was to be purchaEad upon the obligation of the railway
company, payable in six months from date, guaranteed by the
mercantile firm of Fargason & Co. of :Memphis, which guaranty the oil company agreed to procure; and until payment
the title to the Yazoo was to remain in the Baldwin Locomotive Works. Should the railway company pay the obligation
at maturity, the title to the engine was to vest in it, but
should the same be paid by Fargason & Co. the title was to be
and remain in the Sunflower Oil Company until the railway
company should acquire title to it and the other property in the
manner hereinafter set forth. Should the railway company
promptly meet its obligation to the locomotive works for the
Yazoo, then the rents payable to the oil company were to be reduced to $800 per annum, payable -monthly. The railway company agreed to take all proper care of the rolling stock, and turn
the same over in good order to the oil company at the end of
the contract, "should said railroad company be then unable to
purchase the same, at the price hereinafter mentioned," and
agreed to use the same upon its line of road, and to turn thq
same over at the demand of the oil company, should it at any
time violate its agreement.
The railway company further agreed that it would, on or
before January 1, 1886, purchase all said property from the
oil company, and pay for it in cash at the cost price, and
should also have the right at any time before that date to purchase the whole by paying the cash price thereof, in which
event the contract for rent should immediately cease and determine, but the other terms of the contract were to remain
unimpaired. The railway company further agreed that it

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

would erect houses at several of its depots for the purpose of
receiving cotton seed in bulk for the oil company, and would
provide scales for weighing seed, and would haul seed in bulk
from various points along the line of its road for the oil company; that the agents of the railway company would weigh
the? cotton seed and purchase the same, if desired, free of cost
for any such services; that it would haul all sacks for the oil
company free of charge; that it would receive and haul all
freights for the oil company at the Mississippi River, opposite
Helena, free of charge for storage or commission; and that
the freight paid should be at reasonable rates to be fixed at
various times by the presidents of the two companies, but the
freight on seed in bulk was not to exceed $1.75 per ton, and
that on seed in sacks was not to exceed $2.00 per ton. It was
further agreed that the railway company would not haul cotton seed in bulk for any other corporation or person, nor permit its agents to purchase or pay'for cotton seed for any other
corporation or person, and that it would give all needed facilities
and preferences to the oil company to enable it to control all the
cotton seed along the line of its road, "as it now is, or as it may
be while this contract is in force." All freights earned were to
be credited on the rental of the property, and shpuld there remain a surplus after paying the rent, it was to remain in the
hands of the oil company and go as a credit upon the purchasemoney of said property; interest was to be allowed said railway company on said surplus at the rate of 8 per cent per
annum. The railway company was to furnish a monthly
statement of freights at the end of each month, while the contract continued, to be credited in the manner above stated.
The contract was to continue in force until January 1, 1886;
and on this day, January 1, 1886, a further contract was made
extending the time for one year from that date, for the purchase by the railway company of such engines and cars.
In November, 1886, Moses H. Katzenberger and others,
holders of a majority of the bonds, filed a bill in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi to enforce a sale of the property and franchises covered
by the trust deed, and praying for a receiver pending the pro-

SUNFLOWER OIL COMPANY v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

ceedings. Subsequently the bill was amended, and on December 16, 1886, Benjamin Wilson, the defendant and appellee in
this case, was appointed receiver of the company. waving
duly qualified the receiver took charge-of the road and began
to operate the same under the orders of the court, using the
rolling stock under an arrangement for that purpose. The
same day the receiver was appointed an order was made that
the receiver continue any existing contract for the purchas6
or use of the rolling stock then used on said road until, for
sufficient cause shown, such contract should be annulled. A
subsequent order permitted him to "make any change in the
contract heretofore existing" in relation to the rolling stock.
On February 14, 1887, the Sunflower Oil Company, appel.
lant, which was not a party to the original bill, interposed by
petition, setting up its contract with the railway company,
,alleging a balance due it of $6732.15 on the purchase of said
engines and cars, and praying that the receiver be required to
carry out the terms of said contract, by continuing to carry
freights for the appellant, and by allowing it to retain all
moneys due or to become due the receiver for such services,
as credits on such rental and purchase-money accounts, until
the full indebtedness of the railway company was discharged.
The receiver answered, denying that the railway company
had ever made any binding contract to purchase such rolling
stock, and that the contract was a contract of rental with a
mere option to buy; that appellant had retained of the
freights earned by said railway, the sum of $10,258.86, in
excess of the agreed rental of the property, and for the recovery of the same, filed his answer in the nature of a cross-petition. The court was of the opinion that the relation between
the parties was one of lessor and lessee, and decreed that the
oil company pay to the receiver the amount above named,
being the excess of the earnings of the road in the hands of
the oil company over the amounts due for rents. From that
decree the first appeal was taken. At the same time an account was taken of the amount due the receiver for the surplus of freights earned by the railroad while in his hands, over
the rents due the oil company during the same period, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

resulted in a further decree against the oil company, in favor
of the receiver, for $3729.82. From that decree the second
appeal was taken to this court.
.Y.
lant.

7-ohn W. Cutrer and .Mr. William D. Cutrer for appel-

The receiver, appointed at the suit of the bondholders, after
the death of the trustee, and acting for their benefit, did not
have conferred on him any powver to sue for, nor to recover,
property and assets not covered by the terms of the trust deed;
and earnings of a railroad company, though named in the
trust deed, are not covered by it, and do not accrue for the
benefit of the creditors secured thereby, while the railroad
property remains in the possession of the mortgagor. _Feedman's Saving & Trust Co. v. Shepherd, 127 T.. S. 494.
Although the power to sue for this class of railroad property
or assets may have been sought to be conferred on the receiver
by the order making the appointment, we contend that the
effort was vain, and that the receiver did not acquire thereby
a legal right to sue, nor any authority to recover. The earnings of a railway company sufficient to provide for the operation of its road and the surplus belong to the company, subject- to is sole control; Gilman v. Ill. & -Miss. Tel. Co., 91
U. S. 603; and those who receive any part of such, earnings
b6fore the appointment of a receiver, are not bound to account
for them, to any mortgage bondholder, nor to any person
suing for him, or in his behalf. Galveston Railroadv. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459.
The decisions upon contracts of this character are numerous
in England and America; Many recent cases bold that where
it is apparent that the contract, though nominally a hiring, is,
in reality, a conditional sale, the courts will so regard it, looking to the substance rather than the form. Benjamin on Sales,
§§ 393, 425-433; H-ervey v. R. I Locomotive Works, 93 U. S.
664. The intention of the parties, and the practical construction placed by them upon their contracts, prevail in every
instance over the mere language of the instrument. -Donahoe

SUNFLOWEIR OIL .COMPANY v. WILSON.
Argument for Appellant.

v. Kettrell, 1 Clifford, 141; Irwin v. United States, 16 How.
523 ; Up.ited States v. Gibbons, 109 U. S. 200 ; -Mobile &c. By.
Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 592; Har7kness v. Reussell, 118- U. S.
663 ; Toplif v. Toplif, 122 U. S. 122; District of Columbia v.
Gallagher,124 U. S. 505.
This being true, the contract stands before the court, as
stated, as, in effect, a conditional sale, with a right of rescission on the part of the vendor, in case the purchaser shall fail
in payment of the purchase money. The vendor, however,
has never sought rescission, but by its suit insists that the purchaser shall comply with and complete its obligation to purchase, by the continued making of payments which it is
entirely able to make and to meet.
There is a manifest distinction, well stated by the authorities, between a hiring or lease, with the privilege or option, to
the lessee to purchase, and possession, as in the present instance, under a contract of conditional sale, or unconditional
undertaking to purchase. The language of the contract is
plain and unaccompanied by any limitation of the obligation
or liability assumed. "The said railroad company further
agrees that it will, on or before the said 1st day of January,
1886,yurchase all of saidpropertyfrom saidoil company, and
pay for it in cash the cost price thereof." This clause immediately succeeds the clause from which counsel have evolved
their conception of the option contended for, as though it
were, thereby, purposely intended to exclude from the contract and wholly preclude any such doubt or hypothesis as
that they assert.
Proceeding upon the hypothesis that the contract cannot be
construed as an option, without force as against the railway
company, but is, instead, an obligation euforcible on the demand of the oil company, we submit that the means adopted
by the parties to effect the discharge of such obligation, is.
exactly in the line of what the law itself would have provided
if no contract had been made. The railway company had
ample authority to pledge its earnings, and to execute a contract, hypothecating a particular portion of them for the discharge of appellant's claim. M
Mississippi Rev. Code (1880) c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

38, -§ 1033 Jones on Railway Securities, % 114-120 ; Teal v.
Walker, 111 U. S. 24:2; Sage v. Xemvpis & -LittleRook Railway Co., 125 U. S. 361; -freedman'sSavings Co. v. Shepherd,
127 U. S. 501. The pledge was intended to cover only enough
to meet the actual cash cost price of the rolling stock. And
when the receiver was appointed he took the road, its property, including under the express order of the court this rolling stock and its income, subject to that pledge, and he was
bound to respect it.
As to the cross-petition, there are no authqrities which will
warrant retaining it for the rendition of a personal money
judgment, or that will sustain such a judgment when rendered,
where the court, on final hearing on the merits, dismisses the
original bill, refusing to grant any relief upon it. The rule in
Mississippi is the same as that established by this court; and
there can be no exception in principle or practice, engrafted on
it, that can be made to embrace and save the judgment i-,
this cause. Cross v. Valle, 1 Wall. 1; Dows v. Chicago, I
Wall. 108; Gilmer v. Felhour, 45 Mississippi, 627; Jacks v.
Bridewell, 51 Mississippi, 881; Belcher v. Wilkerson, 54- Mississippi, 617; Wright v. Frank, 61 Mississippi, 32.
_Mr. Hfolmes Cummins and A&. Edward Aftayes, for appellee
submitted on their brief.
MR. JusTin- BRowm, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

(1) This case turns upon the construction of the contract of
October 6, 1883, between the Sunflower Oil Company and the
Mobile and Niorthwestern Railway Company, the substantial
provisions of which were that the oil company should purchase
of a manufacturer certain rolling stock, which it should lease
to the railway company at a rent equal to 8 per cent upon the
cost price, the latter agreeing to purchase the same of the oil
company on or before January 1, 1886, and pay for it in cash,
with a proviso that, in case it should be unable to purchase the
same, it should turn it over to the oil company in good order
and condition, at the expiration of the contract.

SUNFLOWEI

OIL COMPANY v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

There is no doubt of the general proposition-that mere inability to pay is no defence to the performance of a contract, or
to a promise to pay. A person making purchase of an article
is conclusively presumed to intend to pay for it, and to have
had his ability to pay in contemplation when he made the
purchase; and, if this proviso had not been inserted, no doubt
could have arisen regarding the proper interpretation of this
contract. But here was a contingency carefully introduced
into this contract, upon the happening .of which the railway
company was to be discharged of its obligation to -the oil company by returning to it the rolling stock in good order and
condition. We are bound to assume that this provision was
inserted for some purpose, and are bound to give it its proper
effect. At the time the contract was entered into, the railway
company was financially embarrassed; its only locomotive had
been crippled beyond repair; and it had neither money nor
credit with which to purchase another. In this extremity it
entered into negotiations with the oil company, which was
itself desirous of increasing its facilities for obtaining cotton
seed, and a monopoly of that article along the line of said
road. But in making the advance necessary to secure the
requisite amount of rolling stock, the oil company naturally
sought to protect itself in every possible way against loss.
This it -did, (1) By retaining to itself the title and ownership
of such rolling stock until the same should be fully paid for:
(2) By leasing it to the road at a rental equal to 8 per cent
upon the value of the property: (3) By retaining the freights
due the road for carriage of cotton seed, and crediting them,
first, upon the rent, and, second, upon the purchase price of
the property: (4) By providing for the return of the property
in good order and condition, in case the road was unable to
yurchae the same for cash by January 1, 1886, subsequently
extended to January 1, 1887. The last was a proviso doubtless inserted out of abundant caution, in order to put beyond
question the return of the property in case the road should
fail to pay for it in full before the expiration of the contract.
Under these circumstances, we find it difficult to give these
words any other than their ordinary meaning, viz., that if the
VOL. Cxi-L-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the- Court.

railway company became so deeply involved as to be unable to
pay its curreht debts in the ordinary course of business, it should
be released from its obligation upon returning the property.
In ordinary speech, a person is said to be unable to make a
purchase when he has neither money nor credit sufficient for
that purpose, though the entire value of his -assets may be
greater than the purchase price of the property. It is unnecessary to decide, however, .whether the proviso in question
created a mere option, or whether anything less than the total
insolvency of the company constituted an inability to purchase within the meaning of the contract, since the appointment of a receiver at the suit of bondholders seems to be
most conclusive evidence of inability to carry out its contracts,
and, indeed, to have been the very contingency contemplated
in the proviso. It is unnecessary even to decide whether this
inability to purchase could be asserted at all by the railway
company, since the defence in this case is set up by the receiver
acting in the. interest of all the creditors, and claiming that, in
view of the insolvency of the company, the oppressive character of the coitract and the greatly reduced price at which he
could secure similar property, payment ought not to be compelled from the funds in his hands.
The receiver did not simply by virtue of his appointment
become liable upon the covenants and agreements of the railway company.

High on Receivers, § 273; Boyt v. Stoddaid,

2 Allen, 442. Upon taking possession of the property, he was
entitled to a reasonable time to elect whether he would adopt
this contract and make it his own, or whether he would insist
upon the inability of the company to pay, and return the property in good order and condition, paying, of course, the stipulated rental for it so long as he used it. Turner v. Riohardson, 7 East, 335; Comm onwealtA v. Franklin Insurance Co.,
115 Mass. 278; Sparhawc v. Terkes, ante, 1. Of course, if be
elects to take property subject to a condition, he is bound to
perform the condition before he can obtain title to the property.
He may, however, decline to assume this obligation, and return
the property to the purchaser, upon complying with the terms
of the contract with respect to such return. The case is not

SUNFLOWER OIL COI-PA TY v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

unlike that of Expres8 Gompany v. Railroad Company, 99
U. S. 191. In that case the express company agreed to loan
the railroad company $20,000 upon its notes, to be expended
in repairs and equipments. In consideration of this the railroad company agreed to provide the necessary privileges and
facilities for the transaction of all the business of the express
company over its road; and to charge a certain sum for transportation, which was to be credited monthly toward the payment of the loan, with a proviso that if the loan were not paid
within a year, the contract should continue in force for a further period, or until the whole had been repaid. A mortgage
upon the road having been foreclosed, the receiver repudiated
the contract, forbade the express company from further using
the cars of the railroad company, unless upon conditions
whereby the contract was virtually surrendered or ignored,
and the express company was compelled to abandon the road,
although the money loaned, with a portion of the interest
thereon, was still due and unpaid. It filed a bill for specific
performance, alleging that the railroad company having conveyed away its property, and being in part insolvent, the violation of the contract could not be compensated by any damages that might be recovered at law. This court dismissed the
bill, holding that,-as the plaintiff had no lien, and the contract
was simply for the transportation of persbns and property, the
court could not require either h specific performance by the
receiver, or the satisfaction of the plaintiff's demand by money;
and that the express company had, therefore, no standing in a
court of equity.
The case of Coe v. lVew Jrsey Midland Railway, 27 N. J.
Eq., (12 0. E. Green,) 37, is also instructive in this connection.
In that case, the Rhode Island Locomotive Works Company
entered into an agreement with the railway company to furnish the latter certain locomotives and tenders, as upon lease,
but with the agreement that, upon payment in full of the rent
reserved, they should become the property of the railway.
The rent was payable in instalments, for which the company
gave its notes; at the time of the appointment of the receiver
there was due for rent about $120,000; and the locomotives

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opiniomi of the Court.

were then in possession of the receiver and in use upon the
road. Petitioners based their claim to relief upon the ground
that the receiver requested them to leave the locomotives in his
possession, for use on the road,,he guaranteeing to keep them in
good order, and promising to apply for authority to pay the
claim.

In defence, the receiver alleged a notice by bondhold-

ers not to pay the rent or deliver the certificates therefor,
which had been issued upon his application, because the property was not worth the amount agreed to be paid, and it was
not for the interest of the trust that the rent should be paid.
It was held that petitioners had no equity arising from the
conduct of the receiver to have the contract specifically performed, without regard to the advantage or disadvantage of
the trust fund; that although they appeared to be willing up
to the time they were warned not to do so, to pay for the
property according to the agreement, it might have been an
improvident act on their part; that the fact that the receiver
had applied for leave to issue the certificates to pay the rent
did not bind them; and that the court would not grant the
prayer of the petitioners until satisfied that it was for the
interest of the trust that it should be done; but that the petitioners would be allowed just compensation for the use of the
property while held by the receiver.
(2) Notwithstanding the absence of a provision in the contract forfeiting payments already made, in case of failure to
complete the purchase, it is open to doubt whether an action
at common law would lie to recover such payments. The
courts of Massachusetts, Maine and Illinois hold that partial
payments are forfeited; while those of Connecticut, Michigan,
Minnesota and Georgia hold that, upon equitable grounds,
the buyer is entitled to a return of the money. There seems
to be no doubt, however, that a court of equity may require
the return of the money paid, less the amount of any damage
sustained to the property, and a reasonable compensation for
the use of the same, particularly if there be a clause in the
contract providing that upon a certain contingency the property shall be returned to the seller.
(3) Under the circumstances of this case, and in view of the

SUNFLOWER OIL COMPANY v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

fact that a court of equity takes jurisdiction of all questions
with respect to this property as ancillary to its jurisdiction
over the main case, the dismissal of the intervening petition
does not necessarily involve a dismissal of the cross-petition,
and the court, having jurisdiction of the entire proceeding,
may proceed to do complete justice between the parties.
(4) In the view we have taken of this case, it is unnecessary
to consider whether the manifestly illegal stipulations in this
contract had the effect of vitiating the entire agreement. It
bears evidence upon its face of having been extorted from the
necessities of the railway compafiy, and contains many provisions which fail to commend it to the consideration of a
court of equity.
There is no practical distinction between these two appeals.
By his order of appointment, the receiver was authorized to
take possession of the money and assets and all other rights
and property of the railway company, wherever the same
might be found, including its equitable interests, things in
action, and other effects; and he is as much entitled to recover
moneys due upon contracts made with the railway company
as with himself. No question arises with regard to the rights
of other creditors, as was the case in Galveston 1ailroad v.
Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459; American Bridge Co. v. Hleidelbaoh,
94 U. S. 798; and Gilman v. Telegraph Co., 91 U. S. 603;
and as between the railway company and the receiver the
latter was entitled to the money, subject to any valid set-off
of the oil company.
There was no error in the disposition of either of these two
cases by the court below, and both decrees are, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JVSTIcn L iR
was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

