OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

682

Statement of the Case.

and passed upon by the jury, and found in favor of the plaintiffs, was whether the re-appraisers "were controlled by some
outside influence, so that they didn't act their own judgment."
Judgment.afflined.

CLARK v. SJDWAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No.140.

Argued Jahuary 7,1892. -Decided

January 26,1892.

Persons who jointly purchase land to hold it for a rise in value are not partners but are tenants in common, and either party can sue the other at law
for reimbursement of allowances made by him on the joint accounit, without there having first been a final settlement and the striking of a balance.
In considering the amount necessary for the jurisdicton of this court on a
writ of error, not only is the amount of the judgment against the plaintiff in error to be regarded, but, in addition, the amount of a counter
claim which he would have recovered, if his contention setting it up had
been sustained.
It was hell that the plaintiff in error had no right to complain of the action
of the court below in allowing a remittitur of $2700.75 on a verdict of
$6700.75; or in allowing the jury to fill up, in open court, the amount of
a verdict which they had. signed and sealed, leaving a blank for the
amount.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

This is an action at law, brought October 13, 1880, by
Leverett B. Sidway, a citizen of Illinois, for the use of John
R. Lindgren, against Ezekiel Clark, a citizen of Iowa, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Illinois. The declaration claimed $8000. It alleged that
on the 12th- of August, 1872, one Cleaver and his wife, by a
warranty deed, conveyed to the plaintiff certain land in Cook
County, Illinois, subject to a trust deed executed by Cleaver
and wife to one Gallup, to secure the payment of $8000 in five
years from date, with interest at ten per cent per annum, in
which- warranty deed it was stated that Sidway assumed and

COARK v. SIDWAY.
Statement of the Case.

agreed to pay said debt to Gallup and to hold Cleaver harmless therefrom; that the deed with such recital and agreement
was accepted by Sidway; 'that on the 23d of November, 1875,"
Sidway and his wife conveyed to Clark an undivided one-half
interest in the land, subject, as recited in the deed, to the trust
deed to Gallup ; that in the deed to Clark the latter undertook
and promised, as part of its consideration, that he would, and
that he did, in and by the deed, assume and agree to pay onehalf of the note for $8000, with interest thereon from August
12, 1872, and would save Sidway harmless therefrom, as well
as from ore-half of any further liability Sidway mighl ber
under, through the provisions contained in said trust deed;
that Clark took and received the deed; that on the'3d of July,
1875, the note for $8000, with interest, became due and payable; that on the 12th of October, 1880, Clark neglected to
pay the one-half of the note with interest, or any part of it,
and did not save Sidway or keep him harmless -from the payment of the note or interest; and that, by means thereof,
Clark promised to pay to Sidway, when' requested, the onehalf of the note,: to wit, $4000, and interest thereon from
August 12, 1872. There was also a count containing the common counts for $8000. alleging an indebtedness on October
12, 1880.
Clark put in a special demurrer to the first count, setting
forth several grounds of demurrer, and pleaded the general
issue to the common counts and a statute of limitations of five
years. Afterwards, he pleaded the general issue to the first
count, also a want of consideration, and the fact that the deed
to him from Sidway was intended by the parties as a security
to Clark for $4000 due from Sidway to him, and that Clark
did not purchase the premises in question otherwise than for.
the purpose of holding the deed *by way of mortgage and
security for such indebtedness. He further pleaded, as to
both counts, a set-off and a counter-claim for moneys due from
Sidway to him, to his damage $10,000.
Issue was joined by replications to these pleas and by a
rejoinder to the replications.
The case was tried by a jury in November, 1885, but it failed

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

to agree. The case was again tried by a jury, in March, 1888,
and a verdict was rendered finding the issue for the plaintiff, and
assessing his damages at $6700.75. A motion was made for
a new trial, and in May, 1888, a judgment was entered which
stated that, the court intimating an opinion on such motion,
the plaintiff, by leave of the court, entered a remittitur of
$2700.75 on the verdict, and that the court thereupon overruled
the motion for a new trial and awarded judgment for $4000
damages. A judgment was entered for the plaintiff for $4000,
being the amount of the verdict less the remittitur and for
costs. To review this judgment, which is entitled as in favor
of Sidway for the use of John IR. Lindgren, the defenidant-has
brought a writ of error.
There is a bill of exceptions. It appears therefrom that
Sidway contended that he and Clark purchased the land in
question on joint account, in equal shares, for resaler at a profit,
upon an agreement to contribute equally to the purchasemoney, interest and taxes; and that Clark maintained the
contrary.
Clark prayed the \court to charge the jury that, if they be-lieved from the evidence that Sidway and Clark purchased
the land in question on joint account, in equal shares, for
resale at a profit, upon an agreement to contribute equally to
the purchase-money and the taxes and interest, such understanding would constitute the parties copartners in such land
speculation, and, in the absence of a final settlement and the
striking of a balance, neither party could be sued at law by
the other for reimbursement of advances made by him upon
the joint account. The court refused so to charge, and Clark
excepted to such refusal.
Clark also prayed the court to charge the jury that, if they
found from the evidence that the Cleaver note of $8000, mentioned in the assumption clause of the deed of November 23,
1875, was held, at the time of the commencement of the suit,
by the Illinois Trust and Savings Bank, and was not taken up
or purchased by Sidway until some time in 1883, after the
commencement of the suit, up to which time said bank was
its holder for value, as collateral security to the demand note

CLARK v. SIDWAY.
Statement of the Case.

of Sidway, of which it was also holder for value, such subsequent payment or purchase of the note would confer upon
Sidway no cause of action in this suit to recover the amount
so paid. The court refused so to charge, and Clark excepted
to such refusal.
The cburt charged the jury that there Was nothing in the
point that the parties were partners, in the transaction as ta
the land; and that, if they were joint purchasers of the land
for the purpose of holding it for a rise in value, they were not
partners, but were tenants in common, having an equal undivided interest, if their interest was equal. The court also
charged the jury that, although Sidway had paid off the
Cleaver note of $8000 while it 'was held by the Illinois Trust
and Savings Bank, by giving his own note to that bank therefor, the bank taking his note as an investment, the court saw
nothing that would prevent Sidway from recovering, and
added: "In short, I see nothing in the case anywhere to. prevent the plaintiff from recovering what he claims here -about
$6700 and some cents -provided the jury find the main issue
in the case in favor of the plaintiff- that is, that Mr. Clark
assented to become with the plaintiff a joint purchaser, or
purchaser on joint account, of the property in question...
If at any time you find that the understanding between
the parties was that the defendant was to become an equal
purchaser with the plaintiff, having an equal right in this
property, and if he did so become an equal purchaser at any
time in this property and liable to pay one-half of the purchase
price, I see nothing in the case to prevent the plaintiff from
recovering from the defendant that portion of the purchasemoney which the d~fendant was under obligation to pay, and
which he did not pay, and which the plaintiff was under obligation to pay, and did pay on the dofendant's account." Clark
excepted severally to the portions of the charge above indicated.
In addition to the above specific exceptions, it is stated in
the bill of exceptions, after setting forth at length the charge,
which covers six printed pages of the record, that Clark "excepted to the said charge as given to the jury.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

The jury were directed by the court, by consent of parties;
to sign and seal their verdict, if they found one, and to separate, if they saw fit, and return such verdict at the opening of
court upon the following day. On the following day, at the
opening of court, the jury returned into court, after having
separated during the previous night, and rendered a verdict in
the following form, dated the day before, and signed by the
twelve jurors: "We, the jury, find for the plaintiff and assess
the damage at six thousand seven hundred dollars and seventyfive cents," save that no amount was mentioned as the amount
of damages found, but a blank was left therefor. Thereupon
the court told the jury that they should have inserted the
amount of damages in the verdict, and that they could retire
and find the amount. The foreman of the jury then stated,
in the presence and with the concurrence of the other jurors,
that the jury had agreed upon the amount, which was the
sum testified to by the plaintiff, about six thousand and seven.hundred dollars, but that none of the jurors were able to
remember the precise figures, and for that reason they had
decided to defer inserting the amount until they should 'come
into cout; and they requested the court to give them the
amount, as testified to by the plaintiff, from the court's minutes, and they would insert it in their verdict. Thereupon,
the court, from its minutes, gave the jury the amount as testified to by the plaintiff as being the balance due him, and the
foreman of the jury, in open court and without retiring, inserted such amount in the verdict, with the consent and concurrence of each and all the jurors. The court inquired of
the jury if the verdict so filled up was the verdict of the jury
one and all, and each and all of the jury answered that it was
their verdict, and it was received and ordered to be recorded,
and the jury was discharged. The bill of exceptions then
goes on to say: "No exception was taken at the time to the
jury filling out the blank in the manner they did, or to the
receipt of the verdict. The recollection of the judge who
tried the cause is, that the counsel for the defendant were not
in court when the jury gave their verdict, but that afterwards,
on the same day, they came into court, made a motion for a

CLARK v. SIDWAY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

new trial, and among other things took exception to the manner, as above stated, in which the blank for damages was filled
and the verdict received, which exceptions were allowed by
the court."
On the next day, the defendant filed a written motion for a
new trial, one ground of which was the action of the court in
aiding the memory of the jury in regard to the testimony, in
order that the blank for the plaintiff's damages might be filled.
The bill of exceptions states that, after argument upon the
motion, on both sides, the court announced its intention of
overruling the motion, provided the plaintiff would remit all
damages mentioned in the verdict, in excess of $4000; that
such remittitur was made; and that the defendant excepted
to the action of the court.
Mr. 0. C. Nourse (with whom was Mr. George L. Paddock
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
Upon plaintiff's theory of the case, and upon his evidence
all the elements of a partnership were involved in the transaction. It was a trading venture in the which, each party was
to furnish half the capital, each was to have an equal share in
the profits, and each to share equally in the losses. Sidway's
letter of October 15, 1872, contemplates a mere trading venture, with more to follow. The payments to be made and the
amounts to be expended were indefinite. The sale of the
property might be in parcels. The jury fdund their verdict on
the statement of Sidway. If it was true that the purchase
was made on the joint account of the parties in 1872, and the
title Was held by Sidway in trust until November, 1875, and
was held in trust for Sidway until the final disposition of the
property, in 1879, then it was a copartnership in which Sidway must account for the profits received in a proper action.
N-a'oll v. Ogden, 29 Illinois, 323 ; . 0. 81 Am. Dec. 311;
Pierce v. Shippee, 90 Illinois, 371; Kuhn v. Newman, 49
Iowa, 424; Remington v. Allen, 109 Mass. 47; Beauregard
v. Ca8e, 91 U. S. 134. "Whenever it appears that there is a
community of interest in the capital stock, and also a com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

munity of interest in the profit and loss, then the case is one
of actual partnership between themselves and as to third persons." Berthold v. Goldsmith, 24 How. 536.
-Mr. John N. Jewett for defendant in error.
It is respectfully submitted that this court has no jurisdiction of the writ of error in this case, and for the reason that the
judgment upon which that writ of error has been sued out, is
for a sum less than the amount necessary to give to this court
jurisdiction to inquire into the record or the err.ors of it.
Thompson v. Butler, 95 U. S. 694; Hiltan v. Dickinson, 108
U. S. 165; Opelika City v. Daniel, 109 U. S. 108; Ala. Gold
lfe Ins. Co. v. ffichols, 109 U. S. 232; Dow* et al. v. John8on, 110 U. S. 223; FirstNat. Bank v. Redick,l 110 U. S. 224;
Paciic P. Tel. Cable Co. v. O'Connor, 1-28 U. S. 394; North
Pao. Railroad Co. v. Austin, 135 U. S. 315, 318.
-MR. JUsTIcE BLATCnFORD,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
A motion is made to dismiss the writ of error, on the
ground that the judgment against Clark is for only $4000,
and that, therefore, this court has no jurisdiction of the case.
But we are of opinion that the amount involved is not only
the amount of the judgment against Clark, which he seeks to
get rid of by this writ of error, but is, in addition, the amount
which he claims as a counter-claim against Sidway, and which
he would have recovered if his contention had been sustained.
The aggregate is over $5000, and we, therefore, have jurisdiction.
As to the merits, the case was fairly put to the jury on the
,disputed question of fact as to whether Clark became a joint
purchaser with Sidway of the land in question; and the jury
have found against Clark on that question.
There was no error in the charge of the court in the particulars excepted to, or in the refusals to charge the matter asked
by Clark. The case shows that the jury must have found,
and were warranted in finding, that Sidway made the purchase

CLARK v. SIDWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

for the joint benefit of himself and Clark; that Clark paid to
Sidway $2031.40 toward the purchase-money, which was ths
amount thereof over and above the incumbrance which was
assumed; that Clark afterwards paid to Sidway $450 on account of expenses, interest and taxes, in carrying the property ;
that afterwards Sidway paid the interest on the .incumbrance
and the taxes, until he had paid more than Clark paid; that
the incumbrance matured July 1, 1875; that, -Sidway being
an officer of the Illinois Trust and Savings Bank, that bank
purchased the Cleaver note and held it as collateral' security
for Sidway's personal note for the same amount, with authority to sell such collateral to pay the obligation of Sidway;
that, in 1879, the bank sold th6 collateral, and it was purchased
by Lindgren; that the net result of the sale 'was credited on
Sidway's note, and the balance of that note was settled by
Sidway, as between him and tho bank, after this suit was commenced, and Sidway's individual note was paid; that, subsequently to the sale of-the collateral note, and in July, 1879, the
original incumbrance was foreclosed by a sale of the land, made
by the trustee in the trust deed; that at the sale the land was
bought by Lindgren, and the proceeds were credited on the
Cleaver note, leaving a large amount unpaid, and a large obligation resting upon Sidway, growing out of tbe'purchase of the
land, one-half of which had been assumed by Clark in the
deed to him executed by Sidway and wife; that that deed had
been recorded by Sidway and forwarded to Clark, who received and kept it; that it contained the before-mentioned
assumption by Clark and agreement to pay one-half of the
incumbrance, and the interest thereon from August 12, 1872,and one-half of any further liability which Sidway might be,
under in consequence of the provisions of the trust deed ; -and
that the foregoing mattdrs were all'consummated more than a
year before this suit was brought.
This suit is founded upon the assumption clause in ther deed
from Sidway and wife to Clark. The note of Cleave remained, when the suit was brought, in the ownership of Lindgren; and the action was, therefore, properly brought in the
name of Sidway, for the use of Lindgren. The theory put
'VOL. oXi-44

1690

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

before the jury by Clark, and not sustained by their verdict,
was that he had no connection with the purchase of the land;
that the moneys which he advanced to Sidway -were merely
loans to the latter; and that the deed from Sidway and wife
was only security for such loans.
The transaction between Sidway and Clark, of their joint
purchase of the land, did not constitute a copartnership iai
respect thereto. It was a single, special adventure on joint
account, involving the payment in equal proportions of designated sums of money. It was a mere community of interest
in the property, and the agreement to share the profits and
losses on the sale of the land did not create a partnership.
The parties were only tenants in common, and the action at
law would lie. Jordan v. Soule, 79 Maine, 590; Gwinneth v.
ThoMP8o0n, 9 Pick. 31; Rlaven v. 7Yrehdgarten, 19 Illinois, 91;
Foiwler v. Fowler, 50 Connecticut, 256; -Dickinson v. Williams,
11 Cush. 258; -Fisherv. Einaston, 18 Vermont, 489;. Fanning
.v. Chadwick, 3 Pick. 420; Coles v. Cole&,-15 Johns. 159; Gal'breath Y. 3foore, 2 Watts, 89; Harding v. Foxcroft, .6 Maine,
7~6.

The defendant has no right to complain of the action of the
court in allowing the plaintiff to remit all of the verdict in
excess of $4000. Probably the court thought that iihe verdict embraced items which were not properly allowable under
the declaration. There does not appear to be any ground for
holding that the remittitur was made with a view to avoid the
jurisdiction of this court.
We see no error in the action of the court in regardto the filling up of the amount in the verdict of the jury, even if the
exception thereto can be considered as having been taken in
time.
We have considered all the questions properly raised by the
defendant, and all the alleged errors of which he has any
right to complain, and see nothing in the record which would
warrant the awarding by us of a new trial.
Judgment -Affrmed.

