QCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

PETRI '. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK OF
CHIiCAGO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1071. Submitted January 4, 1892. -Decided

January 18, 1892.

A national bank, located in one State, may bring suit against a citizen of
another State, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
wherein the defendant resides, by reason alone of diverse citizenship.

THE court stated the case as follows:.

The Commercial National Bank of Chicago, a national
banking association, duly organized under the laws of the

United States in that behalf, and located in Illinois, brought
suit, May 6, 1890, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Texas, against A. C. Petri and
Oswald Petri, citizens of the State of. Texas, and doing business in that State under the firm name and style of A. C. Petri
& Brother, to recover the amount of several drafts, held by
the bank, drawn by Meyer & Sons Company, a corporation
of Illinois, on the defendants and accepted by them.
The defendants demurred on the ground that the Circuit
Court was without jurisdiction to entertain the suit, and also
interposed certain defences not drawn in question here. The
demurrer was overruled and final judgment given in 'favor of
plaintiff for the sum of $3328.66, with interest and costs,
whereupon the defendants prosecuted a writ of error from
this court to review the action of the Circuit Court upon the
question of jurisdiction.
_Jf. IF JTallett P1illips for plaintiffs in error.
The question is, whether a national bank has now the right
of suing in the Federal courts a citizen of a different State
from that in which it is located, by reason alone of. diverse

PETRI v. COMERCIAL BANK.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

citizenship. The legislation on this subject will be found in
the margin.'
1. Act of June 3, 1864:, c. 106, 13 Stat. 99.
SEc. 8. Such association
.
. may make contracts, sue and be sued,
complain and defend, in any court of law and equity as fully as natural persons. [Now embodied in Rev. Stat. § 5135.J Sec. 57. That suits, actions
and proceedings, against any association under this act, may be had in any
circuit, district or territorial court of the United States held within the
district in which such association may be established; or in any state,
county or municipal court in the county or city in which said association is
located, having jurisdiction in similar cases: Provided, however, That all
proceedings to enjoin the comptroller under this act shall be had in a circuit, district or territorial court of the United States, held in the district in
which the association is located. [Now found in Rev. Stat. § 5198, as
amended by the act of February 18, 1875, 18 Stat. 320, c. 80, and § 5237.]

2. Revised Stqtutes.
SEc. 563. The district courts shall have jurisdiction as follows:
Fifteenth. Of all suits by or against any association established under any
law providing for national banking associations within the district for
which the court is held. . . . Sec. 629. The Circuit Courts shall have
original jurisdiction as follows: . . . Tenth. Of all suits by or against
any banking association established in the district for which the court is
held, under any law providing for national banking associations.
3. Act of July 12, 1882, 22 Stat. 162, c. 290.
Provided, however, That the jurisdiction for suits hereafter
brought by or against any association established under any law providing
for national banking associations, except suits between them and the United
States, or its officers and agents, shall be the same as, and not other than,
the jurisdiction for suits by or against banks not organized under any law
of the United States which do or might do banking business where such
national banking associations may be doing business when such suits may
be begun: And all laws and parts of laws of the United States inconsistent
with this proviso be, and. the same ure hereby, repealed.
4. Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, as regnacted August 13, 1888, 25
Stat. 433, c. 866.
Sac. 4. That all national banking associations established under the laws
of the United.States shall, for the purposes of all actions by or against
them, real, personal or mixed, and all suits in equity, be deemed citizens of
the States in which they are respectively located; and in such cases the
Circuit and District Courts shall not have jurisdiction other than such asthey would have in cases between individual citizens of the same State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The status of a national bank in the Federal courts is determined by section 4 of.the act of 1888, regnacting the language
of section 4 of the act of 1887.
These acts contain the latest legislative declarations on the
subject and constitute the present law. They adopt as the
test of jurisdietio the right of suit in controversies between
individual citizens of the same State. They also ordain that
a national bank shall for the general purposes of litigation be
deemed to be a citizen of the State in which it is located.
We submit, that the right of a national bank to sue in the
Federal courts, is not conferred by the general provisions of
law conferring such right in cases of diverse citizenship, but
depends oh the particular legislation applicable alone to national banks, in the acts of 1887, 1888.
It is not denied that the act of 1887 in so far changed the
prior law, as to thenceforth prevent a national bank from
suing in the Federal courts in the State where located. This
privilege was formerly possessed under section 639 of the Revised Statutes. But there is nothing in the language of this
act which necessarily shows that Congress, while prohibiting
a national bank from suing in the Federal courts in the State
where located; authorized it in all cases to sue in the Federal
courts in other States.
The act of 1882 had already placed national banks on the
same footing, as respects jurisdiction of the Federal courts, as
that possessed by non-federal banks, or, in other words, the
same jurisdiction as that possessed generally by citizens of
different States. Its language is that the jurisdiction -for suits
brought by or against such associations, with certain exceptions not here material, "shall be the same and not other than
the jurisdiction by or against banks not organized under any
law of the United States."
If Congress had intended the jurisdiction, as provided in the
act of 1882, to continue, they would either have retained. its
language in any new enactmdnt or, what is more reasonable,
they would not have made a new enactment, as the old law
fully covered the subject matter.
The declaration in the act of 1887, that national banks

PETRI v. COMMERCIAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

"shall, for the purposes of all actions by or against them and
all suits in equity, be deemed citizens of the States where respectively located," ought not to control the subsequent clause
specifying the extent of the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
The two clauses are not conflicting. The entire language can
be given full effect. The section was not a piece of ill-digested
or hasty legislation. It was not a part of the original bill as
it passed the House of Representatives. It was reported in
the Senate as an amendment from the judiciary committee of
that body, and was adopted as such. On this committee were
such lawyers as Mr. Edmunds and Mr. Evarts. We must assume that, emanating from such authority, the phraseology of
the section was carefully selected, and every part of it should
be given its full meaning.
-Y. John ,Seldmn for defendant in error.
Mn. Cn=F

JusTiCE

FuLLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The question is whether a national bank located in one
State may bring suit against a citizen of another State in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district wherein the
defendant resides, by reason alone of diverse citizenship.
National banks are empowered to sue and be sued, complain
and defend, in any court of law and equity as fully as natural
persons. Rev. Stat. § .5136. The first national banking act,
that of February 25, 1863, 12 Stat. c. 58, 665, 681, provided in
§ 59 that suits by and against banks organized thereunder
might be brought in any "circuit, district or territorial court
of the United States held within the district in which such
association may be established;" and by the act of June 3,
1864, c. 106, § 57, 13 Stat. 99, 116, there was added to this
"or in any State, county or municipal court in the county or
city in which said association is located, having jurisdiction in
similar cases." Both these provisions were carried into § 5198
of the Revised Statutes, by the amendatory act of February
18, 1875, c. 80, 18 Stat. 316, 320.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Following section 11 of the Judiciary Act, the first subdivision of § 629, Revised Statutes, conferred jurisdiction on the
Circuit Courts of all suits of a civil nature at common law or
in equity, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum or value of five hundred dollars and the suit
was between a citizen of the State where it was brought and
a citizen of another State; and by subdivision ten jurisdiction
was given "of all suits by or against any banking association
established in the district for which the court is held, under
any law providing for national banking associations."
Under section one of the act of March 3, 1875, determining
the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts of the United States and
regulating the removal of causes from state courts, 18 Stat.
470, the Circuit Courts had original cognizance of suits arising
under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States,
as well as of those in which there were controversies between
citizens of different States, and by section two, jurisdiction by
removal in like cases was conferred.
Suits by or agihinst national banks might therefore be
brought or removed upon the ground of diverse citizenship,
or of subject matter, since as they were created by Congress,
and could acquire no right, make no contract and bring no
suit, which was not authorized by a law of the United States,
a suit by or against them was necessarily a suit arising under
the laws of the United States. Osborn v.Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, 823; Leather .fanufacturers Bank v.
Cooper, 120 U. S.778, 781 ; Pacific RailroadRemoval Cases,
115 U. S.1. And of course national banks as well -as state
banks and individuals might bring or remove suits otherwise
arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States. By the proviso to the 4th section of the act of Congress of July 12, 1882, c. 290, entitled "An act to enable
national banking associations to extend their corporate existence, and for other purposes," it was provided: "That the
jurisdiction for suits hereafter brought by or against any association established under any law providing for national banking associations, except suits between them and the United
States, or its officers and agents, shall be the same as, and not

PETRI v. COMMERCIAL BANK.
Opinion of the Court.'

other than, the jurisdiction for suits by or against banks not
organized under any law of the United States which do or
might do banking business where such national banking associations may be doing business when such suits may be begun:
and all laws and parts of laws of the United States inconsistent with this proviso be, and the same are hereby, repealed."
22 Stat. 162, 163. Hence the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
over suits by or against national banks could no longer be
asserted on the ground of their Federal o.rigin, as they were
placed in the same category with banks not organized under
the laws of the United States. leatkr -.3fufaeturer' Bank
v. Cooper,120U.S. 778,781; WMittemore v. Anoskeag .National
Bank, 134 U. S.527, 530.
So far as the mere source of its incorporation rendered suits
to which a national bank might be a party, cognizable by the
Circuit Courts, that was taken away, but the jurisdiction which
those courts might exercise in such suits when arising between
citizens of different States or under the Constitution or laws
of the United States, except in that respect, remained finchanged.
The fourth section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1887,
24: Stat. 552, c. 373, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888,
25 Stat. 433, c. 866, is as follows:
"SEc. 4. That all national banking associations established
under the laws of the United States shall,, for the purposes of
all actions by or against them, real, personal or mixed, and all
suits in equity, be deemed citizens of the States in which they
are respectively located; and in such cases the Circuit and
District Courts shall not have jurisdiction other than such as
they would have in cases between individual citizens of the
same State.
"The provisions of this section shall not be held to affect
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States in cases
commenced by the United States or by direction of any officer
thereof, or cases for winding up the affairs of any such bank."
25 Stat. 436.
In view of the language of the second clause of the first
branch of this section, it is contended that the Federal courts

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot exercise the same jurisdiction in respect of national
banks, by reason of diverse citizenbhip, as they possess in
controversies between individual citizens of different States.
The rule that every clause in a statute should have effect,
and one portion-should not be placed in antagonism to another, is well settled; and it is also held that it is the duty of
the court to ascertain the meaning of the legislature from the
words used aid the subject matter to which the statute relates,
and to restrain its operation within narrower limits than its
words import, if the court is satisfied that the literal meaning
of its language would extend to cases which the legislature
never intended to include in it. Brewer's Lesmee v. Blougker,
14 Pet. 178; Makrket Co. v. Hofman, 101 U. S. 112, 115.
The act of 1887 largely superseded the previous legislation
relating to the jurisdiction in general of the Circuit Courts.
Under the first section jurisdiction of all suits of a civil character, and involving a given sum or value, arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or in which there might
be a controversy between citizens of different States, was retained. And so far as ,national banks were concerned, the
jurisdiction could be exercised whether dependent upon the
subject matter or the citizenship.
Out of abundant caution, the first clause of the first branch
of the fourth section provided that national banks, for the
purposes of actions by or against them, should be deemed citizens of the States in which they were respectively located;
and this involved the right to sue, or be sued by, a citizen of
another State in the United States courts. Hence, as has
been well said, if the aqcond clause were to be construed as
contended, it would in effect take away what had just been
recognized. First Vational Bank v. Forest, 40 Fed. Rep. 705.
lBut had the section terminated with the first clause, the
question might have arisen as to whether a national bank
could, because of its Federal character, .bring suits in the Federal courti, or remove causes thereto, as had been originally
the case. And apparently to obviate this the clause was added
subjecting these banks to the same rules applicable to citizens
of the States where they were located. No reason is perceived

NISHIMURA EKIU v. UIITED STATES.
Syllabus.

why it should be held that Congress intended that national
banks should not resort to Federal tribunals as other corporations and individual citizens might.. The fact that there are
cases between individual citizens of the same State in which
the Circuit Courts might have jurisdiction, as where the case
arises under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States, or the controversy relates to lands claimed under
grants of different States, so far from sustaining the contention that the phraseology in question was designed to limit
the jurisdiction as to national banks to such cases, justifies
the conclusion that it is only to them that the second clause
applies. The use of the word "between" is perhaps open to
criticism, but it seems to us cleir that the clause was intended
to have, and must.receive, the same effect and operation as
that of the proviso to the fourth section of the act of July 12,
1882, that is to say, that the Federal courts should not have
jurisdiction by reason of the subject matter other than they
would have in cases between, individual citizens of the same
State, and so not have jurisdiction because of the Federal
origin of the bank. But jurisdiction dependent upon diversity of citizenship was provided for by the first section and
the first clause of the first branch of the fourth section of the
act -)f 1887, and no limitation in that regard was intended.
- The demurrer was.rightfully overruled, and the judgment is
Affimd.

NISAIMIURA EKIU v. UNITED STATES.
AVPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN' DISTRICT-OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 1393.

Argued and submitted December'16, 1891. - Decided January 18,1892.

The act of March 3, 1891, c.551, forbidding certain classes of alien immigrants to land in the United States, is constitutional and valid.
Upon a writ of habeas corpus, if sufficient ground for the prisoner's detention by the government is shown, he is not to be discharged for defects
in.the original arrest or commitment.

