OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The judgment is reversed and cause
remanded, with a direction to sustain the demurrer and to
dismiss the action, upon the authority of United States v.
mJosby, 133 U. S. 273.
1?eversed.

MAGONE v. ItOSENSTEIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 145. Argued January 7, 8, 1892. - Decided January 11, 1892.

Soft wood boxes, imported from Sweden, containing parlor matches, or
safety matches, are not subject to duty under the act of March 3, 1883,
22 Stat. c. 121, p. 488, ยง 7, p. 523.
Oberteuffer v. Robertson, 116 U. S. 499, affirmed and applied.

THE defendant in error imported into the port of New York
from Sweden 301 cases of matches known as parlor matches,
and ten cases of matches known as safety matches.. The
boxes contained about seventy matches each, and were made
of very thin pieces of soft wood covered with paper, and so
constructed that the receptacle containing the matches fitted
snugly into the cover like a drawer and could be slid out of
the cover at either end for the purpose of withdrawing the
contents.
The defendant, as collector, classified the soft wood boxes
for duty separately from the matches, and liquidated the duties
on the boxes at the rate of 100 per cent ad valorem, the cost
of packing not being included therein. The duty so levied on
the parlor-match boxes amounted to $315.43, and on the safetymatch boxes to $69.57.
The importer duly protested and brought this action to
recover back the duties on the boxes paid in obedience to said
assessment.
It was admitted by the counsel for the plaintiff in error that
the undoubted effect of the. testimony was to show that the

AIAGONE v. ROSENSTEINW.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

surface on each box for producing ignition had for its 'sole
object to facilitate the consumer's use of the contents of the
box, and had no particular utility as a covering or protection
for such contents.
The verdict was ,for the plaintiff. The defendant-sued out
this writ of error..
_Mr. Assistant Attorney General Afaury for plaintiff in
error.
Section 7 of the act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 523, c. 121,
provides as follows:
"Sec. 7. That sections twenty-nine hundred and seven and
twenty-nine hundred and eight of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, and section fourteen of the act entitled 'An
act to amend the customs revenue laws, and to repeal moities,'
approved June twenty-second, eighteen huddred and seventyfour, be, and the same are hereby, repealed, and hereafter
none of the charges imposed by said sections or any other provisions of existing law shall be estimated in ascertaining the
value of goods to be imported, nor shall the value of the usual
and necessary sacks, crates, boxes or covering of any kind be
estimated as part of their value in determining the amount of
duties for which they are liable: Pr"ovided:,That -ifany packages, sacks, crates, boxes or coverings of any kind shall be of
any material or form designed to evade duties thereon, or
designed for use otherwise than in the bona fide transportation
of goods to the United States, the same shall be subject to a
duty of one hundred per centum ad valorem upon the actual
value of the same."
The precise effect of the proviso of this section was not, perhaps, considered in Oberteufer v. Robertson, 116 U. S.499, the
cartons, etc., used in that case being clearly for the sole purpose of protecting the merchandise during transportation, nor
has the proviso been the subject of decision in any subsequent
case in this court.
The duty of 100 per cent was assessed on the value of .the
boxes in which the matches were.imported, in obedience to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

requirement of the proviso that such assessment should be
made in all cases where coverings of any kind, in which mer-

chandise was imported, were "of any material or form designed, to evade duties thereon, or designed for use otherwise
than iM the bona,je
transportation of good&to the United
States."
It was held by the collector, and properly held, we submit,
that the prepared surface put on each match box contained in
the importation showed an intention that the box should perform an important, not to say necessary, function in the consumption of its contents.
Indeed, it is clear that safety matches would, hardly be merchantable without a prepared surface on each box. And while
the prepared surface on the parlor-match box is not so necessary, it answers an important end in facilitating ignition, and
thereby tending to protect the walls and furniture of houses
from being used for that purpose.
It would seem, therefore, that in assessing duty, as stated,
the collector acted in conformity to the law.
fr. Henry Aplington for defendant in error.
Smith was with him on the brief.

_Mb. Nlelson

THE CHIEF JusTIE: The judgment is affirmed upon the
authority of Oberteufer v. Robertson, 116 U. S. 499.
Affirmed.

KENNEDY v. McKEE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT, COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 126. Submitted December 16, 1891. - Decided January4,1892.

The statutes of Texas in relation to assignments for the benefit of creditors, 1 Sayles's Civil Stats. 61, 62, 68, Arts. 65a., 65c. and 65s., do not contemplate an assignment of partnership property only by partners for the
benefit of creditors, and while such an assignment may be valid as to'

