OCTOBER TERM, .1891.

122'

Opinion of the Court.

CHEVER v. HORNER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 116.

Submitted December 2, 1891.-

pecided December 14, 1891.

The plaintiff and the defendant in an action of ejectment in a state court in

Colorado both claimed title under a vaid entry of the original site of the
city of Denver, made by the probate judge under the town site act of
May 23, 1844, 5 Stat. 657, c. 17, as extended to Arapahoe County in
Colorado by the act of May 28, 1864, 13 Stat. 94, c. 99. The deed under.
which the defendant claims was executed by the probate judge and
delivered several years before that executed and delivered by his successor to the plaintiff. The elder deed was assailed as defective by reason
of failure in the performance by the grantee of some of the requirements
of a Territorial statute, prescribing rules for the execution of the trust
arising under the act of Congress. The Supreme Court of the State held
that that deed, being regular on its face, and purporting to have been
executed in pursuance of authority, was not open to attack in a collateral
proceeding for defects or omissions in the initiatory proceedings. Helf,
that this decision proceeded upon the proper construction of a Territorial law, without regard to any right, title or privilege of the plaintiff
under an act of Congress, and that the writ of error must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.

EJ,'fmEzrr.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

J. Q. 0,4arlav, for plaintiff in error, submitted on his brief.
MTrk.
No counsel appeared for defendants in error.
Mi. CHF JusiicE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Charles G. Chever brought an action of ejectment against
Horner and Rogers to recover the possession of lot ten, block
176, in the east division of the city of Denver,, claiming.
ownership in fee simple. The case is stated, in substance, by
counsel for plaintiff in error thus: The lot in dispute constituted a part of the original site of Denver, entered by James
Hall, probate judge of Arapahoe County, Colorado, May 6,
1865. This entry was made under and by virtue of an act of
Congress approved May 23, 1844, entitled "An act for the
relief of the citizens of towns upon the lands of the United

CHEVER v. HORNER.
Opinion df the Court.

States, under certain circumstances;" 5 Stat. 657, c. 17, and
an act approved May 28, 1864, entitled "An act for~the relief
of tho citizens of Denver, in the Territory of Colorado." 13
Stat. 94, c. 99.
In conformity with the provisions of the first act the
legislature of Colorado Territory passed an act, approved
March 11, 1864, prescribing rules and regulations for the execution of the trust arising under the provisions of said acts of
Congress. Sess. Laws, Colorado, 1864, 139, 149; Rev. Stats.
Colorado, 1868, 619, 699. This act became applicable to the
Denver town site when entered by the probate judge under
and by virtue of the act of Congress of May 28, 1864.
Chever and Horner, both deraign title to the lot in dispute
under the entry above mentioned, by virtue of the foregoing acts
of Congress and the act of the legislature of Colorado Territory.
Upon the'trial of the cause by the District Court of Arapahoe County, a jury being waived by the parties, Chever, the
plaintiff, in support of his title, proved that he had filed upon
the lot in question, in the office of the probate judge, on the
7th of August, 1865, in conformity with section 4 of said .act
of the legislature of Colorado Territory, approved March 11,
1864. And he adduced evidence tending to show his rights
of possession and occupancy under the provisions of the acts
of Congress above mentioned. In further support of his title,
the patent from the United States to James Hall, probate
judge of Arapahoe County, as trustee, was put in evidence;
also deeds conveying the unexecuted portions of the trust
from Hall to Kent, his successor in office; from Kent to
Downing, his successor; from Downing to Clough, his successor; from Clugh to Kingsley, his successor, and also a deed
for the lot in question from William C. Kingsley, probate
judge of Arapahoe County, Colorado, to him, dated May 7,
1875. Plaintiff also offered in evidence a book kept by probate judge Hall of the filings of claimants to the lots in the
Denver town site for the purpose of showing who filed claims
for said lots under section 4 of the act of the territorial legislature , and who did not, to which objection was made and sustained by the court, and plaintiff excepted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants admitted ouster and that the lot in dispute
was a portion of the Denver town-site entry.
Defendant Horner, in support of his title to the lot, introduced in evidence a deed from probate judge Downing to
John Hughes, dated October 24, 1867; also a deed from
Hughes to himself for an undivided half of said lot, and a
decree of the District Court of Arapahoe County in partition
proceedings, vesting in him the other undivided half of the
lot. To the introduction of this evidence plaintiff objected
and reserved an exception.
In rebuttal, plaintiff offered evidence tending to show that
John Hughes, to whom probate judge Downing conveyed
the lot in dispute, never filed upon the same as required by
section four of the territorial act of 1864; that at the time of
the execution of the deed to Hughes, there were two filings
upon said lot undetermined, one by plaintiff and the other by
one Veasey; that Hughes was not a beneficiary under the acts
of Congress creatitig the trust; and that he was not an occupant
or entitled to the possession of said lot, and had no improvements thereon. Plaintiff also offered to prove that on or
prior to May 23, 1873, he was in possession of said lot and had
a fence around the same; and that on or about the 30th of
May, 1873, defendant Homer broke through the fence, moved
a frame house on the lot, took possession of it, and ousted
plaintiff therefrom. These offers were objected to by defendants and the objections sustained, and plaintiff excepted.
The court found for the defendants. A motion for a new
trial was interposed and denied, and judgment rendered on the
finding. The cause was then taken to the Supreme Court of
Colorado by appeal. The Supreme Court held: First, That
the deed executed by probate judge Downing, as trustee, to
John Hughes, dated October 24, 1867, by virtue of which the
defendant Homer derived title, was analogous to the granting
of a patent by the Land Department of the government; that
the same presumptions in favor of the regularity of such deed
existed as in the case of a patent issued by the government,
and that this presumption was conclusive as between the
,parties to the suit, not open to attack in an action of eject-

CHEVER v. HORNER.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, and only assailable, if at all, by direct proceedings in a
court of equity. Second, That the deed executed to the plaintiff by probate judge Kingsley did not relate back to the date
when the plaintiff filed his claim for said lot under section
four of the act of the territorial legislature, namely, August 7,
1865. The opinion, by Beck, C. J., will be found reported in
11 Colorado, 68. The judgment of the District Court was
affirmed and the cause brought here on writ of error.
It is admitted by counsel that "there is no controversy with
respect to the patent issued to probate judge Hall upon the
entry of the Denver town site by him. Both parties claim
title under this patent, and the provisions of the acts of Congress and territorial legislature, creating the trust and regulating its execution." Counsel further states that "the question presented by the pleadings and evidence is, which one of
these'deeds conveys the older and superior title to the lot in.
dispute- the one issued by probate judge Kingsley to the
plaintiff, or that of probate judge Downing to John: Hughes,
under which the defendant Horner claims to derive title? "
The errors assigned in this court are: That judgment should
have been given for the plaintiff and against the defendants;
that the Supreme Court of Colorado erred in holding "that
the deed executed by probate judge Downing to John
Hughes, under and by virtue of the said act of Congress for
the relief of the citizens of Denver, approved IMay 28, 1864,
and the act of the legislature of the Territory of Colorado,
prescribing rules and regulations for the execution of the trust
arising under said act of Congress, could not be impeached in
this action by showing that the said Hughes never became a
beneficiary under the said act of Congress by filing a statement of his claim to the said lot in controversy as prescribed
in section three of said act of said territorial legislature, and that
said deed could not be assailed in this suit by showing such a
violation of said acts of Congress and of said territorial legislature by said probate judge in the execution of said deed ;" and
also "in holding that the issuance of deeds by the probate
judge under and by virtue of said acts of Congress and of the
territorial legislature was analogous to the granting of, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

patent by the Land Department of the United States government, and that in the issuance of such deeds it must be conclusively presumed that the probate judge complied with all
the conditions of said acts;" and also "in holding that the
said deed issued by said probate judge to said Hughes was the
elder deed in point of date, and that the said deed issued to
said plaintiff in error by probate judge Kingsley under and
by virtue of said acts did not relate back to the date of the
filing by said Chever of his statement of claim to said lots as
prescribed by the rules and regulations adopted by said territorial legislature and as provided by said act of Congress."
The act of Congress of May 23, 1844, provided: "That
whenever any portion of the surveyed public lands has been
or shall be settled upon and occupied as a town site, and therefore not subject to entry under the existing preemption laws,
it shall be lawful, in case such town or place shall be incorporated, for the corporati, authorities thereof, and, if not incorporated, for the judges of the county court for the county
in which such town mty be situated, to enter, at the proper
land office, and at the minimum price, the land so settled and
occupied, in trust, for the several use and benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their respective interests; the execution of which trust, as to the disposal of the lots in such
town, and the proceeds of the sales thereof, to be conducted
under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
legislative authority of the State or Territory in which the
same is situated. . . . And provided, al8o, That any act
of said trustees, not made in conformity to the rules and regulations herein alluded to, shall be void and of none effect.
."".

5 Stat. 657, c. 17.

The act of May 28, 1864, extended the provisions of the
former act, so as to authorize the probate judge of Arapahoe
County, in the Territory of Colorado, to enter certain legal
subdivisions of land mentioned, "in trust for the several use
and benefit of the rightful occupants of said land and the bona
fide owners of the improvements thereon, according to their
respective interests;" and also provided "that in all respects,
except as herein modified, the execution of the foregoing pro-

CHEVER v. HORNER.
Opinion of the Court.

visions shall be controlled by the provisions of said act of
twenty-third May, eighteen hundred and forty-four, and the
rules and regulations of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office." 13 Stat. 94, c. 99.
The Supreme Court of Colorado' said: "Under the acts of
Congress above mentioned, and the provisions of the act of
the territorial legislature in aid thereof, the probate judge
holding the title to the town site in trust for the beneficiaries,
was authorized to convey the lots and parcels of land therein
to those entitled to the same. This was a general jurisdiction
over the subject matter, analogous to the jurisdiction of the
Land Department of the government over the issuing of
patents to lands subject to entry under the land laws of the
United States. Being invested with title and jurisdiction,
probate judge Downing conveyed the lot in controversy to
John Hughes, from whom appellee Homer deraigned title
more than seven years prior to the conveyance by his successor, Judge Kingsley, to the appellant Chever. If, then, the
deed from Judge Downing to Hughes is regular upon its face,
and purports to have been executed in pursuance of the
authority vested in the grantor, it is not open to attack in
this collateral proceeding for defects or omissions in the initiatory proceedings." And it was accordingly held, as the deed
was of that character, that the presumption was that the
proper initiatory steps had been taken in conformity with
law.
We cannot perceive that any title, right or privilege was
specially set up and claimed by Chever under the acts of Congress, and that the decision of the state court was against such
title, right or privilege. The decision proceeded upon the
proper construction of a territorial law prescribing rules and
regulations for the execution of the trust in question, and
enacted in pursuance of the acts of Congress. And the rulings
in regard to the deeds issued by the probate judges were
rulings not involving the denial of a title, right or privilege
specially set up under the acts of Congress, by Chever as
against Horner, but compliance with requirements of the territorial act. The question was whether, under the law of

OCTOBER TERM, 181.
Syllabus.

Colorado, the title which had passed from the United States
to the probate judge, passed from Judge Downing to Hughes
or from Judge Kingsley to Chever. There was no pretence
that the proceedings prescribed by the territorial act were not
in due execution of the trust imposed by the town-site acts, and
the conclusion reached was based purely upon the local law.
Both parties admitted the title of the probate judge, and the
real controversy related to the transfer of that title to one
party or the other. Under these circumstances the writ of
error cannot be sustained, and it must be
Dismim8e&

VAN

STONE v' STILLWELL & BIERCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 113. Submitted November 25,1891.-Decided December 21,1891.

In regard to bills of exceptions Federal courts are independent of any statute or practice prevailing in the courts of the State in which the trial
was had.
Under the pleadings as framed and the issues as made up in this case the
court was bound to admit evidence.
In the absence of a specification wherein evidence offered was improper or
irrelevant this court is bound to presume that it was properly admitted.
A matter resting in the discretion of the trial court is not assignable for
error here.
The overruling of a motion for a new trial in the court below cannot be
assigned for error.
A general exception to the charge of the court as a whole cannot be considered here.
A mechanics' lien is a creature of statute, not created by contract, but by
statute, for the use of the materials, work and labor furnished under the
contract, and the contract is presumably entered into in view of the
statute.
It is settled law in Missouri that a contractor does not waive his right to
file a mechanics' lien by receiving from the owner of the building a
promissory note for the amount due, payable at a time beyond the expiration of the period within which he is required to file his lien; but,

