OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

For the error of the court in respect to this instruction the
judgment must be
.Reversed,and the case remandecdfor a new trial,and it i8 8o

ordered.

PEARCE v. RICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 51. Argued October 26, 27, 1891.-Decided December 7, 1891.
F. owed H. & Co. on account about $22,000. He settled this in part by a
cash payment, and in part by a transfer of promissory notes payable to
himself, the payment of two of which, for $5000 each, was guaranteed
by him in writing. H. & Co. transferred these notes to a bank as collateral to their own note for about $13,000. They then became insolvent,
and assigned all their estate to P. as assignee for distribution among
their creditors. The bank sued F. on his guaranty. He set up in defence that his indebtedness to H. & Co. grew out of dealings in options
in grain and other commodities, to be. settled on the basis of "differences," and that it was invalidated by the statutes of Illinois, where the
transactions took place. The court held that he could not maintain this
statutory defence as against a bonafide holder of the guaranteed notes,
and gave judgment against him. Execution on this judgment being returned unsatisfied, a bill was filed on behalf of the bank to obtain a discovery of his property and the appointment of a receiver, to which F., and
the maker of the notes, and R., with others, were made defendants. P.,
the assignee of H. & Co., was, on his own application, subsequently made
a defendant. An injunction issued, restraining each of the defendants
from disposing of any notes in his possession due to F. Subsequently
to these proceedings F. assigned to R. the two notes which H. & Co. had
transferred to the bank. P., as assignee of H. & Co., filed a cross-bill in
the equity suit, showing that the judgment in favor of the bank was in
excess of the balance due the bank by H. & Co. R. filed an answer and a
cross-bill in that suit, setting up his claim to the said notes, and maintaining that the judgment in favor of the bank was invalid, as being in
conflict with the statutes of Illinois. Held,
(1) That the liability of F. upon the guaranty was, as between the bank
and-him, fixed by the judgment in the action at law;
(2) That all the bank could equitably claim in this suit was the amount
actually due it from H. &' Co., which was considerably less than
the amiount of the face of the notes;

PEARCE v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.
(3) That the transfer and guaranty of the notes to H. & Co. were void
under the Illinois statutes, and passed no title to them or their
assignee;
(4) That R. was the equitable owner of the notes, and was entitled to
receive them on payment to the bank of the amount of the indebtedness of H. & Co. to it;
(5) That the assignment to R., having been made in good faith and for
a valuable consideration, he was a person interested in the object
to be attained by the proceedings within the intent of the statute.
When, by filing a replication to a plea in equity issue is taken upon the
plea, the facts, if proven, will avail the defendant only so far as in law
and equity they ought to ,vail him.
Hughes v. Mlake, 6 Wheat. 453, explained and distinguished from this case.

THn case was stated by the court as follows:
This case involves the conflicting claims of the appellant
and the appellee to the balance due upon a judgment in favor
of Huntington W. Jackson, receiver of the Third National
Bank of Chicago, and to two promissory notes in his or its
hands.
The history of that judgment, and the circumstances under
which the banlk got possession of the notes are as follows:
Hooker & Co., June 29, 1876, rendered to Ira Foote an account for $22,165.72, which the latter settled in part by delivering to that firm four notes, of $5000 each, executed to him
by the trustees of the estate of Ira Couch deceased. The balance, $2165.72, was paid at the time in cash through James
H. Rice. Upon each of two of the Couch notes due respectively on the first days of July and October, 1877- the ones
here in dispute - was the following endorsement: "I hereby
guarantee the payment of the within note for value received
at maturity. Ira Foote, by J. H. Rice, attorney in fact."
On the 30th of December, 1876, Hooker & Co. made their
note to the Third National Bank oT Chicago for $13,912.97,
payable ninety days after date, with interest at the rate of ten
per cent per annuh, and, as collateral security for its payment,
deposited several promissory notes with the bank, including
the above two notes guaranteed by Foote.
For the purpose of making a distribution of their estate
among creditors, that firm executed, February 28, 1877, an

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

assignment to J. Irving Pearce of all their property of every
kind.
The bank, by its receiver, brought suit against Foote, April
26, 1878, in the court below, upon the above guaranty of the
two Couch notes. Ie pleaded that he did not promise in
manner and form as alleged; also, that the promises alleged
had no other consideration than the buying and selling by
Hooker & Co. for him upon the Chicago Board of Trade
deals and options in grain, wheat, lard, pork and other commodities, wherein neither party had or was to deliver or receive any articles so bought or sold, and which transactions
were to be settled entirely upon the basis of "differences."
He pleaded, in addition, a set-off for money lent and advanced,
money paid, laid out and expended, etc. The issues were
found for the bank, and judgment was rendered against him
for the sum of $14,635.55. In that case, the court said that
while Foote may have contemplated dealing wholly in "differences" to such an extent as would make the transactions,
under the decisions of the courts of Illinois, wager or gambling
contracts at common law, he did not, according to the evidence, intend that his brokers should make for him such contracts -options to buy or sell at a future time property that
was not to be delivered -as
were expressly made illegal by'
the Illinois statutes. It was said among other things: "The
defendant having delivered these notes with his guaranty upon
them to Hooker & Co. in settlement of their demand against
him, even though their demand was tainted as a gambling
claim at common law, he cannot be allowed to set up the illegality of the dealings between himself and Hooker & Co. as a
defence to these guarantees in the hands of a bonaXfide holder.
He has put this paper, with his guaranty aflixed to it, afloat
upon the market. Unless a clear case of violation of the statute is made out, and the burden of making such a case is upon
the defendant, this guaranty in the hands of a bonatflde holder
for value is valid, and not tainted by any of the defences between the original parties." Jackgon, v. F!'oote, 11 Bissell, 223;
S. 0. 12 Fed. Rep. 37, 41.
Execution against Foote having been returned no property

PEARCE v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

found, the bank, to obtain satisfaction of its judgment, brought
the present suit, September 21, 1882, to obtain a discovery of
his property and effects, and the appointment of a receiver.
To this suit Foote, Rice, the trustees of Couch's estate, and
others were made defendants. An injunction was issued
restraining the defendants from selling, assigning, negotiating,
receiving, collecting, or in any manner disposing of, any debts,
bonds or notes due Foote, whether in his possession, or held
by other persons in trust for his use or benefit. A receiver
having been appointed, Foote was directed, by an order of
court, to execute and deliver a general assignment of all his
property and effects. This was done by him November 1,
1882. Pearce was made a defendant, on his own petition,
and with leave of the court filed a cross-bill showing, among
other things, that the judgment of the. bank against Foote
was largely in excess of the balance really due it from Hooker
and Co., and claiming that be, as assignee of that firm, was
entitled not only to the above two notes but to such balance
as might be realized on that judgment after paying the
amount due from his assignors to the bank.
Rice filed an answer and cross-bill asserting his ownership
of the two Couch notes by assignment froi Foote. That
assignnent was-made February 16, 1885, and is in these
words: "For value received I hereby sell, assign, transfer
and set over unto Jgames H. Rice, of Chicago, Illinois, -all my
right, title, interest, claim and demand in and under two (2)
certain notes executed by the trustees of Ira Couch's estate to
my order, each of said notes being for the sum of five thousand dollars ($5000,00), and are dated the first day of July,
1876, and are now in the hands of Huntington W. Jackson,
receiver of the Third National Bank of Chicago, said notes
being held by said Jackson, receiver as aforesaid, as collateral
security for a. certain indebtedness due said Third National
Bank from S. G. Hooker & Co. I hereby give said Rice full
power and authority to prosecute, in my name or, his own,
any and all suits touching said notes in any manner that
he may deem best." The principal consideration for this
assignment was the taking care of Foote by Rice. The evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

deuce of Rice on this point is uncontradicted. He testified:
"I have spent a good deal of money on him, taking care of
him. He had no money of his own, except what I let him
have. He has been an invalid and had to have somebody
to look after,him and have somebody to attend to him.
I had paid out money for Mr. Foote. He had got suits on his
hands that he had to carry out, and I had become responsible
for some of his fees, attorney's fees, and, in fact, had advanced
him money to carry on his cases. It had gone so far that I
didn't care about taking a great many chances more, and he
assigned that [the two Couch notes] to me.

.

.

.

There

are a good many other considerations besides the advancement of money that Mr. Foote is indebted for; he has made
his home with me; been provided with nurses and doctors
and taken good care of. Outside of the friendship I have for
Mr. Foote there would be no money consideration for what I
have gone through with." Again: "Mr. Foote has made his
home with me for nine years. He has been very feeble, especially for the past two years. He is in his sixty-eighth year.
He has had to travel for his health, and has been away both
winter and summer. He has had no money within the last
five years, except what I have furnished him; no nurses or
doctors except what I "have paid for since he has been sick."
Rice's answer and cross-bill proceed upon the ground that
the original transaction between Hooker & Co. and Foote was
based upon a mere wager or bet upon the price of grain or provisions, constituting an option contract prohibited and declared
void by the statutes of Illinois; and, therefore, that the consideration of Foote's guaranty upon the two notes failed, na
title to them passing to Hooker & Co. The relief asked by
him was, that the judgment rendered in favor of the bank
against Foote be vacated and set aside; that if for any reason
that could not be done, then that the judgment be set aside
upon the payment to the bank of any balance due from
Hooker & Co., which payment he offered to make upon the
surrender of the above notes to him; and that the bank be
ordered to return the notes to him. He asked such other
relief as equity required.

PEARCE v. RICE.
Argument for Appellant.

Foote adopted the answers of Rice to the original and crossbills of Pearce as his own. The bank and Pearce each relied
upon the judgment against Foote in bar of the claim asserted
by Rice. They denied that the original transactions between
Foote and Hooker & Co. were in violation of law, or that
Rice was a 5onaftde owner for value of the Couch notes.
Upon final hearing it was adjudged that the bank was
entitled to be paid upon its judgment against Foote the balance due on the note of HoQker & Co., after crediting all payments thereon, including one by Pearce as assignee of Hooker
& Co. The cross-bill of Pearce was dismissed for want of
equity.
In respect to the claim of Rice, it was adjudged that he was
the equitable owner of the two notes in question; that, they
having been transferred by Foote to Hooker & Co. for a gambling consideration, the transfer was void as between those parties; that upon payment by Rice to the bank -of the amount
due upon the indebtedness to it of Hooker & Co., he, as assignee of Foote, was entitled to have the notes delivered to
him, together with a transfer of the bank's judgment against
Foote, the judgment to be satisfied of record by Rice upon the
collection by him of the notes or enough thereon to satisfy
the amount to be paid to the bank, together with his costs
and expenses; and that upon such payment within thirty days
from the date of the decree the bank should deliver the notes
to Rice, with an assignment duly executed of its judgment
against Foote. Pearce alone appealed from the decree.
Mr. Huntington W. Jackeon for appellant.
I. The facts in the pleas of the bank and Pearce to which
replications were filed by Rice having been proved, the crossbill should have been dismissed. Cammann v. TaThagan, I
N. J. Eq. (Saxton) 230 ; Meeker v. Xarsh, 1 N. J. Eq. (Saxton) 198, 202; fflyers v. Dorr, 13 Blatchford, 22; HEughes v.
Blake, 6 Wheat. 453.
II. A decision of a controversy by a court of competent
jurisdiction upon a. full and fair trial on the merits cannot be
VOL. CxL-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

regxamined, or the matter in controversy again drawn into
question, unless in an appellate forum. Wright v. lfashington,
5 Grattan, 645; West v. Carter, 129 Illinois, 249; S. C. 25 1ll.
App. 245; Giddens v. Lea, 3 Humph. 133; Olay v. _Fry, 3
Bibb, 248; Jeune v. Osgood, 57 Illinois, 340; LeGuen v. Gouverneur, 1 Johns. Cas. 436, 492; Hempstead v. Watkins, 6 Arkansas, 317; Hendricksonv. Hinckley, 17 How. 443; Arrington
v. IWaskington, 14 Arkansas, 218; Bank of the United States v.
Beverly, 1 How. 134; Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351 ;
Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246; llopkins v. lea, 6 Wheat. 109;
Campbell v. Goodall, 8 Ill. App. 266; Bennitt v. lfilmizgton
Star _X'ining Co., 119 Illinois, 9.
III. Rice not being a party to the judgment against Foote,
and the judgment at the time of its rendition not affecting any
of his rights, he is not a party in interest and should not be
permitted to'file his cross-bill to set aside the judgment. Stone
v. Towne, 91 'U.S. 341; Carter v. West, 129 Illinois, 249.
IVr. The transactions between Hooker & Co. and Foote
were not prohibited by the Illinois statutes. Jackson v. Foote,
11 Bissell, 223.
Mr. JLewis H. Bisbee for appellee. ..
Robert H. JKern
and ilq. -FrankF. Reed were with him on the brief.

M-.JUSTICE H uLnA,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

Does the bank's judgment against Foote preclude inquiry,
in this suit, between the respective assignees of Foote and of
Hooker & Co., as to whether the original claim of that firm
against Foote, and Foote's transfer of the Couch notes to it
with guaranty of payment, were void under the laws of Illinois?
The statute of Illinois referred to -being the part of the
Criminal Code of that State, relating to "Gambling and Gambling Contracts" - provides:

Sno. 130. "Whoever contracts to have or give to himself
or another the option to sell or buy, at a future time, any grain
or other commodity, stock of any railroad or other company,

PEARCE v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

or gold, or forestalls the market by spreading false rumors to
influence the price of commodities therein, or corners the
market, or attempts so to do, in relation to any of such commodities, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $1000,
or confined in the county jail not exceeding one year, or both;
and all contracts made in violation of this section shall be
considered gambling contracts, and shall be void."
SEc. 131. "All promises, notes, bills, bonds, covenants, contracts, agreements, judgments, mortgages or other securities
or conveyances made, given, granted, drawn or entered into,
or executed by any person whatsoever, where the whole or
any part of the consideration thereof, shall be for any money,
property or other valuable thing, won by any . . . wager
or bet upon any . . . chance,. ..
or unknown or
contingent event whatever, or for the reimbursing or paying
any money or property knowingly lent or advanced at the
time and place of such . . . bet, to any person or persons
so gaming or betting, . . .
shall be void and of no effect."
SEc. 135. "All judgments, mortgages; assurances, bonds,
notes, bills, specialties, promises, covenants, agreements and
bther acts, deeds, securities or conveyances, given, granted,
drawn or executed, contrary to the provisions of this act, may
be set aside and vacated by any court of equity, upon bill filed
for that purpose, by the person so granting, giving, entering
into or executing the same, or by his executors or administrators, or by any creditor, heir, devisee, purchaser or other person interested therein or if a judgment, the same may be set
aside on motion of any person aforesaid, on due notice thereof
given."
SEc. 136. 'KNo assignment of any bill, .note, bond, covenant,
agreement, judgment, mortgage or other security or conveyance as aforesaid, shall, in any manner, affect the defence of
the person giving, granting, drawing, entering into or executing the same, or the remedies of any person interested therein."
Rev. Stats. Illinois, 1874, pp. 372, 373, c. 38.
The appellant invokes the general rule that a judgment is
final and conclusive, in any subsequent suit, between the same
parties or their privies, as to all matters actually determined,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

or which were necessarily involved, in the first suit; also, the
,rule, recognized in the courts of the United States, that equity
will not, at the instance of one against whom a judgment at
law has been rendered, restrain the operation or effect of that
judgment, unless there be equitable circumstances justifying
its interference, or unless such person was prevented by fraud
or accident, unmixed with fault or negligence upon his part,
from making full defence at law.
The courts of Illinois have not regarded these rules as
strictly applicable in cases under the law relating to gaming
and gambling contracts. In Atallett v. Butcher, 41 Illinois,
382, 385, the Supreme Court of that State, construing the statute in question, held that all contracts having their origin in
gaming.were void, not voidable only, and that it was entirely
immaterial when or how the fact was disclosed to the court;
consequently, a suit in equity would lie to set aside a judgment
at law on a note given for money lost in gaming with cards,
where the obligor failed to make defence. The same question
arose in West v. Carter,129 Illinois, 249, 254, which was also a
suit in equity to set aside a judgment -obtained without a real
defence being made -upon a contract void under the gaming
statute. It was there contended that sections 131 and 135 of
the statute had no application to judgments except those rendered by confession; in other words, that thoe sections, in their
application to judgments, 'affected only such as resulted from
the voluntary act of the defendant. But the court refused to
so restrict the operation of section 131. The judgments, promises and instruments therein specified being void and of no
effect, "it is not," said the court, "in the power of the party
to whom made, granted, given or executed, or in whose interest they are drawn or entered into, to give the contract validity. Nor can the court, at the instance of such party, any
more than it could by the confession or consent of the defendant, vitalize the contract, and by its judgment defeat the
effectiveness of the proceeding in equity authorized by the
135th section of the statute to set aside the void contract.
The rule in equity, that courts of chancery will not
take jurisdiction when there is an adequate defence or. remedy

PEARCE v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

at law, must yield to the requirements of this statute, that
relief may be granted in a court of equity to vacate and set
aside judgments and contracts obtained in violation of this
provision."

These cases, in effect, decide that the judgments which the
statute permits to be vacated, upon bill in equity or motion,
embrace those on confession, as well as those rendered upon
default, or without a direct issue, fully and fairly tried,
between proper parties. It is consistent with those cases to
hold- as upon any sound interpretation of the statute, and in
obedience to the principles of equity obtaining in the courts
of the United States, we must hold -that Foote's liability
upon his guaranty of the Couch notes was, as between the
bank and him, fixed by the judgment upon the direct issue in
the suit at law, as to such liability, and which judgment has
not been modified or reversed. NVeither he nor Rice, claimiig
under an assignment executed after that judgment, could have
it annulled by decree in a court of the United States, except
upon some ground recognized in the courts of the United
States as sufficient for the interference of equity.
Still, it is clear that the result for which the appellant contends does not follow. The two Couch notes were held by
the bank only as collateral security for its claim against
Hooker & Co. According to some adjudged cases, if the
point had been made in the suit at law, the judgment against
Foote would have been restricted to the real amount of the
bank's claim. It is an undisputed fact that the6 amount due
from Hooker & Co. to the bank, at the date of its judgment
against Foote, April 1T, 1882; computing the interest at ten
per cent per annum, was less- than one-half of the sum for
which it took judgment. The excess over the amount really
due from Hooker & Co., did not, in any view, equitably belong to the bank; but, as between it and Pearce, to the latter.
Its interest in Foote's guaranty was measured by the amount
of the indebtedness of Hooker & Co. to it at the date of the
judgment against Foote. If the bank had collected the entire
amount of that judgment from Foote, it would have been
bound to account to the assignee of Hooker & Co. for the bal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ance remaining after its demand against that firm was satisfied; and this for the reason that it could not be deemed a
bona,#de holder for value except to the extent of its demand
against Hooker & Co. Story on Prom. Notes, § 195; .Mayo
v. Moore, 28 Illinois, 428; Tfilliahs v. Smith, 2 Hill, 301 ,
Stoddard v. Fimball, 6 Cush. 469; Chicopee Bank v. C.hapin,
8 Met. (Mass.) 40; Farwell v. Importers' and Trade?;s' Bank,
90 N. Y. 483, 488; Allaire v. Eartsorne, 21 N. J. Law,
(1 Zabr.) 665; Maitland v. Citizens' N¥at. Bk. of Baltimore,40
Maryland, 540, 570; Union HYat. Bank v. Roberts, 45 Wisconsin, 373, 379; Tarbell v. Sturtevant, 26 Vermont, 513, 517;
Valette v. Mason, 1 Indiana, 89; First -NVat. Bk. of -Dubuque
v. JVerst, 52 Iowa, 684, 685; Citizens' Bank v. Payne, 18 La.
Ann. 222. All the bank can equitably claim in this suit is
the amount due it from Hooker & Co., which was admitted and
found to have been only $8459 at the date of the decree in
this case. And its substantial rights were not disturbed by
the decree under review; for its judgment against Foote, which
was only collateral security for that claim, was not set aside,
but the payment of the above amount made a condition precedent to its surrender of the Couch notes, and the assignment
of that judgment. Neither the bank nor Rice complains of the
decree in that form.
So, that the real question before us is as to the respective
claims of the assignee of Hooker & Co. and the assignee of
Foote to the possession of the Couch notes, and to the right of
the appellant to enforce the judgment against Foote after the
amount due the bank is paid. In determining these matters,
must we assume, as between those assignees- neither having
taken any greater rights than their assignors had -that the
transfer of the Couch notes to Hooker & Co. by Foote, and
the latter's guaranty of those notes, were valid contracts under
the above statutes of Illinois? Did the judgment of the
bank establish the validity of those contracts as, between
Foote and Hooker & Co.? These questions must receive a
negative answer. Hooker & Co. were not parties to the action at law, and there was no issue in it between them and
Foote. Within the law of estoppel, there was no, privity be-

PEARCRE v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

tween the bank and Hooker & Co.; certainly none that
entitled the latter to rely upon the bank's judgment as conelusively establishing their i.laim against Foote. Hooker &
Co. had no right to control, in anywise, the proceedings in
that suit. While liable to the bank upon their own note,
they were not liable to it upon the Couch notes or upon
Foote's guaranty of them, for they simply deposited the notes,
thus guaranteed, with the bank as collateral security, without
endorsing them. It is true they had a pecuniary interest in
the bank's succeeding in its action against Foote, and it may
be that the same facts that would constitute a good defence,
under the statute, for Foote, if sued by Hooker & Co., would
equally have protected him against liability to the bank upon
that guaranty. But these circumstances do not show such
privity between the bank and Hooker & Co. as to conclude
Foote, the bank having been successful, or to have concluded
Hooker & Co. if Foote had succeeded, in respect to matters in
dispute between him and that firm. In no legal sense was
Hooker & Co. represented in the action upon Foote's guaranty.
If they had sued him upon his guaranty, and, pending that action, the Couch notes had been transferred to the bank with
the guaranty of payment endorsed thereon, there would have
been such privity between Hooker & Co. and the bank as,
perhaps, to have made the judgment against Foote conclusive
for, and a judgment in his favor conclusive against, both
Hooker & Co. and the bank, in respect to the matters litigated; for, in the case supposed, Hooker & Co. would have
been parties to the judgment, and the bank, although- not a
party, would have succeeded -to the rights asserted by that
firm after the institution of the suit, and from a party thereto.
Orthwein v. Thomas, 127 Illinois, 554, 571 ; 1 Greenl. Ev. §§
523, 524. In respect to the two Couch notes in question, the
issue is presented in this suit for the first time between Hooker
& Co. and Foote as to whether the transfer and guaranty of
those notes -to that firm were upon such a. consideration as
rendered the transfer and guaranty void under the statute.
The bank's judgment against Foote having enured,,in equity,*
to its benefit only to the extent of its demand against Hooker

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

& Co. neither he, nor his assignee, nor any person interested,
was estopped thereby from proving as against Hooker & Co.
or their assignee the real nature of the transactions on the
Chicago Board of Trade in which that firm represented Foote.
Any other view would tend to defeat the manifest object for'
which the statute was enacted.
In respect to the character of the transactions resulting in
the claim of Hooker & Co. against Foote for $22,165.72, which
the latter settled by a transfer of the four Couch notes, with
guaranty of their payment, but little need be said. What the
evidence was upon this point in Jackson, Receiver, &c. v. Foote,
we are not informed otherwise than by the opinion of the court
in that case. But the evidence before us is overwhelming to
the effect that the real object of the arrangement between.
Hooker & Co. and Foote was, not to contract for the actual
delivery, in the future, of grain or other commodities - which
contracts would not have been illegal (Pickering v. Cease, 79
Illinois, 328, 330) - but merely to speculate upon the rise and
fall in prices, with an explicit understanding, from the outset,
that the property apparently contracted for was not to be
delivered, and that the transactions were to be losed only by
the payment of the differences between- the contract price and
the market price at the time fixed. for the execution of the contract. There was no material part of the claim of Hooker &
Co. that was not based upon a palpable violation of the statute.
The parties deliberately engaged in what is called gambling in
differences. It results that~both the transfer and guaranty of the
Couch notes to Hooker & Co. were void under the statute, and
passed no title to them or to their assignee. It was so ruled by
the Supreme Court of Illinois in Pearcev. Foote,113 Illinois, 228,
(decided after Jackson, Receiver, cd.v. Foote,) which was a suit
by Pearce, as assignee of Hooker & Co., on one of the four
'Couch notes transferred to that firm by Foote. See also Tenney v. Foote, 95 Illinois, 99 ; Lyon v. Culbertson, 83 Illinois, 33;
Pickering v. Cease, '79 Illinois, 328; Irwin v. Williar, 110.
U. S. 499; Barnardv. Backhaus, 52 Wisconsin, 593; Love v.
Rarvey, 114 Mass. 80; Flagg v. Baldwin, 38 N. J. Eq..(11
Stewart,) 219; Biqelow v. Benedict, 70 N. Y. 202.

PEARIE v. RICE.
Opinion'of the Court.

It is contended, however, that, under the pleadings and the
rules of practice adopted for the equity courts of the United
States, no decree could properly have been rendered, except
one dismissing the cross-bill of Rice. 'The bank filed a plea
and answer together; the plea setting up the proceedings and
judgment at law in bar of Rice's cross-suit, and saving to the,
bank the benefit thereof. Pearce, as assignee of Hooker & Co.,
filed an answer, the first part of which, as did the plea of the
bank, set out the proceedings and judgment in the action at
law upon Foote's guaranty, relying upon them in bar of Rice's
cross-suit, and praying that he might have-the same benefit as
if he had pleaded them. To the plea and answer of the bank,
and to the answer of Pearce, general replications were filed
by Rice, whereby, it is insisted, Rice admitted the sufficiency
in law of the matters pleaded in bar; and, as the fpcts relating
to the action at law were proven; the cross-bill of Rice, it is
contended, should have been dismissed, as of course.
In support of this contention fughem v. Blake, 6 Wheat.
453, 472, is cited. It was there said: "The truth of the plea.
being thus made out, what is to be the consequence? If the
rule of courts -of equity in Efigland is to be applied, there can
be no doubt. If a plea, in the apprehension of the complainant,
be good in matter, but not true in fact, he may reply to it, as
has been done here, and proceed to examine witnesses in the
same way as in case of a replication to an answer; but such a
proceeding is always an admission of the sufficiency of the plea
itself, as much so as if it had been set down for argument and
allowed; and if the facts relied on by the plea are proved, a
dismission of the bill on the hearing is a matter of course."
That case was decided at February term, 1821, of this court.
The rule there announced was undoubtedly in accordance with
the long established practice in courts of equity. Farley v.
Kittson, 120 U. S. 303, 314; Story's Eq. P1. § 697; 1 Daniell's
Ch. P1. & Pr. 695; 1 Smith's Ch. Pr. 234; Mitford's Ch. P1.
302-3; Harqis v. Jngledew, 3 P. Wins. 91, 94. But, at the
succeeding term, in 1822, of this court, rules of practice for
thQ equity courts of the United States were adopted under
the authority conferred by the act of May 8, 1792, 1 Stat. 275,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

c. 36. Rule 19 of that series provided: "The plaintiff may
set down the demurrer or plea to be argued, or he may take
issue on the plea. If, upon an issue, the facts stated in the
plea be determined for the defendant, they shall avail him as
far as in law and equity they ought. to avail him." '7 Wheat.
x. This subsequently became, and is .now, equity rule 33. It
clearly takes from the establishment of the plea the effect it
had under the old law. When, by filing a replication, issue is
taken upon a plea, the facts, if proven, will now avail the
defendant only so far as in law and equity they ought to avail
him. Under the existing rule the court may, upon final hearing, do, at least, what, under the old rule, might have been
done when the benefit of a plea was saved to the hearing.
"When," says Cooper, "the benefit of the plea is saved to the
hearing, the decision of the cause does not rest upon the truth
of the matter of the plea; but the plaintiff may avoid it by
other matter, which he is at liberty to adduce." Cooper's Eq.
P1. 233. See also Story's Eq. P1. § 698; Mitford's Eq. P1.
303; ilancoek v. Carlton, 6 Gray, 39, 54. See also United
States v. Dales -MilitaryR~oad Co., 140 U. S. 599, 616, 617.
So far as the bank is concerned, it obtained- by the decree
below all it was entitled to demand; for the conclusiveness of
its judgment against, Foote is recognized to the- full extent
of its actual interest in it, namely, the amount of its claim
against Hooker & Co. for which the guaranteed notes were
held as collateral security. It has no cause to complain, and
does not complain.
In respect to the assignee of Hooker & Co., he was'not entitled to a dismissal of the cross-bill upon proof merely of the
proceedings and judgment in the bank's suit against Foote;
because, under the evidence in the cause, and for the reasons
already given, that judgment did not estop Foote or his assignee
from showing, as has been done, the illegal character of the
transactions out of which arose the claim of Hooker & Co.
against Foote, and the transfer by the latter of the Couch notes
with guaranty of payment. Consequently, the facts stated in
the pleadings of Pearce as to the proceedings and judgment in
the action against Foote, although established, cannot properly

'FARNSWORTH v. DUFFNER.
Syllabus.

avail him in this suit. The court was at liberty to determine,
under the pleadings and evidence, the relief to which the
rbspeotive parties were entitled.
It is further contended that Rice, the assignee of Foote, was
not one of those authorized by the statute to proceed by bill
in equity or by motion to set aside orvacate a judgment,.mortgage, assurance, bond, note, bill, specialty, covenant, agreement,
act, deed, security or conveyance, given or executed, in violation of the statute relating to gaming and gambling contracts."
We think he was. The evidence shows that the assignment
to him was in good faith and for a valuable consideration. It
is clear that he was a person interested in the object to be
attained by the proceeding which the statute authorizes.
These views sustain the decree below, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. CO EF JUSTICE FULLE and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not
hear the argument, nor take pait in the decision of this case.

FAtANSWORTH v. 'DUFFJNER.
APPEAL FROM TM DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES-FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 69. Argued November 4,1891. -Decided

December 14,1891.

In a suit in equity for the rescission of a contract of purchase, and to recover the moneys paid thereon on the grbund that "it was induced by
the false and fraudulent representations of the vendor, if the means of
knowledge respecting the matters falsely represented are equally open to
purchaser and vendor, the former is charged With knowledge of all that
by the use of such means he could have ascertained: and a fortiori he is
precluded from rescinding the contract and from recovery of the consideration money if it appears that he sivailed himself of those means,
and made investigations, and relied upon the evidences they furnished,
and not upon the representations of the vendor.
Statements by a vendor of real estate to the vendee, (made during the
negotiations for the sale,) as to his own social and political position
and religious associations, are held, even if false, not to be fraudulent,
so as to work a rescission of the contract of sale.
It is no ground for rescinding such a contract that the agents of the ven-

dors, who had received the full purchase money agreed upon, misappropriated a part of it.

