THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

fixing the rights of the parties in the suit. If a case is open
for trial, on the merits, an application for its removal before
that trial commences is made "before the trial thereof." In
our opinion, the interpretation adopted by the court defeats
the purpose which Congress had in view for the protection of
persons sued elsewhere than in the State of which they are
citizens.

THO:MPSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO TEE CIRCUrr OURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THm
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 124.

Argued December 15,16, 1891.

Decided January 11, 1892.

The tax imposed upoi distilled spirits by Rev. Stat. ยง 3251, as amended by
the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 339, c. 127, attaches as soon as the spirits.
are produced, and cannot be evaded except upon satisfactory proof,
under section 3221, of destruction by fire or other casualty.
When distilled spirits upon which a tax has been paid are exported, they are
to be regauged at the port of exportation alongside of, or on, the vessel,
and the drawback allowed is to be determined by this gauge, although a
previous gauge may have shown a greater amount.
The execution of an exportation bond, under the internal revenue laws, is
only evidence of an intention to export;" and it is open to doubt whether
the actual exportation can be considered as beginning until the merchandise leaves the port of exportation for the foreign country.

Tms was an action on a bond in the penal $um of $41,000,
given by the defendant Thompson and his sureties for the
exportation of certain distilled spirits. The bond was dated
October 23, 1885, and after reciting a prior bond given on the
8th of April,'1885, by the same parties, conditioned 'for the
delivery of certain distilled spirits therein named on board
ship at the port of Newport News, Virginia,, for exportation
to Melbourne, Australia, and for the performance of certain
other things therein named, and after further reciting that it
was found desirable to deliver a portion of such spirits on
board ship at the port of New York for exportation to Bre-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

men, namely nine hundred and twenty-nine packages of Bourbon whiskey, the marks and numbers of Which were given, by
certain railways to New York, from distillery warehouse No.
68 in the 8th district of the Stateof Kentucky, was conditioned
"that if the whole of the aforesaid merchandise shall be safely
delivered to the Collector of Customs at the said port of New
York within fifteen days from date hereof, and if the said John
3. Thompson, principal, shall export or cause to be exported the
said merchandise in accordance with the internal revenue laws
and the regulations of the Treasury Department made in pursuance thereof immediately on theariival of said merchandise at
said port of New York, and shallwithin fifteen days thereafter
-produce to the collector of internal revenue for. the 8th district
of the State of Kentucky the certificate of the Collector of Customs of the said port of New York showing that the said merchandise has been duly exported, and shall also produce within
nine months thereafter his certificate that the said merchandise
has been duly landed at the port of Bremen or at some other
port without the'jurisdiction of the United States, or shall produce satisfactory proof of the loss thereof at sea without fault
or.neglect of the owner or shipper thereof as required by law
and regulations, then this obligation to be void," etc.
The breach of the condition of the bond laid in the petition
was that the defendants failed, to deliver to the Collector of
Customs at New York, within fifteen days, or within any
other time, 1065 gallons of the said spirits, as appeared from
a regauge made on October 27, 1885, the object of the suit
being to recover the tax of ninety cents a gallon on the said
deficiency, being $958.50, with interest at the rate of one per
cent per month, and a penalty of five per cent.
The prior bond alluded to in the bond in suit was executed
by the same parties April 8, 1885, and recited that Thompson,
the principal, had made request to the collector of the 8th district of the State of Kentucky for the transportation of 1085
packages of Bourbon Whiskey to the port of Newport News
for exportation, and contained similar conditions to the bond
in suit, except that it provided for exportation by the way of
Newport News, within seven months from the date of such

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

bond, to Melbourne, Australia. It appeared that the 929
packages covered by the bond in suit were part of the 1085
packages covered by the prior bond. It also appeared that
the deficiency of 1065 gallons in the spirits represented the
loss thereon by evaporation and leakage while the 'same were
in warehouse and previous to transportation for export.
The answer, among other things, denied that the said 1065
gallons were removed from the bonded warehouse, or that the
collector ever demanded the tax of the defendants; and further, that the bond in suit was given to meet the requirements
of certain rules and regulations of the Treasury Department,
and that at the time the prior bond was given, April 8, the
spirits on Which it was sought to collect the, tax were in the
packages covered by such bond; that by the acceptance of
said bond of April 8 the spirits referred to therein were free
from any obligation for taxes, and were in due process of exportation on and after such date, to Bremen, Germany, where
they have arrived; and that the tax sued for was a deficiency
tax upon the spirits covered by the bond of October 23, 1885,
which were actually exported, and to allow the recovery of such
tax would be to enforce' an export duty on the spirits exported
as aforesaid, in violation of the prohibition of the Constitution
of the United States in that particular. The answer contained
further averments not necessary to be noticed here. The government demurred to each paragraph of the answer, and the
demurrer was gustained as to all such paragraphs except the
first, upon which there was a trial, resillting in a judgment
and verdict for the full amount claimed, namely, $1023.61,
with interest, etc. A writ of error was sued out from the Circuit Court, by which the judgment of the District Court was
affirmed. A writ of error was thereupon sued out from this
court.
Mr. PAilp B. Thompson, Jr., for appellants.
rf.

A8ie8stant Attorney General Maury for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE Bnowx, after stating the case, delivered -the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Cort.

The sole question presented for our consideration in this
case is whether defendants are liable for the tax upon 1056
gallons of spirits lost by evaporation between the giving of the
first bond in April, 1885, and the second bond on October 23d
of the same year. This depends upon the construction of the
excise laws of Congress regulating the taxing and exportation of distilled spirits manufactured in this country. By
Revised Statutes, section 3248, distilled spirits are defined
to be "that substance known as ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide
of ethyl, or spirit of wine, which is commonly produced by the
fermentation of grain, starch, molasses or sugar, etc.
and the tax shall attack to this substanee as soon as it is in
existence as such." By section 3251, as amended by the act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 339, c. 127: "There shall be levied
and collected on all distilled spirits . . . a tax of ninety
cents on each proof gallon, or wine gallon when below proof,
to be paid by the distiller, owner or person having possession
thereof, before removal from the distillery bonded warehouse."
By section 3293, as amended by the act of May 28, 1880, 21
Stat. 145, provision is made for the entry and deposit of all
spirits removed to the distillery, warehouse, requiring that
"the said distiller or owner shall at the time qf making said
entry give his bond . . . conditioned that the principal
named in said bond shall pay the tax on the spirits as specified
in the entry, or cause the same to be paid, before removal
from said distillery warehouse, and within three years from
the date of said entry. . . . If it shall appear at any
time that there has been a loss of distilled spirits from any
cask or other package hereafter deposited in a distillery warehouse, other than the loss provided for in section 3221 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States" [which authorized. an
abatement of taxes upon satisfactory proof of actual destruction by accidental fire or other casualty while in any distillery
warehouse], "which, in the opinion of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, is excessive, he may instruct the collector
of the district in which the loss has occurred to require the
withdrawal from warehouse, of such distilled spirits, and to
collect the tax accrued upon the original quantity of distilled

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

spirits entered into the warehouse in such cask or package,
notwithstanding that the time specified in any bond given for
the withdrawal of the spirits entered into warehouse in such
cask or package has not expired."
The evident intention of Congress, to be gathered from
these provisions is, that the tax shall attach as soon as the
spirits are produced, and that such tax shall not be evaded
except upon satisfactory proof, under section 3221, of destruction by fire or other casualty.
The spirits covered by this bond were put in defendant
Thompson's own warehouse, and were originally intended to
be entered for exportation to Melbourne, Australia, and in pursuance of such intention, the bond of April 8, 1885, was given.
At this time the spirits were regauged in obedience to section
17 of the act of May 28, 1880, 21 Stat. 149, which provides that
"whenever the owner of any distilled spirits shall desire to
withdraw the same from the distillery warehouse, or from a
special bonded warehouse, he may file with the collector a notice giving a description of the packages to be withdrawn,
and request that the distilled, spirits be regauged.

.

.

.

If

upon such regauging it shall appear that there has been a loss
of distilled spirits from any cask or package, without the fault
or negligence of the distiller or owner thereof, taxes shall be
collected only on the quantity of distilled spirits contained in
such cask or package at the time of the withdrawal thereof
from the distillery warehouse, or special bonded warehouse."
Under this provision of the law an allowance for outage, or
loss by evaporation while in warehouse, was then duly made;
but instead of being exported to Melbourne the spirits were
kept in the warehouse until the period of seven months
named in the bond of April 8, 1885, as the time limited for
exporting, had nearly expired, and until it was too late to
export by the way of Newport News without a breach of the
conditions of the bond. Thereupon the distiller determined to
export the bulk of these packages through the port of New
York to Bremen, and accordingly they were again entered
for exportation, and the second exportation bond of October
23 was executed, under which the exportation was made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

There seems to be no provision in this act for a second regauging, or allowance for outage, in case the spirits are not actually withdrawn from the warehouse after the first regauging,
provided for in section 17. Nor does there seem to have been
any other notice to the collector, or a request for regauging,
as contemplated in that section. It would seem to be just
and equitable, if from any cause, not arisihg from his own
fault, the owner should fail to export the liquors under the
first regauging, he should be entitled, at any time within the
three years provided by the same act, to make another request for regauging, and be entitled to an allowance for any
deficiency for evaporation occurring after the prior regauging;
but the law seems to contemplate but one notice of withdrawal, and the regulation of the commissioner, circular No.
296, requires that where spirits covered .by an exportation
bond are actually removed from the distillery warehouse for
exportation, the gauger shall carefully reinspect each package,
and if an additional outage is found to exist in any of the
packages so inspected, which reduces the number of taxable
gallons in the packages, as. last previously reported, he shall
report the same to the collector, and the collector shall at
once require payment of the tax on the taxable gallons represented by such reduction, even though it is alleged that the
loss is occasioned by a casualty. This regulation was within
the scope of the commissioner's authority and was in force
when the second bond was given.
By Revised Statutes, section 3329, provision is made for
the exportation of distilled spirits "upon which all taxes have
been paid," and minute regulations prescribed for the method
of such exportation, one of which is that "the casks or packages shall be inspected and gauged alongside of or on the vessel
by the gauger designated by said collector, under such rules
and regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe," and "the drawback allowed shall include the taxes
levied and paid upon the distilled spirits exported . . .as
per last gauge of said spirits prior to exportation," etc. By
section 3330, provision is made for the withdrawal of distilled
spirits from bonded warehouses, for exportation in the original

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES4
Opinion of the Court.

casks, without the payment of taxes, under regulations to be
prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with a
proviso "that the bonds required to be given for the exportation of distilled spirits shall be cancelled upon the presentation
of satisfactory proof and certificates that said distilled spirits
have been landed at the port of destination named in the bill
of lading, or upon satisfactory proof that after shipment the
same were lost at sea without fault or neglect of the owner or
shipper thereof."
Taking these provisions together, it is evident that when
spirits upon which the tax has been paid, are exported, they
are regauged at the bort of exportation alongside of or on the
ve8esd, and the drawback allowed is determined by the amount
of this gauge, notwithstanding a previous gauge may have

,shown a greater amount. The result is that the owner receives no drawback upon any deficiency occurring prior to
the last regauge. While section 3330, regulating the export
of spirits upon which the tax has not been paid, does not contain similar provisions, it is very improbable that Congress
should have intended to exempt the deficiency in the case of
exportations without payment of tax, and tax it in case of
drawbacks upon exportations after payment of tax.
Defendant's position that the spirits in this case were in
process of exportation after the *executionofthe bond of April
8 is untenable. Exportation is defined to be the act of carrying or sending merchandise abroad, and it cannot be considered as beginning until the spirits are removed from the
warehouse for that purpose. The execution of the bond is
evidence of nothing more than an intention to export. As
well could the taking out of a passport, or the engagement of
passage upon a transatlantic steamer, be regarded as the commencement of a journey to foreign parts Indeed, it may
admit of doubt whether exportation can be considered as beginning until the merchandise leaves the port of export for' a
foreign country. That the execution of the bond was not the
commencement of exportation is also evident in this case from
the fact that the exportation provided for in the first bond, by
the way of Newport News, was wholly abandoned, and a

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

second bond was executed in October covering an export to
Bremen through the port of New York. As the exportation
which was actually made, was not, contemplated at all when
the first bond was given, how is it possible to say that this
was the beginning of such exportation? If the giving of the
bond can in any sense be said to be the commencement of the
exportation, it must apply to the bond which was given to
cover the export which was actually made, and as the evaporation occurred before that time, we do not think that the
constitutional inhibition against the taxation of articles exported from a State is drawn in question.
As the law contemplated but one withdrawal entry for
exportation, and made allowance only for a deficiency upon
such entry, it was within the power of the collector to assess a
tax upon the deficiency that accrued between the dates of the
two bonds, since that deficiency represented spirits that could
not be exported and were not within the exemption of any
statute.
The act of December 20, 1879, 21 Stat. 59, providing for an
allowance to be made for leakage or loss by any unavoidable
accident "occurring during transportation from a distillery
Warehouse to the port of export," cuts no figure in this case,
since the evaporation occurred before the spirits left the distillery warehouse, and before the execution of the last bond.
The case is doubtless one of considerable hardship to the
defendants, but in view of the exceeding stringency of the
laws with respect to the taxation of distilled spirits, we do not
see our way to relieve them frbm the payment of this tax, and
the judgment of the court below is therefore
Affrmed.
MR. JusTIcE FIELD dissented.

