OCTOBER TERM, 181.
Syllabus.

Colorado, the title which had passed from the United States
to the probate judge, passed from Judge Downing to Hughes
or from Judge Kingsley to Chever. There was no pretence
that the proceedings prescribed by the territorial act were not
in due execution of the trust imposed by the town-site acts, and
the conclusion reached was based purely upon the local law.
Both parties admitted the title of the probate judge, and the
real controversy related to the transfer of that title to one
party or the other. Under these circumstances the writ of
error cannot be sustained, and it must be
Dismim8e&

VAN

STONE v' STILLWELL & BIERCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 113. Submitted November 25,1891.-Decided December 21,1891.

In regard to bills of exceptions Federal courts are independent of any statute or practice prevailing in the courts of the State in which the trial
was had.
Under the pleadings as framed and the issues as made up in this case the
court was bound to admit evidence.
In the absence of a specification wherein evidence offered was improper or
irrelevant this court is bound to presume that it was properly admitted.
A matter resting in the discretion of the trial court is not assignable for
error here.
The overruling of a motion for a new trial in the court below cannot be
assigned for error.
A general exception to the charge of the court as a whole cannot be considered here.
A mechanics' lien is a creature of statute, not created by contract, but by
statute, for the use of the materials, work and labor furnished under the
contract, and the contract is presumably entered into in view of the
statute.
It is settled law in Missouri that a contractor does not waive his right to
file a mechanics' lien by receiving from the owner of the building a
promissory note for the amount due, payable at a time beyond the expiration of the period within which he is required to file his lien; but,

VAN STONE v. STILLWELL & BIERCE I'F'G CO. 129
Statement of the Case.
within the period within which suit must be commenced to enforce the
lien, the taking of the note merely suspends the right of action.
The plaintiff agreed to construct a flour mill for the defendant, the work to
be done at a specified day. After the expiration of that day defendant
wrote to plaintiff that the mill was satisfactory, but that the corn-rolls
did not work to his satisfaction, and that when they were made' to do
satisfactory work he should be ready to pay for the entire work. This
was completed and accepted within about two months., Held, that this
amounted to an agreement to pay if the completion was done within a
reasonable time, and that this was a question for the jury to determine
under proper instructions from the court.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action under a statute of Missouri to have
a mechanics' lien declared and enforced against certain described property, consisting of a mill and grounds, situated in.
Marshall in that State. It was originally brought in one of
the state courts by the Stillwell and Bierce Manufacturing
Company, an Ohio corporation, claiming under an assignment
from one Fred. J. Schupp, against the plaintiff in error, C. H.
Van Stone, and was subsequently removed into the Federal
court, on the ground of diverse citizenship of the parties.
The amended petition, framed under the code practice of
the State, contained three counts. The first was a declaration
on a written contract between Schupp and Van Stone, dated
January 16, 1885, by the terms of which the former agreed to
construct in the elevator building of the latter, in Marshall, a
flouring mill, on the improved roller process, with a capacity
of making from fifty to seventy-five barrels of flour a day and
of grinding from three hundred to four hundred bushels of corn
into meal in a day of twenty-four hours. The contract further
stipulated that the mill should be constructed in a good and
workman-like manner, and, when completed, should be up to the
standard of other mills, and particularly a certain mill known as
the Aulville mill, at Aulville in that State, and should be satisfactory to one Frank Summerville,whose opinion in that respect
was to be binding on both parties to the contract; and that
the materials used in its construction, with the exception of
such as were on the premises, should be furnished by Schupp,
VOL. CXL-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

who was also to be at all the.expense of such construction, the
mill to be completed and ready for use before August 1, 1885.

The price agreed upon for the construction of the mill was
$8200, $500 to be paid April 1, 1885, $500, May 1, 1885,
$1200, upon the delivery of the mill, and for the remainder,
$6000, Van Stone was to give to Schupp his three equal
promissory notes of $2000 each, due in one, two and three
years, respectively, with interest at 7 per cent per annum, payable annually, and which were to be "well secured" on real
estate, the sufficiency of such security to be determined by one
William H. Wood, Esq., of Marshall, or, in the event of his
failure to act, by J. H. Cordell of the same city.
The petition further alleged that Schupp complied fully with
the terms of the above contract, except as to the time when
the mill was to be completed, the machinery for grinding corn
not working satisfactorily at that time, but that, upon this
point, the defendant by an instrument in writing waived his
right to demand a full compliance, and agreed to pay for the
entire work when that portion of it was completed, at the
same time accepting all that part of the work intended for making flour; and that afterwards, to wit, on the 16th of October,
1885, the mill was completed to the satisfaction of said Summerville and was accepted by the defendant, and was turned
over to him, he waiving all exceptions on %ecount of its not
having been completed within the time specified in the contract, and at various stated times previous thereto having paid
thereon a total sum of $3044.12. It was then alleged that the
defendant failed and refused to pay the remainder due on the
contract, or to execute his notes therefor, as agreed upon,
whereupon Schupp took such proceedings under the Missouri
statutd as entitled him to a niechanics' lien on the mill and the
grounds on which it was situated, for the balance due him on
the contract, to wit, $5392.53; and that Schupp, afterwards,
for a valuable consideration, assigned and transferred to the
plaintiff all his accounts against the defendant arising out of
the contract, or in anywise connected with it, including said
mechanics' lien, wherefore plaintiff became entitled to recover
from the defendant said sum of $5392.53, with interest, etc.,

VAN STONE v. STILLWELL & BIERCE M'F'G CO. 131
Statement of the Case.

and also to a mechanics' lien upon the property referred to;
for which amount it prayed judgment and asked that the same
be made a lien upon the property aforesaid, as provided by law.
The second count was in the nature of a count in assumpsit
for labor performed, materials furnished, money paid out,
expended, etc., etc., and sought a recovery against the defendant for the value of the work and labor performed and material furnished by Schupp in the construction of a mill for the
defendant, in a like amount as in the first count stated, and
asked an enforcement of a mechanics' lien upon the mill property, as was done in the first count.
The third count was for extra labor and materials furnished
by Schupp in building a mill under a contract with -the defendant, and like relief was asked.
The answer admitted the contract declared upon in the first
count, but denied every other allegation of the petition, especially those respecting the performance by Schupp of his part
of the contract, and the waiver by defendant as to the time of
the completion of the mill; and claimed damages for the failure of Schupp to complete the mill within the time specified in
the contract, in excess of the amount claimed by the plaintiff
to be due thereon.
A replication was filed, and the case proceeded to trial
before the court and a jury, resulting in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $5898.85, including interest, which judgment was made a lien upon the mill
property, under the provisions of the state statute. To reverse
that judgment this writ of error was sued out.
There was no assignment of errors annexed to and sent up
with the record, as provided by Rev. Stat. ยง 997, but in the
brief of counsel for plaintiff in error the following assignment
occurs:
"(1) The court erred in admitting any evidence in the case.
"(2) The court erred in'submitting the case to the jury, and
entering up a judgment upon the verdict.
"(3) The court erred in refusing to sustain the demurrer to
the evidence offered by plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"(4) The court erred in overruling the motion for new trial
asked by plaintiff in error.
"(5) The court erred in overruling the motion in arrest of
judgment, asked by plaintiff in error.
"(6) The court erred in entering up judgment recognizing
and enforcing a mechanics' lien.
"(7) The court erred in construing exhibit 'A' (which is
letter of Van Stone to Schupp, found at page 16 of printed
record) to be a waiver of the time in which the mill was to be
completed.
"(8) The court erred in overruling the demurrer to the evidence."
.Xh. S.
Stoekslager and Xr. Samuel .M Boyd for plaintiff in error.
Under the contract in this case all cash payments provided
for therein, and about $830 more, had been paid prior to the
completion of the mill, and by the express terms of the contract
the remainder of the contract price was to be paid by notes
and deed of trust on real estate, the notes payable in one, two
and three years after the completion of the mill. The contract
itself shows that the inteiit of the parties was that there should
be no mechanics' lien.
That class of cases in which the taking of a promissory note
is declared not to be a waiver of the lien, are cases where,
under the original contract, the contractor's right to a lien was
not excluded, and where by his work the right to the lien had.
accrued. He could then waive it.
But under a contract, like the one in this case, where the
existence or creation of the lien was by the terms of the contract prohibited or prevented, there could be no such thing as
a waiver of lien. There could be none to waive or lose.
Even if by any breach of the contract by the owner, the
contractor could have been entitled to a lien, he certainly
could not become entitled to it by his own wrong.
In this case the contract was to have the mill completed by
August 1, then to have it tested, and, if not up to contract,
the 'contractor to have fifteen days in which to complete it.

VAN STONE v. STILLWEtL & BIERCE :'F'G CO. 133
Opinion of the Court.

He did not complete it for nearly two months, and then demanded to be paid more money than the contract price.
He was certainly in fault in not completing the mill in time,
and wrong in demanding anything in excess of his contract.
Can he, under such circumstances, abandon a contract by
which he was to be paid in one, two and three years, and demand immediate payment? It would seem to be allowing him
to have an advantage from his own wrong.
No counsel appeared for defendant in error.
M . JusTICE L&wA,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is manifest from an inspection of this assignment that it
is entirely t6o general to meet the requirements of the 21st
rule of this court. It was evidently framed with reference to
the code practice of the State in which the cause was tried;
but nothing is better settled in this court than the proposition
that "in regard to . . . bills of exceptions, courts of the
United States are independent of any statute or practice prevailing in the courts of the State in which the trial was had."
Fi8hbumv v. Chicago, .filwaukee &c. Rail-way Co., 137 U. S.
60. We shall, however, refer to the errors assigned, in detail,
more for the purpose of showing the insufficiency of most of
them, under the rule, than to go into the merits of the case
upon the questions thus attempted to be raised.
It requires nothing more than a mere statement to show
that the first error assigned is without foundation. Under the
pleadings as framed and the issues thus- made up, it was not
only not error for the court to admit evidence in the case, but
it would have been a grave error to have refused to allow the
admission of evidence. Moreover, the record fails to show
that any objection of any kind or character was made by
plaintiff in error to the introduction of evidence.
With respect to the third and eighth errors assigned,.it may
be said that they are as untenable as the first. A general demurrer to the evidence was interposed by the plaintiff in error
at the close of the testimony offered by the plaintiff below,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

(defendant in error,) and the same was overruled, to which
ruling an exception was taken and duly noted. There had
been some evidence offered in support of the contention of the
plaintiff, and the weight of it, under the law, was for the jury
to determine. It is not specified wherein the evidence offered
was improper or irrelevant to prove the issue; and in the
absence of such showing we are bound to presume that the
court committed no error in this respect. The assignment is
too general, under the rule. Moreover, such a motion or proceeding is addressed more to the discretion of the' court than
to the merits of the cause. In the language of this court in
Suydam v. Tilliamson, 20 -How. 427, 436: "A demurrer to
evidence is defined by the best text writers to be a proceeding
by "which the court in which the action is depending is called
upon to decide what the law is upon the facts shown in
evidence, and it is regarded in general as analogous to a demurrer upon the facts alleged in pleading. When a party
wishes to withdraw from the jury the application of the law
to the facts, he may, by consent of the court, demur in law
upon the evidence, the effect of which is to take from the jury
and refer to the court the application of the law to the facts,
and thus the evidence is made a part of the record, and is considered by the court as in the case of a special verdict. A
mere description of the proceeding is sufficient to show that it
is the evidence, and nothing else, that goes upon the record.
Since it was determined that a demurrer to evidence could not
be resorted to as a matter of right, it has fallen into disuse;
and as long ago as 1813 it was regarded by this court as an
unusual proceeding, and one to be allowed or denied by the
court in the exercise of a sound discretion under all the circumstances of the case;" citing Young v. Black, 7 Cranch, 565;
United States Bank v. Smith, 11 Wheat. 171; Fowle v. Common Council of Alexandria, 11 Wheat. 320. Being a matter
resting in the discretion of the trial court, the action of that
court in the premises is not assignable for error.
With respect to the fourth error assigned, it is sufficient to
say that the overruling of a motion for a new trial in the court
below cannot be assigned for error, and no authorities need be
cited in support of the proposition.

VAN STONE

. STILLWELL & BIERCE M'F'G CO. 135
Opinion of the Court.

i The second error assigned is equally vague and without
merit. It could not have been error on the part of the court
to submit the cause to the jury upon the evidence adduced.
The evidence was relevant upon the issues as framed, and the
weight to be given to it lay with the jury, who were the proper
arbiters of the facts in the case. There was a general exception to the charge of the court as a whole, but such an exception cannot be considered here, under well-settled rules of law.
Lucas v. Brooks, 18 Wall. 436; Burtorn v. West Jese ,Ferry
Co., 114 U. S. 474. The verdict was responsive to the issues,
and the judgment of the court followed, as a matter of course.
Pomeroy's Lessee v. Bank of Indiana,1 Wall. 592, 598.
The fifth and sixth alleged errors go more to the merits of
the action than any we have yet considered. "A motion in
arrest of judgment can only be maintained for a defect apparent upon the face of the record, and the evidence is no part of
the record for this purpose." Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604,
608; Carterv. Bennett, 15 How. 354. To bring the case within
this rule it is argued that no evidence was offered tending to
show a compliance on the part of the plaintiff or its assignor
with the mechanics' lien law of Missouri; and that, upon the
verdict rendered by the jury, the court was without authority
to enter up a judgment recognizing and enforcing such a lien.
It is manifest that the motion in arrest of judgment can be
sustained only upon the theory that the court was without
any authority to enter up a judgment recognizing and enforcing a mechanics' len upon the property, since that would be
the only defect upon the face of this record which we could
consider upon such a motion.
The argument against the right of the court to enter up a
judgment recognizing and enforcing a mechanics' lien is based
on the theory that the contract between Schupp and Van.
Stone, under which the mill was built, providing, as it .did,
for the payment of the price in instalments to become due
after the time limited by the statute (9 months) within which
an action to enforce the lien is required to be commenced,
which deferred payments were to be secured upon real estate
of the plaintiff in error, was an express waiver of the lien, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891
Opinion of the Court.

the breach of that contract by Van Stone did not restore to
the contractor his right to claim a lien.
This argument rests upon a misconception as to the nature
and character of a mechanics' lien. This lien is a creature of
the statute, and was not recognized at common law. It may
be defined to be a claim created by law for the purpose of
securing a priority of payment of the price and value of work
performed and materials furnished in erecting or repairing a
building or other structure, and as such it attaches to the land
as well as the buildings erected thereon. 15 Amer. & Eng.
Encyc. Law, 5. Now, it is not the contract for erecting or
repairing the building which creates the lien, but it is the use
of the materials furnished and the work and labor expended
by the contractor, whereby the building becomes a part of the
freehold, that gives the material man and laborer his lien under
the statute. The lien is brought into operation by virtue of
the statute, and the contract for building is entered into presumably in view of, or with reference to, the statute.
The rule seems to be established in Missouri, and it is so in
many of the other States, that a contractor does not waive his
right to file a mechanics' lien by receiving from the owner of
the building a promissory note for the amount due, payable at
a time beyond the expiration of the period within which he is
required to file his lien, but within the period within which
suit must be commenced to enforce the lien, the taking of the
note merely suspending the right of action. Afc lurray.v.
Taylor, 30 Missouri, 263; Aslidown v. Becker, 31 Missouri,
465; Jones v. Hurst, 67 Missouri, 568, 572. This rule is based
upon the principle, recognized in that State, that the execution
of a note for a preexisting debt is not a payment of the debt,
but only presumptively so; but a party relying upon that principle must, in an action on the original debt, produce the note
for cancellation. Authorities last cited; Brooks v. AEast n, 69
Missouri, 58; Doebling v. Zoos, 45 Missouri, 150.
Under this rule of law, the contention of the plaintiff in
error must fail. For, a fortiori,would the right to file the
lien remain, where, as in this case, no notes were given at all,
but the agreement to give them was broken by the owner of

VAN STONE v. STILLWELL & BIERCE M'F'G CO. 137
Opinion of the Court.

the building and premises. That agreement out of the way,
the contractor or builder or material man occupied a .status
created by the law, viz., was possessed of a right to claim a mechanics' lien. This claim, it is admitted in the record, he
asserted in accordance with the law, and this suit was brought
by his assignee for the enforcement of such claim. The original contract for payment of the amount due on the contract
in instalments having been broken by the plaintiff in error,
the defendant in error had the right to elect to declare the
whole sum due at once, and proceed to the enforcement of its
lien, It follows, therefore, that there was no error in the
action of the court in entering up a judgment recognizing and
enforcing such lien. That being true, there was no error, so
far as this record shows, in overruling the motion made in
arrest of judgment.
But one alleged error remains to be considered, viz., the
sevefith. Exhibit "A," referred to therein, is a letter from
Van Stone to Schupp, as follows:
" Marshall, Mo., Aug. 6, 1885.
"F. J. Schupp, Esq., Marshall.
"Dear Sir: The flour mill put up by you for me is satisfactory to me and is hereby accepted. The corn-rolls do not
work to my satisfaction. Whenever such rolls are put in or
shall do satisfactory work. I shall be ready to pay for the
entire work
"C. H. VAX STON."
It is urged that the court below erred in construing this
letter to be a waiver of the time within which the mill ias to
be built. So far as concerns that portion of the letter relating
to the part of the mill used for the manufacture of flour, it is
an unconditional acceptance. It could not be made more
positive. Nor do we think the latter part of the letter relating to the corn-rolls is susceptible of any other construction
than the one put upon it by the court. By the language there
used the plaintiff in error bound himself to pay for the entire
work whenever it should be completed so that the corn-rolls

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Motion.

would do satisfactory work. There is nothing in that letter
to indicate that any particular time was in the minds of the
parties as to when such work was to be completed. Of course,
the law implies that the completion of the work should not be
unnecessarily prolonged, It should be done in a reasonable
time. It was completed on or before October 16, 1885, for on
that day it was accepted as satisfactory by Summerville, who,
as before stated, had been agreed upon as a referee to determine when the mill did satisfactory work. Whether tfie period
between August 6 and October 16, during which time the
corn-rolls were being perfected, was an unreasonable time, or
too great a delay, was in reality a question for the jury.to
determine, under proper instructions from the court. As no
error is assigned to the charge of the court in this respect, and
no exception was taken to the charge as given, except to it as
an entirety, it must be presumed that no error was committed
in this behalf; and that the jury found all the elements of an
acceptance, by the plaintiff in error, of the completed mill.
Judgment afflrmed.

WAUTON v. DEWOLF.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1450.

Submitted December 7,1891. -Decided

December 21,1891.

This court has no jurisdiction over an appeal from a Circuit Court taken
July 27, 1891, from a decree entered July 7, 1890, in a case where
the jurisdiction of that court depended upon the diverse citizenship of
the parties.

THIs was a motion to vacate an order docketing and dismissing this case, made'on the 3d of last November, on the motion
of appellees' counsel, and for leave to the appellant to docket
the case and file the record. The case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. W. ffaZlett Pkillips for the motion.

