PACIFIC EXPRESS COMTANY v. SEIBERT.

339

Statement of the Case.

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT bF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 983.

Submitted November 9, 1891. -Decided

January 4, 1892.

A bill in equity which alleges (1) that a statute of a State imposes a tax
upon interstate commerce, and is therefore void as forbidden by the
Constitution of the United States, and which sets out the provision
complained of from which it appears that the tax was imposed only on
business done within the State, (2) that the act denies to the complainant
the equal protection of the laws of the State, and is therefore void by
reason of violating the Fourteenth Amendment; and (3) that the act is
not uniform and equal in its operation,.and is void by reason of repugnance to the constitution of the State; and which seeks on these grounds
an injunction against the collection of the tax, presents no ground justifying the interposition of a court of equity to enjoin the collection of the
tax.
The act of the legislature of Missouri of May 16, 1889, "to define express
companies, and to prescribe the mode of taxing the same, and to fix the
rate of taxation thereon," imposes a tax only on business done within
the State, and does not violate the requirements of uniformity and
equality of taxation prescribed by the constitution of the State of
Missouri.
Diversity of taxation, both with respect to the amount imposed and the
various species of property selected, either for bearing its burdens or
for being exempt from them, is not inconsistent with a perfect uniformity and equality in taxation, and of a just adaptation of property to
its burdens.
A system of taxation which imposes the same tax upon every species of
property, irrespective of its nature, or condition, or class, will be destructive of the principle of uniformity and equality in taxation, and of
a just adaptation of property to its burdens.
A state statute which defines af express company to be persons and corporations 'who carry on the business of transportation on contracts for
hire with railroad or steamboat companies, does not invidiously discriminate against the express companies, defined by it, and in favor of other
companies or persons carrying express matter on other conditions, or
under different circumstances.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was a suit in equity by the Pacific Express Company,
a Nebraska corporation, against John M. Seibert, state auditor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and John M. Wood, attorney general, of the State of Missouri,
to restrain and enjoin the collection of certain alleged illegal
taxes assessed against the company under the provisions of an
act of the Missouri legislature, which was claimed to be in conflict with the constitution of Missouri and the Constitution of
the United States.
The act in'question, approved May 16, 1889, is as follows:
" SEcTnON 1. Any person, persons, joint-stock association,
company or corporation incorporated under the laws of any
State, Territory or country conveying to, from or through this
State or any part thereof, money, packages, gold, silver, plate,
articks, goods, merchandise or effects of any kind by express
on contract with any railroad or steamboat company or the
managers, lessees, agents or receivers thereof (not including
railroad companies or steamboats engaged in the ordinary
transportation of merchandise and property in this State) shall
be deemed to be an express company.
"S.E. 2. Every such express company shall annually, between the first day of April .and the first day of May, make
and deliver to the state auditor a statement, verified by the
oath of the officer or agent making such report, showing the
entire receipts for buiiness done within this State of each agent
of such company dbing business in this State for the year then
next preceding the first day of April for and on account of
such company, including its proportion of gross receipts for
business done by such company in connection with other companies: Provided, that the amount which any express company
actually pays to the railroads or steamboats within this State
for the transportation of their freight within this State may
be deducted from the gross receipts of such company as above
'ascertained; and provided further, that said amount paid to
the various railroad or steamboat companies for transportation
shall be itemized, showing the amount paid to each railroad or
steamboat company; and provided further, that nothing herein
contained shall release such express companies from the assessment and taxation of their tangible property in the manner
that other tangible property is assessed and taxed. Such company making statement of such receipts shall include as such

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.

341

Statement of the Case.

all sums earned or charged for the business done within this
State for such preceding year, whether actually received or
not. Such statement shall contain an abstract of the amount
received in each county and the total amount received for all
the counties. In case of the failure or refusal of such express
company to make such statement before the first day of May
it shall then be the duty of each local agent of such express
company within this State annually, between the first day of
May and the first day of June, to make out and forward to the
state auditor a similar verified statement of the gross receipts
of his agency for the year then next preceding the first day of
April. When such statement is made such express company
shall at the time of making the same pay into the treasury of
the State the sum of two dollars on each one hundred dollars
of such receipts; and any such express company failing or
refusing for more than thirty days after the first day of June
in each year to render an accurate account of its receipts in
the manner above provided and to pay the required tax thereon
shall forfeit one hundred dollars for each additional day such
statement and payment shall be delayed, to be recovered in an
action in the name of the State of Missouri on the relation of
the state auditor in any court of competent jurisdiction, and
the attorney general shall conduct such prosecution; and such
company, corporation or association so failing or refusing shall
be prohibited from carrying on said business in this State until
such payment is made." Stats. Missouri, 1889, p. 52.
The bill, filed on the 17th of June, 1890, contained substantially the following material averments: At the date of the
passage of the aforesaid act of the legislature, the complainant
was, and ever since that date has been, engaged in the business
of conveying valuable articles to, from and through the State
of Missouri and various parts of that State, by express, at the
same time providing its own transportation, under contracts
with the Missouri Pacific and other railroad companies operating lines in that State, to convey the property bailed to it.
In the prosecution of such business, complainant, under contracts of hire, receives and has received, property at various
,points in other States and conveys it to various places in Mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

souri, and also property in Missouri which it conveys to points
in other States. At the time and during the period mentioned
there were other persons and corporations engaged in a like
business in the State of Missouri, who either owned their own
transportation facilities or procured the same by hire from persons not a railroad or steamboat company, or any one connected
with such corporations.
The bill then averred that if the act of the legislature aforesaid was a valid law, complainant would be required to pay
taxes to the State for the year ending April 1, 1890, in the
estimated sum of over $12,000, and if the act was a valid law
only in respect to the gross receipts upon such business as complainant had done between points wholly in the State of Missouri, and void as to gross receipts upon its business done
'between points Within the State and points in other States,
then complainant would be required to pay taxes. for such
period in the sum of over $3000; that complainant was willing
to pay any taxes which might be found to have been legally
assessed against it, but it declared that the aforesaid act of the
kissouri legislature was not a valid law, because it sought to
impose a tax upon the business of interstate commerce in which
complainant was engaged, and was, therefore, violative of the
Constitution of the United States.
The bill then averred that neither the tax of tWo per cent
mentioned- in section 2 of the act of the legislature, nor any
other equivalent tax was imposed by that act or any other
jaw of the State, upon other common carriers engaged in similar business as complainant, who do not hire transportation by
"contract with any railroad or steamboat company," etc. ; that
there'was no provision in that act in respect to the equalization
of the taxes required to be levied under it, by state and county
boards of equalization, .as in the case of other state taxes, and
the tax assessed under said act was not uniform; and it was
claimed, therefore, that the act was violative of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States because
it denied to the complainant the equal protection of the lafs,
and was also violative of § 3, art. 10, of the constitution of
Missouri, because the taxes levied were not "uniform upon the

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.

343

Argument fbr Appellant.

same class of subjects within the territorial limits of the authority levying the tax."
The bill also averred that the act under consideration was
violative of certain other mentioned provisions of the constitution of Missouri; and that the defendants, being the officials
charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions thereof,
would proceed to enforce the same, unless restrained by the
order or process of the court, by instituting legal proceedings
to collect said taxes and the penalties prescribed, and would
thereby prohibit complainant from carrying on its business in
Missouri, whereby complainant would be subjected to and
harassed by a multiplicity of suits, and would suffer great and
irreparable loss and damage, for which it had no adequate
remedy at law.
'Wherefore an injunction was prayed to restrain the oollection of said taxes, and a decree was asked adjudging the aforesaid act of the legislature of Missouri invalid and unconstitutional, together with a -prayer for such other and further
relief as might appear equitable and just.
Upon the filing of the bill and upon hearing argument of
counsel for both sides of the controversy, the court, on the
23d of June, 1890, granted a temporary injunction, as-prayed.
The defendants then demurred to the bill, .upon three
grounds: (1) that it did not state facts sufficient to entitle
complainant to the relief prayed; (2) that there was no equity
in it; and, (3) that it appeared from the bill that complainant
had an adequate remedy at law. The demurrer was sustained,
and a decree was entered dissolving the temporary injunction
and dismissing the bill for want of equity. 44 Fed. Rep. 310.
From that decree the complainant appealed, and the case is
now here for consideration.
_Mr. Westel W. .Morsmanfor appellant.
I. The State does not permit itself to be sued, and the act
requires the tax to be paid to the state treasurer, under penalties for failure to do so, grossly disproportioned to the
injuries the State would suffer by delay. It is evident that

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

tho State intended to coerce submission. Under these circumstances the only complete remedy is in equity. It is not necessary, in order to sustain the remedy in equity, to show there
is no'remedy at law. It is sufficient if the remedy at law be
substantially less adequate,than in equity. 0ilbourn v. Sunderland, 130 U. S. 505; 8ullivan v. Portland ci Kennebec
Railroad,94: U. S. 806; Wfylie v. Coxe, 14: How. 1-; Boyce v.
Grundy, 3 Pet. 210; Osborn v. Bank of the United States,
9 Wheat. 738, 839; Allen v. Balt. & Ohio Railroad, 114
U. S.311; Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U. S.153; Poindexter v. Greenkow, 114.U. S.270; .Evansville Bank v. Bvltton, 105 U. S.322; Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U.. S.319;
Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689; Pennoyer v. XfcConnaughy,
140 U. S. 1.
II. By the terms of the act it applies to gross receipts
from transportation ".to, from or through this State, or any
part thereof;" to the "entire receipts from business done
within this State;" and to the "proportion of gross receipts
for business done by such company in connection with other
companies." Whether these words embrace interstate traffic
is the decisive question. State Freight Tam Case, 15 Wall.
232.
"Business" is a broad, generic term. It embraces, in this
connection, every transaction, every service performed within
the State, from which receipts are derived. It is as easily
and as rationally applied to that portion of interstate transportation which is within the State, as to transportation
which originates and terminates within it. -Each is, equally,
"business" done within the State. Interstate commerce may
not, correctly speaking, be "business done within the State."
But the latter is always included in the former. "Business"
done within the State may be, and often is, interstate commerce, because of its being an essential part of transportation
which originates or terminates beyond the lines of the State.
Reading tho words "business done ,within the State," in connection with the words "to, from or through the State, or
any part thereof," as used in the first section, there seems to
be no reason to doubt that it was the intention of the legisla-

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.

345

Argument for Appellant.

ture to include that portion of transportation which should be
performed withiu the State, notwithstanding it may have
originated or terminated beyond the lines of the State. In
embracing carriers engaged in carrying "to" the State, the
legislature had in mind those carriers who take goods at points
in other States and deliver them within the State. It used the
word "to" in the sense of "into," which is not very uncommon.
Articles taken up in another State to be delivered within
the State of Missouri, or to be carried through and across the
State, or taken up within the State to be carried out and
delivered at points in other States, would, so far as the carriage
within the State of Missouri is concerned, be "business done
within the State," by any rule of interpretation that does not
ignore the plain and obvious meaning of the words of the
act. A court should, if it consistently can, so interpret an act
of a legislature as to save it from objection on constitutional
grounds. But it cannot ignore the words of the act, or their
clear and ordinary meaning, upon an assumption that the
legislature understood the situation, and would not knowingly
exceed its powers.
In Philade~phia fic. Stearizhip Co. v. Pensylvania, 122
U. S. 326, this court would hardly have gone into the constitutional question, if the case could have been correctly decided
by simply holding that the words "doing business within the
State," "ex vi termini, import business begun and ended within
the State, and include only intra-state and not inter-state commerce;" and in Fargo v. -Michigan,.121 U. S.230, the State
sought to impose a tax upon gross receipts "for freight earned
within the State." These words are not materially different
in meaning or scope from the words of the act in question
in the case at bar. But this court decided the ecase upon constitutional grounds, not intimating that the act did not apply
to interstate commerce.
III. This statute violates that provision in the Fourteenth
Amendment which prohibits any State from denying to any
person within its jurisdiction, the equal protection of its laws;
and is in violation of that provision, of the constitution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

I%

State, which requires all taxation to be uniform in respect to
the subjects upon which it is levied, within the district levying
the tax. The provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, and the provision referred
to in the constitution of the State, are equally provisions requiring equal and uniform laws, so far as they relate to the
subject in controversy in this suit. There is no difference in
principle, between these provisions; but the object of the provision of the Constitution of the United States, was to take
the subject of equal legislation under the protection of the
national constitution. As applied to the subject of taxation, it
requires that all taxation shall be equal and uniform, in respect
to all persons and corporations within the jurisdiction of the
State, under like circumstances and conditions. Barblier v.
Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; A'fissouri Pacif Railway v. Huumes,
115 U. S. 512; Dent v. Vest Virginia, 129 U. S. 114; .Mi8sduri "PacifcRailway v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; Home Insurance. Co. v. 1New York, 134 U. S. 594; .ick TWo v. Jopkins,
118 U. S. 356.
The provision of the constitution in question has received
legislative interpretation. By Rev. Stat. § 1977, it is enacted,
for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the constitutional
amendment, that all persons within the jurisdiction of the
United States shall have the same right in every State and
Territory, and be "subject to like punishment, pains, penalties, taxes, licenses and exactions of every kind, and to no
other." In order to determine whether or not the act of the
legislature is uniform and equal, as required by the constitutional provisions referred to, it is necessary to ascertain the
sphere of operation of the act. If, within this sphere of operation, it affects all persons equally and uniformly under like circumstances-and conditions, it is not obnoxious to the provision
of either constitution. But, on the other hand, if it create a
burden upon some persons and not upon others, under the same
circumstances and conditions, it is then an obvious violation
of these. constitutional provisions.
The legislature, in defining what should constitute an express
company for the purposes of the act, evidently intended to

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.

347

Argument for Appellant.

exclude all express companies or persons doing the business
described in the act, who own their own lines of transportation or procure transportation facilities by contract with some
other person or corporation than a railroad or steamboat company. Yet it is obvious that a railroad company doing the
character of business specified in the section defining an express company, over its own line of railroad, would still be an

express company with respect to that particular business, notwithstanding any effort of the legislature to exclude it by
definition. The legislature can no more say that a railroad
company, prosecuting the business referred t6 in this act, is
not, in fact, an express company, than it can say that a black
man carrying on the dry goods business is not a dry goods
merchant equally with a white man prosecuting the same business. The mere fact that one corporation or person denominates itself an express company, while the other denominates
itself a railroad company, affords no distinction that will justify the legislature in saying that one is an express company
and the other is not, when it proposes to levy a tax upon the
pursuit or occupation in which each are alike engaged. The
" business" is precisely the same in both cases. Both parties
are engaged in the same occupation, and no definition can
change it. It is the occupation or business which the legislature proposes to tax. It cannot make a discrimination not
based upon any intrinsic difference in the occupation, but resting solely upon the mere difference of name in the parties pursuing it, without raising a discrimination prohibited by each
of the constitutional provisions referred to.
I do not deny that the legislature may classify subjects for
the purposes of taxation, but it cannot do so, arbitrarily, by
legislation having no reference to an intrinsic difference of
circumstances and conditions. It cannot, arbitrarily, divide
those engaged, or who may engage, in the same business, into
different classes, imposing burdens upon one and exempting
another. This is not classification at all, but a mere division
of the same class, or subject of taxation. It is discrimination,
pure and simple. See Kentiucky RailroadTax Cases, 115 U. S.
321; State v. .. eadington Township, 3-6 N. J. Law (7Vroom)

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

66; Lexington v. ffcQuinlan, 9 Dana, 513; S. C. 35 Am. Dec.
159; Field v. Highland County, 36 Ohio St. 476; St. Louis
v. Bowler, 94 Missouri, 630; St. Louis v. Spiegels, 75 Missouri,
145; People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539; Evansville Bank v.
Britton, 105 U. S. 322; San -Mateo County v. Southern Pacific
Railroad,8 Sawyer, 238; Santa Clara County v. Southern
Pacific Railroad,9 Sawyer, 165; PullmanPalace Car Co. v.
Texas, 64 Texas, 274; People v. Central Pacifwo Railroad,83
California, 393.
.AV. John .M. Wood, Attorney General of the State of
Missouri, for appellees.
Ym. JUsTicE

LAY2-& delivered the opinion of the court.

According to the view we take of the case, it is not necessary to inquire intb the special equities set forth in the bill
and relied upon in the argument for complainant to show that
this record presents a case for the interposition of a federal
court, for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of a state tax. The primary and fundamental ground on
which the maintenance of such a suit rests is the unlawfulness
of the tax against which relief is sought, or, in other words,
the invalidity or unconstitutionality of the legislative act
under the authority of which the tax is imposed. It is true
that this ground is not in itself sufficient. But when the illegality of the tax or the invalidity or unconstitutionality of the
legislative act under which it is imposed is established, it becomes necessary to go further, and make out a case that can
be brought under some recognized head of equity jurisdiction:
such as, that the collection of the tax sought to be restrained
may entail a multiplicity.of suits; or cause some other irreparable injury, as, for instance, the ruin of complainant's business;
or, where the property is real estate, throw a cloud up6n the title
of the complainant. Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591, 594;
Allen v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 139 U. S.658, 661.
It is contended in behalf of the complainant (1) that the
statute of Missouri, under the provisions of which the tax
sought to be restrained is levied, imposes a tax uyuon interstate

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.

349

Opinion of the Court.

commerce, and to that extent is forbidden by the Constitution
of the United States, and is, therefore, void; (2) that the act
denies to the complainant the equal protection of the laws of
the State of Missouri, and is, therefore, void by reason of its
being violative of the fourteenth amendment of the Constitution of the United States; and, (3) that the act is not uniform
and equal in its operation, and is void by reason of its repug
nance to section three of article ten of the constitution of the
State of Missouri.
We do not think that these propositions, taken in connection
with-the averments of the bill, present any ground justifying
the interposition, of a court of equity to enjc in the collection
of the tax imposed by the statute in question. The first
proposition, that the statute imposes a tax upon interstate
commerce, and is, therefore, violative of what is known as the
commercial clause of the constitution, is unsound. It is well
settled that a State cannot lay a tax upon interstate compiierce
in any form, whether by way of duties laid on the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or the receipts derived
from that transportation, or on the occupation or business of
carrying it on; for the reason that such taxation is a burden
on that commerce and amounts to a regulation of it which belongs to Congress. -Lyng v. .Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; Zeloup
v. Port of .lobile, 127 U. S.640; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Alal'ama, 132 U. S. 472;. AX Call v. California,136 U. S. 104;
ofolk & Vestern, Railroadv. Pennsylvania,136 U. S. 114.
,The question on this branch of the case, therefore, is, - Was
the business of this express company in the State of Missouri, on
the receipts from which the tax in question was assessed under
this act, interstate commerce? The allegation of the bill is
very positive that in the prosecution of its business as an express company the complainant is engaged, in part, in the
transportation of goods and other property between the States
of Nebraska, Kansas, Texas and other States of the Union
and the State of Missouri; and also in the business of carrying goods between different points within the limits of the
State of Missouri. The question on this point, therefore, is
narrowed down to the single inquiry, whether the tax con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

plained of in any way bears upon or touches the interstate
traffic of the company, or whether, on the other hand, it is
confined to its intra-state business. We think a proper construction of the statute confines the tax which it creates to the
intra-state business, and in no way relates to the interstate
business of the company. The act in question, after defining
in its first section what shall constitute an express company or
what shall be deemed to be such in the sense of the act, requires such express company to file with the state auditor an
annual report "showing .the entire receipts for business done
within this State of each agent of such company doing business in this State," etc., and further provides that the amount
which any express company pays "to the railroads or steamboats within this State for the transportation of their freight
within this State" may be deducted from the gross receipts of
the company on such business; and the act also requires the
company making a statement of its receipts to include, as
such, all sums earned or charged "for the business done
within this State," etc. It is manifest that these provisions of
the statute, so far from imposing a tax upon the receipts derived from the transportation of goods between other States
and the State of Missouri, expressly limit the tax to receipts for
the sums earned and charged for the business done within the
State. This positive and oft-re.peated limitation to business
done within the State, that 'is, business begun and ended
within the State, evidently intended to exclude, and the language employed certainly does exclude, the idea that the tax
is to be imposed upon the interstate business of the company.
"Business done within this State" cannot be made to mean
business done between that State and other States. We,
therefore, concur in the view of the court below that it was
not the legislative intention, in the enactment of this statute, to
impinge upon interstate commerce, or to interfere with it in any
way whatever; and that the statute, when fairly construed,
does not in any manner interfere with interstate commerce.
The 'second and third propositions stated above are reducible to the single contention, that the act in question violates the
requirements of uniformity and equality of taxation prescribed

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.

351

Opinion of the Court.

by the constitution of Missouri, and thereby denies -to the
complainant the equal protection of the laws of the State
which the Fourteenth Amendment to the constitution guarantees shall not be abridged by state action.
This court has repeatedly laid down the doctrine that diversity of taxation, both with. respect to the amount imposed and
the various species of property selected either for bearing its
burdens or for being exempt from them, is not inconsistent
with a perfect uniformity and equality -of taxation in the
proper sense of those .terms; and that a system which imposes
the same tax upon every species ,of property, irrespective of
its nature or condition or class, will be destructive of the
principle of uniformity and equality in taxation and of a just
adaptation of property to its burdens.
The rules of taxation, in this respect, were well stated in
the opinion of the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley, in
Bell'8 Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 134: U. S. 232, 231, as
follows: "The provision in the Fourteenth Amendment, that
no State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws, was not intended to prevent a
State from adjusting its system of taxation in all proper and
reasonable ways. It may, if it chooses, exempt certain classes
of property from any taxation at all, such as churches, libraries and the property of charitable institutions. It may impose
different specific taxes upon different trades aid professions,
and may vary the rates of excise upon various products; it
may tax real estate and personal property in a different manner; it may tax visible property only, and not tax securities
for payment of money: it may allow deductions for indebtedness, or not allow them. . . . It would, however, be 'impracticable and unwise to attempt to lay down any general
rule or definition on the subject, that would include all cases.
They must be decided as they arise. We think that we are
safe in saying, that the Fourteenth Amendment was nQt intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule of equal taxation. If that were its proper construction,-it would not only
supersede all those constitutional provisions and laws of some
of the States, whose object is to secure equality of taxation,

OCTOBER TERg, 1891:
Opinion of the Court.

and which are usually accompanied with qualifications deemed
material; but it would render nugatory those discriminations
which the best interests of society require; which are necessary for the encouragement of needed and useful industries,
and the discouragement of intemperance and vice; and which
every State, in one form or another, deems it expedient to
adopt."
In Rome Ins. Co. v. ifew York, 134: U. S. 594, 606, 607,
the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, said: "But the
Amendment [the Fourteenth] does not prevent the classification of property for taxation - subjecting one kind of property
to one rate of taxation, and another kind of property to a different rate- distinguishing between franchises, licenses and
privileges, and visible and tangible property, and'between real
and personal property. Nor does the amendment prohibit
special legislation. Indeed, the greater part of all legislation
is special, either in the extent to which it operates, or the
objects sought to be obtained by it. And when such legislation applies to artificial bodies, it is not open to objection if
all such bodies are treated alike under similar circumstances
and conditions, in respect to the privileges conferred upon
them and the liabilities to which they are subjected. Under
the statute of New York all corporations, joint stock companies and associations of the same kind :are subjected to the
same tax. There is the same rule applicable to all, under the
same conditions, in determining the rate of taxation. There
is no discrimination in favor of one against another of the
same class;" citing a long list of authorities.
The contention of the complainant, however, in this connection is, that the rule of uniformity and equality of taxation is
destroyed by the arbitrary discrimination involved in the definition of what shall be taxed under the act, imposing upon certain persons or associations taxes from which other persons or
companies of precisely the same kind, doing exactly the same
kind of business, under exactly the same conditions, are exempt.
In other words, the. contention is, that the act of the legislature arbitrarily defines what shall constitute an express company, and then lays a tax upon its business, while at the same

PACIFIC EXPRESS COMPANY v. SEIBERT.

353

Opinion of the Court.

time it permits the same kind of business to be done by any
person or company not embraced within the class thus defined,
without being subject to any tax at all. It is said that the
act, by the very terms of its definition, restricts the tax to
persons or corporations. who carry on the business of transportation on contractsfor hire with railroador steamboat campanies doing business within the State; and that it permits
any person or company that may be so fortunate as to own its
own means of transportation to go free from any such tax.
That is to say, an express company that engages for hire a
railroad or steamboat company to transport its merchandise
must pay a tax for the privilege of doing business, while the
railroad or steamboat company owning its own means of
transportation might, in connection with the business for
which it was primarily chartered, engage in the express business without paying any tax whatever on the privilege of
carrying on such express business. It is strenuously argued,
therefore, that this is an unjust discrimination against the
express companies defined by the act, and in favor of other
companies or persons that may, in connection with their primary or original business, engage in the express -business, or
that may carry on a separate express business, owning their
own means of transportation.
The fallacy of this argument lies in the assumption that the
definition of what shall constitute an express company excludes from the classification companies which are as much
engaged in the business, or as much under the same conditions,
as are those which, under the definition,, are subject to the
tax.
The legislation in question cannot. be considered as invidiously discriminating against the express companies defined by
it and in favor of other companies or persons that may carry
express matter on certain other conditions or under different
circumstances. There 'is an essential difference between express companies defined by this act and railroad or steamboat
companies or other companies that own their own means of
transportation. The vital distinction is this: Railroad companies pay taxes on their road-beds, rolling stock and other
voL. cx

-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tangible property as well as, generally, upon their £ranchise;
and steamboat companies likewise pay a tax upon their tangible property. This tax is not necessarily an ad valorem tax
at the same rate as is paid on other private property in the
State belonging to individuals. Generally, indeed, it is not,
but is often determined by other means and at different rates,
according to the will of the state legislature. Kentucky Railroad Tax Cmes, 115 U. S. 321, 337. On the other hand, express companies, such as are defined by this act, have no tangible property, of any consequence, subject to taxation under
the general laws. There is, therefore, no way by which they
can be taxed at all unless by a tax upon their receipts for business transacted. This distinction clearly places express cornpanies defined by this act in a separate class from companies
owning their own means of transportation, They do not do
business under the same conditions, or under similar circumstances. In the nature of things, and irrespective of the definitive legislation in question, they belong to different classes.
There can be no objection, therefore, to the discrimination made
as between express companies defined by this act and other
companies or persons incidentally doing a similar business by
different means and methods, in the manner in which they are
taxed. Their different nature, character and means of doing
business justify the discrimination in this respect which the
legislature has seen fit to impose. The legislation in question
does not discriminate between companies brought within the
class defined in the first section; and such companies being so
entirely dissimilar, in vital respects, as regards the purposes
and policy of taxation, from railroad companies and the like
owning a large amount of tangible and other property subject
to taxation unler other and different laws, and upon other and
different principles, we do not see how, under the principles of
the many decisions of this court upon the subject, it can be
held violative either of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, or of the provision in the constitution of Missouri, relating to equality and uniformity of
taxation. See Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Soon Ring
v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; Dent v. We8t Virginia, 129 U. S.

CHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.
Citations for Plaintiffs in Error.

114; .Msouri
X
Pafc
Bailway v. fumes, 115 U. S. 512;
St. Louis v. TWeber, 44 Missouri, 54:7; Germania Life Ins. Co.
v. Commonwealth, 85 Penn. St. 513; .Xissouri v. Welton, 55
Missouri, 288.
The opinion of the court below on this branch of the case is
elaborately argued, and is conclusive. We concur in the reasoning of it as well as in the language employed, and refer to
it as a correct expression of the law upon the subject.

-Decree affirmed.

CHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.
HEOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRIOT OF COLORADO.
No. 103.

Submitted November 24, 1891.-

Decided January 4,1892.

A statement, in the bond of a municipal corporation, that it is issued under
the provisions of the act of the general assembly of Colorado of February 21, 1881, and in conformity with its provisions; that all the requirements of law have been fully complied with; that the total amount of
the issue-does not exceed the limits prescribed by the constitution of
that State; and that the issue of the bonds had been authorized by a vote
of a majority of the duly qualified electors of the county, voting on the
question at a general election duly held, estops the county, in an action
by an innocent holder for value, to recover on coupons of such bonds,
from denying the truth of these recitals.
When there is an express recital upon the face of a municipal bond that the
limit of issue prescribed by the state constitution has not been passed,
and the bonds themselves do not show that it had, the holder is not
bound to look further.
Lake County v. Graham, 130 U. S. 674, and Dixon County v. Field, 111 U. S.
83, affirmed and distinguished from this case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Hr. Thomas .Macon, for plaintiffs in error, cited: .AoOlure
v. Township of Oxford, 94 U. S. 429; Town of Coloma v.

