OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

We think this case comes fairly within the principles of those
just cited; and that it is not governed by Dixon County v.
.Fieldand Lake County v. Graham,but is distinguishable from
them, in the essential particulars above noted.
Judgment affirmed.
MRt. JUSTICE GRAY dissented.

DOON TOWNSIP v. OUMMINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 883. Submitted January 6,1891. -Decided

January 4,1892.

By virtue of Art. 11, sec. 3 of the constitution of Iowa of 1857, which
ordains that "no county, or other political or municipal corporation, shall
be allowed to become indebted in any manner, or for any purpose, to
an amount in the aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of the
taxable property within such county or corporation-to be ascertained
by the last state and dounty tax lists, previous to the incurring of such
indebtedness," negotiqble bonds, in excess of the constitutional limit,
issued by a school district, and sold by its treasurer, for the purpose of
applying the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the outstanding
bonded indebtedness-of the diArict, pursuant to the statute of Iowa of
1880, c. 132, are void as against one who purchases them from the district with knowledge that the constitutional limit is thereby exceeded.

THE original action was brought by Theron Cummins,-a citizen df Illinois, on coupons attached to negotiable bonds issued
by the defendant, a district township of Iowa, under the statute bf Iowa of 1880, c. 132, the material provisions of which
are copied in the margin.'
1 SEC. 1. Any independent school district or district township now or
hereafter having a bonded indebtedness outstanding is hereby authorized to
issue negotiable bonds at any rate of interest not exceeding seven per cent
per annum, payable semi-annually, for the purpose of funding said indebtedness, said bonds to be issued upon a resolution of the board of directors
of said district: provided, that said resolution shall not be valid unless
adopted by a two-thirds vote of said directors.

DOON TOWNSHIP v. CUMMINS.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant denied the validity of the bonds, on the
ground that they were issued in violation of the constitution
of Iowa of 1857, art. 11, sec. 3, likewise copied in the margin.'
A jury was duly waived, and the case was submitted to the
Circuit Court, which found the following facts:
The defendant is a school district in Lyon County, Iowa,
having power to contract in its corporate name, and to issue
negotiable bonds. From the date of its organization its affairs
have been badly managed, and, through fraud and incompetency on the part of the officers of the district, indebtedness
to a very large extent has been created against the district,
part of which was evidenced by bonds of the district, part by
judgments against it, and part by warrants or orders drawn
on its different funds.
On July 9, 1881, the board of directors of the district unani-

mously adopted a resolution to issue "for the purpose of funding the outstanding bonded indebtedness of the district"
bonds to an amount not exceeding $25,000, in accordance
with the statute aforesaid, to run for ten years, and payable
after five years at the pleasure of the district, and bearing
interest at the annual rate of seven per cent, with interest
coupons attached; and appointing one Richards "refunding
agent to negotiate said bonds," to take up the aforesaid indebtedness, and to report his doings to the district.
In pursuance of this resolution, .twenty-five bonds were prepared and signed by the proper officers of the district, dated
July 11, 1881, for the sum of $1000 each, having the statute
Sac. 2. The treasurer of such district is hereby authorized to sell the
bonds provided for in this .act at not less than their par value, and apply the
proceeds thereof to the payment of the outstanding bonded indebtedness of
the district, or he may exchange such bonds for outstanding bonds, par
for par, but the bonds hereby authorized shall be issued for no other purpose than the funding of outstanding bonded indebtedness; Laws of
Eighteenth General Assembly of Iowa, 127.
1 No county, or other political or municipal corporation, shall be allowed
to become indebted in any manner, or for any purpose, to an amount in the
aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of the taxable ,property
within such county or corporation- to be ascertained by the last state and
county tax lists, previous to the incurring of such indebtedness. 1 Charters
and Constitutions, 565.

OCTOBER TERM, 189L
Statement of the Case.

aforesaid printed upon them, and containing the following
recital: "This bond is executed and issued by the board of
directors of said school district in pursuance of and in accord:
ance with chapter 132, laws of the eighteenth general assembly of Iowa, is in accordance with the laws and constitution
of the State of Iowa, and in conformity with a resolution of
said board of directors passed in accordance with said chapter
132 at a meeting thereof held 9th day of July, 1881."
Ten of these bonds were sold on July 25, 1881, and ten
others on August 11, 1881, for their par value in cash, by
Richards to the plaintiff, who, at the time of his first purchase,
knew that it was the defendant's purpose to issue bonds to
the amount of $20,000 at least, or $25,000 if necessary. The
remaining five bonds were sold by Richards on December 20,
1881, to another party.
At the time of issuing the bonds in question, the total'valuation of the taxable property within the district, as shown
by the next preceding state and county tax lists, *as $131,038.
The evidence failed to show the exact amount of bonds of the
defendant outstanding on July 11, 1881; but the amount of
such bonds, with interest, exceeded $20,000. Large amounts
of warrants had beeii issued by the district from time to time
for various purposes, a portion, at least, of which was fraudulent; and there were outsthnding unsatisfied judgments against
it for $11,700. -Manyfrauds had been perpetrated by the officers of the district, and thereby the amount of indebtedness
evidenced by its bonds and by judgments against it had been
fraudulently increased. But the evidence failed to show that
any of those bonds had been issued in violation of the above
provision of the constitution of Iowa, or that a successful
dQfence could have been interposed by the defendant against
the holdevs of any of them.
Of the proceeds of the sale of the new bonds, the sum of
$19,174 was paid out by Richards at various times. from July
30, 1881, to March 4, 1882, in discharging bonds, coupons, judgments, warrants and orders drawn on the' teachers', contingent
and schoolhouse funds, and the balance of $6485.19 was paid
to the defendant's treasurer. His report, which was made

DO0No TOWNSHIP v. CUMMINS.
Citations for Defendant in Error.

part of the findings of 'fact, showed that of the sum of
$i9,174, less than $6000 was applied to the payment of out-

standing bonds and coupons, $87.5 in paying interest on the
new bonds, and the rest to t~e other purposes above mentioned.
The defendant regularly paid interest on the new bonds
until and including July, 1885; and this action was brought
on the coupons falling due in 1886, 1887, 1888 and 1889.
On these facts the court gave judgment for the plaintiff for
$6462.40, being the amount of the coupons sued on, with
interest. 42 Fed. Rep. 644. The defendant sued out this writ
of error.
Mr. B. F. .aufman, Xr. A. Van
agenen, .Mr. Hf. T.
M1cMillan and Mr. -/. T. Guernsey for plaintiff in error, cited:
-Dixon County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83; School -Districtv. Stone,
106 U. S. 183; Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662; Lake
County v. Graham, 130 U. S. 674; HofPherson v. Foster, 43
Iowa, 48; Mosher v. Ackley SchooZ District,44 Iowa, 122 ; ing
v. f-ahaska; County, 75 Iowa, 329; Scott v. City of Davenport,
34 Iowa, 208; Council Bluffs v. Stewart, 51 Iowa, 385; Austin
v. District Township of Colony, 51 Iowa, 102; Railroad Co.
v. Osceola County, 45 Iowa, 168; Wisconiin Central Railroad
v. Taylor County, 52 Wisconsin, 37.
Mr. J H Swann, 21r. M. B. Davis and .Mr. W.T.E. Gantt
for defendant in error, cited, among others: Miller v. .Nelson,
64 Iowa, 458; Railroad Co. v. Osceola County, 45 Iowa, 168,
52 Iowa, 26; School District v. Stone, 106 U. S. 183; Bates
v. School District of Riverside, 25 Fed. Rep. 192; Grifflth v.
Burden, 35 Iowa, 138; forris Canal & Banking Co. v. Fisher,
9 N. J. Eq. (1 Stockton) 667; S. C. 64 Am. Dec. 423; Bluff
Creek v. 1ardinrook, 40 Iowa, 130; Taylor Township v.
.Morton, 37 Iowa, 550; Union Township y. Smith, 39 Iowa, 9;
Wilson v. Salamanca,99 U. S. 499; Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S.
484; .Mtarcy v. Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; Buchanan v. Zitchfleld,
102 U. S. 278; Northern Bank v. Porter Township, 110 U. S.
608; Sherman County v. Simons, 109 U. S. 735; Humboldt
VOL. CXL-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Township v. Long, 92 U. S. 64,2; Lynde v. T7e County of
Winnebago, 16 Wall. 6; Commissioners v. January,94 U. S.
202; County of Warren v. farcy, 97'U. S. 96 ; Commissioners
of Douglas County v. Bolles, 94 U. S. 104; Pana v. Bowler,
107 U. S. 529; Supervisors v. Shenc, 5 Wall. 772; Portsmouth Savings Bank v. 8,pringfield, 4 Fed. Rep. 276; -Moran
v. Miami County, 2 Black, 712; Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24
How. 287; Mercer County v. Hacet, 1 Wall. 83; Meyer v.
Muscatine, 1 Wall. 384; Van Hostrup v. MAadison City, 1
Wall. 291; Gelp ee v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654; Lexington v. Butler, 14 Wall. 282;
Grand Chute v. Winega,, 15 Wall. 355, 372; St. Joseph
Township v. Rogers, 16 Wall. 644 ; Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S.
481; Town of Venice v. 2lurdock, 92 U. S. 494; Moultrie v.
Savings Bank, 92 U. S. 631; Randolph County v. Post, 93
U. S. 502; Leavenworth v. Barnes, 94 U. S. 70; Johnson
County v. Thayer, 94 U. S. 631; Cass County v. Johnston, 95
U. S. 360; San Antonio v. .Mehafey, 96 U. S. 312; Warren
County v. Marcy, 97 U. S. 96; Hackett v. Ottawa,99 U. S. 86;
Schuyler County v. Thomas, 98 U. S. 169; Anthony v. Jasper
County, 101 U. S. 693; Pompton Township v. Cooper Union,
101 U. S. 196; 1-arter v. -Yernochan, 103 U. S. 562; Bonham
v. Needles, 103 U. S. 648; Walnut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683;
Clay County v. Savings Society, 104 U. S. 579; .Moultrie
County v. Fairfield, 105 U. S. 370; Insurance Co. v. B ce,
105 U. S. 328; JYnox County v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard, 539.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The constit tion of Iowa, art. 11, see. 3, ordains as follows:
"No county, or other political or municipal corporation, shall
be allowed to become indebted in any manner, or for any
purpose, to an amount in the aggregate exceeding five per
centum on the value of the taxable property within such
county or corporation-to be ascertained by the last state
and county "tax lists, previous to the incurring of such
indebtedness."

DOON TOWNSHIP v. CUMMINS.
Opinion of the Court.

The scope and meaning of this provision of the fundamental
and paramount law of the State are clear and unmistakable.
No municipal corporation "shall be allowed" to contract
debts beyond the constitutional limit. When that limit has
been reached, no debt can be contracted " in any manner or
f:,r any purpose." The limit of the aggregate debt of the
i u icipality is fixed at five per cent of the value of the taxable property within it; and that value is to be ascertained
"by the last state and county tax lists," which are public
records, open to all, and of the contents of which all are
bound to take notice. The prohibition is addressed to the
legislature, as well as to all municipal boards and officers, and
to the people, and forbids any and all of them to create, or to
give binding force to, any debts of the corporation in excess
of the limit prescribed. The prohibition extending to .debts
contracted "in any manner, or for any purpose," it matters
not whether they are in every sense new debts, or are debts
contracted for the purpose of paying old ones, so long as the
aggregate of all debts, old and new, outstanding at one time,
and on which the corporation is liable to be sued, exceeds the
constitutional limit. The power of the legislature in this
respect being restricted and controlled by the constitution,
any statute which purports to authorize a municipal corporation to contract debts in any manner or for any purpose
whatever in excess of that limit is to that extent unconstitutional and void.
By the terms of the statute of Iowa of 1880, c. 132, under
which the bonds in question were issued, any independent
school district or district township, having a bonded indebtedness outstanding, is authorized to issue negotiable bonds for
the purpose of funding that indebtedness; and "the treasurer
of such district is hereby authorized to sell the bonds provided
for in this act at not less than their par value, and apply the
proceeds thereof to the payment of the outstanding bonded
indebtedness of the distribt, or he may exchange such bonds
for outstanding bonds, par for par."
There is a wide difference in the two alternatives which this
statute undertakes to authorize. The second alternative, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

exchanging bonds issued under the statute for outstanding
bonds, by which the new bonds, as soon as issued to the holders of the old ones, would be a substitute for and an extinguishment of them, so that the aggregate outstanding indebtedness of the corporation would not be increased, might be
consistent with the constitution. But under the first alternative, by which the treasurer is authorized to sell the new bonds
and to apply the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the
outstanding ones, it is evident that if (as in the case at bar)
new bonds are issued without a cancellation or surrender of
the old ones, the aggregate debt outstanding, and on which
the corporation is liable to be sued, is at once and necessarily
increased, and, if new bonds equal in amount to the old ones
are so issued at one time, is doubled; and that it will remain
at the increased amount until the proceeds of .the new bonds
are applied to the payment of the. old ones, or until some of
the obligations are otherwise discharged.
It is true that if the proceeds of the sale are used by the
municipal officers, as directed by the statute, in paying off the
old debt, the aggregate indebtedness will ultimately be reduced to the former limit. But it is none the less true, that it
has been increased in the interval; and that unless those officers do their duty, the increase will be permanent. It would
be inconsistent alike with the words, and with the object, of
the constitutional provision, framed to protect municipal corporations from being loaded with debt beyond a certain limit,
to make their liability to be charged with debts contracted
beyond that limit depend solely upon the discretion or the
honesty of their officers.
There could be no better illustration of the reasonableness,
if not the necessity, of this construction, in order to secure to
municipal corporations the protection intended and declared
by the constitution of the State, than is afforded by the facts
of the present case. The total valuation of the property of
the district, 'as shown by the ]ast state and county tax list
before it issued the bonds in question, was $131,038, five per
cent of which, or $6551.90, was the limit beyond which it was
prohibited by the constitution to contract debts. Its -outstand-

DOON TOWNSHIP v. *CUMMINS.
Opinion of the Court.

ing bonded debt was already not less than $20,000, which
upon the facts found must be assumed to be valid. For the
purpose of funding that debt it executed and sold bonds to
the amount of $25,000, and it actually applied less than $6000
of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of outstanding
bonds. The result of holding the new bonds good would be
to double the whole bonded debt of the district, and to bring
it up to about thirty per cent of the valuation.
This construction of the constitution of Iowa appears to us
to be warranted, and indeed required, by previous decisions of
this court.
In construing a prohibition of the constitution of Illinois of
1870, art. 9, sec. 12, expressed in substantially the same
words, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, said: "The
words employe d -are too explicit to leave any doubt as to the
object of the constitutional restriction upon municipal indebtedness. The purpose of its framers, beyond all question, was to
withhold from the legislative department the power to confer
upon municipal corporations authority to incur indebtedness
in excess of a prescribed amount." "No legislation could confer upon a municipal corporation authority to contract indebtedness which the constitution expressly declared it should not
be allowed to incur." Buchanan v. -LithfieZd, 102 U. S. 278,
287, 288. It is proper to add that the bonds there held
invalid recited that they had been issued in accordance .with a
certain legislative act and municipal ordinance, but neither the
bonds, the statute, nor the ordinance, mentioned the constitutional restriction; and that it was intimated in the opinion
that if the bonds had contained further recitals which, fairly
construed, amounted to a representation t1.'t the proposed indebtedness was. within the constitutional- limit, the city might

have been estopped to dispute the truth of the representation
as against a bonafde holder of the bonds.

102 '" S. 290, 292.

This court afterwards held that the original purck ser of the
bonds thus held invalid could not maintain a suit in equity
against the city to recover back the money paid for them;
and, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, after quoting the constitutional provision, and emphasizing the words "indebted

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in any manner orfor any purp~ose," said: "It shall not become
indebted, Shall not incur any pecuniary liability. It shall not
do this in any manner. Neither by bonds, nor notes, nor by
express or implied promises. Nor shall it be done for any
jpurose. No matter how urgent, how useful, how unanimous
the wish. There stands the existing indebtedness to a given
amount in relation to the sources of payment as an impassable obstacle to the creation of any further debt, in any manner, or for any purpose whatever. If this prohibiti6n is worth
anything, it is as effectual against the implied as the express promise, and is as binding in a court of chancery as a
court of law." Litcheld v. Ballou, 114 U. S. 190, 192, 193.
In Dixeon County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83, there was brought in
question the effect of the constitution of Nebraska of 1875,
art. 12, see. 2, prohibiting any county or other subdivision of
the State from ever making donations to any railroad, without
a vote of the qualified electors thereof at an election held by
authority of law, and providing that its donations "in the
aggregate shall not exceed ten per cent of the assessed valuation of county," (with a proviso immaterial to that case,) and
that "no bonds or other evidences of indebtedness so issued
shall be valid unless the same shall have indorsed thereon a certificate signed by the secretary and auditor of the State, showing that the same is issued pursuant to law." Bonds issued by a
county beyond ten per cent of its assessed valuation were
held to be void, even in the hands of a bona fide holder,
although each bond, after stating the whole amount issued,
stated that they were issued pursuant to an order of the county
commissioners, and authorizect by an election held on a certain
day, and under and by virtue of certain statutes, and the constitution of the State; and bore a certificate of the secretary
and auditor that "it was issued pursuant to law." In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Matthews said: "We
regard the entire section as a prohibition, upon the municipal
bodies enumerated, in the matter of creating and increasing
the public debts, by express and positive limitations upon
the legislative power itself." 111 U. S.89. "No recital involving the amount of the assessed taxable valuation of the

DOON TOWNSHIP v. OUMMINS.
Opinion of the Court.

property to be taxed for the payment of the bonds can take
the place of the assessment itself, for it is the amount, as fixed
by reference to that record, that is made by the constitution
the standard for measuring the limit of the municipal power."
111 U. S. 95.
The constitution of Oolorado of 1876, art. 11, see. 6,provides that the indebtedness contracted in any one year, by any
county having a valuation of not less than one million of dollars, shall not exceed a certain per cent on its assessed valuation, and that "the aggregate amount of indebtedness of any
county, for all purposes, exclusive of debts contracted before
the adoption of this constitution, shall not at any time exceed
twice the amount above herein limited." This court held, in
Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662, that this provision
limited the power of the county to contract debts for any purpose whatever; and in Lake County v. Graham, 130 U. S.
674, that the county was not estopped, as against a bonaflde
holder for value, to show that the constitution had been violated by issuing bonds which recited the whole amount issued,
and that they were issued "under and by virtue of and in full
compliance with" a certain statute, and that "all the provisions
and requirements of said act have been fully complied with by
the proper officers in the issuing of this bond." In the latter
case, Mr. Justice Lamar, delivering judgment, said: "In this
case the constitution charges each purchaser with knowledge
of the fact that, as to all counties whose assessed valuation
equals one million of dollars, there is a maximum limit,
beyond which those counties can incur no further indebtedness
under any possible conditions, provided that, in calculating
that limit, debts contracted before the adoption of the constitution are not to be counted." 130 U. S. 680. And again:
"In this case the standard of validity is created by the constitution. In that standard two factors are to be considered;
one the amount of assessed value, and the other the ratio between that assessed value and the debt proposed. These being
exactions of the constitution itself, it is not within the power
of a legislature to dispense with them, either directly, or indirectly, by the creation of a ministerial commission whose

376"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

finding shall be taken in lieu of the facts. In the case of
Sherman County v. Simons, 109 U. S. 735, and others like it,

the question was one of estoppel as against an exaction imposed by the legislature; and the holding was that the legislature, being the source of exaction, had created a board
authorized to determine whether its exaction had been complied with, and that its finding was conclusive to a bonajfde
purchaser." 130 U: S. 683, 684.
It is hardly necessary to add that the payment of some instalments of interest -cannot have the effect of ratifying bonds
issued beyond the constitutional limit ;'for a ratification can
have no greater effect than a previous authority; and debts
which neither the district nor its officers had any power to
authorize or create cannot be ratified or validated by either of
*them, by the payment of interest, or otherwise. Marsh v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20
Wall. 655; .9aviess County v.. Dickinson, 117 U. 'S. 657;
.NTorton-v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425, 451.
In the Supreme Court of Iowa, it is settled law that the
constitutional restriction includes not only municipal bonds,
but all forms of indebtedness, except warrants for money
actually in the treasury, and perhaps contracts for ordinary
expenses within the limits of the current revenues. Scott v.
Davenport, 34 Iowa, 208; AfWcPherson v. Foster, 43 Iowa, 48;
.Mosher v. Ackley-c District, 44 Iowa, 122; Council Blufs v.
Stewart, 51 Iowa, 385; Zane v. Rock Rapids District, 47
Northwestern Reporter, 1076. And a school district has been
adjudged to be a political or municipal corporation within the
meaning of the constitution. Tinspear v. Nolman District,
37 Iowa, 542; f7$osher v. Ackley District and Kane v. Rock
Rapids District,above cited.
. In Scott v. Davenport, it was held that after the constitutional limit had been reached, by debts contracted either before
or after the constitution took effect, no new debts could be
contracted, even for the purpose of erecting public works from
which it was expected that the city would derive a revenue.
In _HoPherson v. Foster, it was held that bonds issued in
excess of the constitutional limit were void, even in the. hands

DOON TOWNSHIP v. CUMMINS.
Opinion of the Court.

of a bona fid6 purchaser for value, and could not be ratified
by the municipality, by payment of interest or otherwise. In
.Mosher v. Ackley District,it was again held that such bonds
were void against a bonafide holder, and that a statute giving
a lien on a schoolhouse for materials for which such bonds
had been giveii was unconstitutional. In Council Bluffs v.
Stewart, it was held that uncollected taxes and the levy for
the current year could not be deducted from the outstanding
debt for the purpose of ascertaining the real indebtedness, and,
that the contrary view "confounds the distinction between an
indebtedness and insolvency." 51 Iowa, 396.
The Iowa cases cited by the defendant in error fail to support his position. In Austin v. Colony District,51 Iowa, 102,
the limit in question was not fixed by the constitution, but by
a vote of the district. In Sioux City v. Weare, 59 Iowa, 95,
the bond held valid was issued Ind received in payment and
satisfaction of a judgment for a tort, and that judgment was
not shown to have been in excess of the constitutional restriction. There the bond took the place of the judgment, and
therefore, as observed by the court, did not increase the city's
indebtedness.
The case of Sioux City & St. Paul Railway v. Osceola
County, 45 Iowa, 168, arose under the statute of Iowa of
1872, c. 174, which provided that a judgment creditor of a
municipal corporation, in lieu of an execution against its
property, might demand and receive the amount of his judgment and costs in bonds of the corporation; and the decision
was that a bond given by a county under that statute, in payment of a judgment recovered upon a warrant of the corporation, could not be defeated in the hands of a bona fde holder
by evidence that the warrant wa issued in excess of the constitutional restriction, and that the supervisors of the county
fraudulently omitted to interpose the defence in the action
upon the warrant. That decision went, upon the ground that,
there having been no defence by the supervisors nor interposition by the taxpayers in the action on the warrant, the purchaser of the bond had the right to presume that there was no
defect in the judgment. 45 Iowa, 175, 176. In a subsequent

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of tho Court.

case between the same parties, the county, having given bonds
partly in exchange for coulity warrants and partly in exchange
for judgments upon such warrants, all the warrants having
been issued in excess of the constitutional limit, and all the
bonds having passed out of the hands of their original holders,
was restrained by injunction from paying the bonds exchanged
for warfants on whibh no judgment had been recovered, and
was permitted to pay those bonds only given in exchange for
judgments. Appeal Was taken from the latter part of the
decree only, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
'State, following its former decision between the parties, was
confined, in express terms, as well as in legal effect, to ".the
.validity of negotiable bonds of a county, issued in satisfaction
of a judgment, in the hands of innocent holders for value."
52 Iowa, 26, 28. The rule there actdd on is restricted to such
a case in the opinion in Afiller v. Nelson, 64 Iowa, 458, 461,
and by the adjudication of the same court in a very recent
azne v. _ ko
case not yet published in the official reports.
-Rapids.District,47 Northwestern Reporter, 1076.
In the case at bar, the new debts did not arise on warrants
for money actually in the treasury of the district, or on contracts for ordinary expenses payable out of its current revenues; and none of the bonds in question were given in payment
and satisfaction of judgments. Nor did the plaintiff buy the
bonds for value, in good faith, and without notice of any
defect, from one to whoi they had been issued by the district.
He was himself the person to whom they were originally issued
by the district, and knew, when he took the first ten bonds,
that the district, in issuing them, exceeded the constitutional
limit, as appearing by public records of which he was bound
to take notice, and that it intended still further to exceed that
limit. Under such circumstances he had no right to rely on
the recitals in the bonds, even if these could otherwise have
any effect as against the plain provision of the constitution of
the State. By the uniform course of the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Iowa, therefore, as well as of this court, he
bannot maintain this action.
Judgment reversed, and case -emanded to the Circuit Court
with directions to enter judgment/or the defendant.

DOON TOWNSHIP v. CUMINS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, J3.

MR. JUSTICE BRoww, (with whom concurred MRt. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BREwtn,) dissenting.

HARLA

These bonds were issued under an act of the legislature
authorizing district townships having a bonded indebtedness
outstanding to issue negotiable bonds for the purpose of funding such indebtedness, and subject to a constitutional provision
that no municipal corporation shall become indebted in any
manner or for any purpose to an amount in the aggregate
exceeding five per cent on the value of the taxable property
The bonds were certified by the
within such corporation.
proper officers of the district to have been executed and issued
in pursuance of and in accordance with the statute authorizing
such bonds, (a copy of which was printed upon the bonds,) and
in accordance with the laws and constitution of the State of
Iowa, and in conformity with the resolution of the board of
directors, etc. Plaintiff purchased these bonds, for their par
value in cash, of one Richards, who had been appointed "refunding agent to negotiate the bonds." Under the provision
of the constitution, the township had no power to create an
indebtedness in excess of $6551.90, that being five per cent of
the taxable property of the township, as shown by the last tax
list previous to the issuance of said bonds.
1But, granting that the indebtedness alreadyr existing exceeded
the constitutional limit, these bonds were issued, not for the
purpose of increasing this indebtedness,, but merely to change
its form and reduce its rate of interest. The object of the constitutional provision was to prevent the incurrence of a new
debt or the increase Qf an existing debt beyond a limited
amount. The object of, the statute was to enable district
townships to fund their indebtedness by issuing and sellifig
bonds at not less than their par value, and applying the proceeds to the payment of such outstanding indebtedness, or by
exchanging such bonds for outstanding bonds. If the construction placed upon this statute by the court be correct, it
is difficult to see how any township can avail itself of it, if
such township has an existing indebtedness up to the amount
of the constitutional limitation, since the new bonds, whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

issued to be sold for cash or to be exchanged for other bonds,
must, while the process of sale or exchange is going on, nominally increase the indebtedness of the corporation. I regard this
as too technical an interpretation of the constitutional provision.
In giving a construction to this clause, the Supreme Court of
Iowa held in S. C. &. St. P. R. R. Co. v. The County of Oscebla,
45 Iowa, 168, that the validity of negotiable bonds of a county,
issued in satisfaction of a judgment, in the hands of innocent
holders for value, without notice of any claim that they are
illegal for any cause, could not be questioned, by showing that
the judgments were rendered upon warrants issued in excess of
the constitutional limitation of five per cent, and that the board
of supervisors fraudulently omitted to interpose the defence
.when the warrants were sued upon. "When a bond," says
the court, "issued in discharge of a judgment is placed upon the
market, a purchaser who has no intimation of 'anything affecting its validity, has a right to presume that the board of supervisors have been mindful of their interest and their duty, and
that all available defences have been presented and passed
upon." This case was recognized and cited with approval in
.Millerv. Nleleon, 61 Iowa, 468, and S. C. &. t. P. .. R. Co. v.
08eceola County, 52 Iowa, 26. See also Chafee Co. v. Potter,
ante, 355, and cases there cited; Powell v.' Aadison, 107
Indiana, 106.
Had the proceeds of these bonds been properly applied, no
question could have arisen as to the indebtedness of the township having been increased by their issue. If the district township had the right to issue the bonds, which it certainly had, if
the statute under which they were issued be constitutional, the
purchaser of such bonds was under no obligation to see that
the money he paid for them was applied to extinguishing the
existing indebtedness. He was entitled to act upon the presumption that the officers charged with the execution of the
law would not betray their trust, and would deal fairly with
the people who had put them forward to represent them. In
my view this is simply an attempt to saddle tbe' holders of
these bonds with the derelictions of the officials chosen by the
electors of this township to act for them in this transaction,
and who were alone entitled to receive the money.

