OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

States v. _Zansas Pacific Railway Co., 99 U. S. 455, and the
Thurman Act of May 7, 1878, in Urnited States v. Central
Pacific Railroad Company, 118 U. S. 235.
There was no error in the judgment of the Court of Claims,
and it is, therefore,
________Affirmed.

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBER COMPANY v. OTT.
APPEAL FROM 'THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 135.

Argued December 18, 1891. -Decided

January 18, 1892.

The question of the construction and effect of a statute of a State, regulating
assignments for the benefit of creditors, is a question upon which the
decisions of the highest court of the State, establishing a rule of property, are of controlling authority in the courts of the United States.
The'decisions'of the highest court of Iowa with regard to the statute of
that State regulating such provisions now codified in section 2115 of the
Code, -hold: (1) that it dees not prevent partial assignments with preferences, or sales or mortgages of any or all of the party's property in payment of or security fok indebtedness; its operation being limited to the
matter of general assignments: (2)' that several instruments, executed
by a debtor at about the same time, may be considered as parts of one
transaction, and as in law forming but one instrument; and if, so construed, they have the effect of a general assignment with preferences,
they are within the denunciation of the statute: (3) that although several instruments may be executed by the debtor at about the same tine,
they do not necessarily create one transaction, nor must they necessarily
be considered as one instrument; but the decision of whether they do or
not, and whether they come within the denunciation of the statute, or
not, must depend, in each case, upon the character of the instruments,
the circumstances of the case and the intent of the parties.
When the effect of invalidating such an assignment, without preferences on
its face, by reason of previous prefereiitial transactions claimed to be
part of it, will be to let in to preference another creditor attaching after
the assignment, the court will be justified in adhering to the letter of the
statute, when the circumstances permit it.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

On April 27, 1886, George Ott, one of the defendants, doing
business at Davenport, Iowa, made a general assignment of

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBER COMPANY v. OTT.

6' 3

Argument for Appellant.

all his property, for the benefit of his creditors, to Gharles F.
Meyer. The next day complainant commenced itg action at
law in the District Court of Scott County, Iowa, against Ott,
to recover $37,191.69, and caused a writ of attachment to 'be
issued against the property of Ott. The writ was served by
a levy upon certain real estate; and by the garnishment of
Meyer, the assignee, and also of Charles Hill and Addie
Kloppenberg, holders of chattel mortgages'against Ott.1 The
action was removed by the plaintiff to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Iowa, and thereafter
proceeded to judgment on September 17, 1887, for $40,261.31.
Shortly after such removal complainant commenced this suit,
in aid of the action in attachment, by filing its bill in that
court, the object of which was to have the assignment declared
void, and a receiver appointed of the property. The debtor,
Ott, his assignee, Meyer, the chattel mortgagees, Hill and
Kloppenberg, and the guardian of the latter, were made parties defendant. Thereafter Meyer, the assignee, died, and in
his place were substituted his successor$ J. B. Meyer, and his
executrix, Auguste Meyer. Answers were filed, proofs taken
and at the June, 1887, term, a decree was entered sustaining
.the validity of the assignment, but adjudging the mortgage
to Hill fraudulent as against complainant, and ordering that
the assignee, out of the funds in his possession, pay to complainant the sum of $3225, the amount due on that chattel
mortgage. From this decree the plaintiff has appealed to this
court.
'. Fr'ank Sm ith (with whom was X'. J.-M.PFlower on
the brief) for appellant.
The provision of the Iowa statutes under which it is claimed
the assignment in controversy is void, is as follows: "No
general assignment of property by an insolvent, or in contem1 Both mortgages were executed and delivered February 20, 1886, and
both were withheld from record until April 26. The one to Hill was to
secure him as indorser. The one to Kloppenberg to secure his granddaughter, a minor, of whose estate he had been appointed guardian, and
whose moneys he had taken into his business.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

plation of insolvency, for the benefit of creditors, shall be
valid, unless it be made for the benefit of all his creditors in
propcrtion to the amount of their respective claims." Iowa
Rev. Stats'. sec. 2115, p. 569: tit. Of Assignments for Creditors. It is well settled by the general current of authority in
Iowa, that where an -insolvent debtor, in contemplation of
making a voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditors,
gives security to one or more of his creditors by separate instruments, followed by an assignment, all of said instruments
will be construed together as an assignment with preferences
and therefore void under the statute. Cole v. Dealhamrn, Garntishee, 13 Iowa, 551; Van Patten v. Burr, 52 Iowa, 518;
Farwell v. Jones, 63 Iowa, 316; Pery v. Vezina, 63 Iowa,
25; Gage v. P.pary, 69 Iowa, 605.
Such being the rule, it becomes necessary to examine the
facts, about which there is little dispute. The chief controversy is upon the time when Ott began to contemplate making
an assignment. The facts bearing on it are briefly these.
On April 12, Beidler, the appellant's secretary, had an interview with Ott. He had with him a statement of Ott's financial condition, which, in his opinion, showed insolvency, and
which showed an enormous increase of liabilities over assets,
as compared with his statement of the preceding year. At
this meeting, Beidler insisted that the debt must be reduced,
although it does not appear that he threatened suit, although
the claim was so large and the circumstances were such that
Ott might reasonably apprehend a vigorous effort to enforce
collection in the near future, unless the amount was materially
lessened. In the forenoon of April 26th Ott evidently felt
that a crisis had been reached in his affairs, and consulted a
lawyer for the first time so far as known, and from thence on
was actively engaged in putting his affairs in order.
This is what he did on that day: (1)lIe told Peters, his attorney, to record the Kloppenberg mortgage, which had never
been delivered, and it was filed for record at six minutes past
five P.m. (2) He told Hill that he might have his mortgage,
given to secure him as endorser, recorded, which was filed for
record at seven minutes past five. (3) He directed his book-

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBER COMPANY v. OTT.

625

Argument for Appellant.

keeper to make out and give to Christ. Mueller three drafts
on, customers for $1239.46 as collateral security for a *debt
owing to him, which drafts were delivered by the clerk.
(4) He personally delivered to T. W. McOlelland, for T. W.
McClelland & Co., a draft upon one of his customers for
$660.80, as collateral security for a debt not then due, with a
statement that he was in trouble and did not propose to go
back on his friends. On the morning of the 27th of April, at
or about the time of executing the assignment, Ott, by an
instrument in writing, drawn up by his attorney who drew
the assignment, pledged four carloads of merchandise for the
payment of a freight bill of $826.57. Whether this reached
the freight agent before the assignment was recorded cannot
be determined, but the security was recognized by the assignee
and the debt paid.
All of these transactions were purely voluntary upon the part
of Ott, as much so as the assignment itselt. No compulsion
was used or even threatened by any of the creditors who were
preferred, to obtain these securities. It is vastly more reasonable to suppose that these preferences were given because Ott.
was contemplating a voluntary assignment than that the
assignment was made because he had voluntarily given the
preferences. The real question is, had Ott in contemplation
the making of an assignment at the time of these transactions?
and not whether he had made up his mind to do so.
Some men are so constituted that they do not regard their
minds as made up so long as the opportunity to change their
iews remains, or until matters have proceeded so far that
such change is impossible. Ott must have looked at the matter in this light, and for the purposes of this case concluded
that his mind was made up when he had actually executed the
assignment, and not before; for when he is asked wvhether th
papers were being prepared on the afternoon of the 26th, be
testifies simply*to a belief that they were not, because he
hadn't yet reached a conclusion; that is, made up his mind.
The assignment itself, with its thr'c._pages of carefully pre.
pared schedules of assets and liabilities, is a flat contradiction
of and sufficient to discredit his testimony. So complete a list
VOL. CXL-40

OCTOBER TERAT, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

'of creditors, with a list of their addresses and the amounts due
to each, could never have been prepared on the morning of the
27th of April so as to be filed before 9 o'clock.
The testimony of Ott as to his secret intent, wholly unsupported, inconsistent with itself and contradicted as to material matters, by the testimony of other witnesses, is entitled to
no weight as against the irresistible conclusion to be drawn
from the series of acts and transactions which preceded and
culminated in a voluntary assignment within the space of
twenty-four hours.
Some stress is laid by the learned judge who decided this
case in the court below upon the inequitable result of holding
the--Ott assignment void, as it would give to the attachment
creditors the entire estate. Undoubtedly it would 'be much
more satisfactory to a court of equity, had, the law provided
that the preferences and not the assignment should be void.
The fact that the penalty imposed by the legislature was a
harsh one, and operated unjustly upon the right of others,
seems to have been something of an obstacle in the way, in
determining Ott's intent.
The inquiry is: do the facts and circumstances and the testimony show that Ott, by his various transactions and instruments, has made an assignment with preferences? If he has
done so, then all he has done is void by the terms of the
statute. If the testimony is sufficient to justify that conclusion, when the law makes the preferences void, the same
result must follow, though the law makes the assignment void..
.Mr.. J-ohln C. Bills for appellees.
MR.
STXhsric
BREw.ER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The single question in this case is as to the validity of the
assignment. Its invalidity is claimed under section 2115 of the
Code of Iowa: "No general assignment by an insolvent, or
in contemplation of insolvency, for the benefit of creditors,
shall be valid unless it be made for the benefit of all his creditors in proportion to the amount of their respective claims."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the State is decisive. The question of the construction and
effect of a statute of a State, regulating assignments for the
benefit of creditors, is a question upon which the decisions of
the highest court of the State, establishing a rule of property,
are of controlling authority in the court; of the United States.
v. lrest, 7 'et. 608, 615; Alleib v. .msey, 17 Wall.
JBrasar
351 ;. Lloyd v. Fi'7dton, 91, U. S. 479, 485 ; Suinner v. Yieks,
2 Black, 532, 534; Jqf'ay v. Jf.Uee,, 107 U. S. 361, 365;
P;e,w v. Bab, 133 U. S. 670, 686; Ranlolph v. Quidnick
yity
(0., 135 U. S. 457; CUieago Uaioit Bank v. .Kansas
Bank 136 U. S. 223, 235.

This statute, which, as we have seen, has been in force in
the State of Iowa for thirty years, has been repeatedly before
its highest court. In the margin may be found a list of cases
decided by that court, in which it has been the subject of construction.' These propositions seem to be established.
First, this.section d6es not prevent partial assignments with

preferences, or sales or mortgages of any or all of the party's
Its
property, in payment of or security for indebtedness.
operation is limited to the matter of general assignments,
and does not destroy thatjus disionendi which is an incident
to title. Cowles v. Rir,.et., I Iowa, 582; _,omme v. Jones,
13 Iowa, 474; lanpso v. A?-nold, 19 Iowa, 479, 486. In this
xCowles & Co. v. Rickets, 1 Iowa, 582; Meeker v. Sanders, 6 Iowa, 61;
furrows v. Lehndorff, 8 Iowa, 96; Johnson v. Me&Grew, 11 Iowa, 151;
Fromme V. Jones, 13 Iowa, 474; Cole v. Dealham, 13 Iowa, 551; Graves v.
Alden, 13 Iowa, 573; B2ell v. Bznckingham & Co., 16 Iowa, 284; Jiutchinson & Co. v. Watkins, 17 Iowa, 475; Ruble v. McDonald, 18 Iowa, 493;
Lampson & Powers v. Arnold, 19 Iowa, 479 ; Lyon v. AlVclvaine, 24 Iowa,9;
Davis i Co. v. Gibbon, 24 Iowa, 257, 263; 'Fbriell & Co. v. Howard & Co.,
26 Iowa, 381; Van Patten & Marks v. l3nrr, 52 Iowa, 518; VanuPatten &
Mabrks v. Burr,.55 Iowa, 224; Kohn Bros. v. Clement, M[orton & Co., 58 Iowa,
589; Van Horn v. An,aith, 59 Iowa, 142; Perryv. Vezina, 63 Iowa, 25; Farwel? v" Jones, 63 Iowa, 316; Taffray & Co. i'. Greenbaum, 64 Iowa, 492;
Cadwell's Bank v. Crittenden, 66 Iowa, 237; Carson etal. v. Byers eC al., 67
Iowa, 606; Gage & Co.,v., Parry, 69 Iowa, 605; Garrett v. The Btrlington.
Plow Co., 70 Iowa, 697; Audnan v. Aulman, 71 Ibwa, 124; Van Patten &
Marks v. Thompson, 73 Iowa, 103; Bolles v. Creighton,73 Iowa, 199; Loomis
& Son v. ,tewart, 75 Iowa, 387; King v. Gustafson, 80 Iowa, 207;' Bradley
vwBlschel, 46.N. W. Rep. 755.

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBER COMPANY v. OTT.

627

Opinion of the Court.

Iowa Rev. Stats. 569. This statute has been in force since
1851.
Code, 1851, ยง 977; Revision, 1860, ยง 1826. The
assignment in question, standing by itself presents no ground
of challenge. It purports to be a general assignment, is for
the benefit of all creditors and contains no preferences but
the contention of plaintiff is, that, nearly cotemporaneously
with it, were executed by Oft, the assignor, certain other instruments, which are to be taken as part of the one transaction,
and by which preferences were given. The object of the
statute was to secure equality among creditors, an object which
certainly has the merit of equity. Curiously enough, counsel
for plaintiff insists that this equity misled the Circuit Court,
and protests against its like influence upon our judgment, while
strenuously insisting upon such a construction of the transaction as will enable his client to obtain that preference which it
was the purpose of the statute to prevent. He says: "Some
stress is laid by the learned judge who decided this case in the
court below upon the inequitable result of holding the Ott
assignment void, as it would give to the attachment creditors
the entire estate. Undoubtedly it would be much more satisfactory to a court of equity had the law provided that the
preferences and not the assignment should be void. The fact
that the penalty imposed by the legislature was a harsh one,
and operated unjustly upon the right of others, seems to have
been something of an obstacle in the way, in determining Ott's
intent." But if we apply the letter alone of the statute, then
he has no cause of complaint; for the assignment standing by
itself is without preferences, and only an assignment with preferences is denounced.
Only by going beyond the letter and,
in obedience to the spirit, inquiring whether antecedent instruments were not so related to the assignment as fairly to be
taken as parts thereof, and constituting with it but one transaction, has the plaintiff any standing in court. But shall we
ignore the letter and heed the spirit to give a party a standing
in court, and then ignore the spirit and heed only the letter in
the further consideration of the case?
The rights of the parties are determined by this local statute,
and the construction placed thereon by the Supreme Court of

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBER COMPANY v. OTT.

629

Opinion of the Court.

latter case the court enters- into a full consideration of the
import of the statute, and says: "This statute, it will be
observed, does not limit or affect the right of an insolvent
debtor, or one contemplating insolvency, or indeed, any other,
to sell or mortgage a part or all of his property to one or more of
his many creditors, in payment or security of a particular debt
or debts. And this is true, although such sale or mortgage
may, practically, defeat all other creditors than the grantee,
from collecting their demands. Nor does the statute prohibit
or interfer~e with the right of any debtor, as it existed prior to
the statute, to make a partial assignment. In other words, the
statute does not expressly, or by implication, extend any further, or apply to any instrument or conveyance, other than to
a general assignment. Bock v. Perkins, 139 U. S. 628, 641.
And, therefore, it is still competent for any debtor to pay a
part of his creditors in full; to secure another part by mortgage, or deed of trust upon a part of his property; to make a
partial assignment of still other property for the benefit of
certain other creditors, with or without preference, and afterwards to make a general assignment. The statute simply provides that such general assignment shall not be valid, unless it
is made for the benefit of all the creditorspro rata."
Second, several instruments executed by a debtor, at about
the same time, may be considered as parts of one transaction,
and in law forming but one instrument; and if, as thus construed, they have the effect of a general assignment with preferences, they are within the denunciation of the statute.
Burrows v. .ehndoiyf, 8 Iowa, 96 ; Cole v. Dealham,13 Iowa,
551; Tan Patten v. Birr, 52 Iowa, 518.
And, third, that although several instruments may be executed by the debtor at about the same time, they do not necessarily create one transaction or are to be considered as one
instrument; and whether they do or not, and whether they
come within the denunciation of the statute, depend upon the
character of the instruments, the circumstances of the case
and the intent of the parties. Larpso v. AT-nold, 19 Iowa,
479; 'a?6 Patten v. Bmr, 55 Iowa, 224; Perr?/ v. Vezi .,
63 Iowa, 25 ; Gage v. _arry, 69 Iowa, 605; Garrett v. Plow

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, 70 Iowa, 697; Bolles v. Creighton,73 Iowa, 199;
.Loomis v. jStewart, 75 Iowa, 387.
The case of ' T an Patten v. Burr, in 52 and 55 Iowa, is instructive. In that case the debtor, being insolvent, had executed two chattel mortgages and an assignment, all bearing
date November 30, 1878. When first presented to the Supreme Court it came on demurrer to the petition, in which it
was alleged that the debtor, "in contemplation of insolvency,
and being then insolvent, made, executed and delivered in
writing a general assignment of his property for the benefit of
his creditors, contained in three instruments executed by him,"
etc.; and, also, "that said instruments were intended to and do
constitute as a whole a general assignment of his property for
the benefit of creditors." And it was held, under such allegations, that the three instruments were to be treated as one,
and together making a general assignment with preferences.
The case went back for trial, and upon the testimony it
appeared that one of the mortgages was accepted by the
Mortgagee without any knowledge of the contemplated assignment; and in 55 Iowa it was held that such mortgage was
good.
In Perry v. Vezina, 63 Iowa, 25, it appeared that a chattol
mortgage was executed about three hours before a general
assignment; but as it was agreed that, when the mortgage
was made, the debtor did not contemplate making the assignment, the latter was held valid. The court said : "But, to
justify a court in finding that a mortgage may be taken in
connection with some other instrument as constituting an
assignment, it should appear that the mortgagor, at the time
he made the mortgage, had the intention to make an assignment." Similar expressions are found in others of the cases
cited. Obviously, it is a fair inference from these decisions
that, as -well said by Judge Love in deciding this case, "t h e
intention of the assignor must be the true and guiding principle of decision." With what intent did Ott in this case execute the various instruments prior to the general assignment?
Was he intending a general assignment, and seeking to
evade the statute, and to give preferences by other instrn-

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBER COMPANY v. OTT.

631

Opinion of the Court.

ments? or was he, finding himself involved and likely to be
closed out by some of his creditors, simply preferring some,
uncertain as to what disposition he should make of the balance of his property after they had been secured?
Upon the basis of these rulings interpreting the scope and
effect of this statute, we perceive no error in *the conclusions
of the Circuit Court. Quite an amount of testimony was
offered, for the purpose of showing that the debt of the appellant was fraudulently contracted by Ott. The assumption
seems to be, that if this be proved it follows that the assignment was made in violation of the statute, and void; but there
is no sequence in these propositions. Even if it were established beyond doubt that Ott, with deliberate purpose to defraud the appellant, contracted this debt, this would not
determine the scope or effect of his assignment. It were as
reasonable to suppose that, having made the personal gain he
designed, his interest ceased, and that he never contemplated
an assignment until the very moment of its execution. Indeed,
if he were guilty of fraud, in the first instance, it would imply
a state of mind indifferent to all results after the primary purpose of his own profit had been secured.
It would be unjust, however, to the parties to leave this
statement with the inference which might follow, that we
consider it established that the debt was fraudulently contracted. The basis of the contention in this respect is in the
inaccurate statements furnished by Ott to appellant in reference to his financial condition during the years prior to this
assignment. Obviously they were so as to values; but as he
named the property, his overestimate of value is not to be
adjudged necessarily fraudulent. We note one matter upon
which stress is laid: a quarry, valued by him at $14,000. Notwithstanding the testimony as to its utter worthlessness, yet
he had invested large sums in trying to develop and work it,
and was not without hopes of ultimately realizing much from
it. He named this quarry as a part of his assets, and gave his
estimate of its value. If the lumber company desired further
information as to its location, its condition and its prospects,
it could have asked of him, or made itself an independent in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

vestigation. If it was content with his statement, it must
show not merely ,that he had overestimated, but, further, that
he had fraudulently given the value. He furnished to the
lumber company the data for investigation, and while caveat
emptor is the rule as to the thing sold, ca.veat venditor is also
the rule as to the pecuniary condition and solvency of the
purchaser. Something more than overestimate of value on
the purchaser's part is necessary before it can be said that on
this account the debt was fraudulently contracted. A deliberate overestimate and an intention to defraud are essential.
But we do not care to tarry upon this feature of the case.
The business relations between the lumber company and Ott
had been running for a series of years. He had purchased
from it to an amount exceeding $180,000. His business had
averaged about $300,000 a year. His statements, while- inaccurate and overestimated as to values, disclosed the property
which he possessed, and enabled the lumber company to investigate. But whatever may have 'been the character of the
relations between the lumber company and him, the inquiry
before us is limited to the assignment; and here five matters
are referred to and claimed by the appellant to be so related to
it as to be in fact part and parcel of it, and thus together constituting a general assignment with preferences, within the denunciation of the statute. Two of them are chattel m'ortgages,
executed on the 20tU day of February, 1886, more than two
months before the assignment; one to Charles Hill and the
-other i6_Addie Kloppenberg. That these were executed without any thought of an assignment is clear. At the time there
was no threatened interference and no apparent danger of
trouble to Ott in his business. The one to Hill was to secure
him as an indorser. It is true, that while executed on February
29 and delivered to Hill, it was not recorded until the day before
the assignment; and this failure to record was upon an agreement made by Hill with Ott for fear that such record would
precipitate an atta6k upon the latter by his creditors. On this
,account it was adjudged void by the Circuit Court, a question
which we cannot consider, as, the amount of the mortgage
being less than five thousand dollars, Hill could bring no ap-

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBER COMPANY v. OTT.

633

Opinion of the Court.

peal to this court. But this stipulated agreement not to record,
while it may have vitiated the mortgage, in no manner affected
the assignment made long after, and for the reason that when
the one was executed there was no thought or intent on the
part of Ott of the other. The same may be said of the mortgage to Addie Kloppenberg. She was a minor, a girl of about
fourteen years of age, his granddaughter, of whose estate he
had been appointed guardian, and whose moneys he had taken
into his business. Security for these moneys he had been directed by the Probate Court, having charge of her estate, to
give. Instead of real estate security he gave this chattel
mortgage, and placed it in the hands of the attorney who was
looking after the business of the estate, with a like suggestion
not to record, and it was not in fact recorded until the day
before the assignment. That he had this amount belonging to
this minor in his possession is not questioned; that he gave
the mortgage under the direction of the Probate Court is not
disputed; and that he gave the same long before the closing
out of his business was thought of is clear. Of course, it was
not part of the assignment.
With respect to'the three other matters, there is more of a
question. It appears that on the 12th of April, on receipt of
a statement of account, Francis Beidler, the representative of
the appellant, came to Davenport to investigate the situation.
The outcome of that investigation was not satisfactory. A
demand was made for a reduction of the indebtedness. The
plain import of the interview was that things could not continue as they had been., Two or three days before the assignment the bank with which Ott had been doing business for a
series of years, and which had been discounting his drafts
before acceptance, and which was at s'ch time carrying about
$11,000 of such drafts, intimated that it must have acceptances
before discounting. His son, who was his principal salesman,
his only travelling man, returned from one of his trips. While
ordinarily selling from $18,000 to $20,000, his sales on that
trip had practically amounted to nothing. Strikes in the
Southwest were significant of labor troubles, and shadowed
the business outlook. With these accumulating facts, evidently

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Ott began to think that the end of his business career, at least
so far as his present undertakings were concerned, was at hand.
On the day before the assignment he gave to one Mueller, to
whom he owed about $9000, drafts on his customers for goods
sold to the amount of $1239.46., On the same day he gave to
vfcClelland & Co., to apply on a debt of $900, a like draft to
the amount of $660.80 ; and on the very morning of the assignment he sent a letter to George F. White, the agent of the
railroad company, notifying hirn that he might hold four carloads of glass, then in the possession and on the tracks of the
railroad company, as security for a balance of between eight
and nine hundred dollars of freight due.
Now, these transactions were but shortly prior to the assignment. They were in a general sense contemporaneous with it.
They took place when Ott was conscious of the impending
danger of the closing out of his business, and they operated
as preferences to these creditors. They were so nearly related
in time to the assignment, and made under such circumstances,
that if in an action at law and under proper instructions the
question had been submitted to a jury whether they were
made with a view to an assignment, and to evade the statute,
and the verdict had been in the affirmative, it would be difficult to say that such verdict was not warranted by the testimony. All this may be, must be, conceded; yet' over against
it are these matters: The positive testimony of Ott, that when
he gave these drafts to Mueller and McClelland, he had not
determined upon an assignment. He knew that he was in
financial trouble, and considered himself under special obliga:tions as to one at least of these debts. His purpose was simply
payment, and that he had a right to make. He supposed 'he
should have to stop business, but in what manner the close
should be brought about,' whether by the action of creditors
or his own volntary transfer, was undetermined. He wag
waiting and considering, and only decided upon an assignment
on the morning of the 27th. If such was the fact, then, within
the rules laid down by the Supreme Court of Iowa, these
preferences are not to be taken as part and parcel of the
assignment, or as vitiating it.

SOUTH BRANCH LUMBEIR COMPANY v. OTT.

635

Opinion of the Court.

In reference to the letter from Ott to White, with respect
to holding the four carloads of glass as security for freights,
it is clear that this was only putting in writing an agreement
made long before. For the testimony of White and Ott both
show, and to their testimony there is no contradiction, that
White, months before, had again and again urged prompt
payment of freights, and that Ott had agreed to always leave
on the track goods enough to secure any amount of freight
thas might be due. The prior agreement,-though oral, was
valid; and the letter was not a new contract, giving then a
preference, but only a written expression of that which had
theretofore been agreed upon, and agreed upon when there
was no thought of an assignment. This brings the transaction within the reasoning of this court in the case of -Dauseltv. Harrison,105 U. S. 401, in which, as against the claims of
an assignee in bankruptcy, a transfer made immediately before
the adjudication in bankruptcy was held to relate back and
to carry into, effect an agreement entered into long before,
and, therefore, not to be vitiated by the bankruptcy proceedings.
Further, it may be stated, as sustaining the conclusions ofthe Circuit Court, that the payments made by Ott during the
few days before and up to the very time of the assignment
were not extraordinary, not differing from the usual course of
his business in prior months. McClelland's and iMueller's were
only partia? payments, and made in consequence of repeatea
requests, so that he was not hastening unnecessarily to pay or
secure them. And, further, though there was a mortgage on
his homestead which he might have paid off, though there
was money in the bank which he might have withdrawn and
pocketed, he did neither; nor did he act as though intending
an assignment, or seeking to benefit himself as much as possible prior thereto. HB'is conduct seems to have been in the utmost
good faith; and while these drafts did operate to secure these
creditors a portion of their claims, yet they were not given
under such circumstances that the court must conclude that
they were in anticipation of an assignment; or find that he
was guilty of untruth in his testimony, that, when he made

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

them he had not decided what to do. As intimated, the testimony in reference to these last matters does not leave the
case free from doubt, yet we are of the opinion that the Circuit
Court rightly read it, and properly held that it was not shown
that at the date of those instruments Ott had determined upon
an assignment. They were, therefore, valid as in the exercise
by him of his undoubted jas disponendi; and the assignment,
subsequently determined upon and subsequently made, was
without preferences, was not void under the statute of Iowa, but
was a valid general assignment, transferring all of the property
then in his possession for the benefit of all his creditors.
The decree will be
._A/rmed.

DELAWARE CITY, SALEM AND PHILADELPHIA
STEAMBOAT NAVIGATION COMPANY v.

REYBOLD.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF DELAWARE.
No. 138. Argued January 5, 6,1892.-

Decided January 18,1892.

The plaintiff below sued, in assumpsit to recover from the defendant company the sum of $2898.18. The first count was for money had and
received to the plaintiff's use, being money paid by the United States for
the pilotage, hire and service of a steam vessel. The claim under this
count'was, that a contract had been made with the plaintiff by which he
was to prosecute the claim and receive to his own use whatever he might
get for it. Such claims being unassignable under Rev. Stat. ยง 3477, the
company received the money, and set up in defence as against the first
count (1), that it never made the contract, and (2), that the assignment
was illegal. The second count was for money due, and owing plaintiff,
for work and labor in the prosecution of the claim. The jury returned a
verdict for less than the sum claimed, without specifying under which
count the damages were assessed. The Court of Errors and Appeals of
the State of Dblaware affirmed the judgment on the ground that it had no
power to review the finding on a question of fact, and the finding on the
second count being in plaintiff's favor there was no error in the rendition of the judgment by the court below on such a finding. Held, that
the only Federal question raised in the case at the trial was not neces-

