XcdNEE v. DONAHUE.
Syllabus.

MoNIEE v. DONAHUE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
121. Argued and submitted December 14, 1891. -Decided January 11, 1892.
1W'o.
In ejectment plaintiff claimed title to certain parcels of land by purchase
from the State of California under its selection of lands as part of the
Agricultural College grant from Congress of July 2, 1862, 12 Stat. 603,
c. 1:30; certification thereof by the United States Land Department
thereunder; and subsequent. patent from the State to him. Defendant
claimed legal title by a prior purchase from "the State under prior state
selections, [1] by purchase and location of state land warrants issued by
the State under the grant of 500,000 acres made to it by section eight of
act of September 4, 1841,5 Stat. 453, c. 16, and [2] by purchase of indemnity land, selected in lieu of school sections sixteen and thirty-six, granted
by the act of Congress of March 3, 1853. 10 Stat. 244, c. 145, and lost by inclusion within Mexican grants subsequently confirmed; further claiming
that both selections were confirmed by the first section of the Act of
Congress of July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 218, c. 219, passed before the selection, certification and patenting under which plaintiff claims. Held,
(1) That the first sebtion of the act of July 23, 1866, must be construed
in connection with section two of that act, and, as thus construed,
it did not confirm the selections under the 500,000 acre grant, those
selections not having been made of lands previously surveyed by
authority of the United States: but said section, thus construed,
did confirm the lands selected in lieu of the school sections taken
by the Mexican, grants, such selected lands having been previously
surveyed by authority of the United States, and notice of such
selection having been given to the register of the local land office,
and the lands having been sold to a bona Yfde purchaser, in good
faith, under the laws of the State;
(2) That confirmation to the State of Its title ennred to the benefit of its
grantee without any further action by the land department or by
the State.
A legislative confirmation of a claim to land with defined boundaries, or
capable of identification, perfects the title of the claimant to the tract,
and a subsequent patent is only documentary evidence of that title.
No title to lands under the Agricultural College grant of 18(2, under which
plaintiff claims, vested in the State until their selection and listing to the
State, which was subsequent to the time at which the title of the United
States passed to the defendant.
No trust was created by such grant which prevented land subject to selection thereynder from being taken under prior selections in satisfaction

OCTOBER TERM, 1891,
Statement of the Case.
of other grants. No trust could arise against the State thereunder until
its receipt of all or a portion of the proceeds arisingfrom the sale of the
property, and no disposition of such proceeds could affect the title acquired by'other parties, from the sale of such lands therednder.
Defendant having, after his general denial of the allegations of the complaint, for a further separate answer and defence, set up his claim of
title to demanded premises by cross-complaint, and prayed affirmative
relief thereon by cancellation of the State's patent to the plaintiff, or by
charging him as trustee of the title and compelling him to convey the
premises to the defendant, such a mode of setting up an equitable defence to an action for the possession of land being allowable under the
system of civil procedure prevailing in California, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of that State, declaring such trust and directing such
conveyance, is affirmed.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This is an action for the possession of certain, parcels of
land in the county of Santa Clara, California, embracing one
hundred and six acres and a fraction of an acre, and constituting, according to the United States survey lots one (1) and
two (2), of section twenty-six (26), township six (6) south, range
one (1) vest, Mount Diablo meridian. It was brought in the
Superior Court of that county. The plaintiff, in his complaint,
alleges ownership of 'the lands and right of possession on the
16th of June, 1882, and ever afterwards; the wrongful and
unlawful entry thereon, on that day, by the defendant, and
his exclusion of the plaintiff therefrom, to the latter's damage
of -five thousand dollars; and that the value of their use and
occupation is two thousand dollars a year. He therefore prays
judgment for their possession, for the damages sustained, and
for the.value of their use and occupation until final judgment.
The defendant, in his answer denies the material allegations
of the complaint, and then, as a separate defence, by way of a
cross-complaint, sets up various matters upon which he claims
to have acquired the equitable title of the premises', and prays
that a patent of the State for them to the plaintiff, and upon
which he relies for a recovery in this case, may be adjudged
null and void, or, that he hold the legal title under it in trust
for the defendant, and be decreed to convey the premises to
him.

McNEE v. DONAHUE.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff answered the cross-complaint, and the case was
tried by the court without the intervention of a jury. After
finding the facts, it held, as a conclusion of law,, that the
defendant was entitled to a judgment; that the plaintiff take
nothing by his action; that the defendant was.entitled at the
commencement of the action, and was still entitled, to the possession of the prepmises, and was their equitable owner; and
that the plaintiff holds the legal title, under a patent by the
State of California, bearing date Juno 18, 1882. in trust for
the defendant, and should execute and deliver a conveyance of
the premises to hini. Judgment in conformity with this conclusion was accordingly entered. On appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State it was affirmed, and the case is brought to
this court, on writ of error, by the plaintiff.
.A&. S. F. Leib for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. Philip G. Ga1pin and -Mr. Wilbur. G. Zeigler for
defendant in error submitted on their brief.
MR. JusncE FI8LD delivered the opinion of the court.

Uyider the system of procedure in civil cases which obtains
in California an equitable defence as well as a legal defence
may be set up to an action for the possession of land. It is.
required in such case that the grouhds of equitable defence* be
stated separately from the defence at law. The answer, to
that extent, -is in the nature of a cross-complaint, and must
contain, substantially, the allegations of a bill in equity. It
must set forth a case which would justify a decree -adjudging
that the title held by the plaintiff should be conveyed to the
defendant, or that his action for the possession of the premises
should be enjoined. Wherever the-two defences are presented
in this way, the equitable one should, as a general rule, be disposed of before the legal remedy is considered. Its disposition
may, and generally will, render unnecessary any further proceeding with the action at law. Gibson v. Cho'teau, 13 Wall.
92, 103; Qainby v. Conlaw, 104: U. S. 420; E/tradav. .lurphy, 19 California 248, 273.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The controversy in this case involves a consideration of
different acts of Congress granting lands to the State of California. The question to be determined is to which of the
parties the title of the United States passed. The plaintiff
claims title under a grant made by the act of Congress of July
2,. 1862, 12 Stat. 503, c. 130, "donating public lands to the
several States and Territories which may provide colleges for
the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts," and amendatory and supplementary acts, contending that the premises
in controversy were selected as part of such lands apportioned
to the State of California and patented by the State to him.
The defendant claims title to the premises from two sources;
one, from the eighth section of the act of Congress of September 4, 1841, 5 Stat. 453, c. 16, granting five hundred thousand
acres of lands for purposes of internal improvement, to each
new State upon her admission into the Union, alleging that
the parcels in controversy are a part of such lands; the other,
from the sixth and seventh sections of the act of Congress of
March 3, 1853, granting to the State of California sections
sixteen (16) and thirty-six (36), of each township, for. the purposes of schools, and: providing for the selection in certain cases
of other lands in their stead, the parcels. in controversy having
been selected in part satisfaction of such school sections. 10
Stat. 244, c. 145.
It will facilitate the apprehension of the questions -presented
for determination if the claims of the defendant be first considered, and, therefore, to them we now direct our attention.
The act of Congress of September 4, 1841, to appropriate
the proceeds of the sales of the public lands and to grant preemption rights designates in its first section several States to
which ten per cent of the net proceeds of the sales of the public
lands, made after a certain date, within their limits, shall be
paid. Its eighth section is as follows: "And be it further
enacted, That there shall be granted to each State specified in
the first section of this act five hundred thousand acres of land
for purposes of internal improvement: Provided, that to each
of said States which has already received grants for said purposes, there is hereby granted no more than a quantity of land

McNEE v. DONAHUE.
Opinion of the Court.

which shall, together with the amount such State has already
received as aforesaid, make five hundred thousand acres, the
selections in. all of the said States to be made within their
limits respectively in such manner as the legislature thereof
shall direct; and located in parcels conformably to sectional.
divisions and subdivisions, of not less than three hundred and
twenty acres in any one location, on any public land except
such as is or may be reserved from sale by any law of Congress
or proclamation of the President of the United States, which said
locations may be made at any time after the lands of the United
States, in said States respectively, shall have been surveyed
according to existing laws. And there shall be, and hereby
is, granted to each new State that shall be hereafter admitted
into the Union, upon such admission, so much land, including such quantity as may have been granted to such State
before its admission, and while under a territorial government,
for purpose of internal improvement as aforesaid, as shall make
five hundred thousand acres of land, to be selected and located
as aforesaid."
The first clause of this section, it will be observed, uses the
words "there shall be granted," and not that "there is hereby
granted," and they import, as held in Foley v. lBarrson, 15
How. 433, 447, only that a grant shall be made in future. It
was accordingly adjudged in that case that a patent of Louisiana for lands selected by her officers from the grant to the
State under the act of 1841 did not pass the title to the
patentee, the court observing: "It could not have been the intention of the government to relinquish the exercise of power
over the public lands that might be located by the State. The
same system was to be observed in the entry of the lands by
the State as by individuals, except the payment of the money;
and this was necessary to give effect to the act, and to prevent
conflicting entries."
The authorities -of California gave a different construction
to the latter clause of the eighth section of the act of 1841.
The words there used are, "there shall be, and hereby is,
granted to each new State," which they treated as a present
grant of the quantity designated, and not as the promise of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

one in the fdture, construing the concluding words, "to be
selected and located, as aforesaid," as referring merely to the
form of selection and the quantity of the several-parcels, and
not as limiting the location to lands previously surveyed. And
.they did not see any policy or interest of the general government to be subserved by postponing the possession and enjoyment of its bounty, so long as conformity was ultimately
secured in the locations made with the public surveys. In
Doll-v. 2fXeador the Supreme. Court of the State said: "Conformity in the locations with the sectional divisions and subdivisions is required, to preserve intact the general system of
surveys adopted by the Federal government, and to prevent
the inconvenience which would ensue from any departure therefrom. When, therefore, any location is made by the State,
previous to the survey of the United States, it must be subject
to change, if, subsequenily, upon the survey being made, it be
found to want conformity with the lines of such survey. With
this qualification, and the further qualification of a possible
reservation by a law of Congress, or a proclamation of the
President, previous to the survey- which may require further
change, or the entire removal of the location - we do not perceive, either in the language of the act, or the object to be
secured, any limitation upon the right of the State to proceed
at once to take possession and dispose of the quantity to which
she is entitled by the grant. It would hardly be pretended
that she would be deprived of the bounty of the general government, if no surveys were ever directed by its authority, or
that the enjoyment of the estate vested in her would be suspended indefinitely, by reason of its inaction in the matter."
16 California, 295, 315, 327.
The State legislated upon a similar construction of the latter
clause of the act of Congress. Surveys of the public lands ii
California were not directed by auy law of Congress until the
year 1853, and were not made to any large extent for years
afterwards, but in May, 1852, in advance of such surveys, the
legislatur6 of the State passed an act providing for the sale of
the 500,000 acres. It authorized the governor to issue land
,warrants for not less than one hundred and sixty, and not

McNEE v. DONAHUE.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

more-than three hundred and twenty acres, in one warrant, to
the amount of the 500,000 acres, and the treasurer to sell them
at two dollars per acre, and the purchasers and their assigns
to locate them, on behalf of the State, uppn any vacant and
unappropriated lands belonging to the United States within
the State ot California, subject to such location, but it declared
that no such location should be made except in conformity to
the law of Congress, in not less than three hundred and twenty
acres in one body. The fifth section provid~d that the location should secure to the purchaser the right to the possession
of the land until the government survey, after -which the
lines of the location should be made to conform to the lines
of sections, quarter sections and 'fractional sections of such
survey.
In July, 1853, one James T. Ewing purchased of the treasurer of California, under this act, two land warrants, issued
by the governor of the State, each for one hundred and sixty
acres. These warrants, by various transfers, came, in September, 1853, into the possession and ownership of one Stephen
Franklin, who, during that month, located them upon three
hundred and twenty acres of land in Santa Clara County, in one
body, embracing the premises in controversy. The land located
was sufficiently designated by lines, distances and courses in
the field. The entry of the location was made in the office
of the clerk of the county, and the lands were surveyed by its
surveyor, who gave the locator a certificate setting forth its
bounds and the number of acres it included. The clerk thereupon recorded the certificate in the book of records of schoolland warrants in his office. The county surveyor afterwards
made out a duplicate of the survey and certificate of the location and forwarded them to the office of the surveyor general
of the State. The location was made in conformity with the
law of the State. The lands were unappropriated public lands
of the United States, and were vacant, exdept as occupied by
Franklin, the locator, and were located as part of the 500,000
acres granted to the State by the act of September 4, 1841.
Franklin was then in the actual possession of the 106.84 acres
in controversy, and other lands adjacent thereto, making, altoVOL. CXL-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

gether, -five hundred and seventy-eight acres, which were
cultivated and improved by him as a single farm. He occupied the whole tract until 1862, when his interest was purchased
by James Donahue, now deceased, who went.into possession of
the premises and continued in their use until his death in .1864
or 1865, when his interest passed by devise or descent to his
son, the defendant.
But, notwithstanding that in locating the state warrants
Franklin complied with the requirements of the state law,
and both he and his successor, James Donahue, continued in
the possession and use of the land, their claim of title to the
106acres under the location was not recognized by the
Land Department of the general government. A great number of similar locations were treated in like manner. The
right of the State to make any selections in advance of the
public surveys of the United States was denied by the department, upon its construction of the act of Congress. And even
when official surveys had pr6ceded the location, the transfer
of any title by the state authorities to the land located was
also denied, the department taking the position that, until the
lands selected were listed over or patented to the State, no
title passed from the United States.
Under this conflict of opinion between the authorities of the
State and of the Land Department as to the title to the land
located under the land warrants issued by the governor, great
embarrassment was experienced by holders of lands thus
located, and interests of vast magnitude, which had grown
up under the action of the State, were believed to be endangered. In this condition of affairs it is not surprising that the
holders of the lands resorted to various measures to strengthen
their title, and also sought relief from Congress.
There were several other grants of lands by Congress to th6
State, and for.their sale provision was also made by different
acts of the legislature. The act of Congress "to provide for
the survey of the public lands in California, the granting of
prein ption rights therein, and for- other purposes," passed
March 3, 1853, granted sections sixteen and thirty-six in each
township to the State, as already mentioned, for school pur-

McNEE v. DONAHUE.
Opinion of the Court.

poses. And the same act, among other things, provided that
where those school sections were taken by private claims other
lands might be selected. in their place by the proper authorities
of the State. Those sections in one of the townships in Santa
Clara County were included within the exterior limits of
Mexican grants, subsequently confirmed. Accordingly, in
1862, the state authorities took measures, pursuant to an act
of the legislature passed for such cases, to obtain other lands
in lieu of them, and selected the 1064 acres, in controversy in
this action, and other land adjoining them, making in all
225-.. acres, in, lieu of a portion of the school sections. The
State then sold the lands to James Donahue, mentioned above,
at the time a citizen of the United States, and he paid the full
purchase price therefor, the last instalment on the 20th of
January, 1861, and the State issued to him a certificate of
purchase. In May, 1866, the township, in which the lieu
lands selected were situated, was surveyed by the .authorities
of the United States, and the plat of the survey was returned
and filed in the United States local land office of the district
embracing the township. After the survey, and on the 30th
of May, 1866, the state authorities again, and in part satisfaction of the grant by Congress of the school sections, selected
and relocated the same 106A4 acres of land with the other
lands adjoining, and on the same day notified, in- writing, the
register of the United States land office for the district of such
selection and relocation. (Act 'relating to indemnity school
selections in the State of Califoriiia. 19 Stat. 267, c. 81.)
In 1864 the Supreme Court of California changed its previous ruling as to the power of the State to make selections from
the grant in advance of the surveys of the general government, receding from its decision in Doll v. Aeador cited
above, and holding that no title to any portion of the land
granted vested in the State until such survey was made, thus
giving no effect to the character of the grant as one in
presenti, and making the immediate enjoyment of the bounty
of the government dependent upon the action of the surveying officers, rather than the will of Congress. Ter-y/v. Xfegerle,
24 California, 609. This decision, whether or not subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

criticism, was subsequently adhered to, and has been since so
constantly followed -by that court as to be no longer open to
question; and the title of the State to the lands covered by the
grant in question has been adjusted upon its assumed correctness. For the time, however, it served to increase the embarrassments -previously existing of holders of locations made in
advance of such surveys. It left them without any protection
except that arising from their possession.
As stated above, relief was sought by an appeal to Congress
'from the embarrassments following this state of affairs, which
was asked not only for holders under the selections and locations mentioned, but also for holders under other grants to the
State, and such appeal resulted in the passage on July 23,
1866, of the act to quiet land titles in California. 14 Stat. 218,
c. 219. Upon this law the defendant relies for the confirmation of his title to the lands located under the land warrants
by his predecessor in interest, Stephen Franklin, ag part of the
500,000 acre grant, and that defence failing, upon the confirmation of his title to the indemnity lands selected in part satisfaction of the school sections taken by Mexican grants.
. The first section, of the act declared that in all cases where
the State of California had previously made selections of any
portion of, the public domain in part satisfaction of a grant
made to the State by an act of Congress, and had disposed of
the same to purchasers in good faith under her laws, the lands
so selected should be and were.thereby confirmed to the State.
The words of the section are, "the lands so selected shall be,
and hereby are, confirmed to said State." From this confirmation were excepted selections of lands to which any adverse
preemption; homestead or otherright had, at the date of the
passage of the act, been acquired by a settler under the laws
of the United States, and of lands reserved for naval, military
or Indian purposes, and of mineral lands, or of lands claimed
under a valid Mexicau or Spanish grant, or of laud which, at
the passage of the act, was included within the limits of any
city, town or village, or within the county of San Francisco.
The second' section provided that where the selections mentioned in the first section had been made of land which had

McNEE v. DONAHUE.
Opinion of the Court.

been surveyed by authority of the United States, it should be
the duty of the authorities of the State, where it had not
already been done, to notify the register of the United States
land office for the district in which the land was located, of
such selections, and that the notice should be regarded as the
date of the State's selection; and it required the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, immediately after the passage of
the act, to instruct the several local registers to forward to the
General Land Office, after investigation and decision, all such
selections which, if found to be in accordance with section one
of this act, the Commissioner should certify over to the State
in the usual manner.
The third section provided that where the selections named
in the first section had been made of land which had not been
surveyed by authority of the United States, but which had
been surveyed by authority of and under the laws of the State,
and the land sold to purchasers in good faith, such selections
should, from the date of the passage of the act, when marked
off and designated in the field, have the same force and effect
as preemption rights of a settler on unsurveyed public lands.
Under the provision of the first section of this act the defendant contends, and the court below ruled to that effect,
that the lands selected from the grant by the act of 1841, that
is, from the 500,000 acres donated to the State, were confirmed and the title of the State thereto perfected. The confirmation, it was argued, operated as a present grant, and
perfected the State's title from the date of the act. That
construction would undoubtedly be correct if the provisiong of
the first section were not modified by those of the second section. The first section declares in general terms that where
selections of any portion of the public domain have been made
by the State in part satisfaction of a grant of Congress to her,
and she has disposed of the same to purchasers in good faith
under her laws, the lands so selected are confirmed to the
State. The object of the section is to confirm the title to
lands thus selected and sold by the State. But the second
section declares that when the selections have been made of
lands surveyed by authority of the United States, it shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the duty of the state authorities, when it had not already been
done, to notify the register of the United States local land
office of such selections, and that this notice shall be regarded
as the date of the State's selection. It follows, therefore, that
the lands confirmed by the first section are those selected from
lands previously surveyed by authority of the United States,
and of which selection notification had been or should thereafter be given to the register of the local land office. Now it
does not appear, from the record, that any lands under consideration in this case were selected from the grant of 1841, that
is, from the grant of 500,000 acres, after the lands had been
surveyed by authority of the United States, and, of course, no
notification had been or could be given of any such selection.
The selections made under that grant, that is, the locations
upon the state warrants possessed by Franklin, were of lands
surveyed only by authority of the State, and such selections
when marked off and designated on the field could, by the
third section of the act of 1866, only have the force and effect
of preemption rights of a settler on unsurveyed public lands.
Such recognition could be of no benefit to the defendant in
establishing his defence in the present case. It is, therefore,
upon the effect of the act of 1866, on the lieu lands selected
in place of the school sections covered by the Mexican grants,
that he must rely. Notification of such selections was made
to the register of the local land office, after the survey in
May, 1866, of the to~vnship in which the selected lands were
situated.
It follows that by the first section of the act of 1866, as
modified by the second section, the lieu lands selected in place
of the school sections, after the survey of the township, were
confirmed and the title of the State thereto was perfected from
the date of the act. The legislative confirmation was not only
a recognition of the validity of the claim of the State, but it
operated as effectually in perfecting her title as a grant or
quit-claim from the government. As held in Langdeau v.
Hane, 21 Wall. 521, 530, "if the claim be to land with defined
boundaries or capable of identification, the legislative confirmation perfects the title to the particular tract, and a subsequent

McNEE v. DONAHUE.
Opinion of the Court.

patent is only documentary evidence of that title." The tract
confirmed here was of specific boundaries, and, after the
confirmation, no further evidence of the title of the confirmee
was needed. As this court said in TWitney v. Mrrow, 112
U. S. 693, 695: "If by a legislative declaration a specific tract
is confirmed to any one, his title is not strengthened by a
subsequent patent from the government. That instrument
may be of great service to him in proving his title, if contested,
and the extent of his land, especially when proof of its boundaries would otherwise rest in the uncertain recollection of
witnesses. It would thus be an instrument of quiet and security
to him, but it could not add to the validity and completeness
of the title confirmed by the act of Congress." The confirmation of the State's title enured immediately to the benefit of
her grantee, the father of the defendant, without any further
action of the Land Department or of the State.
The plaintiff contends against this conclusion that he obtained
a better right to the demanded premises under the grant of
July 2, 1862, to the State of land for the establishment of an
agricultural college, or college for the mechanic arts, alleging
that such premises were a part of the land apportioned to the
State under that grant. To the consideration of that position
we now turn our attention.
On the 2d of July, 1862, Congress passed an act "1donating
public lands to the several States and Territories which may
provide colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic
arts." 12 Stat. 503, c. 130. The first section provides as follows:
"That there be granted to the several States, for the purposes
hereinafter mentioned, an amount of public land, to be apportioned to each State a quantity equal to thirty thousand acres
for each senator and representative in Congress to which the
States are respectively entitled by the apportionment under
the census of eighteen hundred and sixty: P .vided, That no
mineral lands shall be selected or purchased under the provisions of this act." Under this section the State of California
became entitled to one hundred and fifty thousand acres for
the purposes designated.
The second section of the act provides as follows: "That

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the land aforesaid, after being surveyed, shall be apportioned
to the several States in sections or subdivisions of sections, not
less than one-quarter of a section; and whenever there are
public lands in a State subject to sale at private entry at one
.dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, the quantity to which
said State shall be entitled shall be selected from such lands
within the limits" of such State, and the Secretary of the
Intbrior is hereby directed to issue to each of the States in
which there is not the quantity of public lands subject to sale
at private entry at one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre,
to which said State may be entitled under the provisions of
this act, land scrip to the amount in acres for the deficiency
of its distributive share."
The act also contains various provisions intended to secure
the proper application of the proceeds of the sale of the lands
donated to the purposes intended. It .also declares that no
State shall be entitled to its benefits unless the State expresses
her acceptance of the act within two years from the date of
its approval, a period which was, by a subsequent act, extended for two years more. California, however, expressed
her acceptance within the time required, arid, on the 23d of
March, 1863, passed an act to create and organize the University of California, which embraced provisions for a college
for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts.
By subsequent acts the State was allowed to select the lands
granted from any lands within her limits, subject to preemption, settlement, entry, sale or location under any laws of
the United States. 15 Stat. 67,c. 55, ยง 4, p. 68; 16 Stat. 581,
c. 126.
On the 10th of September, 1873, one William W. Johnston
made application to the regents of the University of California
to purchase the one hundred and six acres and a fraction of
an acre in controversy in this case, under the act of Congress
of July 2, 1862, and his application was accepted. On the
following day, September 11, 1873, the land agent of the
university proceeded to select and locate several parcels of
land in the office of the register of the United States for the
district, including the lands which Johnston had applied to pur-

IMcN EE v. DONAHUE.

601.

Opinion of the Court.

chase, and gave him a certificate, he, at the time, paying
$111.8d, that being all that was then required of him. On
the 2d of November, 1874, the parcels of land selected were
certified by the Commissioner of the General Land Office as
being subject to selection under the act of July 2, 1862, and
free from conflict, and the list was approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, subject to any valid interfering rights existing
at the date of the selection. On the 24th of April, 1879, Johnston assigned and transferred his certificate of purchase to the
plaintiff, and he paid to the regents of the university-thebalance of the purchase price. At the time of his application
to purchase, and of payment on account, Johnston had notice
of the defendant's rights and interests in the premises; and
the plaintiff also had such notice at the time of the assignment to him and his payment of the balance of the purchase
money. On the first of June, 1882, the United States listed
over the lands to the State, and, on the 17th of that month,
the State executed her patent to the plaintiff for the premises
in conti'oversy. Upon this patent the plaintiff asserts title to
the premises and claims their recovery. The proceedings
taken for the acquisition of the land appear to have been
regular in form and to have been sufficient to transfer the
title to the State had not the property been previously vested
in the defendant by the purchase by his father of the lands
selected in place of the school sections covered by Mexican
grants.
Our conclusion is that, after the .confirmation by the first
section of the act of July 23, 1866, of the lands in controversy
selected in place of the school sections, the township in which
the selected lands are situated having been previously surveyed by authority of *the United States, the premises were
not subject to the grant to the State for the establishment of
an agricultural college. N o title to lands under that grant
vested in the State until their selection, and listing to the
State, which was some years subsequent to the time at which
the title of the United States passed to the defendant.
There was no such trust created by the act making the
grant of July 2, 1862, and its acceptance by the State, as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

prevent land, which .might otherwise have been selected for
the establishment of the college intended, from being previously selected by other grantees of the United States of
unlocated quantities of land. No trust against the State could
arise until proceeds from the sale of the property granted, or
some portioln of it, had been obtained and come into her possession. Whatever disposition she might subsequently make
of the proceeds, in carrying 'out the object intended, or in
defeating it, could have no bearing upon the title acquired by
other parties from the sale of the lands. 3fills County v. Rail,road Companies, 107 U. S. 557;'JrhigrantCo. v. County of
Adams, 100 U. S.61; Cook County v. Calumet & Cicago
Canal Co., 138 U. S.635, 655.
The judgment iaust, therefore, be
Afmed.

PHELPS v. SIEGFRIED.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 655. Submitted January 7, 1892. -Decided

January 11,1892.

'Invoices of merchandise entitled to free entry were required, in August,
1889, to conforni to the requirements of se6tions 2853, 2854, 2855 and 2860
of the Revised Statutes..
United States v. Mosby, 133 U. S. 273, affirmed and applied.

THIS action was brought against the collector of customs
at the port of San Francisco, to recover the value of ten
p ckages of tea imported by the plaintiffs in August, 1889.
The complaint averred that the merchandise in question was
entitled to free entry, but that, although plaintiffs had done
everything the law required of them, the defendant, as collector of the port of San Francisco, had refusqd to allow entry
of the said merchandise or to. deliver the same to the plaintiffs
except on the condition that plaintiffs should deliver to defendant a consular invoice from the 'United States consul at
Yokohama, Japan, declaring the cost or value of said merchan-

