NISHIMURA EKIU v. UIITED STATES.
Syllabus.

why it should be held that Congress intended that national
banks should not resort to Federal tribunals as other corporations and individual citizens might.. The fact that there are
cases between individual citizens of the same State in which
the Circuit Courts might have jurisdiction, as where the case
arises under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States, or the controversy relates to lands claimed under
grants of different States, so far from sustaining the contention that the phraseology in question was designed to limit
the jurisdiction as to national banks to such cases, justifies
the conclusion that it is only to them that the second clause
applies. The use of the word "between" is perhaps open to
criticism, but it seems to us cleir that the clause was intended
to have, and must.receive, the same effect and operation as
that of the proviso to the fourth section of the act of July 12,
1882, that is to say, that the Federal courts should not have
jurisdiction by reason of the subject matter other than they
would have in cases between, individual citizens of the same
State, and so not have jurisdiction because of the Federal
origin of the bank. But jurisdiction dependent upon diversity of citizenship was provided for by the first section and
the first clause of the first branch of the fourth section of the
act -)f 1887, and no limitation in that regard was intended.
- The demurrer was.rightfully overruled, and the judgment is
Affimd.

NISAIMIURA EKIU v. UNITED STATES.
AVPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN' DISTRICT-OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 1393.

Argued and submitted December'16, 1891. - Decided January 18,1892.

The act of March 3, 1891, c.551, forbidding certain classes of alien immigrants to land in the United States, is constitutional and valid.
Upon a writ of habeas corpus, if sufficient ground for the prisoner's detention by the government is shown, he is not to be discharged for defects
in.the original arrest or commitment.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
Inspectors of immigration under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 551, are to be
appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
The decision of an inspector of immigration, within the authority conferred
upon him by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 551, that an alien immigrant
shall not be permitted to land, because within one of the classes specified
in that act, is final and conclusive against his right to land, except upon
appeal to the commissioner of immigration and the Secretary of the
Treasury; and cannot be reviewed on habeas corpus, even 'if it is not
shown that the inspector took or recorded any evidence on the question.

HABDEAS CORPUS, sued out May 13, 1891, by a female subject
of the Emperor of Japan, restrained of her liberty and detained at San Francisco upon the ground that she should not
be permitted to land in the United States. The case, as appearing by the papers filed, and by the report of a commissioner Qf the Circuit Court, to whom the case was referred by
that court "to find the facts and his conclusions of law, and
to report a judgment therein," and by the admissions of counsel at the argument in this court, was as follows:
The petitioner arrived at the port of San Francisco on the
steamship Belgic from Yokohama, Japan, on May 7, 1891.
William H1. Thornley, commissioner of immigration of the
State of California, and claiming to act under instructions
from and contract with the Secretary of the Treasury of the
United States, refused to allow her to land; and on May 13,
1891, in a "report of alien immigrants forbidden to land
under the provisions of the act of Congress approved August
3, 1882, at the port of San Francisco, being passengers upon
the steamer Belgic, Walker, master, which arrived May 7,
1891, from Yokohama," made these statements as to the petitioner: "Sex, female. Age, 25." "Passport states that she
comes to San Francisco in company with her husband, which
is not a fact. She states that she has been married two years,
and that her husband has been in the United States one year,
but she does not know his address. She has $22, and is to
stop at some hotel until her husband calls for her."
With this report Thornley sent a letter to the collector, stating that after a careful examination of the alien immigrants
on board the Belgic he was satisfied that the petitioner and
five others were "prohibited from landing by the existing

NISHIMURA EKIU v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

immigration laws," for reasons specifically stated with regard
to each; and that, pending the collector's final decision as to
their right to lauid, he had "placed them temporarily in the
Methodist Chinese Mission, as the steamer was not a proper
place to detain them, until the date of sailing." On the same
day the collector wrote to Thornley, approving his action.
Thereafter, on the same day, this writ of Itabeas corpu8 was
issued to Thornley, and he made the following return thereon:
"In obedience to the within writ I hereby produce the body
of Nishimura Ekiu, as within directed, and return that I hold
her in my custody by direction of the customs authorities of
the port of San Francisco, California, under the provisions of
the immigration act; that by an understanding between the
United States attorney and the attorney for petitioner, said
party will remain in the custody of the Methodist Episcopal
Japanese and Chinese Mission pending a final disposition of
the writ." The petitioner remained at the mission house until
the final order of the Circuit Court.
Afterwards, and before a hearing, the following proceedings took place: On May 16 the District Attorney of the
United States intervened in opposition to the writ of ka1eas
corpus, insisting that the finding and decision of Thornley and
the collector were final and conclusive, and could not be reviewed by tht court. John L. Hatch, having been appointed
on May 14, by the Secretary of. the Treasury, inspector of
immigration at the port of San Francisco, on May 16 made
the inspection and examination required by the act of March
3, 1891, c. 551, entitled "An act in amendment to the various
acts relative to immigration and the importation of aliens
under contract or agreement to perform. labor," (the material
provisions of which are set out in the margin,') and refused to
'1 SEC. 1. "The following classes of aliens shall be excluded from admission into the United States, in accordance with the existing acts regulating
immigration, other than those concerning Chinese laborers: All idiots,
insane persons, paupers or persons likely to become a public charge, persons suffering from a loathsome or a dangerous contagious disease, persons
who have been convicted of a felony or other infamous crime or misdemeanor Involving moral turpitude," &c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

allow the petitioner to land, and made a report to the collector in the very words of Thornley's report, except in stating
By sections 3 and 4, certain offences are defined and subjected to the
penalties imposed by the act of February 26, 1885, c. 164, § 3, namely, penalties of $1000, "which may be sued for and recovered by the United States,
or by any person who shall first bring his action therefor," " as debts of
like amount are now recovered in the Circuit Courts of the United States,
the proceeds :tobe paid into'the Treasury of the United States." 23 Stat.
333.
SEC. 6. "Any person, who shall bring into or land in the United States
by vessel or otherwise, or who shall aid to bring into or land in the United
States by vessel or otherwise, any alien not lawfully entitled to enter the
United States, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or by both such fine and
imprisonment."
SEc. 7. "The office of superintendent of immigration is hereby created
and established, and the President, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate, is authorized and directed to appoint such officer, whose salary
shall be four thousand dollars per ainum, payable monthly. The superintendent of immigration shall be an officer in the Treasury Department,
under the control and supervision of the Secretary of the Treasury, to
whom he shall make annual reports in writing of the transactions of his
office, together with such special reports in writing as the Secretary of the
Treasury shall require."
SEC. 8. -"Upon the arrival by water at any place within the United States
of any alien immigrants it shall be the duty of the commanding officer and
the agents of the steam or siiliug -essel by which they came to report the
name, nationality, last residence and destination of every such alien, before
any of them are landed, to the proper inspection officers, who shall thereupon go or send competent assistants on board such vessel and there inspect
all such aliens, or the inspection officers may order a temporary removal of
such aliens for examination at a designated time and place, and then and
there detain them until a thorough inspection is made. But such removal
be considered a landing during the pendency of such examination.
shall fiot
The medical examination shall be made by purgeons of the marine hospital
service. In cases where the services of a marine hospital surgeon cannot
be obtained without causing unreasonable delay the inspector may cause al
alien to be examined by a civil surgeon, and .th Secretary of the Treasury
shall fix the compensation for such examination. The inspection officers
and their assistants shall have power to administer oaths, and* to take and
consider testimony touching the right of any such aliens to enter the United
States, all of which shall be entered of record. During such inspection
after temporary removal the superintendent shall cause such aliens to be,
properly housed, fed and cared for, and also, Tn his discre$ioir such as are

NISHIMURA EKIU v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the date of the act of Congress, under which he acted, as
March 3, 1891, instead of August 3, 1882; and on May 18,
delayed in proceeding to their destination after inspection. All decisiotis
made by the inspection officers or tl eir assistants touching the right of any
alien to land, when adverse to such right, shall be final unless appeal be
taken to the superintendent of immigration, whose action shall be subject
to review by the Secretary of the Treasury. It shall be the duty of the
aforesaid officers and agents of such vessel to adopt due precautions to prevent the landing of any alien immigrant at any place or time other than that
designated by the inspection officers; and any such officer or agent or person in charge of such vessel, who shall either knowingly or negligently land
or permit to land any alien immigrant at any place or time other than that
designated by the inspection officers, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or by both such fine and
imprisonment."
"The Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe rules for inspection along
the borders of Canada, British Columbia and Mexico so as not to obstruct
or unnecessarily delay, impede or annoy passengers in ordinary travel between said countries: 'Provided, that not exceeding one inspector shall be
appointed for each customs district, and whose salary shall not exceed
twelve hundred dollars per year.
" All duties imposed and powers conferred by the second section of the
act of August third, eighteen hundred and eighty-two, upon state commissioners, boards or officers acting under contract with the Secretary of the
Treasury, shall be performed and exercised, as occasion may arise, by the
inspection'officers of the United States."
SEc. 10. "All aliens who may unlawfully come to the United States
shall, if practicable, be immediately sent back on the vessel by, which they
were brought in. The cost of their maintenance while on land, as well asthe expense of the return of such aliens, shall be borne by the owner or
owners of the vessel on which such aliens came; and- if any master, agent,
consignee or owner of such vessel shall refuse to receive back on board the
vessel such aliens, or shall neglect to detain them thereon, or shall refuse
or neglect to return them to the port from which they came, or to pay the
cost of their maintenance while on land, such master, agent, consignee or
owner shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a
fine not less than three hundred dollars for each and every offence; and any
such vessel shall not have clearance from any port of t6 United States
while any such fine is unpaid."
Sec. 11 provides for the return within one year of any alien coming into
the United States in violation of law.
Sec. 12 saves all prosecutions and proceedings, criminal or civil, begun
under any act hereby amended.
By sec. 13 the Circuit and District Courts of the United States are "in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Hatch intervened in opposition to the writ of aleas corpu8,
stating these doings of his, and that upon said examination he
found the petitioner to be "an alien immigrant .from Yokohama, Empire of Japan," and "a person without means of
support, without relatives or friends in the United States,"
and "a person unable to care for herself, and liable to become
a public charge, and therefore inhibited from landing under
the provisions of said act of 1891, and previous acts of which
said act is amendatory;" and insisting that his finding and
decision were reviewable by the superintendent of immigration and the Secretary of the Treasury only.
At the hearing before the commissioner of the Circuit Court,
the petitioner offered to introduce evideice as to her right to.
land; and contended that the act of 1891, if construed as vesting in the officers named therein exclusive authority to determine that right, was in so, far unconstitutional, as depriving
her of her liberty without due process of law; and that by
the Constitution she had a right to the writ of habeas corpu8,
which carried with it the right to a determination by the
court as to the legality of her detention, and therefore, necessarily, the right to inquire into the facts relating thereto.
The commissioner 'excluded the evidence offered as to the
petitioner's right to land; and reported that the question of
that right had been tried and det6rmined by a duly constituted
and competent tribunal having jurisdiction in the premises;
that the decision of Hatch as inspector of immigration was
conclusive on the right of the petitioner to land, and could not
be reviewed by the court, but only by the commissioner of
immigration and the Secretary of the Treasury; and that the
petitioner was not unlawfully restrained of her liberty.
On July 24, 1891, the Circuit Court confirmed its commissioner's report, and ordered "that she be remanded by the
marshal to the custody from which she has been taken, to wit,
to the custody of J. L. Hatch, immigration inspector for the
port of San Francisco, to be dealt with as he may find that
vested with full and concurrent jurisdiction of all causes, civil and criminal,
arising under any 6f the provisions of this act;" and the act is to go into
effect on April 1, 1891. 26 Stat. 1084-1086.

NISHIMURA EKIU v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

the law requires upon either the present testimony before him,
or that and such other as he may deem proper to take." The
petitioner appealed to this court.
Mr.Lyman I-..

owry, for appellant, submitted on his brief.

Intervenor Hatch had no power or authority in the premises: first, because he was not legally and- properly appointed
an inspector of immigration; and s6cond, because the petitioner was ashore and within the United States before his appointment.
The act of March 3, 1891, creates a bureau of immigration,
and provides for the appointment by the President of the
United States, by and with the advice and consent- of the senate, of a superintendent of immigration, who shall have his
office in the city of Washington. As there is no provision in
the act for the appoi.tmenz of inspectors of immigration, such
appointment would necessarily, and by the universal practice
of the government be in the superintendent of immigration as
the head of the department of immigration. The superintendent of immigration was appointed by the President long after
the appointment of Hatch by the Secretary of the Treasury,
and long after Hatch had decided upon the rights of the
petitioner.
The petitioner having been brought ashore and within the
United States by Thornley, there was nothing for Hatch to
act upon, because if he were legally appointed inspector of
iimnigration his examination must be made on board of the
ship or after removal by him from the ship temporarily for
examination. He had no power or authority to examine into
the status of aliens already ashore in the United States.
Neither Thornley, Hatch nor the collector of the customs
obeyed the instructions of the act of March 3, 1891.
That act says: "The inspection officers and their assistants
shall have power to administer oaths and to take and consider
testimony touching the rights of any such aliens to enter the
United States, all of which shall be entered of record."

There

is in this case no such record as is contemplated by the statute.
VOL. cxmi-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

-The evidence shows the whole record made by Thornley,
]Hatch and the collector, and that consists of Thornley's letter
to the collector, the collector's reply, Thornley's report to
the collector and Hatch's report to the collector. There is
nothing in this record that shows that either Thornley, Hatch
or the collector administered any oaths, took or considered any
testimony touching the rights of the petitioner to enter the
United States or entered the same of record. Thoruley's letter to the collector shows that he intended to take testimony,
because he removed Nishimura Ekiu from the ship to the mission home, but Hatch received his appointment on the day
following the removal, and Thorley then ceased to act. It is
evident from an examination of his report to the collector that
Hatch did nothing but make a stereotyped copy of Thornley's
report.
The reports of Thornley and Hatch and the letter of the
collector thereto attached show that the decisions of Thornley,
Hatch and the collector were arbitrary, irregular and without
testimony.
The powers conferred upon inspectors by the act are of such
an extraordinary and far-reaching character, that it was the
evident intention of dongress that such a record of their proceedings should be kept, as would be of some service to the
government in case diplomatic complications should arise from
the execution of the law.
Notwithstanding that some of the cases heretofore cited
hold that the decision of the inspector upon the facts is not
reviewable by the courts, yet the court did inquire into the
facts in the cases of Cummings, Dietze and Bucciarello. It m
Cummings, 32 Fed. Rep. '5; In Pe ]ietze, 40 Fed. Rep. 324;
In re Bucairello,45 Fed. Rep. 463.
i.r. As8istant Attorney General Par;,erfor appellees.
MR. TdsTiF GR.Y, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
As this case involves the constitutionality of a law of the
United States, it is within' the appellate jurisdiction of this

NISHIMURA. EKIU v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

court, notwithstanding the appeal was taken since the act
establishing Circuit Courts of Appeals took effect. Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 5; 26 Stat. 827, 828, 1115.
It is an accepted maxim of international law, that every sovereign nation has the power, as inherent in sovereignty, and
essential to self-preservation, to forbid the entrance of foreigners within its dominions, or to admit them only in such cases
and upon such conditions as it may see fit to prescribe.
Vattel, lib. 2, §§ 94, 100; 1 Phillimore (3d ed.) c. 10, § 220.
In the United States this power is vested in the national government, to which the Constitution has committed the entire
control of international relations, in peace as well as in war.
It belongs to the political department of the government, and
may be exercised either through treaties made by the President and Senate, or through statutes enacted by Congress,
upon whom the Constitution has conferred power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, including the entrance of ships,
the importation of goods and the bringing of persons into the
ports of the United States; to establish a uniform rule of
naturalization; to declare war, and to provide and maintain
armies and navies; and to make all laws which may be necessary and proper for carrying into effect these powers and
all other powers vested by the Constitution in the government of the United States or in Any department or officer
thereof. Constitution, art. 1, sec. 8; Head .!oney C(uwes, 112
U. S. 580; C)hae Chan Ping v. United State8, 130 U. S. 581,
604-609.
The supervision of the admission of aliens into the United
States may be entrusted by Congress either to the Department
of State, having the general management of foreigni relations,
or to the Department of the Treasury, charged with. the
enforcement of the laws regulating foreign commerce; and Congress has often passed acts forbiddihg the immigration of particular classes of foreigners, and has committed the execution
of these acts to the Secretary of the Treasury, to collectors of
customs and to inspectors acting under their authority. See,
for instance, acts of March 3, 1875, c. 111; 1S Stat. 477;
August 3, 1882, c. 376; 22 Stat. 214; February 23, 1887, c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

220; 24 Stat. 414; October 19, 1888, c. 1210; 25 Stat. 566; as
well as the various acts for the exclusion of the Chinese.
An alien immigrant, prevented from landing by any such
officer claiming authority to do so under an act of Congress,
and thereby restrained of his liberty, is doubtless entitled to
a writ of -habeas corpus to ascertain whether the restraint is
lawful. Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536; United
States v. Jung Ah Lung, 124 U. S. 621 ; Van Shing v. United
States, 140 U. S. 424; Lau Ow Bew, Petitioner,141 U. S. 583.
A.:nd Congress may, if it sees fit, as in the statutes in question
in* United States v. Jung Ah Lung, just cited, authorize the
courts to investigate and ascertain the facts on which the
right to land depends. But, on the other hand, the final
determination of those facts may be entrusted by Congress to
executive officers; and in such a case, as in all others, in
which a statute gives a discretionary power to an officer, to be
exercised by him upon his own opinion of certain facts, he is
made the sole and exclusive judge of the existence of those
facts, and no other tribunal, unless expressly authorized by law
to do so, is at liberty to reexamine or controvert the sufficiency
of the evidence on which he acted.-.Afartin v. Mott, 12
Wheat. 19, 31 ; Philadelphia& Trenton Railroadv..Stimpson,
14 Pet. 448, 458; Bensonv. Xoffahon, 127 U. S. 45 ; In re
Oteiza, 136 U. S. 330. It is not within the province of the
ju .iciary to order that foreigners who have never been naturalizd, nor acquired any domicil or residence within the United
States, nor even been admitted into the country pursuant to
la w, shall be permitted to enter, in opposition to the constitutional and lawful measures of the legislative and executive
branches of the national government. As to such persons,
the decisions of executive or administrative- officers, acting
within powers expressly conferred by Congress, afe due process
of law. Murray v. Hobokcen Co., 18 How. 272; Rilton v.
.Merritt,110 U. S. 97.
The immigration act of August 3, 1882, c. 376, which was
held to be constitutional in the Head Xfoney Cases, 'above
cited, imposed a duty of fifty cents for each alien passenger
coming by vessel into any port of the United States, to be

NISHIihUR_ EKIU v. UNITED' STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

paid to the collector of customs, and by him into the Treasury,
to constitute an immigrant fund; by § 2, the Secretary of the
Treasury was charged with the duty of executing the provisions of the act, and with the supervision of the business of
immigration to the United States, and, for these purposes, was
empowered to make contracts with any state commission,
board or officers, and it was made their duty to go on board
vessels and examine the condition of immigrants, "and if on
such examination there shall be found among such passengers
any convict, lunatic, idiot or any person unable to take care of
himself or herself without becoming a public charge, they
shall report the same in writing to the collector of such port,
and such persons shall not be permitted to land;" and by § 3,
the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to establish rules
and regulations, and to issue instructions, to carry out this and
other immigration laws of the United States. 22 Stat. 214.
The doings of Thornley, the state commissioner of immigration, in examining and detaining the petitioner, and in
reporting to the collector, appear to have been under that act,
and would be justified by the second section thereof, unless
that section should be taken to have been impliedly repealed
by the last paragraph of section 8 of the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 551, by which all duties imposed and powers conferred by
that section upon state commissions, boards or officers, acting
under contract with the Secretary of the Treasury, "shall be
performed and exercised, as occasion may arise, by the inspection officers of the United States." 26 Stat. 1085.
But it is unnecessary to express a definite opinion on the
authority of Thornley to inspect and detain the petitioner.
Putting her in the mission house, as a more suitable place
than the steamship, pending the decision of the question of her
right to land, and keeping her there, by agreement between
her attorney and the attorney for the United States, until
final judgment upon the writ of habeas corpis, left her in
the same position, so far as regarded her right to land in the
United States, as if she never had been. removed from the
steamship.
Before the hearing upon the writ of' habeas corpus, Hatch

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

was appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury inspector of
immigration at the port of San Francisco, and, after making
the inspection and examination required by the act of 1891,
refused to allow the petitioner to land, and made a report, to
the collector of customs, stating facts which tended to show,
and which the inspector decided did show, that she was a
"person likely to become a public charge," and so within one
of' the classes of aliens "excluded from admission into the
United States" by the first section of that act. And Hatch
intervened in the proceedings on the writ of habeas corpus,
setting up his decision in bar of the writ.
A writ of habeas copus is not like an action to recover damages for an unlawful arrest or commitment, but its object is to
ascertain whether the prisoner can lawfully be detained in custody ; and if sufficient ground for his detention 'by the government is shown, he is not to be discharged for defects in the
original arrest or commitment. E xpate Bollman & Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75, 114, 125; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S.
509, 519; United States v. .feBratney, 104 U. S. 621, 624;
Kelley v. Thomas, 15 Gray, 192; The Zing v. Marks, 3 East,
157; Shuttleworth's Case, 9 Q. B. 651.
The case must therefore turn on the validity and effect of
the action of Hatch as inspector of immigration.
Section 7 of the act of 1891 establishes the office of superintendent of immigration, and enacts that he "shall be an officer
in the Treasury Department, under the control and supervision
of the Secretary of the Treasury." By § 8 "the proper inspection officers" are required to go onboard any vessel bringing
alien immigrants and to inspect and examine them, and may
for this purpose remove and detain them on shore, without
such removal being considered a landing; and "shall have
power to administer oaths, and to take and consider testimony
touching the right of any such aliens to enter the United
States, all of which shall be entered of record;" "all decisions
made by the inspection officers or their assistants touching the
right of any alien to land, when adverse to such right, shall be
final unless appeal be taken to the superintendent of immigration, Whose action shall be subject to review by the Secretary

NISHIMURA ERIU v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Treasury;" and the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe rules for inspection along the borders of Canada, British Columbia and Mexico, "provided that not exceeding one
inspector shall be appointed for each customs district."
It was argued that the appointment of Hatch was illegal
because it was made by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
should have been made by the superintendent of immigration.
Bat the Constitution does not allow Congress to vest the
appointment of inferior officers elsewhere than "in the E'resident alone, in the courts of law or in the heads of departments ;" the act of 1891 manifestly contemplates and intends
that the inspectors of immigration shall be appointed (by the
Secretary of the Treasury; and appointments of such officers
by the superintendent of immigration could be upheld only by
presuming them to be made with the concurrence or approval
of the Secretary of the Treasury, his official head. Constitution, art. 2, see. 2; United States v. -artwell, 6 Wall. 385;
Stantoa v. Wilkeson, 8 Ben. 357; Price v. Abbott, 1I Fed.
..
Rep. 506..
It was also argued that Hatch's proceedings did not conform
to section 8 of the act of 1891, because it did not appear that
he took testimony on oath, and because there was no record of
any testimony or of his decision. But the statute does not
require inspectors to take any testimony at all, and allows
them to decide oh their own inspection and examination the
question of the right of any alien immigrant to land. The
provision relied on merely empowers inspectors to administer
oaths and to take and consider testimony, and requires only
testimony so taken to be entered of record.
The decision of the inspector of immigration being in conformity with the act of 1891, there can be no doubt that it was
final and conclusive against the petitioner's right to land in
the United States. The words of section 8 are clear to that
effect, and were manifestly intended to prevent the question
of an alien immigrant's right to land, when once decided
adversely by an inspector, acting within the jurisdiction conferred upon him, from being impeached or reviewed, in the
courts or otherwise, save only by appeal to the inspector's

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

official superiors, and in accordance with the provisions of the
act. Section 13, by which the Circuit and District Courts of
,the United States are "invested with full and concurrent jurisdiction of all causes, civil and criminal, arising under any of
the provisions of this act," evidently refers to causes of judicial
cognizance, already provided for, whether civil actions in the
nature of debt for penalties under sections 3 and 4, or indictments for misdemeanors under sections 6, 8 and 10. Its intention was to vest concurrent jurisdiction of such causes in the
Circuit and District Courts; and it is impossible to construe it
as giving the courts jurisdiction to determine matterS which
the act has expressly committed to the final determination of
executive officers.
The result is, that the act of 1891 is constitutional and valid;
the inspector of immigration was duly appointed; his decision
against the petitioner's right to land in the United States was
within the authority conferred upon him by that act; no
appeal having been taken to the superintendent of immigration, that decision was final and conclusive; the petitioner is
not unlawfully -estrained of her liberty; and the
Order of the Circuit Court is afflrrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWE.R dissented.

BIRD v. BENLISA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 139.

Argued January 6,1892.-Decided January 26, 1892.

When land in Florida assessed for taxation is not assessed to the owner or
occupant, or to an unknown owner, and also by an official or, accurate
description sufficient to impart notice to the owner, the title of the purchaser at a sale made for non-payment of the tax so assessed is not protected by the provision in the'statutes of Florida limiting the'right of
action of the former owner, to recover the possession of the lands sold,
to one year after the recording of the taxdeed; but the sale and the deed
are nullities Within the decisions of the Supreme.Court of Florida.

