SUPPLY COMPANY v. LIGHT & POWER CO.
197 U. S.

299

Syllabus.

here no offer of the restoration of the status quo, if that were
practicable.
Doubtless it became the duty of the Securities Company to
end a situation that had been adjudged unlawful, and this
could be effected by sale and distribution in cash, or by distribution in kind, and the latter method was adopted, and
wisely adopted, as we think, for the forced sale of several
hundred millions of stock would have manifestly involved
disastrous results.
In fine, the title to these stocks having intentionally been
passed, the former owners or part of them cannot reclaim the
specific shares and must be content with their ratable proportion of the corporate assets.
Decree affirmed; cause remanded to Circuit Court with a direction to-dismiss the bill.

WESTERN ELECTRICAL SUPPLY COMPANY v. ABBEVILLE ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY.
ERROR

TO

THE SUPREME

COURT OF

THE -STATE OF SOUTH

CAROLINA.
No. 178. Argued March 14, 1905.-Decided April 3, 1905.

A foreign corporation sued in a state court appeared specially and objected
to the jurisdiction on the sole ground that the person served was notl its
agent within the meaning of the state statute; the lower court sustained
the objection, but on plaintiff's ippeal the highest court of the State
held the service good; defendant then demurred on the ground that the
statute as to service on foreign corporations was violative of the Federal
Constitution; on second appeal after the demurrer had been overruled
and there had been judgment for plaintiff on the merits, the highest court
ot the State declined to consider the constitutionality of the statute on
the ground that the question of jurisdiction had been settled on the first
appeal. Held, that the writ of error must be dismissed. Had the objection been raised in the first instance and disposed of on plaintiff's

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

197 U. S.

appeal, the adherence by. the state court on defendant's appeal to its
prior adjudication might not have cut off consideration of the Federal
question, but as it was not so raised, and as the state court could in its
discretion consider it as coming too late and refuse to pass upon it, the
jurisdiction of this court cannot be maintained.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Lee W. Grant, with whom Mr. Jackson H. Ralston and
Mr. F. L. Siddons were on the brief, for plaintiff in error, cited
Gt. West. Tel. Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339, in support of
the jurisdiction of this court.
Mr. William N. Graydon for defendant in error:
The Supreme Court of the State expressly refused to pass
on the alleged Federal question, and based its judgment on
another and entirely different ground. The Federal question,
therefore, is not involved at all in this case.
'Where the record discloses that if a questioli has been raised
and decided adversely to a party claiming the benefit of a
provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States,
another question, not Federal, has also been raised and decided against such party, and the decision of the latter question is sufficient, notwithstanding the Federal question, to
sustain the judgment, this court will not review the judgment.
DeSaussure v. Galliard, 127 U. S. 216; Chemical Bank v. City
'Bank, 160 U. 5. 646; Capital Bank v. Cadiz Bank, 172 U. S.
425; McQuade v. Trenton, 172 U. S. 636; Allen v. Southern
Pacific R. R. Co., 173 U. S. 479; Beals v. Cone, 188 U. S. 184;
Harrison v. Morton, 171 U. S. 47.
.The question decided by the Supreme Court of South Carolina is purely a local question.. Each State has a right to
declare the terms upon which foreign corporations shall do
business in the State, and the doing of the business is an acceptance of the terms imposed by statute. Simon v. Craft,
182 U. S. 427; New Orleans Waterworks Co. v. Louisiana, 185
U. S. 336i. The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution con-

SUPPLY COMPANY v. LIGHT & POWER CO.
197 U. S..

301

Opinion of the Court.

tains no restriction on the powers of the State. Brown v.
New Jersey, 175 U. S. 172.
To give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error for the review
of a judgment of a state court, it must appear affirmatively,
not only that a Federal question was raised, and presented for
decision to the highest court of the State having jurisdiction,
but that it was decided, or that its decision was necessary to
the judgment that was rendered. Adams County v. Burlington & Mo. R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 123; Chouteau & Maffit v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The Abbeville Electric Light and Power Company, a corporation of South Carolina, brought this action in the Circuit
Court of Abbeville County, South Carolina, against the Western Electrical Supply Company, a corporation of Missouri, by
service of summons and complaint on one George F. Schminke,
as agent of the defendant. The complaint alleged that "the
cause of action set forth herein arose in this State," and set
up the breach of a contract of guaranty in respect of a machine
for generating electricity sold by defendant to plaintiff. Defendant appeared specially and moved "to set aside the service
of the summons herein on the ground that the party served
with the summons and complaint herein on the seventh day
of November, 1900, was not an agent of the defendant." The
motion was heard on affidavits at the February term, 1901, of
the Circuit Court, the service set aside and the case dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
The Circuit Judge was of opinion that Schminke was not
"an agent in thd sense in which 'any agent' is used in the
Code." The case was then carried by appeal to the Supreme
Court of South Carolina, and thejudgment below was reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings. 61 S. Car.
361.
The court held, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice McIver,
that under the second paragraph of section 155 of the Code,

302.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

as amended by an act approved March 2, 1899, the facts being
considered in connection with section 1466 of the Revised
Statutes of 1893, as amended by an act of 1897, the service
was good and valid.
In this view the court said: "The case must be regarded as
a case in which a domestic corporation, having, as is supposed,
a claim against a foreign corporation doing business in this
State, arising out of a contract made anl to be performed in
this State, has undertaken to commence its action against such
foreign corporation by serving, personally, within the limits
of this State, an agent of such foreign corporation, with a
copy of the summons; and in such a case we do not think that
any authority, has been or can be cited, which holds that the
state court had not thereby acquired jurisdiction of the foreign
corporation."
On the other hand, the court held that if the case were one
in which the plaintiff, a domestic corporation, had brought its
action on a contract not made, and not to be performed, in the
utate, against the defendant, a foreign corporation, and had
undertaken to obtain jurisdiction by the personal service of
the defendant's agent within the limits of the State, even then,
as it appeared upon the facts that the agent was a representative of the defendant corporation in respect of the transaction
out of which the suit arose, and was served while within the
State for the purpose of attending to the business of the corporatiorp, the service was a good service.
The case having gone back to the Circuit Court, defendant,
by demurrer, renewed its objection to the jurisdiction, this
time "on the ground that subdivision 1 of section 155 of the
Code, providing for service. upon a foreign corporation, and
the act of the general assembly of South Carolina amending
the said section of the Code, by striking out the word 'resident,' approved March 2, 1899, are in contravention of the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States, and on the further ground that the act of
the General Assembly of South Carolina, entitled 'An act to

SUPPLY COMPANY v. LIGHT & POWER CO.
197 U. S.

303

Opinion of the Court.

further prescribe the terms and conditions upon which foreign
corporations may do business within this State,' approved
the second day of March, A. D. 1897, is in contravention of
the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States."
The demurrer was overruled and the case went to verdict
and judgment on the merits, whereupon it was again taken
by appeal to the Supreme Court. That court declined to express any opinion on the constitutional questions,
and affirmed
the judgment. 66 S.Car. 328. The court held the question
of jurisdiction had already been determined and that it was
not bound to reixamine it. This was, of course, a ground
broad enough to sustain the judgment, and as the objection
that the state statutes were inconsistent with the Federal
Constitution was not raised until the case came on for the
second hearing, it is plain that the Supreme Court could, in its
discretion, treat it as coming too late to call for decision. Had
that objection been raised in the first instance and been disposed of, then inasmuch as the judgment of the Circuit Court
was at that time reversed on plaintiff's appeal, the adherence
by the Supreme Court to its prior adjudication as the law of
the case, on defendant's appeal, would not in itself have cut
off consideration of the Federal questions; but it was not so
raised, and, as the case stands, we are of opinion that our
jurisdiction cannot be maintained.
Writ of error dismissed.

