OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 116. Argued January 6, 1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

The word "surrender," as generally defined, may denote either compelled
or voluntary action. In ยง 57 g of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, providing
that the claims of creditors who have received preferences shall not be
allowed unless such creditors shall surrender their preferences, it iq
unqualified and generic and hence embraces both meanings.
A penalty is not to be readily implied and a person subjected thereto unless
the words of the statute plainly impose it, and courts will not construe
the provision so as to cause the word "surrender," as used in ยง 57g of
the Bankruptcy Act, to embrace only voluntary action and thus read
into the statute a qualification conflicting with equality of creditors and
also creating a penalty not expressly or by implication found in the
statute. Such a construction would create a penalty by judicial action
alone and would also necessitate judicial legislation in order to define
the character and degree of compulsion essential to prevent the surrender in fact from being a surrender within the meaning of the section.
The creditor of a bankrupt, who has received a merely voidable preference,
and who has in good faith retained such preference until deprived thereof
by the judgment of a court upon a suit of the trustee, can thereafter
prove the debt so voidably preferred.
CHARLES

A.

GOETZ

became a voluntary bankrupt on Octo-

ber 12, 1900. George B. Keppel, the trustee, sued the Tiffin
Savings Bank in an Ohio court to cancel two real estate mortgages executed by Goetz, one to secure a note for four and
the other a note for two thousand dollars. The mortgage to
secure the four thousand-dollar note was made more than
four months before the adjudication in bankruptcy. The
mortgage securing the two thousand-dollar note was executed
a few days before the bankruptcy, the mortgagor being at the
time insolvent and intending to prefer the bank. The bank
defended the suit, averring its good faith and asserting the
validity of both the securities. In a cross petition the en-

forcement of both mortgages was prayed. The court held

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

Argument for Keppel, Trustee.

the mortgage securing the four thousand-dollar note to be
valid and the mortgage securing the two thousand-dollar note
to be void. The trustee appealed to a Circuit Court, where a
trial de novo was had. At such trial the attorney for the bank
stated to the court that the bank waived any claim to a preference as to the two thousand-dollar note, but that he could not
assent to a judgment to that effect. A judgment was entered
sustaining the security for the four thousand-dollar note and
avoiding that for the two thousand-dollar note.
The bank subsequently sought to prove that it was a creditor
of the estate upon the note for two thousand dollars, and upon
two other unsecured notes, aggregating $835. The referee
refused to allow the proof, upon the ground that, as the bank
had compelled the trustee to sue to cancel the security and a
judgment nullifying it had been obtained, the bank had lost
the right to prove any claim against the estate. The District
Judge, upon review, reversed this ruling. The Circuit Court
of Appeals to which the issue was taken, after stating the case
as above recited, certified questions for our determination.
Mr. John C. Royer, with whom Mr. Henry J. Wcller was on
the brief for Keppel, trustee:
For definition of "surrender" see Century Dictionary and
Bouvier's Dictionary. Congress intended a voluntary surrender. See act of 1867, ยง 23, 14 Stat. 517; Amendment of
1874, 18 Stat. 178. See cases in which the surrender clause
of the act of 1867, prior to its amendment, was construed.
Re Lee, No. 8179 Fed. Cases; S. C., 14 N. B. R. 89; Re Richter,
No. 11,803 Fed. Cases; S. C., 1 Dill. 544; Re Lelarjd, No. 8230
Fed. Cases; S. C., 7 Ben. 156; Re Stephens, No. 13,365 Fed.
Cases; S. C., 3 Biss. 137; Re Drummond, 4049 Fed. Cases;
S. C., 4 Biss. 149; Re Graves, 9 Fed. Rep. 816.
While some of the judges allowed a surrender pending litigation, no creditor has been allowed to surrender his preference
after judgment against him. See cases under the present act.
Re Owings, 109 Fed. Rep. 624; Re Keller, 109 Fed. Rep. 162;
Re Greth, 112 Fed. Rep. 978, follow the decisions under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Tiffin Savings Bank.

197 U. S.

former law. Re Richard, distinguished, the facts being different. The rule may be harsh but these cases show that
Congress intended the rule to be harsh.
Mr,. George E. Seney, Mr. Milton Sayler and Mr. John L.
Lott for the Tiffin Savings Bank:
The mortgage having been given by Goetz while insolvent,
and within four months of the filing of his petition in bankruptcy, by operation of law alone became absolutely void, and
the bank had no preference whatever. Under the law of
Ohio the title and possession both remain in the mortgagor
until condition broken. Ely v. McGuire, 2 Ohio St. 372;
Bradfield v. Hale, 67 Ohio St. 316, 323; Harkrader v. Leiby, 4
Ohio St. 602, 612; Sun Fire Office v. Clark, 53 Ohio St. 414,
424; Kernohan v. Mauss, 53 Ohio St. 118, 133.
As to Federal decisions, there is a contrariety of opinion as
to what constitutes a preference and as to when it shall be
surrendered in order to entitle the person holding it to prove
his claims. Most of the cases cited by opposing counsel arose
under the act of 1867, and were cases in which there had been
an actual payment of money, or the actual receipt or possession of property, or where the person had been a party to an
actual fraud, and cannot he held controlling here. For cases
bearing on the preference clause under the present law see
notes in 1 Fed. Stat. Ann., pp. 664, 665, and see Pirie v. Trust
Co., 182 U. S. 438, as to whether a payment of money was a
transfer of property within the meaning of the law. There
was an actual payment and delivery-a completed transaction-a passing of property. Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138.
The referee held that the bank had not made a voluntary
surrender of its so-called preference, and therefore was not,
entitled to prove its claim. By so holding the referee read
into the act something that is not there. The language of the
act is surrender, not voluntary surrender. If a referee may
inject into the act the word voluntary, it would be but a step
further to require that a willing, a cheerful or even a joyful

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

surrender be made. Webster defines surrender as the giving
or delivering possession of anything upon compulsion or demand, and the same definition is to be found in the Standard
and Century dictionaries. If the ruling of the referee be correct, then a creditor who, in good faith, has accepted a payment or security, without knowledge of the insolvency of his
debtor, must blindly surrender that which he has received,
without an opportunity for a determination of the question
of insolvency at the time of the receiving of the payment or
security, or of the question whether that which he has received
constitutes a preference. The creditor is not required to submit to the ruling of the referee, but is entitled to the decision
of the court upon the point. Section 57/.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE,

The following are the questions asked by the Court of Appeals:
"First. Can a creditor of a bankrupt, who has received a
merely voidable preference, and who has in good faith retained such preference until deprived thereof by the judgment of a court upon a suit of the trustee, thereafter prove
the debt so voidably preferred?
"Second. Upon the issue as to the allowance of the bank's
claims was it competent, in explanation of the judgment of
the Ohio Circuit Court in favor of the trustee and against the
bank in respect to its $2,000 mortgage, to show the disclaimer
made in open court by the attorney, representing the bank,
of any claim of preference, and the grounds upon which the
bank declined to consent to a judgment in favor of the trustee?
"Third. If the failure to 'voluntarily' surrender the mortgage given to secure the $2,000 note operates to prevent the
allowance of that note, does the penalty extend to and require
the disallowance of both the other claims?"
Before we develop the legal principles essential to the solu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

tion of the first question it is to be observed that the facts
stated in the certificate and implied by the question show that
the bank acted in good faith when it accepted the mortgage
and when it subsequently insisted that the trustee should
prove the existence of the facts which, it was charged, vitiated
the security. It results that the voidable nature of the transaction alone arose from section 67e of the act of 1898, invalidating "conveyances, transfers, or encumbrances of his
property made by a debtor at any time within four months
prior to the filing of the petition against him, and while insolvent, which are held null and void as against the creditors of
such debtor by the laws of the State, Territory or District in
which such property is situate," and giving the assignee a
right to reclaim and recover the property for the creditors of
the bankrupt estate.
On the one hand it is insisted that a creditor who has not
surrendered a preference until compelled to do so by the decree
of a court cannot be allowed to prove any claim against the
estate. On the other hand, it is urged that no such penalty
is imposed by the bankrupt act, and hence the creditor, on an
extinguishment of a preference, by whatever means, may
prove his claims. These contentions must be determined by
the text, originally considered, of section 57g of the bankrupt act, providing that "the claims of creditors who have
received preferences shall not be allowed unless such creditors
shall surrender their preferences." We say by the text in
question, because there is nowhere any prohibition against
the proofof a claim by a creditor who has had a preference,
where the preference has disappeared as the result of a decree
adjudging the preferences to be void, unless that result arises
from the provision in question. We say also from the text as
originally considered, because, although there are some decisions under the act of 1898 of lower Federal courts, which
are referred to in the margin,' denying the right of a creditor
IIn

re Greth, 112 Fed. Rep. 978; In re Keller, 109 Fed. Rep. 118, 127;

In re Owings, 109 Fed. Rep. 623.

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to prove his claim, after the surrender of a preference by the
compulsion of a decree or judgment, such decision rests not
upon an analysis of the text of the act of 1898 alone considered, but upon what were deemed to have been analogous
provisions of the act of 1867 and decisions thereunder. We
omit, therefore, further reference to these decisions as we shall
hereafter come to consider the text of the present act by the
light thrown upon it by the act of 1867 and the judicial interpretation which was given to that act.
The text is, that preferred creditors shall not prove their
claims unless they surrender their preferences. Let us first
consider the meaning of this provision, guided by the cardinal
rule which requires that it should, if possible, be given a meaning in accord with the general purpose which the statute was
intended to accomplish.
We think it clear that the fundamental purpose of the
provision in question was to secure an equality of distribution
of the assets of a bankrupt estate. This must-be the case,
since, if a creditor, having a preference, retained the preference,
and at the same time proved his debt and participated in the
distribution of the estate, an advantage would be secured not
contemplated by the law. Equality of distribution being the
purpose intended to be effected by the provision, to interpret
it as forbidding a creditor from proving his claim after a surrender of. his preference, because such surrender was not
voluntary, would frustrate the object of the provision, since it
would give the bankrupt estate the benefit of the surrender
or cancellation of the preference, and yet deprive the creditor
of any right to participate, thus creating an inequality. But
it is said, although this be true, as the statute is plain, its terms
cannot be disregarded by allowing that to be done which
it expressly- forbids. This rests upon the assumption that
the word "surrender'" necessarily implies only voluntary
actions, and hence excludes the right to prove where the surrender is the result of a recovery compelled by judgment or
decree.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

The word "surrender," however, does not exclude compelled
action, but to the contrary generally implies such action.
That this is the primary and iommonly accepted meaning of
the word is shown by the dictionaries. Thus, the Standard
Dictionary defines its meaning as follows: 1. To yield possession of to another upon compulsion or demand, or under
pressure of a superior force; give up, especially to an enemy
in warfare; as to surrenderan army or a fort. And in Webster's
International Dictionary the word is primarily defined in the
same way. The word, of course, also sometimes denotes
voluntary action. In the statute, however, it is unqualified,
and generic, and hence embraces both meanings. The construction, which would exclude the primary meaning so as
to cause the word only to embrace voluntary action would
read into the statute a qualification, and this in order to cause
the provision to be in conflict with the purpose which it was
intended to accomplish, equality -among creditors. But the
construction would do more. It would exclude the natural
meaning of the word used in the statute in order to create a
penalty, although nowhere expressly or even by clear implication found in the statute. This would disregard the elementary
rule that a penalty is not to be readily implied, and on the contrary that a person or corporation is not to be subjected to a
penalty unless the words of the statute plainly impose it.
Tiffany v. National Bank of Missouri, 18 Wall. 409, 410. If it
haq been contemplated that the word "surrender" should entail
upon every creditor the loss of power to prove his claims if he
submitted his right to retain an asserted preference to the
courts for decision, such purpose could have found ready expression by qualifying the word "surrender" so as to plainly
convey such meaning. Indeed, the construction which would
read in the qualification would not only create a penalty alone
by judicial action, but would necessitate judicial legislation
in order to define what character and degree of compulsion was
essential to prevent the surrender in fact from being a surrender within the meaning of the section.

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is argued, however, that courts of bankruptcy are guided
by equitable considerations, and should not permit a creditor
who has retained a fraudulent preference until compelled by
a court to surrender it, to prove his debt and thus suffer no
other, loss than the costs of litigation. The fallacy lies in
assuming that courts have power to irlict penalties, although
the law has not imposed them. *Moreover, if the statute be
interpreted, as it is insisted it should be, there would be no
distinction between honest.and fraudulent creditors, and therefore every creditor who in good faith had acquired an advantage
which the law did not permit him to retain would be subjected
to the forfeiture simply because he had presumed to submit
his legal rights to a court for determination. And this accentuates the error in the construction, since the elementary
principle is that courts are created to pass upon the rights of
parties, and that it is the privilege of the citizen to submit
his claims to the judicial tribunals, especially in the absence
of malice and when acting, with probable cause, without subjecting himself to penalties of an extraordinary character.
The violation of this rule, which would arise from the construction, is well illustrated by this case. Here, as we have
seen, it is found that the bank acted in good faith without
knowledge of the insolvency of its debtor and of wrongful
intent on his part, and yet it is asserted that the right to prove
its lawful claims against the bankrupt estate was forfeited
simply because of the.election to put the trustee to proof in a
court of the existence of the 'facts made essential by the law
to an invalidation of the preference.
We are of opinion that, originally considered, the surrender
clause of the statute was intended simply to prevent a creditor
from creating inequality in the distribution of the assets of the
estate by retaining a preference and at the same time collecting
dividends from the estate by the proof of his claim against
it, and consequently that whenever the preference has been
abandoned or yielded up, and thereby the danger of inequality has been prevented, such creditor is entitled to stand

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

on an equal footing with other creditors and prove his
claims.
Is thie contention well founded that this meaning, which we
deduce from the text of the surrender clause of the presert
act, is so in conflict with the rule generally applied in bankruptcy acts, and is especially so contrary to the act of 1867
and the construction given to it, that such meaning cannot
be considered to have. been contemplated by Congress in
adopting the present act, and hence a contrary interpretation
should be applied?
Without attempting to review the English bankruptey acts
or the provisions contained therein concerning what constituted provable debts, and the decisions relating thereto, it
is clear that under those acts, where a debt was otherwise
provable and the creditor had acquired a lien to which he was
not entitled, the English courts in bankruptcy did not imply
a forfeiture by refusing to allow proof of the debt because there
had not been a voluntary surrender of the preference. On the
.'contrary, where claims were filed against the estate by one who
was asserted to have retained a preference, a well-settled practice grew up, enforced from equitable considerations. The
practice in question was followed in the case of Ex parte
Dobson, 4 Deacon &-Chitty English Bankruptcy Reports, 69,
decided in 1834, and was thus stated in the opinion of Sir G.
Rose (p. 78):
"I apprehend the practice to be settled, where a creditor
,:.applies to prove a debt, and claims a right to property to
which the Commissioners think he has no lien, that the Commissionefs admit the proof,, and leave the question. to be controlled merely by retention of the dividend. This was settled
by'the case of Ex parte Ackroyd [1 Rose, 391], where the Commissioners had'rejected the proof of a creditor, because he had
received a portion of his debt, which the assignees contended
he was bound to refund; but When the question came before
Sir John Leach, as Vice Chancellor, he decided that the proof
of the debt was not to be rejected, because there was a question

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be tried between the bankrupt's assignees and the creditor,
although it was proper that no dividend should be paid on that
proof, until the question was determined."
And Erskine, C. J., p. 78, after assuming that the transaction
complained of might have been fraudulent and amounted to an
act of bankruptcy, said-italics mine-(p. 75):
"The next part of the prayer is, that the claim should be
disallowed. But though the assignment of the property may be
invalid, that will not invalidate the debt of the respondents. We
could not therefore disallow the claim, or expunge the proof,
if the claim had been converted into a proof; all that we can
do is, to restrain the respondents from receiving any dividends,
until they give up the property."
Thus the English rule substantially conformed to the construction we have given to the bankruptcy act before us.
Neither our bankrupt act of 1800, 2 Stat. 19, nor that of
1841, 5 Stat. 440, contained a surrender clause or any provision
generally denying the right of a creditor of a bankrupt to prove
his debt in the event that he had received a preference. But,
under those acts, bankruptcy courts must necessarily have
exercised the power of protecting the estate by preventing a
creditor having an otherwise provable debt who retained that
which belonged to the estate from at the same time taking
dividends from it.
The purpose of Congress when a forfeiture or penalty was
intended not to leave it to arise from mere construction, but
to expressly impose such penalty or forfeiture, is well illustrated by the bankrupt act of 1800, wherein numerous penalties
and forfeitures were explicitly declared. Two instances are
illustrative. By section 16 it was provided: "That if any
person or persons shall fraudulently, or collusively claim any
debts, or claim or detain any real or personal estate of the bankrupt, every such person shall forfeit double the value thereof,
to and for the use of the creditors." And by section 28 it was
provided that a creditor suing out a commission, who subsequently accepted a preference, "shall forfeit and lose, as well

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

his or her whole debts, as the whole he or she shall have taken
and received, and shall pay back, or deliver up the same, or the
full value thereof, to the assignee or assignees who shall be
appointed or chosen under such -commission, in manner aforesaid, in trust for, and to be divided among the other creditors
of the said bankrupt, in proportion to their respective debts."
The bankrupt act of 1867, c. 176, 14 Stat. 517, 528, contained the following surrender clause:
"SEc. 23.

.

.

.

Any person who, after the approval of

this act shall have- accepted any preference, having reasonable
cause to believe that the same was made or given by the debtor,
contrary to any provision of this act, shall not prove the debt
or claim on account of which the preference was made or given,
nor shall he receive any dividend therefrom until he shall first
have surrendered to the assignee all property, money, benefit,
or advantage received by him under such preference."
And section 35 of the act conferred power upon the assignee
to sue to set aside and recover illegal preferences, transfers,
etc., but there was'not contained in the section any provision
'
prohibiting the proof of claims after recovery by the assignee.
In section 39 of the act, however, which was found under the
head of involuntary bankruptcy, there was contained an
enumeration of the various acts which would constitute acts
of bankruptcy, and following a grant of authority to the assignees to sue for and recover property transferred, etc., by
the bankrupt contrary to the act, the section concluded with
the declaration that when the recipient had reasonable cause
to believe that a fraud on the act was intended, and that the
debtor was insolvent, "such creditor shall not be allowed tQ
prove his debt in bankruptcy."
I Passing the present consideration of the judicial construction
given to the act of 1867, and treating, as we believe should be
done, the restriction as to the proof of debts expressed in section 39 as applicable to.voluntary as well as involuntary bankruptcy, we think, as a matter of original interpretation, the
surrender clause of the act of 1867 not only fortifies but ab-

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

solutely sustains the construction which we have given to the
surrender clause of the act of 1898. Whilst the surrender
clause of the act of 1867 changed the method of procedure
prevailing under the English rule, and presumptively also
obtaining under the acts of 1800 and 1841, by which a creditor
holding a preference might prove his claim but was allowed to
obtain no advantage from so doing until he had surrendered
his preference, it cannot we think in reason be considered that
this mere alteration in the practice to be followed was intended
in and of itself to impose a penalty upon a creditor who did not
voluntarily surrender his preference. And this we think is
demonstrated when it is seen that after making the change as
to the procedure in the proof of debts by preferred creditors
there was subsequently embodied in section 39 an express
prohibition, in the nature of a penalty, forbidding the proof
of debt by a creditor who came within the purview of the
section. Either that provision solely related to proof of debts
embraced in the previous surrender clause or it did not. If it
did, then the expression of the penalty in section 39 indicates
that it was not deemed that the surrender clause contained
provision for the penalty, otherwise section 39 would in that
regard be wholly superfluous. If, on the other hand, it be
considered that section 39 embraced other debts or claims
against the estate than those to. which the surrender clause
related, then the expression of the penalty in section 39, under
the rule of expressio unius, could not by implication be read
into the previous surrender clause. That is to say, if section
23 and section 39 of the act of 1867 be considered as not in
pari materia, then it follows that the former, the surrender
clause, standing alone, did not impose the penalty or forfeiture provided for in the latter. If they were in parimateria,
then the penalty, whilst applicable and controlling as to both,
because of its expression in the later section, cannot be said
to have existed alone in and by virtue of an earlier section,
wherein no penalty was expressed.
The decisions of the lower Federal courts interpreting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

sections in question, as they stood prior to the amendment of
section 39 of the act of 1874, hereafter to be referred to, were
numerous, and we shall not attempt to review them in detail.
They will be found collected in a note contained in the eleventh
edition of Bump on Bankruptcy, pp. 550 et seq. Disregarding
the discord of opinion shown by those decisions concerning
what constituted an involuntary surrender-that is, whether
it was involuntary if made at any time after suit brought by
the assignee, or was only so after recovery by the force of a
judgment or decree-and putting out of view also the differences of npinion which were engendered by the fact that the
forfeiture imposed by section 39 was found in that portion of
the act of .1867 which related to involuntary bankruptcy, we
think the decisions under the act of 1867, prior to the amendment of 1874, may be classified under four headings.
First. The cases which held that the prohibition of section 39
against the proof of debt operated as a bar to such proof, even
although there was a voluntary surrender, where the preference had the characteristics pointed out in section 39. These
cases were, however, contrary to the great weight of authority
under the act, and the construction which they enforced may
be put out of view.
Second. Those cases which, whilst treating the surrender
clause as giving a creditor an alternative which he might exercise without risk of penalty or forfeiture, yet held that by the
operation of section 39 upon the surrender clause the creditor
lost the option to prove his claim, when the surrender was
compelled by a judgment or decree at the suit of the assignee.
The cases enforcing this interpretation constituted the weight
of authority, and such construction may, therefore, be said to
have been that generally accepted, and, in our judgment, was
the correct one.
These cases, which thus held that the loss of the right to
prove, after compulsory surrender, arose not from the surrender clause independently considered, but solely from the
operation upon that clause of section 39, are exemplified by

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN S'AVINGS BANK.
* 197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the case of In re Leland, 7 Ben. 156, opinion of Blatchford, J.
In that case, after holding (p. 162) that the prohibition of
section 39 applied as well to cases of voluntary as to cases of
involuntary bankruptcy, the court came to consider the surrender clause of section 23 as affected by the penalty provided
for in section 39, and said:
"This provision is to be construed in connection, and in
harmony, with the provision of the twenty-third section, before cited. If, under the twenty-third section, the preferred
creditor were allowed to surrender to the assignee the property
received in preference, even after it had been recovered back
by the assignee, as mentioned in the thirty-ninth section, so
as to be able to prove his debt, no creditor taking a preference
would ever be debarred from proving his debt. If, under the
thirty-ninth section, it were held that the mere taking of a
preference by a creditor would debar him from proving his
debt, without the precedent necessity for a recovery back by
the assignee of the property conveyed in preference, there
never could be any scope for the operation of the twentythird section in respect to a surrender."
Thus clearly pointing out that by the surrender clause alone
the creditor would not be debarred from proving his claim if
in fact there had been a surrender, whether voluntary or riot,
but that as a result solely of the prohibition of section 39 the
creditor would be barred after recovery by the assignee.
Third. Cases which treated the surrender clause as in and
of itself forbidding a surrender after recovery, because the recovery authorized by section 35 was the antithesis of the surrender and precluded a surrender after recovery. This class of
cases in effect treated the prohibition expressed in section 39
as unnecessary, quoad the subject matters to which sections 23
and 35 were addressed. The cases, however, were few in
number, and are illustrated by the case of In re Tonkin,
4 N. B. R. 52.
Fourth. Cases which without seemingly considering the
incongruity of the reasoning adopted both theories; treated
VOL. Cxcvi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

sections 23, 35 and 39 as in pari materia, and hence applied
the prohibition of section 39 to the other two sections, and yet
reasoned to show that the surrender clause alone prohibited
a surrender after recovery by the assignee. This class of cases
is illustrated by In re Richter, 1 Dill. 544; 4 N. B. R. 221. In
that case a creditor, who, in consequence of a recovery by the
assignee, had surrendered a preference, sought to prove his
claim against the estate, and his right to do so was resisted.
Analyzing the act and stating the different constructions of
which it was susceptible, the court expressly declared that the
correct view was to construe sections 23, 35 and 39 together,
and that the result of so doing would be to annex to both
sections 35 and 23 the penalty provided in section 39. The
surrender clause was then noticed, it being said:
"It is urged by the claimants that this refusal was erroneous
because they had, before the time when they made their motion, surrendered to the assignee all property received by them
under the preference. This devolves upon us the duty of
interpreting the meaning of the word surrender, as it is here
used. And it is our opinion, that a creditor who receives
goods by way of fraudulent preference, and who refuses the
demand therefor which the assignee is authorized to make
(section 15), denies his liability, allows suit to be commenced
by the assignee, defends it, goes to trial, is defeated and judgment passes against him, which he satisfies on execution,
cannot be said within the meaning of the statute, to have
surrendered to the assignee the property received by him under
such preference. He has surrendered nothing."
As an alternative, however, to this view, and treating the
sections referred to as in pari materia, it was reiterated that
section 23 was limited and controlled by the penalty provided
in section 39.
We need not further notice the cases under the act of 1867,
because of the action of Congress on the subject. In 1874,
18 Stat. 178, section 39 of the act of 1867 was amended and
reenacted. That amendment consisted of omitting the for-

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.

197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

feiture clause as originally contained in the section and substituting in its stead the following proviso:
"Provided, . . . and such person, if a creditor, shall
not, in cases of actual fraud on his part, be allowed to prove
for more than a moiety of his debt; and this limitation on the
proof of debts shall apply to cases of voluntary as well as
involuntary bankruptcy."
Plainly, this amendment not only abolished the penalty
provided in section 39 as originally enacted, since it allowed
a creditor to prove his claim for the whole amount thereof after
recovery against him if he had not been guilty of actual fraud,
and even in case of actual fraud after recovery permitted him
to prove for a moiety. The amendment clearly also was
repugnant to that construction of the act of 1867 given in
some of the cases to which we have referred under the third
classification, wherein in the reasoning employed it was assumed that a forfeiture or penalty might be implied alone from
the terms of the surrender clause, irrespective of the operation
of section 39. This results from the very words of the amendment, which says, and this limitation on the proof of debts shall
apply, etc., showing that the restriction on the right to prove
after a compulsory yielding up of a preference was deemed by
Congress to result, not from the surrender clause, but from the
limitation expressly declared by section 39 as amended, which
operated a qualification of the broad terms of the surrender
clause. It manifestly also arises from the fact that whilst Congress plainly intended by the amendment to make a change in
the rigor of the rule previously obtaining, the phraseology of the
surrender clause as originally found in the act was not altered.
After the adoption of the amendment of 1874 it is true that
in one or two instances it was held that the amendment, instead of mitigating the severity of section 39 as it stood before
the amendment, had increased it by adding an additional
limitation, viz., prohibiting a preferred creditor who had been
guilty of actual fraud from proving for more than one-half
of his claim, even where he had voluntarily surrendered his

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

preference. But these were isolated cases, since practically
the otherwise universal construction was that the amendment was remedial and intended by Congress to mitigate,
even in cases of actual fraud, the severity of the prohibition of
section 39 as originally enacted.
The import of the amendment was tersely stated by Mr.
Justice Clifford in in re Reed, 3 Fed. Rep. 798, 800, as follows:
"Beyond doubt the question must depend upon the true
construction of the act of Congress, and I am of opinion that
Congress intended to moderate the rigor of the prior rules and
to allow the creditors, after payment back of the preference,
whether by suit or otherwise, to prove their whole debt, in
case they had been guilty of no actual fraud."
And such construction was also expounded in the following
cases: In re Currier (1875), 2 Lowell, 436; Burr v. Hopkins,
(1875) 6 Biss. 345, per Drummond, J.; In re Black (1878),
17 N. B. R. 399, per Lowell, J.; In re Newcomer (1878), 18
N. B. R. 85, per Blodgett, J.; In re Kaufman (1879), 19 N. B.
R. 283, per Nixon, D. J.; In re Cadwell (1883), 17 Fed. Rep.
693, per Coxe, J.
The meaning of the amendment of 1874 was considered by
the Court of Appeals of New York in the case of Jefferson
County National Bank v. Streeter, 106 N. Y. 186. The New
York court expressly adopted the construction given in the
cases to which reference has just been made, and its action
in so doing was affirmed by this court in Streeter v. Jefferson
County Bank, 147 U. S. 36.
It follows that the construction which we at the outset gave
to the text of the act of 1898, instead of being weakened, is
absolutely sustained by a consideration of the act of 1867,
both before and after the amendment of 1874, and the decisions
construing the same, since in the present act, 4s we have
said, there is nowhere found any. provision imposing even
the modified penalty which was expressed in the amendment
of 1874. The contention that because the act of 1898 contains a surrender clause, therefore it must be assumed that

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Congress intended to inflict the penalty originally imposed by
section 39 of the act of 1867 must rest upon the erroneous
assumption that that penalty'was the result of the surrender
clause alone. But this, as we have seen, is a misconception,
since from the great weight of judicial authority, under the act
of 1867, as well as by the express enactment of Congress in.
the amendment of 1874 and the decisions which construed
that amendment, it necessarily results that the penalty enforced under the act of 1867 arose not, from the surrender
clause standing alone, but solely from the operation upon that
clause of the express prohibition contained in section 39 of
that act. When, therefore, Congress in adopting the present
act omitted to reinact the provision of the act of 1867, from
which alone the penalty or forfeiture arose, it cannot in reason be said that the omission to impose the penalty gives rise
to the implication that it was the intention of Congress to
reinact it. In other words, it cannot be declared that a penalty is to be enforced because the statute does not impose it.
And, irrespective of this irresistible implication, a general
consideration of the present act persuasively points out the
purpose contemplated by Congress in refraining from renacting the penalty contained in section 39'of the act of 1867.
Undoubtedly the preference clauses of the present act, differing in that respect from the act of 1867, as is well illustrated by
the facts of this case, include preferences where the creditor
receiving the same acted without knowledge of any wrongful
intent on the part of the debtor and in the utmost good faith.
-Piriev. Chicago Title & Trust Co., 182 U S. 438, 454. 'Having
thus broadened the preference clauses so as to make them
include acts never before declared by Congress to be illegal,
it may well be presumed that Congress, when it enacted the
surrender clause in the present act, could not have contemplated that that clause should be construed as' inflicting a
penalty upon creditors coming within the scope of the enlarged
preference clauses of the act of 1898, thereby entailing an unjust and unprecedented result.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
DAY, HARLAN, BREWER and BRowN, JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

Our conclusion, therefore, is that the first question propoonded must be answered in the affirmative, and that the
two other questions require no response.
And it is ordered accordingly.

MR.

JUSTICE DAY,

with whom

JUSTICES HARLAN, BREWER

and BROWN concurred, dissenting.
I am unable to agree with the construction given to the
sections of the bankruptcy act under consideration, and because of the importance of the questions involved have deemed
proper a statement of the conclusions reached.
Notwithstanding the first question propounded by the
Court of Appeals presupposes that the $2,000 mortgage was
a preference within the meaning of the. bankrupt act, it is
argued on behalf of the creditors that although the mortgage,
made a few days prior to the bankruptcy proceedings and
when the bankrupt was insolvent, was void under section 6343
of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, as amended April 26, 1898,
93 Ohio Laws, p. 290, read in connection with section 67,
paragraph e, of the bankruptcy act, it did not constitute a
preference which must be surrendered, preliminary to proof
of the creditor's claim, because there was no actual transfer
of any property to the creditor, and the only thing obtained
was a void mortgage.
The Ohio statute makes provision, among other things, as
to sales, etc., in trust or otherwise, in contemplation of insolvency, or with a design to prefer one or more creditors to
the exclusion, in whole or in part, of others, and sets forth:
"And every such sale, conveyance, transfer, mortgage or
assignment made, . . . by any debtor or debtors, in the
event of 'adeed of assignment being filed within ninety (90)
days after the giving or doing of such thing or act, shall be
conclusively deemed and held to be fraudulent, and shall be
held to be void as to the assignee of such debtor or debtors,
whereupon proof shown, such debtor or debtors was or were actually insolvent at the time of the giving or doing of such act

KEPPEL -v. TIFFIN 'SAVINGS BANK,
197 U S.

DAY, HARLAN, BREWER

and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

or thing, whether he or they had knowledge of such insolvency
or not.

.

By section 67, paragraph e, of the bankrupt act, it is provided:
"And all conveyances, transfers, or encumbrances of his
property made by a debtor at any time within four months
prior to the filing of the petition against him, and while insolvent, which are held null and void as against the creditors
of such debtor by the laws of the State, Territory, or District
in which such property is situate, 'shall be deemed null and void
under this act against the creditors of such debtor if he be
adjudged a bankrupt, and such property shall pass to the
assignee and be by him reclaimed and recovered for the benefit
of the creditors of the bankrupt." .
Under section 60 of the bankruptcy act of 1898 it was
provided:
"a. A person shall be deemed to have given a preference if,
being insolvent, he has procured or suffered a judgment to be
entered against himself in favor of any person, or made a
transfer of any of his property, and the effect of the enforcement of such judgment or transfer will -enable any one of his
creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than any
other of such creditors of the same class.
"b. If a bankrupt shall have given a preference within four
months before the filing of a petition, or after the filing of the
petition and before the adjudication, and the person.receiving
it, or to be benefited thereby, or his agent acting therein, shall
have had reasonable cause to believe that it was intended
thereby to give a preference, it shall be voidable by the trustee,
and he may recover the property or its value from such person."
In section 1, paragraph 25, of the act of 1898, a "transfer"
is defined to include the sale and every other -and different
mode of disposing of or parting with the property or the possession of property, absolutely or conditionally, as a payment,
pledge, mortgage, gift or security.
This definition of a transfer covers a mortgage given for the

OCTOtER TERM, 1904.
DAY, HARLAN, BREWER

and

BROWN,

JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

security of a debt in express terms, and section 60 provides
that preferences shall include transfers, the effect of the enforcement of which would be to enable any one of the bankrupt's creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt
than other creditors of the same class.
It is true that if the mortgage is void, it can have no etrect
to diminish the estate of the bankrupt, but upon its face the
mortgage is good as against the bankrupt and the creditors
of the estate.
It is said that the mortgage being void, the creditor had
nothing to surrender- but this assumes the invalidity of the
security. Until set aside or voluntarily surrendered it is a
good encumbrance upon the property, whether regarded as
a conditional conveyance or as a mere security for the debt.
It could be set aside by the trustee upon proof of insolvency
of the bankrupt and other conditions named in the act at the
time of giving it; otherwise it would stand as a valid security,
unless the creditor should elect to surrender it and make proof
of his claim as a general creditor.
There seems to be no question that, upon its face, though
void in the light of the facts found, this mortgage was one of
the transfers of property which was invalidated by the act, it
being given within the time limited, and at a time when the
bankrupt was in fact insolvent, and expressly made void by
the Ohio statute when read with the bankrupt act of 1898.
The answer to the first question requires a consideration
of paragraph 57g of the act of 1898, which, as it stood prior to
the amendment of February 5, 1903, read: "The claims of
creditors, who have received preferences shall not be allowed
unless such creditors shall surrender their preferences." May
a creditor who has received a preference, voidable by the act,
contest the validity thereof, and if it is declared invalid, still
prove his debt upon surrender of his preference as though no
contest had been had?
It was held by this court in Pirie v. Chicago Title & Trust
Conmpany, 182 U. S. 438, that a creditor who had received a

KRPPEL i). TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 V. S.

DAY, HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

preference, although he did not have reason to believe that one
was intended, could only keep the property transferred upon
condition of refraining from proof of the balance of his debt.
It was pointed out in that case, in the opinion of the court
by Mr. Justice McKenna, that section 60 in its various provisions permitted a creditor, who had innocently received a
preference, to hold it if he chose, and it could only be recovered
by the trustee in the event that he had reasonable cause to
believe that a preference was intended, in which case the
trustee might recover the property or its value. But the innocent creditor might keep the property transferred to him,
although a preference within the definition of the act, upon
terms of non-participation in the bankruptcy estate in the
general distribution to the creditors.
Section 23 of the bankruptcy act of 1867 provided:"
Any person who, after the approval of this act shall have
accepted any preference, having reasonable cause to believe
that the same was made or given by the debtor, contrary to
any provision of this act, shall not prove the debt or claim on
account of which the preference was made or given, nor shall
he receive any dividend therefrom until he shall first have
surrendered to the assignee all property, money, benefit or
advantage received by him under such preference." Section 57g of the present act, prior to the amendment of February 5, 1903, required broadly that claims of creditors who
have received preferences shall be surrendered, and that the
same shall not be allowed unless this is done.
Under the former act the surrender was required of creditors
who had accepted preferences, having reasonable cause to
believe the same contrary to the provisions of the act, and such
creditor could not receive any dividend until he had first surrendered the preference. In passing the act of 1898, Congress
doubtless had before it prior legislation on the subject, and
particularly the act of 1867,. the most recent enactment on
the subject.
Section 57g provides that all preferences, whether innocent

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
DAY,

HARLAN, BREWER

and

BROWN,

JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

or otherwise, shall be surrendered before the creditor can
prove his claim, and the right of proof is not postponed until
the surrender, but claims are not to be allowed unless creditors
shall surrender their preferences. The element of time is
indicated in the word "until," which means to the time of,
or up to, while the use of "unless" more emphatically denies
the right of proving the claim, save or except upon terms of
relinquishing the preference.
In view of the purpose of the bankruptcy act to make an
equal distribution of the bankrupt's estate among creditors
of the same class and to avoid preferences made within four
months, I think, having in view the first question put by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, that the sections of the law in question must be construed to put a creditor who has received a
merely voidalcle preference, which could be recovered from him
by the trustee, to his election between striving to retain that
which he has received, and voluntarily surrendering his preference, and filing his claim that he may participate with other
unsecured creditors in the general distribution of the estate.
The law looks to a prompt, equal and inexpensive distribution of the estate among those entitled thereto, and I do not
think it was intended to permit a creditor to take the chances
of litigation with the trustee,' and when defeated still have the
right to "surrender" his preference and participate in the
distribution of the general estate. I think the surrender contemplated by the law is not the capitulation which comes after
unsuccessful resistance, but is intended to require the creditor,
who must be presumed to know the law, to make a prompt
election and to stand or fall upon the choice made. In other
words, it was not intended to permit a creditor who holds
security liable to defeat under the law to keep it if he can maintain it by successful contest and, if not, to have the same right
and privilege as to proof of his debt that he would have if he
promptly availed himself of the privilege of surrender which
the law gives to one who would place himself upon a general
equality with other creditors of the estate.

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

DAY, HARLAN, BREWER

โข 379

and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

These conclusions are sustained by a consideration of the
terms of the law under discussion, as well as the adjudicated
cases which have arisen under it. The act of 1898 made important changes when compared with the bankrupt law of
1867. As we have already seen, section 23 of the latter act
limited the requirement as to the surrender of preferences to
those made or given contrary to the provisions of the act.
Section 35 of the same law gave the right to the assignee in
bankruptcy to set aside illegal preferences, and section 39,
after enumerating certain transactions which should amount
to acts of bankruptcy, including fraudulent conveyances as
therein described, provided that whenever the beneficiary had
reasonable cause to believe that a fraud upon the act was intended, or the debtor was insolvent, the assignee might recover
the property, and the creditor should not be allowed to prove
his debt in bankruptcy. In 1874, 18 Stat. 178, section 39 of
the act was amended, and, instead of .prohibiting a creditor
who had received a conveyance in fraud of the act from proving his debt, it was provided that such creditor should not, in
case of actual fraud on his part, be allowed to prove for more
than a moiety of his debt, and this limitation should apply to
cases of voluntary as well as involuntary bankruptcy.
It will not, in my view, aid in the determination of the
proper construction of the act of 1898 to review the numerous
and conflicting decisions made under the act of 1867 as to the
effect of these various provisions upon the right of the creditor
to prove his claim. The great weight of authority is that one
who had a voidable preference under the act could not be permitted to prove his claim after a judgment had been rendered
against him in a contest with the trustee.
Presumably with the provisions of the act of 1867 before it,
providing that in certain cases of fraudulent conveyance the
creditor could not prove his claim in bankruptcy, first as to
the whole, and later as to a half of the debt, and the limitations
of the requirenrent to surrender preferences to those made in
violation of the act, Congress laid aside these requirements,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
DAY, HARLAN, BREWER

and

BROWN,

JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

and broadly provided in section 57g of the act of 1898 that all
preferences must be surrendered as a condition of proof of
claims against'the estate. The innocent holder of a preference
could not be deprived of his right of election between proof of
his debt and the surrender of his preference. He who had a
voidable preference might surrender it and prove his debt.
If he did not "surrender," the trustee could recover the preference, and the privilege of proof which was conditioned upon
surrender no longer existed.
Prior to the amendment of 1903 this court, in the case of
Pirie v. Trust Company, already referred to, decided that the
requirement extended to all manner of preferences, whether
innocently received or otherwise, and this was the law until
the amendment of 1903.
Therefore the sole question here is: What is meant by the
term "surrender" as used in the act of 1898?
We have been referred to four cases deCided under this law
before the passage of the amendment of 1903. Before passing
to them I may refer to a decision of Judge Dillon at the circuit,
In re Richter, 1 Dill. 544, rendered in 1870 under the act of
1867, but in defining the word "surrender" and pointing out
its meaning, the language of the learned judge is as pertinent
now a s it was then. Having before him the construction of
the term "surrender" as used in section 23 of the act of 1867,
and speaking of the right of a creditor to prove the balance
of a claim which had been illegally preferred, the judge said:
"The statute is that they shall not prove up the debt or
claim on account of which the preference was given. It was
this precisely wnich, by the motion under consideration, they
sought to have done, and which the court refused to. allow.
"It is urged by the claimants that this refusal was erroneous
because they had, before the time when they made their motion, surrendered to the assignee all property received by them
under the preference. This devolves upon us the duty of
interpreting the meaning of the word surrender, as it is here
used. And it is our opinion that a creditor, who receives

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

DAY,

HARLAN, BREWER

and

BROWN,

JJ., dissenting.

goods by way of fraudulent preference, and who refuses the
demand therefor which the assignee is authorized to make
(section 15), denies his liability, allows suit to be commenced
by the assignee, defends it, goes to trial, is defeated and judgment passes against him, which he satisfies on execution,
cannot be said within the meaning of the statute, to have
surrendered to the assignee the property received by him
under such preference.
"He has surrendered nothing. He accepted a fraudulent
preference and defended it to the last. Paying a judgment
which he stoutly resisted, and from which he could not escape,
is not such a surrender as the statute contemplates. To hold

that it was would be against the spirit of the statute, which
is to discourage preferences. Such a holding would manifestly
encourage them, for if the transaction should be upheld the
creditor would profit) if overthrown, he would lose nothing,
and stand upon an equal footing with those over whom he had
attempted to secure an illegal advantage, and whom lie has,
by litigation, delayed in the collection of their claims."
The question, under the act of 1898, came before the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Iowa, in the
case of In re Keller, 109 Fed. Rep. 118; 6 Am. B. R. 334, where
the subject is discussed by Judge Shiras. Summing up the
matter, the learned judge said:
"It would certainly be wholly inequitable to hold that a
creditor who has received a preference from an insolvent debtor
can refuse to account therefor, and after causing. the other
creditors the delay, cost, and expense of litigation, after being
defeated therein, can still prove up his claim, and take an equal
share in the proceeds of the estate after depleting the same
in the manner stated. Contesting the claim of the trustee, and
paying back the preference in obedience to the process of the
court, is not a surrender, within the meaning of clause 'g' of
section 57. Therefore there is this difference between a preferred creditor who surrenders the preference and a preferred
creditor from whom the preference is recovered by the trustee:

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
DAY, HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

The former, having voluntarily surrendered the preference
received, is entitled to prove up his entire claim, and share with
the other creditors. The latter, having refused to surrender,
cannot prove the claim or share in the estate."
To the same effect is In re Owings, 109 Fed. Rep. 623, and
in In re Greth, 112 Fed. Rep. 978; 7 Am. B. R. 598, the cases
are reviewed and the same conclusion reached,
In Collier on Bankruptcy, third edition, section 319, that
author says:
"The question what constitutes a surrender has received
much discussion. It is admitted by all that if the assignee is
compelled to bring an action to invalidate a transfer, and if he
recovers and enters up a judgment, no subsequent payment
of that judgment by the preferred creditor and no subsequent
compliance by him with its terms can be considered a surrender. By his judgment the trustee has 'recovered' the
property. in legal effect the transferee no longer has anything to surrender."
And in the fifth edition of the same work, p. 420, it is said:
"What is a surrender.-Here the doctrines declared under
the law of 1867 seem at least somewhat applicable. The
phrasing of that statute undoubtedly colored some of the
decisions under it. But, under well-recognized principles of
law, a surrender that is compulsory is not a surrender. The
element of fraud is usually present, but may be lacking; the
test is: was the act a voluntary one? Each case turns on its
own facts and there is some conflict, but the weight of decision
under the present law supports this view."
The only case, decided under the act of 1898, which has
come to my attention sustaining a contrary view is In re
Richard, 94 Fed. Rep. 633; 2 Am. B. R. 506, in, which it was
decided that, notwithstanding the preference was set aside,
after a fruitless fight with the trustee, the creditor might prove
his claim.
We are cited to Streeter v. Jefferson County Bank, 147 U. S.
36, as sustaining the contrary view of the meaning of the term

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

DAY, HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

"surrender" as used in this act. The case was under the act
of 1867. But in that case the contest was over a stock of
goods, and the creditor, the bank, had consented through its
attorneys to the appointment of a special receiver, who was
ordered to sell the goods and pay the proceeds into court. Of
this feature of the case Mr. Justice Shiras, who delivered the
opinion of the court, said (p. 45):
"To sustain the contention that the bank did not surrender
its preference, it is urged that the bank did not at once, on
demand of the assignee, turn over the goods levied on, but
litigated the matter with the assignee in both the District and
the Circuit Courts, and that the proceeds of the executions
were not relinquished until final judgment was entered against
the bank.
"It was the opinion of the state court that, as the sheriff,
having custody of the goods seized on execution was, with the
consent of the bank's attorneys, appointed special receiver,
and was ordered to sell the goods and pay the proceeds into
court, to await the result of the litigation between the bank
and the assignee in bankruptcy, and that as the proceeds were
finally turned over to the assignee, and thus became subject
to distribution as bankruptcy assets, the transaction amounted
to a surrender under section 5084. In so holding we think the
state court was right."
We are also cited to the meaning of the word "surrender"
as given in the Standard Dictionary:
"1. To yield possession of to another upon compulsion or
demand, or under pressure of a superior force; give up, especially to an enemy in warfare; as to surrender an army or a
fort."
This definition is given in support of the contention that a
surrender may sometimes be made involuntarily. This is
doubtless true, and obviously the term may have different
meanings when used in different connections. It may be that
an army may surrender a fort after a most vigorous contest,
while there is still the choice between further resistance and

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
DAY, HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

yielding the fortress to an enemy, but the most liberal meaning of the term could hardly describe as a surrender the occupation which a victorious army has gained of a fort after it
has ejected the enemy from its walls and is securely intrenched
therein without leave of those who have been forcibly driven
out.
The bankrupt law contemplates that a secured creditor,
who holds a security voidable under the law and which he
should put into the common fund as a condition of the right
to participate with other unsecured creditors in the division
of the estate, must make his choice while he has yet something
to give for the privilege of being taken from the class of those
who have a security which may be taken from them, and placed
in a class, always favored in the bankrupt law, who shall share
in the equal distribution of the bankrupt's estate, freed from
fraudulent conveyances and voidable preferences.
The complete answer to the argument that one who has
received a preference which he must give up before proof as
a general creditor has the right to try out with the trustee the
question of the validity of the preference and then surrender,
is that when the judgment of the law has taken the preference
from him he has nothing left to surrender, and if then so disposed the creditor cannot surrender a thing which has been
wrested from him by the strong hand of the law.
In this case the Ohio statutes, when read with the bankrupt
law, distinctly avoid preferences, and the trustee, by bringing
the action, diminished the estate and delayed its distribution.
The creditor, before the litigation, had his election as to the
course he would pursue. While he had something to surrender he might give it up, prevent costs, delay and litigation,
and aid the speedy and equal distribution of the bankrupt's
estate. After two judgments against him, and when he had
absolutely nothing to give up to the bankrupt's estate, it is,
in our view, too late to "surrender."
I think the construction here given comports with the purposes and carries into effect the design of the act as expressed

KEPPEL v. TIFFIN SAVINGS BANK.
197 U. S.

DAY, HARLAN, BREWER and BROWN, JJ., dissenting.

by its terms. It is true that in the present case, after resisting the attack upon the $2,000 mortgage in the Court of
Common Pleas, and when the judgment had gone against
the bank it did not appeal, and its counsel in the Circuit Court
disclaimed intention to insist upon the preference of the $2,000
mortgage, but even then refused consent to a decree against
the mortgage, and in our opinion the time of election was
before judgment in the court of original jurisdiction wherein
the mortgage was contested and defeated. It is unnecessary
to consider whether an election to surrender the preference
can be made after issued joined and before judgment. In
this case a trial was had upon the merits. The judgment
rendered was vacated by the appeal and in the appellate court,
notwithstanding the qualified disclaimer of counsel for the
bank, a final judgment was rendered against the mortgage.
These considerations lead to the conclusion that the first
and second questions should be answered in the negative.
The importance of the ruling just made is shown in its
application not only to the act of 1898 as it originally stood,
but to the act as it now stands since the amendment of February 5, 1903, which only requires a surrender of preferences
when the same are in violation of subdivision b of section 60,
or void or voidable under ยง 67, subdivision e. The reasoning
of the majority of the court permits the holder of a preference,
no matter how fraudulent, to contest with the trustee when
his preference is attacked, and when convicted of fraud and
an intention to defeat the purposes of the law to "surrender"
that which the law has declared he cannot hold, and prove his
debt as a general creditor. To permit this seems to me to
defeat the purpose of the act and to encourage the very thing
the surrender clause was intended to promote-a prompt and
inexpensive distribution of the estate. The fraudulent transferee, although he has lost his suit, has taken no risk, and may
still prove his claim on an equality with unpreferred creditors
over whom he has sought an illegal advantage,. I cannot agree
VOL. ccvni-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

with this construction, and therefore dissent from the judgment and reasoning of the majority of the court.
I am permitted to state that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR.
JUSTICE BREWER, and MR. JUSTICE BROWN concur in this
dissent.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 184. Argued March 15, 1905-Decided April, 3,1905.
The word "arrest" as employed in Article 43 of ยง 1624, Rev. Stat., requiring
service of the charge on which the accused is to be tried by court martial,
does not relate to the preliminary arrest or detention of an accused
person awaiting the action of higher authority to frame charges and
specifications and order a court-martial, but to the arrest resulting from
preferring the charges by the proper authority, and the convening of a

court-martial.
The provision in Article 38 of ยง 1624, Rev. Stat., that no commander of a
fleet or squadron shall convene a general court-martial without express
authority from the President was enacted in 1862 and will be construed

as intending to apply to waters within the continental limits of the United
States, and not to waters in the territory beyond the seas acquired since
the passage of that act, and the acquisition whereof was not contemplated at that time.

May 26, 1899, John Smith was serving under enlistment
as a fireman of the fii'st class on board the United States naval
vessel Yorktown, then at anchor in Iloilo harbor, Philippine
Islands. On the date named Smith was reported to the commanding officer of the Yorktown as having refused to do duty,
and consequently such officer ordered him "put under sentries
as a prisoner in single irons for safekeeping to await trial by a
general court-martial." Subsequently, on June 30. 1899,
Rear Admiral Watson, the Commander in Chief of the United
ON

