GREGG v. METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S.

183

Argument for Petitioner.

GREGG v. METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 141. Argued January 20, 23, 1905.-Decided March 6,1905.

Claims for supplies furnished to a railroad company within six months
before the appointment of a receiver are not entitled under any general
rule to precedence over a lien expressly created by a mortgage recorded
before the contracts for such supplies were made.
Under the orders authorizing receiver's certificates involved in this case
one furnishing ties within six months prior to the appointment of the
receiver, and some of which were not used until after such appointment,
held not entitled to payment therefor out of the proceeds of the certificates.

THE tacts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harlan Cleveland for petitioner:
"The diversion of current earnings for the benefit of the first
mortgage bondholders was not a condition precedent to the
payment of Gregg as a supply claimant out of the proceeds
of the sale of the mortgaged property. Central Trust Co. v.
East Tenn., V. & G. R. Co., 80 Fed. Rep. 624; Miltenberger
v. Railway Co., 106 U. S. 286, 311; Burnham v. Bowen, 111
U. S. 776, 781; Kneeland v. Trust Co., 136 U. S. 89, 97;
Thomas v. Car Co., 149 U. S. 94, 117, see contra, however,
International Trust Co. v. Townsend Brick Co., 95 Fed. Rep.
850, 860; and see also Rhode Island Locomotive Works v.
Trust Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 5; New England R. R. Co. v. Carnegie Steel Co., 75 Fed. Rep. 54; Wood v. N. Y. & New
Eng. R. R. Co., 70 Fed. Rep. 741; Finance Co. v. Charleston
&c. R. R. Co., 62 Fed. Rep. 205; St. Louis Trust Co. v. Riley,
70 Fed. Rep. 32; Central Trust Co. v. Clark, 81 Fed. Rep.
269; N. Y. Guaranty I. Co. v. Tacoma Ry. Co., 83 Fed. Rep.
365; Trust Co. v. Illinois Midland Co., 117 U. S. 434; V. &
A. Coal Co. v. Cent. Railroad Co., 170 U. S. 355, 365.

OGVOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Petitioner.

197 U. S.

This court has never refused to pay supply claimants out
of the corpus, on the ground that there has been no diversion of earnings; and has never formulated any such doctrine; nor have its decisions been construed as formulatitg
any such doctrine except by the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit. Four other courts of equal jurisdiction
have interpreted its decisions as being quite the contrary. The only cases in this court in which a charge against the.
corpus of the property has been denied are the following:,
Fosdick v. S~hall, 99 U. S. 235; Huidekoper v. Locomotive
Works; 99 U. S. 258; Penn v. Calhoun, 121 U.. S. 251 ; St. Louis
&c. R. R. v. Cleeland &c. R. R., 125 U. S. 658; Kneelarid v.
Amer. Loan Co., 136 U. S.89; Morganis Co. v. Texas Central
Ry., 137 U. S. 171; Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v. WilsoA, 138
U. S.501; Thomas v. Western Car Co., 149 U. S. 95. In none
of these cases were claims for supplies furnished or labor
rendered to a railroad company necessary to maintain the
raih'oad from day to (lay as a going concern.
All the six months' claimants are entitled to the same treatment, especially in this case. The order is broad enough to
cover this claim. Cases cited supra.
The suggestion that the petitioner had a claim against
another fund, namely, the surplus earnings of the receivership, is without weight.
There is a tpecial equity in the claim for ties delivered before
the receivership and used by the receiver.
The purchase of these ties by-the company when it was, as
it knew, hopelessly insolvent and had no reasonable expectation of paying therefor, and after it had defaulted on the
interest due upon its bonds, was a fraudulent purchase which
would have entitled petitioner, had the ties not been in the
possession of the court, to have retaken them, and which would
have entitled and justified the court to order their redelivery
to him, or in default thereof, payment therefor. Donaldson,
Assignee, v. Farwell, 93 U. S, 631; Vimot v. Lyon, 49 Ohio
St. 296; Talcot' v. Henderson, 31 Ohio St.. 162; Morrow v. New

GREGG v. METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S.

185

Argument for Respondents.

England Stove Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 693; Davis v. Stewart, 8 Fed.
Rep. 803; Jaffray v. Brown, 29 Fed. Rep. 476.
This court has recognized special equities entirely apart
from any question of diversion. St. L. &c. R. R. v. Cleveland,
&c. Ry., 125 U. S. 658, 673; Union Trust Co. v. Souther,, 107
U. S. 598; Morgan's Co. v. Tex. Cent. R. Co., 137 U. S. 171,197.
Mr. Herbert Parsons and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., for
respondents:
Petitioner's claim is not against the corpus but the receiver's
earnings. V. & A. Coal Co. v. Cent. R. R. &c, Co., 170 U. S.
355, 365. This is not a labor claim. It could only be paid
out of the corpus if it were a claini paid because of diversion
or earnings to the bondholdeis, or because it was necessary
to pay it in order to keep the road a going concern. It does
not fall within either class. As to the position of different
Circuit Courts of Appeals on this question see cases in Federal
Reporter cited on petitioner's brief, and Cutting v. T., 0. & A.
Ry. Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 150, 156; Niles Tool Works v. Louisville
&c. Ry. Co., 112 Fed. Rep. 561; Illinois Trust Co. v. Dowd,
105 Fed. Rep. 123; Kansas L. & T. Co. v. Electric L. & P.
Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 702.
While this court sometimes may have permitted the payment of a current claim out of the proceeds of sale without
proof of diversion, those were exceptional instances. The
claim of the petitioners is not such an one. There is no reason
why this court should overrule the discretion of the court
below in omitting to give a preference to this claim. Cases
cited on petitioner's brief can be distinguished.
In order to entitle his claim to payment, the petitioner must
prove that current earnings were diverted for the benefit of
the mortgage creditors and that there has been no restoration
of the diverted fund. See the cases cited. on petitioner's brief.
There is" no special equity in the $3,200 claim for ties used
by the receiver except as a claim against the receiver but not
under the orders authorizing certificates.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

197 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition against a receiver appointed in proceedings for the foreclosure of two railroad mortgages. The petitioner, in pursuance of a contract made on December 1, 1896,
with the Columbus, Sandusky and Hocking Railroad Company, the mortgagor, delivered railroad ties to the value of
$4,709.53 in May and on June 1, 2 and 3, 1897. The receiver
was appointed on June 1, 1897. After his appointment there
was found on hand a part of the above ties, to the value of
$3,200, and these ties were used in the maintenance of the
railroad as a going concern. The petitioner makes a claim on
the body of the fund in the receiver's hands, for these and
other necessary supplies furnished within six months, amounting 'in all to $6,804.49. The claim for the ties, at least, is
admitted to have been "a necessary operating expense in
keeping and using said railroad and preserving said property
in a fit and safe condition as such." The petitioner waives a
special claim against the receiver for $863.39 for the ties received June 2 and 3, but does claim a lien for $3,200 for ties
on hand and not returned to him after the receiver's appointment, in case his whole claim is not allowed. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed a decree of the Circuit Court establishing this claim as a six months' claim, but denying the
right to go against the body of the fund, whereupon a certiorari was allowed by this court. 109 Fed. Rep. 220. 124
Fed. Rep. 721.
The case stands as one in which there has been no diversion
of income by which the mortgagees have profite(d, or otherwise, and the meain question is the general one, whether in such
a case a claim for neessary supl)lies furnished within six
months before the receiver was app ointe(l, slioulh be charged
on the corps1s of the funl.
There are no special circumilstances affcting the claii as a whole. and if it is charged on
the corpa, it cal be only by laying dowmN a general rule that
such ciaiiis for sIlupplies are ('mt itld to )recedence over a lieu

GREGG v. METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S.

187

Opinion of the Court.

expressly created by a mortgage recorded before the contracts
for supplies were made. An impression that such a general
rule was to be deduced from the decisions of this court led to
an evidently unwilling application of it in New England R.
Co. v. Carnegie Steel Co., 75 Fed. Rep. 54, 58, and perhaps in
other cases. But we are of opinion, for reasons that need no
further' statement, Kneeland v. American Loan & Trust Co.,
136 U. S. 89, 97, that the general rule is the other way, and
has been recognized as being the other way by this court.
The case principally relied on for giving priority to the
claim for supplies is Miltenberger v. Logansport &c. Railway
Co., 106 U. S. 286. But while the payment of some preexisting claims was sanctioned in that case, it was expressly
stated that "the payment of such debts stands, prima facie,
on a different basis from the payment of claims arising under
the receivership." The ground of such allowance as was made
was not merely that the supplies were necessary for the preservation of the road, but that the payment was necessary to
the business of the road-a very different proposition. In
the later cases the wholly exceptional character of the allowance is observed and marked. Kneeland v. American Loan
& Trust Co., 136 U. S. 89, 97, 98. Thomas v. Western Car Co.,
149 U. S. 95, 110, ll; Virginia & Alabama Coal Co. v. Central
Railroad & Banking Co., 170 U. S. 355, 370. In Union Trust
Co. v. Illinois Midland Ry., 117 U. S. 434, 465, labor claims
accruing within six months before the appointment of the
receiver were allowed without special discussion, but the principles laid down in the Miltenberger case had been repeated
in the judgment of the court, and the allowance was said to be
in accordance with them. It would seem from St. Louis,
Alton &c. R. R. v. Cleveland, Columbus &c. Ry., 125 U. S.
658, 673, 674, that in both those cases there was a diversion of
earnings. But the payment of the employ6s of the road is
more certain to be necessary in order to keep it running than
the payment of any other class of previously incurred debts.
Cases like Union Trust Co. v. Souther, 107 U. S. 591, where

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

the order appointing the receiver authorized him to pay debts
for labor or supplies furnished within six months out of income,
stand on the special theory which has been developed with
regard to income, and afford no authority for a charge on the
body of the fund. Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235; Burnham
v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776; Morgan's Louisiana & Texas Railroad & Steamship Co. v. Texas Central Ry., 137 U. S. 171;
Virginia & Alabama Coal Co. v. Central Railroad & Banking
Co., 170 U. S. 355; Southern Ry. Co. v. Carnegie Steel Co., 176
U. S. 257. It is agreed that the petitioner may have a claim
against surplus earnings, if any, in the hands of the receiver,
but that question is not before us here.
The order appointing the receiver did not go beyond the
distinction which we have mentioned, and gave the petitioner
no new or higher right than he had before. After directing
him to do certain things, it gave him authority, but did not
direct him, to make various payments. It gave him authority, among other things, "to pay the employ6s, officials and
other persons having claims for wages, services, materials and
supplies due and to become due and unpaid growing out of
the operation of the railroad of the defendant, including current and unpaid vouchers; to settle accounts incurred, in the
operation of the railroad of the defendant company; to pay
any and all obligations accrued or accruing upon any equipment trust made by the defendant railroad company; and for
such purpose, as well as for the purpose of meeting the obligations of the pay rolls," he was authorized, "in his discretion,
to borrow such sums of money as may be necessary for such
purpose, not exceeding thirty-five thousand 'dollars. But said
receiver will pay no claims against the said railway company

which have accrued due more than six months prior to the
date of this order." It is questionable whether the purposes
for which the $35,000 might be borrowed were other than
paying equipment trust debts and pay rolls. But even if any
words in the order authorized a charge on the corpus in order
to pay claims like that of the petitioner, or a payment of them

GREGG v. METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S.

189

Opinion of the Court.

except from income, certainly there are none requiring it or
going beyond giving authority to the receiver, if, for instance,
he thought payments of previous debts necessary to the continued operation of the road. A strict construction of the
decree is warranted by the previous decision of the same Circuit Court of Appeals in International Trust Co. v. T. B. Townsend Brick & Contracting Co., 95 Fed. Rep. 850.
A few days later, on June 7, 1897, the receiver applied
for
and received leave to issue certificates up to $200,000, "for
the purpose of paying car trusts, maturing and matured, pay
rolls, interest on terminal property, traffic balances, taxes and
sundry other obligations created in and about the maintenance
and operation of said railroad within six months next preceding and following the appointment of a receiver herein." By
a further decree on July 7, $30,000 of these certificates were
apllied to payment for land bought by the; company, $135,000
to car trust obligations, current pay rolls, necessary repairs
and expenses of operating the road, and $35,000 to the pay
rolls for the previous April and May. The petitioner suggested that the latter decree was a diversion of funds in
which, by the terms of the order authorizing the certificates,
he was entitled to share, and that the payment of the $35,000
for the April and May labor entitles him to come in on principles of equality. It is not necessary to answer this contention
at length. The original order gave the petitioner no such
rights as he asserts. It would have been a stretch of authority
for the receiver in his discretion to apply the borrowed money
to this debt. At least he was not bound to do so. The petition on which the original order was made stated that the
money was wanted to pay certain obligations, "or so much
thereof as may be necessary," embodying the distinction which
we have drawn from the cases. We already have intimated
that the payment of railroad hands might stand on stronger
grounds than the payment for past supplies-and if the payment was wrong it would not be righted by making another,
less obviously within the scope of the decree,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
MCKENNA, HARLAN and WHITE, JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

We are of opinion, finally, that there is no special equity
with regard to the $3,200 worth of ties on hand and used by
the receiver after his appointment. It is said that the purchase by the railroad company after it had defaulted, as it
had, in the interest of its bonds, was fraudulent, and that the
petitioner would have been entitled to take back the ties but
for the appointment of the receiver. The answers to this
contention again are numerous. It does not appear that the
purchase of the ties was fraudulent. Donaldson v. Farwell,
93 U. S. 631. It does not appear, and is not likely that the
company bought with the intention not to pay the price.
It does not appear that it concealed its insolvency. The default in the interest of the bonds was a public fact. Again, it
is a mere speculation whether the petitioner, if he had had
the right, would have demanded back the ties. He did not
demand them of the receiver. It is quite as likely that if he
had known the whole truth he would have- taken his chances.
The thing that he is least likely to have known is the form of
the appointment of the receiver, and, therefore, it is probably
a fiction that that encouraged him to wait. It should not
have encouraged him, because, as we have said', it gave him
no rights. The fact that the receiver used the tics is of no
importance. They already were the property of the road,
and it was his business to use them. The material point is
not the time when they were used, but the time when they
were acquired.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE- McKENNA, with whom concur MR.
HARLAN and MR.JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.

JUSTICE

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court, and the
importance of the questions involved justifies an expression
of the ground of my dissent.
The controversy arises from a claim, to qiiote from the
Circuit Court of Appeals, "for cross ties essential to the replacement of ties decayed in current operation of the rail-

GREGG v. METOPOi[TAN TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S.

MCKENNA, HARLAN

191

and WniPF,, JJ., dissenting.

road. A large proportion were on hand when the receiver
was appointed, and were used by him in the maintenance of
the roadway. They were all purchased within six months
before the receivership, and under circumstances indicating
an expectation that they would be paid for out, of current
income. The claim is in every respect a highly meritorious
one."

This description is supplemented by stipulation of counsel
that the claim is for "necessary operating expenses in keeping
and using said railroad and preserving said property in a fit
and safe condition." , The claim is denied, affirming the judgment of the lower court, payment out of the body of the fund
in the hafids of the receiver; and why? That the decisions of
this court may be construed as extending the equity of claims
for supplies so far is conceded. It is said: "An impression
that such a general rule was to be deduced from the decisions
of this court led to an evidently unwilling application of it
in New England R. R. Co. v. Carnegie Steel Co., 75 Fed. Rep.
54, 58, and perhaps in other eases."
The concession har(lly exhibits the strength of the sanction
which the rule has received at circuit, an, apparently, neither
willingly nor unwillingly, but in the desire only to ascertain
what this court has deci(led and to follow it. "I may refer to
St. Louis Trust Co. v. Riley, decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Eighth Circuit, 16 C. C. A. 610; Finance Company v. Charleston &c. R. Co., in Circuit Court of Appeals of
the Fourth Circuit, 10 C. C. A. 323; New York Guaranty &
Indemnity Co. v. Tacoma Railway & Al. Co., in the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, 83 Fed. Rep. 365.
See also Thomas v. Peoria &c. Ry., 36 Fed. Rep. 808; Farmer;'
Loan & Trust Co. v. Kansas &c. Railroad Co., 53 Fed. Rep.
182; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co.,
68 Fed. Rep. 36; Atlantic Trust Co. v. Woodbridge Canal &
Irrigation Co., 79 Fed. Rep. 39. And even the Sixth Circuit,
from whence the )ending case now comes. Central Trust
Company v. East Tennessee, V. & G.R. Co., 80 Fed. Rep. 624.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
McKENNA, HARLAN and WHITE, JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

There is strength in this agreement at circuit, and much
that was said could be quoted with advantage, but, as my
ultimate reliance must be the decisions of this court, I shall
proceed immediately to an examination of them.
Miltenberger v. Logansport &c. Railway. Co., 106 U. S. 286,
is one of the most important of the cases. Indeed it is the
leading case, and is carried into and approved in a number of
subsequent cases. The decisions which precede it, including
Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235, I assume, are understood.
Wallace v. Loomis, 97 U. S. 146, may, however, be noticed.
It was a suit to foreclose a mortgage on a railroad, in which
suit a receiver was appointed. The receivers were authorized
to raise money by loan upon certificates to be issued by them,
"'to put the road and property in repair, and to complete any
uncompleted portions thereof, and to procure rolling stock,
and to manage and operate the road to the best advantage, so
as to prevent the property from further deteriorating, and to
save and preserve the same for the benefit and interest of the
first mortgage bondholders, and all others having an interest
therein." The receivers obeyed the order, and the decree of
the court "declared the amount due on the receiver's certificates to be a lien on the property in their hands prior to that.,
of the first mortgage bonds." This court sustained the decree
as follows:
"The power of a court of equity to appoint managing receivers of such property as a railroad, when taken under its
charge as a trust fund for the payment of encumbrances, and
to authorize such receivers to raise money necessary for the
preservation and management of the property, and make the
same chargeable as a lien thereon for its repayment, cannot,
at this day, be seriously disputed. It is a part of that jurisdiction, always exercised by the court, by which it is its duty
to protect and preaerve the trust funds in its hands. It is,
undoubtedly, a power to be exercised with great caution; and
if possible, with the consent or acquiescence of the parties
interested in the fund."

GREGG v. METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S.

193

McKENNA, HARLAN and WHITE, JJ., dissenting.

The principle expressed was applied in the Miltenberger
case. The receiver appointed in that case was empowered
by the court to purchase four engines, four passenger cars,
and one hundred new coal cars; also to adjust certain indebtedness of connecting lines, not exceeding $10,000, and to
expend $30,000 to complete five miles of road and build a
bridge, and to enter into the contracts required therefor. With
the expenditure, the earnings of the road were charged "as
with a first lien prior to all encumbrances upon said road."
The legality of this was contested. Speaking of the order
this court said: The authority conferred by it "was intended
to benefit the res in the hands of the court, which was the
entire mortgaged property, as covered by both mortgages,
and not merely the equity of redemption of the mortgagor as
against the second mortgagee." And the power to make it
was decided, the court quoting from Wallace v. Loomis as
above, and observing "the principle thus recognized covers
most of the-objections here urged." The payment of $10,000
due to connecting lines of road for materials and repairs, etc.,
was also sustained. It thus appears that not only expenditures made after the appointment of the receiver, but debts
incurred prior to the appointment, were directed to be paid
out of the corpus of the property. Justifying its decision, the
court said:
",It cannot be affirmed that no items which accrued before
the appointment of a receiver can'be allowed in any case.
Many circumstances may exist which may make it necessary
and indispensable to the business of the road and the preservation
of the property, for the receiver to-pay preexisting debts of certain
classes, out of the earnings of the receivership, or even the corpus
of the property, under the order of the court, with a priority of
lien. Yet the discretion to do so should be exercised with very
great care. The payment of such debts stands, prima facie, on
a different basis from the payment of claims arising under the
receivership, while it may be brought within the principle of the
latter by special circumstances, It is easy to oee that the payVOL. OXCVII-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
MCKENNA, HARLAN and

WHITE,

JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

ment of unpaid debts for operating expenses, accrued within
ninety days, due by a railroad company suddenly deprived
of the control of its property, due to operatives in its employ,
whose cessation from work simultaneously is to be deprecated, in the interests both of the property and of the public,
and the payment of the limited amounts due to other and
connecting lines of road for materials and repairs and for unpaid ticket and freight balances, the outcome of indispensable
business relations, where a stoppage of the continuance of
such business relations would be a probable result, in case of
non-payment, the general consequence involving largely, also,
the interests and accommodation of travel and traffic, may
well place such payments in the, category of payments to
preserve the mortgaged property in a large sense, by maintaining the good-will and integrity of the enterprise, and
entitle them to be made a first lien. This view of the public
interest in such a highway for public use as a railroad is, as
bearing on the maintenance and use of its franchises and
property in the hands of a receiver, with a view to public
convenience, was the subject of approval by this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Woods, in Barton v. Barbour, 104
U. S. 126. The appellants furnish no basis for questioning
any specific amounts allowed in respect to the arrears referred
to, but object to the allowance of anything out of the sale of
the corpus for such expenditures. Under all the circumstances of this case, we see no valid objection to the provisions of the orders complained of."
The case is not overruled; it is distinguished, and the distinction seems to be based upon the difference between supplies for preservation of the road and payments necessary to
the business of the road. Is not the distinction questionable?
Can anything be (lone for the preservation of a road that is not
done for its businegs? If a distinction can be made, how
immediate to the business must the supplies be? Is not a
bridge across a stream as indispensable to the "accommodation of travel and traffic" as "unpaid ticket and freight bal-

GREGG v. METROPOLITAN TRUST COMPANY.
197 U. S..

iL35

MCKENNA, HARLAN and WHITE, JJ., dissenting.

ances?" Or (as in the case at bar) is not "the replacement
of ties decayed in current operation" as indispensable as the
payment of laborers? It is conceded that labor claims were
decreed to be paid in Union Trust Co. v. Illinois Midland Ry.,
117 U. S. 434, Then why not the other? What distinction
in principle can there be in expenditures for any of the many
things which are necessary to keep a railroad a going concern?
Let all expenditures be declared subordinate which are subsequent to the mortgage, and it can be understood. But how
can a distinction be made. in value and preferential payment
between equally indispensable things?
It is said, however, that the later cases have observed and
marked "the wholly exceptional character of the allowance"
made in the Miltenberger case. The Kneeland case, 136 U. S.
89; Thomas case, 149 U. S. 95, and Virginia & Alabama Coal
Co. v. Central Railroad & Banking Co., 170 U. S. 355, are cited.
Two deductions may be made. If it is meant that the instances were exceptional, I am not at present concerned with
it. If it is meant that the principle was, I cannot assent.
Admonition to care in the application of a principle is one
thing, its overthrow another; and the principle of the Miltenberger case has never been overthrown. Virginia & Alabama
Coal Co. v. Central Railroad & Banking Co. explains the other
two cases. It involved the payment for coal supplied before
the appointment of a receiver. There was surplus income
during the receivership, and the point under discussion in the
case at bar was not directly presented. But there were some
observations made which are of value. They remove diversion of income as an element of decision or confusion. It was
declared to be immaterial to the equity invoked for the claim
whether there had been diversion of income by the company
before the appointment of the receiver or afterwards by the
receiver, and it is only necessary to consider whether the
equity was confined to surplus earnings. I think that it was
not so confined. There were surplus earnings, and the principle which established an equity in them was alone contested

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
McKENNA, HARLAN and WHITE,

JJ., dissenting.

197 U. S.

and was alone necessary to be decided. The decision was
carefully made upon a review and an estimate of prior cases.
The admonitions of the Kneeland case and the Thomas case
were not overlooked. Regarding them, and in connection
with them, the Miltenberger case was quoted from, and not
only left undisturbed, but approved, and from it, as well .as
from other cases, was deduced the principle which was applied in the judgment. And that principle has its foundation
in the public interests. A railroad, from its nature and public
responsibilities, must be kept a going concern. This is the
supreme necessity, and affords the test of the equity invoked
for the claims for supplies. It cannot depend upon diversion
of income or upon the existence of income. It cannot be confined to debts contracted during the receivership. It may
extend to debts contracted before the appointment of the
receiver. But recogniztig that there must be some limitation
of time, the courts have fixed six months as the period within
which preferential claims may accrue. And there is no infringement of the rights of mortgagees. Their interests are
served, as those of the public are, by keeping the railroad in
operation. The limitations of the rule dependent upon the
conditions under which supplies are furnished are expressed
in Virginia & Alabama Coal Co. v. Central Railroad & Banking Co., supra, and in Southern Ry. Co. v. Carnegie Steel Co.,
176 U. S. 257.
The claim in controversy is manifestly within the rule. It
is, as we have seen, "for crops ties essential to the replacement
of ties decayed in current operation." In other words, used
in and necessary for the business of the road, and comes even
within the limitation which the court .implies finay be put on
the Miltenberger case. There is another consideration which
may be urged in addition to or independently of the general
rule. Ties of the value of $3,200 were used by the receiver
after his appointment. This circumstance is too summarily
dismissed from consideration. "The material point is," it is
said, "not the time when they were used, but the time when

CARO v. DAVIDSON.
197 V. S.

Syllabus.

they were acquired." A broad declaration, and seems to make
all claims accruing before the receivership non-preferential.
This probably is not intended, and not extending the remark
so far, is not the time of use important if we regard the substance of things? It must not be overlooked that we are
dealing with equitable considerations. What would be said
of an expenditure by the receiver for ties to displace decaying
ones if those furnished by petitioner had not been at hand?
Was it not, at least, competent for a court of equity to have
restored the ties upon the application of the petitioner? It
is said, however, "It is mere speculation if he would have
demanded back the ties." He was not given an opportunity.
But suppose "he would have taken his chance?" Of what
and upon what assurance? Certainly upon the assurance, in
addition to his general equity, that a court of equity would
not deliberately use his property through its officer, the receiver, in the interest of the business of the road, whose affairs
it was administering, and not find in its powers the means
and right to order payment for the property so used.

CARO v. DAVIDSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
No. 196.

COURT OF THE STATE

OF FLORIDA.

Submitted January 23, 1905.-Decided March 13,1905.

Where the record discloses no title, right, privilege or immunity, specially
set up or claimed under the Constitution, or any law of the United States,
which was denied by the decision, nor~any assertion of an infraction of
any provision of the Constitution, and the right of review by this court
is based on the contention that the validity under the Constitution of a
state statute is necessarily drawn in question and sustained, the writ
will be dismissed unless a definite issue as to the validity of such statute
is distinctly deducible from the record and it appears that the judgment
could not have rested on grounds not involving its validity.

