544

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

MUHLKER v. NEW YORK AND HARLEM RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO TH-E SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 99. Argued December 12, 13, 1905, Reargucd February 24, 27, 1905.-Decided April
10, 1905.

The permission or command of the State can give no power to invade
private property rights even for a public purpose without payment of

compensation.

An abutting owner cannot be deprived of his easements

of light and air above the surface of the street without compensation
because the structure interfering with those easements was formerly on
the surface and the raising of it to an elevated structure gave him an
increase in his easement of access.
The Elevated Railroad cases, decided by the Court of Appeals, established
the law of the State of New York to be that the easement of light and
air of abutting property owners in the streets of New York above the
street to be property and within the protection of the Constitution for
compensation in case of its dimiwition by an elevated railroad structure.
Such decisions assured to pur'chasers of property, abutting on streets the
beds whereof bad been deeded to the city of New York in trust for streets,
that their casements of light and air were secured by contract and could
not be t.aken from them without compensation; and the courts of that
State cannot change or modify their decisions so as to take away rights
which have been acquired by contract and are within the protection of
the Federal Constitution.
This court determines for itself whether there is an existing contract and
where /here is a diversity of state decisions the first in time may constitute the obligation of the contract and the metsure of rights under it.
The raising, in pursuance of a state statute requiring it, of the New York
and Htarlem Railro.,d structure, in Park avenue, New York City, which
was formerly on, or partially below, the surface of the street, to n elevated structure, deprived the abutting owner, who in this case had
purchased after the decisions by the Court of Appeals in the Elevated
Railroad cases, of property right in his easements of light and air and
under the Constitution of the United States he was entitled to compensation therefor and cannot be deprived of it, either because the structure
was erected under a state statute req,!iring it or because the access to
his property was increased by the raising of the structure.

PLAINTIFF Sues to enjoin the use of a certain elevated railroad structure on Park avenue, in the city of New York, in
front of his premises, unless upon payment of the fee value

31UIILKIIR -. II.lILEM RAILROAI) CO.
197 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of certain casements of light, air and access and other rights
appurtenant to his premiises. lie also prays. damages for
injury sustained from the year 1890 to time of trial.
From the evidence in the case the Supreme Court found that
the plaintiff had been since 1888 the owner of a lot of land on
the northwesterly corner of Park avenue and One Hundred

and Fifteenth street, on which he, in 1891, erected a fiye-story
brick building, and that there were appurtenant to said lot
and building "certain easements of light, air and access in and
over said Park avenue, in front of said premfises." The defendant, The New York and Harlem Railroad Company, is
and was during all the tuies mentioned herein the owner of
a railroad and railroad structures in Park avenue, in front of
such premises, and the New York Central and Hudson River
Railroad Company is the lessee of said railroad and structures
under a lease dated April 1, 1873, for a term of four hundred
and one years; that said railroad, prior to 1872, was operated
on two tracks laid upon the surface of said avenue and along
the center thereof, in front of said premises.
In pursuance of chapter 702 of the Laws of 1872 certain
changes were made in the railroad in front of said premises,
between the years 1872 and 1874, whereby the number of
tracks was increased from two to four and were laid along the
center of the avenue, and at the south line of said premises were
at the surface, and at the north line of said premises were laid
in a trench about five and a half feet below the surface. In front
of said premises the railroad was bounded on both sides by masonry walls about three feet high above the surface, and cut off
access across said avenue immediately in frorrt of said premises
.The New York Central and Hfidson River Railroad Company in 1872 operated its trains over the railroad in front of
said premises, and continued to do so until February 16, 1897.
The other facts are "expressed in the finding of the court
as follows:
"Fourth. That pursuant to chapter 339 of the Laws of
1892, there was constructed along Park avenue, in front of
VOL. OXCVII-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

plaintiff's said premises, between April, 1893, and March, 1896,
a new permanent elevated railroad structure of iron and steel;
that said railroad in front of plaintiff's said prcmise is about
59 feet wide and consists of four tracks laid on a solid roadbed,
having a mean elevation of about 31 feet above the surface
of said avenue, which roadbed is girded along the sides and in
the center by solid iron girders, each 7 feet and 4 inches high,
and is supported by iron columns, of which there are six directly in front of plaintiff's said premises; and that the work
of constructing said permanent elevated railroad structure
:was done under the supervision of a boarti created by said act.
"Fifth. That the defendant The New York Central and
Hudson River Railroad Company laid the tracks on said
permanent elevated railroad structure about March, 1896,
and from said date down to February 16, 1897, operated
thereon in front of said premises trains of cars drawn by
steam engines for the carriage of freight and material used in
the construction of said structure, for which service said defendant was paid; that said defendant on February 16, 1897,
began to operate regularly and permanently upon said permanent elevated railroad structure in front of plaintiff's said
premises its passenger trains, drawn by steam locomotives.
"Sixth. That the rental and fee values of the plaintiff's
said premises were damaged by the work of constructing said
permanent elevated railroad structure and by the existence
of the same from April, 1893, to March, 1896; also by said
structure and the operation -thereon of trains, as aforesaid,
from March, 1896, to February 16, 1899, but that neither of
said defendants is liable for such damage.
"Seventh. That said permanent structure and the operation by said defendant, The New York Central and Hudson,
iiver Railroad Company, of passenger trains theroon since
"February 16, 1897, are and have been a continuous trespass
upon the plaintiff's easements of light and air aIpurtenant to
his said premises, hereinbefore described as having a frontage
of 76 feet and 10 inches on said Park avenue and a depth of

MUHLKER v. HARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

26 feet on 115th street; that solely in consequence of said
trespass, and aside from any other causes, the rental and
usable value of said premises was depreciated from February 16,
1897, down to October 10, 1900, in the sum of fourteen hundred dollars ($1,400) below what said rental value would have
been during said period, if there had been, no change in defendant's said railroad in Park avenue in front of said premises
pursuant to chapter 339 .of the Laws of 1892; and that the fee
value of said premises has been, and was on October 10, 1900,
depreciated thereby in the sum of three thousand dollars
($3,000) below what said fee value would have been on said
date if there had been no change in 'defendant's railroad as
aforesaid.
"Eighth. That the said sums awarded as damages are over
and above any and all benefits conferred upon said premises
by the changes made, pursuant to chapter 339 of the Laws of
1892, which said benefits result in part from improved access
to said premises afforded by said changes, and are offset against
the damages to said premises caused by said changes.
"Ninth. That the said sums awarded as damages are exclusive of the damages that would have been occasioned to
plaintiff's premises by the maintenance and use of the defendant's railroad and structures had there been no change in the
same pursuant to chapter 339 of the Laws of 1892, for which
last-mentioned damages the defendants are not liable either
jointly or severally.
"Tenth. That this action was commenced by the plaintiff
on January 7, 1897, that the plaintiff on April 28, 1892, began
an action in this court against the defendant for an injunction
and damage by reason of the defendant's railroad structure
and the operation of trains thereon in front of the premises
described herein, as said railroad existed and was operated on
said date; and that said last-mentioned action was discontinued on February 27, 1900."
A decree was entered enjoining the use of the railroad
structure and its removal from in front of plaintiff's premises,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

197 U. S.

but it was provided that the injunction should not become
operative if the defendants tender for the purpose of execution
by the plaintiff "a form of conveyance and release" to them
of the easements of light, air and access appurtenant to said
)remises, and tender further of the sum of $3,000, with interest thereon from October 10, 1900. Damages were also
adjudged to plaintiff in the sum of $1,400, with interest from
February 16, 1897, and costs. Either party was given the
right to move at the foot of the- decree for further directions
as to the enforcement of the same.
In the form of the decision and judgment entered, and
as to the legal principles involved, the court professed to
follow Lewis v. New York & Harlem Railroad, 162 N. Y.
202.
The judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Division. It
was reversed by the Court of Appeals, 173 N. Y. 549; and the
judgment of that court, upon the remission of the case, was
made -the judgment of the Supreme Court and the complaint
dismissed without costs. The case was then brought here.
Mr. Elihu Root, with whom Mr. J. C. Bushby and Mr.
L. M. Berkeley were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff established three contracts within the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution. The grant from Benson
in 1825, the grant from Poillon in 1827, and the contract between Poillon's grantees, and being grants or conveyances of
land were executed contracts within the protection of the
clause of the Federal Constitution which provides that no
State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 136; Dartmouth College Case,
4 Wheat. 518, 656; McGee v. Mathis, 4 Wall. 143, 155; Farrington v. Tennessee, 95 U. S.679, 683. .
The obligations of these contracts preclude the erection
of an elevated railroad in Fourth avenue. This has been
declared to be the law of New York. Williams v. Brooklyn El. R. 'Co., 126 N..Y. 96, 100; Lahr v. Met. El. R.

MUHILKER v. HARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Co., 104 N. Y. 268, 288; Story v. N. Y. El. R. Co., 90 N. Y. 122.
This rule applies to the case at bar.
The decision of the trial court determined that the structure
was inconsistent with the public nature of the street. This
finding of fact was affirmed by the Appellate Division, and thus
became final; for the Court of Appeals has no power to review
facts. N. Y. Const., Art. 6, ยง 9; N. Y. Code Civ. Pro. ยง 191,
subd. 3. Whatever was a question of fact in the state court,
is a question of fact in this court. Building & Loan Assn. v.
Ebaugh, 185 U. S.114, 121. And this court will not re~xamine
the evidence, but will take the facts as found in the court
below. Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Call
Pub. Co., 181 U. S. 92, 103; Bement v. Nat. Harrow Co., 186
U. S. 70, 83.
It therefore follows that the viaduct in front of the plaintiff's premises is a use inconsistent with the public character
of the street, just as much as the other elevated railroads in
New York City, and is a taking of the property of abutting
owners, and a violation of the contracts by which they are
protected, just as in the case of the other elevated roads.
A statute, 1813, declared that the streets of New York City
are held by the city in trust for certain public purposes. The
highest court of the State has steadily held for a score of years,
that this trust precludes the erection of an elevated railroad.
Thousands of cases' have been decided by the lower courts in
accordance with the law thus laid down and tens of thousands
of conveyances made upon the faith of this rule of property.
The Court of Appeals held, in the first of the Fourth avenue
viaduct cases, that the elevated railroad decisions were fully
applicable to the situation there presented. Lewis v. N. Y.
& Harlem R. Co., 162 N. Y. 202, and when the learned judges
of that court subsequently changed their minds, although
they agreed that the elevated railroad cases were distinguishable, yet they seem to have found much difficulty in pointing
out the distinctions.
Those cases cannot be distinguiished either as to the grade

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

197 U. S.

of the street, or in the fact that the elevated roads were "permitte(d ", and in this case the viaduct was 6ommanded, or on
the railroad's title to the bed of the street or because the
change was made for the public good. Nor is the viaduct a
legitimate street use. A railroad on the street is a legitimate street use. Fobes v. Railroad Co., 121 N. Y. 505. If
the law in this case is good an obvious device has been discovered by which to impair the obligation of the trust to which
the streets of New York City were dedicated. First place the
railroad on the surface of the street; and then elevate it.
Under the Fobes case, no property owner can complain of the
first step, and, under the decision of the Court of Appeals in
this case, no one can complain of the second. And so indirectly the legislature would accomplish what it could not and should
not do directly. Forster v. Scott, 136 N. Y. 577, 584; People
v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1, 19; Gilmanv. Tucker, 128 N. Y. 190, 204.
The legislature cannot violate the Constitution, and redeem
the violation by the claim that it was done "for the public
benefit." The repudiation of contract obligations is quite
usually sought to be justified by the plea of "the public benefit;" but the Constitution of the United States may not be
nullified in so simple and easy a fashion. Minnesota v. Barber,
136 U. S. 313, 319; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, 81.
The question is not whether the work is for the public benefit.
All railroads are for the public benefit, and it is only on this
ground that the right of eminent donain is granted to them.
Yet they must pay for what they take, as private property
cannot be taken for public benefit wilhout compensation
by a statute which "directs" any more than by one which
"authorizes." The statute was but an enabling act in any
form. The Court of Appeals has construed this act to authorize the taking without compensation. The act is what
that court says it is. Therefore, it violates the Constitution.
The rule of property established by the decisions in elevated
railroad cases cannot l)e changed by the state courts.
The const:uction of a statute by a state court, so far as

MTJIILKER v. ILARLEM1
197 U. S.

RAILROAD CO.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

contract rights acquired under it are concerned, becomes as
much a part of the statute as if embodied in it ; and a
change of construction is utterly ineffectual to impair those
rights. To hold otherwise would be as unjust as to hold that
rights acquired under a statute may be lost by its repeal.
Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall.' 175, 206; Louisiana v. Pilsbury,
105 U. S. 278, 294; Christy v. PridhIeon, 4 Wall. 196; Shelby v.
Guy, 11 Wheat. 361; Douglass v. County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677,
687; Ohio Life Ins. Co. v. Deboll, [6 How. 416.
The act in question, in provi(ling for the erection of an
elevated railroad in Fourth avenue, is unconstitutional and
void.
The obligation of the contracts in this case, as construed by
the New York courts, is that Fourth avenue shall not be devoted to uses inconsistent with its character as an open public
street; that an elevated railroad, according to the construction
of the New York courts, is an inconsistent street use; and that
this construction of the said contracts cannot, so far as the
plaintiff is concerned, be altered or modified by any change
of judicial decision. The obligation of these contracts has
been impaired by cbapter 339 of the New York Laws of 1892,
which provides for the erection and operation of an elevated
railroad in Fourth avenue. Lahr v. Met. El. R. Co., 104
N. Y. 268, 291.
When the public authorities take the land of an individual
for the purpose of a public highway, and pay the proprietor
therefor, the transaction becomes a fixed contract between
them, which is within the clause of the Federal Constitution
forbidding the States to pass any law impairing the obligation
of contracts. People v. Comrs., 53 Barb. (N. Y.) 70, 74.
There is a total lack of power in the legislature to abrogate
the trust under which the city of New York holds its streets.
Elevated Railroad Cases, supra; Kane v. N. Y. El. R. Co., 125
N. Y. 164, 183; Williams v. N. Y. Cent. R. Co., 16 N. Y. 97,
108; Trustees V. Auburn &c. R. Co., 3 Hill (N. Y.), 567.
Where land is dedicated to the publie in trust for public

OCTOBER TERM, .1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error,

197 U. S.

purposes, the legislature has no power to abrogate the trust
by devoting the land to inconsistent purposes, except upon
making compensation. Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall.
272, 289; United States v. Ill. Cent. R. Co., 2 Biss. 174, 181;
Packet Co. v. Sorrels, 50 Arkansas, 466, 473; Canastota Knie
Co. v. Tramway Co., 69 Connecticut, 146, 172; Jacksonville v.
Railroad Co., 67 Illinois, 540; Chicago v. Ward, 169 Illinois,
392, 412; Warren v. Mayor, 22 Iowa, 351, 356; Franklin Co.
v. Lathrop, YfKansas, 453, 463; Schurmeier v. St. Paul &c.
R. Co., 10 Minnesota, 82, 105; aff'd 7 Wall. 272, 289; St. Paul
v. Chicago &c.R. Co., 63 Minnesota, 330, 352; Sugar Refining
Co. v. St. Louis &c.Co., 82 Missouri, 121, 125, 126; Cummings
v. St. Louis, 90 Missouri, 259, 263, 264; State v. Laverack, 34
N. J. L. 201; Trustees V. Mayor, 19 N. J. Eq. 355, 357; Methodist Episcopal Church v. Penna. R. Co., 48 N. J. Eq. 452; Le
Clercq v: Gallipolis, 7 Ohio, 217; Board of Education v. Edson,
18 Ohio St. 221, 225; Portland &c. R. Co. v. Portland, 14
Oregon, 188, 197; Lamar Co. v. Clements,. 49 Texas, 348;
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 ]Uow. 518, 565; Bridge
Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116, 144; The Binghampton
Bridge, 3 Wall. 51. This clause of the Constitution is to be
liberally construed. Murray v. Charleston, 96 U. S. 432, 448.
The act is also unconstitutional in that it directs the taking
of property without due process of law. It is the law of New
York that the owner of premises abutting on a public street
has, as appurtenant to his premises, certain easements of light,
air, and access in the street; that these easements are property;
and that the erection and operation of an elevated railroad in
the street constitutes a taking of this property. Elevated
Railroad Cases, supra; Lahr v. Met. El. R. Co., 104 N. Y. 268,
288, 289; Bohm v. Met. El. R. Co., 129 N. Y. 576, 587; Sperb
v. Met. El. R. Co., 137 N. Y. 155, 160. In this case it is conceded that the plaintiff has easements in Fourth avenue. The
trial court so found, and the Appellate Division affirmed the
finding. The Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction to review
this question of fact, and did not attempt to do so. The

MUILKER ,.
197 U. S.

IARLEM RAILROAI) CO.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

opinion speaks of the "partial destruction" of these easements
of light, air, and access (Record, p. 170, end), and thus concedes their existence. The Court of Appeals in a still later
case has recognized the easements of the Fourth avenue abutters, and, While denying a recovery for the mnain via(luct
structure, has allowed( damages for stations. Dolan v. N. '.
& Harlcm R. Co., 175 N. Y. 367. Thus the Court of Appeals
distinctly admits that the Park avenue property owners possess
tl, so-called urban easements in the avenue.
In the act we have a plain case of a statute which provi(les
for the taking of the plaintiff's property, yet makes no p)rovision
for notice to him, affords him no opportunity for a hearig,
and contains not a syllal)le in reference to compensation for
the property taken. Not ice, and a hearing of some kin(, or
an opportunity to be hear(l, are necessary eleiflents of (de
l)rocess of law. Roller v. Holly, 176 I. S. 398, 409; Car.on v.
Broclon Sewerage Com-mis.ion, 182 U. S.398, 401.
An absolite requisite of die process of law is compensation.
Tim/al v. IVs./cy, 167 iT. S. 20.1, 222; Holden v. Hardy, 1NO9
Ii. 8. 366, 390; Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269, 277. The
prohibition in the Fourt eenth Amendment applies to ,ill
the
instruinentalities of the State, to its legislative, exeeit ive and
Julicial authorities. (C/hicaop&c. R. Co. v. Chicag(o, 166 U. S.
226, 233, 241 ; Scolt v. Abl\Acd, 15 1 U. 8. 8), 15.
Mr. Ira A. Place, with whom Mr. T/omas Emery was on
1he, brief, for (lefen(lanls iln error:
The jurisdiction invoke(ld, the hearing had, the (leterinination thereon, anl resultant a(lju(lication, all had. Telation to
and involved solely the aplication of the rules and the princilles of local property law in force prior to the 1892 enactment, and remaining in force unaffected thereby, to the stattus
of p1roperty right which had resulted from the grants express
or iml)lied ante(ldating that enactment. lhile v. Al. R. Co.,
139 N. Y. 19, 25.
Plaintiff's easennts of light, ir:idl cess over the one-

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

197 U. S.

hundred-foot planned avenue which were created and brought
into existence by the grants and acts of Poillon and of his
immediate or remote grantee were, like any other property,
subject unto the operation of rules of law pertaining to and
governing the rights of eminent domain, private grant, express
or implied, abandonment, surrender and adverse user, and all
such rights as any of these might originate or evidence.
If plaintiff was entitled to recovery of compensation for
property taken or for contract broken, the act of 1892 presented no barrier to his recovery, and it was not necessary to
such recovery that the act contain provision therefor; and
therefore lack of such provision could not render it unconstitutional as constituting the taking of property without due
process of-law. Reining v. Railroad Co., 128 N. Y. 157; Egerer
v. Racilrad Co., 130 N. Y. 108.
The rights of the railroad company in regard to the Park
avenue improvement, have been passed on in Birrell v. Railroad Co.' 41 App. Div. 506; S. C., 60 App. Div. 630; S. C., 173
N. Y. 644; Caldwell v. Railroad Co., 84 App. Div. 637; Campbell v. Railroad Co., 35 Misc. 497; S. C., 84 App. Div. 637;
Conabeer v. Railroad Co., 84 Hun, 34; S. C., 156 N. Y. 474;
Dolan v. Railroad Co., 74 App. Div. 434; S. C., 175 N. Y. 367;
Ehret v. Railroad Co., 74 App. Div. 628; S. C., 175 N. Y. 503;
Fries v. Railroad Co., 57 App. Div. 577; S. C., 169 N. Y. 270;
Henry v. Railroad Co., 84 App. Div. 637; Keirns v. Railroad
Co., 60 App. Div. 630; S. C., 173 N. Y. 642; Ketcham v. Railroad Co., 76 App. Div. 619; S. C., 177 N. Y. 247; Kriete v.
Railroad Co., 67 App. Div. 620; S.C., 175 N. Y. 484; Larney
v. Railroad Co., 62 App. Div. 311; Lewis v. Railroad Co., 25
Misc. 13; S. C., 40 App. Div. 343; S. C., 162 N. Y. 202; McCarthy v. Railroad Co., 74 App. Div. 629; S.C., 175 N. Y. 504;
Mt. Morris Bank v. Railroad Co., 84 App. Div. 637; Muhlker
v. RailroadCo., 60 App. Div. 621; S.C., 173 N. Y. 549; Niewenhous v. Railroad Co., 76 App. Div. 619; S. C., 177 N. Y. 566;
O'Neil v. Railroad Co., 67 App. Div. 620; S.C., 175 N. Y. 484;
Pape y. Railroad Co., 74 App. Div. 175; S. C., 175 N. Y. 504;

MUILKER v. HIARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

People ex rel. Railroad Co. v. Havemeyer, 47 How. Pr. 494;
Sander v. Railroad Co., 42 App. Div. 618; Sander v. Railroad
Co., 58 App. Div. 622; Scholz v. Railroad Co., 67 App. Div.
620; S. C., 175 N. Y. 485; Siegel v. Railroad Co., 62 App. Div.
290; S. C., 173 N. Y. 644; Tocci v. Mayor, 73 Hun, 46; Talbot
v. Railroad Co., 78 Hun, 473; S. C., 151 N. Y. 155; Taylor v.
Railroad Co., 27 App. Div. 190; Tynberg v. Railroad Co., 84
App. Div. 637; Welde v. Railroad Co., 28 App. Div. 379;
Welde v. Railroad Co., 29 Misc. 13; S. C., 53 App. Div. 637;
S. C., 168 N. Y. 597.
Failure of plaintiff's case has not resulted from want of due
process of law. He has invoked and had orderly and full
hearing preliminary to, and thereupon adjudication by the
state courts of competent jurisdiction over the subject matter
of his complaint. The conclusion and adjudication against
him are based upon the finding that plaintiff and his predecessors in title had either never possessed or had granted
away the property rights, the alleged deprivation of~which
constitites the gravamen of his complaint. It follows that
the judgment, howsoever, if at all, erroneous, is not subject
-unto the criticism of lack of due process of law. Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Mo. Pae. Ry. Co. v. Flumes, 115
U. S. 512; Marchant v. Penna. R. R. Co., 153 U. S. 380; Remington Co. v. Watson, 17 U. S. 443.
Where a property or property right is vested subject unto
the right and power of police regulation or public servitude,
contract obligation in respect of such property or property
right cannot be relied upon to oust or terminate the exercise
of the right of such regulation or servitude. Presbyterian
Church v. New York, 5 Cowen, 538; Gushee v. New York, 42
App. Div. 37; Butchers' Union v. Crescent City Co., I II U. S. 746.
Contract obligation is deemed subject unto State's right of
police power.
The city and the railroad company were and are the
creatures of the State. As to each, the State itall times
has the right and. power of amene(hnl.t and altera ion of their

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

197 U. S.

respective charter powers. Neither of them could, by entering into contract obligation with or to plaintiff's predecessors
in title, deprive the State of, or cripple its exercise of, the
right and power to regulate the street and railroad so as to
enlarge the usefulness of the street in and for its primary purposes; or deprive the State of the right and power to itself,
or by a corporation created for the purpose, build, maintain
and operate, upon a line selected by either, a railroad for
common carrier service, upon payment of compensation for
and thereby acquirement of the land requisite and used therefor. Any contract with either corporation must, as matter
of law, be deemed to have been entered into with knowledge
to
of and regard to such right and power of the State, and
the
of
command
or
direction
intend that obedience to the
State in contravention of the letter of the obligation shall not
be accounted a breach of the obligation.
An enactment in such case prescribing police regulation in
contravention of the terms of the contract, is not nullified by
the Federal Constitution's inhibition of impairment ofi'he ob'ligation of the contract. Lord v. Thomas, 64 N. Y. 107; Brown
v. Colorado, 106 U. S. 95; Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wall.
190; Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57.
The holdings. of the state court that, as against plaintiff,
the State possessed the right and power of such regulation of
street and railroad maintenance and use as were prescribed by
and carried into effect in pursuance of the 1892 enactment,
and that consequential damage and loss thus occasioned was
governed by the doctrine of damnum absque infuria, viewed
in the light of the proofs and findings as to the origin,, history
to
and character of street and railroad maintenance and use
which, those easements were incident, evinces that asmatter
of local property law pertinent thereto, those easements, if at
all owned by plaintiff, were deemed to be held. not by title
absolute, but subject unto the impress of the right and power
of state regulation and servitude such as was therein exercised.
Goszler v. Georgetown, 6 Wheat, 593; Stone v. Mississippi, 101

MUHLKER v. IIARLEM RAILROAI) CO.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

U. S. 814; Eldridge v. Trezevant, 160 U. S. 452; Meyer v. Richmond, 172 U. S. 82, 94.
State decisions construing the state statute of limitations
in respect to real property, and declaring what constitutes
adverse possession, and the effect thereof, when continued for
the period of limitation, constitute a rule of property binding
upon the Federal courts of law and in equity in adjudicating
upon titles to land. within that State. Elder v. McClaskey,
17 C. C. A. 251; certiorari denied 163 U. S. 685; Lobenstine v.
Union El. R. Co., 80 Fed. Rep. 9; Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat.
361; Green v. McLean, 6 Pet. 291. For effect of the words,
"persons beyond seas," in a state statute of limitations, as
applied to persons in another colony, see Livingston v. Moore,
7 Pet. 469; Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black. 599; Tiogo R. R. Co.
v. Blossburg R. R. Co., 20 Wall. 137.
State court decisions in respect of property having its situs
therein, and in respect of thereto appurtenant rights and liabilities, whether founded upon the state constitution, statute
or common law, constitute a rule of property binding upon
the Federal courts adjudicating upon titles, rights or liabilities
pertaining to such property in that State. Walker v. Commissioners, 17 Wall. 648; Townsend v. Todd, 91 U. S. 452;
Detroit v. Osborne, 135 U. S. 492; N. Y. & N. E. R. R. Co., v.
Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; Sioux City R. R. Co. v. Trust Co., 173
U. S. 99; Wade v. Travis County, 174 U. S. 499; Insurance
Co. v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 175 U. S. 91.
The right and power to prescribe the rules of property law
whereby recovery of consequential damage, occasioned by or
under authority of A State, to real property in its domain,
shall be accorded or refused, is matter of state prerogative not
surrendered to Federal governance, nor subject to its supervision. Penna. R. R. Co. v. Miller, 132 U. S. 75; Marchant v.
Penna. R. R. Co., 153 U. S. 380. The doctrine of damnnum
absque injuria, adjudged to govern herein, is recognized as
fundamental in New York and Federal courts. Radcliffe V.
Brooklyn, 4 N. Y. 195; Callender v. Marsh, 1 Pick. 41'7; Smith

OCTOBER TERMI, 1904.
Argument for Defendants in Error,

197 U. S

v. Washington, 20 How. 135, 149; TransportationCo. v. Chicago,
99 U, S. 635; Chicago v. Taylor, 125 U. S. 161; Wabash R. Co.
v. Defiance, 167 U. S. 88; High Bridge Lumber Co. v. United
States, 69 Fed. Rep. 324; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 587;
Bellinger v. N. Y. Cent. R.R. Co., 23 N. Y. 42, 48; Selden v.
-Del. & Hud. Canal Co., 29 N. Y. 634, 642; Coster v. Mayor of
Albany, 43 N. Y. 399, 415; Uline v. N.-Y. C. & H. R. R. R. Co.,
101 -N. Y. 98, 101; Conklin v. Railroad,Co., 102 N.Y. 107, 111;
Heiser v. New York City, 104 N. Y. 68, 72; Atwater v. Trustees,
124 U. S. 602, 608, distinguishing St. Peter v. Denison, 58
N. Y. 416; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166. And
see also Benner v. Dredging Co., 134 N. Y. 156, 161; Rauenstein V. Railway Co., 136 N. Y. 528; Cogswell v. Railroad Co.,
.103 N. Y. 10, 15, 19; Hill v. Mayor, 139 N. Y. 495, 501; Folmsbee v. City of Amsterdam, 142 N. Y. 118, 122; Uppington v.
New York City, 165 N. Y. 222, 229; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179
U. S.141; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269.
The trial court found and adjudged that the improvement,
executed in pursuance of the enactment, trespassed upon plaintiff's easements, and further adjudged existing laws applicable
to and adequate for ascertainment of, and award of compensation for the property the subject of ttlif- trespass.
The Court of Appeals. did io reverse the" judgment upon
the ground or theory that the lower court had erred in adjudging existing laws applicabIe- to and adequate authority
for ascertainment and award of coinpeusation for property
taken or trespassed upon, but did reverse the judgm6nt upon
the ground and theory that the damage occasioned was consequential merely, and'hence not actionable.
This is purely a local question, and as decided shows plaintiff not in position to contend that the enactment is invalid, in
that it fails to provide compensation in favor of any who may
suffer actionable damage resultant from :tlie carrying into
effect of its provisions. Castillo v. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674;
Tyler v. Registration Court Judges, 179 U. S. 405; Hooker v.
Burr, 194 U. S. 415.

MUJILKER v. HARLEM RAILROAI) CO.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

The plaintiff invoked*and had herein the usual and ordinary
process, tle orderly and full hearing, and thereupon (leterulination anl adjudication in respect of the alleged taking of and
trespass upon his easements in IPark avenue in and by the
maintenance and use of the elevated railroad structure described in his complaint.
The structure was directed and built by the State, and used
in obedience to the command of the State, extending above
and over, and supported by columns standing in and upon,
land which was theretofore and thereunto, rightfully, as against
plaintiff, occupied and used exclusively by and for the railroad. The State directed and carried into effect this elevation
of railroad structure and operations for the purpose of effecting, and ther'eby did effect the enlargement of the street surface by embracing therein and extending the same over the
ground theretofore as aforesaid occupied and used exclusively
by and for the railroad and its operations.
In and by the proceedings taken and had in the said action
only long-time-established process and procedure were availed
of and followed, and only long-tim'e-established and vindicated
rules of property laws were administered.
The 1892 enactment, which plaintiff alleges to be violative
of the Federal Constitution, as and by way of-(1) taking his
property without due process of law, and (2), impairing the
obligations of contracts, contained no provision the purport
whereof would or might in anywise deprive complainants of,
or restrain them in or about availing themselves of the plain
and adequate process and remedy provided by existing laws
in respect of property taken for, or trespassed upon in and
about the carrying into effect of, a lawfully authorized public
use. That enactment was not in any wise asserted or relied
upon by the defendants as or by way of a defense or shield tO,
protect them from liability in respect of any property approl)riated or contract obligation violated, nor was it in any wise
adjudged to constitute such shield in respect of either propurty taken or contract broken..

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

The power of the State to prescribe and carry into effect
this regulation as and for and by way of enlargement of the
street surface for public travel therein was taken for granted
by both parties, and all questions in respect of the possession
of such power or of the proper exercise thereof, excluded from
dispute by the nature and form of the action and issue. The
(luestions litigated had relation solely to the fact and measure
of taking of or tres)ass upon )rivate property, which had
resulted from the carrying into effect of the provisions of the
enactmient.
disentitled
The ground upon which plaintiff was adjudged
had
plaintiff
that
to recover was, that in so far as it appeared
the
of
any right or title in or to the easements, the subject
alleged taking and trespass, his right and title thereto were in
such wise subordinate and subject unto respective and joint
public street an(l railroad servitude that the acts and conduct
of which he complained (lid not constitute any taking of or
trespass upon the said easements, invaded no legal right and
violated no legal duty, and hence that the loss and damage
alleged were within -and governed by the rule of dam num
absque injuria.
The judgment is founded upon interpretation and application of local rules of law, following a1d consequent upon the
exercise and administration of or(linary and usual process, and
in no wise involving any (question to which Federal Constitution inhibitions have relation.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the ca se, announced
the judgment of the court and (lelivered the following opinion:
As we have observed, the Supreme Court followed Lcwwi' v.
New York & Harlem Railroad, 162 N. Y. 202, both in the
and "the legal princil)les
"form of decision and judgmente"
involved." Discussion was not considered necessary. The
Appellate Division affirmed the judgment on the authority of
it.
the same case and other cases which had been ruled by

MUIILKEIi v. HARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court, by brief expression, pointed out the identity of the
cases and disposed of the defense made by the railroad companies of adverse possessioh as follows:
"The question of defendants having acquired title by adverse possession was considered by this court in both the Fries
and Sander cases. In the former it was said: 'For these reasons the deed to the city was valid as against the railroad
company, and it had no title to that part of the strect in front
of the plaintiff's premiises, and its only rights, therefore, were
those which it had acquired by adverse possession. Within
the rule laid down in the case of Lewis v. New York & Harlem
R. R. Co. (cited above), that adverse possession did not give
to the railroad company the right to carry, its tracks, which
for twenty years had run in a cut, upon a viaduct such as this
is, above ground, in front of the plaintiff's premises. The
case of Lewis applies fully to the one at bar.' In the Sander
case this court followed the decision just quoted, the presiding
justice dissenting on the sole ground that 'Title by adverse
possession as to the twenty-four foot strip at least was established by the evidence.' "
In the case at bar there is a complete change of ruling by
the Court of Appeals. The Lewis case is declared, in so far
as it expressed rights of abutting p)roperty owners, to have been
improvidently decided, and the elevated railroad cases, which
were made its support, were distitnguished. The court rested
its ruling on one point, the effect of the act of 1892, under which
the structure complained of was erected, the court declaring
that act a commani(! to the railroad company in the interest
of the public; indeed, made the state -thebuilder of the new
structure and the use of it by tie railroaas mere obedience to
law. But it does not follow that private.property can be taken
either by the erection of the structure or its use. This was
plainly seen and expressed in the Lewis case 'as to the use of
the structure. It was there said: "When they (the railroads),
commenced to use the steel viaduct they started a new trespass
upon the rights of the abutting owne:s." There was no hesitaVol,. Cxcv11- 3

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

tion then in marking the line between the power of the State
and the duty of the railroad, and assigning responsibility to
the latter. This was in accordance with principle. The command of the State, the duty of the railroad to obey, may
encounter the inviolability of private property. And in performing the dities devolved upon it a railroad may be required
to exercise the right of eminent domain. Wisconsin, Minn.
& Pac. R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; see also Mayor and
Aldermen of Worcester v. Norwich and Worcester R. R., 109

Massachusetts, 103. We do not, therefore, solve the questions
in this case by reference to the power of the State and the duty
of the railroads; the rights of abutting property owners must
be considered, and against their infringement plaintiff urges
the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States
and the Fourteenth Amendment. The latter is invoked because the act of 1892 does not provide for compensation to
property owriers, and the former on account of the conditions
upon which the strip of land constituting the avenue was conveyed to the city. There were two deeds to the city, one made
in 1825 and the other in 1827. That of 1825 was stated to be
"in trust, nevertheless, that the same be appropriated and be
kept open as parts of public streets and avenues forever, in
like manner as the other public streets and avenues in said
city are and of right ought to be." The deed of 1827 wa;3 also
"in trust that the same be left 'open as public streets for the
use and benefit of the inhabitants of said city forever." Plaintiff derives title from Poillon, grantor of the city in the deed
of 1827, and hence contends that he is entitled to enforce the
trust created by Poillon's deed to the city. The railroads
oppose this contention. They assert title to the land upon
which the structure complained of stands by deed and by

prescription. The details of these contentions we need not
repeat nor discuss. They are stated at length in the Lewis
case, and the conclusions there expressed are not disturbed by
the decision of the Courts of Appeals in the case at bar. The
case is therefore presented to us as to the effect of the deed of

MUHLKER v. 1IARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Poillon to0the plaintiff and to the city as constituting a contract, and the effect of the act of 1892 as an impairment of that
contract or as taking plaintiff's property without due process
of law. These questions were directly passed on and negatived
by the Court of Appeals.
It will be observed from the statement of facts that before
the construction of the viaduct complained of the railroad ran
partly on the surface of the street and partly in a cut or trench,
the latter being flanked by masonry walls three feet high.
The viaduct is a solid roadbed thirty-one feet above the surface, having iron girders on the sides and in the middle, and
supported by iron columns, of which there are six in front of
the plaintiff's land. The old constructidn prevented crossing
or access to the tracks. The new construction impairs or destroys the plaintiff's easements of light and air. And such
easements the trial court found belonged to plaintiff in common
with other abutters upon the public streets of New York and
his damages for their impairment to be as expressed by Bartlett, J., in his dissenting opinion, "$3,000 fee damages, $1,400
rental damages, from February 16, 1897, to October 10, 1900,"
the date of trial; that is, $4-,400- present damage. It is suggested, however, that the Court of Appeals did not deny the
rights of the abutters, but considered that the most important
phase of those rights was that of access, and the plaintiff did
not have this over the railroad by reason of the stone wall.
The basis of the suggestion, as we understand, is the idei that
p)laintiff was coml)ensated for the injury of his easements of
light and air by an increase of his easement of access without
regard to the resulting damage. To do this, hpwever- is to
make one easement depend upon another, both of which are
inseparal)le attributes of property and equally necessary to its
enjoyment. It is impossible for us to conceive of a city without streets, or any benefit in streets, if twe property abutting
on them has not attached to it as an essential and inviolable
part, easements of light and air as well ab of access. There 11
.5oniething of mockery to give one .ceecs4 to property which

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

may be unfit to live on when one gets there. To what situation is the plaintiff brought? Because he can cross the railroad at more places on the street, the State, it is contended,
can authorize dirt, cinders and smoke from 200 trains a day
to be poured into the upper windows of his house.
In Barnett v. Johnson, 15 N. J. Eq. 481, there is a clear
expression of the right of abutting owners to light and air, and
of the common practice and sense of the world upon which it
is founded. "It is a right," the court said, "founded in such
an urgent necessity that all laws and legal proceedings take
it for granted. A right so strong that it protects itself, so
urgent that, upon any attempt to annul or infringe it, it would
set at defiance all legislative enactment and all judicial decision." And, graphically describing the right, observed'further, "is not every window and every door in every house in
every city, town, and village the assertion and maintenance
of this right?" It has been said Barnett v. Johnson anticipated
"the principle upon which compensation was at last secured in
the elevated- railroad cases in New York." I Lewis Eminent
Domain, 183.
It is manifest that easements of light and air cannot be made
dependent upon the easement of access, and whether they can
be taken away in the interest of the public under the conditions upon which the city obtained title to the streets is now
to be considered. The answer depends upon the ciases of
Story v. New York Elevated R.R. Co., 90 N. Y. 122, and Lahr
v. Metropolitan Elevated R. R. Co., 104 N. Y. 268, known as
the elevated railroad cases. The Lahr case was decided in
1887. The plaintiff in the case at bar acquired title to his
property in 1888.
The first of the elevated railroad cases was the Story case,
decided in 1882. The plaintiff in the case was the owner of a
lot on the corner of Moore and Front streets in the city of
New York, on which there were buildings. To their enjoyment light, air and access were indispensable, and were had
.through.Front street. The defendant was about to construct

MUIILKER v. IARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a railroad above the surface of that street upon a series of
columns, about fifteen inches square, fourteen feet and six
inches high, placed five inches inside of the sidewalk,, with
girders from thirty-three to thirty-nine inches deep, for the
support of cross ties for three sets of rails for a steam railroad.
The cars were to be of such a construction as to reach within
nine feet of plaintiff's buildings, and trains were to be run
every three minutes, and at a rate of speed as high as eighteen
miles an hour.
The fact of injury to the abutting lot was found by the trial
court, and also that the city of New York was the owner in fee
of Front street, opposite plaintiff's lots, and that he was not
and never had been seized of the same in fee nor had any
estate therein.
The Supreme Court said the case involved the question
whether the scheme of the defendant amounted to the taking'
of any property of the plaintiff; if it did, it was said, the judgment was invalid on the ground that the intended act, when
performed, would violate not only the provision of the Con,
stitution, which declared that such property should not be
taken without just compensation, but certain statutes by which
defendant was bound or owed its existence, and which would
not have been upheld unless, in the opinion of the court, they
had provided means to secure such compensation.
The plaintiff contended that, as owner of the abutting
premises, he had the fee to one-half of the bed of .the street
opposite thereto, and he also contended, if the fee was in the
city, he, as abutting owner, had such right to have light and
access afforded by the street above the roadbed as entitled
him to have it kept open for those uses until by legal process
and upon just compensation that right was taken away. The
defendant justified its intended acts through the permission
of the city. The issue thus made the court passed on, and in
doing so assumed that the city owned the fee of the street, and
that the plaintiff derived his title from the city. It was held
that the plaintiff had acquired "the right and privilege of

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197"U. S.

having the street forever kept open as such;" and that the
right thus secured was an incorporeal hereditament, which
"became at once appurtenant to the lot and formed an 'integral part of the estate' in it," and which followed the estate
and constituted a perpetual encumbrance upon the land burdened with it. "From the moment it attached," the court
observed, "the lot became the dominant, and the open way
or street the servient tenement." Cases were cited for these
propositions. And the extent of the easement was defined to
be not only access to the lot, but light and air from it. The
court said: "The street ocdupies the surface and to its uses
the rights of the adjacent lots are subordinate, but above the
surface there can be no lawful obstruction to the access of
light and air, to the detriment of the abutting owner." And
further: "The elements of light and air are both to be derived
from the space over the land, on the surface of which the street
is constructed, and which is made servient for that purpose."
This was emphasized, the court observing: "Before any interest passed to the city, the owner of th. land had from it
the benefit of air and light. The public purpose of a street
requires of the soil the surface only." The easement was (declared to be property and within the I)rotection of the constitutional provision for compensation for its diminution by
the contemplated structure.
It is, of course, impossible to reproduce the argument of
the court by which its conclusions were sustained. It is
enough to say that a distinction was clearly made between the
rights of abutting owners in the surface of the street and their
.rights in the space above the street, and the distinction was also
clearly made between damages and a taking. A review was
made of the cases upon which those distinctions rested. The
power of a city to alter a grade of a street was adverted to, and
held not to justify the intended structure. There was no
change in the street surface intended, it was said, "but the
elevation of a structure useless for street purposes and as
foreign thereto," as the house which was held to be an ob

MUIILKER v. IIARLEM RAILROA)
197 U. S.

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

struction in Corning v. Lowerre, 6 Johns. Ch. 439, or the
freight depot in Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S.324.
/ [he conclusion of the courland the distinctions made by it
were repeated in Lahr v. Metropolitan Elevated R. R. Co., 104
N. Y. 268. The structure complained of in the latter case was
also an elevated railroad.
Chief Judge Ruger, speaking for the court, openedhis opinion by observing that the action was "the sequel of the Stoy.
case," and that its defense seemed to have been conducted
upon the theory of endeavoring to secure a reaxamination of
that case. The endeavor, it was said, must fail, because the
doctrine of the Story case had been pronounced after most
careful and thorough consideration and after two arguments
at the bar, made by most eminent counsel, had apparently
exhausted the resources of learning and reasoning in the discussion of the question presented. And it was declared that
"it woul be the occasion of great public injury, if a determination thus made could be inconsiderately unsettled anl
suffered again to become the subject of doubt, and theme of
renewed(l discussion." The doctrine of the Story case was declared to be ,dre decisis, not only upon all the questions involved, bl, upon all that came logically within the principles
decided. There was an enumeration of those principles, as
follows:
(I) That an elevated railroad, of the kind described, was a
perversion of the use of a street, which neither the city nor the
legisla'ure couldl legalize without provi(ling compensation for
the injury inflicted Ul)On the property of abutting owners.
(2)
ahat abutters upon a public street, claiming title by
grant from the municipal authorities, which contained a covenant that streets which could he laid out should continue as
other streets, acquired an easement in the bed of tht, street for
ingress anid egress to and from their premises, and also for the
free an(l uni le'rul)te(l passage afi (ir(lilation of light 'and air
ihro
i gl and o('
e sti c street for the ben(fit of he pr01 erty
sit iaoted t,
hereon.

OCT()BER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

(3) That such easement was an interest in real estate and
constituted property, within the meaning of the constitution
of the State, and could not be taken for a public use without
payment of compensation.
(4) That an elevated railroad, upon which cars propelled
by steam engines which generated gas, steam an(l smoke and
distributed in the air cinders, (lust, ashes, and other noxious
and deleterious substances, and interrupted the free passage
of light and air to and from adjoining preniss,, constituted
a taking of the easement, and rendered the railroad company
liable for the damages occasioned by. such taking.
The application of these principles was resisted on the ground
that the city was the grantor of the plaintiff in the Story case
and could not derogate from the title a property itconveyed,
and, it was contended, that the case went off on that ground.
This was rejected and the principles enumerated held to apply,
notwithstanding the land in the street had been taken from
plaintiff's grantor by proceedings in invitum. And rights of
abutting owners were held to rest in contract constituted by
the conditions upon which the city received the property.
Equally untenable are the grounds of distinction urged in
the ease at bar against the apl)li ation of those principles.
What are they? In the Story and Lahr cases the railroads were
imposed for the first time on the street. .In the case at bar
the Harlem Railroad had occupied the surface of the street,
an(l was changed to the viaduct. But in the Story and Lahr
cases it was not the fact that the railroads were imposed on
the street for the first .time that determined the judgment
rendere(l. It was the fac*t that trains were run upon an elevate(l structure, interrupting the easements of light and air
of the abutting owners. It was this' that constituted a..use
inconsistent with the purpose of the street. It was the "elevation of a structure," to (Iuote again from the Story case,
"useless for general street pl)tioses." This situation of the
railroal was espeeiilly dwelt ilp<n in the Story case, and that
case was distinguished thereby from the surface railway cases.

MIUILKER v. lIARI
197 U. S.

EM RAIIR()AD CO.

Opinion of the Court.

And in the Lewis case a difference was recognized between the
two situations, and a balance struck between damage done by
the railroad in one situation and the railroad in the other
situation. The Lewis case, we have seen, was overruled by
the Court of Appeals in the case at bar, while the Story and
Lahr cases were said not to be in point. We think that the
Lewis case was an irresistible consequence of the others, and
the Story and Lahr cases are in point and decisive.
Another distinction is claimed, as we have already observed,
between the case at bar and those cases. The act of the railroad in occupying the viaduct, it is said, was the act of the
State. But this defense kas'made in the other cases. It did
not give the court much trouble. It is urged, however, now,
with an increased assurance. Indeed, it is made the ground
of decision, as we have seen by the Court of Appeals. The
court said: "The decisions in the elevated railroad cases are
not in point. There no attempt was made by the State to
improve the street for the benefit of the public. Instead, it
granted to a corporation the right to make an additional use
of the street, in the doing of which it took certain easements
belonging to abutting owners, which it was compelled to compensate them for." And, further, making distinction between
those cases and that at bar, said: "The State could not if it
would-and probably would not if it could-deprive defendant of its right to operate its trains in the street. But it had
the power in the public interest to compel it to run its trains
upon a viaduct instead of in the subway." And the court concluded that it was the State, not the railroads, which did the
injury to plaintiff's property. The answer need not be hesitating. The permission, or command of the State, can give no
power to invade private rights, even for a public purpose
without payment of compensation; and payment of such compensation, when necessary to the performance of the (luties of
a railroad company, may be, as we have already observed, part
of its submission to the command of the Sttte. 'I'h railroads
the cornpaid one-half of the expense of the change, 'y

OCT()It 'I,
TEAM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

niand of the statute, and, hence, under compulsion of law,' "
to quote from the Court of Appeals. The pul)lic interest, therefore, isinade too much of. It is given hn excessive, if not a
false quantity. Its use as a justification is open to the objection inade at the argument, it enables the State to do by two
acts that which would be illegal if done by one. In other
words, as under the law of New York the State can !'uthorize
a railroad to occupy the surface of a street it can subsequently
perinit or order the railroad to raise its tracks above the street
and justify the imIpairnient of lroperty rights 1by the public
interest. It was said in the 8tory ca.e that " the public purpose
of a street requires of the soil the surface only." And this
was followed in Fobes v. R., JV. & 0. R. Co., 121 N. Y. 505,
where a steam railroad was permitted upon a street without
liability for consequential damages to a(ljoining property.
The new princil)le based upon the public interest destroys all
distinction between the surface of the soil of a street and the
space above the surface, and, seemingly, leaves remaining no
vital rernumat of the doctrine of the elevated railroad cases.
However, we need not go farther than the present case denands. When the plaintiff acquired his title those caseswere
the law of New York, ando assured to hi)m that his easements
of light an(d air were securel by contract as ex)ressedl in those
cases, and could not be taken from him without 1)ayioeint of
compensation.
And this is the ground of our decision. We are not called
upon to discuss the power or the limitations upon the power,
of tile courts of New York to declare rules of prol)erty or change
or modify their decisions, but only to decide that such power
cannot be exercised' to take away rights which have been
acquired by contract and have come under the protection of
the Constitution of the United States. And we determine for
ourselves the existence and extent of such contract. This is
a truisni; and when there is a diversity of state decisions the
first in tine mway constitute the obligation of the contract and
the measure of rights under it. Hence the importance of the

MUIILKER vi,. HARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

IIOLMEs,.J., dissenting.

elevated railroad cases and the doctrine they had pronounced
when the plaintiff acquired his property. He bought under
their assurance, and that these decisions might have been
different or that the plaintiff might have balanced the chances
of the commercial advantage between the right to have the
street remain open and the expectation that it would remain
so is too intangible to estimate. We certainly can estimate
the difference between a building with full access of light and
air and one with those elements impaired or polluted. But
we have already expressed this. We need only add that the
right of passage is not all there is to a street, and to call it the
primary right is more or less delusive. It is the more conspicuous right, has the importance and assertion of community
interest and ownership, properly has a certain dominance, but
it is not more necessary to the making of a city than the rights
to light and air, held, though the latter are, in individual
ownership and asserted only as rights of private property.
The true relation and subordination of these rights, public and
private, is expressed, not only by the elevated railroad cases,
but by other cases. They are collected in 1 Lewis Eminent
Domain, section 91c, and, it is there said, "established beyond
question the existence of these rights, or easements, of light,
air and access, as appurtenant to abutting lots, and that they
are as much property as the lots themselves."
Judgment is rerersed and causc remanded for further proceedings not inconsist.cnt with lhiis opinion.
MR. JUSTicn BROWN concurs in the result.

dissenting.
I regret that I am unable to agree with the judgment of the
court, and as it seems to me to involve important principles
I think it advisable to express my disagreement and to give
my reasons for it.
The plaintiff owns no soil within the limits of te' avenue.
MR. ,JUSTICE HOLMES

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
HOLMES, J,, dissenting.

197 U. S.

The New York and Harlem Railroad Company at the time of
the change was and long had been the owner, and the other
defendant was the lessee of a railroad with four tracks along
the middle 'of Park avenue, in front of the plaintiff's land, at
the south end being at the surface of the avenue, and at the
north in a trench about four feet and a half deep, the railroad
being bounded on both sides by a masonry wall three feet
high, which prevented crossing or access to the tracks. This
is the finding of the court of first instance and I take it to be
binding upon us, We have nothing to (1o with the evidence.
I take it to mean the same thing as the finding in Fries v. New
York & Harlem R. R., 169 N. Y. 270, that the defendants had
"acquired the right without liability to the plaintiff to have,
maintain and use their railroad and railroad structures as the
same were maintained and used prior to February 16, 1897."
The material portion of the decision of the Court of Appeals
is that on this state of facts, as was held in the similar case of
Fries v. New York & Harlem R. R., the plaintiff had no property right which was infringed in such a way as to be anything more than damnum absque injuria. The finding that the
railroad had the right to maintain the former structures was
held to distinguish the case from the elevated railroad cases,
where pillars were planted in the street without right as against
the plaintiff. Story v. New York Elevated R.R., 90 N. Y. 122,
160, 170, 178; Lahr v. Metropolitan Elevated Ry., 104 N. Y.
268. The other so-called finding, that the new structure infringes the plaintiff's right, is inerly a ruling of law that notwithstanding the facts specifically found the plaintiff has a
cause of action by reason of his being an abutter upon a public
street.
The plaintiff's rights, whether expressed in terms of property
or of contract, are all a construction of the courts, deduced by
way of consequence from dedication to and trusts for the purposes of a public street. They never were granted to him or
his predecessors in express words, or, probably, by any conscious implication. If at the outset the New York courts had

MUHLKER v. HARLEM RAILROAD CO.
197 U. S.

HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

decided that apart from statute or express grant the abutters
on a street had only the rights of the public and no private
easement of any kind, it would have been in no way amazing.
it would have been very possible to distinguish between the
practical commerciai advantages of the expectation that a
street would remain open and a right in ren that it should
Maldcn, 157 Massachusetts, 17.
remain so. See Stanwood .v.
Again, more narrowly, if the New York courts had held. that
an easement of light and air could be created only by express
words, and that the laying out or dedication of a street, or the
grant of a house bounding upon one, gave no such easement to
abutters, they would not have been alone in the world of the
common law. Keats v. Hugo, 115 Massachusetts, 204, 216.
The doctrine that abutters upon a highway have an easement
of light and air is stated as a novelty in point of authority in
Barnett v. Johnson, 15 N. J. Eq. 481, 489, and that case was
decided in a State where it was held that 'a like right might be
acquired by pr,'scription. Robeson v. Pittenger, I Green Ch. 57.
If the decisions, which I say conceivably might have been
made, had been made as to the common law, they would have
infringed no rights under the Constitution of the United States.
So much, I presume, would be admitted by every one. But
if that be admitted, I ask myself what has happened to cut
down the power of the same courts as against that same Constitution at the present 'lay. So far as I know the only thing
which has happened is that they have decided the clevated
railroad "ases, to which I have referred. It is on that ground
alone that we are asked to review the decision of the Court of
Appeals upon what otherwise would be purely a matter of
local law. 1In other words, we are asked to extend to the
present case the principle of Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 17.5,
and Louisiana v. Pilsbury, 105 U. S.278, as to public bonds
bought on the faith of a decision that they were constitutionally
issued. That seems to ine a great, unwarranted and undesirable extension of a doctrine which it took this court a good
while .to explain. The doctrine now is explained, however,

OCTOBER TERM, "1904.
HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

197 U. S.

not to mean that a change in the decision impairs the obligation of contracts, Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 34; Stanly
Coiunty v. Coler, 190 U. S. 437, 444, 445, and certainly never
has been supposed to mean that all property owners in a State
have a vested right that no general proposition of law shall
be reversed, changed or modified by the courts if the consequence to them will be more or less pecuniary loss. I know
of no constitutional principle to prevent the complete reversal
of the elevated railroad cases to-morrow, if it should seem
proper to the Court of Appeals; See Central Land Co. v.
Laidley, 159 U. S. 103.
But I conceive that the plaintiff in error must go much
further than to say that my last proposition is wrong. I think
he must say that he has a constitutional right not only that
the state courts shall not reverse their earlier decisions upon
a matter of property rights, but that they shall not distinguish them unless the distinction is so fortunate as to strike
a majority of this court as sound. For the Court of Appeals
has not purported to overrule the elevated railroad cases. It
simply has decided that the import and the intent of those cases
does not extend to the case at bar. In those cases the defendants had impaired the plaintiff's access to the street. It is
entirely possible and consistent with all that they decided to
say now that access is the foundation of the whole matter;
that the right to light and air is a parasitic right incident to
the right to have the street kept open for purposes of travel,
and that when, as here, the latter right does not exist the basis
of the claim to light and air is gone.
But again, if the plaintiff had an ea-sement over the whole
street he got it as a tacit incident of an appropriation of the
street to the uses of the ptblic. The legislature and the Court
of Appeats of New York have said that the statute assailed
was passed for the benefit of the public using the street, and
I accept their view. The most obvioussaspect of the change
is that the whole street now is open to travel, and that an
impassable barrier along its width has been removed, in other

MRUiLKER v. 1LARLEA1 RAILROAI) (O.
197 U.S.

HOLMES, J., dissenting.

words, that the convenience of travellers on the highway has
been considered and enhanced. Now still considering distinctions which might be taken between this and the earlier
cases, it was possible for the New York Courts to hold, as they
seem to have held, that the easement which they had declared
to exist is subject to the fullest exercise of the primary right
out of which it sprang, and that any change in the street for
the benefit of public travel is a matter of public right, as against
what I have called the parasitic right which the plaintiff clailms.
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141; Gibson v. United States,
166 U. S. 269.
The foregoing distinctions seem to me not wanting in good
sense. Certainly I should have been inclined to adopt one or
both of them, or in some way to avoid the earlier decisions.
But I am not discussing the question whether they are sound.
If my disagreement was confined to that I should be silent.
I am considering what there is in the Constitution of the
United States forbidding the Court of Appeals to hold them
sound. I think there is nothing; and there being nothing,
and the New York decision obviously not having been given
its form for the purpose of evading this court, I think we
should respect and affirm it, if we do not dismiss the case.
What the plaintiff claims is really property, a right in rcin.
It is called contract merely to bring it within the contract
clause of the Constitution. It seems to me a considrable
extension of the power to determine for ourselves What the
contract is, which we have assumed when it is alleged that the
obligation of a contract has been impaired, to say that we will
make the same independent determination when it is alleged
that property is taken without due compensaition. But it
seems to me that it does not help the argument. The rule
adopted as to contract is simply a rule to prevent an evasion
of the constitutional limit to the power of the States, and, it
seenms to me, should not be extended to a case like this. Bearing in mind that, as I have said, the plaintiff's rights, however
expressed, are wholly a construction of flip (',,rts.
I cannot

OCTu)mER 1rElIX,

1904.

HOLMES, J., dissenting.

197 U. S.

believe that whenever the Fourteenth Amendment or Article I, section 10, is set up we are free to go behind the local
decisions on a matter of land law, and, on the ground that we
decide what the contract is, declare rights to exist which we
should think ought to be implied from a dedication or location
if we were the local courts. I cannot believe that we are at
liberty to create rights over the streets of Massachusetts, for
instance, that never have been recognized there. If we properly may do that, then I am wrong in my ass'umption that if
the New York Courts originally had declared that the laying
out of a public way conferred no private rights we should
have had nothing to say. But if I am right, if we are bound
by local decisions as to local rights in real estate, then we
equally are bound by the distinctions and the limitations of
those,rights declared by the local courts. If an exception were
established in the case of a decision which obviously was intended to evade constitutional limits, I suppose I may assume
that such an evasion would not be imputed to a judgment
which four Justices of this court think right.
As I necessarily have dealt with the mnerits of the case for
the purpose of presenting my point, I will add one other consideration. Sluppose that the plaintiff has an easement and
that it has )eeu imnpaired, bearing in mind that his damage is
in resl)ect of light and air, not access, and is inflicted for the
benefit of public travel, I should hesitate to say that in inflicting it the legislature went beyond the constitutional exercise of the police power. To a certain and to an appreciable
xueClit the legislature may alter the laA of nuisance, although

pro)erty is affected. To a certain and to an appreciable extent
the use of particular property may be limited without cornpensation. Not every such limitation, restriction or diminltion of value amounts to a taking in a constitutional sense. I
have a good deal of doubt whether it has been made to appear
that any right of the plvintiff has been taken or destroyed for
which compensation is necessary under the Constitution of the
United States. Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141; Meyer v.

MISSOU R,
197 U. S.

Stipulation as to Decree.

Richmond, 172 U. S. 82. See Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623,
668; Marchant v. Pennsylvania R. R., 153 U. S. 3S0; (am field
v. United States, 167 U. S. 518, 523; People v. D'Oench, 11I
N. Y. 359, 361; Sawyer v. Davis, 136 Massachusetts, 239;
Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53. Compare United States
v. Lynah, 188 U. S.445, 470.
I am authorized to say thatt the (,1i 1,0 JusriCei., Mu. Jus,
.and Mt. ,JUS'll(; P)ECKHAM coincur in. the foreWiii
going dissent.
TiCEM

MISS(')ITII r. NEBRASKA.
NEBRASIkA I. MISSOUR1.
IN
No. 5, Original.

o(jU1TY.

ON BILL AND CROSS BILL.

Submitted November 28, 1904.-Decided 1)ecomber 19, 1904.-Deree
entered March 5, 105.

Final Decree entered in accordance with opinion delivered I)c'cnber 19,
1904, reported in 196 U. S. 23, and stil)ulation of the parties.

THIS cause coming on for final (leree, in iursuanee of the
opinion of this coirl, filed herein on )ecembiher 19, 1901, and

iouiseI filed
the stipulation of the reslpectiv(e pairties by their
herein on January 30, 1905, which said sti)tilation is inwords
-and figures as follows, to wit:
"I the opillinil of tile court ill tile al)ove-entited cause,
the order andfinding of the court having beien iahe as follows:
'''It tppears from the recor(d that about Ithe year 1898 tile
county surveyors of Neiiialit County, Nebraska, al Athlis011
County, Missouri, inade surveys of the ab iidoneI Ibeid of the
Missouri River, aseertained lie location of the original banks
on either side, and to soiie extei,i iarke(d the midhlie of the
ol channel. If the two States will agree, upon these surveys
VoL. cxcvwu-37

