OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellant.

197 U. S.

STILLMAN v. COMBE..
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No, 174.

Argued March 10, 13, 1905.-Decided April 3, 1905.

All the parties to an action in the United States Circuit Court, to determine title to land, united in an agreement that judgment be entered in
favor of two of the parties who were to convey the property to a purchaser and to deposit the purchase price in a bank to the credit of arbitrators, who were to determine the exact rights of all the parties and
distribute the fund accordingly; judgment was entered and never appealed from or otherwise attacked. Held that: The parties in whose
favor judgment isentered are not trustees of the court, nor is the purchase price received by them a fund of, or under the control of the court;
and a suit brought against them to compel them to account for the
purclase money is not ancillary to the original action and the final
judgment rendered therein, and jurisdiction of the Circuit Court cannot
be maintained on that ground alone.
The appeal to this court on the ground that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction by a defendant who had not appeared generally is not affected
by the fact that one of the defendants has appealed to the Circuit Court
of Appeals.

TIHIE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John A. Carver and Mr. James M. Beck for appellant:
The sole ground of jurisdiction was that the case was ancillary to the action at law; as the United States Circuit Court
is of statutory and limited jurisdiction the presumption must
always be that the court is without jurisdiction, unless the
contrary affirmatively -appears from the record. Turner v.
Banc, 4 DalI. 8; Bors v. Preston, -111 U. S. 252; Mansfield &c.
R. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 383; Lehigh &c.Co. v. Kelly, 160
U. S. 327, 337. The appellant has not waived his right to
object to the jurisdiction, by having served an -answer after
his plea to the jurisdiction under a limited appearance has been
overruled. Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476; So. Pac. Co. v.
Denton, 146 U. S. 202; Mexican R,Co. v. Pinlcney, 149 U. S.194.

STILLMAN v. COMBE.
197 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

A suit is ancillary when supplemental to, and connected ' ith,
a previous suit so as to form an incident to, and substantially
continues it. Barrow v. Hunton, 99 U. S. 80; Marshallv. Holmes,
141 U. S. 589, 597; Raphael v. Trask, 194 U. S. 272, 278.
Ancillary suits fall into two general classes: Where the court
has possession of a fund derived from the previous litigation.
Where the court is asked to take some action with reference to
a previous judgment or decree rendered by it or to an action
at law still pending and undetermined, either to assist in carrying the previous judgment into effect or to correct or modify
the judgment. None of those elements exist in this case.
In this case there was no jurisdiction at law or in equity
and the title vested in Stillman and Carson was not a trust.
Mr. Fred BeaU and Mr. J. D. Childs, with whom Mr. C. L.
Bates was on the brief, for appellees:
In order to constitute a consent judgment, it is not necessary
that the agreement to enter it by consent should be filed as a
paper in the cause, or brought to the attention of the cour.t,
or made to appear in any manner -upon the record. The consent of parties is a fact to be proved, like any other fact.
Campbell v. Railroad Co., 1 Woods, 368.
The agreement and judgment created an express, active,
special trust; Fort Brown Reservation was designated as the
trust estate; defendants Stillman and Carson were constituted
the trustees; the title to the trust estate was by the consent
judgment vested in the trustees; the agreement declared the
trust, defined its purpose, which was to convert the trust
estate into money, by conveying it to the United States, collecting the purchase price, and depositing it to the credit of arbitrators, to be disbursed according to the rights of the parties.
Salinasv. Stillman, 66 Fed. Rep. 677; Carsonv. Combe, 86 Fed.
Rep. 202; Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. § 1159; Perry on Trusts, §§ 18,
24, 81, 82, 448; Lewin on Trusts and Trustees, *569 *108.
The Circuit Court in which the conscnt judginonIt was repdered is vested wit h ancillary jurisdiction to enteltain this suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

in equity for the purposes of granting to the other parties to
the former suit and their privies'equitable relief against the
unjust, inequitable and fraudulent use of that judgment and
the process of the court that rendered it, and to prevent the
violation of said contract, and the breach of said trust, and to
determine the conflicting claims of the parties to said fund,
and to compel appellant to account for the trust fund converted by him and pay the same over to the parties found to be
entitled to it, and to secure to the parties the fruits, benefits and
advantages of the proceedings and judgment in the former
suit, and to regulate the operation of said judgment by engrafting a trust upon it. Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276,
287; Pacific R. Co. v. Missouri P. 1?. Co., 11 U. S.505; New
Orleans v. Fisher, 180 U. S. 185, 199; Pennock v. Coe, 23 How.
117; Clark V. Mathewson, 12 Pet. 164; Dunn v. Clark, 8 Pet. 1;
Jones v. Andrews, 10 Wall. 327; Root v. Woolworth, 150 U. S.
401; Freeman 7r. Howe, 24 How. 450; Milwaukee &c. R. R. Co.
v. Soutter, 2 Wall. 609, 645; Hatch v. Dorr, 4 McLean, 112;
Babcock v. Millard, Fed. Cas. 699; Dunlap v. Stetson, 4 Mason,
349; Cortez Co. v. Tannhauser,9 Fed. Rep. 226; Bank v. Leland,
Fed. Cas. 9452; Thompson v. McReynolds, 29 Fed. Rep. 657;
Lamb v. Ewing, 54 Fed. Rep. 272; Bank v. Turnbull, 16 Wall.
190; Carey v. H. & T. C. Ry. Co., 161 U. S.113.
Besides this suit is ancillary, and the court has possession of
and gave the orders which secured the res, this, therefore,
draws to the lower, court all controversies concerning the res.
Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S. 614;Hayes v. Pratt, 147 U. S. 570;
Green v. Creighton, 23 How. 90; Chambers v.Cannon, 62 Texas,
293; Eckford v. Knox, 67 Texas, 205; Patton v. Gregory, 21
Texas, 513.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court, upon
the singe question of the jurisdiction of that court. The jurisdiction was sustained de benc, on ,ippeal from a preliminary

STILLMAN v. COMBE.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

injunction, by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 86 Fed. Rep.
202; S.C., 29 C. C. A. 660. It is certified that urisdiction was
entertained solely upon the ground that this cause is ancillary
to an action at law and the final judgment rendered therein.
If that ground fails it is apparent from the record and is not
disputed that there is no other. To decide the case it is not
necessary to consider anything except the allegations of the
bill, and .alarge part of those may be laid on one side as not
material to the question here.
The purpose of the bill is to reach and distribute to the
parties found entitled to tho same the proceeds of a sale to the
United States of land which the 'defendants Stillman, the
appellant, and Carson, as administrator, recovered in che
above-mentioned action at law. The land was occupied without right by the United States as part of the Fort Brown
military reservation, and on March 3, 1885, Congress appropriated $160,000 to pay for the land and its use and occupation, but not until a complete title should be vested in the
United States, the full amount of the price to be paid directry
to the owners of the property. The next year certain claimants brought suit for the land, in a state court, against Colonel
Kellogg, the officer in cormfiand of the reservation. The suit
was removed to the Urited States Circuit Court, the United
States intervened, and for the purpose of settling the title set
up outstanding rights in third persons. Other known claimants, including Stillrnan-and Carson asadministrator, each of
whom claimed an undivided half, became or were made parties.
By the local practice the respective shares of the parties might
have been determined in the action as well as the principal
question of the right of all or some of them to recover from
Colonel Kellogg. But on July 13, 1887, most, although not
all,. of the claimants, including Stillman and Carson, made an
agreement on which tile jurisdiction in the present cause is
based.
This agreement recited thalt the ease was likely to be tried
the next (ldy, that it was tlprehended that un++less a perfect

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

title could be adjudged to some of the parties there was danger
of losing the appropriation, that in the time available there was
little chance of an accurate adjudication of all rights, that it
was primarily desirable to have a judgment which would be
satisfactory to the department at Washington, and secondarily
to agree on a method of working out the exact rights of the
parties, after judgment, conveyance to the Government by
those adjudicated to be owners and payment of the money.
It also recited the claims of others not parties to the agreement, and the belief of the contractors that those claims would
fail at the trial. Therefore it was agreed that the parties to
the contract would unite in procuring a judgment for the whole
property in favor of Stillman and Carso.n administrator, that
upon its being procured a conveyance Should be made by the
said owners to the Government and a warrant for the price
upon the Treasurer of the United States obtained from the
Secretary of War. After a preliminary payment the rest of the
money was to be deposited in a named bank in Galveston to the
credit of three arbitrators, also named. The parties to the
agreement submitted their claims to these arbitrators, with
somewhat blind provisions for substitution, and the arbitrators
were to give their checks upon the fund to those whom they
found entitled for the sums found due.
The next day after this agreement was made, on July 14,
1887, a verdict was rendered for Stillman and Carson administrator, one undivided half to each, and judgment was
entered upon the same, both, it is alleged, by consent of parties.
But the next steps contemplated by the agreement did not
follow as quickly as anticipated. Without any fault of Stillman and Carson they did not get their pay and deliver the deed
until April, 1895, nearly eight years later.

At that time,

according to Stillman's answer, at all events before June 14,
1897, when this bill was filed, according to the allegations of
the bill, one of the arbitrators named was dead, and another
refused to act, so that the arbitration agreed upon was impossible in its original form.

It also appears from the decree

STILLMAN v. COMBE.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that Stillman had expended large sums in collecting the money
from the United States. The bill alleges that Stillman and
Carson fraudulently appropriated to their own use the whole
fund of $160,000 received from the United States. It further
alleges that they are conspiring fraudulently to prevent a
decision by arbitration, as agreed, and fraudulently are using
the judgment to deprive the true, owners of their rights. On
these allegations the bill seeks not to have the arbitration carried out but to obtain a distribution of the fund by the court.
We are somewhat at a loss to add anything to a statement
of the case to show how utterly without foundation is the
claim of jurisdiction over the bill as an ancillary suit. The
bill does not seek either to disturb the judgment or to have
anything done towards carrying it out. The judgment was
satisfied, and the functions of the court in the former case were
at an end when the land was recovered. Stillman and Carson
cannot be using it fraudulently or in any other way. Its uses
all are over. The court had nothing to do with the subsequent
sale of the land, and still less with the distribution of the
purchase money when the sale was made. There neither was
nor ought to'have been any fund in court. It may be that the
judgment would not have been the same but for the agreement
of some of the parties upon those matters. But the bill does

not allege that it was obtained by fraud, and, as we have said,
does not seek to set it aside. The agreement no doubt put
Stillman and Carson in a position of trust, but, no matter to
whom it was known, it did not make Stillman and Carson
trustees of the court, as they are called in the bill. It did not
extend the duties of the court beyond the recovery of the land
to seeing that the parties who recovered it, in case of a subsequent sale, should pay over in due proportion to those
equitably entitled. The parties gave up their right to have
the court decide who had rights in the land and the extent of
their shares, and substituted a contract and 'a d(ecision out of
court. They still rely upon the contract, anlIthey msust he
left to their remedy upon it.

Oc(FOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

It is suggested that the affirnance by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of an interlocutory decree appointing a receiver and
issuing a preliminary injunction against Stillman and Carson
using the judgmerit for the purpose of depriving the other
parties in interest of their rights in the $160,000, in some way
prejudices the present appeal. It is enough to say that the
action of the Circuit Court of Appeals was on the appeal of
Carson alone, Stillman not having appeared in the action.
Decree reversed, with directions to make restitution to the
appellant and to dismiss the bill.

H. HACKFELD AND COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 164. Argued March 6,1905.-Decided April 3,1905.

Section 10 of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1084, which imposes upon
one who has brought immigrants into the United States not permitted
to land here, the duty of returning them to the place from whence they
came, with a penalty in case the duty is neglected, is a highly penal
statute and must be strictly construed; the word "neglect" cannot be
construed so as to make the shipowner or master an insurer of the absolute return of the immigrant at all hazards, but it does require him to
take every precaution to prevent the immigrant from escaping and holds
him to the care and diligence required by the circumstances.
Where in an action under § 10 of the act of March 3, 1891, the Attorney
General and the other party have stipulated the facts as to the escape
of immigrants and that the escape did not occur by reason of any negligence or want of proper care on the part of the master or officers of the
vessel, the court cannot regard the stipulation as to lack of negligence
a 1 1ere concnlusion of law and find thalt there was negligence on the cvi(lentiary
facts as stipulated. It will presume that the Attorney General
has (one his duty and not stipulated away any of the rights of the prosecution, and tle defendant is entitled to have the case tried upon the assumpt11 o0 Ion1it the ulltinate faut of n1k of negligence stipulated into the
establish,'d is well as the specific facts recited.
recood N':Is

