OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

should not apply to the Philippine Islands. This is the section
giving force and effect to the Constitution of the United States,
not locally inapplicable, within the organized Territories. The
case simply holds that as Congress did not extend the right
of trial by jury to the Philippine Islands, and had not so
incorporated them as to make the provision apply by implication, the right did not exist. The cases of Steamer Coquitlam,
163 U. S.346, a nd Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 486, are
too obviously inapplicable to require comment.
I do not dissent from the conclusion of the court in this case,
but I do dissent from the proposition that Congress may not
deal with Territories as it pleases, until it has seen fit to extend
the provisions of the Constitution to them, which, once done,
in my view, is irrevocable. I regret that the disputed doctrine
of incorporation should have been made the mainstay of the
opinion of the court, when the case might so easily have been
disposed of upon grounds which would have evoked no utterance of disapproval.

KNAPP v. LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN SOUTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 251. Argued February 28, 1905.-Deeided April 10, 1905.

The Circuit Court of the United States has no original jurisdiction to issue
a writ of mandamus at the instance of the Interstate Commerce Commission against a railroad company to compel it to make a report of the
mattern and things specified in § 20 of the act of Congresb to regulate
conmerce.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

KNAPP v. LAKE SilORE RAILWAY CO.
197 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in. Error.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General McReynolds and Mr. L. A.

Shaver, Solicitor for the Interstate Commerce Commission,
for plaintiffs in error:

Under the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, which defined
the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts of the United States, and
other similar acts passe(l prior thereto, a Circuit Court has
jurisdiction of an original proceeding seeking relief by mandamus.
While this proposition is undoubtedly out of harmony with
the opinions of this court in a number of cases arising under
the judiciary act of 1789, 1 Stat. 73, and the act of 1875,
18 Stat. 470, the question has not been directly passed
upon by this court in any case arising since the act of
March 3, 1887 defined the jurisdiction of United States courts.
That act repealed all laws and parts of laws in conflict with
its provisions. McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; McClung
v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598; Bath County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 245;
Graham v. Norton, 15 Wall. 427; County of Greene v. Daniel,

102 U. S. 187, 195; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 393;
Davenport v. County of Dodge, 105 U. S. 237; Louisiana v.
Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, 727; Smith v. Bourbon County, 127 If. S.
105, 112; High on Ex. Leg. Rein. § 589; Mystic Milling Co.
v. Chioago, M. & St. P. Railway Co. et al., 132 Fed. Rep. 289.

As to tho reasons why the courts should have jurisdiction
to issue mandamus see dissent of Bradley, J., in Rosenbaum
v. Bauer, 120 U. S. 459.
This court should not be bound by the decisions prior to
the act ol 1887 but should hold that under that act the Circuit
Court has authority to entertain any proceeding seeking remedy by mandamus. Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672;
Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, 459.
Congress has power to authorize a Circuit Court to issue
a mandamus in an original proceeding. Kendall v. United
States, 12 Peters, 522, 617; United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S.

378; Merrill on Mandamus, §217; High on Ex. Leg. Rem.
§ 589.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

197 U. S.

If no other statute conferred upon a CircuitCourt jurisdiction of an original proceeding for a mand'amus such juris(ition'
was given in cases where the writ is necessary to enforce orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission by the act to regulate
commerce, approved February 4, 1887, and the amendments
thereto. See § 20 and § 12 as amended March 2, 1889, and
February 10, 1891.
Mandamus is the only adequate remedy known to the law
by which a common cairier can be forced to report. Common
carriers have assumed public functions and the duties imposed
upon them by statute may properly be enforced by mandanmus.
Merrill on Mandamus, § 1325; Mobile and Ohio R. R. Co. v.
Wisdom, 5 Heiskell (Tenn.), 125.
The purpose of the act to secure Federal supervision of interstate commerce can only be made reasonably effective by
resort to Federal courts, and Congress (lid not intend the
Commission to rely upon state courts to secure enforcement of
its orders if, indeed, such courts have power to entertain applicatins therefor.
As to whether the criminal prosecutions provided for by
the act were intended to secure cempliance with those sections
wherein no specific remedy was given it is well settled that
a renledy by mandamus is not defeated by the existence of a
punitive statute. Merrill on Mandamus, § 53; High Ex. Leg.
Rem. §§ 18, 20. The purpose of Congress was to secure proper
information for the use of the Commission and the public.
The effective way of carrying out such purpose isnot by means
of a criminal prosecution. Mandamus is the only instrumentality which can be safely relied upon to produce the
desired result.
In nearly all original proceedings seeking writs of mandamus
to compel carriers to file annual reports presented to the
Federal courts in the year 1897 the carriers complied with the
orders before they were heard and the suits were dismissed.
1. C. C. v. Chicago, K. & S. R. R. Co., 81 Fed. 'Rep. 783;
I. C. C. v. Seaboard Ry. Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 563, 566; S. C., 85

KNAPP v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Fed. Rep. 955. In none of the cases so instituted was the
jurisdiction of the court to entertain the proceeding called in
question.
Mr. George C. Greene for defendant in error:
A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction,
under the general statute. defining its jurisdiction, to issue a
writ of mandamus as an original proceeding, nor at all except
when necessary to the exercise of its jurisdiction. Rev. Stat.
§ 716; McIntire v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504; Bath Co. v. Avery,
13 Wall. 244; United States v. Kendall, 12 Peters, 608.
Jurisdiction has not been conferred upon the Circuit Court
by the act to regul'te commerce to issue the writ of mandamus applied for in this case.
The method of procurement of information by the Commission is clearly defined in § 12 and it confers no authority upon
the Commission to require or compel a carrier to expend its
time, labor and money in preparing and laying before the Commission reports, statements, tables or computations upon hubjeets upon which the Commission may deem it necessary' to
have information. Under that section it may only obtain,
such information by examination of witnesses and inspection
of books and documents or depositions taken as is provided
in that section.
Section 12 confers no jurisdiction upon any court. It merely
declares the dtity of district attorneys. It requires them to
institute in the proper court all necessary proceedings for the
enforcement of the act. The "necessary proceedings" intended were such proceedings as were authorized and in accordance with existing law, and they were to be instituted in
the proper courts; i. e., courts having jurisdiction to entertain
them. Section 16 of the act has no application to this case.
This case is not an application to the Circuit Court sitting
in equity. Nor is it an application by the Commission or person interested in the order. It is a suit at law in which the
United States is party plaintiff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 V. S.

Section 1 of judiciary act of 1887, amends § 1 of the act
of 1875, by changing the amount of the sum in dispute from
1$500 to $2,000, but in no respect changes the law as to the
questions here involved. So that, what was the law under
the act of 1875, as declared by this court in Rosenbaum v.
Bauer, 120 U . S. 450, is the law today. And see Indiana v.
L. E. & W. Ry. Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 3; Fuller v. Aylesworth, 75
Fed. Rep. 694, 699; Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166.
That Congress did not understand that it had conferred
jurisdiction generally upon the Circuit Courts to issue writs
of mandamus is shown by its enactments specially authorizing
them to do so in certain specified cases. See § 3, act of
January 7, 1888, and amending act of March 2, 1889.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
Petition for mandamus filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio by the Interstate Commerce Commissioners against the Lake Shore and
Michigan Southern Railway Company. The railway company moved to dismiss the petition on the ground that the
court had no original jurisdiction to issue a writ of mandamus.
The motion was granted and the writ dismissed. A certificate
was duly made showing that a question of jurisdiction was in
issue, and recites that the court acted not only on the motion
of the railroad but on its own motion in dismissing the petition
for want of jurisdiction.
The petition alleges that the railroad company is a corporation created by the laws of the States of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Illinois, and has its principal place of business in the State of Ohio, and is a common
carrier engaged in interstate commerce, and as such is subject
to the provisions of the act of Congress to regulate commerce.
That under section 20 of said act the Interstate Commerce
Commission is authorized to require any common carrier Subject to the act to make reports of certain matters and things,

KNAPPv. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and in pursuance thereof the Commission made an order on
the third of June, 1903, prescribing the manner and form in
which said reports should be made and the contents thereof,
and directed each common carrier to file the same on or before
the fifteenth. A copy of the order was served on the railroad
company, but the company failed and neglected to make out
and return a report in full, in that it failed to set forth in the
report made and returned by it the data or information called
for, namely, "the tonnage, ton-mileage, earnings and receipts
per ton per mile on grain, hay, cotton, live stock, dressed
meats, anthracite coal, bituminous coal, and lumber carried
in carload lots; and that said data or information required by
the Commission to be given in said report by respondent is
necessary to enable the Commission to perform the duties and
carry out the objects for which it was created, in the interest
of the public, and that promptness by carriers in furnishing
the same on or before the fifteenth day of September of each
year, as required by the Commission, is essential for the purpose, among others, of enabling the Commission to make a
full and complete annual report to Congress, which, by sec-:
tion 21 of said act to regulate commerce, is required to be
transmitted to said body on or before December 1 of each year."
It is also alleged that there is no adequate remedy except
that afforded by mandamus.
It is admitted that under the judiciary act of 1789, 1 Stat.
73, and the act of 1875, as construed by this court, a Circuit
Court of the United States has no jurisdiction of an original
proceeding seeking relief by mandamus. And counsel, not
to minimize the admission, quotes the cases in which that has
been laid down and the text books which have expressed the
doctrine as settled. But, it is suggested, that under the kct
of 1887, 24 Stat. 552, a different ruling should be made. No
change in language is pointed out which would justify such
change in ruling, but we are urged to that radical course in
view of the modern development of proceedings by mandamus,
and the very great importance of the remedy thereby. We

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

are not impressed by the invocation. We are unable to understand how language conferring jurisdiction on a court can take
a new meaning from the circumstances suggested. Difference
in remedies is conspicuous in our jurisprudence, and some
remedies are of that nature that they can be enforced only
under exceptional circumstances and under special grants of
power. Of this kind is mandamus, and if Congress had intended by the act of 1887 to confer power on the Circuit Courts
to issue mandamus in an original proceeding Congress would
not have employed the language which had been construed
from the foundation of the Government not to give such
jurisdiction. We adhere, therefore, to the prior cases.
2. Congress has undoubtedly power to authorize a Circuit
Court to issue a mandamus in an original proceeding. Kendall
v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; United States v. Schurz, 102
U. S. 378. But has Congress done so, as contended, by sections 12 and 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended?
Under section 12 the Commission is given the authority to
inquire into the management of the business of common carriers subject to the act, and have the right to obtain from the
carriers full and complete information to enable it to perform
its duties. It is also authorized to enforce the provisions of
th 'act. By section 20 the Commission may require annual
reports and fix the time and prescribe the manner in which
such reports shall be made. And it is made the duty of any
district attorney of the United States, to whom the Commission may apply, to institute in the proper court and to prosecute under the direction of the Attorney General all necessary
proceedings for the enforcement of the provisions of this act.
It is hence contended that the power of the Commission to
require the report stated in the petition is undoubted, and
having power to order the report to ,be made the Commission
has the power to enforce obedience to the order.
But in what way? Manifestly only in such way as the courts
have jurisdiction to give. All powers are given in view of that
jurisdiction, and the amendments of the Interstate Commerce

KNAPP v. LAKE SIORE RAILWAY CO.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Act are so framed. Jurisdiction to issue mandamus is conferred
by section 6, to enforce the filing or publishing by a common
carrier of its schedules or tariffs of rates, fares and charges.
And such jurisdiction is also given to the Circuit Courts and
District Courts upon the relation of any person or persons,
firm or corporation, alleging a violation of any of the provisionsof the act which prevents the relator from having interstate
traffic moved on terms as favorable as any other shipper. The
remedy is expressly made cumulative of the other remedies
provided by the act. It is clear, therefo;'., when Congress
intended to give the power to issue mandamus it expressed
that intention explicitly. Such power cannot be inferred from
the grant of authority to the Commission to enforce the act
or from the direction to district attorneys or the Attorney
General to institute "all necessary proceedings for the enforcement of the provisions" af the act (section 12). The proceedings meant are, as we have said, those within the jurisdiction of the court. And special remedies are given. For
instance, by section 16 a summary proceeding in equity is
authorized, and the form of the ultimate order of the court
may be that of a "writ of injunction or other proper process,
mandatory or otherwise."
Without attempting now to define the extent of that section, we may say, it seems adequate to enable the Commission
to enforce any order it is authorized to make.
Judgment a/firmed.
MR. JUSTICE HIAIRLAN

dissented.

