OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

In this case the position of other parties to this litigation
has most materially changed, as-has already been shown (the
particulars of which need not be repeated), while the plaintiff
in error has been also guilty of extreme negligence even in
attempting to discover what he alleges are facts. We are
satisfied that the plaintiff in error is estopped from now contesting the will, and that great injustice would result from the
overturning of the principle adjudged in so many cases.
We are of opinion the case has been rightly decided, and
the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia is
Affirmed.

KEHRER v. STEWART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 152.

Argued January 24, 25, 1905.-Decided February 27, 1905.

As a tax upon the seller of goods is a tax upon the goods themselves, and a
tax upon goods sold in one State delivered to a common carrier and consigned to the purchaser in another State is an illegal interference with
interstate commerce, a State cannot impose a privilege tax on agents of
packing houses as to meats shipped to him from another State merely for
distribution to purchasers from his principal; but where the Supreme
Court of the State has held that the tax is void as to interstate shipments
and applies only to the domestic business of -the agent in the ordinary
c6urse of trade, and all other such agents, whether of domestic or foreign
packing houses, are subject to the tax, that construction will be accepted
by this court as in reality a part of the statute itself, and the tax is within
the power of the State and is not as to his domestic business an interference with interstate commerce even though all of the goods sold by
an agent may be shipped to him from another State.
Nor is such a tax void because it is laid upon the agents themselves and
cannot be apportioned between the interstate and the domestic business
carried on by the same person.
While such a tax mnight not apply to an agent whose domestic business
was purely nominal and strictly incidental t6 his interstate business,
it does apply to one whose domestic business is a definite, although a
minor, part of his business in the State as the application of the tax
does not depend on the greater or less magnitude of the business.

KEHRER v. STEWART.
197 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Where such a tax is imposed alike upon the managing agent both of domestic and foreign houses, it does not deny. to the agent of a foreign house
the equal protection of the laws.
A State has the right to classify occupations and impose different taxes
upon different occupations. The necessity for, and the amount of, the
tax are exclusively within the control of the state legislature, and, in the
absence of discrimination against citizens of other States, its determination in regard thereto is not open to criticism in this court.
Such a tax does not impair the obligation of, or affect, any contract previously made between the principal and the agent. The power of taxation
overrides anyagreement of an employ6 to serve for a specific sum.

was an action by Kehrer against the tax collector of
the county of Fulton in Georgia to recover back a tax of $200
with interest and costs, paid to Stewart under protest, such
tax having been assessed against Kehrer under the general
tax law of the State, of December 21, 1900, which provided
that there should be assessed and collected "upon all agents
of packing houses doing business in this State, two hundred
dollars in each county where said business is carried on."
Petitioner charged the law to be a violation-of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Defendant demiurred to the petition, and this demUrrer
being overruled, a writ of error was taken from the Supreme
Court, which reversed the judgment of the court below in
overruling the demurrer. 115 Georgia, 184. Plaintiff thereupon amended his petition, insisting that the tax denied him
due process of law as well as the equal protection of the law,
impaired the obligation of his contract with the firm, and was
also in conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution
of the United States. The defendant demurred to the amended
petition. The court sustained the'demurrer and the Supreme
Court affirmed its action. 117 Georgia, 969.
THIS

Mr. Alexander W. Smith for plaintiff in error:

The act is obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment.

Butch-

ers' Union v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 476; Allyeyer v.

Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578.

The act practically singles out

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

197 U. S.

the manager of Nelson Morris & Co. it is limited in any
event to chief clerks and managers and arbitrarily and unreasonably selects this class of persons while other persons
with similar privileges are not affected. The act has been
construed by the state court to impose a tax on the occupation of agents of packing houses whether the business is
wholly interstate or wholly domestic. The act is silent as to
any distinction between the tax on the agent of a principal
doing interstate business and of one doing a domestic business.
The state court holds the act covers both. The legislature
never undertook to classify agents for the conduct of domestic
business as a separate class from agents for the conduct of
interstate business. Each would be an agent, of a packing
house. Each would be in the same class. Each would have
the same occupation. One must pay the tax-the other must
hot. Thus analyzing the construction of the act by the Supreme Court of Georgia, it is plainly violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. -.. 339; Barbier v. Connelly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356; Gulf, Col. & S. F Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 168;
Railroad Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 76.
The act in this case is nothing more than a revenue law.
Its caption so declares it, and the court below so treats it.
Linton v. Childs, 105 Georgia, 567, 573; In re Yot Sang, 75 Fed.
Rep. 984; Fraser v. MeConway, 82 Fed. Rep. 257, 259; Randolph v. Builders' & Painters' Supply Co., .106 Alabama, 501;
N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Smith, 41.S, W. Rep. V80; St. Louis &c.
Ry. v. Williams, 49 Arkansas; 492; Denver &c. Ry. v. Outcalt,
2 Colo. App. 395; Atchison &c. Ry. v. Baty, 6 Nebraska, 37;
O'Connell v. Lumber Co., 71 N. W. Rep. 449; Jacksonville v.
Carpenter, 77 Wisconsin, 28S; State v. Dering, 94 Wisconsin,
588; Pearson v. Portland, 69 Maine, 278; Burrows v. Brooks,
71 N. W. Rep. 460; Middleton v. Middleton, 54 N. J. Eq. 692;
State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va. 179; Kuhn v. Common Council, 70
Michigan, 538; State v. Hinm an, 65 N. H. 105; State v. Penwyer,
65 N. II. 116.

KEHRER v. STEWART.
197 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The act is void as a "burden upon, and a regulation of interstate commerce. Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622;
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Lyng v. Michigan, 135
U. S.161, 166; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S.650; Pullman Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, and cases cited; Pullman Co.
v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 172,
183; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 647; Asher v. Texas, 128
U. S. 129; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 477;
Ratterman v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 127 U' S. 411; McCallVv.
California, 136 U. S.110; Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157
U. S. 582; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 234; Stockard
v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 34; Atlantic Company v. Philadelphia,190
U. S. 162.
The purpose underlying the phraseology of the act is to
indirectly reach non-resident packers who necessarily do
business througb agents while local houses escape. For history of legislation in this respect see Stewart v. Beef Co., 93
Georgia, 12.
Mr. John C. Hdrt for defendant in error:
The act as construed by the state court is not violative of
the constitution of Georgia. The power of the General Assembly of Georgia to classify for the purpose of taxation is unquestionable. Nor is there anything in the constitution of
Georgia which inhibits the taxation of certain vocations or
occupations and to exenipt, by failing to tax, other occupations. Cooley on Tax., 384; 1 Desty on Tax., 96; IVilliams v.
Fears, 110 Georgia, 594; Cutliff v. Mayor, 60 Georgia, 598;
Shepard v. Commissioners, 59 Georgia, 536; Davis c( Co. v.
Mayor, 64 Georgia, 129; Singer Mfy. Co. v. Wright, 33 Fed.
Rep. 126; American Harrow Co. v. Shaffer, 68 Fed. Rep. 750;
Mutual Reserve Life Ass'n v. Augusta, 109 Georgia, 79.

The act is not violative of the Fourteenth Aniendment.
The object of the Amendment was to preclude the several
States from discriminating against citizens of other States.
Cooley on Tax., 99; 1 Desty on Tax., 223; Slaughter House

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

Case, 16 Wall. 36. The specific tax levied upon persons engaged in the conduct of a particular business is in no sense
obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment. Williams v. Fears,
110 Georgia, 584. The Constitution imposes no restriction
on the States in the levy of taxes other than that there shall
be no discrimination against citizens of other States.
The contention of the plaintiff in error that the act in question deprives him of his liberty and property without due
process of,law is answered by an unbroken line of authorities
to the effect that due process of law within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment is secured if the laws operate on all
alike and do not subject the individual to an arbitrary exercise of the powers of government. Davidson v. New Orleans,
96 U. S. 105; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; Hager v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 709.
The statute is not an illegal interference with interstate
commerce. It does not fall within Caldwell v. North Carolina,
187 U. S. 622. See Stone v. State, 117 Georgia, 292. The
plaintiff in error was engaged in domestic as well as interstate
business.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arose upon the following state of facts:

Nelson

Morris & Co., citizens of Illinois, were engaged, in the city
of Chicago, in the business of packing meats for sale and
consumption, and also had a place of business in Atlanta,
Georgia, where they sold their products at wholesale, having
in their employ several clerks and helpers, one of whom was
the petitioner, who was employed as chief clerk and manager
at a salary of $25 per week. The firm did not have anywhere
within the State of Georgia any packing house for slaughtering, dressing, curing, packing cr manufacturing the products
of any animals for food or commercial use, but took orders,
which were transmitted and filled at Chicago, the meats sent

KEHRER v. STEWART.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

to Atlanta and there distributed in pursuance of such orders.
Certain meats were also shipped from Chicago to Atlanta
without a previous sale or contract to sell. These were stored
in the Atlanta house of the firm in the original packages, and
were kept and held for sale, in the ordinary course of trade,
as domestic business. They were offered for sale to such
customers as might require them, and until sold were stored
and preserved and remained the property of the firm.
1. It was admitted by the Supreme Court of Georgia in its
opinion, and by both parties hereto, that a tax upon the seller
of goods is a tax upon the goods themselves, Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; and
that a tax upon goods sold in another State, delivered to a
common carrier and consigned to the purchaser in the State
of Georgia, was an illegal interference with interstate commerce. Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Norfolc
&c. Ry. Co.,v. Sims, 191 U. S. 441; Stone v. State, 117 Georgia,
292. It was therefore held that the tax, so far as applied to
meats sold in Chicago and shipped to the petitioner in Georgia
for distribution, could not be supported; but that so far as
the petitioner was engaged in the business of selling directly
to customers in Atlanta, he was engaged in carrying on an
independent business as a wholesale dealer, and was liable to
the tax.
This decision was correct. In carrying on the domestic
business, petitioner was indistinguishable from the ordinary
butcher, who slaughters cattle and sells their carcasses, and
in principle it made no difference that the cattle were slaughtered in Chicago and their carcasses sent to Atlanta for sale and
consumption in the ordinary course of trade. Upon arrival
there they became a part of the taxable property of the State.
It made no difference whence they came and to whom they
were ultimately sold, or whether the domestic and interstate
business were carried on in the same or different buildings.
In this particular the case is covet'ed by that of Brown v.
Houston, 114 U. S. 622, wherein it was held that coal mined
VOL 0XOVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

in Pennsylvania and sent by water to New Orleans, to be sold
in open market there on account of the owners in Pennsylvania,
became intermingled with the general property of the State,
and liable to taxation under its laws, although it might have
been after arrival sold from the vessel on which the transportation was made, without being landed, and for the purpose of
being taken out of the country on a vessel bound to a foreign
port. The same principle was applied in Emert v. Missouri,
156 U. S.296, in which a license tax upon peddlers of goods,
which made no distinction between residents and products
of the State and of those of other States, was sustained. To
the same effect is Machine Company v. Gage, 100 U. S.676.
The case is readily distinguishable from that of Crutcher v.
Kentucky, 141 U. S.47, wherein a state law requiring a license
from agencies of foreign express companies was held to be a
regulation of interstate commerce, so far as applied to a corporation of -another State engaged in interstate business, although as incidental thereto it did some local business by
carrying goods from one point to another in the State of
Kentucky. The court observed that while the local business
was probably quite as much for the accommodation of the
people of the State as for the advantage of the company, this
did not obviate the objection to the tax; that the regulations
as to license and capital stock were imposed as conditions ofi
the companies carrying on the business of interstate commerce, which was manifestly the principal object of its organization. "These regulations are clearly a burden and a restriction upon the commerce. Whether intended as such or
not they operate as such. But taxes or license fees in good
faith imposed exclusively on express business carried on wholly
within the State would be open to no such objection."
The same doctrine was applied to telegraph companies in
Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, wherein a general
license tax upon the telegraph company was held to affect
its entire business, interstate as well as domestic or internal,
and was unconstitutional. This case, however, must be read

KEHRER v. STEWART.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

in connection with Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Charleston,
153 U. S. 692, wherein we held that a license tax upon a
telegraph company on business done exclusively within the
State, and not including any business done to or from points
without the State, and not including any business done for
the Government of the United States, was an exercise of the
police power, and not an interference with interstate commerce. In line with this case is that of Ratterman v. Western
Union Tel. Company, 127 U. S. 411, in which a percentage tax
assessed upon receipts of telegraph companies partly derived
from interstate commerce and partly from commerce within
the State, and which were capable of separation, but were
returned and assessed in gross, and without separation or
apportionment, was held invalid in proportion to the extent
that such receipts were derived from interstate commerce, but
valid as applied to receipts from messages within the State.
To the same effect is Western Union Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132
U. S. 472.
So, if the stock of a transportation company be taxed by
taking as a bas is of assessment such proportion of its capital
stock as the number of miles of railroad over which its cars
are run within the State bear to the whole number of miles
over which its cars are run throughout the United States, such
assessment does not impinge upon the power of Congress.
Pullman's Car Company v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18. The
case is still simpler, if the tax be imposed in terms upon the
domestic commerce, seeing that the corporation is free to
abandon *the business taxed if it sees fit. Pullman Company
v. Adams, 189 U. 5. 420; Allen v. Pullman Company, 191
U. S. 171.
The only difficulty in this case arises from the fact that the
tax is laid not in terms upon the domestic business, nor upon
the gross receipts or .profits which might be apportioned between interstate and domestic business, but is a gross sum
imposed upon the managing agent of packing houses, regardless of the fact that the greater portion of the business may

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

be interstate in its character. This contingency, however, is
met by the case of Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650, wherein
a license tax imposed upon express companies doing business
in Florida had been construed by the Supreme Court of that
State as applying solely to business of the company done
within the State, and not to its interstate business. Accepting this construction of the state statute as in reality part of
the statute itself, we held that it did not in any way violate
the Federal Constitution. The statute was sustained, notwithstanding the fact that ninety-five per cent of the business
was interstate in its character, and only five per cent consisted
of carrying goods and freight between points within the State
of Florida. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, was distinguished as one which prohibited the agent of a foreign
express company from carrying on business at all in that
State without first obtaining a license from the State. Said
the court: "It has never been held, however, that when the
business of the company which is wholly within the State, is
but (not) a mere incident to its interstate business, such fact
would furnish any obstacle to the valid taxation by the State
of the business of the company which is entirely local. So
long as the regulation as to the license or taxation does not
refer to and is not imposed upon the business of the company
which is interstate, there is no interference with that commerce by the state statute."
So, in the case under consideration it was expressly held
by the Supreme Court of Georgia that that part of the Nelson
Morris & Company's business, which consisted in shipping
goods to Atlanta to fill orders previously received, the goods
being delivered in accordance with such orders, was interstate commerce, not subject to taxation within the State, and
that, so far as applied to that business, the tax was void.
Accepting this construction of the Supreme Court, we think
the act, so far as applied to domestic business, is valid. The
record does not show what proportion of such business is interstate and what proportion is domestic, although it is con-

KEHRER v. STEWART.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ceded that most of the business is interstate in its character.
If the amount of domestic business were purely nominal, as,
for instance, if the consignee of a shipment made in Chicago
upon an order filled there, refused the goods shipped, and the
only way of disposing of them was by sales at Atlanta, this
might be held to be strictly incidental to an interstate business, and in reality a part of it, as we held in Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; but if the agent carried on a definite,
though a minor, part of his business in the State by the sales
of meat there, he would not escape the payment of the tax,
since the greater or less magnitude of the business cuts no
figure in the imposition of the tax. There could be no doubt
whatever that, if the agent carried on his interstate and
domestic business in two distinct establishments, one would be
subject and the other would no be subject to the tax, and in
our view it makes no differenc'ethat the two branches of business are carried on in the same establishment. The burden of
proof was clearly upon the plaintiff to show that the domestic
business was a mere incident to the interstate business.
2. The act in question does not deny to the petitioner the
equal protection of the laws, as the tax is imposed alike upon
the managing agent both of domestic and of foreign houses.
In its first opinion in this case the Supreme Court held that the
tax was a vocation or occupation tax, and that it was not
designed to apply to every agent or employ6 of the company,
but only to the managing or superintending agent, who is the
alter ego of the principal by whom he is employed. There is
no discrimination in favor of the agents of domestic houses,
and, while we may suspect that the act was primarily intended to apply to agents of ultra state houses, there is no
discrimination upon the face of the act, and none, so far as the
record shows, upon its practical administration. As we have
frequently held, the State has the right to classify occupations
hnd to impose different taxes upon different occupations.
Such has been constantly the practice of Congress under the
internal revenue laws. Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

261, 275. What the necessity is for such tax, and.upon what
occupations it shall be imposed, as well as the amount of the
imposition, are exclusively within the control of the state
legislature. So long as there is no discrimination against
citizens of other States, the amount and necessity of the tax
are not open to criticism here.
3. The argument that the tax impairs the obligation of a
contract between the petitioner and Nelson Morris & Company
is hardly worthy of serious consideration. The power of taxation overrides any agreement of an employ6 to serve for a
specific sum. His contract remains entirely undisturbed.
There was no stipulation for an employment for a definite
peFi6d; and if there were, it is inconceivable that the State
should lose this right of taxation by the fact that the party
taxed had entered into an engagement with his employer for
a definite period. The tax is an incident to the business, and
probably might under the terms of their contract be charged
up against the employer as one of the necessary expenses of
carrying it on.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia is
Affirmed.

SAN FRANCISCO NATIONAL BANK v. DODGE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT (COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 44. Argued November 7,1904.-Decided February 27, 1905.

Section 5219, Rev. Stat., authorizes the taxation by the States of shares
of stock of national bahks but exacts that the tax when levied shall

be at no greater rate than that imposed on other moneyed capital; no
conflict necessarily arises" between the Federal statute and a state law
solely because the latter provides one method for taxation of state banks
and another method for national banks if there is no actual discrimination against the shares of the national banks resulting from the difference
in method. If, however, irrespective of the face of the law, the system
created by the state law in its practical execution produces an actual

