DALLEMAGNE V. MOISAN.
197 U. S.

Syllabus.

tractual. To me it seems that this interpretation, whilst
overruling the previous cases also originally considered, gives
to the national banking act an erroneous construction. The

mere fact that the act gives to the Comptroller the power of
making a call on stockholders for the purpose of enforcing
their contract liability, in my judgment lends no support to
the proposition that the ministerial duty created to betteienforce the contract must be considered as destroying the
contract itself. 'The consequences which must arise from the
new construction now placed upon the national banking act,
it seems to me, will be of the .most serious nature, and being
unable to agree with such construction I cannot concur in the
opinion and judgment of the court.

I am authorized to say that Mn.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

JUSTICE BROWN

and

join this dissent.

DALLEMAGNE v. MOISAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 104.

Submitted December 15, 1904.-Decided March 13, 1905.

Power may be conferred upon a 9tatc officer, as such, to execute a duty
imposed under an act of Congress, and the officer may execute the same,
unless its execution is prohibited by the constitution or legislation of
the State.
There is n'o constitutional or statutory provision of California prohibiting
the arrest of a seaman on the request of a French consul under the treaty
with France of'1853, and such arrest, being for temporary detention of
a sailor whose contract is an exceptional one, does not deprive him of his
liberty without due process bf law, and if the chief of police voluntarily
performk the request of the consul the arrest is not illegal on that ground.
rhe only method of enforcing treaty provfiions for arrest of seamen on
requisition of foreign consuls is pursuant to the act of June 11, 1864,
13 Stat. 121, now §§ 4079, 4080, 4081, Rev. Stat., and thereunder the
requisition must be made to the District Court or judge and the arrest
made by the marshal, and an arrest by a local chief of police is not authorized; but if after a seaman so arrested has been produced before
the District Court on habeas corpts and the court finds that his case

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Statement of the Case.

197 U. S.

comes under the treaty and he should be held, the mere fact that he was
arrested by a person not authorized to do so does not entitle him to his
discharge.
After a seaman has been properly arrested on the request of the French
consul under the treaty of 1853 withFrance, he can he held in prison at
the disposal of the consul for sixty days, as provided for in § 4081, Rev.
Stat., and the court cannot discharge him within that period against
the protest of the consul because the vessel to which he belonged has
left the port at which ie was arrested.

is an appeal on the part of the consul general of the
Republic of France from the judgment of the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of California,
discharging the defendant Moisan from imprisonment.
The proceeding arises on habeas corpus, to inquire into the
validity of the detention of defendan t in tho city prison of
San Francisco, in the State of California. -His application for
the writ was addressed to the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of California, and it showed
that he wa 'a citizen of France and 'vas imprisoned by virtue
of a requisition in writing, signed by the French consul general
residing in San Francisco, and addressed to the chief of police
of'San Franciscoj California, requiring his arrest as one of the
crew of the French ship Jacques, then in that port, on account
of his insubordinate conduct as one of. such crew. (The
requisition c6ntained all the averments of facts which would
warrant the arrest of the 'etitioner under the provisions of the
treaty of 1853 between, the United States and France.) The
petitioner also averred that at the time of the making of his
application for the writ the ship was not in the port of San
Francisco, but had departed therefrom some time before.
The petitioner was arrested by the chief of police, under such
requisition, on the first day of May, 1903, and since that timt
had been confined in the city prison of San Francisco. He
asserted that his impfisonment was illegal, because the facts
set forth did not confer jurisdiction upon the consul or the
chief of police, or either of them, to restrain complainant
from his liberty, or to imprison him.
THIS

DALLEMAGNE v. MOISAN.
197 U. S.

Argument or Appellant.

The petition was dated the twenty-sixth day of May, 1903,
and the writ was issued, returnable before the District Court
on the twenty-eighth day of May, 1903. The chief of police
produced the body of the defendant, pursuant to the command of the writ, and justified the imprisonment, under the
requisition referred to.
The District Court, after hearing counsel, made an order
discharging the defendant from arrest, on the ground that it
appeared to the court that the bark Jacques, of the crew of
which the defendant was a member, had departed from the
port of San Francisco, and was no longer in that port. It was
further ordered that the execution of the order should be
stayed for the term of one day. Immediately thereon the
consul general filed with the District Court his petition for
appeal to the Supreme Court of -the United States from the
judgment discharging the defendant from imprisonment, which
appeal was duly allowed, and thereupon the petitioner was
admitted to bail by the District Court.
Mr. Walter V. R. Berry and Mr. Benjamin S. Minor for
appellant:
The requisition on the chief of police was made in pursuance
of the treaty of 1853. The sole reason for the discharge was
that the vessel had left the port. The word "their" in the
expression "whole time of their stay in port" does not refer
to the vessels but to the' persons arrested. The construction
given by the court below is extraordinary and would render
the provision useless. The contract of a sailor is ah exceptional one. Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, and treaty
provisions such as this are usual between civilized nations.
Wildenhus's case, 120 U. S.1,12. The wording of Art. VIII
of the treaty is so definite and precise that there is no room
for interpretation and the construction put upon it by the
courtibelow could be regarded as indicating a purpose to
change the law by judicial action. As to interpretation of a
plain unambiguous sentence see Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Argument for Appellee.

197 U. S.

vol. 17, p. 4; vol. 26, p. 598; vol. 28, p. 489; 2 Phillinore, §70;
1 Halleck Int. Law, ch. VIII, § 39, p. 297; 2 Vattel Droit des
Gens, § 263; Calvo, § 1650; Bale RefrigeratingCo. v. Sulzberger,
157 U. S. 1; Tucker v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424, 437.
A treaty should be carried out in a spirit of uberrima tides
and construed so as to give effect to the objects designed. In
re Ross, 140 U. S. 453, 475. Courts will not, if it can be
avoided, find any interpretation violating the pledged faith
of the Government. Ropes v. Clinch, 8 Blatch. 304.
Mr. William Denman for appellee:
A Federal treaty cannot impose on a state officer a function
violating the constitution of the State which he represents in
his official character. Const. California, Art. I, §§ 7, 8, 13, 15.
As neither information nor indictment had been filed against
Moisan nor was he held pending the preferment of any charges
leading to an information or indictment, or any prosecution
under California law, Moisan was held in violation of the state
constitution. Sec. 1977, Rev. Stat.; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356.
The same principle of the inviolability of the machinery
of a State from Federal interference has been laid down where
national stamp duties were attempted to be imposed upon the
process of state courts and taxation of salaries. Warren v.
Paul, 22 Indiana, 279; Jones v. Estate of Kesp, 19 Wisconsin,
390; Fifield v. Close, 15 Michigan, 505; Smith v. Short, 40 Alabama, 385.
4A Federal treaty cannot compel a State to enforce the penal
laws of a foreign country by assisting in extradition or otherWise. The process attempted is in the nature of an extradition
of an alleged offender against French law. The State cannot
lend its assistance to this. The general rule that a State cannot enforce the criminal laws of a foreign government finds
no exception in the state or Federal Constitution. The Antelope, 10 Wheat. 66, 123; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657.
Extradition, as a part of the criminal procedure of a foreign

DALLEMAGNE v. MOISAN.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nation, is no exception to the general rule. Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Peters, 540; Ex parte Holmes, 12 Vermont, 631; People
v. Curtis, 50 N. Y. 321.
Congress has construed the treaty to apply to Federal authorities only and has enacted legislation to carry the treaty
into effect with which the appellant has not complied. Rev.
Stat. §§ 4079, 4080, 4081.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the construction of certain language in
the eighth article of the consular convention between the
United States and France, concluded on the twenty-third day
of February, 1853, and proclaimed by the President of the
United States on the twelfth day of August, 1853, the whole
convention being still in full force and effect. 10 Stat. 992,
996. The article is reproduced in the margin.1
The first objection made by the defendant is to the validity
of the requisition of the consul general, because it was directed
,,to the chief of police of San Francisco, he being an officer of
the State as distinguished from a Federal officer, the defendant contending that a Federal treaty cannot impose on a state
officer, as such, a function violating the constitution of the
1ARTICLE VIII. The respective consuls general, consuls, vice consuls,
or.consular agents, shall have exclusive charge of the internal order of the
merchant vessels of their natiof, and shall alone take cognizance of differences which may arise, either at sea or in port, between the captain, officers,
and crew, without exception, particularly in reference to the adjustment
of wages and the execution of contracts. The local authorities shall not,
on any pretext, interfere in these differences, but shall lend forcible aid to
the consuls, when they may ask it, to arrest and imprison all persons composing the, crew whom they may deem it necessary to confine. Those
persons shall be arrested at the sole request of the donsuls, addressed in
writing to the local authority, and supported by an official extract from the
register of the ship or the list of the crew, and shall be held, during the whole
time of their stay in the port, at the disposal of the consuls. Their release
shall be granted at the mere request of the consuls made in writing. The
expenses of the arrest and detention of those persons shall be paid by the
consuls.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the Court.

197 U. S.

State which he represents in his official character. It has long
been held that, power may be conferred upon a state officer,
as such, to execute a duty imposed under an act of Congress,
and the. officer may execute the same, unless its execution is
prohibited by the constitution or legislation of the State.
Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 622; Robertson v. Baldwin,
165 U. S. 275.

As to the objection that there was any statute

or any. constitutional provision of the State, prohibiting the
execution of the power conferred by the treaty upon the state
officer, we think it unfounded. We find nothing in the constitution or in the statutes of California which forbids or would
pre' ent the execution of the power by a state officer, in case
he were willing to execute it. The provisions in the constitution of the State, cited by counsel for defendant, relate in sub*stanice only .to the general proposition that no person should
be deprived of his liberty without due process of law. The
execution of a treaty between the United States and a foreign
government, such as the one in question, would not violate
any provision of the California constitution; the imprisonment
is not purstmnt to a conviction of crime but is simply a temporary detention of a sailor, whose contract of service is an exceptional one, Robertson v. Baldwin, supra, for the purpose of
securing his person during the time and under the circumstances provided for in the treaty, as concerning the internal
order and discipline of the vessel. The murder on a foreign
vessel, while in one of the ports of this country, of one of the
crew of such vessel by another- member of that crew has been
held not to come within the terms of a somewhat similar treaty
with Belgium, because the crime charged concerned more than
the internal order or discipline of the foreign vessel. Wildenhus's case, 120 U. S. 1.
. The chief of police voluntarily performed the request of the
consul as contained in the written requisition, and the arfest
was, therefore, not illegal 6o far as this ground is concerned.
There is another difficulty, however, and that is founded
upon the provisions of the statutes .f the United States. By

DALLEMAGNE v. MOISAN.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the act of Congress, approved June 11, 1864, 13 Stat. 121,
entitled "An act to provide for the execution of treaties between the United States and foreign nations respecting consular jurisdiction over the crews of vessels of such foreign
nations in the waters and ports of the United States," full
provision was made for the execution of such treaties. It was
therein provided (section second) that application for the
arrest might be made "to any court of record of the United
States, or any judge thereof, or to any commissioner appointed
under the laws of the United States." The act then provided
for the issuing of a warrant for the arrest of the individual
complained of, directed to the marshal of the United States,
and requiring him to arrest the individual and bring him before
the court or persoi issuing the warrant, for examination, and
if, on such examination, it appeared that the matter complained of concerned only the internal order or discipline of
the foreign ship, the court should then issue a warrant committing such person to prison, etc. It was further provided
that no person should be detained more than two months
after his arrest, but at the end of that time heqshould be alloweg'
to depart and should not again be arrested for the same cause.
The act was carried forward, in substance, into the Revised
Statutes of -the United States as sections 4079, 4080, 4081.
See also 2 Comp. Stat. page 2776. This statute having been
passed by the United States for the purpose of executing the
treaties it had entered into with foreign governments, must
be regarded as the only means proper to be adopted for that
purpose. Consequently, the requisition of the consul general
should have, been presented to the District Court or judge,
etc., pursuant to the act of Congress, and the. arrest should
hive been made by the marshal as therein provided for.
Therefore the arrest of the seaman by the chief of police was
unauthorized. When, however, the defendant was brought
before the District Court of the United States upon the writ
of habeas corpus, that court being mentioned in the statute as
one of the authorities to issue warrants for the arrest of the

'176.

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Opinion of the'Coutt.

197 U. S.

individual complained of, and having power under the statute
to examine into the question and to commit the person thus
arrested to prison according to the provisions of the act, it
would have been the duty of the court, -ander such circumstances, upon the production of the defendant under the writ,
and upon the request of the consul, to have made-an examination, and to have committe the defendant to prison if he were
found to come uner the terms of the treaty. It was, therefore, but a formal objectibn to the regularity of the arrest,
which would have been obviated by the action of the court
in examining into the case, and the defendant would not have
been entitled to discharge merely because the person executing the warrant was not authorized so to do.
The important question remains as to the true construction
of the eighth articld of the treaty, with reference to the 1.imitation of the imprisonment of the person coming within its
terms. The District Court has held that the imprisonment
must end with the departure of the vessel from the port at
which the seaman was taken from the vessel. This we regard
as an erroneous construction of the terms of the article.
The provisions of that article seem to us plain, and they
refer -to the imprisonment of the seaman and his detention
port,, and the language does not
during the time of his stay in.
refer in that respect to the stay of the-ship in port. The treaty
provides that the local authorities shall lend forcible aid to the
consuls when they may ask for the arrest and imnprisonment
of persons composing the crew, whom they may deem it necessary to confine. The language has no reference whatever
to the ship, and they (the persons arrested) are held during
their stay in the port "at the disposal of the consul." Surely
the ship is not held at the disposal of the consul. It is the
persons arresfed who are held, and they are to be released at
the mere request of the consul, made in writing, and the expenses of the arrest and detention of the persons arrested are
to be paid by the consul. From the language of the treaty
the departure of the ship from the port need have no. effect

DALLEMAGNE v. MOISAN.
197 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whatever upon the imprisonment of the persons arrested. The
statute (see. 4081 of the Rev. Stat.) provides that the imprisonment shall in no case last longer than two months, and at
the end of that time the person arrested is to be set at liberty,
and shall not again be arrested for the same cause. The
statute makes no reference to the stay of the vessel in port,
and the legislative construction of the treaty is that the imprisonment is not limited by the departure of the ship. Therefore the statute provides that such imprisonment shall not
last, in any event, longer than two months. That term might
end while the vessel was still in port. This construction not
only carries out the plain language of the treaty, but, it seems
to us, it is its reasonable interpretation. A vessel may arrive
in port with a mutinous sailor, whose arrest is asked for under
the treaty. When imprisoned pursuant to the terms of the
treaty he ought not to be discharged without the request of
the consul while within the limit of the term of imprisonment
provided by the statute, simply because the vessel from which
he was taken has left the port. If that were so the result
would be either that the sailor would be discharged as soon
as the ship left the port, or,, in order to prevent such discharge,
he would be taken on board the ship again, and probably be
placed in irons. The ship might then continue a voyage
which would not bring it back to France for months. During
this time the sailor might be.kept in irons and in close confinement on board ship, or else the discipline and safety of the
ship might be placed in peril. By the oth'er construction,
although the ship had left the port without the mutinous
sailor, he would not be entitled to his discharge from imprisonment- within the two months provided for by the statute,
and this would give an opportunity to the lconsul to send the
sailor back to France at the earliest opportunity and at the
expense of fhe French Government, by a vessel which was
going directly to that country.
The District Court erred in discharging the defendant befor6
the expiration of the two months provided for in the act of
VOL. CXCVII

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1904.
Syllabus.

197 U. S.

Congress, and against the protest of the French consul. Less
than one of the two months of imprisonment permitted by the
statute had expired when the defendant was discharged. The
order discharging him must be reversed and the defendant
remanded to imprisonment in a prison where prisoners under
sentence of a court of the United States may be lawfully committed, Rev. Stat. § 4081, subject to the jurisdiction of the
French consular authority of the port of San Francisco, but
such imprisonment must not exceed, when taken with the
former imprisonment of the defendant, the term of two months
in the aggregate.
Reversed, and remanded for further proceedings consistent
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissented.

CITY OF DAWSON v. COLUMBIA AVENUE SAVING
FUND, SAFE DEPOSIT, TITLE AND TRUST COM~
PANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 154. Argued January 26, 27, 1905.-Decided Mareh 27, 1905.

An arrangement of parties which is merely a contrivance between friends
to found jurisdiction on diverse citizenship in the Circuit Court will hot
avail, and when it is obvious that a party who is really on complainant's
side has been made a defendant for jurisdictional reasons, and for the
purpose of reopening in the United States courts a controversy already
decided in the state courts, the court will look beyond the pleadings
and arrange the parties according to their actual sides in the dispute.
the wrongful repudiation of, and refusal to pay, a contract debt by a city
may amount merely to a naked breach of contract, and in the absence of
any legislative authority affecting the contract or on which the refusal
to pay is based, the inere fact that the city. is a municipal corporation
does not give to its refusal the character of a law impairing the obliga-

