OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

stated. It is, consequently, unnecessary to determine any
question as to priority of payment out of the fund, except
that presented by the conflict between the Fourth Street
Bank and the assignee in insolvency representing the general
creditors of the Keystone Bank.
The first question propounded will therefore be answered in
the affirmative, thus rendering it unnecessary to pass upon the
second question certified, and

It

Mi. JUSTICE; GiY, MR. JUSTICE BREWER and

'Z8 80

ordered.

MR.

JUSTiCE

PECOHAM dissented.

WALKER v. BROWN.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 198. Submitted January 18, 1696.-Decided ,March1,189T.
Every express executory agreement in writing, whereby the contracting
party sufficiently indicates an intention to make some particular property,
real or personal, or fund, therein described'or identified, a security for a
debt or other obligation, or whereby the party promises to convey or
assign or transfer the property as security, creates an equitable lien
upon the property so indicated, which is enforceable against the property In-the hands not only of the original contractor, but of his heirs,
administrators, executors, voluntary assignees and purchasers, or encumbraucers with notice.
On the facts stated in the opinion of the court, which can with difficulty be
condensed without omitting something which might be .deemed essential,
and applying to those facts the principle of law stated in the preceding
patagraph,. Held, that Walker. & Co. had an equitable lien upon the bonds
of Brown pledged to the Union National Bank, and that those bonds
had been returned to Brown under such circumstances as to continue Ehe
lien against them in the hands of Mrs. Brown, to whom they had been
given by him.
To dedicate property to. a particular purpose, toprovide that a specified
dreditor, and that creditor alone, shall be authorized to seek payment
from It or its val.e, is to create 'anequitable lien.upon it.
or reasons stated in the opinion interest is to be computed at the rate of
six per cent, not at the rate of ten per cent.

WALKER v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.
THE

case is stated m the opinion.

M' Henry S. Robbzn8 for appellants.
Mr _Zlathanzel T Guernsey for appellees.
MR.JUSTICE

WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The complainants, who are appellants here, all citizens of
the State of Illinois., members of the firm of J. H. Walker "&
Company, established in the city of Chicago, filed their bill
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Iowa, Central Division, against Anna L.Brown,
widow of Talmadge E. Brown, as administratrix .of her deceased husband's estate, and against Willis S. Brown and
Edward L. Marsh, coadministrators, all of whom were
alleged to be citizens of the State of Iowa and to have
been duly appointed as aforesaid by the District Court of
Polk County, Iowa.
Omitting reference to matters which have become irrelevant to the controversy in its final aspect, the oill substantially averred that Talmadge E. Brown, being desirous of
assisting an Iowa corporation known as the Lloyd Mercantile Company; delivered to said company $15,000 bonds of
the city of Memphis worth their face value That between
May and July, 1889, Walker & Company sold to the Lloyd
Mercantile Company merchandise to a considerable amount,
on the price of which there remained due on the-st- of
August, 1889, 1'1524.78 That on or about that date the
corporation was dissolved and a firm composed of J Collins
Lloyd and Copeley Lloyd was formed under the name of J C.
Lloyd & Company, for the purpose of continuing the business
of the Mercantile Company, the new business to be carried
on at Ellensburg, State of Washington, and that the firm
assumed the debts and liabilities of the Lloyd MHercantile
Company It was further alleged that the firm just iurmed
proposed to buy from Walker & Company a considerable
amount of Terdhandise on credit, but that Walker &

OCTOBER TERYM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Company declined to give this asked for credit unless
Brown would agree that the fifteen thousand of Memphis
bonds, lent by him to the Lloyd Mercantile Company, should
not be Withdrawn by Brown from the assets of the new firm,
or be returped to Brown as long as there remained a debt
due to Walker & Company by Lloyd & Company on account
of the purchase of goods That thereupon Brown entered into
a written agreement to the effect stated, and that on the faith
of this written agreement the firm of Walker & Company
had not pressed the collection of the old debt, and had sold
Lloyd & Company merchandise on credit to the value of
$12,391:61, which, added to the sum previously due and
assumed. by Lloyd & Company, made the debt due to
Walker & Company $13,916.39, the whole of which sum
the bill averred to be due at the time of the commencement
of the suit. The bill charged that the intent of the parties
and the legal result of the agreement made by Brown was to
cause the fifteen thousand Memphis bonds or their value to
become a security for this debt of Walker & Company, and
that-thereby there was created an equitable lien on the bonds
to the amount of the debt in favor of Walker & Company
It was further alleged that on the 25th day of December,
1889, the firm of'-Lloyd & Company became wholly insolvent,
and so remained up to the time of the filing of the bill ",That
after the making of the agreement by Brown, in order to
escape the effect of the contract, Brown induced Lloyd &
Company to return to him (Brown) the Memphis bonds,.and
that from the time of such return neither the said bonds or
the value thereof .formed part of the assets of Lloyd & Com-pany That Walker & Company did not know of the return
of the bonds until after the credit had been extended to Lloyd
& Company It was alleged that complainants did not know
the true condition of the estate of Brown, or whether the
Memphis bonds were yet among.its assets, and that a discovery and accounting was necessary in order to enable them to
reach the property upon which the lien was asserted to exist
or the proceeds thereof in the hands of the administrators.
The relief prayed was that if on discovery it be found that

WALKER v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

the Memphis bonds or any portion thereof were a part of the
assets of the estate of Brown, an equitable -lien be recognized
thereon, and the bonds be ordered to be sold and the proceeds
applied, as far as necessary, to the payment of the debt due
by Lloyd & Company to the complainants That if the Memphis bonds had been sold or exchanged by Brown for other
properties, which could be traced to the hands of the administrators, that a like lien might be adjudged thereon That if
the bonds, or any part thereof, did not form a part of the estate of Brown in the hands of his administrators, the complainants might be adjudged to be creditors of the estate for the
amount of the value of the bonds to the extent necessary to
pay their debt and that the administrators be ordered to
pay this sum in due course of administration and be ordered
to render, under the supervision of the court, an account of all
properties received by them as administratprs and of all their
acts and °doings as such. There was a prayerfor an-injunction.
restraining the disposing or encumbering of the Memphis bonds
referred to or the proceeds th6reof in the hands of the administrators. In addition to this claim there was an averment astp a debt due b Brown's estate for $560.14, asserted to have
been expended in an endeavor to coRect the debt due by Lloyd
& Company, and for which it was alleged Brown had agreed
to be responsible.
The answer, in so far as it relates to the matters above stated,
averred that about February, 18SS9, the Lloyd Mercantile Company, being in need of money, ifiduced Brown, the deceased,
to loan fifteen one thousand dollar bonds of the city of Memphis, to be used. as collateral security for a loan which the company was thea about to make, that the company received the
bonds and used them by pledging them to secure the debt, all
of which facts were known to the complainants That this
transaction with the company was the only one the deceased
had with it on the subject of the Memphis bonds. The answer specifically denied that the bonds of the city of Memphis thus loaned to the Mercantile Company were at any
tume an asset of'said company, and also expressly denied. that
the bonds were ever loaned to the Mercantile Company or
VOL. CLxV-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to Lloyd & Company, its successor, for any other than the
express purpose above stated, that is, to be used as collateral
back of the particular loan referred to, denying all knowledge
of the existence of the alleged debt in favor of Walker & Company, it was averred that no other contract or .agreement on
the subject of the bonds was made by Brown, with Walker &
Company, except such contract as might result from the terms
of a letter on the subject of the Memphis bonds, dated Chicago, December 21, 1889, written by Brown, to Walker & Company, which letter was set out in the answer.
After denying that the credit given to Walker & Company
was extended to Lloyd & Company on the faith of the
bonds, and after charging that the bonds were, at the time
of the writing of the letter, held as collateral back of a
loan of the Union National Bank of Chicago, and that no
equitable lien thereon resulted from the writing of tha letter
by Brown, the answer, in addition, averred, that after the
writing of the letter, to wit, some time during the month of
November, 1889, the bank, in whose hands the Memphis
bonds of Brown had been deposited as collateral for Lloyd
& Company's debt, pressed for payment of the principal
obligation and threatened in default to sell the bonds That
Brown thereupon, in order to prevent-the sale of his bonds,
paid the debt with his own funds and withdrew-the bonds,
and that thus he had been discharged of his obligations under
the terms of the letter referred to, if any obligation thereby
arose That no part of the money which made this payment
was that of Lloyd & Company, or was taken from the assets
of the firm, but the -payment was made wholly and exclusively with the money of Brown in order to prevent the
sale of his bonds. It was also charged.in the answer that if
any delft existed in favor of Walker & Company it was extinguishod, this being predicated on a recital Qf the following
facts That on the failure of J. C. Lloyd & Company" in
December, 1889, Walker & Company had taken a chattel
mortgage on the stock of goods of the firm at Ellensburg,
Washington, to secure the payment of their debt, and had
entered with other creditors having a like mortgage into

WALKER v. BROWNi.
Opinion of the Court.

possession of the stock of goods, which largely exceeded the
value of the mortgages resting upon it That thereafter creditors of Lloyd & Company had levied upon the stock and had
actually disturbed or threatened to disturb, the possession of
the mortgagees That the mortgagees then acquired the rights
of certain of these creditors who had levied upon the stock,
and had, then, under process issued in the name of the creditors, sold and bought in the equity of the -creditors in the
stock, and subsequently, without any foreclosure of their mortgages, taken entire charge of the stock and disposed of itat
private sale. These facts, the bill averred, had, under the
laws of Wgshington, operated to extinguish the claim of -the
mortgage creditors.
The answer moreover admitted that at the time of Brown's
death "there were fifteen one thousand dollar bonds of the
city of M emphis in his possession as his property, and that
the same passed with his other estate into the hands of his
adminstrators as part of his said estate. But this respondent
avers that the bonds were, prior to the death of Brown, given
by him as a gift to his wife, Anna L. Brown, who now holds
and owns the same." Replication to the answer was filed..or
the 5th of March, 1892.
The issues as to the main controversy presented by these
pleadings were therefore clearly as follows An assertion on
the part of complainants that they had extended credit upon
their old debt due by. the Lloyd Mercantile Company and
assumed by Lloyd & Company, and had given further credit
to the new firm of Lloyd & Company, by selling merchandise
to it on the faith of an agreement by Brown that his Memphis
bonds should be a security for the debt, and that this agreement was evidenced by a written contract on the part of
Brown, the result of which was to create an equitable lien
upon the bonds or the value thereof, that Brown had unlaw
fully withdrawn the bonds, and that the lien was therefore
operative upon the bonds in his possession or upon their proceeds if he had disposed of them, and if the proceeds cQuld
be traced to his estate, and if not that the estate-was lible
for the debt. A denial on the part of the defendants that

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

there was any contract but the letter above referred to, the
the terms of which it was asserted did not give rise to a lien
upon the bonds or their value, which -was followed by the
allegation that all Brown's obligations under the contract, if
any arose from it, had been extinguished by his being compelled to pay, in order to prevent the sale of the bonds, solely
from .his own money the debt for which the bonds were
pledged, the further defence being an assertion that the claim
of Walker & Companyagainst Lloyd & Company was extinguished in consequence of the acts in relation to the mortgage subsequently taken, is referred to in the.answer.
In support of these various issues both parties took testimony, under commissions, the last deposition having been
opened on October 18, 1892. When all the testimony had
been taken and its result was known to the parties, on lovember14, 1892, the complainants by leave of court amended their
bill by averments charging that the Memphis bonds referred
to were in the possession of Mrs. Anna L. Brown, she having
received them as a gift from Talmadge E. Brown, and praying the recognition of an equitable lien "onthe bonds in her
hands. The defendants amended their answer by additional
averments concerning the conduct of Walker & Company in
relation to the mortgage taken to secure their debt. The
amended answer besides averred that "the said T. E. Brown,
deceased, contributed in value to the said J C.Lloyd & Company and their funds and assets the full sum or value of fifteen
thousand ($15,000) dollars, being the actual value of the Memphis bonds loaned, to said J C. Lloyd & Company, and that
the estate of T. E. Brown through these defendants likewise
contributed more largely in amount than the value of said
Memphis bonds to the. assets and to the payment of the
indebtedness of J. C. Lloyd & Company" The result of
these amendments was that the complainants, finding the
bonds in the possession of Mrs. Brown under a gift from
her husband, elected. to proceed against her for the enforcement of the equitable lien which they asserted, and the
defeildants added a new*.ground to their original defence
by asserting, not that the bonds had been returned to Brown

WALKER v. -BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

in consequence of 'the payment by him of the debt for which
they had been pledged, but that Brown and his estate had
contributed more than the value of the bonds to the payment
of the debts of Lloyd & Company The Circuit Court, finding that the contract between Walker & Company and Brown
created no equitable lien on the bonds, but only an ordinary
contract relation, concluded that the remedy of the complainants was not within the cognizance of a court of equity, and.
therefore, dismissed the bill; reserving the right of Walker &
Company to seek relief against the estate of Brown in an
action at law. 56 Fed. Rep. 23. The Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit, to which court the case was taken on
appeal, rested"its decree of affirmance upon substantially the
same grounds. 27 U. S. App. 291. A writ of certiorari was
allowed and-the record has been brought here for review
The followflrg facts are established by the proof
In 1888 J. 0. Lloyd and Copeley Lloyd were engaged in business at Des Moines, Iowa. T. E. Brown was also a resident
of Des Moines and a man of large fortune. His adopted or
foster daughter was the wife of J C. Lloyd. In February, 1889 .
J. C. Lloyd and Copeley Lloyd organized a-corporation under
-the laws of Iowa, called the Lloyd Mercantile Company, and
this com pany, either -with the stock (f goods purchased in its
own name after its organization or with a stock which had
been purchased previously by J C. and Copeley Lloyd and by
them transferred to the corporation, commenced business in
March, 1889, at Tacoma, Washington Territory In May,
1S89, part of the stock of merchandise of -the company was
moved to Ellensburg, Washington Territory, where a store
was opened in the name of the corporation, and the remainder
of the stock was taken to Davenporb, in the same Territory,
where a branch store was also opened. Between July and the
1st of August, 1889, J C. Lloyd and Copeley Lloyd issued a
circular, announcing the formation of a commercial firm under
the name of J..C. Lloyd & Company, which, it was stated, had
assumed all the debts of the Lloyd Mercantile Company In
the autumn of 1888, preceding the formation of the.Mercantile
Company, the Lloyds bought from the firm of Clement, Bain

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

& Company merchandise to the extent of $50,000, part of which
was paid for in money and the balance evidenced by notes.
In February, 1889, there were outstanding and unpaid notes,
thus given for the purchase price of the merchandise bought,
from Clement, Bain & Company, to the amount of $15,000.
Upon these notes T. E: Brown was the endorser or surety
The makers of the notes being unable to pay them, Brown
handed to' Lloyd fifteen bonds of the denomination of one
thousand dollars each of the city of Memphis for the express
and only purpose of enabling'Lloyd to use the bonds as collateral security for a loan to be procured with which to pay
the outstanding notes- upon which he (Brown) was surety
Lloyd called upon the firm of James H. Walker & Company
of Chicago to assist him in obtaining this loan. Mason, a
confidential employe, managing the credits of Walker & Company, coiperated with Lloyd in his effort to borrowi.money
on the security of the bonds of Brown. The Union National
Bank of Chicago, whose president was a member of the firm
of Walker & Company, lent Lloyd the money, and the fifteen
Memphis bonds were pledged as collateral for this loan. Subsequently, from May to July, 1889, Walker & Company sold
and shipped to the Lloyd Mercantile Company a very considerable amount of merchandise, and at the time of the dissolution of the corporation and the formation of the firm the
Lloyd Mercantile Company owed Walker & Company a. balance of account to the extent of $1524.78. During the course
of these dealings the note which had been given by Lloyd to the
Union Bank, supported by the Memphis bonds as collateral,
reached maturity and through the friendly coi5peration of
Walker & Company the bank which held it, at the request of
Lloyd, extended the term for its payment. After the forination of the partnership of Lloyd & Company, Lloyd desized to
purchase on credit a large amount of goods from Walker &
Company, and furnished, on being/alled upon, a statement of
the condition of the firm.

This statement indicated .the sol-

vency of the firm, but contained no mention of a claim in
favor of Brown resulting from the Memphis bond transaction.
Upon inquiry being, addressed by Mason to Lloyd on the sub-

WALKER v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

ject, he declared that he had not included in his statement a
debt in favor of Brown growing out of the lending of the
Mlemphis bonds, because it was a mere friendly arrangement
between himself and Brown, and "he did not regard it exactly
as a debt." Mason thereupon made a memorandumn on the
bottom of the statement as follows "In addition to above
liability, owe Mr. T. E. Brown, Des Moines, Ia., $15,000, payable at our convenience. This is in the city of Memphis, Tenn.,
bonds, now hypothecated Union National Bank for loan equal
in amount." Mason thereupon informed Lloyd "that those
bonds or the proceeds of those bonds were not to be returned
or paid to Mr. Brown until our debt is paid," and Lloyd
requested Mason to dictate such a letter as he might wish.
Brown to sign and it would be signed. Mason then dictated
a letter, which is the one referred to in the bill of complaint
as evidencing the contract, and which, as already stated, was
set out in full in the answer
" CHICAGO,

Sept. 21st, 1889.

"Messrs. James 11. Walker & Co., Chicago, Ill.
" GENTLEMEN I beg to advise you that the loan of fifteen
thousand dollars, Memphis bonds, made by me to Mr. J C.
Lloyd for the use of-Messrs. Lloyd & Co., Ellensburgh, Wash.
Ter., is with the understanding that any indebtedness that
they may be owing you at any tine, shall be paid before the
retuin to me of these bonds, or the value thereof, and that
these bonds or the value thereof are at the risk of the business of Lloyd & Co., so far as any claim you may have against
said Lloyd &. Co. is concerred.
"Yours truly,
"T. E. BRowN."
Pending the sending of this letter by Lloyd to Brown, and
its return to Walker & Company, with the signature of Brown
affixed to it, the goods which had been ordered by Lloyd were
prepared for shipment, but were retained and were only
shipped on the receipt of the letter. Subsequently in December, 1889, Lloyd & Company became insolvent, and the debt
to Walker & Co., amounting to $13,916.39, remains unpaid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The questions which first require solution are, did the agreement embodied in the letter create an equitable lien, in favor
of Walker & Company upon the bonds of Brown pledged to
the Union National Bank, and if so, were they returned to
Brown under such circumstances as to cause the lien, if any
existed, to be operative against the bonds in the hands of Mrs.
Brown, who holds them under a gift from Brown, and, therefore, subject to such lien, if any, attached to theta in the hands
of Brown? Before. tonsidering the contract itself, and th
issue of fact which arises, it is necessary to fix the legal principles by which the question of equitable- lien is to be determined. It is clear that if the express intention of the parties
was to create an equitable lien-upon the bonds or the value
thereof, or if such intention arises by a necessary implication
from the terms of the agreement construed with reference to
the situation of the parties" at the time of the contract, and by
the attendant circumstances, such equitablb lien will be enforced by a court of equity against the bonds in the hands of
Brown or against third persons who are volunteers or have
notice. It is well settled, said the court in Psnch v. Anthof y,
8 Allen, 536, "that a party may .by express agreement create
a charge or claim in the nature of a lien on real as well as on
personal property, of which he is the owner or in possession,
and that equity will establish and enforce such charge or
claim, not only against the party who stipulated to give it,
but also against third persons, who are either volunteers, or
who take the estate on which the lien is agreed to be given
with notice of the stipulation." The subject* was very fully
reviewed with reference to the English and American author
ities in .Ketchum v. -St. Louts, 101 U. S. 306, where the language just cited was approved and that ruling was considered
and reaffinrmed, during this term, in Fourth Street Bank v.
Yardley, ante, 634. Pomeroy m his work on Equity Jurisprudence, (vol. 3, par. 1235,).condenses and states the general
result of the authorities on the subject, as follows
"The doctrine may be stated in its most general form that
every express executory agreement in writing, whereby the
contracting party sufficiently indicates an intention to make

WALKER v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

some particular property, real or personal, or fund, therein
described or identified, a security for a debt or other obligationp, or whereby the party proises to convey or assign or
transfer the property as security, creates an equitable lien
upon the property so indicated, which is enforceable against
the property in the hands not only of the original contractor,
but of his heirs, administrators, executors, voluntary assignees
The
and purchasers or encumbrancers with notice.
ultimate grounds and motives of this doctrine are explained
in the preceding section, but the doctrine itself is clearly an
application of the maxim, equity regards as done that which
ought to be done."
The words of the contract, embodied in the letter, are as
follows "I beg to advise you that the loan of fifteen thousand dollars, Memphis bonds, made by me for the use of
Messrs. Lloyd & Company, Ellensburg, is with the understanding that any indebtedness that they may be owing to
you at any time, shall be paid before the return to me of
these bonds or the value thereof, and that these bonds or
the value thereof are at the risk of the business of Lloyd &
Company, so far as any claim you may have against said
Lloyd & Company is concer-ied." This language certainly
designates the bonds or the value thereof as a security for
It says that the bonds
the debt to Walke? & Company
belonging to Brown shall not be returned to him so long
as the debt to Walker is unpaid. It thus provides for the
keeping in the hands of Lloyd &Company of the bonds until
the debt of Walker is discharged. Having stipulated for retaming the bonds as long as Walker's debt existed, the agreement proceeds to dedicate the property thus retained exclusively to the payment of Walker's debt, for it says, not that
the property so held shall become an asset of the firm, not
that it shall be liable to the general creditors of Llo~d &
Company, but that the bonds or the value thereof are to
remain at the risk of the business of Lloyd & Company so
far as any clam that you (Walker & Company) may h4ave.
To construe the contract as making the bonds a mere general
asset of the firm would not only eliminate the words "in so

OCTOBER TER-T, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

far as you (Walker & Company) are concerned," but would
operate an injustice to Brown by presupposing that he bad
given up his property for the general purposes of the firm of
Lloyd & Company, when on the contrary, in express language,
the contract provides that only one creditor of Lloyd & Company, to wit, Walker & Company, should exercise recourse on
the bonds. To dedicate property to a particular purpose, to
provide that a specified creditor and that creditor alone shall
be authorized to seek payment of his debt from the property
or its value, is unmistakably to create an equitable lien.
Nor does the fact that the letter provides that these bonds
or the value thereof shall be "at the risk of the business of
Lloyd & Company" change the manifest significance of the
contract, for these words are followed by the qualifwing languiage "so far as any claim you may have against Lloyd &
Company is concerned." The .bonds were at the risk of the
business in a,twofold sense, viz., the debt of Walker and the
sum for which they were pledged. Mfanifestlv, the dedication
of Brown's bonds to the Farticular and special payment of
Walker's debt, a debt due by the business of Lloyd & Company, left the bonds as a necessary consequence of the equitable lien which the contract crewted at the risk of the business,
that -is
to say, if the business did not pay the debt which it
owed to Walker & Company, the bonds or their value were
submitted to the risk of such non-payment, and therefore
subject to the equitable lien, if the risk of the business made
it necessary for Walker & Company to exercise the lien which
tne contract gave that firm. The contention that the words
"at the risk of the business" indicates that the parties to
the contract did not intend a lien on the bonds, since that
provision submitted the bonds to the entire risk of the business of Llovd & Company for every purpose, and therefore
authorized that firm, if they recovered possession of them,
.to use them for any other debt which they might owe, or
to sell them and apply the proceeds to their business generally, is unsound, since it entirely overlooks the express averment of the answer that the bonds-were lent by Brown to
Lloyd & Company for one purpose alone, that is, to be used

WALKER v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

as collateral for a particular debt and none other. The existence of this debt at the time the letter was written is also
averred in the answer, and this fact additionally elucidates not
only the meaning of the words "at the risk of the business,"
but also the stipulation that the bonds " or their value" should
be at such risk. The loan for which the bonds had been
placed as security was a debt of Lloyd & Company The
ability of Lloyd & Company to,paythis debt was a risk upon
which the coming back of the bonds into the possession of
Lloyd & Company depended. The contract considering the
possibility of the payment of the debt by Lloyd & Company,
and the arising therefore of the right of that firm to retake
possession of the bonds, stipulates for their non-return in that
event to Brown. On the other hand, considering that the
firm of Lloyd & Company might be unable to pay the debt,
and therefore fail to recover possession of the bonds, the contract provides that the claim in favor of Brown for the value
of his bonds, lost by the failure of the firm to pay the debt
for which they were pledged, should not be preferred agarnst
the assets of Lloyd & Company to the detriment of Walker's
claim. Now, the restriction placed on Brown -as to the nonexercise of his claim for the value in consequence of the risk
to which the .bonds were subjected from the outstanding
pledge cannot destroy the express provision against the return of the bonds to Brown in the event that the risk of the
business did not prevent their coming back into the possession
of Lloyd & Company
Equally without force is the assertion that, inasmuch as the
face value of the bonds was $15,000, and the debt for which
they were-4hen pledged was $15,000, therefore the parties
could not have contemplated the coming back of the bonds
into the possession of Lloyd & Company and their return to
Drown. This argument, if accepted, would read out of the
contract its express language provding against the return to
Brown in the contingency stated. Of course, the.lien in favor
of Walk r & Company was subordinate to the prior and outstanding claim resulting from the pledge, but the obvious
purpose of the contract, while considering that fact, was to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

give to Walker & Company the benefit of the bonds as a security for their claim in the event Lloyd & Company discharged the debt for which they were pledged, fi'om their
assets and thereby became entitled to the-possession of the
bonds. This construction of the contract and of the rights
of the parties under it was that entertained when the answer
was filed and before the proof had been taken, since the an.swer expressly asserts that the pledged debt had not been
paid by Lloyd & Company, but was made solely from the assets of Brown in order to prevent the sale of the bonds, and
therefore his obligation under the contract had been discharged. The subsequent amendment to thp answer, which
gave a.different view of the contract, was made after the coming in of the proof, which demonstrated the fact, as we shall
-hereafter see, to be that the payment of the debt had not been
made by Brown, but by Lloyd & Company If there be ambiguity in the contract resort may be had to the situation of
the paities and the circumstances uder which it was entered
into for the purpose, not of changing the writing, but of
furnishing light by which to ascertain its actual significance.
.Runkle v Burnham, '153 U. S. 216, 224.
Resorting to these means, the purpose- of the parties to
create a lien upon 'the bonds or their value is clearly manifest.
At the time the contract was entered into, the bonds were
held as collateral security for a loan obtained by Lloyd to pay
off a debt, for which Brown was bound, contracted for the
purchase price of merchandise. The proof conclusively sustains the averments of the answer that the bonds had been
given by Brown, not for the general purpose of the business
of Lloyd & Cbmpany, but exclusively to enable that firm to
pay this particular debt. This refutes the theory that the
bonds weie in the hands of Lloyd & Company for every purpose, and suggests the intention of the parties that on the
payment of the old debt by Lloyd & Company for the purchase of goods, for which the bonds were pledged, they should
occupy the same relation to the new debt for the same purpose which was about to be created. Nor is there force in
the argument that-the statement made by Mason to Lloyd &

WALKER v. BROWR.
Opinion of the Court.

Company preceding the writing of the letter conclusively
shows that Walker & Company did not contemplate a lien
upon the bonds, and therefore that the letter embodying the
contract which they exacted before giving the credit must be
held not to have given rise to the lien. This suggestion is

predicated upon the fact that -in the conversation the words "or
proceeds ' of the bonds were used by Mason. But the contract
contains no such words, it stipulates against the return of
the bonds to Brown, and against the use 'by Brown of his
claim against the assets for the value of the bonds. The use
by Mason of the word "proceeds" cannot be held to obliterate
the written contract, and if resort is to be had to the attendant circumstances, it must be so had, not to a particular word
used in a conversation, but the whole of the situation must be
considered. If this is done, it becomes clear that as Walker
& Company were familiar with the transaction by which the
bonds had been delivered to Lloyd &,Company by Brown for
the purpose of being used as collateral for a particular debt,
which was confirmed by thestatement made to them by Lloyd
at the time of the transaction, we cannot presume that they.
treated with Lloyd as 'having. other power over the bonds than
the limited purpose for which Brown-had loaned them. From
these considerations we conclude that the contract provided
for a lien upon the bonds to secure Walker's debt subordinAte to the then outstanding lien resulting from the existing
pledge, and stipulated against a return of the bonds in the
event of the payment of the debt by Lloyd & Company, and
imposed upon Brown the obligation not to assert quoad the
debt of Walker & Company, a claim against the assets of
Lloyd & Company for the value in the event the risk of the
business, the outstanding pledge, prevented the return of the
bonds to the possession of Lloyd & Company
The question then arises were the bonds absorbed by the
risk of the business, or were they, on the contraryj returned
to Brown in violation of the contract and subject to the
equitable lien which the contract created to secure the payment of the debt due Walker & Company 9, Shortly after
the making of the contract, that is, on October 26 and 29,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the CourL

1889, two payments, one for $73005 and the other for $2,700,
were made on account of the debt due the Union National
Bank for which the bonds were held as collateral. When
these two payments, aggregating -$10,000, were made, ten of
the Memphis bonds were delivered by the bank to Lloyd and
by him returned to Brown. Subsequently,.on December 17,
1889, the balance of the debt, $50010, was paid to the bank,
and the remainder of the bonds were also returned'to Brown.
As to the source whence the money wherewith the payment
of October 26 of $7300 was made, the testimony of Lloyd is,
to speak mildly, of an evasive character. The proof, however, conclusively establishes that this payment was made as
follows Lloyd and Brown called at the Polk County Savings
Bank of Des Moines, Iowa, and a loan was asked, in ,the name
of Lloyd, for $7500, and a nintv-day note for, that amount
Was drawn by Lloyd to the order of the bank. This note
after being endorsed by Brown was discounted by the savings
bank, the bank giving for the net amount of the discount a
draft on New York, which was used to make the payment
to the Union National Bank. The payment of October 21J
of $2700 is, by the uncontradipted testimony, shown to have
been made solely from the assets of Lloyd & Company The
payment on December 17 of the $5000 was made in this way
Brown drew two drafts for $2500 each on Lloyd & Company
at Ellensburg to the order of the Iowa.fational Bank of Des
Moines, and these.-drafts were discounted by that bank and
the proceeds put to Brown's credit i. account. He then
purchased a draft to the order of the Union National Bank
for $5000, giving his check on his own bank account in payment of the draft. The draft so purchased was used for the
payment of the balance due the Unioh National Bank, by
which final payment the release of the remainder of the
bonds was accomplished. The two drafts drawn by Brown
on Lloyd & Company were forwarded by the Iowa bank to
Ellensburg for collection. One of them was paid in full from
the assets of Lloyd & Company before their failure, the other
remained unpaid at the date of the failure, and was treated by
Brown as a liability of the firm, and was used for the purpose

WALKER v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

of absorbing its assets in the manner to be hereafter stated.
On the drawing of these drafts Brown credited Lloyd &
Company in account with the amount thereof, and against
this credit he debited Lloyd & Company with the $5000,.
which he paid for account of Lloyd for the final payment
on the note due the Union :National Bank.
Near the middle of December, 1889, Brown was in Ellensburg, and on the 26th of December, at the instigation of
Brown, a chattel mortgage upon the stock of goods of J. C.
Lloyd & Company was executed in favor of the Iowa National
Bank of Des oiomes for $17,500, and on the same day, a
mortgage secorid in rank, also at the instigation and request
of Brown, was executed by the firm in favor of the Polk
County Savings Bank for $7500. Included in the amount of
the debt secured by the mortgage to the Polk County Savings
Bank were the notes for $7500 given by Lloyd and endorsed
by Brown, from the proceeds of which the first payient of
$7300 was made. Imcluded in the debt of the Iowa National
Bank, for which the mortgage was given, was the draft for
$2500, whicli, as has been already stated, was not paid at that
date by Lloyd & Company The balance of the debt in favor
of the Iowa National Bank represented renewal notes of Lloyd
endorsed by Brown, which were held by the Iowa National
Bank, the original notes having.been prior in date to the formation of Lloyd & Company
The proof leaves no doubt that the execution of these
mortgages was brought about by Brown, who thus sought to
secure the stock of goods of Lloyd & Company for the purpose
of paying the debts for 1which he asserted himself to be indirectly liable. Indeed, as to the mortgage taken in favor of
the Iowa National Bank, the unchallenged proof is that Brown
acted in procuring the mortgage without reference to or instructions from the bank, but solely in his own interest. Haying thus obtained the two mortgages upon the stock of goods,
lie proceeded by way of procuring a mortgage on real estate
of Lloyd, of assignments of a leasehold held by him or his
firm,.assignment of a mortgage claim existing in favor of Lloyd
& Company, and by receipt of $7600 in cash procured by

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Lloyd by mortgage upon real estate to make himself master
of the situation so as to apply practically all the property of
-Lloyd & Company and Lloyd individually to the payment of
debts claimed to be due hi'm by Lloyd & Company, including
those debts for which he was contingently liable. Having
thus secured, to the utmost, all his claims against Lloyd &
Company by treating the debts upon which he was contingently liable, as the debts of Lloyd & Company, a chattel
mortgage inferior in rank to those taken in the name of
others, was executed in favor of Walker & Company for a
part of the debt due *them, and they were advised by telegram of the fact. The failure of Lloyd & Company at once
followed these occurrences. Attachments were sued out by
many general creditors and the business was wrecked. Without going into details as to the result of the mortgages and
attachments, it suffices to say that nothing was paid on account of Walker & Company's debt.
The contention that $98.00 of the money paid on account
of the debt of the Union National Bank for $15,000 must be
considered as solely made by Brown, is without merit. This
claim is based on the fact that the notes for $7500 which
were discounted by"the Polk County Savings Bank, and from
which discount the money was derived to make the payment
of $7300, were endorsed by Brownand upon the further fact
that one of the two drafts of $2500 each which-were drawn
upon Lloyd & Company to make up the $5000 and whjch
was discounted by the Iowa National Bank was drawn by
Brown. The notes and the draft were primarily obligations
of Lloyd & Company The contract between Brown and
Walker & Company from which the lien on the bonds arose
forbade the return of the bonds,. and besides stipulated, in the
event of their being lost by the risk of the business,. that the
claim for their value, mifavor of Brown, as against Lloyd &
Company, should not be urged until the payment of the debt
would be against the most" ele-of Walker & Company It'
mentary rules of good conscience and of fair dealing to allow
Brown to treat the payment of the debt as having Veen made
by Lloyd & Company, and therefore to enforce against the

WALKER v. BROWIT.
Opinion of the Court.
assets of that firm, the entire claim, to ,the detriment of
Walker & Company, and at the same time to allow Brown
to defeat the-lien on the bonds upon the contrary hypothesis
that the entire payment had been made by him, Brown, and
not. by Lloyd & Company No court of conscience can permit Brown to speculate on his chances of securing himself for
all his claims by defeating the lien of Walker & Company
on the one hand, and then on the other to allow him to assume
a conflicting attitude in order to destroy the lien. Having asserted the claims as debts of Lloyd & Company, having sought
to absorb the assets on this theory, Brown is concluded by his
conduct.
The claim set up in the amended answer, that because
Brown had other debts of Lloyd & Company which are unpaid, therefore he had contributed to the amount of $15,000
to the assets of Lloyd & Company, and thus performed his
contract, is as wanting in equity as the contention which we
have just considered. It is far from clear from the record
whether these asserted debts have not really been paid or
secured, but if they have not, the stipulation of the contract
which forbade'the return of the bonds was for the benefit of
Walker & Company, not for that of all the creditors of Lloyd
& Company Having dedicated the bonds belonging to him
to the payment of the debt, Brown cannot be heard to make
an exception in favor of claims held by himself, if any such
then existed or thereafter arose, so as to destroy the security
creeted by him in favor of Walker & Company, and upon the
faith of which they contracted. If there were debts due
Brown by Lloyd & Company they were as completely excluded from interfering with the lien of Walker & Company
upon the bonds as if they had been held by third persons.
The contention that the debt of Walker & Company was
extinguished from the fact that after having accepted the
mortgage security for a part of their debt, they united with
other mortgage creditors in buying the rights of certain
attaching creditors, and thereafter sold the stock of goods
without foreclosure, is fully answered by the statement that
there is no proof wh.%tever of any agreement that the taking
voi. CLxv-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of security should extinguish the original claim, and the proof
is also clear that the acts of Walker as to the purchase of the
rights of the attaching creditors and the subsequent dealings
with- the property were upon the express understanding with
Brown that these transactions should in no way impair the
rights of Walker & Company under the contract which we
have considered.
The asserted right of Walker & Company to enforce against
the estate of Brown-a claim for $560.14, averred to have been
expended in-an effort to collect the debt due by Lloyd & Coinpany upon an alleged agreement of Brown to repay the same,
was not pressed at the hearing, and. we do not therefore determine whether the sum was really due, and, whether, if due, it
is enforceable in a court of equity
There was a claim made in the discussion at bar that the
interest on the portion of the debt due Walker & Company,
which was embraced within the mortgage executed in Washington, bears ten per cent interest, and therefore should be
allowed at that rate. But this claim overlooks the fact that
the bill is founded upon the general account due Walker &
Company, and not upon the mortgage executed in Washington, which represented only a part of the debt. Besides, the
account due by Lloyd & Company to Walker & Company,
taken from the books of the latter firm, was offered in evideuce on the trial, and there is therein made only a charge
of six per cent interest, computed to a short time before the
filing of the bill. This is conclusive against the claim of
interest at the rate of ten per cent. There is also a reference in the record to several interest coupons collected on
the Memphis bonds by Brown prior to his death and subsequent to the unlawful return of the bonds to him, but the
averments of the bill taken in connection with the amendment electing to- assert the lien against the bonds in the
hands of Mrs. Brown, as they were when received from Jier
husband, precludes any questions which might otherwise arise
on this subject.
As the M emphis bonds are admittedly in the hands of Mrs.
Brown as a gift from her husband, the enforcement of the

UNITED STATES v. SA.NTA F2.
Opinion of the Court.

lien thereon presents no question as to the jurisdiction of a
court of equity over the estate of a decedent.
It follows from the foregoing that the court below erred

in refusing to recognize the claim of the complainants and to
enforce in their favor a lien on the Memphis bonds in the

hands of Mrs. Brown, and for the errors in these particulars
the decree must be

Reversed, and the case remanded to the trzaZ courtfor further
.proceedings not snconsistent wi.th thts optnton.

UNITED STATES v. SANTA FE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.

No. 208. Argued January 7, 8, 1696.-Decided March ], 189T.
The Spanish law did not, proprio wgore, confer upon every Spanish villa or
town, a grant of four square leagues of land, to be measured from the
centre of the plaza of such town.
Although, under that law, all towns were not, on their organization, entitled by operation of law, to four square leagues, yet, at a time subsequent to the organization of Santa F6, Spanish officials adopted the
theory that the normal quantity which might be designated as the limits
of new pueblos, to be thereafter created, was four square leagues.
The rightg of Santa F6 depend upon Spanish law as it existed prior to the
adoption of that theory.
An inchoate claipi, which could not have been asserted as an absolute right
against the government of either Spain or Mexico, and which was subject
to the uncontrolled discretion of Congress, is clearly not within the purview of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, creating the Court of Private
Land Claims; but the duty of protecting such imperfect rights of property rests upon the political department of the government.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
-Hr Asaostant Attorney General Dckznmson, and 3.
G Reynolds for appellants.

Matthew

X7' T B. Catron and Air William BI. Pope for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

