GERMANIA IRON CONPANY v; UNITED STATES.

379

Statement of the Case.

was nothing upon Which any suggestion Of any inferior degree
of homicide could be made, and therefore the court was under
no obligation (indeed it would simply have been-confusing the
minds of the jury) to give any instruction upon amatter
which was not really open for their consideration. Sacrf v
United State8, 156 U. S. 51, 63, Stvenon v United State8,
162 LT. S. 313, 315.
These are all the matters presented by the assignments of
error, and all the questions of any importance disclosed by the
record. We find no error in the rulings of the court, and its.
judgment is, therefore,
Affrmed.

GERMANIA IRON COMPANY v. UNITED
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

STATES.

FOR THE EIGHTH

CIRCUIT.
No: 52. Argued October 20, 1896. -Decided

February 15, 189.

When, while disputed matters of fact concerning a tract of public land, or
the priority of right of claimants thereto, are pending unsettled in the
land department, a patent wrongfully issues for the tract through madvertence or mistake, by which the jurisdiction conferred by law upon the
land department over these disputed questions of. fact is lost, a court of
equity may rightfully interfere, and restore such lost jurisdiction by cancplling the patent.

Oi November 20, 1889, a patent was issued by the United
States to Thomas Reed for the southwest quarter of .the northeast quarter and lots 1 and 2 of section 30, township 63, north
of range 11 west, containing one hundred and twelve acres, in
the Duluth land'district of the State of Minnesota. On October 13, 1891, the United States filed in the Circuit Court of
the District of Minnesota a bill in equity to set aside such
patent, making Thomas Reed the. patentee and the appellants
in this case parties defendant. These appellants claimed title
by conveyances from Reed. Reed made default in the suit,
but the appellants appeared and answered, and to their answer

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

a replication was filed. Whereupon, some testimony having
been taken, the case was submitted to the court with certain
-stipulations of fact, and upon the pleadings and these stipulations a decree was entered sustaining the bill and cancelling
the patent. -On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals this
decree was affirmed, 19 U. S. App. 10, and thereafter an appeal
was taken to this court.
The facts as shown by the pleadings and stipulations are
these On July 21, 1885, Orilie Stratn, formerly Mforeau, attempted to make a location of the land in controversy with
Sioux half-breed scrip. The validity of these locations was
-contested by other parties, and on February 18, 1889,-the Secretary of the Interior, who had jurisdiction over the matter
and the parties, canoelled such scrip locations, and ordered that
the laud be held for disposal under the public land laws of the
United States. On February 23, 1889, Thomas Reed applied
to make a soldier's additional homestead entry of the lands,
which application was sustained by the-local land officers, and
a final certificate issued to him on that day "At the same
time that Reed made his entry Charles P. Wheeler applied to
locate the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of said
section 30 with Valentine scrip," and "Warren Wing had
applied to enter lot two of said section 30 under ยง 2306, Rev
-Stat."
"On the morning of the day when the Reed entry
*was allowed William M. Stokes was, among other applicants
to make various kinds of entries before and at the time of, the
.opening of the doors of the local land office at Duluth, preseit
at said doors and attempting to enter
said southwest
- quarter of the northeast quarter of said section 30 as a sol-dier's additional homestead." The applications of Wheeler,
Wing and Stokes were severally denied, and appeals were
taken from such denials to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office.
On February 18, 1889, the time of the decision by the Secretary of the Interior in respect to the attempted location by
Orilie Strain, and ever since, there has been in existence in the
Department of the Interior a rule that motions for review of
-decisions of the Secretary of the Interior should be filed in the

GERMANIA IRON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

381

Statement of the Case.

office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and
that the Commissioner should thereupon suspend action under
the decision sought to be reviewed. Motions for review of the
decision of date February 18 were duly made and filed on
March 13 and 15, 1889; respectively, by the parties affected
adversely by said decision. Thereupon an order was made.
suspending all action under the decision sought to be reviewed,
and such order was of force and such motions were pendingunheard and undetermined at the time and after the issuing
of the patent sought to be cancelled, and the patent was issued
in direct violation or in ignorance of such order. At the timeof the issue of such patent the appeals of Wheeler, Wing and
Stokes were also pending unheard and undetermined, and have
not been since heard or determined.
"While said appeals and motions were pending and undisposed of, a clerk of the General Land Office at Washington,
whose duty it was to examine entries of the character described,
in ignorance of the pendency of said conflicting claims, said
motions and said appeals, approved the lands described in the
said patent for patenting to Thomas Reed, one of the defendants hereto and a patent was, upon such approval, issued to.
him on the 20th day of November, 1889, that said patent was.
signed by the secretary to the President and countersigned by
the recorder of the General Land Office, each of whom, at thetime they signed and countersigned said patent as aforesaid,
was in ignorance of the pendency of the aforesaid conflicting claims, and acted wholly upon the said approval of
said clerk. The. approval of the entry for patent and the
signatures to the patent were made, notwithstanding the fact.
that a caveat pointing out the conflicts was on file with the
rest of the entry papers relating to the lands involved and
such approval and signatures were made in ignorance of the.
contents of said caveat."
The appellants made no claim as bona fide purchasers, and
the case stood as though it were a proceeding against the
patentee alone. So faras it bore on the question of good faith,
it was admitted that the land was worth $75,000, as alleged
in the bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

.Ar William IV Billson for appellants.
Mr Assistant Attorney General DJ kznson for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellants contend that this bill cannot be sustained because,
first, no fraud is proved or even charged against the-patentee,
.econd, there is no showing that the other applicants for these
lands had or have any rights superior to the patentee; third,
that it is neither proved nor alleged that the patentee was not
,equitably as well as legally entitled to the lands, fourth, that
the utmost that appears is the premature issue of a patent
-through mistake and inadvertence and in disregard of one of
the rules of the department, and that such matters lay no
foundation for the interposition of a court of equity unless
-accompanied by a trespass on some substantial right. They
insist that a vendor cannot ask the aid of a court of equity to
avoid his deed on the mere ground of irregularity on the part
of his agents unless he also shows that the grantee in such
deed was not equitably entitled to the conveyance, that courts
never attempt to do a useless thing, and that it would be idle
to enter a decree cancelling a patent, when for aught that
appears it would be the duty of the government, after some
formal proceedings and compliance with certain regulations,
-to reissue to the patentee a patent for the same lands. In
other words, their contenTion is that this whole litigation is
merely a dispute about form and order of proceeding, and not
about substantial rights. Many authorities from this court
-and others are cited showing the conditions under which
-courts of equity will interfere to cancel patents and deeds on
the ground of fraud, or by reason of other facts showing that
the patenltee or grantee is not of right entitled to the land.
We have no disposition to weaken the force of these authorities, or to question their control in cases to which they are
applicable. A patent from the United States is a solemn
inuniment of title not lightly to be challenged or set aside,
and all that has been heretofore said in support of the sanctity
-of such an instrument we reaffirm.

GER14ANIA IRON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

383

Opinion of the Court.

But the theory of this bill is outside the scope of all such
cases. It does not rest upon doubtful and uncertain testimony The facts are conceded, and there is, therefore, certainty as to what they are. The only question presented is
as to the right which flows from these undisputed and admitted facts. It is in effect a suit by the government to
restore to a tribunal to which it has committed exclusive jurisdiction over certain matters -that jurisdiction which through
inadvertence and mistake it has been deprived of. "Relief,
when deeds or other instruments are executed by mistake or
inadvertence of agents, as well as upon false suggestions, is a
common head of equity jurisprudence." Hughes v. United
States, 4 Wall. 232, 236. Congress has entrusted to the land
department the disposal of the public lands, and has invested
the officers of thlat department with exclusive jurisdiction over
many things in connection with such disposition. Their de7
termination in respect to questions of fact in all matters of
contest is exclusive and final. The issue of a patent is in
effect the final determination of that department in favor of
the patentee and against the contestants of all disputed questions of fact -a determination which it is not the function
-of courts to review except upon conditions of fraud, etc.,
which permit courts of equity to investigate and pass judgment upon all determinations of all tribunals. By inadvertence and mistake a patent in this case has been issued, and
the effect of such issue is to transfer the legal title and remove
from the jurisdiction of the land department the inquiry
into and consideration of such disputed questions of fact.
The contention of the appellants-is substantially that the
courts must consider and determine those disputed' questions
of fact and exercise a jurisdiction not committed to them,
before they restore to the land department the jurisdiction
of which it has been wrongfully deprived. But why should
the courts be called upon to consider and determine questions
of fact, and after a determination adversely to the patentee
relegate the matter for reexamination and determination in
the land department
Is not the duty of the court fully
i)erformed when it ascertains that through such inadvertence

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opimon of the Court.

and mistake the department which has jurisdiction over such
matters has been deprived thereof It restores -to such department its lost jurisdiction and leaves to the tribunal designated by Congress the 'full power to discharge the duties
conferred upon it. It is true that it does not affirmatively
appear in this case that the patentee was not entitled equitably to the land, or that the contestants had any superior right
thereto,. but his rights and their rights depend upon questions
of fact, such as priority of application, etc., the determination
of which by act of Congress has been committed to the land
department. It and not a court of equity is the tribunal entrusted by the law with jurisdiction over such matters, and
the latter may not inquire what ought to have been the determination of the former, but *hether it has been wrongfully
deprived of the power to make such determination.
The question is not one simply between the government
and the patentee-a vendor and vendee-such as was presented in Urnted States v Railroad Company, 26 Fed. Rep.
479. In that case there were no adverse or contesting rights,
equitably ttie patentee was entitled to the land, and the'only
real objection was that the patent had been prematurely
issued. A court might properly decline to set aside a patent
when it affirmatively appeared that immediately after such
action it would be the duty of the department to issue a new
one. Here there are adverse claimants, there are contestants
of the patentee's right, and the mere existence of a question
of contested fact, the mere fact of a dispute between several
parties, is sufficient ground for a court of equity returning the
matter for examination to the tribunal which Congress has
created for such purposes. This is not a mere matter of procedure between the government and the patentee, bvt a question of the forum for the adjudication of controversies between
individual litigants.
The case of Badeau v. United States, 130 U. S. 439, is not
in point, for there the only question was one between the
United States and -the claimant, and involved simply the
amount of money due to the latter. The case of Williams v.
United States, 138 U. S. 514, is more in point, for in that case

GERMA.NLIA. IRON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

385

Opinion of the Court.

this court sustained a decree. cancelling a patent although no
fraud was shown, and its issue was simply owing to inadvertence and mistake, We are of the opinion that the ruling of
the Circuit Court and the Court of Appeals was correct, that
the matters of fhct involved in these contests should be settled
by the land department, that when through inadvertence and
mistake a patent has been wrongfully issued, by which the
jurisdiction of the land department over these disputed questions of fact is lost, a court of equity may rightfully interfere
and restore such lost jurisdiction, to do which it becomes necessary to cancel the patent.
To deny relief in this case would open the door to iianyr
possibilities of wrong. It appears that although an order had
been mide to suspend all action in respect to the application
for this patent, somehow or other the clerk having charge of
the proceedings in respect to it was ignorant of such order,
and that although in the papers handed to him was the foirmal
entry of an appearance for a contestee, he failed to examine
such instrument, and assumed that it was a mere entry of an
appearance in behalf of the applicant. Upon the showing
mada in this case he was innocent of wrong intent, but if such
omission can be operative to deprive the land department of
its appropriate jurisdiction, it affords too strong an inducement
for an intentional omission, proof of which may well be beyond the power of the government. The -decree of the Court
of Appeals is
Affirmed..
MR.JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument and. took
no part in the decision of this case.
VOL. cLXv-25

