SCOTT v. DONALD.
Syllabus.

tion that the complaints in this case emanate from a citizen of
South Carolina, who seeks to defy the law of his own State,
and puts forward as his excuse the injustice done the citizens
of other States who make no complaint of her action in this
particular. If a State cannot prohibit her own citizens from
importing liquors, as well as buying them at home, the
"Wilson bill" is set at nought, and the prohibitory laws of
the several States rendered inoperative in a vital particular.
The fact that these liquors were imported for complainant's
own use and consumption, instead of for sale, raises no question
under the Federal Constitution. Both are under the ban of
the statute.
I am unable to see wherein that section of the dispensary
act of South Carolina, which authorized the seizure made in
tns case, conflicts in any particular with the Federal Constitution.
M .JusTIcE BREWER did not hear the argument and took
no part m the decision of these cases.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT

OF

STATES

FOR

SOUTH 'CAROLINA.

No. 410. Argued October 21, 22,1896.-Decided January 18, 1897.

Where a suit is brought against defendants who claim to act as officers
of a State, and, under color of an unconstitutional statute, commit acts
of wrong and injury to the property of the plaintiff, to recover money or
property in their hands unlawfully taken by them in behalf of the State;
or for compensation for damages; or, in a proper case, for an injunction
to prevent such wrong and injury; or for a mandamus in a like case to
enforce the performance of a plain legal duty, purely ministerial, such
suit is not, within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution, an action against the State.
Circuit Courts of the United States will restrain a state officer from executing an unconstitutional statute of the State when to execute it would
be to violate rights and privileges of the complainant that had been guar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.
anteed by the Constitution and would do irreparable damage afd injury
-to him.
In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, affirmed and followed on these points.
It was alleged in the bill, and there was evidence to show, that the complainant intended to import for his own use, from time to time as he
might need the same, ales, wines and liquors, the products of other
States, of the value exceeding two thousand dollars, which were threatened to be seized by the state constables, claiming to act under the dispensary law; and the agreed statement of facts contained the following
statements "Previous to filing of-bill and temporary injunction granted
im this case the state constables seized, intended and threatened to seize
in future, all intoxicating liquors whatsoever coming into the Btate from
other States and foreign countries, and to carry out in full all the provisions of the dispensary law of January 2, 1895; and the value of the
right of importation of ales, wines and other liquors, products of other
States and countries, is of the value of two thousand dollars and upwards; and the difference itn the price to.the consumer,, like the plaintiff,
of such liquor 'bought at the state disnensary of South Carolina and
bought out of the State is about fifty to seventy-five per cent in favor of
imported liquors." Held, that such statements sufficiently concede that
the pecuniary value of plaintiff's rights in controversy exceed the value
of two thousand doars; and that it cannot be reasonably claimed that
the plaintiff must"postpone his application to the Circuit Court, as a
court of equity, until his property to an amount exceeding In value two
thousand dollars has been actually seized and conoscated, and when the
preventive remedy by injunction would be of no avail.
'The interest that will allow parties to join in a bill of complaint, or that
will enable the court to dispense with- the presence of all the parties,
when numerous, except a determinate number, is not 'nly an Interest in
the question, but one in common in the subject-matter of the suit -a
community of interest growing out of the nature and condition of the
right in dispute.
"he decree is also objectionable because it enjoins persons not Parties to
the suit; as this is not a case where the defendants named represent
those not named, and there is not alleged any conspiracy between the
parties defendant and &her unknown parties; but the acts complained
of are tortious, and do not grow out of any common action or agreement
between constables and sheriffs of the State of South Carolina.

Iw the.Circuit Court of the United States for the district of
South Carolina, on April 25, 1895, James Donald, a citizen of
the Uiited States and of the State of South Carolina, in Is own
behalf aud'oir behalf of all othev persons i the State of South
Carolitta, as importers for their own use and consumers of the
whiis,, ales'and spirituous liquors, the products of. other States
and foreign countries, filed a bill n equity against J.M. Scott,

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Statement of the Case.

M. T. Holley, E. C. Beach and R. M. Gardner, claiming to
act as constables of the State of South Carolina, and all other
persons whomsoever claiming to act as such constables or as
county sheriffs, municipal policemen or executive officers, or
in any capacity whatever, under or by virtue of an act of the
general assembly of the State of South Carolina, approved
January 2, 1895, and generally known as the "dispensary
law"
The bill alleged that the defendants named had, on several
occasions, seized and carried away packages of wines and
liquors belonging to the plaintiff, being products of the States
of New York, Maryland and California respectively, and imported by the plaintiff for his own use and consumption, and
not intended for sale, barter or exchange by the plaintiff
within the State of South Carolina, and that the defendants
claimed, in-so doing; to act by virtue of the said act of January 2, 1895, which act was alleged by the plaintiff to be void
and unconstitutional, and to furnish no protection to the said
defendants in their said acts of trespass and seizure. The bill
further alleged that the plaintiff had brought several actions
at law against the said defendants in the Circuit Court of the
United States for damages caused by the said unlawful acts,
which said suits were still pending, that notwithstanding the
bringing of said suits the said defendants, and others, constables of the State 6f South Carolina, have continued to seize.
and carry away ales, wines and spirituous liquors of the plaintiff and of other persons in the State of South Carolina, imported from other States and foreign countries, and threaten
to continue so to do. The bill further alleges that protection
of the plaintiff' rights .by actions at law involved a nultiplicity of suits against said constables, and that by said dispensary act the remedy of replevin was demed to the plaintiff
in the courts of South Carolina, and that all said constables
were wholly irresponsible financially and unable to respond
indamages, and that the plaintiff's constitutional rights, privileges and immunities were now being and are threatened to
be continually invaded and grossly violated without redress,
and ;to his irreparable injury The bill avers that the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

right to import wines and spirituous liquors for his own use
and consumptiof is of the money value of upwards of two
thousand dollars, and also that the value of said articles intended to be imported from other States and foreign countries
by this plaintiff for his own use and consumption, from time
to time, and which are threatened to be seized by said constables, exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars.
The plaintiff prayed for a preliminary and a final injunction,
restraining the defendants named, and all other persons claiming to act as constables, and -all sheriffs, policemen and other
officers, acting or claiming to act under said dispensary act,
from seizing and carrying away wines or spirituous liquors
imported or brought into the State of South Carolina for his
own use or consumption, and from forcibly entering, or attempting to search the dwelling house of the plaintiff for any
such articles, and from hindering and preventing the plaintiff
or any other person from. importing, holding, possessing and
iasing the said liquors so imported.
After argument a preliminary injunction was issued on May
9, 1895. The plaintiff had leave to amend his bill by adding the averment that the other said persons on behalf of
whom he sues, to wit, importers for their own use and consumers in the State of South Carolina of such ales, wines and
spirituous liquors as aforesaid, are too numerous to make parties complainant to the bill, and that some of them are unknown.
Subsequently the defendants pleaded to the jurisdiction of
the court, lst, because the suit is in effect a suit against the
State, 2d; because the bill presents no question arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, 3d, because the
bill presents no case upon which the jurisdiction of a court of
equity can be fbunded, there being plain and adequate remedies at law for the injuries complained of, and, 4th, because
plaintiff hath not made or stated in his bill a case to entitle
him to the relief prayed for. They also answered admitting
some and denying others of the allegations of the bill. A
replication was filed. Afterwards an agreed statement of
facts was filed. Among the facts so stated was the fact that,

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinio

of the Court.

in the several actions at law mentioned in the bill, final judgments against the defendants bad upon trial been obtained,
that notwithstanding said recoveries and notwithstanding the
pendency of this bill, other seizures of wines and liquors imported by the plaintiff and by other persons named had been
made, that the plaintiff testified that he-intend to import for
his own .use, from time to time, as he *may need the same,
ales, wines and liquors, the products of other States, of the
value exceeding $2000, which are threatened to be seized
by the state constables, claiming to act under the dispensary law, that the value of the right of importation of ales,
wines and other liquors, products of other States and countries, is of tlie value of $2000 and upwards, that the difference
in the price to the consumer, like the plaintiff, of such liquor
bought at the state dispensary of South Carolina, and that
bought out of the State, is about 50 to 75 per cent in favor of
imported liquors, that the defendants, state constables, who
have made the seizures, are all insolvent and financially irresponsible, except Chief Constable Holley, who had not personally made any seizure of- plaintiff's liquors, except the first
seizure.
The- case came on to be heard on the pleadings and the
agreed statement of facts, ai'd thereupon the injunction -theretofore granted was made perpetual. An assignment of errors
was filed and an appeal was allowed to this court. The case
was argued here with Nos. 411, 412 and 413, ante, 58.
Mr
illia, A. Barber, Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, for appellants.
Mr J P Eennedy Bryan for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SnIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Having, in the cases at law, in which the opinion has: just
been delivered, and for reasons therein given, reached the
conclusion that the dispensary law of South Cirolina, approved
January 2, 1895, is so far unconstitutional and void that this

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinon of the Court.

plaintiff can maintain an action at law against these defendants for' seizing his liquors, we are called upon now to consider
whether there is a valid remedy by way of injunction to restrain executive officers from continued and repeated acts of
trespass in seizing and carrying away, and confiscating for the
use of the State. the property of the,complainant so imported.
The bill prays for an injunction on the several grounds of
irreparable damage, that the acts complained of prevent the
exercise by the complainant of his right to import without
molestation lawful commodities, the products of other States,
to avoid multiplicity of suits, and the want of adequate remedies at law.
The onjections to proceedings against state officers by
injunction are that it is, in effect, proceeding against the State
itself, and that it interferes with the official discretion vested
in the officers. The answer to such objections is found in a.
long line of decisions of this court Osborn v The United
States Batik, 9 Wheat. 738, Dodge v. Wookey, 18 How 331,
Board of Lsquidaion' v MfcComb, 92 U. S. 531, Cummngs
v NYational Bank, 101 U. S. 153, Memphis & ILtle Bock
Rairoad v. Railroad Commnissners, 112 U. S. 609, 'irgizna Coujon cases, 114 U S. 269, 295, 315, Pennoyer v.
fe Connaugiy,140 U. S. 1, Belknap v. Schild, 161 U.S. 10, 18.
In re Tyler, 149 U S. 164, was a case where the receiver
of the South Carolina Railway Company filed a bill in equity
in the Circuit Court of the United States against the treasurers and sheriffs, eighteen in number, in the counties through
which the railroads in his possession passed, alleging that the
treasurers were about to issue tax executions and the sheriffs
about to levy and seize thereunder property of the railway
company for the- taxes for the fiscal year beginning November 1, 1890. The bill alleged that the taxes for that fiscal
year were unconstitutional and illegal in part upon various
grounds, that the levy and sale of the road would cause irreparable injury, that there was no adequate remedy at law,
that a multiplicity of suits would be necessary to protect his
"rights if he sued- at law, and prayed for an injunction against
the issue and levy of the tax warrants in question. After

SCOTT v.- DONALD.
Opimon or tne Court.

answer and full hearing, the court issued an injunction restraining Mf. V Tyler, sheriff of Aiken County, his deputies
and agents, from further intermeddling, interfering with, keeping and holding the personal property distrained upon by him
belonging to the petitioner, as reoerver4,and ordering that the
said property should be restored to the dustody'bf the receiver.
It is being shown subsequently by affidavits that Tyler refused
to comply with the injunction and continued to hold and.
detain said property, the court adjudged him guilty of contempt, imposed a fine upon him, and committed him to the
custody of the marshal of the court until he should pay said
fine or purge himself of his contempt. A petition for a writ
of ltabeaa corpus was filed in this court, and, upon the hearing
of the cause, it was mainly argued, on behalf of the petitioner,
that the proceedings in the Circuit Court were substantially
a suit against the State of 'South Carolina, and that by its
mandatory injunction upon its officers the court divested the
State of its possession.
This court denied the writ, and, speaking through the Chief
Justice, thus expressed the conclusion reached in the previous
cases, many of which were cited in the argument
"The object of this petition was to protect the property,
but even if it were to be regarded as a plenary bill in equity
properly brought for the purpose of testing the legality of the
tax, we ought to add that, in our judgment, it would not be
obnoxious to the objection of being a suit against the State.
It is unnecessary to retravel the ground so often travrersed by
this court in exposition and application of the Eleventh
Amendment. The subject was but recently considered in
Pennoyer v MeConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, in which .Mr. Justice
Lamar, delivering the opinion of the court, cites and reviews
a large number of cases. The result was correctly stated to be
that where a suit is brought against defendants who claim
to act as officers of a State, and, under color of an unconstitutional statute, commit acts of wrong and injury to the
property of the plaintiff, to recover money or property i:W
their hands unlawfully taken by them in behalf of the Btate
or for compensation for damages, or, in a proper case, for an
VOL CLXV-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

injunction to prevent such wrong and injury, or for a mandamus in a like case to enforce the performance of a plain legal
duty, purely ministerial, such suit is not, within the meaning
of the amendment, an action against the State.

"1And while it is conceded that the principle stated by Chief
Justice Marshall in the leading case of O8born v2 Bank of the
Unsted State, 9 Wheat. 788, that 'in all cases where jurisdiction ldepends on the party,-it is the party named in the record,'
and that the 'Eleventh Amendment is limited to those suits
in which a State is a party to the record,' had been qualified
to a certain degree in some of the subsequent decisions of this
court, yet it was also rightly declared that the general doctrine
there announced, that the Circuit Courts of the United Stateso
will restrain a state officer from executing an-unconstituional
statute of the State when to execute it would be to violate
rights and privileges of the complainant that had been guaranteed by the CMnstittion and would do irreparable damage
and injury to him, has never been departed from."
Suppose it established that the objections just mentioned
fail, it is suggested that jurisdiction did not exist in the Circuit Court because the value in controversy did not exceed
the sum of two -thousand dollars. It is alleged in the bill,
and there was evidence to show, that the complainant intends
to import for his own use, from time to time as he may need
the same, ales, wines and liquors, the lroducts of other States,
of the value exceeding two thousand dollars, which are threatened to be seized by the state constables, claiming to act
under the dispensary law "And the agreed statement of facts
contains the followvig statements "Previous to filing of bill
and temporary injunction granted in this case the state constables seized, intended and threatened to seize m future, all
intoxicating liquors )vhatsoeer 'coming into the State from
other States and foreign countries, and to carry out in full
all the provisions of the dispensary law of January 2, 1895,
and the value of the right of importation of*ales, wmes and
other liquors, products of other States and countries, is of the
value of two thousand dollars and upwards, and the difference
in the price to the consumer, like the plaintiff, of such, liquor

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

bought at the state dispensary of South Carolina and bought
out of the State is about fifty to seventy-five per cent in favor
of imported liquors."
Such statements sufficiently concede that the pecuniary
.value of plaintiff's rights in controversy exceed the value of
two thousand dollars. Nor can it be reasonably claimed that
the plaintiff must postpone his application to the Circuit
Court, as a court of equity, until his property to an amount
exceeding in value two thousand dollars has been actually
seized and confiscated, and when the preventive remedy by
injunction would be of no avail.
But while we think that the complainant was entitled to
an injunction against those defendants who had despoiled him
of his property, and who were threatening to continue so to
do, we are unable to wholly approve the decree entered in
this case.
The theory of the decree is that the plaintiff is one of a
class of persons whose rights are infringed and threatened,
and that he so represents such class that he may pray an injunction on behalf of all persons that constitute it. It is,
indeed, possible that there may be others in like case with
the plaintiff, and that such persons may be numerous, but such
a state of facts is too conjectural to furnish a safe basis upon
which a court of equity ought to grant an injunction. We
prefer to accept, in this respect, the views expressed by Mr. Justice Nelson, in the case of Cutting v Gilbert 5 Blatchford, 259,
261. There a bill had been filed by several bankers, as well
for themselves as all others in the same interest, against the
assessor and collector of a certain tax under the ninety-ninth
section of the Internal Revenue Act of June 30, 1861, seeking
to restrain the collection of such tax as illegal, and the learned
justice disposed of the question in the following language
"This is a bill of peace to quiet the rights of parties, and to
put an end to further litigation. The bill is founded on the
idea that all persons in business as brokers, or who are bankers
doing business as brokers, cnarged with the tax in question,
have such a unity or joinder of interest in contesting it, that
all may join in the bill for that purpose, and that as the

OCTOBER TER-M, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

parties are so numerous as to make it inconvenient to join all
of them, a determinate number may appear in the name of
themselves and for the rest. I have not been able to concur
in this view The interest that will allow parties to join in a
bill of complaint, or that will enable the court to dispense with
the presence of all the parties, when numerous, except a determinate number, is not only an interest in the question, but
one in common m the subject-matter of the suit, such as the
case of disputes between the lord of a manor and his tenants,
or-where several tenants of a manor claim the profits of a fair,
or between the tenants of one manor and those of another, or
in a suit to settle a general fine to be paid by all the copyhold tenants of a manor, in order to prevent a multiplicity of
.suits. In all these and the like instances given in the books,
there is a community of interest growing out of the nature
and condition of the right in dispute, for, although. there may
not be any privity between the numerous parties, there is a
common title out of which the question arises, and which lies
In the case
-at the foundation of the proceedings.
.before me, the only matter in common among the plaintiffs,
or between them and the defendants, is an interest in the
question involved, which alone cannot lay a foundation for
the joinder of parties. There is scarcely a suit at law, or in
equity, which settles a principle or applies a principle to a
given state of facts, or in which a general statute is interpreted,
that does not involve a question in which other parties are
interested, as, for instance, the. doctrine of trusts, and the statutes of 'descents, of frauds, of wills and the like, yet no lawyer
would contend that such an interest would justify a joinder of
parties as plaintiffs, in a case arising under the law of trusts,
or under any of the statutes mentioned. The same may be
said of questions arising under the revenue, laws, such as the
tariff and the excise laws, and which are the subject of litigation in the courts almost daily Large classes of persons, other
than the parties to the suit, are interested in the questions
involved and determined. To Allow them to be made parties
to tte suit would confound the established order of judicial
proceedings, and lead to endless perplexity and confusion."

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

Similar views prevailed in the case of Baker v. City of Portland, 5 Sawyer, 566, where it was held by District Judge
Deady, Mr. Justice Field concurring, that any number of
persons who may from time to time be engaged m making
street improvements under several and distinct contracts With
a city are not therefore a class of persons having a common
interest in the subject of street improvements, concerning
which any one or more may sue for the whole.
The decree is also objectionable because it enjoins persons
not parties to the suit. This is not a case where the defendants
named represent those not named. Nor is there alleged any
conspiracy between the parties defendant and other unknown
parties. The acts complained of are tortious, and do not grow
out 9f any common action or agreement between constables
and sheriffs of the State of South Carolina. We have, indeed,
a right to presume that such officers, though not named in this
suit, will, when advised that certain provisions of the act in
question have been pronounced unconstitutional by the court
to which the Constitution of the United States refers such questions, voluntarily refrain from enforcing such provisions, but
we do not think it comports with well-settled principles of
equity procedure to include them in an injunction in a suit in
which they were not heard or represented, or to subject them
to penalties for contempt in disregarding such an injunction.
Fellows v Fellows, 4 John. Chan. 25, citing .lveson v Harws,
7 Ves. 257.
The decree of the court below should therefore be amended
by being restrited to the parties named as plaintiff and defendants in the bill, and- this is directed to be done, and it is
otherwise
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROwN

dissented, for the reason given by him

in his dissent in Scott v Donald, ante, 102.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision of this case.

