PRICE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

PRICE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 625. Submitted January 19,1897.-Decided February 15, 1897.

The Indictment in this case is sufficient because it does, in fact, contain a
charge that the book was obscene to the knowledge of the defendant
who knowingly and wilfully, with such knowledge, deposited it in the
mail, and thus violated Rev. Stat. § 3893. Rosen v. United States, 161
U. S. 29, followed.
Andrews v. United States, 162 U. S. 420, followed to the point that, on the
trial of a person indicted for a violation of the provisions of Rev. Stat.
§ 3893, touching the mailing of obscene, lewd or lascivious books, etc.,
It is competent for a detective officer of the Post Office Department, as
a witness, to testify that correspondence was carried on with the accused
by him through the mails for the sole purpose of obtaining evidence from
him upon which to base the accusation.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr Tarren E. Przee in person for plaintiff in error.
.Mr Assl8tant Atorney General DzTcznson for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAx

delivered the opinionof the court.

The plaintiff was indicted under section 3893 of the Revised
Statutes, for depositing in the mails of the United States obscene, lewd and lascivious matter. After trial, he was convicted and sentenced to eighteen months' Imprisonment in the
California state prison, and to pay a fine of $500. Upon writ
of error sued out from this court the record is now before us
for review
The indictment contained five counts, the first, second and
fourth of which charged the defendant with giving informatiori as to where obscene matter might be obtained, and the
third and fifth charged him, with depositing such matter
in the mails. A motion was made before trial to quash all'
the counts 'of the indictment, and it was granted as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

first, second and fourth, and denied as to the third' andf fifth
counts. The defendant then demurred to the indictment on
the ground that it did not charge that the matter was nonmailable, nor did it charge that. it was obscene or lewd or
lascivious or of an indecent character. The demurrer was
overruled and the parties went to trial. After his conviction
of the offence stated in the third and fifth counts the defendant moved in arrest of judgment on the ground, among other
things, that it was nowhere in either of these counts alleged
that the book or pamphlets, or either of them, was in fact
obscene, lewd or lascivious, or of an indecent character, and
that they were non-mailable matter. The motion was overruled and the defendant sentenced as above stated.
There are but two grounds upon which the sufficiency of
the indictment is attacked, the first being that there is no
direct allegation in either count that the defendant knew that
the book that he deposited in the mail was obscene or lewd
or lascivious, the only charge being, as is claimed, that he
knowingly deposited a book, the contents of which were, as
a matter of fact, lewd and lascivious, the point being the
alleged absence of any charge that he knowingly deposited
a book which in fact was obscene, lascivious and lewd, and
which he knew was of that character.
The further ground is taken that there is in truth no allegation that the matter was obscene or lewd or lascivious, but
the indictment contains nothing more than a mere expression
of the opinion of the pleader that it was so obscene as to be
unfit for repetition in the indictment.
We think there is no force in either contention. The plain
meaning of the indictment is that the defendant deposited in
the mails a book- which he knew to be obscene, and that in
truth it was obscene, and so much so as to render it improper
and offensive to place the same upon the public record of the
court. The indictment is substantially like the one which we
held to be sufficient in .Rosen'8case, 161 U. S. 29. The indictment in that case, as it is set forth in the report, states that
the accused, on the 24th day of April, 1893, within the Southern District of New York, "did unlawfully, wilfully and know-

PRICE v. UN'TITED STATES.
0piiItMZof the Court.

ingly deposit and cause to be deposited in the post office of
the city of New York, for mailing and delivery by the post
office establishment of the United States, a certain obscene,
lewd and lascivious paper, which said paper then and there,
on the first page thereof, was entitled 'Tenderloin Number,
Broadway,' and on the same page were printed the words
and figures following- that is to say 'Volume 11, number
27, trade-mark, 1892, by Lew Rosen, New York, Saturday,
April 15, 1893, ten cents a copy, $4.00 a year in advance',
and thereupon, on the same page, is a picture of a cab, horse,
driver and the figure of a female, together (underneath the
said picture) with the word 'Tenderloineuse,' and the said
paper consists of twelve pages, minute descriptions of which,
with the pictures therein and thereon, would be offensive to
the court and improper to spread upon the records of the
court, because of their obscene, lewd and indecent matters,
and the said paper on the said twenty-fourth day of April, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and ninety-three, was
enclosed in a wrapper and addressed as follows - that is to
say ' Mr. Geo. Edwards, P 0. box 510, Summit, N. J' against the peace of the United States and their dignity, and
contrary to the statute of the United States in such case made
and provided."
In that case we held that the general charge that defendant
unlawfully, wilfully and knowingly deposited and caused to
a certain obscene,
be deposited in the post office
lewd and lascivious paper, as therein described, might not
unreasonably be. construed as meaning that the defendant
was, and must have been, aware of the nature of its contents
at the time he caused it to be put into the post office for
transmission and delivery Mr. Justice Harlan, in delivering
the opinion of the court in that case, said "Of course he did
not understand the Government as claiming that the mere
depositing in the post office of an obscene, lewd and lascivious
paper was an offence under the statute, if the person so depositing it had neither knowledge nor notice, at the time, of
its character or contents. He must have understood from the
words of the indictment that the Government imputed to him

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

knowledge or notice of the contents of the paper so deposited.
In their ordinary acceptation, the -words 'unlawfully, wilfully
and knowingly,' when applied to an act or thing done, import
knowledge of the act or thing so done, as well as an evil intent or bad purpose in doing such thing, and when used in an
indictment in connection with the charge of having deposited
in the mails an obscene, lewd and lascivious paper, contrary
to the statute in such case made and provided, could not have
been construed as applying to the mere depositing in the mail
of a paper the contents of which at the time were wholly
unknown to the person depositing it. The case is, therefore,
not one of total omission from the indictment of an essential
averment, but, at most, one of the inaccurate or imperfect
-statement of a fact, and such statement, after verdict, may
be taken in the broadest sense authorized by the words used,
even"if it be adverse to the accused."
A distinction is attempted to be taken between the 1?086n
ease and the one at bar for the reason, as is stated, that the
indictment in °the former case contained a direct charge that
the defendant did deposit in the post office a certain obscene,
lewd and lascivious paper, whereas in this case no such charge
is made, but only that the defendant knowingly deposited,
etc., a printed book and pamphlet "the character of which is
so obscene, lewd and lascivious that said book would be offensive if set forth in full in this indictment." In other words, it
is said that when an indictment contains a charge that a book
"is so obscene, lewd and lascivious" that it would be offensive to set it forth in full m the indictment, it is not thereby
charged that the book was in fact obscene, lewd or lascivious.
It takes stronger eyes than we possess to discover any real
and material difference in the meaning of the two expressions.
The plain English of an allegation that a book is so obscene
and indecent as to be offensive if set forth in full in an indictment and placed upon the records of the court, is that the
book is obscene in fact and to the degree described. No one
denies that there are degrees of obscenity, any more than
that two and two make four, but when a book is stated to be
so obscene that it would be offensive if set forth in full in an

PRICE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

indictment, such allegation imports a sufficient degree of
obscenity to render the production non-mailable and obscene
under the statute.
This indictment is sufficient, because it does, in fct, contain a charge that the book wasobscene, to the knoWledge of
the defendant, who knowingly and wilfully, with such knowledge, deposited it in the mail and thus violated the statute.
No one, on reading the third and fifth counts of the indictient, could come to any other conclusion in regard to their
meaning, and when this is the case an indictment is good
enough.
There is no danger of the defendant in such case being
deprived of any of his just rights by holding the indictment
to be good. If there were any defect at all in such an indictment it should, as was stated, in the Rosen case, be regarded
after verdict as one of form under section 1025 of the Revised
Statutes, providing that the proceedings on an indictment
found by a grand jury in any District, Circuit or other court
of the United States, shall not be affected "by reason of any
defect or imperfection in matter of form only, which shall not
tend to the prejudice of the defendant."
One further ground for a reversal is made by counsel for
plaintiff in error. It appears from the bill of exceptions that
the Government inspector who instigated the prosecution in
this case had been informed that the statute was being violated, and for the purpose of discovering the fact whether or
not the plaintiff in error was engaged in such violation, the
inspector wrote several communications of the nature of decoy
letters, which are set forth'in the record, asking the plaintiff
in error to send him through the mail certain books of the
character covered by the statute, which the plaintiff in error
did, as is alleged by the prosecution and as-has been found by
the verdict of the jury This has been held to constitute no
valid ground of objection. Rosen's case, supra, 161 U. S. at
page 42, Andrews v. United States, 162 U. S.420.
There is no error in the record, and the judgment of the
court below must be
A2 Wrned.

