OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
-

No. 649. Submitted December 11, 1896. -Decided February 1, 1897.

The provision in § 11 of the act of March 6, 1893, c. 171, of. the legislature
of Indiana, that on the failure or refusal of a telegraph company "to
pay any tax assessed against it in any county or township in the State,
in addition to other remedies peovided by law for the collection of taxes.
an action may be prosecuted in the name of the State of Indiana by the
prosecuting attorneys of the different judicial circuits of the State
.,
and the judgment In said action shall include a penalty of fifty
per cent of the amount of taxes so assessed -and unpaid," does not, as
to the penalty clause, contravene the Constitution of the United States;
and the questioi whether, in this case, that penalty was properly Included In the judgment rendered against the telegraph company was for
the determination of the state courts.
In enforcing the collection of taxes one rule may be adopted in ,respect of
the admitted use of one kind of property, and another rule in respect of
the admitted use of another, in order that all may be compelled to contribute their proper share to the burdens of government.
The amount of penalty to be enforced for non-payment of taxes Is a matter
within legislative discretion.

UIJDER an act of the general assembly of Indiana ef March
6, 1891, c. 99, in respect of the assessment and collection of
taxes* upon.all property within-the jurisdiction of the State, it
was provided that payment of the taxes in the year succeeding
their assessment might be made in two instalments, and a
penalty of ten per cent was denounced for the firstsix months
of delinquenqy and of an additional six per cent for the second
six months.
On.Marcb 6, 1893, an amendatory act was passed, c. ill,
providing for 'the taxatipn of telegraph, 'telephone, palace car,
sleepingcar, drawing-room car dining.car, express, fast freight
ani -joint stqck associations, companies, copartnerships and
corpoations/transactng business in the State,-of which s.ection 11 was as fblows

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. INDIANA. 305
Statement of the Case.

"In case any such association, copartnership or corporation
as named in this supplemental and amendatory act, shall fail
or refuse to pay any taxes assessed against it in any county or
township in the State, in addition to other remedies provided
by law for the collection of taxes, an action may be prosecuted
in the name of the State of Indiana by the prosecuting attorneys of the different judicial circuits of the State on the relation of the auditors of the different counties of this State, and
the judgment in said action shall include a penalty of fifty per
cent of the amount of taxes so assessed and unpaid, together
with reasonable attorney's fees for the prosecution of such
action, which action may be prosecuted in any county into,
through, over or across which the line or route of any such
association, copartnership, company or corporation shall extend, or in any county where such association, company, copartnership or corporation shall have an office or agent for
the transaction of business. In case such association, company, copartnership or corporation shall have refused to pay
the whole of the taxes assessed against the same by said state
board of tax commissioners, or in case such association, company, copartnership or corporation shall have refused to pay
the taxes or any portion thereof assessed to it in any particular county or counties, township or townships, such action may
include the whole or any portion of the taxes so unpaid in any
county or counties, township or townships, but the attorney
general may, at his option, unite in one action the entire amount
of the tax due, or may bring separate actions in each separate
county or township, or join counties and townships, as he may
prefer. All collection of taxes for or on account of any particular county made in any such suit or suits, shall be by said
auditor of State accounted for as a credit to the respective
counties for or on account of which such collections were made
by said auditor of State at the next ensuing settlement with
such county, but the penalty so collected shall be credited to
the general fund of the State, and upon such settlement being
made, the treasurers of the several counties shall, at their next
settleinehts, enter credits upon the proper duplicates m their
offices, and at the next settlement with such county report the
vOL. cLxv-20

OCTOBER TE RM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

amount so received by him in his settlement with the State,
and proper entries shall be made with reference thereto P'ovded, however, That in any such action the amount of the
assessment fixed by said state board of tax commissioners and
apportioned to such county, or apportioned by the county auditor to any particular township, shall not be controverted."
In December, 1893, the Western Union Telegraph Company
brought suit.against the auditors and treasurers of the various
counties in the State of Indiana through or in which its lines
extended, to enjoin the collection- of the taxes assessed for the
year 1893, on the ground that the act of 1893 was unconstitutional. This cause was decided in favor of the validity of the
law in the Circuit Court of larion County, from which an
appeal was takew to the Supreme Court of Indiana, where the
judgment was affirmed. 141 Indiana, 281. A writ of error
was sued out from this court to the Supreme Court of Indiana
to review that decision, and the judgmeift of that court was
affirmed. VWest. Un. Tel. Co. v. Taggart,163 U. S. 1.
In August, 1894, the telegraph company filed a bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana
against the auditor of the State of Indiana to enjoin him from
certifying to the auditors of the various countkes the assessments
on its property made by the state board of tax commissioners
for the year 1894, on the ground of the unconstitutionality of
the act of 1893. A demurrer was sustained to the bill, and .it
was thereupon dismissed.- 68 Fed. IRep. 588. From this
decree of the Circuit Court an appeal was taken to this court
and the cause docketed February 11, 1896, which appeal was
dismissed by appellant, December 7,.1896.
On May 7,1894, the State of Indiana brought suit against
the company in the Circuit Court of Marion County to recover
the taxes for 1893, and subsequently, on June 11, 1895, filed a
supplemental complaint, therein, seeking judgment for the
delinquent taxes for the year-1894. The State recovered judgment for the amount of the taxes and penalties thereon for
the years named, including the penalty of fifty per cent,
and the telegraph company appealed to the Supreme Court of
the State, where the judgment was affirmed. 44 N. E. Rep.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. INDIANA.

307

Opinion of the Court.

793. The cause was then brought to this court on writ of
error.
Mr.Samuel 0. Psckeng, _Mr WillardBrown and 26- 67uarlev
W WeIls for plaintiff in error.
.Mr William A. fetcham, Attorney General of the State
of Indiana, .r Alonzo Greene Smith and Air -Merrill-Moore8
for defendant in error.
MR. CHOFr JUSTICE F1ILLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Whether the fifty per cent penalty clause of the act of 1893
contravenes the Constitution of the United States is the question presented on this writ. If it does not, the question
whether that penalty was properly included in the judgment
rendered against the telegraph company was for the determination of the state courts.
The necessity of classifying the subjects of taxation in order
to reach uniform and just results, as far as possible, is not
denied, nor that the infliction of penalties on delinquency is a
usual and legitimate mode of compelling the prompt payment
of taxes. But the contention is that this provision fQr a fifty
per cent penalty is an arbitrary discrimination, not falling
within the principle of classification, and, therefore, open to
constitutional objection, as amounting to a denial of the equal
protection of the laws and a deprivation of property without
due process of law
The Supreme Court of Indiana was of opinion that by reason
of the differences in the nature of these companies and the
uses to which their property was devoted in the prosecution
of their business from other taxpayers and their property and
business, the legislature was justified in placing them in a
class by themselves and subjecting them to the particular
method of effecting collection by means of penalties and suit
for recovery of judgment for the delinquent taxes with
penalties added.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the act of Mfarch 6, 1891, taxpayers and their prop-

erty were variously classified in respect of the nature of their
business and property, as for instance, associations for banking
purposes not incorporated, were placed in one class, while the
shares of capital stock of banks located within the State,
whether organized under the laws of the-State or the United
States, were placed in another and assessed to the owners
thereof, special provision being made for the bank to retain
dividends belonging to the stockholders until the taxes should
be paid (Acts, Ind. 1891, c. 99, § 59, 60 to 66), insurance
companies, not organized under the laws of the State, were
placed in another class, and it was provided that any insurance
company failing or refusing for more than thirty days to render
an account for its premium receipts and pay taxes thereon,
should forfeit one hundred dollars per day for each day the
report was withheld or payment delayed, to be recovered in
an action, authority being also conferred on the auditor of
State to revoke the authority of the defaulting company to do
business (§ 67), express companies were placed in another class
and provision made for the forfeiture of -one hundred dollars
per day for failing to render the particular account provided
for and pay the required taxes thereon, to be recovered in an
action, the companies being prohibited from carrying on business until the payment was made. (§ 68:) Similar provisions
were made as to telegraph companies (§ 69), telephone compames (§70), and sleeping car companies (§ 71), and the same
in substance as to bridge and ferry companies (§ 72). Street
railroads, water-works, gas, manufacturing and mining companies, insurance companies and other associations incorporated
under the laws of the State, etc., were subjected to still a difU:Iroad companies (§§ 76 to 88),
ferent provision (§ 73).
and building, loan and savings institutions (§ 89), were also
placed in different classes.
The act of March 6, 1893, repealed* the sections of the prior
act relating to express, telegraph, telephone and sleeping car
companies, and, with other provisions, prescribed this fifty per
cent penalty and provided for an action for the delinquent
taxes and penalties, by way of securing collection. The ordi-

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. INDIANA.

309

Opinion of the Court.

nary remedies by leyy, distraint and sale were manifestly believed by the general assembly to be open, as to these compamesand their properties, to objection as interfering with the exercise
of their public functions, and directly impeding the transaction
of interstate commerce, and the impracticabiliiy of pursuing
the ordinary methods of collection, in view of that objection,
furnished a sufficient ground for the adoption of another mode
as better suited to the exigency because not involving the
suspension of the discharge of public duty in that regard.
It has been repeatedly laid down, as stated by Mr. Justice
Lamar, in Pac.ft Exprve8 Company v Seibert, 142 U. S. 339,
351, "that a system which imposes the same tax upon every
species of property, irrespective of its nature or condition or
class, will be destructive of the principle of uniformity and
equality in taxation and of a just adaptation of property to its
burdens", and it is equally true as to the particular means
taken to enforce the collection of taxes, one rule may be
adopted in respect of the admitted use of one kind of property
and another rule in respect of the admitted use of another, in
order that all may be compelled to qontribute their proper share
to the burdens of government.
As to railroad companies, it had been decided in Indiana
that, under existing statutes, neither the franchise and privileges of such companies, noroany lands, easements or things
essential to their existence, or necessary to the enjoyment of
their franchise, could be sold on execution to satisfy judgments
at law against 'them, while their rolling stock, when not in
actual use, was liable to seizure and sale, and that the legislature had deemed it the wiser course to leave the method of
coercing payment in each case to the flexible jurisdiction of a
court of chancery rather than to prescribe a method which
might be suited to one case and not to another. .Lousville,
Nfew .Albany and Chicago Railway Co. v Boney, 117 Indiana,
501.
In respect of the companies under consideraton, the infliction of a severe penalty and the recovery of judgment in a
suit for taxes and penalties, which judgment would bear interest (as it had been held delinquent taxes did not, Evansv'ille

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinon of the Court.

& Terre Haute Railroadv lMest, 139 Indiana 254), and could
be collected through the appointment of a receiver, by sequestration or otherwise, if in such manner as enabled the discharge
of public duties to be maintained, was assumed, on grounds of
public policy, to be the least objectionable and most efficient
course to be pursued.
Judgments having been rendered at law, whatever course
might be adopted, thereupon, for their collection would be
necessarily such as would conserve the public interest and
would not stay the operations the companies were organized
to carry on.
The amount of the penalty was a matter for the legislature
to determine in its discretion, .and the Supreme Court refers
to the imposition of penalties in other instances under the
statutes of Indiana, varying according to particular subjects
of taxation, apparently calculated to operate with quite as
much harshness.
It may, properly, be further remarked that these companies
.o.ld have avrcded incurring this liability since, if desirous of
testing the legality of the taxes assessed against them, they
could have paid them under protest and brought suits to recover back the money so paid, if unlawfully exacted, or applied
to the proper authorities for relief, adequate provision being
made by the laws of Indiana for the prompt return thereof
in case of the invalidity of the assessment, in whole or in part.
Stat. Ind. 1894, §§ 7915, 7916.
We are unable to discover any ground for holding that the
Federal Constitution was violated by this law, and agree in
the view which the Supreme Court of the State expressed in
the premises.
Judgment
affirmed.
MR. JUSTiCE

Ho'r,A

and Mi.

JusTiCn WHiTE

dissented.

