OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

WARNER VALLEY STOCK COMPANY v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 550. Argued December 17, 18, 1896. -Decided

January 11, 1897.

A bill in equity against the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, to restrain them from exercising further
jurisdiction with respect to the disposition of certain public lands, and
from further trespassing upon the plaintiff's right of quiet possession
thereof, and to compel the Secretary to prepare patents therefor to be
issued to the plaintiff, in accordance with law, and to the end that the
plaintiff's title may be quieted and freed from cloud, and for further
relief, abates, as to the Secretary, upon his resignation of his office, and
cannot afterwards be maintained against the Commissioner alone.

TEE case is stated in the opinion.
. " Frecderw D Mo enney for appellant. .Mr Samuel
James B.
F Phillips, .Mr Charles A. Cogswell and .r
McCrelli8 were with him on his brief.
Mrb Asszstant Attorney General Whitney and
General for appellees.
-r

Joseph -.

' Solicitor

McCmnon, .Mr John Mullam and .Atr

.fames H Iaydenm filed a brief for appellees.
Mr. JUSTICE GRAY dblivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity, filed January 15, 1896, in the
Supreme Court for the District of Columbia, by a corporation
of the State of Oregon, against Hoke Smith, Secretary of the
Interior, and Silas W Lamoreux, Commissioner of the General Land Office, both alleged in the bill to be citizens and
residents of the District of Columbia, and to be "sued for
acts done and threatened by them in their official capieity
respectively"

WARNER VALLEY STOCK COMPANY v. SMITH.

29

Opinion of the Court.

The prayer of the bill was "that the said Hoke Smith.
Secretary of the Interior, and Silas W Lamoreux, Commissioner of the General Land Office, their subordinates and
agents, may be restrained and enjoined from assuming to
exercise further jurisdiction with respect to the disposition
of lands described in Oregon swamp land lists No. 30 and No.
31, and from further trespassing upon your orator's right of
quiet possession thereof, and that said defendant Hoke Smith
may be commanded and enjoined to prepare for issuance unto
your orator, in accordance with law, patents for said lands, and
to the end that your orator's title to said lands may be quieted
and freed from cloud, and that such other and further relief
may be administered unto your orator as the peculiar necessities and circumstances of the case may require and merit."
By the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, c. 84, entitled
"An act to enable the State of Arkansas and other States
to reclaim the ' swamp lands' within their limits," it was
enacted that in each State the whole of the "swamp and
overflowed lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation, which
shall remain unsold at the passage of this act shall be, and
the same are hereby, granted to said State", and that it
should be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior as soon
as might be practicable, "to make out an accurate list and
plats of the lands described as aforesaid,, and transmit the
same to the governor of the State," and at his request, "cause
a patent to be issued to the State therefor, and, on that
patent, the fee simple to said lands shall vest in said State,
subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof." 9 Stat.
519. And by the act of March 12, 1860, 6. 5, the provisions
of the act of 1850 were extended to the State of Oregon,
"provided that the grant hereby made shall not include any
lands which the government of the United States may have
reserved, sold or disposed of (in pursuance of any law heretofore enacted) prior to the confirmation of title to be made
under the authority of said act." 12 Stat. 3.
The leading facts alleged in the bill were as follows The
lands in question were sold and conveyed by the State of
Oregon in 1883 and 1884, and passed by mesne conveyances

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to the plaintiff on January 15, 1892, in consideration of the
payment by it of the sum of $19,000. In 1888, these lands,.
having previously been selected by the State as swamp and
overflowed lands under the act of 1860, were certified by the
Surveyor General of the United States for Oregon to the Commissioner of the General Land Office. The Commissioner,
in March and April, 1892, prepared lists, numbered 30 and 31,
of these lands as swamp and overflowed lands, and submitted
them to John W Noble, then Secretary of the Interior, for
his appfoval. He approved both lists on April 9 and December 3, 1892, respectively, "subject to any valid adverse rights
that may exist to the tracts of land therein described", and
his approvals were noted upon the records of the General
Land Office, and a certified copy of the first list was forwarded
to the governor of Oregon, who by letter dated May 12, 1892,
requested that a patent of the lands in that list be issued to.
the State. Upon a petition filed December 29, 1892, by settlers upon the lands, claiming that they were not swamp and
overflowed lands at the date of the act of 1860, Secretary
Noble, on March 2, 1893, notwithstanding the plaintiff's protest agaanst his jurisdiction to do so, made an order revoking
and cancelling his approvals of the lists, and directing the
Commissioner to take proper steps to make the revocation
.and cancellation formally effective. On December 19, 1893,
his successor, the defendant Hoke Smith, decided that these
lands were not swamp and overflowed lands, and .that the
State had no claim to them as such, and therefore directed
the Commissioner to "cause all decisions, recommending or
holding for cancellation entries or declaratory statements,
upon the ground that the lands in contest were granted to
the State of Oregon as swamp and overflowed lands by the
act of March 12, 1860, to be set aside and annulled, and the
cases reinstated, and all contests based upon said ground
alone to be dismissed." 17 Land Decisions, 571. On October
10, 1894, a motion of the plaintiff for a review of that decision
was overruled by the Secretary, and on January 5, 1895, his
decision was promulgated by a letter from the Commissioner
to the local land officers in Oregon.

WARNER VALLEY STOCK COMPANY v. SMITH.

31

Opinion of the Court.

The principal contention in support of the bill was that by
the acts of Congress of 1850 and 1860 the title to all the
swamp and overflowed lands within the State of Oregon, not
reserved, sold or disposed of prior to the confirmation of title
under those acts, passed to and became vested in the State,
subject only to the identification by the Secretary of the Interior of the specific lauds as "swamp and overflowed lands,
made unfit thereby for cultivation," within the meaning of
those acts, that upon such identification, evIdenced by the
making out of accurate lists and plats of such lands, and the
transmission thereof to the governor of Oregon, the title became absolute in the State by relation as of March 12, 1860,
and could not be divested by any subsequent action -f the
Secretary, and that the duty imposed upon him to canse natents of lands so identified and listed to be issued to the State
upon the request of the governor was but ministerial,
A general demurrer to the bill was sustained, and a decree
rendered thereon for the defendants, by the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, and that decree was affirmed by
-the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia on June 11,
1896, upon the ground that the whole subject remained under
the control of the Secretary of the Interior until the execution
of the patent. 24 Washington Law Reporter, 392.
The plaintiff toolc an appeal to this court, and pending this
appeal the defendant Hoke Smith, on September 1, 1896, resigned the office of Secretary of the Interior.
That a petition for a writ of mandamus to a public officer
of the United States abates by his resignation of his office has
been determined by a series of uniform decisions of this court,
and has for years been considered as so well settled that in
some of the cases no opnion has been filed and- no official report published. Secretary v. .XcGarrahan,9 Wall. 298, 313,
Undted State; v Boutivell, 17 Wall. 604, 609, Commmsswners
v. Sellew, 99 U. S. 624, 626, United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S.
378, 408, Thompson v Unsted States, 103 U. S. 480, 484,
United States v Chandler, 122 U. S. 643, United States v
Lamont, 155 U. S. 303, 306, UnitedStates v. Long, 164 U S. 701.
The reasons for this conclusion, as stated by Mr. Justice

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Strong, delivering the unanimous judgment of the court, in
the leading case of Unsted Statme v Boutwell, which was a
petition, by the owner of an order upon the Treasury of the
United States, for a writ of mandamus to the Secretary of
the Treasury to pay it, were as follows "The office of a writ
of mandamus is to compel the. performance of a duty resting
upon the person to whom it is sent." "If he be an officer,
and the duty be an official one, still the writ is aimed exclusively against him as a person, and he only can be punished
for disobedience. The writ does not reach the office. It cannot be directed to it. It is, therefore, in substance a personal
action, and it rests upon the averred and assumed fact that
the defendant has neglected or refused to perform a personal
duty, to the performance of which by him the relator has a
clear right. Hence it is an imperative rule that, previous to
making application for a writ; to command the performance
of any particular act, an express and distinct demand or request to perform it must have been made by the relator or
prosecutor upon the defendant, and it must appear that lie
refused to comply with such demand, either in direct terms,
or by conduct from which a refusal can be conclusively iiferred. Thus it is the personal default of the defendant, that
warrants impetration of the writ, and if'a peremptory mandamus be awarded, the costs must fall upon the defendalit.
It necessarily follows from this, that on the death or retire,
ment from office of the original defendant, the writ must
abate, in the absence of any statutory provision to the contrary When the personal duty exists only so long as the
office is held, the court cannot compel the defendant to perform it after his power to perform has ceased. And if a successor in office may be substituted, he may be mulcted in costs
for the default of his predecessor, "without any delinquency of
his own. Besides, were a demand made upon him, he might
discharge the duty, and render the interposition of the court
unnecessary At all events, he is not in privity with his predecessor, much less is he his predecessor's personal representative." 17 Wall. 607, 608.
The case of a public officer of the United States differs in

WARNER VALLEY STOCK COMPANY v. SMITH.

33

Opinion of the Court.

this respect from that of a municipal board, which is a continuing corporation (although its individual members may be
changed) and to which in its corporate capacity a writ of
mandamus may be directed. As was said, in Commwnoners
v. SeUew, by Chief Justice Waite: "One of the objects in
creating such corporations, capable of suing and being sued,
and having perpetual succession, is that the very inconvenience which manifested itself in Boutwell's case may be
avoided." 99 U. S. 627. And in hompesom v. Unsted Sttes,
Mr. Justice Bradley said "The cases, in which it has been
held by this court that an abatement takes place by the expiration of the term of office, have been those of officers of the
Government, whose alleged delinquency was personal, and did
not involve any charge against- the Government whose officers
they were. A proceeding against the Government would not
lie." 103 U. S. 484, 485.
The main object of the present bill was to compel the defendant Hoke Smith, as Secretary of the Interior, to prepare
patents to be issued to the plaintiff for the lands in question.
The mandatory injunction prayed for was in effect equivalent
to a writ of mandamus to him. The reasons for holding a suit,
which has this object, to have abated, as to him, by his resignation, are as applicable to this bill in equity, as to a petition
for a writ of mandamus at common law Consequently, as
against the defendbant Hoke Smith, this suit must be held to
have abated by his resignation oi the office of Secretary of
the Interior.
It appears to us to be equally clear that the suit cannot be
maintained against the Commissioner of the General Land
Office alone.
By the Revised Statutes of the United States, the Secretary
of the Interior "is charged with the supervision of public business relating to," among other things, "the public lands, including mines." The Commissioner of the General Land
Office is to "perform, under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior, all executive duties appertaining to the surveying and sale of the public lands of the United States, or in
any wise respecting such public lands, and also such as relate
voT,. CLXv-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

to private claims of land, and the issuing of Patents for all
grants of landunder the authority of the government", and
likewise, "under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
is authorized to enforce and carry into execution, by appropriate regulations," every part of the provisions of Title 32
of rhe Revised Statutes, relating to public lands, not otherwise
specially provided for. Rev Stat. §§ 441, 453, 2478. The
phrase "under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,"
thus used in these statutes, as was said by Mr. Justice Lamar,
speaking for this court, "is not meaningless, but was intended
as an expression in general terms of the power of the Secretary to supervise and control the extensive operations of the
Land Department, of which he is the head. It means that,
in the important matters relating to the 'sale and disposition
of the public domain, the surveying of private land claims, and
the issuing of patents thereon, and the administration of the
trusts devolving upon the government, by reason of the laws
of Congress or under treaty stipulations, respecting the public
domain, the Secretary of the Interior is the supervising agent
of the government -to do justice to all claimants and preserve
the rights of the people of the United States." K'ugkt v.
Unsted States .and Assocaion, 142 U. S.161, 177, 178, Orohard v. Akhander,.157 U. S.372.
The present suit was avowedly brought against Smith as
Secretary and Lamoreux as Commissioner, for acts done and
threatened by them in their official charadter respectively
The prayer of the bill was for an injunction against both of
them from assuming to exercise further jurisdiction with respect to the disposition of the lands in question, and from
further trespassing upon the plaintiff's right of quiet possession
thereof; and that the defendant Smith be commanded to prepare patents therefor to be issued to the plaintiff, in accordance with law and to the.end that the plaintiff's title might.
be quieted and freed from cloud, and for further relief.
The purpose of the bill *as to control the action of the
Secretary of the Interior, the principal relief sought was
against him,.and the relief asked against the Commissioner
of the General Land Office was only incidental, and by way

WAR NER VALLEY STOCK COMPANY v. SMITH.

35

Opinion of the Court.

.of restraining hinm from executing the orders of his official
head. To maintain such a bill against the subordinate officer
alone, without joining his superior, whose acts are alleged to
have been unlawful, would be contrary to settled rules of
equity pleading. Calvert on Parties, (2d ed.) bk. 3, c. 13.
This is well exemplified by a decision of Lord Chancellor
Hardwicke. Under acts of Parliament, appointing commissioners to build fifty new churches, appropriating money to
support the ministers, and providing that the moneys appropiated should be paid to a treasurer, not one of the commissioners, but appointed by the Crown, and should be by him
disbursed and applied according to orders of the commissioners, Lord Hardwicke held that a bill by a minister -of one
of the churches to recover his stipend, and to have a fund in
the treasurer's hands invested as required by the acts, could
not be maintained against the treasurer alone, without joining
any of the commissioners, and said "This is one of the most
extraordinary bills I ever remember, and there is no foundation for relief, either in law or equity It is brought against
Mr. Blackerby, who is nothing but an officer under the commssioners for building the fifty new churches. It woula be
absurd if a bill should lie against a person who is only an
officer and subordinate to others, and has no directory power."
"I should think the commissioners only, and not the treasurer,
ought to have been parties, for it is absurd to make a person
who acts ministerially the sole party"
Vernon v. Blackerby,
2 Atk. 144, 146, S. C., Barnardiston Ch. 377.
This bill cannot be amended by making the present Secretary
of the Interior a defendant, because he was not in office before
the bill was filed, and had no part in the doings complained of.
As against the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
the bill does not strictly abate, as upon the disappearance, by
death or resignation, of the sole defendant in an action the
cause of which does not survive against representatives or
successors. But the bill cannot be maintained against the
Commissioner, because it shows no ground for relief against
him alone, and the Secretary of the Interior is not and cannot
now be made a party

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

The objection that the bill cannot be maintained against
the Commissioner alone being decisive of the case, it would
be inappropriate to express an opinion upon any of the graver
questions, fully argued at the bar, touching the jurisdiction
of the court, and the merits of the bill, or to leave the record
'insuch a shape as to appear to foreclose any of those questions. It is therefore
Ordered that the decree be reversed, and the case remanded,
with dtrection8 to dismiss the bill, with -costs,for 'want
of yropieryartes.
MIR. JusTIcE BREWER and MR.JUSTICE BRowN concurred in.
the result.

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THR
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 447. Submitted November 13, 1S96. -Decided

January 11, 189T.

When a person is notified that his case is to be brought before a grand jury,
he should proceed at once to take exception to its competency, and if he
has had no opportunity of objecting before bill found then he may raise
the objection by motion to quash or by plea in abatement; but in all
cases he must take the first opportunity in his power to make the objection. In this case the venire issued November 18, a second venire
December 2; the court opened December 3, the indictment was returned
December 12; the plea in abatement was filed-December 17. Held, that
it was too late.
An exception was saved as to the taking of notes -by A juryman; but, as
the record does not show that any notes were taken, there is nothing for
it to rest on.
On the trial of the president of a national bank, indicted for misapplication
of its funds, its cashier testified in his favor as to his financial condition
and standing. He was then asked-" do you know what his commercial
rating was at that time?" The question being objected to was ruled
out. Held, that the ruling was correct.
The same witness on cross-examination was asked why he had resigned
his position as cashier at a date named, which was after the acts corA-

