OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

right to review the proceedings (whatever they were) of the
Superior Court of San Francisco County The same objection
(among others) applies to this that we have stated in regard to
the other records.
There is no final judgment, such as is provided for in section 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and
there does not appear to have arisen any Federal question
whatever.
We have carefully looked through these entire records, notwithstanding the mass of -confusion which appears in all of
them. We find nothing which shows that we have jurisdiction in the cases, and for these reasons the various writs of
error must be
.DiMm88ed.

UNITED STATES v. BARNETTE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
No. 825. Submitted December 21, 196. -Decided January 25, 18T.

A lieutenant in the Navy, assigned by order of the Secretary of the Navy
to duty as executive officer of a vessel of the United States, furnished
by the Secretary of the Navy to the State of New York as a school ship,
is entitled to sea pay, as well while tile vessel is attached to a wharf in
the harbor of New York, as whire she is on a cruise, and although this
service is called, in the Secretary's order for his detail, "employment
on shore duty," and notwithstanding he is receiving pay from the State
as instructor in its nautical school upon the vessel.

THIS was a claim by a lieutenant in the Navy of the United
States for sea pay while on board the St. Mary's in the harbor
of New York. The facts found by the Court of Claims were
in substance as follows
The St. Mary's was a sailing vessel owned, and employed
by the United States, and had been furnished for educational
purposes by the Secretary of the Navy, upon the application
of the Governor of the State of New York, under the act
of Congress of June 20, 1871, c. 339, which is copied in the

UNITED STATES v. BARNETTE.
Statement of the Case.

margin.1 The command of the vessel was always retained
in an officer of the Inited States Navy The nautical school
upon this vessel was established by the board of education of
the city of .New York, under the statute of the State of New
York of July 1, 1882, c. 410, the material provisions of which
are likewise copied in the margin.2 The object of the nautl1 An act to encourage the establishment of public marine schools.

The Secretary of the Navy, to promote nautical education, is hereby
authorized and empowered to furnish, upon the application in writing of
the Governor of the State, a suitable vessel of the Navy, with all her
apparel, charts, books and instruments of navigation, provided the same
can be spared without detriment to the naval service, to be used for the
benelit of any nautical school, or school or college having a nautical
branch, established at each or any of the ports of New York, Boston,
.Philadelphia, Baltimore, Norfolk and San Francisco, upon the condition
that there shall be maintained at such port a school, or branch of a school,
for the instruction of youths in navigation, seamanship, marine enginery,
and all matters pertaining to the proper construction, equipment and sailing of vessels, or any particular branch thereof. And the President of
the United States is hereby authorized, when in his opinion the same can
be done without detriment to the public service, to detail proper officers of
the Navy as superintendents of, or instructors in, such schools. Provided,
that if any such school shall be discontinued, or the good of the naval
service shall require, such vessel shall be immediately restored to the
Secretary of the Navy, and the officers so detailed recalled. And provided further, that no person shall be sentenced to, or received at, such
schools as a punishment or commnuration of pumshment for crime. 18
Stat. 121.
2 SEC. 1068. The board of education are authorized and directed to
provide and maintain a nautical school in said city, for the education and
training of pupils in the science and practice of navigation, to furnish
accommodations for said school, and make all needful rules and regulations therefor, and for the number and compensation of instructors and
others employed thereit, to prescribe the government and discipline
thereof, and the terms and coditious upon which pupils shall be received
and instructed therein and discharued therefrom, and provide in all things
for the good management of said nautical school. And the said board
shall have power to purchase the books, apparatus, stationery and other
things necessary or expedient to enable said school to be properly and
succe, sfully conducted, and may cause the said school, or the pupils, or
part of the pupils thereof, to go on board vessels in the harbor of New
York, and take cruises ii or from said harbor, for the purpose of obtaining
a practical knowledge ii navigation and of the duties of mariners. And
the said board are hereby authorized to apply to the United States Gov

OCTOBER -TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

cal- school isto instruct young men -in maritime matters, so
as to fit them for any service connected with maritime life,
leaving them free to go-into the Navy, or into the merchant
marine. The instruction is in seamanship, navigation, .sailmaking and everything pertaining to iseaman's life.
The claimant, on January 1, 1891,reported to the commander of the St. Mary's, for duty as executive officer on
board of her, and there.served as such until October 24, 1893,
(the date of filing this petition,) in obedience to an order
signed by the Secretary of the Navy, dated- December 30,
1890, and i the usual form of orders assigning officers to
duty on school ships, as follows
"Navy Department, Washington, December 30, 1890. Sir"
You are detached from the Minnesota on the 31st instant,
and -will report to -Conimander A. S. Crowninshield on the
same day for duty as executive on board the nautical school
ship St. Mary's as the-relief of Lieut. C. 0. Cornwell. This
-employment on shore duty is required-by the public interests,
and such setvice will continue until the 31st of December,
1893; ulkss'it is otherwise ordered."
TAnougliout the claimant's service on the St. Mary's, he
received no orders, except from her commander, an officer
of the Navy, --and through him his junior officers received
the orders of the commander. Her complement of officers
was the commander, the executive officer, a lieutenant, an
ensign and a surgeon. Her crew consisted of twenty-two
ernment for the rdquisite use of vessels and supplies for the purpose
above. mentioned.
SEC. 1070. The board of education sliall
appoint annually at least three
of their.number, %vhoshall, subject to the control, supervision and approbation of th.e
board, constitute an exotive committee for the care, government and manggement of such nautical school, under rules and regulations
so prescribed, and whose duty it shall he, among other things, to recommeid the rules.and regulations which they deem necessary and proper for
such school.
SE.. 1071. After the establishment and organization of the said school,
the expenses thereof, and of carrying out the provisions of this chaptere,
shall b.e defrayed from the moneys raised by la for the support of common, scho~ls in-the city and county of New York. 2 New York Laws of
10o)
'

IWI

UNITED STATES v. BARNETTE.
Statement of the Case.

men of different grades and ranks, .all employed by the city
of New York. Her commander was required by .the regulations of the Navy to report semi-annually to the Secretary
of the Navy upon the conduct and professional ability of
his subordinate officers, and upon the efficacy of the men.
The St. Mary's, each year, went upon a cruise, lasting from
about the middle of May to some time in October; and during the rest of the year was attached to a dock in the harbor
of New York. While she was not cruising, the claimant
lived on board, and was on duty on board every day, wearing
his uniform, and doing the same duty, and subject to the
same regulations, as while the ship was on the high seas, and
in the matter of quarters, mess and uniform, there was no
difference, whether the vessel was under sail, or lying at
anchor, or tied to a wharf. The claimant's duties as executive officer were the care and preservation of the ship, looking
after the crew, and attending to the details of the organization and police of the ship.
The claimant also acted as instructor of the pupils of the
nautical school on board the St. Mary's, and was paid for
his services in that capacity by the board of education of the
city of New York.
In the routine of the Navy Department, officers are usually
assigned alternately to sea and shore duty for periods of about
three years each. For two and a half years prior to December 31, 1890, the claimant had been attached to the United
States steamship Galena, on a cruise, performing sea duty and
receiving sea pay
The claimant had been in the Navy since 1872, and during
his service on the St. M1ary's was entitled to $2600 a year
while on sea duty, and $22(10 while on shore duty
The
accounting officers of the United States allowed him- sea
pay while the St. Mlary's was on a cruise, but only shore pay
while she was lying at a. wharf in the harbor of New York.
The Court of Claims held that he was entitled to sea pay
during the whole time of his service on the St. Mary's, and
gave judgment accordingly in his favor for $780.25. 30 C. 01.
197. The United States appealed to this court.
VOL. cLxv-2

OCTOBER TERN'I, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr Assistant Attorney General Dodge and XAr A~szstant
Attorney Gorman for appellants.
-Hr John S. Blar and Nr Charles Abert for appellee.

AR. Jusvxcn

GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
By the statute of the United States, the officers of the Navy
receive higher pay "when at sea," than when "on shore duty,"
or "on leave, or waiting orders", and the pay of the claimant,
being in the second five years of his service as lieutenant, was
"when at sea, $2600, on shore duty, $2200, on leave, or waiting orders, $1800." Rev. Stat. ยง 1556. And by ยง 1571, "no
service shall be regarded as sea service, except such as shall
be performed at sea, under the orders of a Department, and
in vessels employed by authority of law"
To constitute sea service, then, three things, and three only,
The service must be performed "at sea",
are necessary
"under the orders of a Department", and "1in vessels employed by authority of law"
In ordler to come within the phrase "at sea," as used in this
statute, it is not necessary that the vessel upon which the service is performed should' be upon the high seas. It is enough
that she is waterborne, even if at anchor in a bay, or port or
harbor, and not in condition pFesently to go to sea. It has
accordingly been adjihdgedf-by this court that a vessel is "at
sea,"within the meaning of the statute, although she is used
as a training ship, anchored in a bay, and not in a condition
to be taken out to sea, beyond the main land, or is used as a
receiviiig ship, at anchor in port at a navy yard,. communicating with the shore by a rope, and having a roof built over her
deck, and not tpchnically in commission for sea service.
United States v. Symonds, 120 U. S. 46, United States v.
B ihop; 120 U S. 51, United States v Strong, 125 U. S. 656.
The claimant, whilq_ the St. Mary's was not on a cruise, but
anchored- at and tied to a wharf in the harbor of Neew York,
lived on board of her, wore his uniform, and was subject to

UNITED STATES v. BARNETTE.
Opinion of the Court.

the same regulations, as while she was upon the high seas,
and was therefore "at sea," so far as affected his rate of pay,
during the whole period of his service as her executive officer.
The fact that this service was called, in the order of the Secretary of the Navy assigning him to duty upon this vessel,
"employment on shore duty," is immaterial. The material
question is whether the service was, in fact, performed at sea,
and not on shore, and not upon the name by which the Secretary of the Navy was pleased to designate it. As was said
by this court in United States v Synion ds, above cited, "Congress certainly did not intend to confer authority upon the
Secretary of the Navy to diminish an officer's compensation,
as established by law, by declaring that to be shore service
which was in fact sea service, or to increase his compensation
by declaring that to be sea service which was in fact shore
service." 120 U. S. 49.
The service of the claimant was clearly performed "under
the orders of a Department." It was in obedience to an order
of the Department of the Navy, that he reported to the commander of the St. Mary's, and served as her executive officer;
and, throughout his service upon her, he received no orders,
except from her commander, himself an officer in the Navy
As was well said by Judge Nott, now Chief Justice of the
Court of Claims, in delivering the opinion of that court in the
case at bar, "The order which placed the St. Mary's on duty
as a school ship, and, to a certain extent, at the disposal of the
board of education, did not transfer the vessel to any other
authority than that of the United States. Possession, control,
discipline and authority were all retained by the Government;
The officers doubtless carried out the directions of the board
of education, but they did not do so because they were the
orders of the board of education, but because they were sent
by the Secretary of the Navy to New York to do so." 30

C. Cl. 207.
It is no less clear that the St. Mfary's was one of the "vessels
employed by authority of law" by the United States. The
Court of Claims has distinctly found, as a fact, that she was
"a sailing vessel owned and employed by the United States."

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Both the furnishing of the St. Mary's by the Secretary of the
Navy to the-State of New York for a ship to maintain a nautical school upon, and the detail of the claimant as executive
officer of the vessel while she was used for that purpose, were
pursuant to the powers expressly conferred upon the President
of the United States and the Secretary of the Navy by the
act of Congress, entitled "An act to encourage the establishment of public marine schools." Act of June 20, 18,74, c. 339,
18 Stat. 121.
The duties of executive officer of the St. Mary's having been
perfoymed by the claimant as a lieutenant in the Navy of the
United States, at sea, under the orders of the Department of
the Navy, and in a vessel employed by the United States by
authority of law, he was entitled, during the whole period of
his service, whether the vessel was attached to a wharf, or was
sailing on a cruise, to the rate of pay which the statute allowed
to him "when at sea," notvithstanding that during the same
period he also received pay from the State of New York for
the performance of the distinct, but quite consistent, duties of
instructor in its nautical school upon this vessel, the performance of which, indeed, by naval officers, was manifestly contemplated and intended by the act of Congress, and by the
orders of the Secretary of the Navy
Judgment affirmed.

M . JUSTICE FIELD and Mr. JUSTICE BnEWER took no part
in the consideration and decision of this case.

JONES v. BRIM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 621.

Submitted January 11, 1897. -Decided

February 1, ISM9.

Section 2087 of the Compiled Laws of Utah, which provides that "Any
person who drives a herd of horses, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, goats
or swine over a public highway, where such highway is constructed on a
hillside, shall be liable for all damage done by such animals in destroying
the banks or rolling rocks into or upon such highway," Is not in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States.

