OCTOBER TERMA,

1896.

Syllabus.

ritre MCCA U LLY, Petitioner, 8 original. I re LusBY, Petitioner,
10 original. Argued January 25, 1897 Decided Mlarch 1,1897
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: These are petitions for habeas corpus to
discharge petitioners from confinement on convictions under the
oleomargarine law on the ground of .the unconstitutionality of that
enactment. SO far as that question is concerned, it is conceded
that the records are substantially the same as the record in Kollock's case just decided, and the applications must be disposed of
in the same way
Writs denied.
31r Jeremiah if.

Vilson and Mr Henry E."Davis for petitioners.

MLr ,.Solicitor Gen er(d oposing.

McCORMICK )' MARKET BANK.
ERROR

'TO "ViIE
No..54.

SUPREME COURT OF TiE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Nbmiitted December 7, 1S98.-

Decided March 1, 1897.

In an action against a national bank upon a contract, each party relied on
section 5136 of the Revised Statutes, by which a national bank, upon flling its articles of association and organization certificate with the Comptroller of the Currency, becomes a corporation, with power "to make
contracts" and other corporate powers, but is prohibited to "transact
any business, except such as is incidental and necessarily preliminary to
its organization, until it has been authorized by the Comptroller of the
Currency to commence the business of banking." The defendant relied
on the prohibition. The plaintiff relied on the exception to the prohibition, and also contended that, under the general power to make contracts,
the contract sued on was valid as between the parties, even if contrary
to the prohibition. Meld, that a 3udgment for the defendant in the highest court of the State might be reviewed by this court on writ of error.
By section 5136 of the Revised Statutes, a contract of lease, at a large rent.
of an office to be occupied "as a banking office, and for no other purpose," for the term of five years, determinable at the end of any year by
either party, executed by a iational bank as lessee, after having duly filed
its articles of associatio and orgaization certificate with the Comptroller of the Currency, but not having been authorized by mn to corn-

McCORMICK v. MARKET -BANK.
Statement of the Case.
mence the business of banking, is void, cannot be made good by estoppel,
and will not support an action against the bank to recover anything beyond the value of what It has actually received and enjoyed.

Tnis was an action brought July 17, 1895, by McCormick
against the Market National Bank of Chicago, Illinois, in the
superior court of Cook county in the State of Illinois, and was
submitted by the parties, waiving a trial by jury, to that court,
upon an agreed statement of facts, in substance as follows
On January 31, 1893, articles of associatipn were signed,
and an organization certificate was signed and acknowledged,
by nine citizens of Illinois, before a notary public, and both
were transmitted 'to the Comptroller of the Currency, as required by Title 62 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States (the material parts of which are copied in the
margin i), for the purpose of making them a national banking
association at Chicago by the aforesaid name, and were on
I SEC. 5133. Associations for carrying on the business of banking under
this Title may be formed by any number of natural persons, not less in any
case than five. They shall enter into articles of association, which shall
specify in general terms the object for which the association is formed.
These articles shall be signed by the persons uniting to form the association, and a copy of them shall be forwarded to the Comptroller of the
Currency, to be filed and preserved in his office.
Sc. 5134. The persons uniting to form such an-association shall, under
their hands, make an organization certificate, wich shall specifically state.
First. The name assumed by such association.
Second. The place where its operations of discount and deposit are to
be carried on.
Third. The amount of capital stock and the number of shares into which
the same is to be divided.
Fourth. The names and places of residence of the shareholders, and the
number of shares held by each of them.
Fifth. The fact that the certificate is made to enable such persons to
avail themselves of the advantages of this Title.
SEc. 5135. The organization certificate shall be acknowledged before a
judge of some court of record, or notary public, and shall be, together with
the acknowledgment thereof, authenticated by the seal of such court or
notary, transmitted to the Comptroller of the Currency who shall record
and carefully preserve the same in his office.
Szc. 5136. Upon duly making and filing articles of association and an
organization certificate, the association shall become, as from the date of
the execution of its organization certificate, a body corporate, and as such,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

February 3, 1893, recorded, and afterwards carefully preserved,
in the Comptroller's office.
On January 31, 1893, at a meeting of the directors of the
bank, chosen by the stockholdersi and named in the articles
of association, a president and a cashier were duly elected,
and the directors caused a seal to be made for the bank. On
February 9, 1893, the president, pursuant to a resolution of the
directors, signed and sealed with the corporate seal a lease in
writing from the plaintiff to the bank of certain offices in Chicago, "to be used and occupied by said Market National Bank
as a banking office, and for no other purpose," for the term of
five years from May 1, 1893, at a yearly rent of $13,000, payable in equal monthly instalments. By an agreement made
part of the lease, the plaintiff was to make certain alterations
and in the name designated in the organization certificate, it shall have
power.
First. To adopt and-use a corporate seal.
Second. To have succession for the period of twenty years from its
organization, unless sooner dissolved or its franchise becomes forfeited.
Third. To make contracts.
Fourth. To sue and be sued, complain and defend, in any court of law
and equity, as fully as natural persons.
Fifth. To elect or appoint directors, and by its board of directors to
kppoint a president, vice-president, cashier and other officers, define their
duties, require bonds of them and fix the penalty thereof, dismiss such
officers or any of them at pleasure, and appoint others to fill their places.
Sixth. To prescribe, by its board of directors, by-laws not inconsistent
with law.
Seventh. To exercise, by its board of directors or duly authorized offlcers or agents, subject to law all such incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on their business of banking,'by discounting and negotiating
promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange and other evidences of debts;
by receiving deposits, by buying and selling exchange, coin and bullion;
by loaning money on personal security; and by obtaining, issuing and
circulating .notes, according to the provisions of this Title.
But no such association shall transact any business, except such as Is
incidental and necessarily preliminary to its organization, until it has been
authorized by the Comptroller of the -Currency to commence the business
of banking.
SEc. 5168. Whenever a certificate is transmitted'to the Comptroller of
the Currency as provided in this Title, and the association transmitting the
same notifies the Comptroller that at least fifty per centum of its capital
stock has been duly paid in, and that such association has complied with

MdCORMICK v. MARKET BANK.
Statement of the Case.

and repairs at his own expense, either party might cancel the
lease on May 1 of any year by giving ninety days' notice in
writing, and no rent was to be charged until the bank took
possession. On April 12, 1893, the parties made a supplemental agreement, by which the plaintiff was to make further
alterations, the bank paying half the cost thereof. All the
alterations and repairs were made by the planitiff as agreed,
the cost, paid by hn, of the alterations made under the
agreement of April 12, 1893, being $24:75.
Upon the completion of the alterations, on June 22, 1S93, the
president and cashier, in the name of the bank, took possession
of the demised premises, and put in the fixtures and furniture,
blank books and stationery, necessary to carry on a banking
business, and they were not removed until April 30, 1895.
all the provisions of this Title required to be complied with before an
association shall be authorized to commence the business of banking, the
Compiroller shall examine into the condition of such association, ascertain
especlilly the amount of money paid in on account of its capital, the name
and place of residence of each of its directors, and the amount of capital
stock of which each is the owner in good faith, and generally whether
such association has complied with all the provisions of this title required
to entitle it to engage in the business of banking; and shall cause to be
made and attested by the oaths of a majority of the directors, and by the
president or cashier of the. association, a statement of all the facts necessary to enable the Comptroller to determine whether the association is lawfully entitled to commence the business of banking.
SEc. 5169. If, upon a careful examination of the facts so reported, and
of any other facts which may come to the knowledge of the Comptroller,
whether by means of a special commission appointed by him for the purpose of Inquiring Into the condition of such association, or otherwise, it
appears that such association is lawfully entitled to commence the business
of banking, the Comptroller shall give to such association a certificate,
under his hand and official seal, that such association has complied with all
the provisions required to be complied with before commencing the business of banking, and that such association is authorized to commence such
business.
SEC. 5170. The association shall cause the certificate issued under the
preceding section to be published, in some newspaper printed in the city or
county where the association Is located, for at least sixty days next after
the issuing thereof.
Sc. 5190. The usual business of each national banking association
shall be transacted at an office or banking house located in the place specified in its organization certificate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

Of the whole capital stock of $1,0ou,000, provided for in
the articles of association, no more than the sum of $331,594
was ever paid in. And the bank was never authorized by
the Comptroller of the Currency to commence, and never did
commence, tho business of banking.
The officers of the bank, from time to time, corresponded
with the plaintiff, using letter heads with the name, location
and place of business of the bank and the names of its officers
printed thereon, and signing in their official capacity
The plaintiff, at the times of the negotiations for the lease,
and of its execution, and of the taking possession of the demised premises by the officers of the bank, understood and
believed that it was legally organized as a national bank, and
as such was ready to do baiking business, and had the power
to enter into the lease and agreements aforesaid, and had no
knowledge or information to the contrary until August 15,
1893, when the officers of the bank informed him that the
bank had never been authorized by the Comptroller of the
Currency to commence the business of banking, and had no
power to enter into the lease, and had abandoned all'further
,proceedings for carrying on the banking business, and offered
to surrender the lease, but he refused to accept the surrender.
On September 20, 1893, the president of the bank caused the
key of the office to be left on the desk of the plaintiff's agent,
he refusing to accept it.
On July 15, 1893, the nine persons, who had signed the
aforesaid articles of association and organization certificate,
signed and transmitted to the Comptroller of the Currency
a certificate revoking them, and he placed it on file in his
office. On the same day, five of those persons and seven
others signed and acknowledged, and forwarded to the Comptrq_1or, other articles of association and organization certificate, for the purpose of making them a national bank by
the same name, with a capital of $500,000, and they were
forthwith recorded in the Comptroller's office. On July 25,
1893, the persons signing the latter articles of association
and organization certificate abandoned all further proceedings with regard to the organization of the bank as therein

McCORMICK v. MARKET BANK.
Statemefit of the Case.

provided, and with regard to its commencing the business of
banking.
On October 4, 1893, the parties agreed in writing that,
without prejudice to the rights of either, the plaintiff should
take possession of the premises, and endeavor to lease them and
to collect the rent thereof. The plaintiff made every effort to
obtain a tenant accordingly, but was unable to do so.
On January 3, 1895, the plaintiff gave written notice to the
president of the bank of his intention to terminate the lease
on May .1, 1895, in accordance with its terms.
The cashier paid the rent, according to the-lease, until July
22, 1893. But the bank refused to pay any rent subsequently
accruing; and 'never .paid its half of the cost of the alterations made under the agreement of April 12, 1893.
If, upon the facts stated, without regard to the form of the
pleadings, the court should be of opinion that the plaintiff was
entitled to recover, judgment was to be rendered for him for
such sum as he was entitled to, with costs, otherwise, judgment for the defendant, with costs.
The plaintiff asked the court to find, as matter of law, the
following propositions
"1st. That the execution of the lease in question by the
defendant was incidental and necessarily preliminary to its
organization, and to its entering upon a banking business..
"2d. That the execution of the lease in question was a
proper exercise of the powers possessed by such defendant to
make contracts under paragraph 3 of section 5136 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States.
"3d. That the limitation or last dlause of paragraph 7 of
said section does not apply to the powers conferred by paragraphs 1 to 6 in said section, that the Market National Bank
of Chicago had the power to enter into said lease, and to
legally bind itself thereby
"4th. That there was no want of power on the part of said
defendant to execute said lease, but merely a defective organization, and said bank cannot plead such defective organization
to defeat a recovery
"5th. That said contract of lease has been fully executed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Parties.

"6th. That the said plaintiff was not bound to ascertain
whether or not the said defendant was properly and legally organized, and that, if the plaintiff relied upon the representations and statements of the proper officers of said defendant
that the bank was properly and legally organized and empowered to make and enter into said lease, he is entitled to recover
the stipulated rental named therein, and the defendant is
estopped to deny its liability
"7th. That the said defendant, by its acts, conduct and
declarations, as shown by the agreed statement of facts in this
case, is estopped from alleging that it was not fully organized
as a banking corporation under the laws of the United States,
and from alleging that it did not have the power to execute
the lease in question.
"8th. That the plaintiff, under the facts of this case as
agreed upon, is entitled to recover judgment, at the rate
agreed upon in said lease, from July 22, 1893, up to May 1,
1895, and also to recover one half of the expenses of repairing
and changing the said premises, according to the stipulation,
with interest upon each instalment as it. became due, at the
rate of five per cent per annum.."
The court refused to find the foregoing propositions of law,
or any of them, and the.plaintiff duly excepted to the refusal.
The court found for the plaintiff, and gave judgment in his
favor for the rent from July 22 to August 15, 1893, and for
half the cost of the alterations made by the plaintiff under
the agreement of April 12, 1893, with interest, amounting in
all to the sum of $2548.85.
The judgment was affirmed, on successive appeals of the
plaintiff, by the Appellate Court and by the Supreme Court
of Illinois. 61 Illiilois App. 33, 162 Illinois, 100. The plaintiff thereupon sued out this writ of error. The assignments
of error upon each appeal, as well as upon the writ of error,
were based upon the propositions of law above stated.
Hr A. -M.Pence for plaintiff in error.
Hr, Iiram T Gilbert for defendant in error.

McCORMICK v. MARKET BANI
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTIoE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
By the National Bank Act, a national banking association,
"upon duly making and filing articles of association, and an
organization certificate," with the Comptroller of the Currency, "shall become, as from the date of the execution of its
organization certificate, a body corporate, and as such, and in
the name designated in the organization certificate, shall have
power," "to adopt and use a corporate seal," "to have succession for the period of twenty years from its organization,"
"to make contracts," "to sue and be sued, as fully as natural
persons," to elect and dismiss officers, to make by laws, and to
exercise "all such incidental powers as shall be necessary to
carry on the business of banking." "But no such association
shall transact any business, except such as is incid~ntal and
necessarily preliminary to its organization, until it has been
authorized by the Comptroller of the Currency to commence
the business of banking."1Rev. Stat. § 5136.
The question upon which this case turned was whether a
national banking association which, after having duly made
and filed its articles of association and organization certificate
with the Comptroller of the Currency, but not having received
from him a certificate authorizing it to do banking business,
enters with the owner of real estate into a contract of lease,
for a term of five years, determinable at the end of any year
by either party, of 'anoffice to be occupied by the association
as a banking office, is bound by the lease, according to its
provisions.
This action was brought by the lessor in such a lease
against the defendant as lessee. The first question that presents itself upon the record is whether this court has jurisdiction of this writ of error.
The defendant contended, and the highest court of the
State of Illinois adjudged, that the contract of lease sued on
was not incidental and necessarily preliminary to the organization of the corporation, and therefore, by virtue of the last
clause of section 5136 of the National Bank Act, above cited,
VOL CLXV-35

OCTOBER TERiM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

having been executed by the defendant befori being author
ized by the Comptroller of the Currency to commence the
business of banking, did not bind the defendant.
If the decision had been the other way, it would, as
admitted at the bar, have been a decision against an immunity set up and claimed by the defendant under a statute
of the United States, and therefore reviewable by this court
on writ of error. Swope v Lefjingwell, 105 U. S. 3, Logan
County Bank v Townseild, 139 U. S. 67, MAetropolitan Bank
v. Claggett, 141 U. S. 520, Chemwal Bank v. HartfordDepo8it
Co., 161-U. S. 1.
It does not, however, follow that the plaintiff is not entitled
to a review by this court of the judgment, so far as it was
against him.
The plaintiff, in the courts of the State, and by his assign.
ment of errors filed with the writ of error sued oilt from this
court, specially set up and claimed a right to recover, so far
as concerned the construction of that section of the statute,
upon. two grounds.
His first ground was that the execution of the lease by the
defendant was "incidental' and necessarily preliminary to its
organization," and therefore within the exception of the last
clause of the section in question. As to that ground, the case
stands thus The defendant relied on the prohibition to tfansact any business until it had been authorized by the Comptroller of the Currency to commence the business of banking.
The plaintiff relied on the exception out of that prohibition.
The decision against the plaintiff, therefore, was a deciqion
against a right claimed by him under a statute of the United
States.
The case, in this particular, as .nalogous to those arising
under the provision of* the Bankrupt Act, that a bankrupt
who had in all things conformed to his duty under the act
should receive a discharge from all his debts, with certain
exceptions, among which were debts created by his fraud or
embezzlement, or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while
adting in a fiduciary character. IRev Stat. §§ 5114, 5117. In
Strader v. Baldwm, 9 How 261, indeed, under the like pro-

McCORMICK v. MARKET BANK.
Opinion of the Court,

vision of a former bankrupt act, where a bankrupt, being sued
upon a debt, pleaded his discharge, and the plaintiff replied
that the debt was contracted while acting in a fiduciary capacity, and the decision of the state court was in favor of the
defendant, this court held that it had no jurisdiction, because
the decision -below wan in favor of the right set up by the
defendant. But the court there failed to notice that the
decision, while in favor of the right or immunity, set up by
the defendant, of a discharge under the Bankrupt Act, was
also against the right or immunity, set up by the plaintiff,
under the clause excepting fiduciary debts from the effect of
that discharge. And the case has accordingly been overruled
in similar cases arising under the recent bankrupt act, in which
this court has taken jurisdiction, not only when the writ of
error was sued out by the"defendant, Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S.
704, but also when it was sued out by the plaintiff, because,
as was said by Chief Justice Waite in delivering judgment in
the latest case upon*this point, the plaintiff "specially set -up
and claimed an immunity, under § 5117 of the Revised Statutes, from the operation of the discharge in bankruptcy,
because of the fraudulent and fiduciary character of his debt,
and the decision was against him." Hennequzn v. Clews, 111
U. S. 676, Palmerv. flumaey, 119 U. S.96, 98.
The plaintiff's second ground likewise affords ampld support for the appellate jurisdiction of this court. It was
specially set up and claimed by the plaintiff, that, taking the
whole section together, the defendant, from the date of filing
with the Comptroller of the Currency its articles of association and its organization certificate, became a corporation
empowered to make contracts appropriate to the business of
banking, and that any such contracts were valid as between
the parties to 'them, even if they violated the restriction in the
last clause of the section, and therefore might afford a reason
for which the United States could enforce a forfeiture of the
charter. This position of the plaintiff was, in effect, that, so
far as he was concerned, the bank had power under the statute
,of the United States to make the contract sued on, and the
•decisin of the highest court of the State, that the statute,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

rightly construed, did not give such power to the bank, was
a decision against the right so specially set up and claimed
by the plaintiff under a statute of the United States, and is
therefore reviewable by this court. Rev Stat. § 709.
But we are of opinion that there was no error in that
decision.
While by the earlier provisions of section 5136 of the
Revised Statutes, the association, upon filing its articles of
association and its organization certificate with the Comptroller of the Ourrency, becomes "as from the date of the
execution of the organization certificate," and "for the period
of twenty years from its organization," a body corporate, with
the usual powers of a banking corporation, ye% by the last
clause of-.that section, Congress has enacted that "no such
association shall transact any business, except such as is incidental and necessarily preliminary to its organization, until it
has beea authorized by the Comptroller of the Currency to
commence the business of banking."
By subsequent sections of the National Bank Act, the Comptroller is required to make a careful examination into the condition of the association, and, taking into consideration a full
statement upon the, oaths of the president and cashier, and
of a majority of the directors, and any other facts which may
come to his knowledge, by means of a special commission of
inquiry, or otherwise, to ascertain and determine that at least
fifty per cent of the capital stock has been duly paid in, and
that the association has in all other respects complied with
the provisions.of the National Bank Act, required to be complied with before commencing the business of banking, and
thereupon, and not before, to make and to give to the association a certificate, under his hand and official seal, that the assoclation has complied with all those provisions, and is authorized
to commence the business of banking. Rev. Stat. § 5168,
5169. The Comptroller, as this court has said, is "clothed with
jurisdiction to decide as to the completeness of the organization." Casey v Galli, 94 U. S. 673, 679, Bu8itnell v. .Kneeland, 16-1 U, S. 684.
Until the association has been authorized by the Comptroller

McCORMICK v. MARKET BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

to commence the business of banking, section 5136 peremptorily forbids the corporation to "transact any business" whatever, whether appertaining or not to the business of banking,
"except such as is incidental and necessarily preliminary to
its org,'ization." The only business which it is permitted to
transact is "such as is incidental and necessarily preliminary," not to carrying on, or even to commencing, the business of banking, but "to its organization," that is to say,
such as is requisite to complete its organization as a corporation, which might doubtless include electing directors and
officers, receiving subscriptions and payments for shares, procuring a corporate seal, and a book for recording its proceedings, temporarily hiring, a room, and contracting any small
debts incidental to the completion of its organization.
To take a lease is certainly to "transact business," within
the meaning of the statute, and a lease for a term-of years,
at a large rent, of offices to be occupied by the bank "as a
banking office, and for no other purpose," however necessary
it might be for the transacting, or even for the commencing,
of banking business by a corporation whose organization had
been completed, and which had been lawfully authorized to
commence the business of banking, is in no sense incidental or
necessarily preliminary to the organization of the corporation.
The provision of section 5190, that "the usual business of
each national banking association shall be transacted at an
office or banking house located in the place specified in its
organization certificate," refers to its "usual business," after
obtaining the certificate from the Comptroller; and to "the
place," that is, the city -or town, in which, after it has
been authorized by the Comptroller's certificate to commence
its business of banking, its "office or banking house" is
located.
The lease sued on, therefore, was clearly prohibited by the
very terms of the statute from which the association assumed
to derive its power to execute the lease.
The doctrine of udtra vzres, by which a contract made by a
corporation beyond the scope of its corporate powers, is unlaw'ful and void, and will not support an action, rests, as this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

has often recognized and affirmed, upon three distinct grounds
the obligation of any one contracting with a corporation, to
take notice of the legal limits of its powers, the interest of
the stockholders, not to be subject to risks which they have
never undertaken, and, above all, the interest of the public,
that the corporation shall not transcend the.powers conferred
upon it by law Pearce v. -Madison& ]hdianapoli Railroad,
21 How 44,1, Pittsburgh&c. Railway v. ieokuk & Hamilton.
Brzdge Co., 131 U. S. 371, 384:, Central TransportationCo. v.
Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 48.
When the corporation is created by a charter graptedt by
the legislature, any person dealing with it is bound to take
notice of the terms of the charter, and of the general lals
restricting or defining the powers of the corporation. Pearce
v lfadison & IndianaplolisRailroad,above cited, Zabrzskse v
Oleveland,&c. Rairoad,23 How 381, 398, Thomas v. -Railroad 'Co., 101 U. S. 71, Pennsylvanza Railroad v. St. Youz&
&c. Railroad,118 U. S.-290, 630. In like manner, when theu
corpgration is formed under general laws, by the recording or
filing in a public office of the required articles of association
and certificate, any person dealing with the association is
bound to take notice of the documents recorded or filed, upon
which, as authorized and controlled by the general laws, depend the existence of the corporation, the extent of its corporate powers, and its capacity to act as a corporation. Oregon
Railway v Oregonsan Railway, 130 U. S. 1, 25, Central
TransportattonCo. v Pullman's Car Co., above cited,
It is settled by a long series of decisions of this court, that
a lease of a railroad by one railroad corporation to another,
which is beyond the corporate powers of either, is unlawful
and void, and cannot be made good by ratification or estoppel,
so as to sustain an action upon the lease, that this is so, not
only when the -lease is ultra vres of the lessor corporation,
and therefore open to the objection of disabling it from performing those duties to the public, its performance of which
-wasthe consideration upon which it received its charter from
the State, but even if the lease is ultra vres of the lessee
corporation ,only and Therefore not open to that particular

McCORMICK v. 'MARKET BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

objection. Thoras v Railroad Co., Pennsylvansa Railroad
v. St. Lozuis &c. Railroad, Oregon Railway v. Oregonzan
Railway, and Central Transportatton Co. v. Pullman's Car
Co., above cited, St. Louts &c. Railroad v. Terre aute &C
IndianapolisRailroad,145 U. S. 393, 404.
The case at bar is no less clear than those just referred to.
Congress, indeed, in establishing the system of national banks,
instead of undertaking to grant special charters of incorporation upon its own judgment of the expediency of doing so in
each case, has allowed corporations to be organized by voluntary acts of the associates, under the general conditions
defined in the statute. But the capacity of these voluntary
associations to make contracts and to transact business has
not been left to depend upon their own will, however formally
expressed, without any public authoriky having ever passed
upon their responsibility and fitness. On the contrary, Congress has entrusted to the Comptroller of the Currency the
power and the duty of making a careful examination into the
condition of the association, including the amount of its capital stock actually paid in, and its compliance with the requirements of the statute in other respects and, if the result of his
examination is satisfactory, of granting to the association an
official certificate that it is authorized to commence the business of banking, and has forbidden the corporation to transact any business whatever, except so far as required to perfect
its organization, until it has received the certificate of the
Comptroller.
The result of the Comptroller's examination, and his certificate of that result, and of the authority thereupon granted the
corporation to commence the business of banking, of course
appear on the records of his office, as do the articles of association and the organization certificate previously transmitted
to him. Every one dealing with the corporation is bound to
take notice of the facts thus appearing on a public record,
upon which, by the very terms of the National Bank Act,
depend the right of the association to exist as a corporation,
and its capacity to transact business.
The Comptroller's examination and certificate are required,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

not only for the security of those dealing with the bank, but
also for the protection of the stockholders, for, without them,
stockholders who had paid in the amount of their subscriptions might find themselves held liable for debts contracted
by the corporation, without its having obtained the payments
due from other stockholders, and otherwise complied with the
requirements of the act.
One important object of Congress, in-,requiring the fitness
of each corporation for carrying on business, with safety to
its stockholders and to all persons dealing with it, to be ascertained and certified by a public officer before the corporation
should have power to transact any business whatever, except
to complete its organization as a corporation, doubtless was to
create and maintain public confidence in the new system of
national banks established by Congress to take the place of the
local banks to which the people had been accustomed.
The cases on which the plaintiff principally relied are distinguishable in essential elements from the case at bar. Whitney v. Wyman, 101 U. S. 392, Hlarrod v. Hamer, 32 Wisconsin, 162, and Hammond v. Straus, 53 Maryland, 1, depended
on provisions of local statutes, differing from those of the National Bank Act, and in WhAiney v. Wyman, the corporation,
after being authorized to commence business, had ratified the
previous contract. Chubb v Upton, 95 U. S. 665, was to the
familiar point that one who has contracted with a de facto
corporation cannot set up irregularity in its organization in
defence of a suit upon the contract. Smith v. Sheeley, 12 Wall.
358, merely held that when land had been conveyed for full
value to "adefacto corporation, the grantor .and those claimmg under him could not afterwards deny its capacity to take
the title. fational Bank v. Matt ews, 98 U. S. 621, and
Nfational Bank v Whitney, 103 U. S. 99, depended upon seetioii 5137 of the Revised Statutes, specifying the purposes for
which a national bank might purchase, hold and convey real
estate, which, as construed by the court, did not make void
mortgages taken for other purposes by a banking association
authorized to transact business. See also Fritts v. Palmer,
132 U. S. 282, 293, and cases cited, Thompson v. St. Nicholas
Bank, 146 U. S. 240, 251.

SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

The present case is not one of irregularity of organization,
or of abuse of a legal power, but of an attempt to exercise
a power expressly prohibited by statute.
The lease sued on having been executed by the defendant,
contrary to the express prohibition of the statute, which peremptorily forbade the corporation to transact any business,
unless to perfect its organization, and thus denied it the
capacity of entering into any contract whatever, except in
perfecting its organization, the lease is void, cannot be made
good by estoppel, and will not support an action to recover
anything beyond -the value of what the defendant has actually received and enjoyed. Central Transportation Co. v
Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 247, 54-61, Logan County Bank
v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67.
The plaintiff, who by the judgment below has recovered
rent at the rate stipulated in the lease for all the time of the
defendant's occupation, as well as all that the defendant had
agreed to pay towards the repairs, has certainly no ground
of complaint, and the defendant, not having sued out a writ
of error, is in no position to object to the amount recovered.
Judgment affirmed.

SWAIM v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAIMS.
No. 03. Argued January 7, 1897. - Decided March 1, 189.

It is within the power of the President, as commander-rn-chief, to convene
a general court-martial, even when the commander of the accused officer
to be tried is not the accuser.
A charge was made by letter against an officer in the army; the letter was
referred to a court of inquiry to investigate; on the receipt of its report
charges and suqeciflcations against him were prepared by order of the
Secretary of War; and the President thereupon appointed a court-martial
to pass upon the charges. Held, that such routine orders did not make
the President his accuser or prosecutor.
In detailing officers to compose a court-martial the presumption is that the
President acts in pursuance of law, and its sentence cannot be collater-

