OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

For the same reasons as given in the foregoing cases, this
judgment of the Court of Claims must also be
1Reversed, and the cause remanded wit, the same directions
as sn the other cases.

HOPKINS -v. GRIMSHAW
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 18. Argued December 16, 17, 1895.-Decided February 15, 189T.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the acts of July 2, 1864, cc. 210, 222
(rednacted in Rev. Stat. § 858, and Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 876877), a widow
is incompetent to testify, in a suit which she is neither a party to, nor
interested in, to a private conversation between her husbfild and herself
in his lifetime; and a conversation between them in their own home, in
the presence of no one but a young daughter, who does not appear to
have taken any part in it, is a private conversation, within the rule.
The rule against perpetuities is inapplicable to a trust resulting to the heirs
of a grantor upon the failure of.an express trust declared in his deed.
By a deed of land from a private person to three others as trustees for a
particular society, not incorporated, but formed for the mutual aid of its
members when sick and for their burial when dead, to have and to hold
to the trustees, "and their successors in office forever, for the sole use
and benefit of the society aforesaid, for a burial ground, and for no other
purpose whatever," the trustees take the legal estate in fee; and, when
the land has ceased to be used for a burial ground, and all the bodies
there interred have been removed to other cemeteries, by order of the
municipal authorities, and the society has been dissolved and become extinct, the grantor's heirs are entitled to the land by way of resulting
trust; and, after one of those heirs and the heirs of the trustees have
conveyed their interests in the land to another person, the other hirs of
tfe grantor may maintaifi a bill in equity against him to enforce the resulting trust, and for partition of the land, and for complete relief between the parties.

THIS was a bill in. equity, filed May 24, 1889, against
William H. Grimshaw, and ag&ainst Mary J Brooks, an heir
ot Stup1ney Forrest, by the 6ther heirs of Forrest, and by

- Horace S. Cummings, trustee," to enforce a resultig trust
in, aad to obtain pzrtotion of, land in the citv of Washin-ton,
oonveyed
Foi.je t to David Redden an'i others. trustees

HOPKINS v. GRIMSHAW
Statement of the Case.

for the Union Beneficial Society of the City of Washington,
for a burial ground. The case was heard upon pleadings and
proofs, and was in substance as follows
By deed dated August 9, 1845, and recorded October 21,
1845, William Nolan, Commissioner of Public Buildings, in
consideration of the sum of $129.93, recited to be paid by the
grantee, conveyed to "Stephney Forrest, his heirs and assigns
forever," ten lots comprising the north half of square 1089
in the city of Washington.
By deed not dated, but acknowledged September 25, 1845,
and recorded October 21, 1845, Stephney Forrest, for a like
consideration, conveyed the same land to "David Redden,
Daniel Simms and William Barton, trustees for the Unign
Beneficial Society of Washington City," to have and to hold
to said Redden, Simms and Barton "and their successors
in office forever, for the sole use and benefit of the Union
Beneficial Society of the City of Washington as aforesaid, for
a burial ground, and for no other purpose whatever."
Stephney Forrest died in 1855, having been twice married,
and leaving six children by his first wife, and one daughter
(since Mary J. Brooks) by his second wife, Rachel Forrest,
who also survived him. He was a member of the society,
and the answer alleged that he purchased the land in behalf
of the society and with its money
The only evidence offered in support of this allegation consisted of depositions of Rachel Forrest, his widow, and of
Mary J Brooks, their daughter, taken in November, 1889, the
material parts of which ivere as follows Mrs. Forrest testified
that she was now eighty-five years old, that she knew her
husband bought this land for the society, because, before he left
home on the morniuu of the day of his purchase, he told her
that he was going to buy the land for the society, and to get
the money from the society to buy it, and came back and
showed hera bundle which he said contained the money, and
,ater in the day told nev that lie had- bought the land for the
v';,,&/, and tlit she never talked with her daughter about
., meutioned it tv, a-y one until the day she testified
cc.Miedthat, when she wa~s usair~

OCTOBER TERI,

1896

Statement of the Case.

teen or fourteen years old, she heard her father, as he left
'home one morning, say that be was going to the secretary
,of the society to get the money to buy the land for the
society The plaintiffs' counsel, .at the hearing, objected to
this testimony of Forrest's widow and daughter as insufficient
to establish a trust, and -to the widow's testimony as incompetent to prove statements made by her husband to her.
The Union Beneficial Society of the City of Washington
was an unincorporated association of colored persons, formed
by articles of association in writing in 1841, by which provisions were made for visiting sick and infirm members,
and for applying to their relief money appropriated for that
purpose, and for paying, upon the death of any member,
certain sums out of the funds of the society "towards defraying the funeral expenses," and "to the widow, orphan children
or legal representatives, of such deceased member ", the funds
of the society were to be derived from entrance fees, monthly
dues and other pecuniary contributions of the members, and
fines imposed upon them for violations of the' articles, and
"whilst six members of this institution unite for its continuance, it shall not be broken."
For many years after the deed of Forrest to the trustees,
the land was used by the society for the burial of its members,
and also for the burial of any other colored inhabitants of the
city upon the payment of certain fees. Since 1852, at least,
fees so obtained, instead of 'being applied to the use of the
society, were divided fiom time to time among its members.
The last admission of a new member was in 1870, and the members gradually dwindled'in number until 1882, when there were
only three members, one being Philip Wells, its president.
For the five years before 1883, there were 1589 interments,
and from January, 1883, to November 13, 1883, there were
560 bodies interred, many of them one upon another. On
November 13, 1883, further interments were prohibited by
the board of health, and none were made afterwards. It did
not appear that since 1887 the society did anything, kept any
records, or held any meetings.
All the trustees named as grantees in the deed from Steph-

HOPKINS v. GRIMSHAW
Statement of,the Case.

ney Forrest being dead, the defendant Grimshaw, who was a
son in law of Mrs. Brooks, obtained in 1887 and 1888 conveyances to himself, as follows: 1st. Deeds from Mrs. Forrest
and Mrs. Brooks of their interests m the land. 2d. 'A deed
from Philip Wells, the president of the society, purporting to
convey all its and his interests in the laud. 3d. Deeds of the
land frem the heirs of the trustees aforesaid.
In February, 1889, the board of health, upon the petition of
Grimshaw, claiming to have authority from the surviving
members of the society, ordered him to exhume all the bodies
interred in this burial ground, and to remove them to other
cemeteries, and he did so at his own expense, amounting, as
he testified, to the sum of $2000.
The bill alleged that the plaintiffs and the defendants sued
and were sued in their own Aight, except Cummings, who sued
as trustee under the trust afterwards mentioned, and that on
March 20 and 27, 1889, the land in question was conveyed to
him by the other plaintiffs, by deeds which (as put in evidence
at the hearing) purported to convey that land to Cummings
in fee, "in and upon the trusts, nevertheless, hereinafter mentioned and declared, that is to say, in trust to sell and convey
the same to such person or persons, in fee simple or otherwise,
ind upon such terms and conditions, as Franklin Hl. Mackey,
of the District of Columbia, shall in writing direct, and the
proceeds of said sale to distribute according to the terms of a
paper of even date herewith, and signed in duplicate by the
party of the first part, one copy of which is in the hands of the
said Cummings, and the other in the hands of the said Mackey,
and the purchaser or purchasers of said property shall not be
required to see to the application of the purchase money" The
paper so referred to, concerning the distribution of proceeds of
sales, was not in the record transmitted to this court.
The bill further alleged that, "by virtue of said deeds, complainant Cummings now holds the entire legal title in trust
for the other co-plaintiffs to said-property, except the interest
of the defendant William H. Grimshaw, and that a complete
and perfect title to the same will be held by the complainants
-when this court has decreed the reverter which complainants

OCTOBER TERMI,

1896.

Statement of the Case.

are entitled to have declared by reason of the terms of the
said original deed from Stephney Forrest to said trustees."
The bill prayed that the land "be decreed to have reverted
to the heirs of Stephney Forrest, by reason of the terms
and provisions and purposes of the original conveyance of said
Stephney Forrest, and the order of the municipal authorities,
and the carrying out of said order", that a comnmrssion be
appointed to make partition of the land between Grimshaw
as grantee of Mrs. Brooks, one of the heirs of Stephney Forrest, and the plaintiffs, his other heirs, that the deeds to
Grimshaw from the heirs of the trustees be declared to be a
cloud upon the plaintiffs' title, and of no effect to pass any
title in the land, and be directed to be surrendered for cancellation, and for further relief.
Grimshaw, in his answer to the bill, denied that Cummings
sued as trustee, and alleged that he sued in his own right and
for his own benefit, and at the hearing, in support of this
allegation, introduced a bill in equity, filed by Cummings
alone April 16, 1889, sinilar to the present bill, except in
alleging that by the deeds to him from F rrest's heirs the
entire and fall beneficial interest and estate vested in him.
That bill was dismissed by Mr. Mackey, as solicitor for Cummings, on the same day on which he filed the present bill as
solicitor for the plaintiffs therein.
The answer further averred that the deeds to Grimshaw
from the heirs of the original trustees were procured by him
at the instance and for the benefit of the Union Beneficial
Society, and he held the land in trust for the society, and for
no other use or purpose whatsoever, and denied that those
deeds were clouds upon the plaintiffs' title, denied the plaintiffs' title, and denied that any title vested in Stephney Forrest's heirs, by reverter or otherwise, and averred that the
deed from Forrest vested in the trustees named therein an
absolute and indefeasible estate in fee simple, and that the
society used the land solely for the purpose of a burial ground
as long as it was lawful so to use it, and only ceased such use
when compelled to do so by law To this answer the plaintiffs filed a general replication.

HOPKINS v. GRIMSHAW
Opinion of the Court.

Mrs. Brooks never filed an answer and the plaintiffs.
before the hearing, dismissed their bill as against her.
Upon the hearing, the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia dismissed the bill, "without prejudice to the rights
of the complainants to claim, in any proper suit or proceeding,
such rght, if any, as the ' ain Stepuney Forrest may have been
entitled to, in said real estate, as a member of said Union Beneficial Society" The plaintiffs appealed to this court.
AH F"anklim R. -Mackey and Mr .11. 0 Claug.hton for
appellants.
_ir IV L. Cole and Mr T. J Darlingtonfor appellee.
MR.

JUSTWE

GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Stephney Forrest, in 1845, purchased a parcel of land in
Washington, and conveyed it to three persons, "trustees for
the Union Beneficial Societv of Washington City," habendum
to them "and their successors in office forever, for the sole use
and beiyefit of the Union Beneficial Society of the City ofWashington as aforesaid, for a burial ground, and for no
other purpose whatever." Forrest died in 1855 , and all
three trustees afterwards died.
The Union Beneficial Societv was an unincorporated association for the mutual aid of its members in case of sickness,
and for their burial in case of death. This land was used by
the society for a burial ground for nearly forty years, and
then, by order of the board of health, ceased to be so used,
and all the bodies which had been buried there were exhumed
avtl removed to other cemeteries. Grimshaw afterwards procured conveyances of the land to himself from the heirs of the
trustees named in Forrest's deed, as well as from Forrest's
widow azid fTonurDs. Brooks, one of his heirs, and from Wells,
the last presideilt of the society and one of its three surviving
members. And the society (which, by the terms of its articles
of association, was to continue so long as it had six members)

:348

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

-does not appear to have since done any acts, held any meetings or kept any records, and was practically dissolved and
-extinct.
The present bill was filed by the other heirs of Forrest
:against Grimshaw and Mrs. Brooks, praying for a decree that
the land had reverted to Forrest's heirs, and for a partition
-of the land between the plaintiffs and Grimshaw as grantee
of :Mrs. Brooks, and for cancellation of the deeds from the
.heirs of the trustees to Grinmshaw, as being a cloud upon the
.plaintiffs' title, and for general relief.
The original joinder of Mrs. Brooks as a defendant is umm-porTqnt. By reason of having conveyed her right to Grim:shaw, she had no interest in the suit, and filed no answer,
and the plaintiffs, before the hearing, dismissed their bill as
.aganst her.
iNor can the joinder of "Horace Cummings, trustee," as a
,plaintiff in this bill, affect the rights of the principal parties
,to the suit. The deeds made to him by the other plaintiffs,
.two months before this suit was brought, and produced at the
hearing, showed that -the land was conveyed by them to Cummings in trust to sell and convey it to such persons and upon
such terms and conditions as their solicitor should ditect, and
to.distribute the proceeds of such sale according to the terms
of a paper, copies of which were in the hands of the solicitor
and of Cummings respectively Although that paper is not
in the record, the terms of those deeds clearly show Cummings
'to have been a mere trustee to bring suit and to sell the land
for the benefit of the other plaintiffs, and iot in his own
behalf, notwithstanding the allegation, in the bill thereafter
filed by him alone, and voluntarily dismissed upon the filing
of the present bill, that by those deeds the whole beneficial
interest and estate vested in him. Perhaps, as suggested by
the counsel of the appellee, the former bill was dismissed for
fear of the rule of law, recogmized in Sckutenberg v. Harrviman,
21 Wall. 44, 63, that a right of entry for breach of a condition
subsequent cannot be alienated.
The allegation in the answer, that Forrest purchased this
land in behalf of the society, and with its money, is supported

HOPKINS v. GRIAISHAW
Opinion of the Court.

by no competent -and sufficient evidence. The only evidence
upon this point was the testimony, taken forty years after the
transaction, of Forrest's widow and daughter, respectively the.
grandmother and the mother of Grimshaw's wife.
The first question presented in relation to this testimony is.
whether the widow was a competent witness to prove admissions or declarations supposed to have been made by her husband in conversation with her.
At common law, upon grounds. of public policy, husband.
and wife (with some exceptions not here. material) were not.
permitted, even by consent, to give evidence for or against
each other, or to testify, even after the ending of the marriage relation by death or divorce, to private communicationswhich took place between them while it lasted. Stezn v
Bowman, 13 Pet. 209, 222, O'Connor v HajoriankTs,4 Man.
& Gr. 435, S. C., 5 Scott N. R. 394:, 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,
§§ 334-337.
The Congress of the United States, by a clause originally
inserted in the Civil Appropriation Act of July 2, 1864, c. 210,.
§ 3, 13 Stat. 351, and embodied in section 858 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, has enacted that there shall beno exclusion of any witness in a civil action because he .is a
party to or interested in the issue tried. But that clause has.
merely removed all disqualifications of witnesses for interest, and does not affect the exclusion of testimony of a husband or wife upon grounds of public policy Lucas v. Brooks,
18 Wall. 436, 453, Bassett v United States, 137 U. S. 496,.
505.
Congress, on the same day, passed another act, entitled "An
act relating to the law of evidence in the District of Columbia," by which it was enacted "that on the trial of any issue
joined, or of any matter or question, or on any inquiry arisinin any suit; action or other proceeding in any court of justice,
in the District of Columbia, or before any person having b%
law, or by consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and
examine evidence, within said District, the parties thereto, and
the persons in whose behalf any such action or other proceeding may be brought or defended, and any and all persons in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

terested in the same, shall; except as hereinafter excepted, be
competent and compellable to give evidence, either vva voce
-or by deposition, according to the practice of the court, on
behalf of either or any of the parties to said action or other
proceeding- Provided, that nothing herein contained shall
render any person who is charged with any offence, in any
criminal proceeding, competent or compellable to give evidence for or against himself or herself, or shall render any
person compellable to answer any question tending to criminate himself or herself, or shall, in any criminal proceeding,
render any husband competent or compellable to give evidence
for or against his wife, or any wife competent or compellable
to give evidence for or against her husband; or in any proceeding instituted in consequence of adultery, nor shall any husband be compellable to disclose any communication made to
him by his wife during the marriage, nor shall any wife be
compellable to disclose any communication made to her by her
husband during the marriage." Act of July 2, 1864, c. 222,
13 Stat. 874.
This act (except in the restriction to the District of Columbia) was taken, almost word for word, from modern English
statutes,. .the first half of it (except the words "and any
.and all persons interested in the same," w~ho had been
made competent witnesses by the statute of 6 & 7 Viet. c. 85)
from section 2' of the statute of 14 & 15 Vict. c. 99, the first
two clauses of the proviso from section 3 of that statute, and
the last two clauses, being those concerning husband and wife,
from the statute of 16 & 17 Viet. e. 83, § 3.
The same act has been regnacted in the Revised Statutes of
the District of Columbia, with hardly any 'change, except in
'substituting for the words "except as -hereinafter excepted,"
the words "except as provided in the following section", and
in making the proviso a separate section, omitting the words,
"Provided, that nothing herein contained," and- beginning
-vith the words, "Nothing in the preceding section." Rev
:Stat. D. 0. §§ 876, 877.
The latter part, which cpnstituted the -proviso in the act of
,1864, c. 222, and which now forms section 877 of the Revised

HOPKINS v. GRIMSHAW
Opinion of the Court.

Statutes of the District of Columbia, is upon its face, and
according to its uniform construction in the couhts of the
District of Columbia, not new and affirmative legislation, but
wholly negative, and by way of proviso or exception out of
the enactment which goes before, and therefore has no application to any cases other than those in which the husband or
wife, called as a witness, is a party, in name or in fact, to the
suit, or interested in it, and does not make a husband or
wife, not a party to or interested in the suit, competent to
testify, before or after the death of the other, to private communications between the latter and the witness.
United
States v. Guiteaw, 1 Mackey, 498, 547, 548, Clarkc v Zrause,
2 Mackey, 559, 572, floltzman v. Wagner, 5 Mackey, 15, 16,
Beale v Brown, 6 Mackey, 574, 577. See also Barbat v
Allen, 7 Exch. 609, Percival v Ganey, 14 Jurist, 1056, 1062,
5. a., cited 7 Exch. 611, Alcoc v. Alcock, 5 De G. & Sm.
671, T7e Queen v Payne, L. R. 1 C. 0. 349, 355, The
Queen v. Thompson, L. R. 1 0. 0. 377.
Stephney Forrest's widow was neither a party to nor interested in this suit, having conveyed all her interest in the subject thereof to the defendant Grimshaw before the suit was
brought. Shp was therefore incompetent to testify to private
&nversations between her and her husband in his lifetime,
and a conversation between them in their own home, in the
presence of no one but their young daugbter, who does not
appear to have taken any part in it, must be deemed to be a
private conversation, within the rule. Jacobs v
esler, 113
Mass. 157.
The daughter herself may have been a competent witness
to such a conversation. But her testimony, which amounted
to no more than that she heard her father, as he left home
one morning, say that he was going to the secretary of the
society to get money to buy land for the society, was clearly
insufficient to prove that he bought the land with money of
the society, or that the society had any greater or other title,
legal or equitable, than appeared to be conveyed to it by the
deed made by him to, and accepted by, the trustees in its
behalf. Such slight testimony to a casual remark of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

supposed trustee, more than forty years ago, falls far short of
the clear proof required by a court of equity., whenever a trust
in real estate is sought to be implied, against the terms of a
deed of conveyance, by parol evidence of payment of, the
price by a third person.
Prevost v Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481.,
Slocum v ]Marshall, 2 Wash. 0. 0. 397, Smith v Burnham,
3 Sumner, 435.
We are then brought to. the principal question in the case,
which is of the nature and effect of the deed from Forrest to
trustees for the Union Beneficial Society for a burial ground.
The first inquiry which naturally arises is whether the
deed was for a charitable use, in the legal sense. If it was,
the conveyance would not be open to any legal objection by
reason of- the length of time during which the trust might
last, or because of the society named not-being a corporation.
Ould v. lVashmngton Tosvital, 95 U. S. 303, Russell v Allen,
107 U S. 163, 171. And the trustees, although the deed did
not in terms run to their heirs and assigns, would take the
legal estate in fee. Russell v Allen, above cited, Potter v.
Couch, 141 U S. 296,309, Easterbrooksv Tillinglast,5'Gray,
17, 21.
A grant for the maintenance of a churchyard or burial
ground in connection with a church or religious society, or of
a public burial ground, or a burial ground of all persons of a
certain race, class or neighborhood. might be considered as in
the nature of a dedication for a pious and charitable use.
Beatty v. Euartz, 2 Pet. 566, 583, 584, Cincznna&v. Wdite, 6
Pet. 431, 436, Jones v. Habersham,3 Woods, 443, 470, and 107
U S. 174, 183, 184, Dexter v. Gardner, 7 Allen. 243, 247,
In re TFaughan, 33 Oh. D. 187.
By the act of Congress of May 5, 1870, c. 80, § 5, renacted
in the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia, provision
has been made for the voluntary incorporation of cemetery
associations in the District of Columbia, and "any person or
persons desiring to dedicate any lot of land, not exceeding five
acres, as a burial ground or place for the interment for the dead,
for the use of any society, association or neighborhood," may
convey such land by deed to the District of Columbia, "speci-

HOPKINS v. GRIMSHAW
Opinon of the Court.

fying in such deed the society 5 association or neighborhood
for the use of which the dedication is desired to be made,
and thereby vest the title to such land in perpetuity for the
uses stated in the deed." 16 Stat. 106,107, Rev. Stat. D. C. §
594-604.
But the conveyance now in question, made to private persons as trustees, twenty-five years before the passage of- that
act, was expressed to be "for the sole use and benefit, of the
Union Beneficial Society of the City of Washington as aforesaid, for a burial ground, and for no other purpose whatever."
The articles of association of that society appear to have contemplated the burial of none but its own members, and the
-usage, which early sprang up, of permitting the interment in
its burial ground of other inhabitants of the District of Columbia, upon the payment of certain fees, appears to have been
adopted, not from any charitable motive, but as a source of
private profit to the members of the association. It may be
doubted whether, in the absence of express statute, the burial
ground of such a society can be held to be a public charitable
use. See King v. Parker, 9 Cush. 7V; -Donnelly v. Boston
Catholic Cemetery, 146 Mass. 163, Anon., 3 Atk. 277, Pease
v Patthnson,32 Ch. D. 154, Cunnack v. Edwards, (1896) 2
Ch. 679, In re Buck, (1896) 2 Ch. 727.
If it be assumed, however, as most favorable to the defendant, that this deed created a charitable trust, it was not a grant
indicating a general charitable purpose and pointing out the
mode of carrying that purpose into effect, thus coming within:
the class of cases in which courts of chancery, when the particular mode bad failed, have carried -out the general purpose.
Mormon Church v United States, 136 U. S. 1, 51-60, Jackson
v. Phillips, 14 Allen, 539. But the trust was restricted, in
plain and unequivocal terms, to the particular society to be
benefited, as well as to the purpose of a burial ground, adding
(as if to put the matter beyond doubt) "and for no other purpose whatever." The trust would end, therefore, at the latest,
when the land ceased to be used as a burial ground and the
society was dissolved. Easterbrook v [illinghast,above cited,
Reed v. Stotgfer, 56 Maryland, 236, 254, Second Unversalist
VOL. CLXv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the CourL

Socely v Dugan, 65 Maryland, 460, In1 re Rymer, (1895) 1
Oh. 19, 31, 32.
In Easterlrooks v. Tillinghast, above cited, an inhabitant of
a town devised land to a trustee named, and his successors to
be appointed as provided in the will, in trust to apply the mcome in support of the gospel and maintenance of a pastor or
elder in a church already existing in the town, of a certain
faith and practice, so long as the members of that church "or
their successors shall maintain the visibility of a church in said
faith and order, and uniting in fellowship and communion
with those who hold and practise said principles, and no
others." Three years after the testator's death, the members
of the 6hurch, reduced to two in number, voted and resolved,
at a meeting called by public notice, that they would no longer
endeavor to maintain the appearance of a visible church, and
declared the church dissolved and extinct. The Supreme Judicial Cotrt of Massachusetts, speaking by Mr. Justice Metcalf,
decided that the trustee took an estate in fee, but that, the
church having been dissolved, and having ceased to be a visible
church, he held the land for the devisor's heirs at law as a
restflting trust. 5 Gray, 21.
In Rawson v. Uxbrzdge, 7 Allen, 125, cited by the defendant,
the deed was to a town of land already, as the deed recited,
"being improved for a burying place," habendum "to the said
town of -Uxbridge forever, to their only proper use, benefit
and behoof, for -a burying place forever." There were no such
negative words, as in the deed now before us, "and for no
other purpose whatever", the action was at law, and the
only question argued or considered was whether the deed
created an estate upon condition subsequent. While deciding
that it did not, Chief Justice Bigelow said "If it be asked
whether the law will give any force to the words in a deed,
which declare that the grant is made for a specific purpose, or
to accomplish a particular object, the answer is, that they may,
if properly expressed, create a confidence or trust, or amount
to a covenant or agreement on the part of the grantee."
7 Allen, 130.
The somewhat similar cases of Crane v Hyde Park, 135

HOPKINS v. GRIAISHAW
Opinion of the Cour.

Mass. 147, and .M1ahonmg County v Young, 16 U. S. App.
253, also cited by the defendant, likewise turned upon a question of forfeiture for breach of a condition subsequent in a
deed to a municipal corporation.
In the case at bar, the trust created by the deed having
been terminated, according to its express provisions, by the
land ceasing to be used as a burial ground, and the dissolution
and extinction of the society for whose benefit the grant was
made, there arises, by a familiar principle of equity jurisprudence, a resulting trust to the grantor and his heirs, whether
his conveyance was by way of gift, or for valuable consideration. 2 Fonblanque Eq. 116, 133, and notes, 2 Story Eq.
Jur. §. 1199, 1200, Hill on Trustees, 113, 133, Easterbrook8v
Tillinghast,and Reed v Stoiufer, above cited.
The question suggests itself whether the case at bar falls
within the rule of law, known as the rule against perpetuities,
by which an estate, legal or equitable, granted or devised by
one person to another, which, by the terms of the instrument
creating it, is not to vest until the happening of a contingency
which may by possibility not occur within the period of a life
or lives in being (treating a child in its mother's womb as in
being) and twenty-one years afterwards, is void for remoteness, and consequently a limitation over to a third person
which may possibly not take effect within the period is void,
and the estate remains in the first taker. That rule does not
apply to a gift to a charity, with no intervening gift to or for
the benefit of a private person or corporation r.r to a contingent limitation over from one charity to another. But it does
apply to a grant or devise to a charity after one to a private
person, as well as to a grant or devise to a private person,
although limited over after an immediate gift to a charity
Russell v Allen, 107 U. S. 163, 171 , Jones v llabersham, 107
IT. S. 174, 185, ._1eArth ur v Scott, 113 U. S. 340, 381, 382,
B rattle Square 6Chureh v Grant, 3 Gray, 142, Theologwai
Education Society v Attorney General, 135 Mass. 285, In, re
Tyler, (1891) 3 Ch. 252, In.re B3owen, (1893) 2 Oh. 491.
But when there is no limitation over in the grant or devise,
and the grantor or devisor, or the heirs of either, claim the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Qpinion of the Court.

estate, not under the grant or 'devise, but because, by reason
of the failure thereof, the estate, legal or equitable, as the
case may be, reverts or results to him or them, the rule against
perpetuities is inapplicable.
Even when the first gift is strictly upon condition subsequent, requiring an entry on the part of the grantor or devisor,
or his heirs, to revest the estate in him or them, the American courts have treated their title as unaffected by the rule
against perpetuities. Cowell v 8przngs Co., 100 U S. 55,
Gray v. Blanchard, 8 Pick. 283, Austzn v. Cambrzdgeport
Partsh,21 Pick. 215, Guildv. Richaidg, 16 Gray, 309; Tobey
v. Moore, 130 Mass. 448, Gray on Perpetuities, §§ 304-310.
But the deed in this case is clearly, in terms and effect,
a conveyance in trust, with no words apt to create a condition. Stanley v Colt, 5 Wall. 119, Barker v. Barrows, 138
Mass. 578, Attorney General v. Wax LCiandler8' Co., L. R. 6
H. L. 1. In such a case, it has been held, both in this country
and in England, that, upon the failure of the trust declared
in the deed, although depending upon a contingency which
might not happen within the period prescribed by the rule
against perpetuities, the resulting trust to the grantor and
his heirs is not invalidated by the rule. Ea8terbrooks v.
Tillinghast, above cited, Stone v Framsngam, 109 Mass.
303, First Unsversalist Society v. RBoZand, 155 Mass. 171,
1n re Randell, 38 Ch. D. 213, 218, 219, In re Bowen, (1893)
2 Oh. 491, 494. In 1?andell's case, Mr. Justice North said
"In my opinion, a direction that in a particular event a fund
shall go in the way in which the'law would make it go in the
absence of such a direction, cannot be said to be an invalid
gift, or contrary to the policy of the law" And in Bowen's
case, Mr. Justice Sterling said "As property may be given
to a charity in perpetuity, it may be given for any shorter
period, however long; and the interest undisposed of, even if
it cannot be the subject of a direct executory gift, may be.left
to devolve as the law prescribes."
In the case at bar, our conclusions as to the effect of
Forrest's deed, assuming it to be in the nature of a valid
dedication for a pious and charitable use, may be summed

HOPKINS v. GRIMSHAW
Opinion of the Court.

up as follows The trustees named in the deed took the legal
estate in fee. The equitable estate in fee was from the beginning, and always remained, in the grantor and his heirs.
The trust declared in the deed, for a burial ground for the
Union Beneficial Society, came to an end, according to its
own express rest'riction and limitation, by the land ceasing to
be used as a burial ground, and the dissolution of the society
Thereupon, the trustees held the legal estate in fee, subject to
a resulting trust to the grantor's heirs, unaffected by the rule
against perpetuities,.and the legal estate of the trustees descended to their heirs, and passed by the deeds of the latter
to the defendant, charged with this resulting trust.
The alternative that the trust expressed in Forrest's deed
was not a charitable use, but was void as tending to create
a perpetuity, and that the trustees, immediately upon the execution and delivery of the deed to them, held the land subject
to a resulting trust for the grantor and his heirs, would be
wholly inconsistent, with the position always taken by the
defendant Grimshaw, and by the trustees and the society
under whom he claims title, and could not, therefore, enure
to his benefit by way of defence to this suit, on the ground
of laches, or otherwise.
All Forrest's heirs (except Mrs.
Brooks, who had conveyed her title to the defendant Grimshaw) have joind as plaintiffs in this bill to enforce the
resulting trust in their favor. Both they and Grimshaw had
acted upon the theory that the deed of Forrest created a
valid trust for the Union Beneficial Society The plaintiffs
made no claim to the land, so long as it was used by that
society for-a burial ground. And neither the trustees, nor
Grimshaw claiming under them, contended that tkey took
an absolute title, free from the trust expressed in Forrest's
deed. The real controversy between the plaintiffs and Grimshaw -was as to the construction of the deed, and as to the
duration, of the express trust therein declared for the Union
Beneficial Society
The objection that the plaintiffs' only remedy is at law is
unavailing. The bill, besides specifically praying that the
land be decreed to have reverted to Forrest's heirs, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

a partition be ordered to be made between the defendant
Grimshaw, as grantee of Mrs. Brooks, one of Forrest's heirs,
and the plaintiffs, his other heirs, and that the deeds to Grimshaw from the heirs of the trustees be declared to be a cloud
upon the plaintiffs' title, contains a prayer for general reliefi
under which the court may grant any relief justified by the
facts stated in the bill and appearing in proof. Jones v.
Van Doren, 130 U. S. 684, 692.
Upon the allegations of the bill, and the proofs at the hearing, the trustees named in Forrest's deed, and their heirs, and
Grimshaw as grantee of the latter, took the legal title in fee,
in any. aspect of the case, subject to a resulting trust for the
heirs of the grantor. A resulting trust is a creature of equity,
ilksns v
and can be enforced in a court of chancery only
Ilolman, 16 Pet. 25, 59. Moreover, the title of the plaintiffs
appearing upon the allegations and proofs to be purely equitable, the bill may also be maintained for partition of the
land. Act of August 15, 1876, c. 297, 19 Stat. 202, Willard v
Willard, 145 U S. 116, Lucas v .King, 2 Stockton, (10 N. J
Eq.) 277.
The court, having acquired jurisdiction of the bill upon both
these grounds, was authorized to retain it for the purpose of
administering complete relief between the parties, including
the question of any allowance to which Grimshaw might be
entitled for the expense incurred in the removal of the bodies
from the'burial ground to other cemeteries, or upon any other
account.

The decree below appears to have proceeded upon the misapprehension -that the heirs of Forrest were not entitled to
any relief, unless by reason of his membership in the Union
Beneficial Society
Decree reversed, and case remandedfor further proceedings.
= coformsty wIth this ojpnton.

