OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Nhatever might have appeared upon the face of the record thelegal and the equitable title both remained in the government.
The. land was, therefore, not subject to state taxation.

Tax

sales and tax deeds issued-during that time were void.

The

defendant took nothing by such deeds. No estoppel ct t be
invoked against the plaintiff. His title dates from the time of
payment in 1888. The defendant does not hold under him and
has no tax title arising subsequently thereto.
With respect to the suggestion of counsel that it is a
hardship that one who has changed wild land into a farm and
greatly improved 4t should, after the lapse of many'years, be
deprived of the benefit of those improvements by reason of
an undisclosed defectin the record title, it is sufficient to say
that there is nothing in this record to indicate that the
defendant ever made any improvements or expended a dollar
otherwise than in paying for the tax title. We cannot, of
course, take the intimation of. counsel in the brief as evidence
of a fact not appearing on the record. Further, so far as the
money paid for taxes is eoncerned, it is familiar law that a
purchaser of a .tax title takes all the chances. There is no
warranty on the part of the State. Beyond this, the statutes
of Iowa contemplate a return of taxes when it is disclosed
that the land was not subject to taxation. 1 McClain's Rev.
Stat. 1888, § 1381, p. 353. We see no error in the decision
of the Supreme Court of Iowa, and it is, therefore,

Affi med.

GULF,

COLORADO AND SANTA FE
COMPANY v. ELLIS.

RAILWAY

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TRE STATE OF- TEXAS.
No. 133.

Submitted November 3, 1896. -D ecided January 18,1891.

The act of the legislature of Texas of April 5, 1889, which provides that
"any person in this State having a valid bona fide claim for personal
services rendered or labor done, or for damages, or for overcharges on
freight, or claims for stock killed or injured by the train of any railway

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FR WY v. ELLIS.

151

Statement of the Case
company, provided that such claim for stock killed or injured shall be
presented,.to the agent of the company nearest to the point where such
stock was killed or injured, against any railway corporation operating a
railroad in this State, and the amount of such claim does not exceed
$50, may present the same, verified by his affidavit, for payment to such
corporation by filing it with any station agent of such corporation in
any county where suit may be instituted for the same, and if, at the
expiration of thirty days after such presentation, such claim has not
been paid or satisfied, he may immediately institute suit thereon in the
proper court; and if he shall finally establish his claim, and obtain
judgment for the full amount thereof, as presented for payment to
such corporation in such court, or any court to which the suit may have
been appealed, he shall be entitled to recover the amount of such claim
and all costs of suit, and in addition thereto all reasonable attorney's
fees, provided he has an attorney employed in his case, not to exceed
10, to be assessed and awarded by the court or jury trying the issue,"
operates to deprive the railroad companies of property without due
process of law, and denies to them the equal protection of the law, in
that it singles them qut of all citizens and corporations, and requires
them to pay in certain cases attorney's fees to the parties successfully
suing them, while it gives to them no like or corresponding benefit.
The mere fact of classification is not sufficient to relieve a statute from
the reach of the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and ii
all cases it must appear not merely that a classification has been made,
but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground - something which
bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification, and is
not a mere arbitrary selection. Tested by these principles the statute
in controversy cannot be sustained.

ON April 5, 1889, the legislature of the State of Texas
passed this act
" SEOrro 1. Be it enacted by tite leg1'slatureof the State of
Texas, That after the time when this act shall take effect,
any person in this State having a valid bona fde claim for
personal services rendered or labor done, or for damages, or
for overcharges on freight, or claims for stock killed or injured by the train of any railway company, provided that
such claims for stock killed or injured shall be presented to
the agent of the company nearest to the point where such
stoolewas killed or injured, against any railway corporaion
operating a railroad in this State, and the amount of such
claim does not exceed $50, may present the same, verified
by his affidavit, for payment to such corporation by filing

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
OpIrnon of the Court.

it with any station agent of such corporation in any county
where suit may be instituted for the same, and if, at the expiration of thirty days after such presentation, such claim has
not been paid. or satisfied, he may immediately institute suit
thereon in the proper court, and if he shall finally establish
his claim, and obtain judgment for the full amount thereof,
as presented for payment to such corporation in such court,
or any court to which the suit may have been appealed, he
shall be entitled to recover the amount of such claim and all
costs of suit, and in addition thereto all reasonable attorney's
fees, provided he has an attorney employed in his case, not
to exceed $10, to be assessed and awarded by the court or
jury .trying the issue." Sayles' Supplement to Texas Civil
Statutes, p. 768, Art. 4266a.
On October 9, 1890, defendant in error commenced this
action before a justice of the peace, to recover $50 for a colt
killed by the railway company The complaint alleged presentation and non-payment, as required by the act, and demanded $10 attorney fee. The company answered admitting
everything except the clain for the attorney's fee. The case
passed, after judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the
amount claimed and an attorney's fee of $10, through the
District Court and the Court of Civil Appeals, to the Supreme
Court of the State, by which, on May 10, 1S94, the judgment
against the company was affirmed. 87 Texas, 19. To reverse
.1such judgment the company sued out this writ of error.
MrL&
P. D Kenna and .r J I" Terry for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mli. JUSTiOE BREWE., after stating the case, delivered the
opimon of the court.
The single question in this case is the constitlfionality of
the act allowing attorney's fees. The. contention is that it
operates to deprive the railroad companies of property with-

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA Ft R'Y v. ELLIS.

153

Opinion of the Court.

out due process of law, and denies to them the equal protection
of the law, in that it singles them out of all citizens and corporations, and requires them to pay in certain cases attorney's
fees to the parties successfully suing them, while it gives to
them no like or corresponding benefit. Only against railroad
companies is such exaction made, and only in certain cases.
We have not been favored with any argument or brief.
from the defendant in error. Doubtless he believed, and
justly, that nothing could be added to the arguments, so
fully and strongly made in support of the constitutionality
of this law in the respective opinions of the two highest
courts of the State.
The Supreme Court of the State considered this statute as
a whole and held it valid, and as such it is presented to us for
consideration. Considered as such, it is simply a statute imposing a penalty upon railroad corporations for a failure to
pay certain debts. No individuals are thus punished, and no
other corporations. The act singles out a certain class of
debtors and punishes them when for like delinquencies it punishes no others. They are not treated as other debtors, or
equally with other debtors. They cannot appeal to the courts
as other litigants under like conditions and-with like protection. If litigation terminates adversely to them, they are
mulcted in the attorney's fees of the successful plaintiff, if it
terminates in their favor, they recover no attorney's fees. It
is no sufficient answer to say that they are punished only when
adjudged to be in the wrong. They do not enter the courts
upon equal terms. They must pay attorney's fees if wrong;
they do not recover any if right, while their adversaries recover if right and pay nothing if wrong. In the suits, therefore, to which they are parties they are discriminated against,
and are not treated as others. They do not stand equal before
the law They do not receive its equal protection. All this
is obvious from a mere inspection of the statute.
It is true the amount of the attorney's fee which may be
charged is small, but if the State has the power to thus mulct
them in a small amount it has equal power to do so in a larger
sum. The matter of amount does not determine the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of right, and the party who has a legal right may insist upon
it, if only a shilling be involved. As well said by Mr. Justice
Bradley in Boyd v. United States, 116 U S. 616, 635 "Illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first footing in
that way, namely, by silent approaches and slight deviations
from legal modes of procedure. This can only be obviated
by adhering to the rule that constitutional provisions for the
security of person and property should be liberally construed.
A close and literal construction deprives them of half their
efficacy, and leads to gradual depreciation of the right, as if it
consisted more in sound than in substance. It is the duty of
courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizens and against any stealthy encroachments thereon. Their
motto should be obstaprzncipiis."
While good faith and a knowledge of existing conditions on
the part of a legislature is to be presumed, yet to carry that
presumption to the extent of always holding that there must
be some undisclosed and unknown reason for subjecting certain individuals or corporations to hostile and discriminating
legislation is to make the protecting clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment a mere rope of sand, in no manner restraining
state action.
It is well settled that corporations are persons within the
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States. Santa Clara Oounty v. Southern Pacfic
Railroad, 118 U. S.391, Pembina .Xining Co. v Pennylvanma, 125 U. S.181, 189, .issour, PacfcRailway v..Mackey,
127 U. S. 205; 2ifinneapolis& St. lous Railway v. Herrick,127
U. S.210, 3iXinneapolis & St. Zoute Railway v Beck£with, 129
U. S. 26, Charlotte &i Columbia Railroad v Gibbe8, 142 U. S.
386,. Coington & -LexingtonTurnpike Corapany v. Sandford,
164: U. S.578. The rights and securities guaranteed to persons by that instrument cannot be disregarded in respect to
these artificial entities called corporations any more than they
can be in respect to the individuals who are the equitable owners of the property belonging to such corporations. A State
has no more power to deny to corporations the equal protection of the law than it has to individual citizens.

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA F

R'Y v. ELLIS.

155

Opinion of the Court.

But it. is said that it is not within the scope of the Fourteenth Amendment to withhold from States the power of
classification, and that if the law deals alike with all of a certain class it is not obnoxious to the charge of a denial of equal
protection, While, as a general proposition, this is undeniably
true, Raye8 v. M168ourz, 120 U. S. 68, Railroad Company v
Maclkey, 127 U. S. 205, Fal8ton v. Nevmn, 128 U. S. 578, Bell'8
Gap Railroad v. Penn8ylvansa,134: U. S. 232; _PaMijic Exres8
Co. v Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, Giozza v Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657,
Columbia Southern Railway v WTzg1t, 151 U. S. 470, .Xarchant v. .'enn8ylvanza Railroad, 153 U S. 380, St. Lous &
San .Francsco Railway v 3fathews, 165 U. S. 1, yet it is
equally true that such classification cannot be made arbitrarily The State may not say that all white men shall be
subjected to the payment of the attorney's fees of parties successfully suing them and all black men not. It may not say
that all men beyond a certain age shall be alone thus subjected, or all men possessed of a certain wealth. These are
distinctions which do not furnish' any proper basis for the
attempted classification. That must always rest upon some
difference which bears a reasonable and just relation to the
act in respect to which the classification is proposed, and can
never be made arbitrarily and without any such basis.
As well said by Black, J., in State v Loomte, 115 Missouri,
307, 314, in which a statute making it-a misdemeanor for any
corporation engaged in manufacturing or mining to issue in
payment of the wages of its employes any order, check, etc.,
payable otherwise than in lawful money ot the United States,
unless negotiable and redeemable at its face value in cash or
in goods and supplies at the option of the holder at the store
or other place of business of the corporation, was held class
legislation and void "Classification for legislative purposes
must have some reasonable basis upon which to stand. It
must be evident that differences which would serve for a classification for some purposes furnish no reason whatever for a
classification for legislative purposes. The differences which
will support class legislation must be such as in the nature of
things furmsh a reasonable basis for separate'laws and regula-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tions. Thus the legislature may fix the age At which persons
,shall be deemed competent to contract for themselves, but no
one will claim that competency to contract can be made to depend upon stature or color of the hair. Such a classification
for such a purpose would be arbitrary and a piece of legislative
despotism, and therefore not the law of the land."
In Vanzant v IMaddel, 2 Yerger, 260, 270, Catron, J., (afterwards Mr. Justice Catron of this ourt,) speaking for the Supreme Court of Tennessee, declared. "Every partial or private
law, which directly proposes to destroy or affect individual
rights, or does the same thing by affording remedies leading
to similar consequences, is unconstitutional and void. Were
this otherwise, odious individuals and corporate bodies would
be governed by one rule, and the mass of the community, who
made the law, by another."
In Dibrell v Morris' Hlers, Supreme Court of Tennessee,
15 S. W Rep. 87, 95, Baxter, Special Judge, reviewing at some
length cases of classification, closes the review with these words.
"We conclude, upon a review of the cases referred to above,
that, whether a statute be public or private, general or special,
in form, if it attempts to create distinctions and classifications
between the citizens of this State, the basis of such classification must be natural and not arbitrary"
In Bell's Gap Railroad v Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232, the
question was presented as to the power of the State to classify
for purposes of taxation, and while it was conceded that a large
discretion in these respects was vested in the various legislatures, the fact of a limit to such discretion was recognized, the
court, by Mr. Justice Bradley, saying, on page 237 "All such
regulations, and those of like character, so long as they proceed within reasonable limits and general usage, are within
the discretion of the state legislature or the people of the State
in framing their constitution. But clear and hostile discrinminations against patticular persons and classes, especially such
as are of an unusual character, unknown to the practice of our
governments, might be obnoxious to the constitutional prohibition."
It is, of course, proper that every debtor should pay his

GULF, COLORADO & SA.NTA F]

RY v. ELLIS.

157-

Opinion of the Court.

debts, and there might be no impropriety in giving to every
successful suitor attorney's fees. Such a provision would bear
a reasonable relation to the delinquency of the debtor, and
would certainly create no inequality of right or protection.
But before a distinction can be made between debtors, and
one be punished for a failure to pay his debts, while another
is permitted to become in like manner delinquent without any
punishment, there must be some difference in the obligation
to pay, some reason ihy the duty of payment is more imperative in the one instance than in the other.
If it be said that this penalty is cast only upon corporations, that to them special privileges are granted, and therefore upon them special burdens may be imposed, it is 'a
sufficient answer to say that the penalty is not imposed upon
all corporations. The burden does not go with the privilege.
Only railroads of all corporations are selected to bear this
penalty The rule of equality is ignored.
It may be said that certain corporations are chartered for
charitable, educational or religious purposes, and abundant
reason for not visiting them with a penalty for the non-payment of debts is found in the fact that their chartered privileges are not given for pecuniary profit. But the penalty is
not imposed upon all business corporations, all chartered for
the purpose of private gain. The banking corporations, the
manufacturing corporations and others like them are exempt.
Further, the penalty -is imposed not upon all corporations
charged with the uast public duty of transportation, but
only upon those charged with a particular form of that duty
So the classification is not based on any idea of special privileges by way of incorporation, nor of special privileges given
thereby for purposes of private gain, nor even of such privileges granted for the discharge of one general class of public
duties.
But if the classification is not based upon the idea of
special privileges, can it be sustained upon the basis of the
business in which the corporations to be punished are engaged? That such corporations may be classified for some
purposes is unquestioned. The business in which they are

158 _

OCTOBER TERMf, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

engaged is of a peculiarly dangerous nature, and the legislature, in the exercise of its police powers, may justly require
many things to be done by them m order to secure life and
property Fencing of railroad tracks, use of safety couplers,
and a multitude of. other things easily suggest themselves.
And any classification for the imposition of such special
duties - dtties arising out of the peculiar business in which
they are engaged- is a just classification, and not one within
the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment. Thus it is
frequently required that they fence their tracks, and as a
penalty for a failure to fence double damages in case of loss
are inflicted. Missour, Pac c Railway v. ffumem, 115 U. S.
512. But this and all kindred cases proceed upon the theory
of a special duty resting upon railroad corporations by reason
of the business in which they are engaged-a duty not resting upon others, a duty which can be enforced by the legislature in any proper manner; and whether it enforces it by
penalties in the way of fines coming to the State, or by
double damages to a party injured, is immaterial. It is all
done in the exercise of the police power of the State and
with a view to enforce just and reasonable police regulations.
While this actibn is for stock killed, the recovery of attorney's fees cannot be sustained upon the theory just suggested.
There is no fence law in Texas. The legislature of the State
has not deemed it necessary for the protection of life or property to require railroads to fence their tracks, and as no duty
is imposed, there can be no penalty for non-performance. Indeed, the statute does not proceed upon any such theory, it
is broader in its scope. Its object is to compel the payment
of the several classes of debts named,, and was so regarded by
the Supreme Court of the State.
But a mere statute to compel the payment. of indebtedness
does not come within the scope of police regulations. The
hazardous business of railroading carries with it no special
necessity for the prompt payment of debts. That is a duty
resting upon all debtors, and while in certain cases there may
be a peculiar obligation whici may be enforced by penalties,
yet nothing of that kind springs from the mere work of

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FRF R'Y v. ELLIS.

159

Opinion of the Court.

railroad transportation. Statutes have been sustained giving
special protection to the claims of laborers and mechanics,
but no such idea underlies this legislation. It does not aim
to protect the laborer or the mechanic alone, for its benefits
are conferred upon every individual in the State, rich or poor,
high or low, who has a claim of the character described. It
is not a statute for the protection of particular classes of
individuals supposed to need protection, but for the punishment of certain corporations on account of their delinquency
Neither can it be sustained as a proper means of enforcing
the payment of small debts and preventing any unnecessary
litigation in respect to them, because it does not impose the
penalty in all cases where the amount in controversy is within
the limit named in the statute. Indeed, the statute arbitrarily
singles out one class of debtors and punishes it for a failure to
perform certain duties - duties which are equally obligatory
upon all debtors, a punishment not visited by reason of the
failure to comply with any proper police regulations, or for
the protection of the laboring classes or to prevent litigation
about trifling matters, or in consequence of any special corporate privileges bestowed by the State. Unless the legislature may arbitrarily select one corporation or one class of
corporations, one individual or one class of individuals, and
visit a penalty upon them which is not imposed upon others
guilty of like delinquency this statute cannot be sustained.
But arbitrary selection can never be justified by calling it
classification. The equal protection demanded by the Fourteenth Amendment forbids this. No language is more worthy
of frequent and thoughtful consideration than these words of
Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for this court, in Yick lTo v.
Ho.pkzf8, 118 U. S.356, 369 "When we consider the nature
and the theory of our institutions of government, the principles upon which they are supposed to rest, and review the
history of their development, we are constrained to conclude
that they do not mean to leave room -for the play and action
of purely personal and arbitrary power." The first official
action of this nation declared the foundation of government
in these words "We hold these truths to be self-evident,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by
their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among
these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." While
such declaration of principles may not have the force of
organic law, or be made the basis of judicial decision as to
the limits of right and duty, and while in all cases reference
must be had to the organic law of the nation for such limits,
yet the latter is but the body and the letter of which the
former is the thought and the spirit, and it is always safe to
read the letter of the Constitution in the spirit of the Declaration of Independence. No duty rests more imperatively upon
the courts than the enforcement of tb~ose ccipstitutional provisions intended to secure that equality of rights which is the
foundation of free government.
Questions of this character have been frequently presented
to the courts, and it is well to notice a few of the decisions.
In-Alabama a statute provided that a railroad corporation, or
any complainant against it, taking an appeal from a judgment
of a justice of the peace in a suit for damages to live stock, and
failing to sustain such appeal, should be liable for a reasonable
attorney's fee incurred by reason thereof. Code Alabama,
1876, § 1715. This statute was less obnoxious to the charge
of discrimination than the one before us, in that it gave the
same right to the corporation as to its adversary, and it was
limited to cases in which an appeal was taken from a judgment already rendered by a competent judicial officer; yet the
Supreme Court of that State, Souh & North Alabama Railroad v Morris, 64: Alabama, 193, 199, held it ii conflict with
both the state and the Fourteenth Amendment to the United
States Constitution, saying "Justice cannot be sold or denied
by the exaction of a pecuniary consideration for its enjoyment
from one, when it is given freely and open-handed to another,
without money and without price. Nor can it be permitted
that litigants shall be debarred from the free exercise of this
constitutional rigfit by the impositioh of arbitrary, unjust and
odious discriminations, perpetrated under color of establishing
peculiar rules for a particular occupation. Unequal, partial
and discriminatory legislation, which secures this right to

GULF COLORADO- & SANTA FA R'Y v. ELLIS.

161

Opinion of the Court.

some favored class or classes and denies it to others, who are
thus excluded from that equal protection designed to be secured by the general law of the land, is in clear and manifest
opposition to the letter and spirit of the foregoing constitutional provisions." - And again "The section of the code
under consideration (1715) prescribes a regulation cf a peculiar and discriminative character in reference to certain appeals
from justices of the peace. It is not general in its provisions
or applicable to all persons, but is confined to such as own or
control railroads only, and it varies from the general law of
the land by requiring the unsuccessful appellant, in this particular class of cases, to pay an attorney's tax fee not to exceed
twenty dollars. A law which would require all farmers who
raise cotton to pay such a fee in cases where cotton was the
subject-matter of litigation and the owners of this staple were
parties to the suit would be so discriminating in its nature as
to appear manifestly unconstitutional, and one which should
confine the tax alone to physicians or merchants or ministers
of the gospel would be glaring in its obnoxious repugnancy to
those cardinal principles of free government which are found
incorporated, perhaps, in the bill of rights of every state constitution of the various commonwealths of the American Government."
In Mississippi an act somewhat similar in its nature, Laws
Miss. 1882, p. 110, was adjudged unconstitutional, Chkcago, St.
Louta &c. 1ailroadV. Moss, 60 Mississippi, 641, the court saying, on page 646 "The right of appeal cannot be fettered and
clogged with reference to the parties litigant or the attitude
they occupy as plaintiff or defendant.. All litigants, whether
plaintiff or defendant, should be regarded with equal favor by
the law, and before the tribunals for administering it, and
should have the same right to appeal with others similarly
situated. All must have the equal protection of the law, and
its instrumentalities. The same rule must exist for all in the
same circumstances."
In Michigan a statute was passed, Laws Michigan, 1885, c.
234, authorizing the taxing of an attorney's fee of twenty-five
dollars in actions against a railroad company for damages for
VOL. CLXV-11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

cattle killed, and the Supreme Court of that State held it
unconstitutional, Wilder v. Chkcago d- West Mickhgan Railway, 7O -Mfichigan, 382, saying on page 384 "Corporations
have equal rights with natural persons as far as their privileges in the courts are concerned. They can sue and defend
in all courts the same as natural persons, and the law must
be administered as to them with the same equality and justice which it bestows upon every suitor, and without which
the machinery of the law becomes the engine of tyranny
This statute proposes to pumsh a railroad company for
defending a suit brought against itwith a penalty of $25,
if it fails to successfully maintain its defence. The individual
sues for the loss of his cow, and if it is shown that such. loss
was occasioned by his own neglect, and through no fault of
the company, and he thereby loses his suit, the railroad company can recover only the ordinary statutory costs of $10 in
the justice's court, but if he succeeds because of the negligence of the company, the plaintiff is permitted to tax the
$10 and an additional penalty of $25, for it is nothing more.
or less than a penalty Calling it an 'attorney's fee' does not
change its real nature or effect. It is a punishment to the
company, and a reward to the plaintiff, and an incentive to
litigation on his part. This -inequality and injustice cannot
be sustained upon any principle known to the law It is
repugnant to our form of government, and out of harmony
with the genius of our free institutions. The legislature
cannot give to one party in litigation such privileges as will
arm him with special and important pecuniary advantages
over his antagonist." Lafferty v Chicago & West .Michigan
Railway, 71 TMichigan, 35.
So, in Arkansas, an act was passed providing that when
stock was killed by a railroad company the owner might
demand an appraisement, and that if the appraised value was
not paid within a certain time and an action was brought
an attorney's fee for the plaintiff might be taxed and collected,
but it was held by the Supreme Court, St. Louis dc. Railway
v. Williams, 49 Arkansas, 492, that such legislation could not
be sustained. It was construed to be an act imposing a pen-

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FF, R'Y v. ELLIS.

163

Opinion of the Court.

ulty for a failure to abide by.an award of appraisers and contesting its validity in the courts. It is worthy of note that in
the same volume is found a decision by the same court, sustaining a statute allowing an attorney's fee in actions for the
recovery of overcharges by raih'oads, Dow v Beidelman, 49
Arkansas, 455, but the statute had prescribed the rates of
charge for the carriage of passengers by railroads, had forbidden an overcharge, and itwas as a penalty for failure to
comply with such police regulations that the allowance of
an attorney's fee was sustained. See also Jollife v Brown,
Supreme Court of Washington, 14 Wash. 155, in which, it
appearing that there was no statutory obligation on railroad
companies. to fence their right of way, a statute allowing
attorney's fees in actions to recover damages for stock killed,
was declared to be unconstitutional, and Grand Rapids
CMatr Co. v Runne1s, '77 Michigan, i04, in Vhich an act
authorizing an attorney's fee to be taxed in entering judgments for personal services was set aside.
Besides these cases involving attorney's fees are others in
which legislation imposing special burdens on an individual.
or a class has been declared beyond the power of the legislature as against equality of right. In San Antone &e.
1ailway v. lVilson, 19 S.W Rep. 910, the Court of Appeals
of Texas held that a statute providing that in the event of
a railroad company's refusing to pay its indebtedness to an
employe within twenty days after demand, he could recover
as damages twenty per cent in addition to the amount due,
was class legislation and unconstitutional. In the course of
the opinion, after referring to those.statutes allowing double
damages for stock killed, the court observed "But when we
consider the relations of railway companies to their own servants, both as to contracts of employment and payment, we
find a field in which special legislation has no right ordinarily
to enter, and in which railways stand on the same footing
with all other corporations or persons." In Atckhmson & 3Tebraska Railroad v. Baty, 6 Nebraska, 37, there was presented
for consideration a statute which gave to the owner of live
stock accidentally killed or destroyed on a railroad track

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

double its value, and it was held that the statute was void.
Millet v People, 117 Illinois, 294, in which an act of the legislature requiring owners and operators of coal mines to weigh
coal in a certain specified manner, was held invalid as beyond
the power of the legislature to single out certain individuals
and impose upon them burdens not imposed upon all. Frorer
v People, 141 Illinois, 171, where an act which prohibited
persons engaged in mining or manufacturing from keeping a
store for furnishing supplies to their employes was held in
conflict with the constitution. Braceville Coal Co. v People,
147 Illinois, 66, where a like ruling was made in respect to a
statute requiring certain specified corporations to pay the
wages of their employes weekly Eden v People, 161 Illinois, 296, which set aside a statute forbidding barbers, and
barbers only, to keep open their shops or work at their trade
on Sundays. Durkee v Janesville, 28 Wisconsin, 464, in
which an act providing that no costs should be recovered
against the city in an action commenced to-.set aside any
assessment or tax deed, or to prevent the collection of taxes
in said city, was held to conflict with the rule of equality in
that suitors in all other cases were entitled to recover their
costs, the court saying, on page 471, that "it is obvious there
can be no certain remedy in the laws, where the legislature
may prescribe one rule for one suitor or class of suitors in
the courts, and another for all others under like circumstances, -or may discriminate between parties to the same suit,
giving one most unjust pecuniary advantage over the other.
Parties thus discriminated against would not obttin justice
freely; and without being obliged to purchase it. To the
extent of such discrimination they would be obliged to buy
justice and pay for it, thus making it a matter of purchase
to those who could afford to pay, contrary to the letter and
spirit of this provision." Janesville v Carpenter, 77 Wisconsin, 288, in which a statute authorizing suits for injunction to be maintained in favor of certain parties under
circumstanc s differing from those which obtained in respect to all other suits of a similar nature, was likewise
held to be void, as discriminating and class legislation, in

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FA' R'Y v. ELLIS.

165

Opinion of the Court.

violation of the spirit of the Constitution, and contrary to
public justice.
In State v Goodwill, 33 West Va. 179, the Supreme Court
of Appeals of West Virginia held unconstitutional a statute
which prohibited persons engaged in mining and manufacturing from issuing for the payment of labor any order or paper
except such as was specified in the act, and on the same day
in State v. Fire Creek Coal & Coke' Co., 33 West Va. 188, the
same court also set aside another statute which prohibited
persons and corporations engaged in mining and manufacturing, and interested in selling merchandise and supplies, from
selling any merchandise or supplies to their employes at a
greater per cent of profit *than they sell to others not employed by them. In Park v The Tree Press Co., 72 Michigan, 560, it was held that an act limiting the recovery in
suits brought for libel in certain cases to actual damages, as
defined in the act, was not within the scope of constitutional
legislation. In Pearson v. Portland, 69 Maine, 278, a statute,
which provided that no damages for injury to person or property caused by a -defect in the highway, could- be recovered
of any city or town by any person who, at tne time the damage was done, was a resident of any coun.try where, damage
done under similar circumstances was not by the laws of that
country recoverable, was held to conflict with the equality
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States
Constitution.
It must not be understood that by citing we endorse all
these decisions. Our purpose is rather to show the extent to
which the courts of the various States. have gone in enforcing
the constitutional obligation of equal protection. Other cases
of a similar character may be found in the reports, but a mere
accumulation of authorities is of little value. It is apparent
that the mere fact of classification is not sufficient to relieve a
statute from the reach of the equality clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and that in all cases it must appear not only that
a classification has been made, but also that it is one based
upon some reasonable ground -some difference which bears
a just and proper relation to the attempted classification-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Gray, J., Fuller, C.J., White, J.

and is not a mere arbitrary selection. 'Tested by these principles the statute in controversy cannot be sustained. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of Texasis, therefore,
Reversed, and the case ss remandedforfurttherproceeding*
not nconsistent with this opmton.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, with whom concurred MR. CHIEF JUSTICE
FULLER and MR.JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.

The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice White and myself are unable
to concur in this judgment. The grounds of our dissent may
be briefly stated.
Costs in civil actions at law are the creature of statute.
From early times, there have been statutes making different
rules as to costs, according to the nature of the issue, and the
amount involved and sometimes allowing costs to the prevailing party when plaintiff, and not when defendant. The
whole matter of costs, including the party to or against whom
they may be given, the items or sums to be allowed, and the
right to costs as depending upon the nature of the suit, upon
the amount or--value of-the thing sued for or recovered, or
upon other circumstances, is and always has been within the
regulation and control of the legislature, exercising its discretionary power, not oppressively to either party, but as the best
interests of the litigants and of the public may appear to it to
demand. Bac. Ab., Costs, passrmn, Postan v. Stanway, 5 East,
261, Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229, 2412, Kneass v Schuylkill
-Bank, 4 Wash. 0. C. 106, Lowe v Eansas,163 U. S. 81.
The statute of the State of Texas, now in question, does but
enact- that any person having a valid bona jide claim, not exceeding fifty dollars, against a railroad corporation, for personal services or damages, or for overcharges on freight, or
for destruction or injury of stock by its trains, and presenting
the claim, verified by his affidavit, to the corporation, and, if
it is not paid within thirty days, suing thereon in the proper
court, and finally obtaining judgment for the full amount
thereof in that court, or in any court to which the suit may
be appealed, shall be entitled to recover, in addition to otlher

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA F9 R'Y v. ELLIS.

167

Dissenting Opinion. Gray, J., Fuller, C.J., White, 5.

costs, a reasonable attorney's fee (if he has employed an attorney) not exceeding ten dollars, to be assessed and awarded by
the court or jury trying the issue. Texas Gen. Laws of 1889,
c. 107, p. 131, Sayles's Supplement, art 4266a, p. 768. In other
words, if an honest claim, of not more than fifty dollars, and
coming within one of those classes of small claims which most
commonly arise between individuals and railroad corporations,
is not promptly paid when presented under oath, and the claimant is thereby compelled to resort to a suit, the corporation, if
ultimately cast in the suit, must pay to the successful plaintiff
a very moderate attorney's fee, as part of the costs of the
litigation.
The legislature of a State must be presumed to have acted
from lawful motives, unless the contrary appears upon the
face of the statute. If, for instance, the legislature of Texas
was satisfied, from observation and experience, that railroad
corporations within the State were accustomed, beyond other
corporations or persons, to unconscionably resist the payment
of such petty claims, with the object of exhausting the patience
and the means of the claimants, by prolonged litigation and
perhaps repeated appeals, railroad corporations alone might
well be required, when ultimately defeated in a suit upon such
a claim, to pay a moderate attorney's fee, as a just, though
often inadequate, contribution to the expenses to which they
had put the plaintiff in establishing a rightful demand.
Whether such a state of things as above supposed did in fact
exist, and whether, for that or other reasons, sound policy
required the allowance of such a fee to either party, or to the
plaintiff only, were questions to be determined by the legislature, when dealing with the subject of costs, except in so far
as it saw fit to commit the matter to the decision of the
courts.
The constitutionality of statutes allowing plaintiffs only to
recover an attorney's fee, as part of the judgment, in particular classes of actions selected by the legislature, appears to
have been upheld by the courts of most of the States in which
it has been challenged. K ansas PaaiRe Railway y Mower, 16
Kansas, 573, 582 ,. Same v Tanz, 16 Kansas, 583 , Peoma &c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Railway v Duggan, 109 Illinois, 537, Vogel v Pek e, 157 Illinois, 339, Dow v Besdelman, 49 Arkansas, 455, Perkns v
S. Lous &c. Railway, 103 Missouri, 52, Burlington &c. Railway v Dey, 82 Iowa, 312, 340 lfortman v Elenschrmzdt, 12
Montana, 316, Gu~f, Colorado & Santa .F Railroadv Ellis,
87 Texas, 19, Cameron v Cl/wago &e.Railway, 63 Minn. 384.
It is to be regretted that so important a precedent, as this
case may afford, for interference by the national judiciary with
the legislation of the several States on little questions of costs,
should be established upon argument exv arte in behalf of the
railroad corporation, without any argument for the original
plaintiff. But it is hardly surprising that the owner of a
claim for fifty dollars only, having been compelled to follow
up, through all the courts of the State, the contest over this
ten" dollar fee, should at last have become discouraged, and
unwilling to undergo the expense of employing counsel to
maintain his rights before this court.

CLARKE v. MoDADE.1
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO,
No. 158.

CALIFORNIA.

Submitted January 13, 1897.-Decided January 25, 1897.

A general statement that the decision of a state court is against the consti"tutional rights of the objecting party, or against the Fourteenth Amendment, or that it is without due process of law,- particularly when these
objections appear only in specifications of error, so called, will not raise
a Federal question, even where the judgment is a final one within Rev.
Stat. § 709.

In these cases there was no final judgment, such as is provided for in Rev.
Stat. § 709, and there does not appear to have arisen any Federal question whatever.
I With this case were submitted Nd. 159, Clarke v. McDade, No. 165, Clarke
v. McDade, No. 160, Clarke v.Mott, and No. 161, Clarke v. Mott, all error
to the Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco. The opinion of this court is entitled in all the cases.

