WINONA &c. RAILROAD v. 'UNITED STATES.

483

Statement of the Case.

3h" Solicitor General for appellants in both cases.
Mr John R? Dillon (with whom were, Mr Harry Hubbard, Mr
John 3.1. Dillon and Mr T .F..Garver on his brief), for appellees
in No. 319..
Mr. Thomas Wilson for appellees in No. 322.

WINONA AND ST. PETER RAILROAD
v. UNITED STATES.

COMPANY

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CiROUIT.
No. 602. Submitted December 1, 1896.- Decided February 15, 189T,
Anterior to any claim-of right under its grant by the Winona and St. Peter
Railroad Company, by virtue either of filing its map of definite location
or of surveying and staking itsline upon the ground, a preEmption"filing
was placed upon the land. This filing was never cancelled. The claimant
entered Into posses!ion and'continued so either personally or through a
tenant until after the construction of the railroad, and until after the
railroad company had conveyed the land to a land company, and until an
action of ejeetment was brought by the land company. The court below
was of opinion, in which this court concurs, that the land company could
not be considered a purchaser in good faith from the railroad company
that it took its conveyance with notice, from possession, of all the rights
and the claims of the party so in possession, that it therefore did not
bring itself within the protecting clauses of the act of March 3, 1887
c. 376, 24 Stat. 556, and that there was nothing to stay the right of the
Government to have the certification, so erroneously issued, cancelled.
'This case distinguished from United States v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad
Company, ante, 463.

Tins was a -bill' filed by the United States in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
against. the Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company, the
Winona and St. Peter Land Company, and Thomas Marshall,
Jr. The suit was one to set aside the certification of a patent
made to the State of Minnesota for the benefit of the defendant railroad company of the northeast quarter of section 35,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

township 106 north, range IS west, which certification was of
date December, 1, 1862. After answers, proof and an agreed
statement as to certain facts, a decree was entered by the Circuit Court, August 29, 1894, dismissing the bill. On appeal
to the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit this decree
was, on May 6, 1895, reversed, 32 U S. App. 306, and the
case remanded with instructions to enter a decree granting
the relief prayed for.
It appears from the agreed statement that on July 3, 1857,
Thomas Marshall, Jr., one of the defendants, made a pregmption filing at the proper local land office of the land in controversy, which filing was prmafaeze regular and valid, and
was never cancelled on the records of the land office, the construction of the railroad of the defendant railroad company
was conceded, and it was agreed, that on the 1st of March,
1877. defendant Marshall, being still mn-possessmon and clauning to be the owner: thereof, the defendant land company,
which had a conveyance- from the railroad company, commenced an action of ejectment against him in the District
Court of Dodge Couity, Minnesota, that court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter; that Marshallappeared in such
action, and such proceedings were had that on the 9th day of
December, 1878, the court rendered judgment in favor of the
plaintiff for the possession of the land, that no appeal was
taken from such judgment, and that the same now remains
in full force and effect, and that in pursuance thereof said
Marshall surrendered possession to the defendant land company, and since that time the defendant land company has
remained in possession and paid the taxes, that Marshall,
on November 15, 1887, filed with the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, and now has pending before the land
department, an application for reinstatement of his rights to
said land, which application has not been acted upon, as it
is held by the said department that it has no jurisdiction to
pass thereon. Other facts are agreed to, such as are stated
in the opinion in the case No. 321 of the United States
against the same railroad company and others just decided.
-Ante,463.

WINONA &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

485

Opinion of the Court.

31r J A. Tawney for appellants. Mr Tawney and H'
IL A. )ambertorn filed a brief on behalf of the Winona and
St. Peter Land Company, appellant.
.Ar Solicitor General for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRwEE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The differences between this case and that -referred to in
the foregoing statement are these Anterior to any claim of
right by the railroad company, by virtue either of filing its
map of definite location or of surveying and staking upon the
ground its line, a preemption filing was placed upon the land
which was never cancelled. There remained, therefore, on the
records until after the certificatioti to the State a claim of a
right to preempt. The party making this claim continued in
possession by himself or tenant until not only- the construction of the railroad, but until after the conveyance by the
railroad company to the land company, and so remained in
possession until a suit of ejectment -was brought by- the land
company in 1877.
On the strength of these facts the Court of Appeals- was
of opinion that the land company could not be considered
one purchasing in good faith from the railroad company,
that it took its conveyance with notice, from possession, of
all the rights and claims of the party so in possession, and
therefore that it did not bring itself within the protecting
clauses of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 76. -24 Stat. 556, and
there was nothing to stay the right of the government to
have .this certification so erroneously issued-cancelled. With
that conclusion we concur. 'That the land was erroneously
certified is, under the prior decisions of this court;.not open
to question, and the acts of 1887 and 1896 have, as indicated
in the opinion in the prior case,, the purpose of -protecting
only that party whose purchase from the railroad company
must be considered one in good faith. It is .essential to the
-protection of -these statutes that the party purchasing from

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

the railroad company has no notice by any fact subsequent
to and independent of thp certification or patent of any
defect in title. Such a purchaser cannot claim to be one
in good faith if he has notice of facts outside the records
of the land department disclosing a prior right. The protection goes only t6 matters anterior to the certification and
patent. The statute was not intended to cut off the rights
of parties continuing after the certification, and of which
at the time of his purchase the purchaser had notice. Only
the purely technical claims of the government were waived.
Here the claimant Marshall was in possession, had- been
in possession for twenty years, .the land was not wild and
vacant land. His. possession was- under a reporded claim
of title, and under such a claim as forbade the issue. of a
patent. In other words, the land was erroneously certified.
There was, and continued-to be, an individual claimant for
the land. There was no cancellation on the .records -of the
land department of hs claim. He continued in possession,
and was m possession not only when the certification was
made but when the land company purchased. Its purchase,
therefore, was not one made in good faith, and there is nothing disclosed to stay the mandate of the statute for the adjustment of the land grant, and a suit to set aside the
certificate erroneously issued. The decree of the Court of
.Appeals is
_________A~jrmned.

'DUNLOP v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UtITED STATES FOR THB
NOiRTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLITOIS.,
No.472.

Argued December 21, iS96-.-Deided February 15, 1897.

There was io error in1 overrulibg the motion of the .defendant, made prior
tb the trial, to require the District Attorney to file the printed matter
allegedai'the indictment to be obscene, lewd, lascivious and indecent.
There was no error in the admission of the advertisements of proprietorship
ot the" Dispatch as it is difficult to see hoiw the identity of the pape,

