OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Tile JHaniVaoturzng Co. v. Hlyatt, 125 U. S. 46, and cases cited,
Wlood Mowng Machine Co. v Skinner, 139 U. S.'293, In rve
-Ingalls,Petitzoner, Id. 548, Marsh v. irohols, Shepard & Co.,
140 U. S. 344.
We are unable to discover in this case that plaintiff specially set up and claimed, at the proper time and in the proper
way, anyright under the laws of the United States, or that
any subh right was denied him by the decision of the state
courts. The controversy was in respect to the rescission of a
contract for the exchange of an invention for a stock of merchandise. The decree rested on grounds broad enough to sustain it without reference to any Federal question. Application
for letters-patent was pending when the contract was entered
into, and letters-patent were issued so that Wade obtained a
half interest therein as provided. The state courts held, for
the reasons given, that Wade got what he had bargained for,
and was not deceived or misled in the premises. Under these
circumstances the writ of error cannot be maintained. Rev.
Stat. § 709.
]Vit dismnissed.

NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN AND HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY -v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 12.

Argued January 4, 169T. -Decided

March 1, 169T.

The statutes of New York regulating the heating of steam passenger car.4,
and directing guards and guard-posts to be placed on railroad bridges
and trestles and the approaches thereto (Laws of 1887, c. 616, Laws of
1888, c. 189), were passed in the exercise of powers resting in the State
in the absence of action by Congress. and, when applied to interstate
commerce, do not violate the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.A.

John X. Bowers for plaintiff in error.

N. Y., N. H. AND H. RAILROAD v. NEW YORK.

629

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr Theodore E. Hancock, Attorney General of -the State
of New York, and lr IF E . Dennte for defendant in error.
MRh.

JusTicE

IxLrA&iA

delivered the opinion of the court.

A statute of New York passed June 18, 1887, regulating
'the heating of steam passenger cars and directing guards and
guard-posts to be placed on railroad bridges and trestles and
the approaches thereto, Laws of N. Y 1887, c. 616, p. 828,
provides "§ 1. It shall not be lawful for any steam railroad
doing business in this State, after the first day of May, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight, to heat its passenger cars, on
other than mixed trains, by any stove or furnace kept inside
of the car or suspended therefrom, except it may-be lawful,
in case of accident or other emergency, to temporarily use
such stove or furnace with necessary fuel. Provided, that in
cars which have been equipped with apparatus to heat by
steam, hot water or hot air from the locomotive, or from a
special car, the present stove may be ketained, to be used only
when the car is standing still. And provided also that this
act shall not apply to railroads less than fifty miles in length,
nor to the use of stoves, of a pattern and kind to be approved
by the railroad commissioners, for cooking purposes in diningroom cars. § 2. After November first, eighteen hundred and
eighty-seven, guard-posts shall be placed in the prolongation of
the line of bridge trusses so that in case of derailment the
posts and not the bridge trusses shall receive the blow of the
derailed locomotive or car. § 3. Any person or corporation
violating any of the provisions of this act shall be liable to
a penalty of one thousand dollars, and to the further penalty
of one hundred dollars for each and every day during which
such a violation shall continue. § 4. Upon the application of
any railroad covered by the provisions of this act, the board
of railroad commissioners may approve of any proposed safeguard or device to be used under the provisions of this act,
and thereafter the railroad using such safeguard or device so
approved shall not be liable to any of the penalties prescribed
by this act for a violation thereof in regard to any such safe.

OCTOBER TERMvf, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

guard or device. § 5. The violation of any of the provisions
of this act will be deemed a misdemeanor. § 6. This act
shall take effect immediately"
A subsequent statute, passed April 27, 1888, Laws of N. Y
1888, c. 189, p. 250, so amended the first section of the act of
1887 that the heating of passenger cars on other than mixed
trains by a stove or furnace kept inside the car or suspended
therefrom did not become unlawful until after November 1,

1888. The amendatory act further provided that in special
cases, the board of railroad commissioners could extend the
time for a period not exceeding one year from November 1,
1888; for any steam railroad doing business in New York to
heat its passenger cars by stoves or furnaces kept inside the
car or suspended therefrom.
The present action was brought to recover penalties imposed
frr the violation of the above statutes.
The complaint filed in behalf of the People of New York
eharged the defendant, the "New York, New Haven and
Hartford Railroad Company, a corporation of Connecticut,
with having, in the operation of its railroad, on the 2d day of
November, 1888, and on every subsequent day down to and
including December-31, 1888, run trains of passenger cars over
its route from the city of New York to HArtford and- from
.HIartford tothat city, and heated said cars, both on through
trains and over that part of its road in New York on other
than mixed trains, by stoves and furnaces kept within such
cars, "as the regular and usual method of heating sxid cars
and in cases other than those of accident and other emergency", and that the board of railroad commissioners of New
York had not extended the time of the defendant to heat its
passenger cars by any stove or furnace kept inside its cars.
There was a verdict and judgment against the railroad
company for the sum of $7000 and $179.81 costs, disbursements and allowance, in all, $7479.81. That judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals -of New York, 142 N. Y.
646.
It is contended that the above statute of New York is repugnant to section 8 of'Article I of the. Constitutionof the United

N. Y., N. H. AND H. RAILROAD v. NEW YORK.

631

Opinion of the Court.

States providing that Congress shall *have power to regulate
commerce among the several States, and to make all laws.
necessary and proper to carry such power into execution, and
also to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, declaring that no State shall deprive any one
of property without due process of law, nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
As these questions were properly raised in the state court,
there is no doubt of our jurisdiction to reexamine the final
judgment against the railroad company Rev. Stat. § V09.
According to numerous decisions of this court (some of
which are cited in the margini) sustaining the validity of
state regulations enacted under the police powers of the
State, and which incidentally affected commerce among the
States and with foreign nations, it was clearly competent for
the State of New York, in the absence of national legislation
covering the subject, to forbid under penalties the heating of
passenger cars in that State, by stoves or furnaces kept inside
the cars or suspended therefrom, although such cars may be employed in interstate commerce. While the laws of the States
must yield to acts of Congress passed in execution of 'the
powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, Gibbons v
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 211, the mere grant to Congress of the
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the States did not, of itself and without legislation by Congress, impair the authority of the States to establish such
reasonable regulations as were appropriate for the protection
of the health, the lives and the safety of their people. The
statute in question had for its object to protect all persons
travelling in the State of New York on passenger cars moved
by the agency of steam against the perils attending a particu'Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, 211,
~illson v. Blackbzrd Greek Marsh
Co., 2 Pet. 245; Cooley v. PhiladelphiaBoard of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 320;
Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 104,
Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678,
Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455, 46a, Huse v. Glover 119 U. S. 543,
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465 Nashville &c. Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S.
96, 100; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, 662; Hennzngton v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 17.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opmon of the Court.

lar mode of heating such cars. There may be reason to doubt
the efficacy of regulations of that kind. But that was a matter
for the State to determine. We know from the face of the
statute that it has a real, substantial, relation to an object as
to which the State is competent to legislate, namely, the personal security of those who are passengers on cars used within
its limits. Why may not regulations to that end be made
applicable, within a State, to the cars of railroad companies
engaged in interstate Commerce as well as to cars used wholly
within such State 2 Persons travelling on interstate trains are
as much entitled, while within a State, to the protection of
that State, as those who travel on domestic trains. The
statute in question is not directed against interstate commerce.
Nor is it within the meaning of the Constitution a regulation
of commerce, although it controls, in some degree, the conduct
of those engaged in such commerce. So far as it may affect
interstate commerce, it is to be regarded as legislation in aid
of commerce and enacted under the power remaining with
the State to regulate the relatve rights and duties of all persons and corporations within its limits. Until displaced by
such national legislation as Congress mdy r'ightfully establish
under its power to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States, the validity of the statute, so
far as the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States is concerned, cannot be questioned.
Counsel for the railroad suggests that a conflict between
state regulations in respect of the heating of passenger
cars used in interstate commerce would make safe and rapid
transportation impossible, that to stop an express train on
its trip from New York to Boston at the Connecticut line
in order that passengers may leave the cars heated as required by New York, and get into other cars heated in a
different mode in conformity with the laws of Connecticut,
and then at the Massachusetts line to get into cars heated
by still another mode as required by the laws of that Commonwealth, would be a hardship on travel that could not be
endured. Tphese possible inconveniences cannot affect the
qestmn of power in each State to make such reasonable

N. Y., N. H. AND H. RAILROAD v. -NEW YORK.

633

Opmion of the Court.

regulations for the safety-of, passengers on-interstate trains
as in its judgment,.all things considered, is appropriate and
iffective. Inconveniences of this character cannot be avoided
so long as each State has plenary authority within its territorial limits to provide for the safety of the public, according to its own views of necessity and public policy, and so
long as Congress deems it wise not to establish regulations
on the subject that would displace any inconsistent regulations of the States covering the same ground.
Our attention is called to the clause in the act of June 15,
1866, c. 124, 11 Stat. 66, now a part of section 5258 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, providing "that every
railroad company in the United States whose road is operated
by steam, its successors and assigns, be and is hereby authorized to carry upon and over its road, boats, bridges and ferries,
passengers, troops, government supplies, mails, freight and
property on their way from any State to another State, and to
receive compensation therefor and to connect with roads of
other States so as to form continuous lines for the transportation of the same to the place of destination." We fail to perceive that this statute has any bearing upon the question now
before the court. The authority conferred by it upon railroad companies engaged in commerce among the States, whatever may be the extent of such authority, does not interfere
in any degree with the passage by the States of laws having
for their object the personal security of passengers while
travelling, within their respective limits, from one State to
another on cars propelled by steam.
But it is contended that the statute is repugnant to the
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding a State
from denying to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws. This contention is based upon that
clause of the statute declaring that it shall not apply to railroads less than fifty miles in length. No doubt the main object of the statute was to provide for the safety of passengerstravelling on what are commonly called trunk or through lines,
connecting distant or populous parts of the country, and on
which the perils incident to travelling are greater than on

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

short, local lines.

But as suggested in argument, a road only

fifty miles in length would seldom have a sleeping car attached
to its trains, and passengers travelling on roads of that kind
do not have the apprehension ordinarily felt by passengers on
trains regularly carrying sleeping cars or having many passenger coaches, on account of the burning of cars in case
of their derailment or in case of collision. In any event,
there is no such discrimination against companies having
more than fifty miles of road as to justify the contention
that there has been a denial to the companies named in
the act of the equal protection of the laws. The statute is
uniform in its operation upon all railroad companies doing
business in the State of the class to which it is made applicable.
One of the assignments of error questions the validity of
the statute upon the ground that it deprives the plaintiff in
error of its property without due process of law As the
action against the company was instituted and conducted to
a conclusion under a valid statute, the defendant being before
the court, there is no reason to hold that there was any want
of the due process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
M . JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case or take any part
in its decision.

FOURTH STREET BANK (ofP/iladelphsa)v. YARDLEY
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 14.

Argued January 12,1, i89a. -Decided

March 1, 1S9T.

As between a check holder and the bank upon which such check is drawn,
it is settled that, unless the check be accepted by the bank, ad action
cannot be maintained by the holder against the bank.

