OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
SCOTT v. DONALD.
GARDNER v. DONALD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Nob. 411, 412, 413.

Argued October 21, 22, 196. -

Decided January 18, 1897.

Where'a suit is brought against defendants who claim to act as officers of
a State and under color of an unonstitutional statute commit acts of
wrong and injury to the property of the plaintif, to recover money or
property in their hands unlawfully taken by them in behalf of the State,
or for compensation for damages, such suit is not an action against the
State within the meaning of the E leventh Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States.
Although the question of the jurisdiction of the court below has not been
certified to this court in the manner provided by the fifth section of the
judiciary act of March 3, 1891, yet, as the case is before it in a case in
which the law of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Consti-tution of the United States under another clause of that statute it has
jurisdiction of the entire case and of all questions involved in it.
Damages are the compensation winch the law awards for an injury done;
and exemplary damages are allowable, in excess of the actual loss, where
a tort is aggravated by evil motive, actual malice, deliberate violence
or oppression.
The intentional, malicious and repeated interference by the defendants with
the exercise of personal rights and privileges secured to the plaintiffs by
the Constitution of the United States, as alleged in the complaint, constitutes a wrong and injury not the subject of compensation by a mere
money standard, but fairly within the doctrine of the cases wherein exemplary damages have been allowed, as those allegations of the complaints, though denied m the answers, have been sustained.
The statute of South Carolina of January 2, 1895, entitled "an act to further
declare the law in reference to, and further regulate the use, sale, consumption, transportation and disposition of alcoholic liquids or liquors
within the State of South Carolina, and to police the same," recognizes
liquors and wines as commodities which may be lawfully made, bought
and sold, and which must therefore be deemed to be the subject of foreign
and interstate commerce, and is an obstruction to and interference with
that commerce, and must, as to those of its provisions which affect the
plaintiffs, stand condemned.
'That statute is not an inspection law, and is not within the scape of the act
, August 8, 1890, c. 728.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Statement of the Case.
Whether those provisions of the act which direct that so-called contraband
liquors may be seized without warrant by any state constable, sheriff or
policeman, while in transit or after arrival, whether in possession of a
common carrier, depot agent, express agent or private person, and which
subject common carriers to fine and imprisonment for carrying liquors
in any package, cask, jug, box or other package, under any other than
the proper name or brand known to the trade, and which forbid the bringing of any suit for damages alleged to arise by seizing and detention of
liquors would be lawful In an inspection law otherwise valid, is not
decided.
So far as these actions are concerned, the damages recovered were for acts
committed under the alleged authority of the act of 1895, and cannot be
affected by the provisions of the subsequent act of 1896, even if the invalidities of the former act were thereby remedied - a matter on which no
opinion is expressed.

IN the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of South Carolina, in February, 1895, two suits at law were
brought by James Donald against J M. Scott,.and one by
Donald against Gardner etc., wherein plaintiff sought to recover damages caused by the action of the defendants, who
were state constables of the State of South Carolina, in seizing and carrying away several packages of wines and liquors
belonging to the plaintiffs, and, at the time of the seizure, in
the possession of railroad companies which-as common carriers
had brought the packages within the State.
It appeared that one of the packages, consisting of a case
of domestic California Wine, came by rail from Savannah,
Georgia, whither it had been imported by the plaintiff
another, consisting of a ca e of whiskey, in bottles, made in
Maryland, and imported by the plaintiff by way of the Baltimore Steam Packet line, and another, consisting of one
barrel of bottled beer, made at Rochester, New York, and
imported by the plaintiff into the State of South Carolina by
way of the Old Dominion Steamship line.
Demurrers to the several declarations or complaints were
interposed and overruled. Thereupon issues of fact were
joined, and, trial by jury having been duly waived, the causes
were tried and determined by the court, and resulted in findings and judgments in favor of the said plaintiff for the
s,17 L of three hundred dollars and costs in each case, respec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

tively Writs of error from this court were.then sued out and
allowed.
M11r THilliam A. Barber,Attorney General of the State of
Sbuth Carolina, for plaintiffs in error.
I. The plaintiffs in error, as state constables, were authorized by the act generally known as the dispensary law to
seize the liquors seized. See sections 43, 32, 29, 83, 1 and 25.
II. The dispensary act of South Carolina is the lawful
exercise of the police power of the State and is not in conflict
with Article 9 of the Constitution of the United States in so
far as it prohibits citizens of the State from importing within
the State alcoholic liquors for their own use and consumption.
The sole question is whether so much of -the dispensary law
of South Carolina as prohibits the importation of alcoholic
liquors from other States for personal use was enacted in the
legitimate exercise of the police power of the State, and, if
so, it is above the Constitution and acts of Congress, and no
Federal question is presented.
This leads to -the inquiry, What is the police power of a
State 2
This honorable court has said that the police power cannot
be accurately defined, and, without attempting a definition,
I would say it is that great attribute of sovereignty by which
a State is justified in its self-protection and self-preservation,
and if implies the use of the necessary means for the protection of the correlative and reciprocal rights of the sovereign
and the citizen. The present measure of the power of a sovereign State is the full measure of its rights before it joined
the federation, except in so far as the provisions of the Federal Constitution or its own people have modified it, We
know that the State gave up to the Union the right to regulate commerce, tax imports, declare war, proclaim peace, emit
bills of credit, coin.money and operate the post office. But it
gave up no. right based upon those fundamental principles not
laid down m the Federal Constitution, and which are necessary to the protection, of itself, necessary to the safety, com-

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

fort and well-being of society, and necessary to the protection
of its citizens against the evils of intemperance, pauperism and
crime. The polide power is among the reserved powers of the
State.
For the views of this court see N-ew York v. -Miln, 11 Pet.
102, Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U..S. 27, Stone v. _isszssP1 ,
108 U. S. 814, In re.l'ah'er,140 U. S.545, Crowley v Ch~rstensen, 137 U. S. 86, Slaughter House cases, 16 Wall. 36,
Bartemeyer v. iowa, 18.Wall. 129, Foster v Kansas,112 U. S.
201. In view of the principles laid down in these cases,
there can be no doubt that the dispensary act is a police measure. In Bartemeyer v. Iowa it was held that a state law prohibiting the manufacture and- sale of intoxicating liquors was
not repugnant to the, Constitution. In Foster v Zansas, this
doctrine was repeated.
In 1887, in the case of -owman v Chicago & Northwestern
Railway, 125 U. S.465, it was held that a law of Iowa forbidding the bringing into the State from other States of intoxicating liquors without a certificate, as therein required,
was a regulation of commerce -among the States, and was
void as being repugnant to the Constitution, such statute not
being an inspection law, or a quarantine law, or a sanitary
measure, and therefore not a legitimate exercise of the police
power of the State.
Then came the decision of Lemsy v. Hardin,135 U. S.100,
in which it was held that a party had the right under the
Interstate Commerce Acts to import intoxicating liquor into
the State, and the importer had the right to sell the imported
liquor in the State so long as it remained in the original
package.
This case induced the passage of the act of 1890.
In n re Rahrer, the constitutionality of that act was
assailed, but it was sustained by the court.
That act is the controlling act now, and by it Congress has
provided that upon the arrival of liquors within the State,
they become .subject to the police power of the State, to the
same extent and in the same manner as though such liquors
had been produced by the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.
N

While this act did not add to the police power of the State,
it did give expression to the will of Congress that a State
'could control intoxicating liquors as articles of commerce
upon their arrival in the State, no. matter where manufactured
or from where imported, and Congress thus relinquished any
power as to this article, which had been conferred by the
Constitution of. the United States, upon its arrival in such
State.
But it is contended in this case that the dispensary law is
in contravention of the Interstate Commerce Acts, because
it discriminates against products of other States and against
citizens of other States
1. In that it allows dispensaries to sell intoxicating liquor,
while citizens from other States are not allowed to send it
into the State for sale
2. In that ijt discrminates against intoxicating liquors, the
product of other States, by prohibiting their introduction into
the State for sale or use.
The act does authorize the sale of ales, wines and liquors
by the State, and does prohibit all citizens of this State, as
well as citizens of other States, from bringing them into the
State for sale or use.
The act does allQw the commissioner for the State to buy
liquors outside the State, and does prohibit other persons from
buying and bringing them into the State.
But we maintain that this is a legitimate exercise of the
police power, and does not in any way regulate commerce
between the States, and is not a discrimination against prodacts or citizens of other States. It places citizens and products
of this State on an equal- footing with those of other States.
Domestic liquors and foreign liquors are alike subject to the
provisions of the law While citizens of other States are forbidden to sell liquors within this State, the prohibition extends
to citizens of this State as well, and while a citizen is prohibited from importing liquor, he is likewise prohibited from
purchasing within the State any liquors not previously analyzed by the chemist and sold by the proper officers of the
State.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The act may remotely affect commerce, but it does not
interfere with or regulate it by discrimination or otherwise.
Welton v

M5issouri,

91 U. S. 275, Brown v. Houston, 114

U. S. 622, Walling v. .MicIigan,116 U. S. 446, -Mobile County
v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, Woodruff v Parham,8 Wall. 123,
Hfachine Co. v Gage, 100 U S. 676, Hinsom v. Lott, 8 Wall.
148, Bartemeyer v Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, -Beer Company v.
HAassaohusetts, 97

U. S. 25, Powell v Pennsylvania,127 U. S.

-678, Plumley v. -Massachusetts,155 U. S. 461, -S]7erlooe v
.Alling, 93 U. S. 99, lemsy v Tardin,135 U. S. 100, Pittsburg
" Southern Coal Co. v Loutszana, 156 U. S. 590 Pittsburg
& Soutliern Coal Co. v Bates, 156 U. S. 577, Hennington v
Georgia, 163 U S. 299, Vestern .Unzon Tel. Co. v James,
162 U. S. 650.
In the light of these cases, we submit that the dispensary
law is a legitimate exercise of the policq power.
We further spbmit
1. The law does not discriminate against liquors the products of other States, but makes the liquors produced in this
State, as well as those imported, subject to it.
Under the act of 1890, liquors imported from other States
upon 'their arrival become subject to the pQlice power, and if
liquors manufactured in the State are put upon the. same footing there is no discrimination against them on account of
their extra-state origin.
2. The law does not discriminate against the citizens of
other States. Citizens of this State are-put on an equality
with them. None of them can sell intoxicating liquors. It
is true the State sells, but none of her citizens can do so.
-3. The law does require. her citizens to buy from dispensaiies, but no citizen from other States is inhibited from
doing so.
There is no discrimination in the law against citizens or
products of other States, as such, and because they are citizens and products of other States, but the object is to protect
the public morals, public health and public safety It is not
the intention of the law to regulate interstate commerce, but
to protect the people of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Plaintiffs inError.

But it may be said that while the State. sells liquors.to her
own citizens she cannot prohibit the ntroduction. of liquors
from other States upon thie ground that they are deleterious
and for the purpose of protecting her citizens from fraud and
deception.
The provision in the act requiribg all liquors sold by the
dispensaries to undergo an analysis and tlhelr purity to be
certified sufficiently answers this objection.
Then we maintain *that the complainant is denied no right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution or laws
of the United States, and no Federal question arises in this
action. The simple averment in-the bill that a Federal question is presented is not sufficient. New Orleans v New
Orleans Mater Works, 142 U. S. 79, Hamblin v Western .and
Co., 14=7 U. S. 531.
The intention of the general assembly, as is evident from
Ghe general scope and detailed provisions of the dispensary
act, was to protect the public health, public morals and
public peace of the State, and not to burden or regulate interstate commerce. Some of the late cases indicate a modification by this court of views expressed in earlier cases Ss to
the extent to which state legislatures may enact police regulations. Changed conditions, industrial development and more
enlightened thought in this country have necessitated progressive exercise of the police power in the solution of social
and governmental problems. The dispensary act is an example of legislation in this direction. It is difficult to conceive
of any law enacted in exercise of the police power that does
not affect interstate commerce, and in every instance the question is, does it affect commerce to the extent of its regulation?
We repeat, the dispensary act is not directed against commerce or any of its regulations, but relates to the rights,
duties and liabilities of citizens, and only incidentally and
remotely affects the operations of commerce. Such laws have
uniformly been held valid, and upon this principle we seek to
uphold the act.
III. The executive officers of the State of South Carolina
are equally as anxious as the complainant herein to have the

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

legal issues raised in this cause finally adjudicated by this
honorable court. With a view to securing a final decision,
and feeling that it is just to the court as well as to parties
litigant that the present method ol operating the South Carolina dispensary should be fully understood; a suggestion has
been submitted calling the attention of the court to the recent
enactment of the general assembly of South Carolina relative
to the dispensary The dispensary system, as a solution of
the liquor question, is yet in its infancy, and the state legislature in passing the act of 1896 endeavored to perfect the
business details of the institution. At the same time the inspection feature of the law was materially changed. It is to
this alteration particularly that we invite attention, and respectfully ask that the court, if it deem proper, consider its
provisions in this respect as affecting the act approved January 2, 1895, and the order of injunction in this case. Without discussing in detail those features of the act, we submit
that, as an inspection law, it is subject to the following
principles
1. That the-States, in the exercise of the police power, may
pass inspection laws which are not in their express words or
operation a burden upon interstate commerce, by discriminat
ing against the products or citizens of other States, and which
operate equally upon products and citizens of the States themselves and citizens and products of other States. Robbm v.
S9helby Tacng .Dstrwit, 120 U. S. 489, Gibbon8 v Ogden,
9 Wheat. 123, Brown v .Ziaryland,12 Wheat. 419, TVotght
v. Mrzght, 141 U. S. 62, Crutcher v JRentucky, 111 U. S. 59.
Brzmmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, $mith v Alabama, 124
U. S. 465, Dent v West Virgsnza, 129 U. S. 114. Plumley
v. .Massachusetts,155 U. S. 472.
2. That the legislature is the judge of what is against the
public health, morals and safety of the State, and when in the
exercise of the police power it enacts a law declaring the use
of any article to be ugainst them, it will not conflict with the
ninth article of the Constitution of the United States when
it discriminates against the citizens and products of other
States. Railroad Co. v ilusen, 95 U. S. 465, Crowley v
VoL1 CLXV-5

OCTOBER TERMv,

1896.

opinion of the Court.

Mhrten8en, 137 U. S. 86, Plumley v. Masachusett8,155"U. S.
461.
3. That the State, in the exercise of -the police power, can

enact laws protecting the people from the consequences of
ignorance, incapacity, fraud, disease, poverty and crime.
Dent v "'est 17 rgznsa, 129 U. S. 114, Plumley v. .Masachu.8etts, 155 U. S. 461, Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313,
Bnmmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78.
.r eT P Kennedy Bryan -for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

SHmAs delivered the opinion of the court.

The records in these cases present the question of the validity, under the Constitution of the United States, of the act of
the general assembly of the State of South Carolina, approved
January 2, 1895, generally known as the state dispensary law,
and a copy of which is in the margin.'
'AN ACT to further declare the law in reference to, and further regulate
the use, sale, consumption, transportation and disposition of alcoholic
liquids or liquors within the State of South Carolina; and to police the
same.
SE TioN 1.. Be itenacted by the Senate and House of Bepresentativesof the
State of South Carolina,now met and sitting zn General Assembly, and by
the authority of the same, That the manufacture, sale, barter or exchange,
receipt, acceptance, delivery, storing and keeping in possession, within this
State, of any spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented, brewed (whether lager
or rice beer) or other liquors, or any compound or mixture thereof, by
whatever name called or known, which contains alcohol and is used as a
beverage by any.person, firm or corporation, the transportation, removal,
the taking from the depot or other place by consignee or other person, or
the payment of freight or express or other charges, by any person, firm,
association oricorporation, upon any spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented,
brewed (whether lager, rice or other beer) or other liquor, or any compound'or mixture thereof, by whatever name, called or known, which contains alcohol and is used as a beverage, except as is-hereinafter provided,
is hereby prohibited, under a penalty of not less than three (3) nor more
than twelve (12) months at hard labor in the state penitentiary, or pay a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars or both fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court, for each
offence. All such liquors, except when bought from a state officer author-

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

A preliminary question is raised by the proposition that
these arQ in fact suits against the State of South Carolina, and
forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment. This question is
ized to sell the same, or in possession of one, are declared to be contraband
and against the morals, good health and safety of the State, and may be
seized wherever found, without warrant, and turned over tq the state
commissioner.,
S~c. 2. The governor, the secretary of State and the comptroller general
shall ex officio constitute the state board of control to carry out the provisions of this act. The state board of control shall elect a clerk, who shall
hold his office during the pleasure of the board, and shall receive as compensation for his services a salary of eight hundred dollars per annum.
SEc. 3. That the state board of control shall, at the expiration of the
term of the present commissioner, and at the expiration of every two years
thereafter, appoint a commissioner, which appointent shall be submitted
to the senate at its next session for its approval, stud commissioner shall
be believed by the state board of control to be an abstainer from intoxicants, and shall, under such rules and regulations -as may be made by the
state board of control, purchase all intoxicating liquors for lawful sale in
this State, and furnish the same to such persons as may be designated as
dispensers thereof, to be sold as hereafter prescribed in this act. Said commissibner shall reside, and have his place of business, in the city of Columbia, In this State, and hold his office two years from his appointment and
until another be appointed in his stead. He shall be subject to removal for
cause by the state board of control. He shall qualify and be commissioned
the same as other state officers, and shall receive an annual salary of
twenty-five hundred dollars, payable at the same time and in the same
manner as Is provided for the payment of the salaries of state officers.
He shall be allowed a book-keeper, who shall be laid in the same manner
-a salary of twelve hundred dollars; and such other assistants as in the
opinion of the board of control may be deemed necessary. He shal. not
sell to the county dispensers any intoxicating or fermented liquors except
suph -t have been tested'by the chemist of the South Carolina collegd and
dec %redto be pure: Provided, That said board of control shall have authorIty to appoint such assistants as they may find necessary to assist the chemIst of the South Carolina college in making the analyses required by this
act; and the said board of control may fix such reasonable compensation, if
any, as they may deem proper for the services rendered by such chemist or
such assistants. The state commissioner shall deposit all amounts received
by him from sales to county dispensers or others with the treasurer of the
State under such rules as may be made by the state board of control to insure the faithful return of the same, and the state treasurer shall keep a
separate account with said fund, from which the commissioner shall draw
from time to time, upon warrants duly approved by the chairman of Said
board, the amount necessary to pay the expenses incurred in conducting

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficiently disposed of by referring to the late case of I r
Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, where the conclusion of numerous previous cases was stated to be that where a suit is brought
the business. All rules and regulations governing the said commissioner in
the purchase of intoxicating liquors or in the performance of any of the
duties of his office, where the same are not provided for by law, shall be
prescribed by the state board of control. He shall, before entering upon
the duties of his office, execute a bond to the state treasurer, with sufficient.
sureties, to be approved by the attorney general, in the penal sum of twentyfive thousand dollars, for the faithful performance of the duties of his
office. In all purchases or sales of intoxicating liquors made by said commissioner, as contemplated in this act, the commissioner shall cause a certificate to be attached to each'and every package containing said liquors
when the same is shipped to him from the place of purchase or by him to
the county dispensaries, certified by his official signature and seal, which
certificate shall state that liquors contained in said packages have been purchased bv him for sale wifbin the State of South Carolina, or to be shipped
out of the State, under the laws 'of said State; and without such certificate
any package containing liquors which shall be shipped out of the State, or
shipped from place to place within the State, or delivered to the consignee
by any railroad, express company or other common carriers, or be found'
in the possession of any common carrier, shall-be regarded as contraband
and may be seized without warrant for confiscation, and such common
carrier shall be liable to a penalty of five. hundred dollars for each uffence,
to be recovered against said common chrrier in -any court of competent
3urisdiction by summons.and complaint, proceedings to be instituted by the
solicitor of any circuit with whom evidence may be'lodged by any officer
or citizen having knowledge or information of the violation; and any person attaching or using such certificate without the authority of the commissioner, or any counterfeit certificate for the purpose of securing the
transportation of any intoxicating liquors out of .or within this State, in
violation of law, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of
not less than five hundred dollars and imprisonment iq the penitentiary for
not less than one year for each offence.
Sxc. 4. Said commissioner shall make a printed monthly statement,
under oath, of all liquors sold by hum, enumerating the different kinds and
quality of each kind, the price paid, and the terms of payment and to whom
sold; also the names of the parties from whom the liquor was purchased
and their places of business and- dates of purchase, which statement shall
be filed with-the state board of control.
Sic. 5. The state commissioner shall, before shipping any liquors to
dispensers, except lager beer, cause the same to be put into packages of
not less than one half pint nor more than five gallons, and securely seal the
same, and it shall be unlawful for the dispenser to break any of such packages or open -the same for any reason whatsoever. He shall sell by the

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

against defendants who claim to act as officers of a State, an,under color of an unconstitutional statute, commit acts of
wrong and injury to the property of the plaintiff, to recover
package only, and no person shall open the same on the premises. Provided,
This section shall not apply to malt liquors shipped in cases or bottles
thereof shipped in barrels; and such malt liquors may be sold by the county
,dispenser in such quantities, of not less than one pint, as he may see properProvided, The same shall not be drunk on the premises: ])ispensers- ghall
,open their places of business and sell only in the daytime, under such rules
as may be made by the state board of control, or by the county board of
control with approval of the state board of control.
SEC. 6. It shall be the duty of the state board* of control to appoint a
-county board of control, composed of the county supervisor ex officto and
-two other persons believed by the said board not to be addicted to the use
-of intoxicating liquors. The two persons so appointed shall hold their
-office for a term of two years, and until their successors are appointed, and
shall be subject to removal for cause byfhe state board of control. Said
-county board of control shall make such rules as will be conducive to the
best management of the sale of intoxicating liquors in their respective
'counties: Provided, All such rules shall be submitted to the state board and
approved by them before adoption. The members of the county board of
-control shall qualify and be commissioned as are other county officers,
-without fees therefor.
Snc. 7. Applications for positions of county dispenser shall be by petition, signed and sworn to by the applicant, and filed with the county board
of control at least ten days before the meeting at which the application is
to be considered, which petition shall state the applicant's name, place of
residence, 'in what business engaged, and in what business he has lseen
engaged two years previous to filing petition; that he is a citizen of the
United States and of South Carolina, that he has never been adjudged
guilty of violating the law relating to intoxicating liquors, and is not a
keeper of a restaurant or place of public amusement, and that he is not
addidted to the use of intoxicating liquors as-a beverage. This permit or
renewal thereof shall issue only on condition that the applicant shall execute
to the county treasurer a bond in the penal sum of three thousand dollars,
with good and sufficient sureties, conditioned that he will well and truly
obey the laws of the State of South Carolina, now or hereafter in force, in
relation to the sale of intoxicating liquors, that he will pay all fines, penalties, damages and costs.that may be assessed, or recorded against him,
for violations of such laws during the term for which said permit or renewal is granted, and will not sell intoxicating liquors under his permit at
a price other than that fixed by state board of control. Said bond shall be
for the use of the cointy or any person or persons who may be damaged or
injured by reason of any violation on the part of the obligor of the law
relating to intoxicating liquors plurchased, or sold during the term for

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

money or property in their hands unlawfully taken by them
-in behalf of the State, or for compensation for damages, such
suit is not, within the meaning of the amendment, an action
against the State.
which said -permit, or the renewal thereof, is granted. The said bond shall
.be deposited with the county treasurer, and suit thereon shall be brought
at any time by the solicitor or any person f6r whose benefit the same Is
gtven, and in case the conditions thereof, or any of them, shall be violated,
the principal and sureties thereon shall also be jointly and severally liable
for all civil damages, costs and judgments that may be obtained against the
principal in any civil action brought by wife, child, parent, guardian, employer or other person under the provision- of the law. All other moneys
collected for lreaches of such bondshall go into the county treasury. Said
bond shall be approved by the county board of control under the rules and
laws applicable to the approval of the official bonds.
SEc. 8. There may be one or more county dispensers appointed for
each county, the place of business of each of whom shall be designated
by the county board, but the state board must give consent before more
than one dispenser can be appointed in any county; and when the county
board designates a locality for a dispensary, ten. days' public notice of
which shall be given, it shall be- competent for a majority of the voters
of the township in which such dispensary is to be located to prevent its
Idcation in such township by signing a petition or petitions, addressed to
the county board, requesting that no dispensary be established In that
township, whereupon some other place may be designated. The county
noard may in its discretion locate a dispensary elsewlhere than In an
incorporated town in the counties of Beaufort and Horry and no others,
except such as are authorized by special act of the general assembly.
Provided, however, That any county, town or city wherein the sale of
alcoholic liquors was prohibited by law prior to July 1, 1893, may secure
the dstablishment of a 'dispensary within its borders in the following
manner- JUpon petition signed by one fourth of the qualified voters of
such county, town or city wishing a- dispensary therein being filed with
the county supervisor -or town or city council, respectively, they shall
order an election submitting the question of dispensary or no dispensary
to the qu-alified-voters of such county, town or city, and shall prescribe the
rules, regulations, returns, ballots-and- notite- of -such election and shall
declare the result; and -if a majority of the ballots cast be found and
declared to be for a dispensary; then a dispensary may be established In
said county, town or city Provided, Tjiat dispensaries may be established
in the counties of Williamsburg, Pickens and Marion and at Seneca and
other towns now incorporated in Oconee County without such election on
-compliance with the other requirements of this act: Provided, That nothing
in this act contained shall be so construed as to prohibit persons resident in
counties which shall elect to have no dispensary from procuring liquors

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

It is also argued that the amounts involved in the respective suits were not sufficent to give 3urisdiction to the Circuit
Court. Although the question of the jurisdiction of the court
below has not been certified to us in the manner provided by
from dispensaries in other counties, or county dispensers from shipping
same to their places of residence under proper labels or certificates
.Provided, .further, That nothing in this act shall be- construed to repeal
an act entitled "An act to allow the opening of dispensaries in Pickens
and Oconee Counties," approved December 18. 1894.
Szc. 9. If the application for the position of dispenser be granted, it
shall not issue until the applicant shall make and subscribe on oath, before
some officer authorized by law to administer oaths, which shall be endorsed
upon the bond, to the effect and tenor following "I, , do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will well and truly perform all and singular the condition of the within bond, and keep and perform the trusts confided in me
to purchase, keep and sell intoxicating liquors. I will not sell, give or
furnish to any person any intoxicating liquors otherwise than is provided
by law, and especially I will not sell or.furnish intoxicating liquors to any
minor, intoxicated person or persons who are an the habit -of -becoming
intoxicated, and I will make true, full and accurate returns to the county
board of control on the first Monday of each month of all certificates and
requests made to or received by me, as required by law, during the preceding month; and such returns shall show every sale and delivery of such
liquors made by me or for me'during the month embraced therein, and the
true signature to every request received and granted, and such returns
shall show all the liquors sold or delivered to any and every person as
returned." Upon taking said oath and filing bond as hereinbefore provided,
the county board of control shall issue to him a permit authorizing him to
keep and sell intoxicating liquors as in this act provided, and every permitso granted shall specify the building, giving the street and number or location, in which intoxicating liquors may be sold by virtue of the same, and
the length of time in which the same shall be in force, which in no case
shall exceed twelve months. Permits granted under this act shall be
deemed trusts reposed in the recipients thereof, not as a matter of right,
but of confidence, and may be revoked upon sufficient showing by order of
the county board of control, and upol the removal of any county dispenser, or upon demand of the county board of control, he shall immediately turn over to the county board of control all liquors and other property
in his possession belonging to the State or county. Said county board of
control shall be charged with the duty of prosecuting the county dispenser
or any of his employ~s who may violate any of the provisions of this act.
On the death, resignation or removal of a county dispenser or-expiration
of his term of office, the county board shall appoint his successor.
Sac. 10. The county board of control shall use as their office the office
of the county supervisor of their county, and shall elect one of their num-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opimon of the Court.

the fifth section of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891, yet, as
the case is before us, in a case in which the law of a State is
claimed to be in contravention of the ,Constitution of the
ber as chairman and another as clerk of the said county board of control.
The county board shall pre$erve as a part of the records and files of their
office all petitions, bonds and other papers pertaining to the granting or
revocation of permits,.ad keep suitable books. in which bonds and permits
shall be recorded. The books shall be furnished by the county like other
public records. The county board of control shall .designate or provide a
suitable place in which to sell the liquors. The members of the county board
of control shall meet once a month or oftener, on the call of the chairman,
and each member. of the board shall receive a per diem of two dollars and
five cenits mileage each way, but they shall not receive compensation for
more than thirty days in any one year except In the county of Charleston,
where they shall not receive compensation for more than sixty days In any
one year, and in Barnwell County not more than fifty days in any one
year. They shall, upon the approval of the state board of control, eilploy
subhassistans for the county dispenser as may be necessary. The dispenser
and .his assistants shall receive such compensation as the state board of
control may determine. All profits, after paying all expenses of the county
dispensary, shall be paid, one half to the county tf'easury and one half to
the municipal c6rporltion in which it may be located, such settlements to
be made quarterly Provided, That if the authorities of any town or city,
in the judgment of the state board of control, do not enforce this law, the
state board may withhold the part going to the said town or city and use It
to pay state constables or else turn it into the county. treasury. All moneys
received by the county dispenser belonging to the State shall be forwar4ed
dn Monday of each Veek to the state commissioner, and at the same time
the county dispenser shall forward to the state board of control a duplicate,
statement of the remittance so made to the state commissioner. On-the
same day of each week-the county dispenser shall deposit with the county
.treasurer.the portion of all the moneys received by him belonging to the
county and to the municipal authorities in which the dispensary Is located.
The county treasurer shall give' his receipt therefor and hold the same
until the quarterly settlement .hereinbefore provided- for is had. The
quarterly settlement herein provided for shall be made on the fourth Monday in the months of December, March, June and September in each year.
Such settlement shall be made in the presence of the county auditor, who
shall make a memorandum of the items thereof, and 'forward the same to
'the state board of cohtrol. The mayor or intendant of the city or town in
which the dispensaryis located shall also attend such settlement: Provided;
That in countieswhere dispensaries other than incorporated cities or towns,
the county shall get all profits .that would otherwise go to such cities and
towns,
SEc. 11. Before selling or delivering any intoxicating liquors to anY"

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, under another clause of that statute, we have
jurisdiction of the entire case and of all questions involved in
it. Hforner v. United States, 143 U. S. 570, Carey v. Houston
person, a request must be presented to the county dispenser, printed or
written in ink, dated of the true date, stating that he or she is of age and
the residence of the signer, for whom or whose use it is required, the
quantity and kind required, and his or her true name, and the request shall
be signed by the applicant in his own true name and signature, attested by
the county dispenser or his clerk who -receives and files the request. But
the request shall be refused if the county dispenser filling it personally
knows the person applying is a minor, that he is intoxicated, or that he is
in the habit of using intoxicating liquors to an excess; or if the applicant
Is not so personally known to said coilnty dispenser, before filing said order
or delivering said liquor, he shall require the statement of a reliable and
trustworthy person of good character and habits, known personally to him,
that the applicant is not a minor, and is not in the habit of using intoxicating liquors to excess.
Szc. 12. Requests for purchase of liquor shall be made upon blanks furnished by the county auditor, in packages of one hundred each, to the county
dispensers, from time to time as the same shall be needed, and .shall be
numbered consecutively by the auditor. The blanks aforesaid shall be lfurnished to the county auditor by the state board of control, in uniform books,
like bank checks, and the date of delivery shall be endorsed by the- county

auditor on each book and receipt taken therefor and preserved in his office.
Tho dispenser shall preserve the application in the original form and book,
except the filing of the blanks therein, until returned to the county auditor.
When return thereof Is made the county auditor shall endorse thereon thedate of return, and file and preserve the same, to be used in the quarterly
settlements between such dispenser and the county treasurer. Al'ufuused
or mutilated blanks.shall be returned or accounted for. before other blanks
are issued to such county dispenser.
SEC. 13. On or before the tenth day of each month each dispenser shall
make full returns to the county auditors of all requests filed by him and
his clerks during the preceding month upon blanks to be furnished by the
state board of control for that purpose, and accompany the same with an
oath, duly taken and subscribed before the county auditor or notary public,
which shall be in the following form, to wit: "I,--,being
duly
sworn, state on oath that the requests for liquors herewith returned are all
that were received and filled at my place of business under my permit during the month of -,
189-; that I have carefully preserved the same,
and that they were filled up, signed and attested at the date shown thereon,
as-provided by law; that said requests were filled by delivering the quantity
and kind of liquors required, and that no liquors have been sold.or dispensed under my permit during said month except as shown by the requests
herewith returned; and that I have faithfully observed and complied with

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

c. Texaz Central Railway, 150 U. S. 170, 181, Ckappell v.
Unlited States, 160 U. S. 499.

Our inspection of these records does not satisfy us that this
objection is well founded. The declaration- or complaint
the provisions of my bond and oath taken by me, thereon endorsed, and
with all the laws relating to my duties ii the premises."
S.c. 14. Upon failure of any dispenser to make returns to the auditor
as herein required, it shall be the duty of said auditor to report such failure
to the state.board of control, and the said state board of control shall
immediately order the county board to summon said delinquent dispenser
to appear before them and show cause why his permit should not be
revoked, and if the cause shall not be shown to the satisfaction of the
county board-of control, they shall immediately annul said permit and give
public notice thereof and the circuit solicitor shall proceed to enforce the
penalties prescribed in this act for such violation against said county dispenser at the next succeeding term of court in the county in which such
permit is held; and any dispenser who shall sell or dispose of anu intoxicating liquors after his permit shall have been revoked shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than five hundred (500) dollars and be imprisoned
for six months. If any dispenser or his clerk shall purchase any intoxicating
-liquors from any other person except the state commissioner, or If he, or
they, or any person or persons in his or their employ, or by his or their direction, shall sell or offer for sale any liquors other than such as have been
purchased from the state commissioner, or shall adulterate, or cause to be
adulterated, any intoxicating, spirituous or malt liquors which he or they
may keep for sale under this act, by mixing with same coloring matter or
any drug or ingredient whatever, or shall mix the same with other liquors of
different kind or quality, or with water, or shall sell or expose for sale such
liquors so adulterated, knowing it to be such, or shall change the label upon
any box, bottle or package, he or they shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
be fined in a sum of not less than two hundred dollars or imprisonment for
not less than six months. If any county dispenser shall misappropriate,
misuse or otherwise wrongfully dispose of any moneys or other property
belonging to the State, county, .or municipality, he shall, upon conviction,
be punished as in case of breach of trust with fraudulent intent.
SEc. 15. No p fson, firm, association or corporation Shall manufacture
for sale, or keep =Iqr sale, exchange, barter or dispense any liquors coiitalnlug alcohol, for any purpose whatsoever, otherwise than is provided In this
act. Any person, firm, association or corporation desiring or intending to
manufacture or distill any.liquors containing alcohol within this State shall
first obtain from. the state.board of control a permit or license so to do, and
it shall-be unlawful for any such person, firm, association or corporation to
manufacture-or distill any liquors containing alcohol within this State without having such permit or license. Any violations of the terms of the
permit or license shall authorize and warrant the seizure of the product on

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

alleges in each case that the plaintiff has been injured and
damaged in the sum of six thousand dollars and demands
judgment for that amount. It is urged that, as the value of
the goods and chattels taken was alleged and shown to be but
hand at any distillery or place where liquors containing alcohol are manufactured. Provided, The United States has no lien or claim upon the same.
And in the application for a permit or license to manufacture liquors containing alcohol, the applicant shall give the State full power, upon any
vJ.latlon of this act, to seize and take possession of any product on hand
a the distillery or place where such applicant shall manufacture such
liluors, and shall authorize the State to pay the United States government
tx upon. the same if unpaid, and to dispose thereof as provided herein for
.traband goods. Dispensers asherein provided shall alone be authorized
to sell and dispense liquors containing alcohol, and all permits must be
procured by such dispensers as herein provided from the county board of
control. Provided, That the manufacturers of distilled, malt or vinous
liquors who are doing business in the State shall be allowed to sell to no
person In this State except the state commissioner and to parties outside
the State, and the state commissioner shall purchase his supplies from the
brewers and distillers in this State when their product reaches the. standard
required by this act: Provided, Such supplies cail be purchased as cheaply
from such brewers and distillers in this State as elsewhere: And provided
further, That the state commissioner shall have the right, and he is hereby
empowered, to purchase malt liquors from,breweries of this State, and also
from breweries outside of this State, who may have agents representing
them in this State. Every package, barrel or bottle of such liquor shipped
beyond the limits of this State shall'have thereon the cerjificate of the
state commissioner allowing same, otherwise it shall be liable to confiscation, and the railroad carrying it shall be punished as in section three: An&
provided, That any person shall have the right to make wine for his or her
own use from grapes or other fruits. The inspector uppojnted by the state
board of control, as herein provided, shall have the right to enter and -examine, at any and all times not forbidden by the United States lAws, any
distillery, brewery or place where liquors containing alcohol are manufactured within this State. Any. manufacturer, distiller or brewer who may
refuse to allow the inspector to enter and examine his place of business
and its appurtenances at such times as the inspector may deem proper shall
forfeit his permit or license.
Sc. 16. Every dispenser shall keep P_strict account of all liquors received. by him from the state commissioner in a book kept for that purpose, which shall be subject at all times 'to the inspection of the crrcuit
solicitor, any peace officer or grand juror of the county, or of any other
citizen, and such book shall show the amount and kind of liquors procured,
the date of receipt and amount sold, and the amount on hand of. each kind
for each month. Such book shall be .produced by the party keeping the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

comparattvely a few dollars, and as the recovery in each case
was only in the sum of three hundred dollars, we are obliged
to infer that the damages alleged and demanded were without
same, to be used as evidence on trial of any prosecution against him on
notice duly served that the same will be required as evidence.
SEc. 17. The payment of the United States special tax as a liquor seller,
or notice of any kind in any place of resort, or in any store or shop indlcating that alcoholic liquors are there sold, kept or given away, shall be held
to be p.rzna fadze evidence that the person or persons paying said tax and
the parties displaying such notices are acting in violation of this act; and unless said person or parties are selling underpermit as prescribed by this act
they shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars nor
more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for a term of not less than
three months nor more than twelve months. Conviction in the United States
courts of illicit sales of liquor shall be taken asprimafaceevidence of violation of the provisions of this act, and any distiller or manufacturer of liquors
containing alcohol so convicted in the United States courts shall, by reason
of such conviction, forfeit the permit or license granted him by the state
board of control in addition to the other penalties herein provided.
Sxc. 18. Licensed druggists conducting drug stores and manufacturers
of proprietary medicines are hereby authorized to purchase of dispensers
of the counties of their residence ifitoxicating liquors (not including malt)
for the purpose of compounding medicines, tinctures and extracts that
cannot be used as a beverage.\ The dispensers shall not charge such
licensed druggists more than ten per cent net profit for liquors so sold.
Such purchaser shall keep a record of the uses to which the same are devoted, giving the kind and quantity so used, and quarterly they shall make
and file with the county auditor and with the county board of 'ontrol sworn
reports, giving a full and true statement of the quantity and kinds of such
liquors purchased and used, the uses to which the same have been devoted,
and giving the name of the dispenser from whom the same was purchased,
and-the dates 'and quantities so purchased, together with an invoice of each
kind still in stock and kept for such compoundings. If said licensed druggist shall sell, barter, give awar.or exchange or in any manner dispose of
said liquors for any purpose other than authorized by this section, he shall
upon conviction forfeit his license and be liablk to all penalties, prosecutions and proceedings at law and in equity provided against persons selling
without permit, and upon such conviction the clerk of the court shall,
within ten days after such judgment or order, transmit to the board of
pharmaceutical examiners the certified record thereof, upon receipt of
which the said board shall strike the name of the said druggist from the
list of pharmacists and revoke his certificate: Provided, That nothing herein
contained shall be construed to authorize the manufacture or sale of any
preparation or compound, under any name, form or device, which may be
used as a beverage which is intoxicating in its character - And provided

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

just foundation, and in the nature of a fraud upon the jurisdiction of the court.
The declarations contain allegations which, if true, bring
further, That the state commissioner shall be authorized to sell to manufacturlng chemists and wholesale druggists alcohol by the barrel at cost.
SEc. 19. If any person shall make anyfalse or fictitious signature or sign
any name other than his or her own to any paper required to be signed by
this act, without being authorized so to do, or make any false statement in
any paper, request or application signed to procure liquors under this act,
the person so offending shall be guilty of a iiisdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than twenty-five
dollars, or be imprisoned not more than thirty days.
Sac. 20. If any dispenser, or his clerk, shall make false oath touching
any matter required to be sworn to under the provisions of this act, the
person so offending shall, upon conviction, be punished as provled by law
for perjury. If any county dispenser shall purchase or procure any intoxicating liquors from other person than the state commissioner, or make
any false return to the county auditor, or use any request for liquors for
more than one sale, in any such case he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, be punished by a fine of five hundred dollars
or six mouths' imprisonment.
SFc. 21. Every person who shall directly or indirectly keep or maintain
by himself, or by associating or combining with others, or who shall in any
manner aid, assist or abet in keeping or maintaining any club room or other
place in which any intoxicating liquors are received or kept for use, barter
or sale as a beverage, or for distribution or division among the members
of any club or association by any means whatever, and every person who
shall receive, barter, sell, assist or abet another in receiving, bartering or
selling, any alcoholic liquors so received or kept, shall be deemed guilty of.
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars nor more thai five hundred dollars, or by
imprisonment for a term of not less than three months nor more than
twelve months Provided, That the state board of control shall have the
power, upon a proper showing and under such rules as they may adopt, to
exempt hotels where tourists or health seekers resort from being considered
nuisances or as violating this act by reason of any manager of such hotels
dispensing liquors bought from the dispensary, by the bottle, either night.
or day, but before any such exemption shall be granted the state board of
control shall require the manager of such hotel to give a good aid sufficient
bond, in the penal sum of three thousand dollars, conditioned for the observance of all the rules, regulations and restrictions prescribed and imposed by the said board and with all the requirements of this act, and it
shall be lawful for any constable or officer thus employed under this act to
enter such hotel and search it at auv time, day or night, without a~warrant,
for contraband liquors.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the cases within the well-settled doctrine that exemplary damages may in certain cases be assessed. After alleging that the
plaintiff, in importing for his own use the articles menSac. 22. All places where alcoholic liquors are sold, bartered or given
away in violation of this act, or where persons are permitted-to resort for
the purpose of drinking alcoholic liquors as a beverage, or where alcoholic
liquors are kept for sale, barter or delivery in violati~n of this act, are
hereby declared to be common nuisances, and any person may go before
any trial justice in the county and swear out an arrest warrant on personal
knowledge or on information and belief, charging said nuisance, giving the
names of witnesses against the keeper or manager of such place and his
aids and assistants, if any, and such trial justice shall direct such arrest
warrant either to the sheriff of the county or to any special constable, commanding said defendant to be arrested and brought before him to be dealt
with according to law, and at the same time shall issue a search warrant In
which the premises in question shall be particularly described, commanding
such sheriff or constable to thoroughly search the premises in question and
to seize all alcoholic liquors found thereon, and dispose of them as provided
in section 33, and to seize all vessels, bar fixtures, screens, bottles, glasses
and appurtenances apparently used or suitable for use in retailing liquors,
to make a complete inventory thereof, and deposit the same with the sheriff.
That under the arrest warrant the defendant shall be arrested and brought
before such trial justice, and the case shall be disposed of as in case of
other crimes beyond his jurisdiction, except that when he commits or binds
oyer the parties for trial to the next term of court of general sessions for
the county, he shall make out every paper in the case in duplicate and file
one with the clerk of the court for the county, and immediately transmit
the other to the solicitor of the circuit, whereupon said solicitor shall at
once apply to the circuit judge at chambers within that circuit for an order
restraining the defendants, their servants or agents, from keeping, receiving,'bartering, selling or giving away any alcoholic liquors until the further
order of the coupt. Such circuit judge is hereby authorized, empowered
and required to grant the said restraining order without requiring a bond
or undertaking upon the hearing or receipt by him of said papers from the
,court of the said trial justice by the hands of the solicitor; and any violation of said restraining order before the trialof the case shall be deemed a
contempt of court and punished as such by said judge or court, or any other
circuit judge, as for the violation-of an order of injunction. Upon convic"tion of said defendants of maintaining said nuisance at the trial, they or
any of ther shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by Imprisonment in the state penitentiary for.a term of not less than three months,
or a fine of not less than two hundred dollars, or by both, in the discretion
of tbe court, and the restraining order shall be made perpetual. The articlesf covered by the inventory, which were retained by the sheriff, shall be
forfeited tothe State and sold and- the net proceeds sent to the state corn-

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

tioned, were in the exercise of his legal rights guaranteed
by the Constitution of the United States, it is averred, in the
several declarations, that the defendants were notified that
missioner, and the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to dispose of the alcoholic
liquors covered by said inventory s provided ior in this act as when other
liquors are seized. The finding of such alcoholic liquors on such premises,
with satisfactory evidence that the same was being disposed of contrary
to this act, shall be pronafacie evidence of the nuisance complained of.
Liquors seized as hereinbefore-provided, and the vesgeIs containing them,
shall not be taken from the custody of the officers in possession of the
same by any writ of replevin or other process while the proceedings herein
provided. are pending. No suit shall lie for damages alleged to arise by
seizure and detention of liquors under this act. Any person violating the
terms of any restraining order granted in such proceedings shall be punished for contempt by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars nor more
than one thousand dollars, and by imprisonment in the state penitentiary
not less than limety days nor more than one year. In contempt proceedings arising out of the violation of any injunction granted under the provisions of this act, the court, or, in vacation, the judge thereof, shall have
power to try summarily and punish the party or parties guilty, as required
by law. The affidavits upon which the attachment for contempt issues
shall make aprma.facie case for the State. The accused may plead in the
same manner as to an indictment in so far as the same is applicable. Evidence may be oral or in the form of affidavits, or both. The defendant shall
not necessarily be discharged upon his denial of the fact stated in the moving papers. The clerk of the court shall, upon the application of either
party, issue subpconas for witnesses, and except as above set forth the
practice in such contempt proceedings shall conform .as nearly as may to
the practice in the Court of Common -Pleas. That when any solicitor neglects or refuses to perform any duty or to take any steps required of him
by any of the provisions of the preceding section or by any-of the provisions of this act, the attorney general, on his own motion, or by the request
of the governor, shall in person or by his assistant proceed to the locality
and perform such neglected duty and take such steps as are necessary in
the place instead of such solicitor, and at his discretifn to cause a prosecution to be instituted, not only in the matter so neglected, but also a prosecution against the solicitor for malfeasance or misfeasance in office or for
official misconduct or for other charges justified by facts and to pursue the
prosecution to the extent of a conviction and "dismissal'from office of any
such solicitor. And in such event the attorney general shall be, and is
hereby, authorized and empowered to appoint one or more additional assistants, who shall each have while actually employed the same compensation,
to be paid from the litigation fund of the attorney general.
Szc. 23. The state commissioner, under rules and regulations provided
by the state board of control, may enter into contracts with responsible

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

any seizure of said goods, under any pretence of authority,
would be a grievous trespass and in disregard of constitutional
rights, for which they would be held 'responsible, that the
grape-growers in ths State for the sale of domestic wines through the dispensary, se as to encourage grape-growing in this State, and in furtherance
of this object not more than ten per cent profit to the dispensary over the
expenses of bottling, labelling, freighting, etc., shall be charged for the
handling of such wines. The manager of every registered distillery of
liquor in.thlis State shall report quarterly to the state commissioner, showing the number of gallons of each kind of liquor on hand, manufactured
or disposed of during the quarter; and if the said report fail to correspond
with the return of said distiller to the United States internal revenue collector of this State, or it is shown that said manager has disposed of liquor contrary to this act, said distillery shall be deemed to be a common nuisance,
and the said manager and his aiders and assistants and the premises shall
be proceeded against as in this act provided as to places where liquors are
sold contrary to this act.
.SEc. 24. In all places where liquors are unlawfully kept or stored, the
same not being in an open house or exposed to view, and a search being
necessary, upon affidavit to that effect, or on information and belief that
conitraband liquor is in such place, a search warrant may be issued by a
justice, judge or trial justice, or mayor or intendant of a city or town, to
whom application is made, empowering a constable, or any person who
may be deputized, to enter the said place by daytime or in the night-time
and to search and exaiiine the said premises for the purpose of seizing the
said contraband liquors therein concealed, kept or stored, wich said liquor
wbdn so seized shall be disposed as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 25. That any of the liquors set forth in section one (1) of this
act, which are contraband, may be seized and taken without warrant by
any state constable, sheriff or policeman, while in transit or after arrival,
whether in possession of a common carrier, depot agent, express agent,
private person, firm, corporation or association, and reported to the state
commissifner at once, who shall dispose of the same as hereinafter provided. _Provided; That liquors purchased outside the State, owned and conveyed as personal baggage, shall be exempt from seizure.when the quantity
does not exceed one gallon.
SEC. 26. That the possession of said illicit liquors is hereby prohibited
and declared unlawful, and any obligation, note of indebtedness, contracted
in their sale or transportation is declared to be absolutely null and void,
nor shall any action or-suit for the recovery of the same be entertalngd In
any court in this State.
SEC. 27. That the proceeding against liquor so illegally kept, stored,
sold, delivered, transported or being trausported shall be considered a proceeding zn rem, unless otherwise herein provided, elsewhere than at his or
her residence.

SCOTT -. DONALD
Opinion of the Court.

defendants, notwithstanding such notice, and claiming to act
as constables of the State -of. South Carolina, forcibly seized

and carried away the said packages, and that, in committing
Szc. 28. That the carriage, transportation, possession, removal, saledelivery or acceptance of any of the said liquors or liquids In any package,
cask, jug, box or other package, under any other than the proper name or
brand known to the trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the casks, packages or boxes containing the same, or the causing
of such carriage, transportation, p.ossession, removal, sale, delivery or acceptance, shall work the forfeiture of said liquors or liquids and casks or
packages, and the person or persons so offending, knowingly, be subject to
pay a fine of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred
dollars, or imprisonment for the term of not less'than six months nor more
than one year, and the wrongful name, address, mark, stamp or style on
such liquor when seized shall be considered evidence prima facie of- gullt.
The books and way bills of the common carrier may be examined to trace
said liquor to the shipper, who shall be liable, upon conviction, in a like
peialty.
Sza. 29. That all constables, deputy constables, sheriffs, trial justicqs o.
municipal policemen shall have the right, power amd authority, and it shall
be their duty, whenever they are informed or suspect that any such suspicious package in possession c a common carrier contains alcoholic liquors
or liquids, to detain the same for examination for the term of twenty-fo.ur
hours without any warrant or process, whatever. Any constable, deputy
constable, sheriff or trial justice who shall neglect or refuse to perform the
duties required by this act shall be subject to suspension by the governor.
Any sheriff or trial justice seizing any alcoholic liquors or liquids, as required by this.section, shall be paid one half the value of such liquor or
liquids so soon as the same shall have been received at the state dispensary,
approved and disposed of according to law.
Sfc. 30. That any interference by any person with, obstruction or resistance of, orabusive language to, any officer or person in the discharge
of the duties herein enjoined, or the use of abusive language by any such
officer or person to any other person or persons, shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and the person or persons so offending shall, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five
hundred dollars, or imprisoned for a term of not less than three months nor
more than twelve months.
Saic. 31. In all cases of seizure of any goods, wares or merchandise hereafter or hertdfore made as being subject to forfeiture under any provision
of this act or the former act, which, in the opinion of the officer or person
making the seizure, are of the appraised value of fifty dollars or more, the
said officer or person shall proceed as follows- First: lie shall cause a list
containing a particular description of the goods, wares or merchandise
seized to be prepared in duplicate and an appraisement thereof to be made
VOL. CLXV-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the said unlawful acts, the said defendants acted knowingly,
-wilfully and maliciously, and with intent to oppress and
humiliate and intimidate the plaintiff, and make him afraid
by three sworn appraisers to be selected by him, who shall be respectable
and disinterested citizens of the State of South Carolina residing within the
county wherein the seizure was made. Said list and appraisement shall be
properly attested by the said officer or person and the said appraisers, for
-which service each of the said appraisers shall be allowed the sum of one
dollar per day not exceeding five days, to be paid by the state commissioner. Second. If the said goods are believed by the officer making the
seizure to be of less vilue than fifty dollars, no appraisement shall be
made. The said officer or person shall proceed to 'publish a notice for three
weeks, in writing, at three places in the county where the seizure was made,
describing the articles and stating the time and place aid cause of their
seizure, and requiring any person claiming them to appear and make such
claim within thirty days from the date of the first publication of such
notice. Third. Any person claiming the liquors so seized as contraband
and the vessels containing the same, within the time specified in the notice,
may file with the state commmssLoner a claim stating his interest in the
articles, seized, and may execute a bond to the state commissioner in the
penal sum of five hundred dollars, with sureties, to be approved by the said
state commissioner, conditioned that in the _-,se of condemnation of the
articles so seized the obligors shall pay all the costs and expenses of the
proceedings to obtain such condemnation, and upon the delivery of such
bonds to the state commissioner he shall transmit the same with the duplicate list or description of the goods seized to the solicitor of the circuit
muwhich such seizure was made and the said solicitor shall prosecute the
case to secure the forfeiture of said contraband liquors or liquids in the
court having jurisdiction. Fourth. If no claim is interposed and no bond
given within the time above specified, such liquors shall be forfeited without further proceedings, and the state commissioner shall have the said
liquors tested by the state chemist, and if pure shall sell the same through
the state dispensary as though purchased by him. If not pure, he shall
sell the same beyond the State and deposit the proceeds to the credit of the
state commissioner- Provided, That in seizures in quantities less in value
than fifty dollars of such illicit liquor or liquors, the same may be advertised
with other quantities at Columbia-by the state commissioner and disposed
of as hereinbefore provided. Provided,further, That the claimants of such
liquors may give bond in one hundred dollars as when the value Is fifty
dollars or over, and shall bear the burden of showing before a trial justice
that he .has complied with the law and that the liquor is not liable to
seizbre.
SEc. 32. That all fermented, distilled or other liquors or liquids containing alcohol, transported into this State or remaining herein for use, sale,
consumption, storage or other disposition, shall, upon introduction and

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

to rely upon the Constitution and laws of the Unite& States
and the judicial power thereof for his protection in the
rights, privileges and immunities secured to him by the Conarrival In this State, be subject to the operation and effect of this law to
the same extent and in the same manner as though such liquors or liquids
had'been produced in this State.
SEc. 33. That no person, except as provided in this act. shall bring into
this State or transport from place to place within this State, by wagonu, cart
or other vehicle, or by any other means or mode of carriage, any liquor or
liquids containing alcohol, under a penalty of one hundred dollars or Imprisonment for thirty days for each offence, upon conviction thereof, as for a
misdemeanor. Any servant, agent or employd of any persons, corporations
or associations, doing business in this State as common carrier, or any person whatever (except an officer seizing or examining the same), who shall
remove any intoxicating liquors from any railroad car, vessel or other
vehicle of transportation at any place other than the usual and established
stations, wharves, depots or places of business of such common carriers
within some incorporated city or town where there is a dispensary, or
who shall aid in or consent to such removal, or attempt to remove, shall
upon conviction be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars nor more than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment for a term of
not less than three months nor more than twelve months: Provided, .That said
penalty shall not apply to any liquor in transit when changed from car to
car to facilitate transportation across the State. Provided, That this section
does not apply to liquors purchased from a dispensary and bearing the
proper label .or certificate. All liquors in this State, except dispensary
liquors and those passing through this State, consigned to points beyond
this State, shall be deemed contraband, and may be seized in transit without
warrant. And any steamboat, sailing vessel, railroad, express company or
other common carrier transporting or bringing into this State for sale or
use therein, except by the dispensary, shall suffer a penalty of. five hundred
dollars and costs for each offence, to be recovered by the solicitor of the
circuit, or the attorney general, by an action brought therefor in any court
of competent jurisdiction. The state constable, sheriff, municipal police
or any lawful constable may enter any railroad car, or express car, or depot,
or steamboat, or other vessel, without warrant and make search for such
contraband liquors, and may examine the waybills and freight books of said
common carriers, and any one interfering-with or resisting such officers shall
lie punished by a filne of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five
hundred dollars, or imprisonment for a term of not less than three months
nor more than twelve months.
Stc. 34. That any person detected openly or in the act of violating any
of the provisions of this act shall be liable to arrest without warrant:
Provided, A warrant shall lie-procured within a reasonable time thereafter.
Szc. 35. That violations of any of the sections of this act where pun

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"'

stiftution and laws of the United States, and that the defendants well knew when they made said seizures and committed
said. trespasses that said acts were unlawful and forbidden by
Islnent upon conviction is not especially provided for, the person or
persons or corporations so convicted shall- be. punished.'in the discretion
df, the- court trying :the same. All alcoholic liquors other than dolnestle
wine, and in quantity more than five gallons, which do not have on the
packages in which they are contained the label and certificates going-to
show that they have been purchased from a state officer authorized to sell
them are hereby declared. contraband, and on seizure will be forfeited to
the State as provided in section. 31. Piouvided,-That this section shall not
apply to liquor held by the owners of registeied stills. Persons having
more than lve gallons of liquor which they wish to keep for their own use
may throw thie protection -of the law. around. the same by furnishing an
inventory of the quantity and. kinds to the state commissioner and applying for ert!ifcates to affix thereto. After sixty days from the approval of
this act any liquor found in the State not having such certificates may be
-seized and confiscated. Persons having more than they wish to use may
obtain certificates to ship beyond 'the -limits of th State. Any persons
affixing or causing to be affixed-to aqy package containing alcoholic liquor
any imitation stamp or other printedor engraved label or device than
those furnished by the state commissioner shall, for each offence, be liable
to a penalty of ten days' imprisonment or twenty-five dollars fine..
SEc. 36. Every person who-dispossesses or rescues from a constable or
other officer, or attempts so to do, any alcoholic liquor taken or detained
by such officer charged with the enforceinent of this law, shall, upon conviction, be imIrsoned not less than three months nor more than twelve
months, or pay a fine of.not less than one hundred dollars nor more than
five hundred dollars.
SEC. 37: Any person handling contraband liquor in the night-time, or
delivering the same, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction
shall be punished by imprisonment for not legs than three months, nor
more than twelve months, or by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
nor more than five hundred dollars.
SEc. 38. Any. wagon, cart, boat -or other conveyamie transporting
liquors at night, other than, regular passenger or freight steamers and
railway cars,, shall be liable to seizure and confiscation, and to that end the
officer shall cause the same to be 4uly advertised'and sold and the proceeds
sent to the state commissioner.
SEc. 39. Every dispenser when he sells a package containing liquor shall
put-a cross-mark in ink on the label or certificate thereon, extending from
the'top t. the bottom and from side to side. When (ny liquor is seized
because it has not the necessary certificates and labels required by this act,
the burden of proof shall be upon the claimant of .said spirits to show that
no fraud has been committed and that the whiskey is not contraband.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

the laws and Constitution of the United States, but that they
so acted, trusting and believing that they would be shielded
and protected from all harm by their official superiors in the
Srac. 40. That any railroad, steamboat, express company or other
common carrier, shall incur a penalty of treble the invoice price of any
alcoholic liquors lost or stolen in transit to or from the dispensary, whether
shipped as released or not, such penalty to be recovered by action in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
Szc. 41. That it shall be unlawful for any persons to take or to solicit
orders, or to receive money from other persons, for the purchase or shipment of any alcoholic liquors for or to such other persons in this State,
except for liquors to be purchased and shipped from the dispensary, and
any person violating this section, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by imprisonment for a term of not
less than three months nor more than twelve months, or by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars.
SEc. 42. It shall be the duty of sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and constables
having notice of the violation of any of the provisions of this act to notify
the circuit solicitor of the fact of such violation, and to furnish him the
names of any witness within their knowledge by whom such violation can
be proven. If any such officer or solicitor shall wilfully fail to comply
with the provisions of this section, he shall, upon conviction, be fined In a
sum not less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars,
and such conviction shall work a forfeiture of the office held by such person, and the court before whom such conviction is had shall, in addition to
the Imposition of the fine aforesaid, order and adjudge the forfeiture of hig
said office.
Sc. 43. The governor shall have authority to appoint one or more state
constables, at a salary of two dollars per day when on duty, and two chief
constables. at three dQllars each per day and expenses, to see that this act
Is enforced, the same to be charged to the expense account of the state
commissioner, except as otherwise provided in'this act.
SC. 44. That chapter I, title VII, of the Code of Civil Procedure of
tins State, entitled ",Of provisional remedies in civil actions," shall not
apply to any officer or person having duties to perform under this act, and
in no case shall an action lie against any such officer or person for damages,
to person or property as provided in said chapter.
Sic. 45. That when any bill of indictment shall have been given out
by any solicitor or by the attorney general or an assistant attoyney general
to any grand jury In any county of this State at aufterm of,the court of
general sessions therein charging any person or persons with any violation
of any of the provisions of the statutes of this State relating to spirituous,
alcoholic, malt or intoxicating liquors, such grand jury .iall in the opinion
of such prosecuting officer, from prejudice, caprice, undue influence or
Improper cause, refuse to find a true bill thereon, it shall be then and there

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

State of South Carolina., and that they made such seizures
and committed such trespasses wilfully and maliciously, with
the purpose and intent to trample on the plaintiff's rights
under the law and to do him all the injury in the pow.r of
the defendants.
These allegations must, for the purpose of disposing of the
present q1estion, be accepted by us as true or, at least, as
susceptible of proof.
Damages have been defined to be the compensation which
th law will award for an injury done, and are said to be
.exemplary and allowable in excess of the actual loss, where
a tort is, aggravated by evil motive, actual malice, deliberate
violence or oppression. While some courts and text-writers

have questioned the soundness of this doctrine, it has been
accepted m England, in most of the States of this Union, and
has received the sanction of this court.
In the case of Wilkes v Wood, Lofft, 19, which was an

action of trespass for breaking into the plaintiff's house and
seizing his papers, under color of a general -warrant by a secretary of State, Chief Justice Pratt, in charging the jury, and
in replying to the contention of the solicitor general that
damages nominal or merely compensatory were all that could
be allowed, said "Notwithstanding what the solicitor gencompetent fo such prosecuting offieer to move for, and for the presiding
judge to grant-at his discretion, a change of venue and place of hearing and
-trial at such stage of the proceedings when such judge is satisfied with the
showing of such prosecuting officer, to be made on the minutes of the court
or upon affidavit, that a fair and impartial consideration cannot he had before such grand jury.
.SE.c. 46. That whenever in this act it is provided that process sball
issue upon an affidavit based on information and belief, the affidavit shall
contain a statement setting forth the sources of information, the facts and
grounds of belief upon which the afflaut bases his belief Provided, That
it shall not be necessary to set forth the sources of information, the facts
and grounds of belief in the affidavit upon which a warrant df arrest" shall
Issue, but it shall only be necessary in cases of search warrants.
gc. 47. That this act shall be a public act, and shill go into effect Immediately upon its approval by the governor, and that all acts or parts of
acts inconsistent with .this act be, and are hereby, repeale4.
Approved January 2d, A.D. 1895.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

eral has. said, I have formerly delivered it as my opinion on
another occasion, and I still continue of the same mind, that a
jury have it in their power to give damages for more than the
injury received. Damages are designed not only as a **atisfaction to the injured person, but likewise as a punishment to the
guilty, to deter from any such proceeding foi the future, and as
a proof of the detestation of the jury to the action itself." The
jury found.a verdict with a thousand pounds damages.
In the case of Hlucde v Money, 2 Wilson, 205, there was a
motion for a new trial on the ground that the jury had allowed
excessive damages. It was proved on the trial .that the plaintiff was a journeyman printer, and was taken in custody by
the defendant, under the general warrant of a secretary of
State, upon suspicion of'.having printed a certain libellous
paper; that the defendant kept him in custody about six
hours, but used him very civilly by treating him with beefsteaks and beer, so that he suffered very little or no damages.
The jury gave him a verdict in three hundred pounds damages.
In disposing of the motion, the Lord Chief Justice Pratt said
"That if the jury had been confined by their oath to consider
the mere personal injury only, perhaps twenty pounds damages
would have been thought sufficient, but the small injury done
to the plaintiff, or the inconsiderableness of his station and
rank in life, did not appear to the jury in that striking light,
in which the great point of law touching the liberty of the
I cannot say
subject appeared to them at the trial.
what damages I should have given if I had been upon the jury,
but I directed and told them they were not bound to any certain damages. Upon the whole I am of opinion the damages
are not excessive, and that it is very dangerous for the .judges
to intermeddle in damages for torts, it must be a glaring case
indeed of outrageous damages in a tort, and which all mankind
at first blush must think so, to induce a court to grant a new
trial for excessive damages."
In Day v Woodworth, 13 How 371, which was an action
of trespass charging the defendants with tearing down and
destroying the plaintiff's mill dam, this court, through Mr.
Justice Grier, said

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"It is a well-established principle of the common law that,
in actions of trespass and all actions on the case for torts, a
jury may inflict what are called exemplary, punitive or vindictive damages upon a defendant, having in view the enormity of his offence rather than the measure of compeifsation
to the plaintiff. We are aware that the propriety of this doctrine has been questioned by some writers, but if repeated
judicial decisions for more than a century are to be received
as the best exposition of what the law is, the question will
not admit of argument. By the common, as well as by
statute law, men are often pumshed for aggravated misconduct or lawless acts, by means of a civil action, and the damages. inflicted by way of penalty or punishment given to the
party injured. In many civil actions, -such as libel, slander,
seduction, etc., the wrong done to the plaintiff is incapable
of being measured by a money standard, and the damages
assessed depend on the circumstances, showing the degree of
moral turpitude or atrocity of the defendant's conduct, and
may properly be termed exemplary or vindictive rather than
compensatory
"In actions of trespass, where the injury has been wanton
and malicious, or gross and outrageous, courts permit juries
to add to the measured compensation of the plaintiff which
he would have been entitled to'recover, had -the injury been
inflicted without design or intention, something farther by
way of punishment or example, which has sometimes been
called ' smart money' This has always been left to the discretion of the jury, as the degree of punishment to be thus
inflicted must depend on the particular 'circumstances of each
case."
Pliladelpkma, MVilmsngton & :BaltimoreRailroadv Quzgley,
21 How. -202, 213, was a case wherein a railroad company was
responsible in anaction for the publication of a libel, and
although this court reversed the Circuit Court for allowing
the jury to give exemplary damages, because there was no
evidence that the injury was inflicted maliciously or wantonly,
yet the case of Day v. Woodwortk, 13 How 363, was cited
with approval as recognizing the power of a jury in certain

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

actions of tort to assess against the tort-feasor punitive or
exemplary damages, and as laying down the law that whenever the injury complained of has been inflicted maliciously
or wantonly, and with circumstances of contumely ov indignity,. the jury are not limited to the ascertainment of a simple
compensation for the wrong committed against the aggrieved
person.
This was likewise recognized a's well-settled doctrine in the
case of Lake Swre Railway v. Prentice,147 U. S. 107.
The intentional, malicious and repeated interference by the
defendants with the exercise of personal rights and privileges
secured to .the plaintiff by the Constitution of the 'United
States, as alleged in the complaint, constitutes, as we think,
a wrong and injury not the subject of compensation by a mere
money standard, but fairly within the doctrine of the cases
wherein .exemplary damages have been allowed. Those allegations of the complaints,, though denied in the answers, have
been sustained by the tribunal-in these cases the court, a
jury having been waived - which -had to pass upon the issues
of fact.
That the amount of the recovery in each case fell short of
the sum of two thousand dollars did not withdraw the cases
from the jurisdiction of the court. As the declarations alleged
damages in the sum of, six thousand dollars, and'as a jury
would be at liberty to find any amount not in excess of that
sum, the jurisdiction, having once validly attached, would
not be defeated by the fact that the recoveries were for sums
less than two thousand dollars. As said in the case of Day v.
Woodworth, above cited, "The amount has always been left
to the discretion of the jury, as the degree of the punishment
to be then inflicted must depend on the particular circumstances of ,each case."
Barry v. Fdmunds, 116 U. S. 550, was a fully considered
case, and it was there held that a suit cannot properly be
dismissed by a Circuit Court of the United States as not
substantially irvolving & controversy within the jurisdiction
of the court, unless the facts, where made to appear on the
record, create a legal certainty of that conclusion, that where

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

exemplary damages beyond the sum' necessary to give a Circuit Court of the United States jurisdiction are claimed in an
action for a malicious trespass, the court should not dismiss
the case for want of jurisdiction simply because the record
shows that the actual injury caused to the plaintiff by the
trespass was less than the jurisdictional amount, and that
it is settled in this court that in an action for a trespass
accompanied with malice the plaintiff may recover exemplary
damages in excess of the amount of his injuries, if the ail
damnum is properly laid.
Our inquiries thus far have proceeded on the assumption
that the injuries complained of were inflicted in the enforcement of an unconstitutional law of the State. Sustaining the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on that -assumption, we are
now brought to the more important and difficult question
whether the so called dispensary law of the State of South
Carolina is, indeed, as to some or all of its parts, invalid, as
being in conflict with the Constitution of the United States
and acts of Congress made thereunder 2 Is that statute a
lawful exercise of the police power of the State?
In the present discussion we do not deem it necessary or
desirable to review the numerous cases in which this court
has had occasion to consider similar questions. We shall find
it sufficient to apply to the case before us. the conclusions announced in several very recent cases.
The difficulty of the subject is shown in the frequent and
elaborate dissents in many of the cases. Still, it can be safely
said that the differences of opinion thus manifested have not
been so much upon fundamental principles, as upon questions
of the construction and meaning of the various state statutes
that have been under consideration. Tkiose statutes have
covered almost innumerable subjects, such as the exclusion
from the State of contagious or infectious diseases, or of criminals, paupers and others likely to become a burden or public
charge, regulations requiring railroad companies to fence
their roads, forbidding the manufacture and sale of oleomargarme, the prohibition of Sunday labor, even by railroad companies partly engaged in interstate commerce, etc.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

But the particular state laws that have been most frequently considered, and have occasioned the most discussion,
have been those that have sought to regulate or forbid the
importation, manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors.
And the law, whose validity we are now to consider, is one of
that class.
The evils attending the vice of intemperance in the use of
spirituous liquors are so great that a natural reluctance is felt
in appearing to interfere, even on constitutional grounds, with
any law whose avowed purpose is to restrict or prevent the
mischief. So long, however? as state legislation continues to
recognize wines, beer and spirituous liquors as articles of lawful consumption and commerce, so long must continue the
duty of the Federal courts to afford to such use and commerce
the same measure of protection, under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, as is given to other articles.
We cheerfully concede that the law in question was passed
in the bona fide exercise of the police power. We disclaim
any imputation to the law-makers of South Carolina of a design, under the guise of a domestic regulation, to interfere
with the rights and privileges of either her own citizens or
those of her sister States, which are secured to them by the
Constitution and laws of the United States.
But, as we have had more than one occasion to observe, our
willingness to believe that this statute was enacted in good
faith, and to protect the people of the State from the evils
of unrestricted importation, manufacture and sale of ardent
spirits, cannot control the final determination whether the
statute, in some of its provisions, is not repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States. As was said in Mugler
v. Kana8, 123 U. S. 623, 661 "If a statute purporting to
have been enacted to protect the public health, the public
morals or the public safety, has no real or substantial relation
to those objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights secured
by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the courts to so adjudge, and thereby give effect to the Constitution."
It is important to observe that the statute -before us does
not purport to prohibit either the importation, the manufac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

ture, the sale or the use of intoxicating liquors. The first
section does, indeed, make it penal to manufacture, sell,
barter, deliver, store or keep in possession any spirituous,
malt, vinous, fermented, brewed or other liquors, which contain alcohol, and are used as a beverage, and declares all such
liquors to be contraband and against the morals, good health
and safety of the State, and authorizes them, to be seized
wherever found, without warrant, and turned ever to the
state commissioner, yet those enactments are not absolute,
but are made subject to the subsequent provisions of the
act. When those subsequent provisions are examined, we
find that, so far from the importation, manufacture and sale
of such liquors being prohibited, those operations are turned
over to state functionaries, by whom alone, or under whose
direction, they are to be carried on.
Thus section three provides for the appointment of a state
commissioner, who is required to purchase all intoxicating liquors for lawful sale in the State, and to furnish the same to
such persons as may be designated as dispensers thereof, to be
sold as thereafter provided in the act. Such commissioner is
directed, before shipping the liquor to county dispensaries,
to cause the same to be.put up in sealed packages of not less
than one half pint nor more than five gallons, in which packages they shall be sold by county dispensers.
The fifteenth section enacts that "any person, firm, association or corporation desiring or intending to manufacture or
-distill any liquors containing alcohol within the State, shall
first obtain from the state board a permit or license to doso," and said section fufther provides "that manufacturers of
distilled, malt or vinous liquors who are doing business within
this State shall be allowed to sell to no person in this State
except the state commissioner and to parties outside the State,
and the state commissioner shall 'purchase his supplies from
the brewers and distillers in this State when their product
reaches the standard required by this, act Provmded, Such
supplies can be purchased as cheaply from such brewers and
distillers in this State as elsewhere." So, too, the twenty-third
section provides that "the state commissioner may enter into

SCOTT v. DONAILD.
Opinion of the Court.

contracts with responsible grape-growers in this State for the
sale of domestic wines through the dispensary, so as to encourage grape-growing in this State, -and in furtherance of
this subject not more than ten per cent profit to the dispensary over the expense of bottling, labelling, freighting, etc.,
shall be charged for the handling of such wines." But there
is no such limitation of charge in the case of imported wines.
And in cases of seizure of contraband liquors, the thirty-first
section provides that "the state commissioner shall have the
same tested by the state chemist, and if pure shall sell the
same through the state dispensary as though purchased by
him, and if not pure he shall sell the same beyond the State,
and deposit the proceeds to the credit of the state commissioner."
In view of these and similar provisions, it is indisputable
that whatever else may be said of this act, it was not intended
to prohibit the manufacture, sale and use of intoxicating
liquors. On the contrary, liquors and wines are recognized
as commodities which may be lawfully made, bought and
sold, and must therefore be deemed to be the subject of
foreign and interstate commerce.
It is sought to defend the act, as an inspection act, within
the meaning of that provision of the Constitution 6f the
United States which permits the States to impose excise
duties as far as they may be absolutely necessary for executing their inspection laws.
The act does, indeed, contain provisions looking to the
ascertainment of- the purity of liquors, and to that extent
may be said to be in the nature of an inspection law But
those provisions, such as they are, do not redeem the act
from the charge- of being an obstructin and interference
with foreign and interstate commerce. This aspect of the
question has bten several tuies considered by this court in
cases where similar attempts w.re made to sustain state
statutes as legitimate inspection laws.
In Railroad Co. v. Esu8en, 95 U. S. 465, the validity of an
act of the State of Missouri, which forbade the introduction
into the Staff of any'Texan or Mexican cattle between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

months of March and December of each and every year, was
-considered.
It was contended on behalf of the law that it was valid as
a quarantine or inspection law, as its purpose was to prevent
'the introduction of cattle afflicted with contagious diseases.
But the court pointed out that no provision was made for
the actual inspection of the cattle, so as to secure the rejection
-of those that were diseased, but that all importation of
-cattle, whether sound or diseased, was forbidden for long
periods, and it was held that the statute was void as a plain
.intrusion upon the exclusive domain of Congress.
Walling v Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, 459, 460, was a case
wherein was brought into question the validity of a statute of the
State of Michigan, which imposed a tax or duty on persons
who, not having their principal place of business within the
,State, engage in the business of selling liquors, to be shipped
into the State, and it was held that a discriminating tax
imposed by a State, operating to the disadvantage of the
products of other States when introduced into the first mentioned State, is, in effect, a regulation in restraint of commerce among the States, and as such -is a usurpation of the
power confirmed by the Constitution upon the Congress of
the United States. Answering the argument upon which
the law had been sustained by the Supreme Court of the
State, this court, through Mr. Justice Bradley, said "It is.
-suggested by the learned judge who delivered the opinion of
the Supreme Court of Michigan in this case, that the tax
imposed by the act of 1875 is an exercise by the legislature
of Michigan of the police power of the State for the discouragement of the use of intoxicating liquors, and the
preservation of the health and morals of the people. This
would be" a perfect justification of the act if it did not dis-crinmnate against the citizens and products of other States in a
matter of commerce between the States, and thus usurp one
of the prerogatives of the national legislature. The police
power cannot be set up to. control the, inhibitions of the
Federal Constitution, or the powers of the United States
governmeilt created thereby"

SCOTT v. DONAMD.
Opinion of the Court.

In 1886 the legislature of the State of Iowa passed an act
forbidding any common carrier from bringing within that
State, for any person or corporation, any intoxicating liquors
from any other State or Territorl- of the United States, without first having been furnished with a certificate, under the
seal of the county auditor of the county to which said liquor
was to be transported or was consigned for transportation, certifying that the consignee or person to whom.said liquor was to
be transported, conveyed or delivered, was authorized to sell
intoxicating liquor in said county This statute was declared
invalid in the case of Bowman v 6Jhcago & Northwestern
Railway, 125 U. S. 465, 493, this court saying, through Mr.
Justice Matthews "The statute of Iowa under consideration
falls within this prohibition. It is not an inspection law,
it is not a quarantine or sanitary law It is essentially a regulation of commerce among the States within any definition
heretofore given to that term, or which can be given, and
although its motive and purpose are to perfect the policy of
the State of Iowa in protecting its citizens against the evils
of intemperance, it is none the less on that account a regulation of commerce. If it had extended its provisions so as to
prohibit the introduction into the State from foreign countries
of all importations of intoxicating liquors produced abroad,
no one would doubt the nature of the provision as a regulation of foreign commerce. Its nature is not changed by its
application to commerce among the States.
And
here is the limit between the sovereign power of the state
and the Federal power. That is to say, that.which does not
belong to commerce is within the jurisdiction of the police
power of the State and that which does belong to commerce
is within the jurisdiction of the Uiited States.
The
same process of legislation and reasoning adopted by the
State and its courts would bring within the police power any
article of consumption that a State might wish to exclude,
whether to that which was drank or to food and clothing."
in Leisy v. Iardin, 135 U. S. 100, it was recognized that
ardent spirits, distilled liquors, ale and beer are subjects of
exchange. barter and traffic lile any other commodity in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

which a right of traffic exists, and that being thus articles, of
commerce, a State cannot, in the absence of legislation on the
part of Congress, prohibit their importation from abroad or
from a sister State, nor when imported prohibit their sale by
the importer, and, accordingly, it was held that a statute of
the State of Iowa, prohibiting the sale of any intoxicating
liquors, except for pharmaceutical, medicinal, chemical or
sacramental purposes, and under a license from a county court
of the State, was, as applied to a sale by the importer, and m
the original packages or kegs, unbroken and unopened, of such
liquors manufactured and brought from another"State, unconstitutional and void, as repugnant to the clause of the Constitution granting to Congress the power to regulate commerce
with foreign nations and among the several States.
In Minnesota v Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 326, 328, the facts so
closely resemble those shown by the record now under consideration, and the principles stated in the opinion are so applicable, that we shall'state them with some particularity
A statute of the State of Minnesota, entitled "An act for
the protection of the public health by providing for inspection,
before slaughter, of cattle, sheep and swine designed for
slaughter for human food," in its first section prohibited the
sale of any fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or- pork for human
food in the State, except as subsequently provided in the act.
Boards of inspectors were there provided for, whose duty it
should be to inspect all cattle, sheep and swine slaughtered
for human food. It was made a matter of fine or imprisonment for any one to sell or expose for sale for human food
any fresh beef, mutton, lamb or pork which had not been so
inspected.
This court, in an opinion delivered by Mr. .lustice Harlan,
while conceding that the statute was enacted in good faith,
for-the purpose expressed.in the title, namely, to protect the
health of the people of Minnesota, held that, as the necessary
effect of the act was to deny altogether to the citizens of other
'States the privilege of selling, within the limits of Minnesota.
for human food, any fresh beef, mutton, veal or pork, from
animals slaughtered outside of the State, and to compel the

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

people of Minnesota, wishing to buy such meats, either to purchase those taken from animals -inspected and slaughtered in
the State, or to incur the cost of purchasing them, when desired for their own domestic use, at points beyond the State,
such legislation was void as constituting a discrimination
against the products and business of other States in favor of
the products and business of Minnesota, and as depriving the
people of Minnesota of the right to bring into that State, for
the purposes of sale and use, sound and healthy meat, wherever
such meat may have come into existence. It was said
"A law providing for the inspection of animals whose meats
are designed for human food cannot be regarded as a rightful
exertion of the police powers of the State, if the inspection
prescribed is of such a character, or is burdened with such
conditions, as will prevent altogether the introduction into
the State of sound meats, the products of animals slaughtered
in other States. It is one thing for a State to exclude from
its limits cattle, sheep or swine, actually diseased, or meats
that, by reason of their condition, or the condition of the ammals from which they are taken, are unfit for human food,
and punish all sales of such animals or of such meats within
its limits. It is quite a different thing for a State to declare,
as does Minnesota by the necessary operation of its statute,
that fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb or pork-articles that are
used in every part of this country to support human lifeshall not be sold at all for human food within its limits, unless
the animal from which such meat is taken is inspected in that
State, or, as is practically said, unless the animal is slaughtered
in that State.
It is, however, .contended, in behalf of
the State, that there is in fact no interference by this statute,
with the bringing of cattle, sheep and swine into Minnesota
from other States, nor any discrimination against the products
and business of other States for the reason - such is the argu-

ment -that the statute requiring an inspection of animals on
the hoof, as a condition of the privilege of selling, or offering
for sale, in the State, the meats taken from them, is applicable
alike to all owners of such animals, whether citizens of Minnesota or citizens of other States. To this we answer, that a
VOL. cLXV-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

statute may, upon its face, apply equally to the people of, all
the States, and yet be a regulation of interstate commerce
which a State may not establish. A burden imposed by a
State upon interstate commerce is not to be sustained simply
because the statute imposing it applies alike to the people of
all the States including the people of the State enacting such
statute. Robbm8s v. Shelby Ta=ng Dulmd, 120 U. S., 489,
497, Case of the State F'etg&t Tax, 15 Wall. 232. The people
of Minnesota have as much right to protection against the
enactments of that State, interfering with the freedom of
commerce among the States, as have the people of other
States. Although this statute is not avowedly, or in terms,
directed against the bringing into Minnesota of the products
of other States, its necessary effect is to burden or affect commerce with other States, as 'involved in the transportation
into that State, for the purposes of sale there, of. all fresh beef,
veal, mutton, lamb or pork, however free from disease may
have been the animals from- which it was taken."
The same reasoning *evailed 'in Brmner v. Rebman,.138
U. S. 78, wherein an act of the State of Virginia, which declared it to be unlawful to offer for sale, within the limits of
that State, any beef, veal or mutton from animals slaughtered
one hundred miles or more from the place at which it is offered for sale, unless it has been previously inspected and
approved by local inspectors, was held void, as being in restraint of commerce between the States, and as imposing a
discriminating tax upon the products and industries of some
States in favor of the products and industries of Virginia, and
wherein it was said " that the statute of Virginia, although
avowedly enacted -to- protect its people against the sale of
unwholesome meats, has no real or substantial relation to
such- an object, but, by its necessary operation, is a regulation
of commerce, beyond the power of the State to establish."
After the decision in Lewy v. Hardin, and, perhaps, in pursuance of some observations contained therein, Congress passed
the act of August 8, 1890, 26 Stat. 313, c. 728, enacting "that
all fermented, distilled or other intoxicating liquors, or liquids
transported into any State or Territory, or remaining therein

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opinion of the Court.

for use, consumption, sale or storage therein, shall upon arrival in such State or Territory be subject to the operation and
effect of the laws of such State or Territory enacted in the
exercise of its police powers to the same extent and in the
same manner as though such liquids or liquors had been produced in such State or Territory, and shall not be exempt
therefrom by reason of being introduced therein in original
packagesor otherwise." This law was approved as valid, in
the case of In re .Rahrer,140 U. S. 545, and a provision of
the constitution of Kansas, which provided that the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors shall be forever prohibited in that State, except for medicinal, scientific and
mechanical purposes, and an act passed in enforcement
thereof, making penal the manufacture, sale or barter of any
spirituous, malt, vinous, fermented or other intoxicating
liquors, were held to be efficacious, and that imported liquors
or liquids shall, upon arrival in a State, fall within the category of domestic articles of a similar nature.
In .Plumley v .Ma88achusetts, 155 U. S. 461, 471, and in
Emmert v. .Miour, 156 U. S. 296, in the first of which the
validity of a state law forbidding the manufacture and sale
of imitation butter, and in the second the validity of an act
compelling itinerant pedlers to take out licenses, were sustained, the scope and effect of the case of Iesy v. Bardin
and of the act of Congress of August 8, 1890, were considered
.and a full review of the cases heretofore cited was gone into
and their principles elaborately discussed.
In the light of these cases the act of South Carolina.of
January 2, 1895, must, as to those of its provisions which
affect -the plaintiff in the present suit, stand condemned.
It is not an inspection law The prohibition of the importation of the wines and liquors of other States by citizens of
South Carolina for their own use is made absolute, and does
not depend on the purity or impu, ,6y of the articles. Only
the state functionaries are permitted to import into the State,
and thus those citizens who wish to use foreign wines and
liquors are deprived of the exercise of their own judgment
and taste in the selection of commodities. To empower a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

state chemist to pass upon what the law calls the "alcoholic
purity" of such importations by chemical analysis can
scarcely come within any definition of a reasonable inspection law
It is not a law purporting to forbid the importation, manufacture, sale and use of intoxicating liquors, as articles detrimental to the welfare of the State and to the health of the
inhabitants, and hence it is not within the scope and operation
of the act of Congress of August, 1890. That law was not
intended to confer upon any State the power to discriminate
injuriously against the products of other States iL articles
whose manufacture and- use are not forbidden, and which are
therefore the subjects of legitimate commerce. When that law
provided that "all fermented, distilled or intoxicating liquors
transported into any State.or Territory, remaining therein for
use, consumption, sale or storage therein, should, upon arrival
in such State or Territory, be subject to the operation and effect
of the laws of such State or Territory enacted in the exercise
of its police powers, to the same extent and in the same manner as though such liquids or liquors had been produced in
such State or Territory, and should. not be exempt therefrom
by reason of being introduced therein in original packages
or otherwise," evidently equality or uniformity of treatment
under state laws was intended. The question whether a given
state law is a lawful exercise of the police power is still open,
and must remain open, to .this court. Such a law may forbid
entirely the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors and
be valid. Or it may provide equal regulations for the inspection and sale of all domestic and imported liquors and
be valid. But the State cannot, under the Congressional
legislation referred to, establish a system which, in effect,
discriminates between interstate and domestic commerce in
commodities to make and use which are admitted to be
lawful.
Whether those provisions of the act which direct that so
called contraband liquors may be seized without warrant by
any state constable, sheriff or policeman, while in transit or
after arrival, whether in possession of a common carrier,

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Opmiuon of the Court.

depot agent, express agent or private person, and which subject common carriers to fine and imprisonment for carrying
liquors in any package, cask, jug, box or other package, under
any other than ,the proper name or brand known to the trade,
and which forbid the bringing of any suit for damages alleged
to arise by seizing and detention of liquors under the act,
would be lawful in an inspection law otherwise valid, we do
not find it necessary to now consider. It was pressed on us,
in the argument, that it is not competent for a State, in the
exercise of its police power, to monopolize the traffic in intoxicating liquors, and thus put itself in competition with the
citizens of the other States.
This phase of the subject is novel and interesting, but we
do not think it necessary for us now to consider it. It is
sufficient for the present cases to hold, as we do, that when a
State recognizes the nianufacture, sale and use of ifitoxicating
liquors as lawful, it cannot discriminate against the bringing
of such articles in, and importing them from other States,
that such legislation is void as a hindrance to interstate com-merceand an unjust preference of the products of the enacting
State as against similar products of the other States.
There has been filed in the record a suggestion by the
.attorney general of the State of South Carolina that, since
the trials of these cases in the court below, there has been
passed by the general assembly of that State a further act
approved by the governor on March 6, 1896, which act it is
'submitted, supersedes and repeals parts of the act which has
been under consideration in these cases, and we are asked to
consider the provisions of the more recent act.
So far as these actions at law are concerned, it is, of course,
obvious that the damages recovered were for acts committed
under the alleged authority of the act of 1895, and cannot be
affected by the provisions of the act of 1896, even if the
invalidities of the former act were thereby remedied- a
matter on which we express no opinion.
The judgments of the Circuit Court. are
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

:Mii. JusTcE BRowN

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court holding
the South Carolina dispensary law to be unconstitutional,, as
applied to the facts of this case. While I see no reason to
question the propriety of our rulings in the cases analyzed in
the opinion, of Railroad Co. v HUsen, 95 U S. 465, llinnesota v. Barber, 136 U S. 313, and Bri'mer v. Rebman, 138
U. S. 78, they do not seem to me to have any considerable
bearing upon the question in controversy, in view of the recent legislation by Congress upon the subject of intoxicating
liquors.
In Lez8y v Rardin, 135 U. S. 100, this court in April, 1890,
overruling the prior case of Pewroe v .NewHampshire,5 How
504, held that a state statute prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors, except for certain purposes, and under license from
a county court, was, when applied to a sale by-an importer of
liquors brought from another State in the original packages,
unconstitutional and void, as repugnant to the power of Congress to regulate commerce. Following closely upon this
decision, and probably in consequence of it, Congress, upon
August 8 of the same year, enacted what is popularly known
as the "'Wilson bill," and declared that all such liquors transported into any State, or remaining there for use, consumption, sale or storage, .should, upon arrival be "subject to the
operation and effect of the laws of such State, enacted in the
exercise of its police powers," to the same extent as if they
had been- produced in such State.
The effect of this enactment seems to me to withdraw intoxicating liquors from the operation of the commerce clause of
the Constitution, and to permit the traffic in them to be regulated in such manner as the several States, in the exercise of
their police powers, shall deem best for the general interests
of the public. The act is not limited in its operation, as the
majority opinion seems to assume, to state laws forbidding the
importation, manufacture and sale of such liquors, but declares that they shall be subject, upon their arrival within the
State, to the operation of all its laws enacted in the exercise

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

of its police powers. Adopting the very language of the act
of Congress, section 32 of the dispensary law provides "That
all fermented, distilled or other liquors or liquids containing
alcohol, transported into this State or remaining herein for
use, sale, consumption, storage or other disposition, shall, upon
introduction and arrival in this State, be subject to the operation and effect of this law, to the same extent and in the same
manner as though such liquors or liquids had been produced
in the State."
We cannot fail to recognize the growing sentiment in this
country in favor of some restrictions upon the sale of ardent
spirits, and whether such restrictions shall take the form of a
license tax upon dealers, a total prohibition of all manufacture or sale whatever, or the assumption by the state government of the power to supply all liquors to its inhabitants,
is a matter exclusively for the States to decide.
The first section of the dispensary law of South Carolina
declares that the manufacture, sale, receipt, acceptance or
keeping in possession of alcoholic liquors, excepiWhen bought
from a state officer authorized to sell the same, are declared
to be contraband, and against the morals, good health and
safety of the State, and may be seized' wherever found without warrant. Now, as Congress has expressly declared that
such articles shall, upon their arrival in the State, become
subject to its laws to the same extent as if they had been.
originally produced there, and, as the dispensary-act does not
declare them contraband as imported liquors, or because they
were imported, but because they were not bought from a
state officer authorized to sell the same, and as the law makes
no discrimination in that particular between imported and
domestic liquors, it is impossible for me to see why Congress
has not directly authorized the action that was taken by the
state officers in seizing these liquors. The power to declare
intoxicating, liquors to be contraband and to prohibit their
manufacture and sale m toto was affirmed by this court in
Hugler v. Kanezs, 123 U. S.623, and if the provision requiring them to be bought of the state dispensary be Yalid, it
applies as wpll to imported as to domestic liquors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion

Brown, J.

But, as I understand, the court bases to a certain extent its
opinion of the unconstitutionality of this act upon the fact
,that the traffic in intoxicating liquors is not absolutely prohibited, but is monopolized by the State itself through the
agency of a state commissioner, who is required ( 3) to
"purchase all intoxicating liquors for lawful sale" in the
State, and to "furnish the same to such persons as may be
designated as dispensers thereof," to be sold as thereafter
providedun the act. Conceding this to be so, I am unable
to see that any provsionjof the Federal Constitution is
thereby infringed. The Constitution does, indeed, require
of each State. a republican form of government, and, in the
tenth section of the first article, imposes certain limitations
upon state action, none of which have any relevancy to the
subject under consideration. Except as restricted by the provisions of this section, the several state legislatures possess, so
far as any interference by the Federal government is concerned,
full legislative pqwers, and, with respect to the subject of intoxicating liquors, are, since the passage of the "Wilson bill,"
untrammelled by the Federal Constitution.
Granting that the act gives the State itself a monopoly of
all traffic &nsuch liquors, it is not a monopoly in the ordinary
or odious sense of the term, where one individual or corporation is .given- the right to manufacture or trpie which is not
open 'to other.s, but a monopoly for the benefit of the whole
people of the State, the profits of which, if any, are enjoyed
by the whole people ; in short, a monopoly in the same. sense
in which -the Post Office Department, and the right to carry
the mails, is a monopoly of the Federal government. Iowevs8em v..Evan8, 69 Fed. Rep. 908.

The only objections to the dispensary law which strike me
as being of any force ate the, provisions of the fifteenth and
twenty-third sections, requiring, the state commissioner to
purchase his supplies from the brewers and distillers in the
Spate, but even this. provision, though perhaps unwise, is
subject to two conditfons first, that their product shall reach
the standard requed by the act, and, second, that such supplies "bcan be purchased as cheaply from such brewers rand

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

distillers in this State as elsewhere. As this restriction is
practically no restriction at all, and only incorporates in
the statute exactly what the law would imply without it, I
see no valid objection to it.
But even if it were conceded that this particular provision
of the law were inoperative, and might be so declared in a
case properly raising that question, it is not of the essence of
the law, but a mere incident to the power of the commissioner,
and surely should not have the sweeping effect of rendering
the whole law unconstitutional and void. The main object of
the act is to preserve the health and morals of the people by
securing to them pure liquors, prohibiting individual dealings
in such liquors, and requiring all such traffic to be carried on
through the agencies of the State. Such methods of dealing
with this traffic are by no means unknown abroad. Indeed,
I understand the act to be but the reproduction in this country of what is known as the Gothenberg system.
It is entirely well settled that the unconstitutionality of a
particular provision will not invalidate an entire statute,
unless such provision embodies the main purpose of the
statute, or is so connected with such purpose that it is inseparable from it, or, unless the court can see that the legislature
would not have passed the act without such provision. This
doctrine has been repeatedly affirmed by this court. Bank of
Hamilton,v. Dudley, 2 Pet. 492, Austin v The Aldermen,
7 Wall. 694, Packet Co. v .Heokuk, 95 U. S. 80. Indeed, in
Tiernan v Rinker, 102 U. S. 123, this court held an act of
the legislature of Texas, taxirfg intoxicating liquors, to be
inoperative only so far as it discriminated against imported
wines or beers, and that as defendant was also engaged in
selling other liquors, an injunction was properly refused.
That the provision that the commissioner in purchasing the
liquors shall give preference to those of domestic manufacture
is separable from the main purpose of the act seems to me too
clear for argument. That the legislature would have passed
the act without this provision is conclusively shown by the
fact that, in a general amendment and refnactment of this
law, made in 1896, this provsion was omitted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

While the power of courts to declare an act of legis.
lation to be unconstitutional undoubtedly exists, it is one of
great delicacy, particularly when brought to bear, upon the
legislative acts of another sovereignty In one of -he, early
cases decided by this court, Fether v Peck, 6 Cranch, 87,
128, it was said by Chief Justice Marshall "But it is not on
slight implication and vague conjecture that the legislature is
to be ronounced to have transcended its powers, and its acts
to be considered as void. The opposition between the Constitution and the law should be such that the judge feels a clear
and strong conviction of their incompatibility with each
other." Still more explicit is the language of Chief Justioe
Waite in the Sinkag .Fund case8, 99 U. S. 700, 718 "It is
our duty., when required in the regular course of judicial proceedings, to declare an act of Congress void if not within the
legislative power of the United States, but this declaration
should never be made except in a clear case. Every possible
-presumption is in favor of the.validity of a statute, and this
continues until the contrary is shown beyond a rational doubt.
One branch of the government cannot encroach on the domain of another without danger. The safety of our institutions depend in .no' small degree on a strict observance of this
salutary rule."
I regard these words as,particularly applicable to the dealings by this court with theoproceedings of a state legislature,
and that their right to deteminne what-is for the best interests
of their people should be -carefully respected, except where it
comes in manifest cotflit.witf-the dominant law. Especially
should everything be avoided, which carries the suggestion of
a vexatious interference -with state action. The manifest
dangers- to the future of.the country, which lurk in the inflexibility of the Federal Constitution, can only be averted
by carefully distinguishing between- such laws as practically
concern the inhabitants of a particular State only, and are
intended bona fide for their*welfare,:and such as are a mere
subterfuge for an unlgwful discrimination, and cannot be
carried into effect without doing palpable injustice to citizens
of otlir States. It should not be overlooked in this connec-

SCOTT v. DONALD.
Syllabus.

tion that the complaints in this case emanate from a citizen of
South Carolina, who seeks to defy the law of his own State,
and puts forward as his excuse the injustice done the citizens
of other States who make no complaint of her action in this
particular. If a State cannot prohibit her own citizens from
importing liquors, as well as buying them at home, the
"Wilson bill" is set at nought, and the prohibitory laws of
the several States rendered inoperative in a vital particular.
The fact that these liquors were imported for complainant's
own use and consumption, instead of for sale, raises no question
under the Federal Constitution. Both are under the ban of
the statute.
I am unable to see wherein that section of the dispensary
act of South Carolina, which authorized the seizure made in
tns case, conflicts in any particular with the Federal Constitution.
M .JusTIcE BREWER did not hear the argument and took
no part m the decision of these cases.

SCOTT v. DONALD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT

OF

STATES

FOR

SOUTH 'CAROLINA.

No. 410. Argued October 21, 22,1896.-Decided January 18, 1897.

Where a suit is brought against defendants who claim to act as officers
of a State, and, under color of an unconstitutional statute, commit acts
of wrong and injury to the property of the plaintiff, to recover money or
property in their hands unlawfully taken by them in behalf of the State;
or for compensation for damages; or, in a proper case, for an injunction
to prevent such wrong and injury; or for a mandamus in a like case to
enforce the performance of a plain legal duty, purely ministerial, such
suit is not, within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution, an action against the State.
Circuit Courts of the United States will restrain a state officer from executing an unconstitutional statute of the State when to execute it would
be to violate rights and privileges of the complainant that had been guar-

