UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

463

Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. WINONA AND ST. PETER
RAILROAD COIMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 321. Ar.ued November 3), December 1, 19I.-Decided February 15, 189T.
In view of the fact that many years have passed since the certification of
the lands in controversy, and since the railroad company, in reliance
upon the title which it believed it had acquired, disposed of them, and
that other parties have become interested in them, and have dealt with
them as private property, the appellees are justified in saying that they
have large claims upon the equitable consideration of the courts.
The act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat: 536, providing for the adjustment of
land grants made by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads,
and the act of March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42, operated to confirm the title
to purchasers from a railroad company of lands certified or patented to or
for its benefit, notwithstanding any mere errols or irregularities in the
proccedings of the land department, and notwithstanding the fact that
the lands so certified or patented were, by the true construction of the
land grants, although within the limits of the grants, excepted from-their
operation; provided that they purchased in good faith, and paid value
for the lands, and provided, also, that the lands were public lands in the
statutory sense of the term, and free from individual or other claims.

THIS was a bill in equit-v filed by the United States in the
'ircuit Court for the District of Minnesota under authority of
the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 376, 24: Stat. 556, providing for the adjustment of land grants made by Congress to
aid in the construction of railroads, and for the forfeiture of
unearned lands, etc. The charge was that the lands specified
in the bill had been wrongfully certified to the State of
Minnesota for the benefit of the defendant company, and, the
prkyer was for a cancellation of such certification and a restoration of the lands to the public domain. After answers by
the railroad company and some of the other defendants an
agreed statement of facts was prepared, upon which, with the
pleadings, the case was submitted to the Circuit Court for
decision. Upon" hearing a decree was entered dismissing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

bill, which thereafter was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. 32 U S. App. 272.
By the agreed statement the following facts appear, and
upon them the rights of the parties depend On March 3,
1857, Congress passed an act, c. 99, 11 Stat. 195, granting to
Minnesota to aid in the building of certain lines of railroad
the alternate odd-numbered sections for six sections in width
on each side of the line of each road. The amount of this
grant was increased by the act of March 3, 1865, c. 105, 13
Stat. 526, to ten sections per mile. By appropriate state
legislation the defendant railroad company became one of the
beneficiaries of this grant. It duly constructed its road, and
the construction was accepted and approved. The lands in
controversy were within the limits and terms of the grant,
and were certified to the State nearly all in the years 1872,
1873, 1874 and 1875, though two tracts were not so certified
until the year 1879. At the time of the filing by the railroad
company of its map of definite location there were on the
records and files of the Land Office homestead entries or preemption filings upon these lands, regular in form and prma
fac e valid, some of them having been made intermediate the
time that the line of the railroad was surveyed, staked out
and marked on the face of the earth and the date of the filing of the map of definite location, and some having been
made prior to the first-named time. Proceedings were had
in the General Land Office, after proper notice by publication,
by which all these entries and filings were duly cancelled
prior to the certification of the lands to the State of Minnesota. The cancellations were generally on the ground of
abandonment, and from the time thereof up to the filing of
the agreed statement of facts,'July 26, 1893, none of the persons who had made such homestead entries or pre6mption
filings had ever made any claun to the lands, so far as shown
by the records of the land department. The railroad company
sold and conveyed the lands to parties who paid value and
bought.believing that the company's title was unimpeachable.
Further, after the patent from the State the lands were subjected to taxation, and the land company, the grantee from

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

465

Statement of the Case.

the railroad company of- most of these lands, alone paid over
$8000 of taxes while it held the title. It was not pretended
that the amount of lands certified for the benefit of the defendant railroad company (including therein the lands in controversy) exceeded the grant. In other words, it was not
claimed that the railroad company ever got more lands than
it was entitled to, but only that these particular tracts were
wrongly certified to it.
It was also admitted "that on, before and for a long time
after the certification of the lands in question to the State on
account of the railroad grants it was uniformly held and ruled
by the Secretary of the Interior and the other officers .of the
land department of the United States (a) That the line of a
railroad became and was definitely fixed so as to attach the
grant to the odd-numbered sections within the granted limits
as soon as surveyed, staked out and marked on the face of
the earth, and (b) That a homestead entry in all respects
regular and legal excepted the land covered thereby from the
operation of a railroad grant attaching during the existence
of. such entry, that the validity of a homestead entry was
open to question by the company, and if it was shown that
such entry was fraudulent o' irregular in its inception, or that
it had been abandoned before the right of the road attached,
it was held not to except the land from the grant, but the
burden of so showng was upon the company, and, in the
absence of such proof, the entry being valid upon its face, was
held to except the land from the grant, even though subsequently abandoned, and (e) That a pretmp'tion claim, which
may have existed to a tract of land at the time of the attachment of a railroad grant, if subsequently abandoned, and not
consummated, even though in all respects legal and bona fide,
-was held not to operate to defeat the grant,but, upon the
failure of such claim, the land covered thereby was held to
inure to the grant as of the date when such grant -became
effective, and (d) That the rights under the grant attached
to the lands in the granted and indemnity limits as of the
same date, and that selection was not deemed njcessary to
attach the grant to any specific tract within the-indemnity
voL. cLxv--.30

-

OCTOBER TER]Vf, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

limits, and (e) That the lands within the indemnity limits
were withdrawn at the same time as those within the primary
or granted limits, and (V) That within the common limits
of like character of two contemporaneous grants each was
held to be entitled to an undivided moiety of the lands within
such common limits, and (g) That in pursuance of and in
accordance with the aforesaid rules, the grants to and for each
and all of the land-grant railroad companies in the State of
Minnesota were, before, at and for a long time after the certification of the lands in question, administered."
The act of March 3, 1887, isfound printed below i
1 Be it

enacted by the Senate and House of Bepresentatives of the United

States of Ameria in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the Interior
be and is hereby authorized and directed to immediately adjust, an accordance with the decisions of the Supreme Court, each of the railroad land
grants made by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads and heretofore unadjusted.

SEc. 2. That if it shall appear, upon the completion of such adjustments
respectively, or sooner, that lands have been, from any cause, heretofore
erroneously certified or patented by the United States to or for the use or
benefit of any company claiming by, through or under grant from the
United States to aid in the construction of a railroad, it shall be the duty of
the Secretary of the Interior to thereupdn demand from such company a
relinquishment or reconveyance to the United States of all such lands,
whether within granted or indemnity limits; and if such company shall
neglect or fail to so reconvey such lands to the United States within ninety
days after the aforesaid demand shall have been made, it shall thereupon
be the duty of the Attorney General to commence and prosecute in the
proper tourts the necessary proceedings to cancel all patents, certification,
or other evidence of title heretofore issued for such lands, and to restore
the title thereof to the United States.
SEc. 3. That if, in the adjustment of said grants, it shall appear that the
homestead or preemption entry of any bona fide settler has been erroneously cancelled on account of.any railroad grant or the withdrawal of public
lands from market, such settler upon application shall be reinstated in all
his rights and allowed to perfect his entry by complying with the public
land laws. Provided, That he has not located another claim or made an
entry in lieu of the one so erroneously cancelled. And provided also, That he
did not voluntarily abandon said original entry And provided further, That
if any of said settlers do not renew their application to be reinstated, within
a reasonable time, to be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior, then all such
unclaimed lands shall be disposed of under the public land laws, with priority of right given to bona fide purchasers of said unclaimed lands, if any-

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

467

Statement of the Case.

After the passage of that act, and on March 3, 1891, Congress passed an act (26 Stat. 1093) containing this provision.
"That suits by the United States to vacate and annul any
patent heretofore issued shall only be brought within five
years from the passage of this act, and suits to vacate and
annul patents hereafter issued shall only be brought within
six years after the date of the issuance of such patents." And
and if there be no such purchasers, then to bona fide settlers residing
thereon.
SEc. 4. That as to all lands, except those mentioned in the foregoing
section, which have been so erroneously certified or patented as aforesaid,
and which have been sold by the grantee company to citizens of the United
States, or to persons who have declared their intention to become such
citizens, the person or persons so purchasing in good faith, his heirs or
assigns, shaU be entitled to the land so purchased, upon making proof of
the fact of such purchase at the proper land office, within such time and
under such rules as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior,
after the grants, respectively, shall have been adjusted; and patents of the
United States shall issue therefor, and shall relate back to the date of the
original certification or patenting, and the Secretary of the Interior, on
behalf of the United States, shall demand payment from the company
which has so disposed of such lands of an amount equal to the Government
price of similar lands; and in case of neglect or refusal of such company
to make payment, as hereafter specified, within ninety days after the demand shall have been made, the Attorney General shall cause suit or suits
to be brought aginst such company for the said amount: Provided, That
nothing in this act shall prevent any purchaser of lands erroneously withdrawn, certified or patented as aforesaid from recovering the purchase.
money therefor from the grantee company, less the amount paid to the
United States by such company as by this act required. Andprovided, That
a n'ortgage or pledge of said lands by the company shall not be considered
as a sale for the purpose of this act, nor shall this act be construed as -a
declaration of forfeiture of any portion of any land grant for conditions
broken, or as authorizing an entry. for the same, or as a waiver of any
rights that the United States may have on accountof any breach of said
conditions.
SEc. 5. That where any said.company shall have sold to citizens ol the
United States, or to persons who have declared their intention to become
such citizens, as a part of its grant, lands not conveyed to or for the use of
such company, said lands being the numbered sections prescribed in the
grant, and' being coterminous with the constructed parts of said road, and
where the lands so sold are for any reason excepted from the operation of
the grant to said company, it shall be lawtul for the bona fide purchaser
thereof from said company to make payment to the United States for said

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

on March 2, 1896i Congress passed a still further act, c. 39, 29
Stat. 42, which is also found in the foot-note.'
lands at the ordinary Government price for like lands, and thereupon patents shall issue therefor to the said bona fide purchaser, his heirs or assigns:
Provided, That all lands shall be excepted from the provisions of this section, which aE the date of such sales were in the bona fide occupation of
adverse claimants -under the preemption or homestead laws of the United
States, andi whose claims anct occupation have not since been voluntarily
abandoned, as to which excepted lands the said preemption and homestead
clainmnts shall be permitted to perfect their proofs and entries, and receive
patents therefor, Provided further, That this section shall not apply to
lands settled upon subsequent to the first day of December, eighteen hundred

and eighty-two, by persons claiming to enter the same under the settlement
laws of the United States, as to which lands the parties claiming the same
as aforesaid shall be entitled to prove up and enter as in other like cases.
SEO. 6. That where any such lands have been sold and conveyed, as the
property of any railroad company, for the state and county taxes thereon,
and the grant to such company has been thereafter forfeited, the purchaser
thereof shall have the prior right, which shall continue for one year from
the approval of this act, and no longer, to purchase such lands from the
United States at the Government price, and patents for such lands shall
thereupon issue: Provided,That said lands were not, previous to or at the
time of the taking effect of such grant, ie.the possession of or subject to
the right of any actual settler.
SEc. 7. That no more lands shall be certified or conveyed to any State
or to any corporation or individual, for the benefit of either of the companies herein mentioned, where it shall appear to the'Secretai'y of the Interior that such transfers may create an excess over the quantity of lands to
which uch State, corporation or individual woull be rightfully entitled.
I Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That suits by the United States to
vacate and annul any patent to lands heretofore erroneously issued unddr a
railroad or wagon road grant shall only be brought within five years from
the passage of this act, and suits to vacate and annul patents hereafter issued shall only be brought within six years after the date of the issuance
of such patents, and the limitation of section eight of chapter'five hundred
and sixty-one of the acts of the second session of the Fifty-first Congress
and amendments thereto is extended accordingly as to the patents herein
referred to. But no patent to any lands held by a bonafide purchaser shall
be vacated.or annulled, but the right and title of such purchaser is hereby
confirmed. Provided, That no suit shall be brought or maintained, nor shall
recovery be had for lands or the value thereof, that were certified or patented in lieu of other lands covered by a _rant which were lost or relinquishied by the grantee in consequence of the failure of the Government or
its -officers to withdraw the same from sale or entry.

UJNITED STATES v. WI'OXNA &c. RAILROAD.

469

Argument for Appellants.

Jr Solicitor General for appellants.

The certification, by the Secretary of the Interior, to the
SFC. 2. That if any person claiming to be a bona fide purchaser of any

lands erroneously patented or certified shall present his claim to the Secretary of the Interior prior to the institution of a suit to cancel a patent or
certification, and if it shall appear that he is a bona fide purchaser, the Secretary of the Interior shall request that suit be brought in such case against
the patentee, or the corporation, company,.person or association of persons for- whose benefit the certification was made, for the value of said
land, which In no case shall be more than the minimum Government price
thereof, and the title of such claimant shall stand confirmed. An adverse
decision by the Secretary of the Interior on the bonafides of such claimant
shall not be conclusive of his rights, and if such claimant, or one claiming
to be a bonafide purchaser, but who has not submitted his claim to the Secretary of the Interior, is made a party to such suit, and if found by the
court to be a bona fide purchaser, the court shil. decree a confirmation of
the title, and shall render a decree in behalf of the United States against
-he patente, corporation, company, person or association of persons for
whose benefittlie certification was made for the value of the land as hereinbefore provided. Any bonafide purchaser of lands patented or certified to
a railroad company, and who is not made a party to such suit, and who has
-not submitted his claim to the Secretary of the Interior, may establish his
right as such bonafide purchaser in any United States court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter, or at his option, as prescribed in sectionsthree aud four of chapter three hundred and seventy-six of the acts of the
second session of the Forty-ninth Congress.
SEC. 3. -That if at any'time prior to the 'institution of suit by the Attorney General to cancel any patent or certification of lands, erroneously
patented or certified a 'laim or statement is presented to the' Secretary of
the Interior by or on behalf of any person or persons, corporation- or corporations, claiming that such person or persons, corporation or corporations, is a bona fide purchaser or are bona fide purchasers of any patented
or certified land by deed or contract, or otherwvise, from or through the
original patentee or corporation to which patent or certification was issued,
no suit or action shall be brought to, cancel or annul the patent or certification for said land until such claim is investigated in said D'epartment of the
Interior and if it shall appear that such person or corporation is a bona
fide purchaser as aforesaid, or that such persons or corporations are such
bona fide purchasers, then no such suit sha be instituted and the title of
such claimant or claimants shall stand confirmed, but the Secretary of the
Interior shall request that suit be brought in such case against the patentee,
or the corporation, company, person or association of persons for whose
benefit the patent was issued or certification was made for the value of the
land as hereinbefore specified.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellants.

State of Minnesota of the lands described in the bill of complaint, for the benefit of the Winona and St. Peter Railroad
Company, after homestead and pre~mption rights had attached
to such lands and while the lands were still covered by these
entries, was an act not merely voidable, but absolutely void,
because control over and power of disposition of said lands
by the Interior Department had ceased. United States v
Stone, 2 Wall. 525, .Maxwell Land Grant ease, 121 U. S. 325,
Ifastings & Dakota Railroadv lWhitney, 132 U S. 357, WinLtney v Taylor, 158 U S. 85, "Veeks v Brzdgman, 159 U. S.
541, Burfennmng v Ohoago & St. Paul Railway, 163 U. S.
321, 323, where the court said "But it is also equally true
that when by act of Congress a tract of land has been reserved
from homestead and preemption, or dedicated to any special
purpose, proceedings in the land department in defiance of
such reservation or dedication, although culmnating in a
patent, transfer no title, and may be challenged in an action
at law In o.,her words, the action of the land department
cannot override the expressed will of Congress or convey away
public lands in disregard or defiance thereof."
The present suit (No. 321) is between the United States and
the Winona company, which holds the lands and refuses to
relinquish them. Its claims must stand or fall upon the acts
in its aid, and it is sufficient for this case to determine that the
lands in dispute were not included in the grants ii aid of the
Winona road. What becomes of them after they are recovered by the United States is a matter of no concern whatever to the Winona company United States v Southern
Pao? Railroad; 146 U. S. 570, 604.
The lands were by mistake certified in aid of the- Sioux
City road: The legal effect of that certification was, as this
court has determined, to convey them for The use and benefit
of the Winona company
The Secretary of the Interior, under whose direction this
suit was instituted, in proceeding to adjust the grants in aid
of the Winona road, found these lands in the possession of the
Winona company, claimed by it under its grants, and tht
company cannot shield itself from the operation of the adjust-

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

4:71

Argument for Appellants.

ment act and of its own granting acts, by insisting that these
lands fell, or were certified to the Sioux City road.
We submit that a proper construction of the granting acts
in aid of the two roads does not sustain the position t ken by
the Winona company
The courts have uniformly construed these grants strictly
against the grantee companies. They are never extended
beyond the scope of their express provisions, and wherever the
question as to reservations and exceptions has arisen, or there
appear conflicting claims between two or more companies, great
care has been exercised to exclude from grants lands which
have been reserved, appropriated or devoted to another purpose by every reasonable construction in favor of such reservation, on the theory that it has been the evident intention
and purpose of Congress, in all such grants, to limit them m
their operation to such lands only as the United States had
the clear and unquestioned right to convey at the time without disturbing existing relations or producing vexatious conflicts. Barlon.v Northern.Pac fi Railroad,145 U. S. 535,
543, United States v ZXissourz, Kansas & Texa" 1ailway,141'
U. S. 358, 368, 374, .Leavenworth, 1awrence c. Railroad v.
United States, 92 U S. 733, United States v Vorther Pacfto
Railroad,152 U. S. 284, 296.
If, then, at the time of the certification by the Secretary
of these lands to the State of Minnesota, the line of definite
location of the railroad had not been fixed by filing the maps
in' the office of the Secretary of the Interior, no title whatever
vested in the railroad, even 'under a grant by the governor
of Minnesota of such land. And if at the time of the filing
of such map homestead and preemption rights had already
attached, then these were excepted from such grant.
The power is lodged with the Secretary of the Interior to
ascertain and determine facts upon the existence of which
may depend the conveyance by him of title to public lands
of the United States. His determination of such facts is final
and conclusive. But it is going entirely too far to insist, as
is done here by counsel for appellee, that the determination
as to whether one is or is not a bona fide purchaser from or

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

under the United States is a fact which the Secretary of the
Interior may conclusively establish and determine.
Whether one is such a purchaser or not may -and in this
case in large measure does-depend upon the existence of
power in the Secretary to convey such lands. For one cannot
be a bonag
Jde purchaser unless he from whom he purchase
have power to sell.
The Secretary cannot be the judge of the existence and
extent of the powers which he assumes to exercise. In no
aspect of this case can it be claimed that the State of Minnesota, or the railroad company, or the land company, or the
purchasers from either, were purchasers without notice. As
we have already shown, the act itself gave notice of the reservation in favor of homestead and preemption claimants.
The records of the land offices, both local and genera], afforded
notice of the existence of the homestead and preemption
entries, and also of the official communication from Hendricks, Commissioner of the General Land Office, to the Governor of Minnesota, of July 21, 1857, that the title of the
Territory would not rest under the land grant until the maps
of definite location were filed in the office of the Secretary
of the Interior.
All these not only put subsequent purchasers upon inquiry,
but actually afforded full and complete notice of the outstanding equitable rights of the homestead and preinption entrymen.
We subinit that the question of bona fide purchasers cannot
properly arise in this case, brought under the act of March 3,
1887. The only object of proceedings under that act being to
have declared void the certification of lands under railroad
grants, if upon the facts proven the court should be satisfied
that the lands were certified without authority of law
MNr Tho ans TRIson for appellees.
Xr J A. Tamney and 2M' 1. X. Lamberton filed a brief
:r the Winona and St. Peter Land Company, appellee.
MR.

JusTIcE

REwERm,

opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

473

Opinion of the Court.

There are other matters disclosed in the record, such as the
claim at one time asserted by the St. Paul and Sioux City
Railroad Company to these lands or a part of them, the litigation between the two companies, and the final decision by
this court, also certain transactions between the railroad company and a land company and the litigation resulting therefrom, together with a series of conveyances by the railroad
and the land company of the lands. But in view of the conclusions to which we have come upon the facts stated, we deem
it unnecessary to cumber the record with any detailed mention
of those matters.
These facts appear* First. The railroad company has constructed its road and has earned the land grant. Second. It
has received no more land than Congress by the act referred
to proposed to grant to aid in the construction of the road.
T ird. At the time that the lands were certified to the
State for its benefit they were not subject to any homestead
or preemption entry They were free from- all claims other
than those of the railroad company -itself,and were, except as
subject to such claims, in the fullest sense public lands and
within the jurisdiction of the land department. Fourth. Up
to March 2, 1885 (when Eansas Pac?to Railway Company v
.Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, was decided by this court), the uniform ruling of the land department had been that the title to
railroad lands became settled -atthe time the line of the railroad was surveyed, staked out and marked on the face of the
earth, and not at the time of the filing of the map of definite
location in the land department, that a-homestead entry,
though apparently regular and valid, was open to question by
the railroad company, ant it shown to have been fraudulent
or irregular in inception, or that it had -been abandoned before
the right of the company attached, was held not to except the
land from the grant, and also that a preemption claim existing at the time of the attaching of a railroad grant, if subsequently abandoned and not consummated -- even though in
all respects legal and bona.lde - did not defeat the grant, but
upon the failure of such claim the land covered thereby inured
to the granteas of the date when it became effective. Fifth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Under such rules of construction the land in controversy was
all properly certified to the State for the benefit of the railroad company Sizth. The lands were sold and conveyed'
by the. railroad company to parties who paid full value and
bought in good faith, believing the title which the railroad
company assumed to convey to be perfect.
It is in the light of these facts that the scope and effect of
the legislation of Congress is to be considered and determined.
There is certainly much of equity in the contention of the
appellees. The railroad company has constructed the road, in
aid of whose construction Congress made this grant. Even
though retaining all these tracts, it has failed to receive as
large an amount of land as Congress proposed to give. With
full performance on its side, it has not received all that Congress proffered. Of course, in entering upon its work it took
all the chances of failure of title of any particular tract, and
therefore has no legal ground of complaint, and yet it may with
reason say that, though it must be content with such lands as
the Government at the time of the filing of the map of definite
location could rightfully convey, it ought not to be deprived
of any which the Government did con.vey, and could convey
without wrong to any one, and which were embraczd in the
description of the lands which Congress proposed to give. No
individual is wronged by permitting this certification to stand,
no preemptor or person seeking to enter any tract as a homestead has been deprived of his rights or privileges by virtue of
this certification. The land was free from all individual claims.
It was within the absolute control of Congress. It belonged
to the Government, and it is only in the assertion of a technical rule of construing land grants, first declared by this court
long after the certification, that the Government now asks to
haxe that set aside and the title to these lands restored. No
fraud or wrong is imputable to the company No effort to
secure a misconstruction by the land department, but only an
acceptance of the then settled rule of construction and th,
taking of the lands which, under such construction, it was
entitled to receive. Conceding that that construction was
erroneous, yet it was one made by the officers of the department

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &o. RAILROAD.

475

Opinion of the Court.

charged with the duty of administering the grant and determining what lands did and.what did not pass, the only tribunal to
which the company could then apply, and upon whose rulings
it was bound to act. Many years have passed since the certification, and since the company in reliance upon the title it
believed it had acquired has disposed of the lands, and other
parties have become interested in and have dealt with the lands
as private property Contracts have been entered into, suits
even to this court-and decrees and
maintained -carried
judgments entered and rendered in full reliance upon the title
supposed to have been conveyed. Surely after such a lapse of
time, and after so many transactions in and in respect to these
lands; the appellees are justified in saying that they have large
claims upon the equitable consideration of the courts.
The first section of the act of 1887 directs the Secretary of
the Interior to adjust all railroad land grants in accordance
with the decisions of this court, and the second, that upon
such adjustment the Attorney General shall commence the
proper proceedings to cancel all patents, certification or other
evidences of title erroneously issued. If these two sections
were all the legislation of Congress bearing upon the subject
it might be difficult to sustain the conclusions of the lower
courts, or to deny to the Government the relief sought by this
bill, for, by the construction placed upon such railroad grants
in .Kansa8Paqflic Railway Company v. Dunmeyer, supra, and
other cases, these lands did not pass under the -railroad grant
because at the time of the filing of the map of definite location they were on the records of the department claimed
under homestead and pre~mption entries. The lapse of time
would be no bar, for statutes of limitation cannot be invoked
against the Government.
But these sections are not all the legislation. Congress
evidently recognized the fact that notwithstanding any error
in certification or patent there might be rights which equitably deserved protection, and that it would not be fitting for
the Government to iiisist upon the letter of the law in disregard of such equitable rights. In the first place, It has distinctly recognized the fact that when there are no adverse

OCTOBER TERM, 189&.
Opimon of the Court.

individual rights, and only the claims of the Government and
of the present holder of the title to be considered, it.is fitting
that a time should come when no mere errors or irregularities
on the part of the officers of the land department should be
open for consideration. In other words, it has recognized
that, as against itself in respect to these land transactions, it is
right that 'there should be a statute of limitations, that when
its proper officers, acting in the ordinary course of their duties,
have conveyed away lands- which belonged to the Government, such conveyances should, after the lapse of a prescribed
tine, be conclusive against the Government, and this notwithstanding any errors, irregularities or improper action of its
officers therein.
Thus, in the act of 1891, it provided that suits to vacate
and annul patents theretofore issued should only be brought
within five years, and that as to patents thereafter to be issued
such-suits should only be brought within six years after the
date of issue. Under the benign influence of this statute
it would matter not what the mistake or error of the land
'department was, what the frauds and misrepresentations of
the patentee were, the patent would become conclusive ag a
transfer of the title, providing only that thp land was public
land ofthe United States and open to sale and conveyance
through the land department. The act of 1896 extended the
time for the bringing of suits for patents theretofore issued for
-five years from the passage of that act. It is true that these
appellees cannot avail themselves of these limitations because
this suit was commenced before, the expiration of the time prescribed, and we only refer to them as showing the purpose of
'Congress to uphold titles arising under certification or patent
'by providing that after a certain time the Government, the
'grantor. therein, should not be heard to questionthem.
But limitation was not the only protection g(iven. The act
of 1896, which extended the period of limitation, folowed
'such extention with this provision "But no patent to any
lands held by a bonaflde purchaser shall be vacated or annulled,
'but the right and title of such purchaser is hereby confirmed."
Jt is true this act was passed after the commencement of this

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

477

Opinion of the Court.

suit- indeed, after the decision by the Court of Appealsbut it is none the less an act to be considered. There can be
no question of the power of Congress to terminate, by appropriate legislation, any suit brought to assert simply the rights
of the Government. This suit was instituted by the Attorney
General in obedience to the direct command of Congress, as
expressed in the act of 1887, and Congress could at any time
prior to the final decree in this court direct the withdrawal
of such suit, and it accomplishes practically the same result
when, by legislation within the unquestioned scope of its
powers, it confirms in the defendants the title to the property
which it was the purpose of the suit to recover. So, if this
act of 1896, taken by itself alone, or in conjunction with preceding legislation, operates to confirm the title apparently
conveyed by'the certification to the State for the benefit of
the railroad *company, that necessarily terminates this suit
adversely to the Government, and compels an affirmance ofthe decisions of the lower courts without the necessity of any
inquiry into the reasons advanced by those courts for theirconclusions. We are of the opinion that Congress intended
by the sentence we have quoted frora the act of 1896 to confirm the title which in this case passed by certification to the
State. It not only declares that no patents to any lands held
by a bonaftde purchaser shall be vacated or annulled, but it
confirms the right and title of such purchasers. Given a bona
ide purchaser, his right and title is confirmed, and no suit can
be maintained at the instance of the Government to disturb it.
It is earnestly contended by the Government that the prosent holders of the title are not "bonajide purchasers", that
that term has a fixed and well-defined meaning, as announced in
the frequent decisions of this and other courts, that, as said in 2
Pom. Eq. Jur. ยง 745, "the essential elements which constitute
a bona fide purchaser are, therefore, three -a valuable consideration, the absence of notice, and presence of good faith",
United States v. Cali/..oman &c. Land Company, 148 U S. 31,
42, that while two of these essential elements may be found,
to wit, a valuable considerati6n and the presence of good faith,
the third, the absence of notice, is lacking, that all men are-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

.conclusivelv presumed to know the law, and that as the true
rule of construction in reference to these grants was laid down
by this court, the purchasers were bound to know such true
rule, that the records of the land office disclosed the existence of these homestead entries and preemption filings, and,
therefore, they who purchased from the railroad company
knew, or at least were chargeable with knowledge, of the fact
that those lands could not rightfully have been certified to
the railroad company but were excepted from the terms of
grant, and in fact remained the property of the Government.
It is further insisted that, as Congress in this statute used this
well understood expression, it intended only the protection of
such parties as came within the scope of this settled meaning.
It is said that the only cases to be covered by this provision
were those in which the State or the railroad company by
presentation to the land office, before the filing of the map of
definite location, of a forged relinquishment by the pretmptor,
or one having made a homestead entry, or by some other
fraudulent representations, secured a certification or patent
to the tracts, and thereafter sold and conveyed to one who
purchased in ignorance of the fraud.
We are unable to agree with this contention of counsel,
for several reasons In the first place, the situation as it was
known to exist makes against any such narrow construction.
While instances of such fraudulent conduct on the part of the
State to which the lands were certified, or the company to
which the lands were patented, might exist, yet in the nature
of things they would be few and hardly worth the special
notice of Congress, while on the other hand the fact that there
had been a difference between the land department and the
courts, one construction obtaining in the former prior to the
decisions by the latter, and the further, fact that by this difference of construction many tracts had been erroneously certified or patented, must have been well known to Congress, and
naturally therefore a subject for its legislation. Further, there
was no need of any legislation to protect a "bona ftde purchaser." This had been settleid by repeated decisions of this
.court. United State8 v. Burlington f .&fi&sours
River Rail-

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

479

Opinion of the Court.

road fVomyany, 98 U S. 334, 342, Colorado Coal Company
v Jnted States, 123 U. S. 307, 313- reaffirmed in United
States v Californsa &c. Land Company, 148 U. S. 31, 41.
For in each of those cases it was decided that, although %
patent was fraudulently and wrongfully obtained from the
Government, if the land conveyed was within the jurisdiction
of the land department, the title of a bonafide purchaser from
the patentee could not be disturbed by the Government, so
that this provision was absolutely unnecessary if that which is
now clained by counsel for the Government is all that was
intended by Congress. We do not mean to assert tnat because
legislation to cover such a contingency was unnecessary, therefore the language used by Congress necessarily implies something other and different, because of course it may have been
that Congress intended nothing but a simple declaration of
the law as it was known to exist. At the same time the fact,
that under one construction it was needless, raises a presumption that something more was intended, and that Congress
had in view the protection of other parties than were already
protected by general law
But we need not rest on these inferences and presumptions.
Other provisions of the acts of 1887 and 1896 make clear the
intent of Congress. Section 3 of the act of 1887 provides
that if the homestead or pre~mption entry of any bonafide
settler has been erroneously cancelled on account of any railroad grant it may be reinstated, provided he has not located
another claim or made gin entry in lieu of the one so cancelled,
and also did not voluntarily abandon such entry By this section Congress provided for a reinstating of the title of one
deprived thereof by an erroneous ruling of the land departinent, but, at the same time, limited the right of reinstating
to cases in which the original entryman had not voluntarily
abandoned his entry, or had not since that time made a new
entry In other words, it was limiting the restoration of the
title of the original entryman to cases in which he had a continuing and present equitable right to recognition. As to all
other cases, Congress reserved the determination of the equities between the Government, the railroad company and pur-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

chasers from the latter, and m subsequent sections it made.
.provision for the adjustment of such equities.
Section 4 of the same act, expressly referring to all other
lands erroneously certified or patented to any railroad company, provides that citizens who had purchased such lands.
in good faith should be entitled to the lands so purchased and
to patents therefor issuing directly from the United States,
and that the only remedy of the Government should be an
action against the railroad company for the Government price
of similar lands. It will be observed that this protection is
not granted to simply bona fide purchasers (using that term
in the technical sense), but to those who have one of the
elements declared" to be essential to a bona flde .purchaser, to
wit, good' faith. It matters not what constructive notice may
be chargeable to such a purchaser ifin actual ignorance of
any defect in the railroad company's title and in reliance
upon the action of the Government in the apparent transfer
of title -by certification or patent, he has made an honest
purchase of the lands. The plain intent of this section is to
secure him the lands, and to reinforce his defective title by
a direct patent from the United States, and to leave to the
Government a simple claim for money against the railroad
company It will be observed that the technical 'term "bona
fide purchaser" is not found in this section, and while it is.
provided that a mortgage or pledge shall not be considered
a sale so as to entitle the mortgagee or pledgee to the benfit.
of the act, it does secure to every one who in good faith has
made an absolute purchase from a railroad company protection to his title irrespective of any errors or mistakes in the
certification or patent.
Section 5 of the same act applies to cases in which no,
certificataon 'or patent has issued, and yet the lands sold by
the railr6ad, company are the numbered sections prescribed
in'its grant and coterminous with the constructed portions of
itg road, and it is there provided that where the lands so sold
by the company "are for any reason excepted from the operatiorf of 'the grant to said company," the purchaser may obtain
title-directly from the Government by paying to it the ordinary

UNITED STATES v. WINONA &c. RAILROAD.

481

Opinion of the Court.

Government price of such lands. It is true the term used
here is " bo n afde purchaser," but it is a bona fide purchaser
from the company, and the description given of the lands, as
not conveyed and "for any rea-son excepted from the operation of the grant," indicates that the fact of notice of defect
of title was not to be considered fatal to the right. Congress
attempted to protect an hpnest transaction between a purchaser and a railroad company, even in the absence of a certification or patent. These being the provisions of the act of
1887, the act of 1896, confirming the right and title of a bona
fide .purchaser, and providing that the patent to his lands
should not be vacated or annulled, must be held to include
one who, if not in the fullest sense a "bona fde purchaser,"
has nevertheless purchased in good faith from the railroad
company
We have been referred in the arguments of this and other
cases to the debates in Congress, and to the reports of the
committees of the two houses to whom the bills were referred
as confirmatory of the conclusions we have reached, but it is
unnecessary to consider any of the evidence derived from these
sources, if, indeed, it is open to consideration, for the language
of the two acts is clear, and fully discloses the intent of Congress. Our conclusion is that these acts operate to confirm
the title to every purchaser from a railroad company of lands
certified or patented to or for its benefit, notwithstanding any
mere errors or irregularities in the proceedings of the land
department, and notwithstanding the fact that the lands so
certified or patented were, by the true construction of the land
grants, although within the limits of the grants, excepted from
their operation, providing that he purchased in good faith,
paid value for the lands, and providing, also, that the lands
were public lands in the statutory sense of the term, and free
from individual or other claims.
If it be suggested that under the scope of these acts, though
the suit must fail so far as it is one to set aside and cancel the
certification, it may vet be maintained against the defendant
railroad company for the value of the lands so erroneously
certified, and that the decree should be modified to this extent,
VOL. CLXV-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

it is sufficient to say that, first, the Government has not asked
any such decree, second, that it may be doubtful whether for
the mere purpose of recovering money an action at law must
not be the remedy pursued, but lastly, and chiefly, that it
does not appear from this record either that the railroad company received an excess of lands or has even received (these
lands included) the full quantity of lands promised in the
grant, and further, that it does not appear that there were
not within the granted or indemnity limits lands which the
company might have rightfully received but for this erroneous
certification. It will hardly be contended that, if, simply
through a mistake of the land department, these lands were
certified when at the time other lands were open to certification which could. rightfully have been certified and which have
since been disposed of by the Government to other parties, so
that there is now no way of filling the grant, the Government
can nevertheless recover the value of the lands so erroneously
certified. In other words, the mistake of the officers of the
Government cannot .be both potent to prevent the railroad
company obtaining its full quota of lands, and at the same
time potent to enable the Government to recover from the
company the value of lands erroneously certified. Our conclusion, therefore, is that upon the record as it is presented,
the decree of the Court of Appeals was right, and it is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES V. UNION PAcIFIc RAILWAY COMPANY.

Appeal

from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, No. 319,
argued December 1,2,1896. UNITED STATES V.ST. PAUL AND SIoux
CITY RAILROAD ComPAlY,

No. 322, argued with No. 321, No-

vember 30 and December 1, 1896.
MR. JUSTIcE BREvER.

The fats in these cases are different from

the facts in the case just decided. But the principles announced
in the foregoing opinion are conclusive of the rights of the parties
herein, and so, without any statement in detail of the facts, and for
the reasons given in that opinion, the decrees in these cases will be
Affimed.

WINONA &c. RAILROAD v. 'UNITED STATES.

483

Statement of the Case.

3h" Solicitor General for appellants in both cases.
Mr John R? Dillon (with whom were, Mr Harry Hubbard, Mr
John 3.1. Dillon and Mr T .F..Garver on his brief), for appellees
in No. 319..
Mr. Thomas Wilson for appellees in No. 322.

WINONA AND ST. PETER RAILROAD
v. UNITED STATES.

COMPANY

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CiROUIT.
No. 602. Submitted December 1, 1896.- Decided February 15, 189T,
Anterior to any claim-of right under its grant by the Winona and St. Peter
Railroad Company, by virtue either of filing its map of definite location
or of surveying and staking itsline upon the ground, a preEmption"filing
was placed upon the land. This filing was never cancelled. The claimant
entered Into posses!ion and'continued so either personally or through a
tenant until after the construction of the railroad, and until after the
railroad company had conveyed the land to a land company, and until an
action of ejeetment was brought by the land company. The court below
was of opinion, in which this court concurs, that the land company could
not be considered a purchaser in good faith from the railroad company
that it took its conveyance with notice, from possession, of all the rights
and the claims of the party so in possession, that it therefore did not
bring itself within the protecting clauses of the act of March 3, 1887
c. 376, 24 Stat. 556, and that there was nothing to stay the right of the
Government to have the certification, so erroneously issued, cancelled.
'This case distinguished from United States v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad
Company, ante, 463.

Tins was a -bill' filed by the United States in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
against. the Winona and St. Peter Railroad Company, the
Winona and St. Peter Land Company, and Thomas Marshall,
Jr. The suit was one to set aside the certification of a patent
made to the State of Minnesota for the benefit of the defendant railroad company of the northeast quarter of section 35,

