CASES ADJUDGED
IN TIP

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.

ST. LOUIS AND SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MATHEWS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT
No. 105.

OF

THE STATE OF

Argued and submitted November 4, 1S96. -Decided

MISSOURI.

January 4, 1697.

A statute of a State, whi'h'enacts that every railroad corporation, owning
or operating a railroad in the-State, shall be responsible in damages to
the owner of any property injured or destroyed by fire communicated,
directly or indirectly, by locomotive engines in use upon.its railroad, and
which provides that it shall have an insurable interest in the property
upon the route of its railroad, and may procure insurance thereon in its
own behalf; does not violate the Constitution of the United States, as
depriving the railroad company of its property without due process of
law, or as denying to it the equal protection of the laws, or as impairing
the obligation of the contract made between the State and the company
by its Incorporation under general laws imposing no such liability.

THIS was an actiin brought in an inferior court of the State
of Missouri, by an owner of land in St. Louis county, against
a railroad corporation organized under the laws of the State,
and owning and operating with locomotive engines a line of
railway adjoining the plaintiff's land, to recover damages for
the destruction of the plaintiff's (welling-house, barn, out
VOL. CLXV-i

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

buildings, shrubbery and personal property upon that land, by
fire communicated from one of those engines on August 9,
1887.
The petition contained two counts, the first of which alleged
negligence on the part of the defendant, and the second did
not, but was founded on the statute of Missouri of March 31,
1887, by which "each railroad corporation, ownihg or operating a railroad in this State, shall be responsible in damages to
every person and corporatin whose property may be injured
or destroyed by fire communicated, directly or indirectly, by
locomotive engines in use upon the railroad owned or operated
by such railroad corporation, and each such railroad corporation shall have an insurable interest in the property upon the
route of the railroad owned or operated by it, and may procure insurance thereon in its own behalf, for its protection
against such damages." Missouri Laws of 1887, p. 101, Rev
Stat. of 1889, § 2615.
The answer, among other defences, set up that the statute
violated the Constitution of the United States, by depriving
the defendant of its property without due process of law, and
by denying to it the equal protection of the laws, and by impairing the obligation of the contract made between it and
the State, "by the terms and provisions of which it was lmpliedly agreed that said defendant- ight and could use fire
for the purpose of generating steam to propel said locomotive
engines and cars attached thereto, and be responsible only for
the negligent and careless use thereof."
The defendant was incorporated September 10, 1875, under
the general laws of the State, which authorized railroad cor•porations to be formed by voluntary articles of association
filed in the office ,of the secretary of State, and to lay out
and construct their railroad, to take lands for the purpose,
and "to take and convey persons and property on their railroad by the power or force of steam, or of animals, or by any
mechanical power, and to receive compensation therefor."
Missouri Gen. Stat. of 1865, c. 63, §§ 1, 2, Rev Stat. of 18S9,

§§ 2542, 2543.
At the trial, the plaintiff introduced evidence tending to

ST.

tOUIS & SAX FRAKfOISCO IR'Y v. 'MATHEWS.

3

Argument for Flaintiff in Error.

support the allegations of the petition, and the court, at his
request, instructed the jury that "if they believe from the evidence that during the month of August, 1887, plaintiff was
the owner of the land in the petition described, and defendant was the owner or operating a railroad adjoining said land,
having locomotive engines in use upon said road, and that on
August 9, 1887, fire was communicated from a locomotive
engine, then in use upon the railroad owned or operated by
defendant, to plaintiff's property on his said land, and thereby
the buildings and other property in the petition mentioned,
or any of it, were destroyed, then the jury will. find for the
plaintiff."
The court refused to give to the jury the following instruction requested by the defendant "Though the jury may
believe from the evidence that fire was communicited from a
locomotive engine ir use on defendant's railroad to plaintiff's
property, as charged in the second count of plaintiff's petition,
yet that fact is only prma facte evidence of negligence on
-the part of defendant, and unless the jury'believe from the
whole evidence in the case that said fire was either negligently
set out by defendant, or was communicated to plaintiff's property by reason of defendant's negligence, the plaintiff cannot
recover."
The defendant excepted to the instruction given, as well as
to the refusal to instruct as requested, and, after verdict and
judgment for the plaintiff, appealed to the Supreme Court of
the State, which held the statute to be constitutional, and
affirmed the judgment. 121 Missouri, 298. The defendant
hued out this writ of error.
.Mr Daid D Duncan, (with whom were Mr John F
Dillon and 0&lfrinelow F Pierce on. his brief,) for plaintiff
inerror:.
.Afr L. F Parker filed a brief for plaintiff in error in
which the following citations were inade Fletcher v.Peck,
(6Cranch, 87, .DartmouthCollege v Woodwar'l, 4 Wheat. 51S,
ron Roffnan v Qumney, 4 Wall. 535, Green v Beddle, 8

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Wheat. 1, Planters' Bank v. ShaTp, 6 How 301, Commonwealth v. Erie d Western Transp. Co., 107 Penn. St. 112,
Pennsylvama Railroad v. Baltimore & Ohw Railroad, 60
Maryland, 263, Bank of the RepubZic v. Hamilton, 21 Illinois,
53, Payne v. Baldwin, 3 Sm. & Marsh. 661, Edwards v.
Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595 ;-Howard v. Bugbee, 24 How. 461,
Meriwether v Garrett, 102 U. S. 472, -Bronson v Einzie,
1 How 311, 2lJcIracken v. Hayward,2 How 608, Lousana
v. .New Orleans, 102 U. S. 203, .Yw Orleans Gas Co. v.
Louisiana -Light Co., 115 U. S. 650,. N7iew Orleans WFater
Works v. Rvers, 115 U. S.674, People v. Jackson & Mich.zgan Plank Road Co., 9 Michigan, 285, Sloan v. Pacific
Railroad, 61 M issouri, 24, Smith, v Hannibal &f St. Joseph,
Railroad, 37 Missouri, 287, Burroughs v. Housatontc Railroad, 15 Connecticut, 124, Moshter v. Utica & Schenectady
Railroad,8 Barb. 477, Rood v. Nl7-Y & Erie Railroad,18
Barb. 80, JKnoop v. Piqzua Branch, Bank of Ow,16 How
369, -Dodge v. Wfoolsey, 18 How 331, Thomas v Railroad
Co., 101 U. S.71, Ashbuty Railway &c. Co. v. Riche, L. R.
7 H. L. Cas. 653, Bailey v. Phil., Vilnngton &c. Railroad,
4 Harr. (Del.) 389, Eake View v. Rose Hill Cemetery, 70 Illinois, 191, Ohio & Mississi.ppi Railroadv Lackey, 78 Illinois,
55, Thorve v. Rutland & BurlingtonRailroad, 27 Vermont,
140; Benson v NAew York, 10 Barb. 223, Small v. Chwago,
Rock Island&c. Railroad,50 Iowa, 338, Vincennes Uneversity
v Indiana,14 How 268, Scotland County v. Missouri, Iowa
&c. Railroad,65 Missouri, 123, State v. CGreer, 78 Missouri,
188, Pearson v Portland,69 laine, 278, State v. Hayes, 81
Missouri, 574, Clcago, St. Louis &c. Railway v Moss, 60
Mississippi, 641, Slaughter House cases, 16 Wall. 36, Rail-road Tax cases, 13 Fed. Rep. 722, Santa Clara County v.
Southern Pac-iic Railroad,118 U. S.394, Ohio & Mississipp
Railroad v. Lackey, 78 Illinois, 55, -Kahle v. lobein, 30 Mo.

App. 472, Zeigler v

South

& ilrorth Alabama Railroad,58

Alabama, 594, Miller v Martin, 16 Missouri, 508, Catron v.
Nichols, 81 Missouri, 80, Tally's -Heirsv ifennedy, 2 Yerg.
554, Chapman v. Atlantic 6 St. Lawrence Railroad, 37
Maine, 92, Ross v Boston & Worcester Railroad,6 Allen, 87.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R'Y v. MATHEWS.

5

Opinion of the Court.

.M' Percy Wferner and A.i GarlandPollard,for defendant
in error, submitted on their brief.
MR. JuSTiCE, GuAY, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question presented by the record, of which this
court has jurisdiction, is whether thereis anything inconsistent
with the Constitution of -the United States in the statute of
Missouri of March 31, 1887, by which: every railroad corporation owning or operating a railroad in the State is made responsible in damages for property of any person injured or
destroyed by fire communicated by its locomotive engines;
and is declared to have an insurable interest in property along
its route, and authorized to insure such property, for its protection against such damages.
It has been strenuously argued, in behalf of the plaintiff in
error, that this statute is an arbitrary, unreasonable and unconstitutional exercise of legislative power, imposing an absolute and onerous liability for the consequences of doing a
lawful act, and of conducting a lawful business in a lawful
and careful manner, and that the statute violates the' Constitution of the United States, by deprlving the railroad company
of its property without due process of law, by denying to it
the equal protection of the laws, and by impairing the obligation of the contract previously made between it and the State
by its incorporation under general laws authorizing it to convey passengers and freight over its railroad by the use of locomotive engines.
The argument that this statute is in excess of the power of
the legislature may be the most satisfactorily met by first tracing the history of the law regarding the liability of persons
for fire originating on their own premises and spreading to
the property of others.
At common law, every man appears to have been obliged,
by the custom of the realm, to keep h),s fire safe so that it
should not injure his neighbor, and to have been E .ble to an
action if .a fire, lighted in his own house, or upon his land, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the act of himself, or of his servants or guests, burned the
house or property of his neighbor, unless its spreading to his
neighbor's property was caused by a violent tempest or other
inevitable accident which he could not have foreseen. Thirning, C. J., and Markham, J., in Beaulieu v. Finglam, Yearbook 2 H. IV, 18, Anon., Cro. Eliz. 10, 1 Rol. Ab. 1, Action
sur Case, B, 1 D'Anvers Ab., Actions, B, Turberville v.
Stamp, (1698) Comyns, 32, S. C., 1 Salk. 13, Holt, 9, 1 Ld.
Raym. 264, 12 Mod. 152, Com. Dig., Action upon the Case
for Negligence, A, 6, 1 Vin. Ab. 215, 216, 1 Bac. Ab.,
Action on the Case, F, (Amer. ed. 1852) p. 122, Canterbury
v. Attorney General 1 Phil. Ch. 306, 316-319, .Filliter v
Plphpyard, 11 Q. B. 347, 354, Furlong v Carroll,7 Ontario
App. 145, 159.
The common law liability in case of ordinary accident,
without proof of negligence, was ]mpliedly recognized in the
statute of Anne, passed within ten years after the decision in
Turberville v Stamp, above cited, and providing that "no
action, suit or process whatsoever shall be had, maintained or
prosecuted against any person in whose house or chamber any
fire shall accidentally begin, or any recompense be made by
such person for any damage suffered or occasioned thereby;
any law or usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding."
Stats. 6 Anne, (1707) c. 31 [58], §7, 8 Statutes of the Realm,
795, 10 Anne, (1711) c. 14 [24], § 1, 9 Statutes of the Realm,
684. By the statute of 14 Geo. III, (1774) c. 78, § 86, the
statute of Anne was extended to "any person in whose house,
chamber, stable, barn or other building, or on whose estate,
any fire shall accidentally begin."
In modern times in England, the strict rule of the common
law as to civil liability in damages for fire originating on one's
own land, and spreading to property of another, has been
recognized as still existing, except so far as clearly altered by
statute.
In The Eing v. Pease, (1832) 4 B. & Ad. 30, .C., 1 Kev
& Man. 690, a corporation, expressly authorized by act of Parliament to establish a railway between certain points, and to
use locomotive engines thereon, was held not to be liable to

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RIY v. MATHEWS.

7

Opinion of the Court

an indictment for a nuisance by frightening horses travelling
upon a highway parallel to the railroad.
In Aldridge.v Great Western Railway, (1841) 3 Man. &
Gr. 515, S. C., Scott N. R. 156, whbiel was an action against
a railway corporation created by similar acts, of Parliament,
to recover damages for property destroyed by fire kindled by
sparks from a locomotive engine, it was argued for the plaintiff that by the common law a civil action for damages could
be sustained by proof of injury, without evidence of negligence.
See Broom's Legal Maxims, (5th ed.) 366, 367,
Holmes on Common Law, 85-88. But the court held that
the corporation could not be held liable, unless negligent. In
Ptgot v..Eastern Counties Railway, (1846) 3 0. B. 229, the same
rule was recognized, although the fact of the property having
been fired by sparks from the engine was held sufficient proof
of negligence.
In the course of the argument in .Blyth v. Brmsngham
TFater'wor/ea, (1856). 11 Exch. 781, 783, Baron Martin said. "I
held, in a case tried at Liverpool in 1853, that, if locomotives
are sent through the country emitting sparks, the persons
doing so incur all the responsibilities of insurers, that they
were liable for all the consequences."
In. Vaughan v. Taf Vale Railway, (1858) 3 H. & N. 743,
the Court of Exchequer held that a railway company, expressly authorized by its charter to use locomotive engines on
its railway, was responsible for damages caused to property
by fire communicated from such engines, although it had
taken every precaution in its power to prevent the injury
But the judgment was reversed in the Exchequer Chamber,
and Lord Chief Justice Cockburn said "Although it may be
true, that if a person keeps an animal of known dangerous
propensities, or a ilnperous instrument* he will be responsible
to those who are thereby injured, independently of any negligence in the mode of dealing with the animal, or using the
instrument, yet when the legislature has sanctioned and
authorized the use of a particular thing, and it is used for the
purpose for which it was authorized, and every preca4tlon has
been used to prevent injury, the sanction of the legislature

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

carries with it this consequence, that if damage results- from
the use of such thing independently of negligence, the party
using it is not responsible." 5 H. & 1N. (1860) 679, 685.
The final decision in that case has since been considered in
England as establishing that a railway company which by
act of Parliament has been expressly authorized to use locomotive engines upon its railway, without being declared to be
responsible for fires communicated from those engines, is not,
in the absence of negligence on its part, liable for damages
remantle v Nforthwe8tern Railway,
caused by such fires.
(1861) 10 C. B. (N. S.) 89, Rammermn tl c. Railway v
Brand, (1869) L. R..4 H. L. 171, Smith v. London & Southwestern Railway, (1870) L. IR. 6 C. P 14, 21, 2t2, London,
Bnghton. & Southcoast Railway v Truman, (1885) 11 App.
Cas. 45.
On the other hand, a railway company, chartered by act
of Parliament in 1832 to make and maintain a "railway or
tramroad for 'the passage of wagons, engines and other carriages" for the purpose of conveying coals and other minerals,
and neither expressly authorized nor prohibited to use locomotive engines, was held liable for damages by sparks from such
an engine although proved -to have taken all reasonable pre.cautions to ptevent the emission of sparks, Mr. Justice Blackburn saying that "the defendants were using a locomotive
engine with-no express parliamentary powers making lawful
that use, and they are therefore at, common law bound to
keep the engines from doing injury, and if the sparks escape
land cause damage, the defendants are liable for the consequences, though no actual negligence be shown on their part",
and that, in order to bring them within the decision in
Vatughan. v. Taft Vale Railway, above cited, "it is essential
to show that their act authorized the use of locomotive
engines, and it is not enough to show that it authorized the
making and using of a railway, and that there are no words,
either prohibiting the-use of locomotives, or showing that the
legislature meant to prohibit the use." Jones v. 1estimog
Railway, (1868) L. R. 3 .Q.B. 733, 736,. 737.
So wvhere acts of Parliament, authorizing and regulating

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R'Y v. MATHEWS.

9

Opimon of the Court.

the use of locomotive engines on turnpike and other roads,
provided that nothing in the acts contained should be construed as authorizing any person to use upon the highway a
locomotive engine so constructed or used as to cause a public
or private nuisance, and that every person so using such an
engine should be liable to an actiofi for such use, when such
an action could have been maintained before the passage of
the acts; the Court of Appeal held that a man who used upon
a public highway a locomotive engine constructed in conformity with the provisions of the acts, and managed and conducted with all reasonable care and without negligence, was
liable for a destruction of property on land adjoining the highway by sparks proceeding from his engine, Lord Justice
Bramwell saying "The passing of the engine along the road
is confessedly dangerous, inasmuch as sparks cannot be prevented from flying from it. It is conceded that at common
law an action may be maintained for the injury suffered by
the plaintiffs. The Locomotive Acts are relied upon as affording a defence, but, instead of helping the defendant, they
show not only that an-action would have been maintainable
at common law, but also that the right to sue for an injury is
carefully preserved. It is just and reasonable that if a per, on uses a dangerous machine, he should pay for the damage
which it occasions, if the reward which he gains for the use
of the machine will not pay for the damage, it is mischievous
to the public and ought to be suppressed, for the loss ought
not to be borne by the community or the injured person. If
the use of the machine is profitable, the owner ought to pay
compensation for the damage." Powell v Fall, (1880) 5
Q. B. D. 597, 601.
In this country, the strict rule of the common law of England as to liability for accidental fires has not been generally
adopted, but the matter has been regulated, in many States,
by statute. Clark v. Foot, 8 Johns. 329, Bachelder v. Heagan,
18 Maine, 32, Tourtellot v. Rosebrook, 11 Met. 460; Finley v.
Langston, 12 Missouri, 120; .3riller v Martin, 16 Missouri,
508, Catron v. Niciols, 81 Missouri, 80, Cooley on Torts, 14,
590-592, 1 Thompson on Negligence, 148-150.

OCTOBER .TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In the Colony of Massachusetts, from the first settlement,
it was an object of legislation, "for the preservation of houses,
hay, boards, timber. &c." 1 Mass. Col. Rec. (1631) 90, (1639)
281, 3 Mass. Col. IRec. (1646) 102. In 1660, or earlier, it was
enacted that "whoever shall kindle any fires in the woods, or
grounds lying in common, or enclosed, so as the same shall run
into corn grounds or enclosures," dt certain seasons, should
"pay all damages, -and half so much for a fine", "provided
that any man may kindle fire in his own ground so as no damage come thereby either to the country or to any particular
person." Mass. Col. Laws of 1660, p. 31, of 1672, p. 51.
Soon after the introduction of railroads into the United
States, the legislature of the State of Massachusetts, by the
statute of 1837, c. 226, provided that a railroad corporation
should be held responsible in damages for any injury dohne to
buildings or other property of others by fire communicated
from its locomotive engines, "unless the said corporation shall
show that they have used all due caution and diligence, and
employed suitable).expedients to prevent such injdry", and
that any railroad corporation should have an insurable interest in property along its route for which it might be so held
responsible in damages, and might procure insurance thereon
in its own behalf.
Three years later, that statute was repealed, and was reenacted with bhe omission, of the clause above quoted, thus
making the liability of the railroad corporation absolute, and
not dependent upon negligence on its part. And the statute
n this form, with merely verbal changes, has been continued
in force by successive reenactments. Mass. Stat. 1840, c.85,
Gen. Stat. of 1860, c. 63, § :101, Stat. 1874, c. 372, § 106,
Pub. Stat. of 1882, c. 112, 214.
In thefirst reported case under this statute, it was held by
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts that the liability
of the railroad company was not restricted to a building by
the side of its road, which the very particles of fire emanating
from the engines fell upon and kindled a flame in, but extended
to a building across a street, set on fire by sparks wafted by
the wiid from the first building while it was burning; and

ST. MlOVIS' & SAN FRANCISCO RY v. MATHEWS.

1I

Opinion of the Court.

Chief Justice Shaw, in delivering judgment, said "We consider this to be a statute purely remedial, and not penal.
Railroad companies acquire large profits by their business.
But their business is of such a nature as necessarily to expose
the property of others to danger, and yet, on account of the
great accommodation and advantage to the public, companies
are authorized by law to maintain tnem, dangerous though
they are, and so they cannot be regarded as a nuisance. The
manifest intent and design of this statute, we think, and its
legal effect, are, upon the considerations stated, to afford some
indemnity against this risk to those who are exposed to it, and
to throw the responsibility upon those who are thus authorized
to use a somewhat dangerous apparatus, and who realize a
profit from it." Hartv. Westerm Railroad,(18417) 13 Met. 99Two years afterwards, the same court adjudged that the
istatute applied to railroad companies incorporated before its
passage, and that it extended as well to estates, a part of
which had been conveyed by the owner, as to those of which
a part had been taken by law, for the purposes of a railroad;
and Mr. Justice Dewey, in delivering judgment, said "We
can perceive no sound distinction between the cases supposed.
Each of these modes for acquiring the necessary real estate
for the purpose of a railroad is authorized, both by the general
laws and by the acts creating railroad corporations. In each,
the landowner is supposed to receive full satisfaction for all.
the injuries necessarily resulting from the use of the same for
a railroad. But with the use of locomotive engines, greater
hazard to contiguous buildings and property owned by the
adjacent landowners may arise, than was originally contemplated, or ought to be left to the ordinary common law remedies. We consider this provision of the statute of 1840, c. 85,
as one of those general remedial acts passed for the more effectual protection of property against the hazards to which it
has become subject by the introduction of the locomotive
engine. The right to use the parcel of land appropriated to
a railroad does not deprive the legislature of the power to
enact such regulations, and impose such liabilities for injuries
suffered from the mode of using the road, as the occasion and

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinon of the Court.

circumstances may reasonably justify" Lyman v. Boston &
Worcester Railroad,(1849) 1 Cush. 288.
The same statute was held to cover personal property in a
building, and growing trees, destroyed by fire from a locomotive engine, Chief Justice Bigelow saying" "It is not a penal
statute, but purely remedial in its nature, and it is to be interpreted fairly and liberally, so as-to secure to parties injured
an indemnity from those who reap the advantages and profits
arising from the use of a dangerous mode of. locomotion, by
means of. which buildings and other property are destroyed."
Ross v. Boston &
orcester Railroad,(1863) 6 Allen, 87.
Again, in Ingersoll & Qwugley v Stockbridge & PitMsfield
Railroad,(1864:) 8 Allen, 438,, it was held, following Hart v.
Western Railroad,above cited, to be immaterial that a building was destroyed by the spreading of a fire from other buildings on which the sparks from the engine had fallen, and it
was also held to be immaterial that the building stood partly
within the location of the railroad, Mr. Justice Hoar saying
"The fact that a building op other property stands near a
railroad, or partly or wholly on,it, if placed there with the
consent of the company, does-not diminish their responsibility,
in case it is injured by fire communicated from their locomotives. "The legislature 'have chosen to make it a condition of
the right to run carriages impelled by the agency of fire, that
the corporation' employing them shall be responsible for all
injuries which the fire may cause."
Upon facts very like those of that case, this court, at October term, 1875, sustained an action under a statute of Vermont,
copied from the 'Massachusetts statute of 1837, and, spealng
by Mr. Justice Strong, said "The statute was designed to be
a remedial one. In Massachusetts,. there is a statute almost
identical with that of Vermont", and, referring to that case
.as directly inpoint; quoted the passage above cited from the
opinion, ending with- the words "The legislature have chosen
to make it a condition of the right to run carriages impelled
by the agency of fire, that the corporation employing them
shall be responsible for all injuries which the fire may cause.'?
Grand Tr'unk Railway v Richardson, 91 U S. 454, 456, 472.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCQ R'Y v. MATHEWS.

13

Opinion of the Court.

The statute of Massachusetts, existing at the time of that decision and for thirty-five years before, and enforced in the
Massachusetts cases, imposed a liability upon the railroad company, wholly independent of negligence on its part, and the
terms m which this court referred to that statute, and quoted
from one of those cases, show that no doubt of its constitutionality was entertained.
In Maine and in New Hampshire, statutes_substantially like
the statute of Massachusetts of 184:0, making railroad corporations absolutely liable, without regard to negligence, for injuries to property by fire communicatedi from their locomotive
engines, were enacted in 1842, and have been since contMued
in. force, and their validity upheld by the highest courts of
those States, as applied to corporations created either before
or after their passage. Maine Stat. 1842, c. 9, § 5, Rev. Stat.
of 1883, c. 51, § 64-, Chapman v. Atlantic
St. Lawrence
Railroad, 37 Maine, 92, Pratt - Same, 42 Maine, 579,
Steven8 v. Same, 46 Maine, 95, Sherman v. Matne Central
Railroad, 86 Maine, 422, N. H. IRev Stat. of 1842, c. 142,
§ 8, 9, Gen. Stat. of 1867, c. 148, §§ 8, 9, Gen. Laws of 1878,
c. 162, §§ 8, 9, B'ook8et v Concord Railroad,38 N. H. 242,
Rowell v. Railroad,57 N. H. 132, Smith v. Bo8ton &JMaine
Railroad,63 N. H. 25.
In Connecticut, before any legislation towards holding railroad corporations liable for property burned by sparks from.
their locomotive engines, they were held not to be so liable,
if their use of such engines was with due care and skill, and
in conformity with their charters. Burroughs v Iousatonw
Railroad,15 Conn. 124. The subsequent legislation upon the
subject, and the reasons for it as stated by the Supreme Court
of the State, were as follows Experience demonstrated that
in all cases of fire set by the operation of railroads it was
extremely difficult and in some cases impossible, to prove
negligence even when it existed. This led to the passage in
1840, and to the rednactment in 1875, of a statute pyoviding
that, in all actions for any injury occasioned by fire communicated by any railway locomotive engine in the State, proof
that such fire was so communicated should- be przma facme

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence of negligence. Conn. Stat. 18-0, c. 26, Gen. Stat.
of 1875, tit. 19, c. 11, § 29. Even then, the difficulty was but
partially removed, for in most cases the defendant could easily
produce evidence of due care, and the plaintiff would be ill
prepared to meet it. Therefore, in 1881, the legislature took
the broad, equitable ground that upon proof of. the fact that
the locomotive engine communicated fire to and destroyed
property the company should be liable, independently of the
question of negligence, and accordingly enacted another statute, in the words of the Massachusetts statute of 1840, before
mentioned, imposing an absolute liability, qualified only by
the insertion of the words, -"without- contributory negligence
on the part of the person or corporation entitled to the care
and possession of the property injured." Conn. Stat. 1881,
c. 92. The statutes of 1875 and 1881 were both reenacted in
the Revised Statutes of 1888, §§ 1096, 3581. ZMarlin v. _New
York & New England Railroad, 62 Conn. 331, 339. The
provisions of the statute of 1881 have been repeatedly upheld
and enforced. Simmonds v .Yew York & YSew England
Railroad,52 Conn. 264, Gvzssell v. flousatono Railroad,54
Conn. 447, 'Regan v New Y ork & New England Railroad,
60 Conn. 124, .3Iartia'v Same, above cited.
In Gri sel v lou1saton Railroad, the validity of that
statute was strongly assailed upon all the grounds taken by
the plaintiff in error in the present case, and the court, in the
course of a well-considered opinion, said "It is a mistake to
suppose that itinecessarily transcends the limits of valid legislation, or violates the principle of a just equality before the
law, if the one using extrabazardous materials or instrumentalities, which put in jeopardy a neighbor's property, is made
to bear the risk and pay the loss thereby occasioned, if there is
no fault on the part of the owner of the property, even though
negligence in the other party cannot be proved." The court
referred to early statutes of Connecticut, which required no
proof of negligence in two classes of actions of tort, the one,
making the owner of a dog, or, if the owner was a minor or
an apprentice, his parent, guardian or master, liable for all
damage done by the dog, Conn. Stat. of 1789, Acts and

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R'Y v. XMTHEWS.

15

Opinion of the Court.

Laws of 1796, p. 383, Gen. Stat. of 1875, p. 267, § 3, Rev.
Stat. of 1888, § 3761, Rusell v. Tomlinson, 2 Conn. 206,
Woolf v. Chalker, 31 Conn. 121, 133, the other, making every
person setting a fire on his own or any land, that runs upon
the land of any other person, liable for all damage done by
the fire. Conn. Col. Laws of 1750, p. 247, 2 Swift's System,
81, Gen. Stat. of 1875, p. 489, § 6, Rev Stat. of 1888, § 1344,
Grannm v. Cummsng&, 25 Conn. 165, Ayer v. Starkey, 30
Conn. 304. The court added "We are not aware that the
validity of any of these statutes has been called in question.
The dangerous character of the thing used is always to be
considered in determining the validity of statutory regulations
fixing the liability of parties so using it. Fire has always been
subject to arbitrary regulations, and the common law of England was more severe and arbitrary on the subject than any
statute. In Rolle's Abridgment (Action on the Case, B, tit.
.Fire)it is said ' If my fire by misfortune burns the goods of
another man, he shall have his action on the case against me.
If a .fire breaks out suddenly in my house, I not knowing it,
and it burns my goods and also my neighbor's house, he shall
have his action on the case against me. So, if the fire is
caused by a servant or a guest, or any person who entered the
house with my consent. But otherwise, if it is caused by a
stranger who entered the house against my will."' "There
is no force in the suggestion that the statute under consideration unjustly selects only railroad corporations to bear the
burden of an extraordinary risk. It is confined to them, because they alone have the privilege of taking a narrow strip
of land from each owner, without his consent, along the route
selected for the track, and of traversing the same at all hours
of the day and night, and at all seasons whether wet or dry,
with locomotive engines that scatter fire along the margin of
the land not taken, thereby subjecting all combustible property to extraordinary hazard of loss, and that too for the sole
profit of the corporation." 54 Conn. 461, 462.
In Iowa, before the passage of any statute making railroad.
corporations responsible for damage done by sparks from their
locomotive engines, it was held that no action could be main-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

tamed for such damage, without proof of negligence on their
part. Gandy v. ChAwago & fforthwe8tern Railroad,30 Iowa,
420. The legislature then passed a statute 'providing that
"any corporation operating.a railway shall be liable for all
damages by fire that is set, out or caused by the operating of
any such.xailway.?' Iowa Code of 1873, §1289, The Supreme
Court of the State, assuming this statute to impose a liability
independent of negligence, held it to be constitutional, and
applicable to companies incorporated under general laws before its passage, and said. "The statute simply recognizes
the doctrine that the use of the locomotive engine is the
employment of a dangerous force, that sometimes, notwithstanding the exercise of the highest care and diligence, it will
emit sparks and cause destructive conflagrations, that when
this occurs loss must fall upon one of two innocent parties,
that heretofore that loss has been borne by the owner of the
property injured, hereafter it shall be borne by the owner of
the property causing the injury" "What the policy of this
legislation may be, experience alone can show It may be
that it will -prove to be unreasonably severe, and to stand in
the way' of material progress and the best interests of the
country at large. It may, upon the other hand, promote a
high degree of skill and care, and stimulate the invention and
.use of inproved appliances, lessening the danger of fires, and
greatly increasing the safety of property, without any detriment to public interests. With these questions we have
nothing to do. For us it is enough to know that the statute
contravenes no constitutional provision, state or national, and
that it does not do so we entertain no doubt." Ilodemacher
v. Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad,41 Iowa, 297, 309. The
subsequent decision, by a majority of the same court, cited by
the plaintiff in error, that this statute only made the fact of an
injury so occurring przma facte evidence of negligence,. was
based wholly upon a peculiar construction of this section in
--cqnection with .other provisions of the code, and in no degree
upcm any suggestion that, regarded as imposing'an absolute
liability, it would be unconstitutional. Small v. Chscago, Rock
Island & Pacifc Rail'oad, 50 Iowa, 338.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R'Y v. MATHEWS.

17

Opinion of the Court.

In a recent case in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Iowa, Judge Shiras said. "The
right to use the agencies of fire and steam in the movement
of railway trains in Iowa is derived from the legislation
of the State, and it certainly cannot be denied that it is for
the State to determine what safeguards must be used to prevent the escape of fire, and to define the extent of the liability for fires resulting from the operation of trains by means
of steam locomotives. This is a matter within state control.
The legislation of the State determines the width of the right
of way used by the companies. The State may require the
companies to keep the right of way free from combustible
material. It may require the depot and other buildings used
by the company to be of stone, brick or other like material,
when built in cities or in 6lose proximity to other buildings.
The State, by legislation, may establish the extent of the
liability of railway companies for damages resulting from fires
caused in the operation of the roads." Hartord Tn8. Co. v.
Chncago, .Milwaukee c} St. Paul Railway Co., 69 Fed. Rep.
904,907.
In lissouri, a statute was enacted in 1853, requiring rail-road corporations, whether already existing or thereafter
formed under the laws of the State, to erect and maintain
fences on the sides of their railroads, where they passed
through enclosed fields, with openings or gates or bars at farm
crossings, and also cattle-guards at all road crossings, suitable and sufficient to prevent cattle, horses or other animals
f'om getting upon the railroads, and, until such fences and
cattle-guards were duly made, making the corporation liable
for all damages done by its agents or engines to animals on
the railroad. M~issouri Stat. February 24, 1853, § 51, 56,
Laws of 1853, pp. 143, 141. The Supreme Court of the State,
following the opinion of Chief Justice Redfield in the leading
case of Tlwpe v Rutland & Burlington Railroad,27 Vermont, 140, and referring to Lymaib v. Boeton & Worcester
Railroad,4 Cush. 88, above stated, held the statute constitutional as applied to companies incorporated under general
laws before its passage, and Mr. Justice Scott, in delivering
VOL. cixv-2

OCTQBER TERIK, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment,.said "Where such dangerous and powerful agents
as steam engines are brought into use, there should be a power
in the legislature to prescribe such reasonable regulations as
will prevent injuries resulting from their employment. The
foresight of man is not competent to the task of prescribing
m a charter all the regulations which time may show to be
necessary for the security of the interests of the people of the
State against injuries caused by the introduction of new, powerful and dangerous agents for carrying on her intercourse and
commerce. The charter must be taken subject to the understanding that, in its operation affecting the interests of society,
it will be, like individuals, liable to be controlled by such reasonable enactments as may be dictated by a sense of what is required for the preservation of the persons, lives and property
of the people, such enactments not contravening the expressed
or plainly implied provisions of the charter." Gorman v.
Pacic Bailroad, 26 Missouri, 441, 450, 451. That statute
was afterwards refnacted, modified by including unenclosed
lands as well as enclosed or cultivated fields, and by making
the corporation liable in double the amount of damages
to cattle, horses or other animals, occasioned by failure
to construct or maintain such fences br cattle-guards. Missouri Gen. Stat. of 1865, c. 63, § 43, 1 Wagner's Stat. c.
37, art. 2, § 43, Stat. February 18, 1875, Laws of 1875, p.
131, Rev. Stat. of 1889, § 2611. And the statute, as so
modified, and as applied to existing railroad corporations,
was held to be valid by a decision of that court, affirmed by
this court. Humes v Mis8ourz Pacfic Railway, 82 Missouri,
221, and 115 U. S. 512.
In Missouri, before the passage of any statute concerning
the liability of -railroad corporations for fire communicated
from their engines, they were held not to be liable, unless
negligent;, but the fact of fire escaping from a passing engine
and burning property of another was held to be prmajame
evidence of negligence, and to throw upon the defendant the
burden of proving that it supplied the best mechanical contrivances to prevent the fire from escaping, and that there
was no negligence on the part of its servants. TFitch v. Pa-

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R'Y v. MATHEWS.

19

Opinion of the Court.

cifio Railroad, 45 iMissouri, 322, .Miller v

t. Loum, I.ron
.M3ountazn & Southern Railroad,90 Missouri, 389. The statute of March 31, 1887, now in question, (reenacted in section
2615 of the Revised Statutes of 1889,) changed the rule, by
making the railroad corporation absolutely responsible in
,damages to the owners of property "injured or destroyed
by fire communicated, directly or indirectly, by locomotive
engines" i use upon its railroad, and providing that it
should have an insurable interest in property along its route,
and might procure insurance thereon in its own behalf, for
its protection against such damages. The constitutionality
of this statute was upheld by the Supreme Court of the State
in full and able opinions in the case at bar, and in a similar
case decided at the same time, and now argued with it in this
court. JMathews v St. Louis & San Franczsco Railway, 121
Missouri, 298, campbell v. MIissourm Paczfle Railway, 121
Missoui, 340. In discussing the subject, the court said "If
the State is powerless to protect its citizens from the ravages
of fires set out by agencies created by itself, then it fails to
meet one of the essentials of a good government. Certainly,
it fails in the protection of property
The argument of the
defendant, reduced to its last analysis, is this 'The State
authorized the railroad companies to propel cars by steam.
To generate steam, they are compelled to use fire. Therefore,
they can lawfully use fire, and as they are pursuing a lawful
business, they are only liable for negligence in its operation,.
and when, in a given case, they can demonstrate they are
guilty of no negligence, then they cannot be made liable.'
To this the citiz9n answers: I also own my land lawfully
I have the right to grow mv crops and erect buildings on it,
at any place I choose. I did not set in motion any dangerous
machinery You say you are guiltless of negligence. It results, then, that the State. which owes me protection to my
property from others, has chartered an agency which, be it
ever so careful and cautious and prudent, inevitably destroys
my property, and yet denies me all redress. The State has
no right to take or damage my propertv without just compensation.' But what the State cannot do directly, it attempts

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.
,-2

to do indirectly, through the charters granted to railroads, if
defendant's contention be true. When it was demonstrated
that, although the railroads exercised every precaution in the
construction of their engines, the choice of their operatives,
and clearing their rights of way of all combustibles, 8till fire
was emitted from their engines, and the citizen's property
burned, notwithstanding his efforts to extinguish it1,and notwithstanding he had in no way contributed to setting it out,
it is perfectly competent for the State to require the company
who set out the fire to pay his damages." "The organic law
of the State prescribed, before defendant obtained its charter,
that 'the exercise of the police power of the State shall never
be abridged, or so construed as to permit corporations to conduct their business in such manner as to infringe the equal
rights of individuals, or the general well being of the State.'
Constitution of Missouri, art. 12, sec. 5. Let it be conceded,
for it is true, that prior to-the enactment of section 2615, by
the decisions of this and other courts, defendant was only
liable for negligence in setting out fire, is it to be concluded
that the legislature is powerless to enact laws which will give
ample protection to citizens against fires 2 Most certainly not.
Fire, as one of the most dangerous elements, has ever been
the subject of legislative control. It ought not to excite surprise among a people, the great body of whose laws had their
origin in England, that those who set out fires which destroy
the property of others should be held absolutely responsible
for them. Such was the ancient common law, before any
statutes were enacted" -quoting Rolle's Abridgment, before
cited. "Under ordinary circumstances, this was thought to
be a harsh rule, and it was not generally adopted by the courts
of the several -States, but the question we are discussing is
not what the courts have generally regarded as the reasonable
rule, but what is the power of the lawmaking power to adopt
as a correct one." 121 Missouri, 315-317.
Similar statutes have also been enacted, and held to be constitutional, in Colorado, and in South Carolina. Colorado
Territorial Stat. January 13, 1874, § 3, Laws of 1874., p. 225,
Gen. Laws of 1877, art. 2237, § 3, Gbn. Stat. of 1883, § 1037,

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRAKNCISCO R'Y v. MATHEWS.

:i

Opinion of the Court.

2798, Union Paczc Railway v. De Bu k, 12 Colorado, 294,
South Carolina Gen. Stat. of 1882, § 1511, MoCandless v
Richmond & Danville Railroad,38 So. Car. 103.
In Milwaukee 6 St. Paul Railway v. Kellogg, 9-4 U. S.469,
in Norti-ern Pa2Xfte Railroadv Lewzs, 162 U. S.366, and .in
Eddy v. Lafayette, 163 U. S..456, in which it was assumed that
negligence on the parL.pftthe defendant must be proved, the
action was at common law, unaffected by any statute. And
the statutes of some States make negligence an essential element in the liability of a railroad company for injuries by fire
from its engines. 1 Thompson on Negligence, 171.
The statute of Alabama of February 3, 1877, c. 39, which

was held to be unconstitutional in Zeigler v Souta & .orth
Alabama Railroad,58 Alabama, 594, cited by the plaintiff in
error, was one providing that all corporations or persons,
"owning or controlling any railroad in this State, shall be liable for all damages to live stock or cattle of any kind, caused
by locomotives or railroad cars." Whatever may be thought
of the correctness of that decision, no question of liability for
fire was before.the court, nor was any reference made to the
statutes or decisions of other States upon this subject.
In each of the cases in Arkansas, cited by the plaintiff in
error, the decision was that a statute of the State. providing
generally that, "all railroads, which are now or may be hereafter built and operated, in whole or in part, in this State,
shall be responsible for all damages to persons and property
done or caused by the running of trains in this State," was
not intended by the legislature to make the railroad company
responsible for all damages, without regard to negligence, but
only to shift the burden of proof upon the defendant. Arkansas Stat. February 3, 1875, "Mansfield's Digest, § 5537, Little
Rock & FortSeott Railway v Payne,33 Arkansas, 816, Tilley
v St. Loins d? Sn Francisco iailway,49 Arkansas, 535. The
court, in the first of those cases, while expressing an opinion
that "it was "not within the province of the legislature to
divest rights by prescribinz to the courts what should be conclusive evidence," impliedly admitted, or at least cautiously
abstained from denying, the validity of statutes like that now

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinlon of the Court.

in question, by saying "In Massachusetts, by statute, railroad compames are made absolutely liable for injuries by fire
commuii-,.ated from their engines, but, in compensation, are.
given an insurable interest in any buildings along .the route.
The courts "ave sustained this law, but the .nature of it is
peculiar and exceptional, and the language too clear to admit
of doubt."

33 Arkansas, 820.

The learning and diligence of counsel have failed to'discover
an instance in which a statute, making railroad, companies
absolutely liable for damages by fire communicated from
their locomotive engines to the property of -others, has been
adjudged to be unconstitutional, as to companies incorporated
before or since its enactment.
This review of the authoirities leads to the following conclusions
First. The law of England, fr6in the earliest times, held
any one lighting a fire upon his own premises to the strictest
accountability for damages caused by its spreading to the
property of others.
Second. The earliest statute which declared railroad corporations to be absolutely responsible, independently of negligence,
for damages by fire communicated from their locomotive
engines to property of others, was passed m Massachusetts in
1840, soon after such engines had become common.
Third. In England, at the time of the passage of that statute, it was undetermined whether a railroad corporation,
without negligence, was liable to a civil action, as at common
law, for damages to property of others by fire from its locomotive engines, and- tne result that it was not so liable was
subsequently reached after some conflict of judicial opinion,
-and only when the acts of Parliament had expressly authorized
the corporation to use:locomotive engines upon its railroad, and
had not declared it to be responsible for such damages.
'Fourth. From the time of the passage of the Massachusqtt-s statute of 1840- to the present time, a period of more than
,lialf a century, the validity of that and similar statutes has
een constantly upheld in the courts of every State of the
Ubion -in which the- question .has ariseg.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R Y v. MATHEWS. 23
Opinion of the Court.

In this court, the constitutionality of such a statute has
never been directly drawn into judgment. But it appears to
have been assumed in Grand .Trun7i Railway v Richardson,
91 U. S. 451, 472, already cited, and it rests upon principles
often affirmed here.
As was said by Chief Justice Shaw, "It is a settled principle, growing out of the nature of well ordered civil society,
that every holder of property, however absolute and unqualifled may be his title, holds it under the implied liability that
his use of it may be so regulated, that it shall not be injurious
to the equal enjoyment of others having an equal right to the
enjoyment of their property, nor injurious tb the rights of
the community"
Conrmonwedlth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53, 81, 85.
This court has often recognized and-affirmed the fundamental
principle so declared, and has more than once said "Rights
and privileges arising from contracts with a State are subject
to regulations for the protection of the public health, the public morals, and the public safety, in the same sense as are all
contracts and all property, whether owned by natural persois
or corporations." iSlaughter-house Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 62,
Patterson v Kentucky, *97 U. S. 501, 505, New Orleans Gas
Go: v. Louiszana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 672, N/ew Orleans
Waterworks v. R ers, 115 U. S. 674, 682, .ugler v- Kansas,
123 U. S. 623, 665, Sweet v Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 398.
In Beer Co. v .Massachusetts,97 IT. S. 25, 33, in which a
statute of Massachusetts, prohibiting the manufacture and sale
of intoxicating liquors, including malt liquors, was held to be
constitutional and valid, as applied to a corporation chartered
long before by the State for the purpose of manufacturing
malt liquors, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said.
"Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the extent
and boundaries of the police power, and however difficult it
may be to render a satisfactory d~finition of it, there seems
to be no doubt that it does extend to the protection of the
lives, health and property of the citizens, and to the preservation of good order and the public morals. The legislature
cannot by any contract divest itself of the power to providt,
for these objects. They belong emphatically to that class of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

objects which demand the application of the maxim, salug
popul szprema lex, and they are to be attained and provided
for by such appropriate means as the legislative discretion
may devise. That discretion can. no more be bargained away
than the power itself."
In .Miwgowrz Pacflo Railway v. ZHumes, 115 U S. 51, already mentioned, in which a statute of Missouri, making railroad corporations, not fencing their railroads, liable in double
damages for injuries thereby occasioned to cattle and other
animals, was held constitutional as:applied to corporations existing before its enactment, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Field, said "If the laws enacted by a State be within the
legitimate sphere of legislative power, and their enforcement
be attended with the observance of those general rules which
our system of jurisprudence prescribes for the security of private rights, the harshness, injustice and oppressive character
of such laws will not invalidate them as affecting life, liberty
or property without due process of law"
"The law of Missourm, in requiring railroad corporations to erect fences where
their roads pass through, along or adjoining enclosed or cultivated fields or unenclosed lands, with openings or gates at farm
crossings, and to construct and maintain cattle-guards, where
fences are required, sufficient to keep horses, cattle and other
animals from going on the roads, imposes a duty in the performance of which the public is largely interested. Authority
for exacting it is found in the general police power of the State
to provide against accidents to life and property in any business or employment, whether under the charge of private persons or of corporations." "In few instances could the power
be more wisely or beneficently exercised than in compelling
railroad corporations to enclose their roads with fences having
gates at crossings, and cattle-guards. The speed and momentum of the locomotive render such protection against accident
in thickly settled portions of the country absolutely essential."
115 U S. 520, 522.
"The objection that the statute of Missouri violates the
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which prohibits a State
to deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protec-

ST. LOUIS & -SAN FRANCISCO R'Y v. MATHEWS.

25

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the laws, is as untenable as that which we have considered. The statute makes no discrimination against any
railroad company in its requirements. Each company is subject to the same liability, and from each the same secfrity, by
the erection of fences, gates and cattle-guards, is exacted,
when its road passes through, along or adjolning- enclosed or
cultivated fields or unenclosed lands. There is no evasion of
the rule of equality, where all companies are subjected to the
same duties and liabilities under similar circumstances." 115
U. S. 523.
Like decisions, for like reasons, were made in the similar
cases of Mi-nneapolis c St. Louis Railway v Beckwith, 129
U. S. 26, and Sw'ai v E,4mong, 149 U. S. 364, in which last
case this court, again speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said
"The extent of the obligations and duties required of railway
corporations or compauies by their cnarters does not create
any limitation upon the State against imposing all such further
duties as may be deemed essential or important for the safety
of the public, the security of passengers and employes, or
the protection of the property of adjoining owners. The imposing of proper penalties for the enforcement of such additional duties is unquestionably within the police powers of the
States. No contract with any person, individual or corporate,
can impose restrictions upon the power of the States in this
respect." 149 U. S. 367, 368.
In Mi88ourz Paific Railway v Mackey, 127 U. S. 205, the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas in 33 Kansas, 298,
maintaining the. constitutionality of a statute of the State,
imposing for the future upon every railroad corporation, organized or doing business in the State, a liability, to which
no person or corporation was before subject, for all damages
done to any of its employes by negligence or mismanagement of their fellow-servants, was affirmed by this court,
saying "The hazardous character of the business of operating a railway would seem to call for special legislation with
respect to railroad corporations, having for its object the protection of their employes, as well as the safety of the public.
The business of other corporations is not subject to similar

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

dangers to their employes and no objections, therefore, can
be made to the legislation on the ground of its making an
unjust discrimination. It meets a particular necessity, and all
railroad corporations are, without, distinction, made subject to
the same liabilities. As said'by the court below, it is simply
a question of legislative discretion whether the same liabilities
shall be applied to carriers by canal and stage coaches, and to
persons and corporations using steam.in manufactories." 127
U. S. 210.
--The motives which have induced, and the reasons which
justify, the legislation now in question, may be summed up
thus Fire, while necessary for many uses of civilized man, is
a dangerous, volatile and destructive element, which often
escapes in the form of sparks, capable of being wafted afar
through the air, and of destroying any combustible property
on which they fall, and which, when it has once gained headway, can hardly be arrested or controlled. Rail'oad corporations, in order the better to carry out the public object of
their creation, the sure and prompt transportation of passengers and goods, have been authorized by statute to use
locomotive engines propelled by steam generated by fires
lighted upon those engines. It is within the authority of the
legislature to make adequate provision for protecting the
property of others against loss or injury by sparks from such
engines. The- right of the citizen not to have his property
burned without compensation is no less to be regarded than
the right of the corporation to set it on fire. To require the
utmost care and diligence of the railroad corporations in taking precautions against: the escape of fire from their engines
might not afford sufficient protection to the owners of property in the neighborhood of the railroads. When both parties
are equally faultless, the legislature may properly consider it
to be just that the duty of insuring private property against
loss or ,injury caused by the use of dangerous instruments
should rest upon the railroad company, which employs the
instruments and creates the peril for its own profit, rather
than upon the owner of the property, who has no control over
or interest in those instruments. The very statute, now in

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO R'Y v. MATHEWS.

27

Opinion of the Court.

question, which makes the railroad company liable in damages
for property so destroyed, gives it, for its protection against
such damages, an insurable interest in the property in danger
of destruction, and the right to obtain insurance thereon in
its own behalf, atrd it may obtain insurance upon all such
property generally, without specifying any particular property Eastern R2ailroad v. Belief ns. Co., 98 Mass. 420.
The statute is not a penal one, imposing punsbment for a
violation of law, but it is purely remedial, making the party,
doing a lawful act for its own profit, liable in damages to the
innocent party injured thereby, and giving to that party the
whole damages, measured by the injury suffered. Grand
Trunk Railway v Richardson, 91 U S. 454, 472, Huntington v Attrill, 146 U. S. 657.
The statute is a constitutional and valid exercise of the legislative power of the State, and applies to all railroad corporations alike. Consequently, it neither violates any contract
between the State and the railroad company, nor deprives the
company of its property without due process of law, nor yet
denies to it the equal protection of the laws.
Judgment affirmed.
No. 118. MIssouRI PACiFIc RAiwAY ComerAw v. StnooNs,
Administrator of Campbell, argued and decided with this case,
and reported below in 121 Missouri, 340, was substantially similar,
and in that case also the
Judgment zs affiimed.

Mr. Davd D. Duncan, Mr. John F Dillon and Mr. Winslow

Pierce for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W M. Williams for defendant m error.

P

