ROSENCRANS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement.of the Case..

ROSENORANS v. UNITED STATES.
BRUOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF .THE. UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 522. Suprmitted January 11, 1897.-Decided February 1, 1897.

Under the act of July 20, 1892, c. 208, the grand jury in the southern division of the District of Montana had jurisdiction Co find the indictment
which forms the subject of discussion in this case; and, after such indictment had been found, the court had authority to remit it to the other
division for trial.
Where Congress has eprcssly legislated in respect to a given matter, that
express legislation must control, in the absence of subsequent legislation
equally express, and is not overthrown by any mere inferences or implications to be found in such subsequent legislation.
The indictment of a person employed in the postal service for secreting,
embezzling or destroying a cheque or draft in a letter delivered to him
as such agent need not give a full description of the cheque or draft;
but it is sufficient to say that, the instrument having been destroyed, the
grand jury is unable to give any further description than isfound in the
indictment.

THE act of February 22, 1889, c. 180, 25 Stat. 676, 682, admitting Montana into the Union, provided that the State
should constitute one judicial district, and that the sessions of

the Circuit and District Courts of the United States should be
held at Helena, in Lewis and Clarke County, that being the
capital of the State. On July 20, 1892, the following act
(c. 208) was passed, 27 Stat. 252
"That the territory embraced within the following counties in the District of Montana, to wit Beaverhead County,
Madison County and the county of Silver Bow shall hereafter
constitute .and be known as the aouthern division of the District of Montana, and regular terms of the Circuit and District Courts of the United States for said district may be-held
at Butte City, Montana, op the first Tuesday in February and
ihe first Tuesday in. September of each year, and the said
courts so sitting at Butte shall have and exercise the same
jurisdiction and authority in all civil actions, pleas or proVOL.

=.v-17

OCT6BER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ceedings, and in all prosecutions, informations, indictments,
or other criminal or penal proceedings conferred by the general laws on the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States, and where one or more defendants in any civil cause
shall reside in said division, and one or more defendants to
such cause shall reside out of said division, but in said district,
then the plaintiff may institute his action either in the court
having jurisdiction over the latter or in the said division.
That this act shall not affect the jurisdiction, power and
authority of the court as to actions, prosecutions and proceedings already begun and pending in said district, but the same
will proceed as though this act had not been passed, except
that the court shall have power, which it may exercise at discretion, to transfer to the court in said division such of said
pending actions, prosecutions and proceedings as might properly be begun therein under the provisions of this act."
On March 18, 1895, an indictment in five counts was presented in the Circuit Court, charging the defendant with violating section 5467 of the Revised Statutes, which reads
"Any person employed in any department of the postal
service who shall secrete, embezzle or destroy any letter,
packet, bag or mail of letters intrusted to him, or which shall
come into his possession, and which was intended to be conveyed by mail, or carried or delivered by any mail carrier,
mail messenger, route agent, letter carrier or other person
employed in any department of the postal service,
draft, cheque, warrant,
and which shall contain any
or any other article of value, or writing representshall be punishable by imprisonment
ing the same,
at hard labor for not less than one year nor more than five
years.))
The fourth count, upon which alone the defendant was
found guilty, charged that on the 13th day of July, 1894, "in
the State and District of Montana and within the jurisdiction
of this court," the defendant, "a person employed in the
postal service of the United States, to wit, a railway postal
clerk,
and in the discharge of the duties of that position on the Great Northern Railway, between the station of

ROSENORA-NS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Havre, in the county of Choteau, and the station of Kalispell,
in the county of Flathead, in said State of Montana," did
destroy a registered letter and the contents thereof, which
letter had "come into his possession as such railway postal
clerk, and which was intended to be and was.then and there
being conveyed by United States mail, and which said registered letter had been deposited in the mail at the United
States post office at Sacramento," directed to "Mrs. Emilie
Heistans Greitzer, Gasthaus etzel b. Einsedeln Ct. Schwizz,
Schweizerland, which said registered letter contained a draft
for fifty francs, D. 0. Mills & Co., No. d.08250, on Paris,
France (a more particular description of which is to the grand
jurors aforesaid unknown)."
The term of the Circuit Court for the District of Montana,
at which the grand jury was empanelled and at which this
indictment, was presented, was held at the city of Butte, in
the southern division of the district. Thereafter, the defendant having been qrrested, on motion of the United States District Attorney, the indictment was remitted for trial to the
term of court to be held at Helena, in Lewis and Clarke
County, in the other division of the district. No objections
to this transfer were made by the defendant. Trial being
had, the jury found the defendant guilty, as heretofore
stated, under the fourth count. A motion in arrest, in
which for the first time the question of jurisdiction was
raised, having been made and overruled, the defendant was
sentenced to imprisonment for the term of one year, whereupon this writ of error was sued out.
.Mr TAomas H. Carter and -M' S. S. Burdett for plaintiff
in error.
Mr Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR.JusTicE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered' the
opinion of the court.
Counsel for defendant state that the main question for
determination is one of jurisdiction. First, of the grand jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

in the southern division of the District of Montana to find the
indictment, and, second, whether such indictment, having
been found, the court had authority to remit it to the other
division for trial.
It is insisted that the Circuit Court for the southern division had jurisdiction under the act of 1892 of only such
offences as were committed within the limits of the division, that therefore the grand jury had no authority to
find an indictment for an offence such as this, apparently
committed in the other division. The solution of this question depends upon the construction to be given to the act of
1892. By ยง 563, Rev Stat., the District Courts are given jurisdiction "1of all crimes and offences cognizable under the authority of the United States, committed within their respective
districts." By ยง 629, par. 20,-the Circuit Courts have "1concurrent jurisdiction with tile District Courts of crimes and
offences cognizable therein."
These statutes declare the general rule, that jurisdiction is
coextensive with district. That being the gene'al rule, no
mere multiplication of places at which courts are to be held
or mere creation of divisions nullifies it. Indeed, the place of
trial has no necessary connection with the matter of territorial jurisdiction. By ยง 581, Rev Stat., it is.provided that "a
special term of any District Court may be held at the same
place where any regular term is held, or -at such other place
in the district as the nature of the business may require."
And by ยง 729, that "the trial of offences punishable with
death shall be had in the county where the-offence was committed, where it can be done without great inconvenience."
Jurisdictlon in the trial courts being thus bounded by district, we find many acts, some increasing in a district the
places. of trial, and others in terms subdividing the district
into divisions. The former have no effect on the matter of
jurisdiction. Some of these latter acts specifically limit the
jurisdiction in criminal actions of the courts held in a division to the territory within that difision, as, for instance, in
respect to Alabama act of May 2, 1881, c. 38, 23 Stat. 18,
Louisiana act of August 8, 1888, c. 789, 25 Stat. 388, Michigan

ROSENCRANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

act of June 19, 1878, c. 326, 20 Stat. 175, Ohio act of June 8,
1878, c. 169, 20 Stat. 101, act of February 4, 1880, c. 18, 21
Stat. 63, Tennessee act of June 11, 1880, c. 203, 21 Stat. 175,
Texas act of March 1, 1889, c. 333, 25 Stat. 783, 786, while,
on the other hand, some contain no such provision, as in the
case of Minnesota, act of April 26, 1890, c. 167,26 Stat. 72, Post
v. United States, 161 U S. 583, 585, though this was changed
by the subsequent act of July 12, 1891, c. 132, 28 Stat. 102;
Post v. United States, 161 U. S. 583.
In the light of this legislation, with its diversity of provision,
we are called upon to- construe the act of 1892, creating the
southern division of the District of Montana. The first part
of the section simply creates the division and defines its limits.
This is"followed by the general declaration that the courts so
sitting in Butte, the place at the southern division in which
they. are to be held, "shall have and exercise the same juiisdiction and authority in all civil actions, pleas or proceedings,
and in all prosecutions, informations, indictments or other
criminal or penal proceedings conferred by the general laws
upon the Circuit and District Courts of the United States."
If the section stopped here there would be no question. The
mere creation of a division does not disturb the general jurisdiction over the district. And, in addition, the language just
quoted makes an affirmative grant to the courts when sitting
at Butte, of all the jurisdiction, civil and criminal, vested in
the Circuit and District Courts, that is, a jurisdiction coextensive with the diitrict. The latter part of the section causes
all the doubt in respect to the matter. In that are found two
provisions, one that, where one or more of the defendants in
any civil cause reside in one division and one or more in
another, the plaintiff may institute his action in either division.
This of course has no bearing on the question of jurisdiction
in criminal cases. The second, that the act should not affect
the jurisdiction of the court as to actions, prosecutions and
proceedings already begun, that they should proceed where
they were commenced, with a proviso that the court "ight i
its discretion transfer all such actions, etc., as might properly
be begun in the new division to the court in that division.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

This language is broad enough to include criminal actions..
Too much stress should not be placed on the word " properly"
The creation of divisions and the multiplication of places of
trial are for the convenience of litigants, bringing the trial
nearer to them and their witnesses. There is a manifest
propriety, even when no jurisdictional necessity, in conducting criminal prosecutions as near to the place of the offence
as possible. The idea of the vicinage is familiar to criminal
law And all that Congress may have intended by this
second provision was to make it clear that the court should
have the power to transfer to this new division any pending
proceeding which might with more convenience and therefore
propriety be prosecuted at the place at which in the new
division the sessions of the court were to be held. It must,
however, be conceded that these provisions do carry some
implication that a distribution has been made of territorial
jurisdict on between the courts of the two divisions, and the
question we have to determine is whether this implication is
sufficient to create a distribution which the statute has not
m terms made. It may be said, and with force, that there is
no need of the last half of the section, that it is superfluous,
unless upon the assumption 6hat there has been a distribution
of jurisdiction, civil or criminal or both, coextensive with the
territories of the two divisions, and yet can At be adjudged
that Congress has created such distribution when it has
not in terms directed it, simply because some expressions in
the statute imply its existence 2 The question is a difficult
one, and yet we think the true rul, of construction is this
WherT there are statutes clearly defining the jurisdiction of
the, courts the force and effect of such provisions should not be
-disturbed by a mere implication flowing from subsequent
legislation. In other words, where Congress, has expressly
legislated in respect to a given matter that express legislation
must control, in the absence of subsequent legislation equally
express, and is not overthrown by any mere inferences or
implications to be found in such subsequent legislation.
Especially is this rule to control when it appears that Congress
in some cases has made express provision for effecting a

ROSENCRANS v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

change. This does not conflict with the doctrine stated in In
Bonner, 151 U. S. 242, 256, that the jurisdiction of a court in
criminal cases cannot " b e enlarged by any mere inferences
from the law or doubtful construction of its terms." It is
rather the converse of that, for the effort is to destroy a jurisdiction otherwise clearly existing, by mere inferences and
doubtful construction.
This may be a case of mere omission, but it is an omission
which the courts cannot supply
We cannot assume that
because Congress in creating some divisions distributed jurisdiction it meant, in creating other divisions, to also so distribute it, and when we find that in some cases of division it
distributed the jurisdiction and in other cases not, we are not
justified in assuming that in this case it intended a distribution which it did not in terms make simply because of the use
of language which somewhat implies that a distribution had
already been made.
So far as the mere transfer of the place of trial from one
division to another, it would seem, in the absence of express
prohibition, to be within the competency of the court having
full jurisdiction over the entire district, and certaiily presents
no ground of error when it is not at the time challenged, and
the trial proceeds without objection.
These considerations also show that there is no force in the
objection that the indictment does not specify the place at
which the grand jury that found it was sifting, and also as to
the certainty of the venue.
The only remaining question is in reference to the description of the draft which was in the letter destroyed. It is
insifted that this is not sufficient. This objection can-not be
sustained. The gravamen of the charge is the destruction of
the letter. It is"
an offence against the postal laws of the
United States, and while the letter must contain a draft,
cheque or some other thing of value or supposed value in
order to bring the case within the compass of this statute, yet
it is unnecessary to describe this draft, cheque, etc., with the
same precision as if forgery or some other crime directed
against the instrument itself was charged. A full description

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the cheque or draft being unessential, it is clearly sufficient
when the grand jury say that the instrument having been destroyed they are unable to give any further description than
such as is found in' this inditAment, for that, as vill be
seen, contains some matters of description and identification.
There being no other questions presented in the record, and in
these appearing no error, the judgment of the Circuit Coart is

Affirmd.
MB.

JUSTICE

GiuY and MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

dissented.

THE VALENCIA.J
GERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Submitted May T, 1896. - Decided February 1, iT.

Dne furnishing supplies or making repairs on the order simply of a person
acquiring the control and possession of a vessel under a charter party
requiring him to provide and pay for all the coals, etc., cannot acquire a
maritime lien if the circumstances attending the transaction puL him on
inqairy as to the existence and terms of such charter party, anu he fails
to make the iquiry, and chooses to act on a mere belief that the vessel
will be liable for his claim.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr Ffrederto 1. Coudert and Mr ooseph iling for appellants.

;.Mr Wgiam W Goodrwzk and .Mr ohn A. Deady for
appellees.
i.

JUSTIE HARLM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is before us upon a question certified by the
I The docket title of this case ?ni"The Steamship Valencia, her tackle,
etc. William G. Boulton et aL, Claimants, v. William H. Ziegler et al."

