OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

The objection that the bill cannot be maintained against
the Commissioner alone being decisive of the case, it would
be inappropriate to express an opinion upon any of the graver
questions, fully argued at the bar, touching the jurisdiction
of the court, and the merits of the bill, or to leave the record
'insuch a shape as to appear to foreclose any of those questions. It is therefore
Ordered that the decree be reversed, and the case remanded,
with dtrection8 to dismiss the bill, with -costs,for 'want
of yropieryartes.
MIR. JusTIcE BREWER and MR.JUSTICE BRowN concurred in.
the result.

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THR
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 447. Submitted November 13, 1S96. -Decided

January 11, 189T.

When a person is notified that his case is to be brought before a grand jury,
he should proceed at once to take exception to its competency, and if he
has had no opportunity of objecting before bill found then he may raise
the objection by motion to quash or by plea in abatement; but in all
cases he must take the first opportunity in his power to make the objection. In this case the venire issued November 18, a second venire
December 2; the court opened December 3, the indictment was returned
December 12; the plea in abatement was filed-December 17. Held, that
it was too late.
An exception was saved as to the taking of notes -by A juryman; but, as
the record does not show that any notes were taken, there is nothing for
it to rest on.
On the trial of the president of a national bank, indicted for misapplication
of its funds, its cashier testified in his favor as to his financial condition
and standing. He was then asked-" do you know what his commercial
rating was at that time?" The question being objected to was ruled
out. Held, that the ruling was correct.
The same witness on cross-examination was asked why he had resigned
his position as cashier at a date named, which was after the acts corA-

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
plalned of and before the indictment. The question being objected to
was admitted. Held, that there was no error in this.
The question at issue being what was the defendant's knowledge and opinion of his own financial coirdition evidence as to the opinion of others on
that point was properly excluded.
The opinions of the financial world as to the rating or standing of the defendant when the acts complained of were committed were not admissible In evidence.
In criminal cases, the burden of establishing guilt rests on the prosecution
from the beginning to the end of the trial, but when a prima facie case
has been made out, the necessity of adducing evidence then devolves on
the accused.
The instruction of the trial court to the jury in this case that " if you find
that the defendant placed that wich was worthle'ss or of little value
among the assets of the bank at a greatly exaggerated value and had that
exaggerated value placed to his own personal account upon the books of
the bank, from such finding of fact you must necessarily infer that the
Intent with which he did that act was to injure or defraud the bank, but
this inference or presumption is not necessarily conclusive," was not error.
The trial court is not bound to accept language which counsel employ in
framing instructions, nor to repeat instructions already given in different language.
The court instructed the jurv that "the crime of making false entries by
an officer of a national bank with the intent to defraud, defined in the
Revised Statutes of the United States, section 5209, includes any entry
on the boos of the bank which is intentionally made to represent what
is not true or does not exist, with the intent either to deceive its officers
or to defraud the association. The crime mav be committed personally
or by direction. Therefore the entry of a slip upon the books of the
bank, if the matter contained in that deposit slip is not true, is a false
entry. If the statement made upon the deposit slips is false, the entry
of it in the bank and the books of the bank is false" and refused to give
the follo*ing, asked for by defendant; "The making of a false entrv is
a concrete offence which It not committed where the transaction entered
actually took place and is entered exactly as it occurred.
The truthful entry of a transaction charged as fraudulent' does not constitute a
false entry within the meaning of the statute." Held, that there was no
error.
The evidence or want of evidence justified the refusals to give the instructions requested by defendant's counsel, and referred to in No. 10, in the
opinion of this court; and in regard to those referred to in No. 11, the
true view of this branch of the case was fairly covered by the charge of
the trial court..

PLurFF in error.was indicted in the United States Circuit

Court for the Southern District of Florida for violation of
section 5209 of the Revised Statutes, which is as follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"SEc. 5209. Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk
or agent of any association, who embezzles, abstracts or wilfully misapplies any of the moneys, funds or credits of the
association, or who, without authority from the directors,
issues or puts in circulation any of the notes of the association, or who, without such authority, issues or puts forth any
certificate of deposit, draws any order or bill of exchanger
makes any acceptance, assigns any note, bond, draft, bill of
exchange, mortgage, judgment or decree, or who makes any
false entry in any book, report or statement of the association,
with intent, in either case, to injure or defraud the association
or any other company, body politic or corporate, or any individual person, or to deceive any officer of the association,
or any agent appointed to examine the affairs of any such
association, and every person who with like intent aids or
abets any officer, clerk or agent in any violation of this section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
imprisoned not less than five years nor more than ten."
The indictment contained eight counts, charging that Agnew,
being president of the First National Bank of Ocala, Florida,
unlawfully misapplied the moneys, funds and credits of the
bank with intent to convert them to his own use, and to injure and defraud the bank, by causing a check for $3400
belonging to the bank to be entered as a credit on his personal account with the bank, his account at the time being
largely overdrawn, and he being largely indebted to it That
he caused a false entry of $3400 to be made to his credit on
the books of the bank by means of a, false deposit slip which
he caused to be made in his own favor with the intent on his
part to injure and defraud the association That he embezzled
and converted to his own use, with the intent to injure and
defraud the association, moneys and assets thereof to the
amount of $2600 That he unlawfully misapplied the moneys,
funds and credits of the association with intent to convert
them to his own use, and with intent to injure and defraud
the association, in this, that he purchased for the bank certain
bonds of the par value of $5000, of the Globe Phosphate
Mining and Manufacturing Company, paying for them the

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

sum of $2500, and, without the-knowledge and consent of
the banking association, placed the bonds among its assets,
and caused them to be credited to his personal account on
the books of the bank at the sum of $5000, knowing the
bonds to be entirely worthless and of no commercial* value,
and thus wilfully misapplied the moneys, funds and credits of
the bank to the amount of $2500, and converted the same to
his own use That he feloniously embezzled and converted
to his own use $7500 of the moneys, funds and credits of the
bank with intent to injure and defraud it That he unlawfully
and wilfully misapplied the moneys, funds and credits of the
bank, with intent to convert the same to his own use and to
injure and defraud the bank by purchasing, acting ostensibly
for it, certain bonds of the Globe Phosphate Mining and Manufacturing Company of the par value of $10,000, for, $2500,
and, without the knowledge and consent of the bank, placing
said bonds among the assets of the bank as 'a part thereof,
and causing the sum of $10,000 'to be credited to his own
personal account on the books of the bank, he then and there
well knowing that the bonds were worthless and of no commercial value, and thus wilfully misapplying and converting
to his own use $7500 of the moneys, funds and credits of the
association That he embezzled and converted to his own use,
with intent.to injure and defraud the association, $7500 of
the bank's moneys and assets That he unlawfully and wilfully misapplied the moneys, funds and credits .of the bank
with intent to convert the same to Ins own use and to injure
and defraud the bank by pur6hasing $10,000 of the Globe
Phosphate Mining and Manufacturing Company's bonds for
$2500, placing tnem without the knowledge and consent of
the association among the assets of the association at $10,000,
and causing the sum of $10,000 to be placed to his personal credit on the books of the association, knowing said
bonds to be worthless and of no commercial value, thus wilfully misapplying and converting to his own use $7500 -of
the moneys, funds and credits of the bank with the aforesaid
intent.
The indictment was returned December 12, and plaintiff in

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

error was arraigned December 17, 1895, and filed a plea in
abatement as follows
"And the said Enoch W Agnew in his own proper person
comes into court here and, having heard the said indictment
read, says that the grand jury which found said indictment
was an illegal grand jury, in this, that after sixteen-had failed
to attend upon the regular venire the court ordered that a
special venire issue for ten grand jurors to be drawn according
to law, said grand -jurors so ordered by the court were directed to.be taken fronl the county qf Duval, that the clerk
and marshal in drawing said venire, whenever a name was
legally drawn from the box, if said party so drawn was not
from the countyof Duval, laid aside said name and continued
drawing until ten names from the county of Duval were obtained, and which illegal drawing of said vemre tended to
the prejudice of this defendant, and the court, on excusing
three returned on the second veire, ordered that four names
be drawn for jurors to complete the panel, that said jurors
were ordered to be drawn from the box, and the clerk and
marshal drawing the same were ordered to take those that
were from Duval County as they came from the box, and
the said clerk alid marshal, as the names were drawn, rejected
and did not place on the venire said names so drawn, but rejected and laid them aside until names came out of the box
of parties resident of Duval County, which drawing was
illegal and tended to the prejudice of the defendant, and,
upon said venire being returned showing A. K. Leon and
Julius.Kaufman summoned and Alex. Sabel and Frank Robinson not found, the court ordered .that four names be drawn
from the box and in said order directed that said four names
should be taken from the county of Duval, that the said
United States marshal and clerk- in obedience to said order,
drew from 'the box more than four names, and where the
names were of persons not resident of Duval County rejected
and laid them aside and continued drawing until Dennis A.
.Andreu, Benjamin F Manier, John L. Marvin; and Samuel
Morris were drawn, and so John L. Marvin, John E. Onley,
Z. L. Anderson, Charles E. Bell, W G. Candlish, A. R, Paxon,

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion ofithe Court.

and Dennis A. Andreu were drawn illegally by said -marshal
and clerk and not in accordance with the statute of the United
States in such case made and provided, which requires that
where less than sixteen attend the court shall order the marshal to summon from the body of the district, and not from
the bystanders, a sufficient number of persons to complete the
grand jury And so the names of many persons 'who were
duly drawn from the jury-box were not placed upon the
venire, but were, in the pursuance of the aforesaid orders,
after being drawn from the box, rejected and laid aside by
the clerk and marshal drawing the same for the purpose of
completing the grand jury from-the residents of the county of
Duval, and the defendant says that he was entitled to have
the said grand jury completed according to law, and the said,
grand jury so empanelled and sworn as aforesaid was not
drawn and empauelled in accordance with the statutes of the
United States providing for the drawing and empanelling of
grand juries, but was illegal, and this defendant says thatsuch drawing tended to his injury and prejudice.
"Wherefore he prays judgment of the said indictment, and
that the same may be quashed."
To this plea the United States filed a demurrer, and issue
being joined thereon, the court, after argument, held the plea
insufficient, to which plaintiff in error excepted and pleaded
not guilty The cause was set for trial on January 3, on.
which day a jury was empanelled, the trial -proceeded with,
and a verdict of guilty returned January 7. Motions for new
trial and in arrest of judgment were submitted and denied;
and sentence thereupon pronounced and the cause "Brought
here on writ of error.
Mr .Eleazer K. Fo8ter for plaintiff in error.
Hr Solicitor General for defendants in error.
Mi-. Cmi JusTic. FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Nineteen errors were assigned, of which the third, fifth,
ninth and fourteenth were abandoned, and the sixth and
seventh, the twelfth, sixteenth and seventeenth, and the.eleventh and fifteenth were argued by counsel for plaintiff in
error together. We will examine these alleged errors in their
order.
1. That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer to defendant's *plea in abatement.
Section -802 of the Revised Statutes is as follows "Jurors
shall be returned from such parts of the district, from time
to time, as the court shall direct, so as to be most favorable
to an impartial trial, aiid so as not to incur an unnecessary
expense, or unduly to, burden the citizens of any part of the
district with such- services."
Under section- 803, writs of ventre-fauz, when directed by
the court, -were to issue from the clerk's office and be served
and returned by the marshal in person or by his deputy, or in
case the marshal or his deputy were incapacitated, by some fit
person.specially. appointed by the court.
By section .8041,.when, from challenges or otherwise, there
was not a petit jury, it was provided that the marshal or his
deputy should, by order of the court, return jurymen from the
-bystanders sufficient td complete the panel.
Sectiont 808 ' eads thus - "Every grand, jury empanelled
before any disfrict or circuit court -shall consist of" not less
than sixteen nor more than twenty-three persons. If-of the
persons summoned less than sixteen attend, they shall be
placed on the grand jury, and the court shall order the marshal to summon, either immediately or for a day fixed, from
the body.of the district, and not from the bystanders, a Sufficient number of persons to complete the grand jury And
whenever a challenge to a grand juror is allowed, and there
are not in attendance other jurors sufficient to complete the
grand -jury, the- court shall make a like order to the marshal
to summon a sufflcient number of persons for that purpose."
By the act of 'June 30, 1879, c. 52, 21 Stat. 43, it was pro,
,vided-that all- jurors, grand and petit, "including those summoned during the session of the court, shall be publicly drawn

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.,
Opinion of the Court.

from a- box containing, at the time of each drawing, the names
of not less than three hundred persons, possessing the qualifications prescribed in section eight hundred of the Revised
Statutes, which names shall have been placed therein by the
clerk of such court and a commissioner, to be appointed by
the judge thereof.
The clerk and said commissioner each
to place one name in said box alternately, without reference
to party affiliations, until the whole number required shall be
placed therein. But nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any judge from ordering the names of jurors
to be drawn from the boxes used by the state authorities, in
selecting jurors in the highest courts of the State."
The plea sets up as ground for abatement of the indictment
that after the original venire bad been exhausted without obtaining sixteen grand jurors, the court ordered a special venire
to issue for ten grand jurors to be drawn according to law,
"to be taken from the county of Duval, that the clerk and
marshal in drawing said venire, whenever a name was legally
drawn from the box, if said party so drawn was not from the
county of Duval, laid aside said name and continued drawing
until ten names from the county of Duval were obtained,"
and that some of the ten returned on the second venire being
excused, other names were drawn in the same way, and a third
vemre was issued, and still another, until the grand jury was
completed with grand jurors from Duval County The original venire showed that twenty-three persons were summoned
from ten counties, not including the county of Duval, one or
more from each, and the plea stated that when a deficiency
appeared from the failure of some of those summoned to attendi, the court directed the deficiency to be made up by obtaming jurors from Duval County in the manner pointed out.
There are certain orders of court certified as part of the record,
which directed the drawing according to law from the various
counties exclusive of Duval County, and then from that county
It will be perceived then that the jurors were all drawn from
the body of the district, and so distributed as not to incur unnecessary expense, or unduly burden the citizens of any part
of the district with jury service.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 802 of the Revised Statutes was brought forward
from a clause of section 29 of the judiciary act of September
24, 1789, which was regarded by Mr. Justice Curkis as applicable to grand as well as petit juries. Unsted State v Stowell,
2 Curtis, 153. In that view we are inclined to concur, but apart
from this, and without considering how far, if at all, the section may have been modified by the act of June 30, 1879, we
think the plea was properly adjudged insufficient.
Such a plea must be pleaded with strict exactness. United
States v. .Hammond,2" Woods, 197, O'Connell v. Beg., 11 C1.
& Fin. 155, -Dolanv. People, 64 N. Y 485, Jenons v. State,
.35 Florida, 737, .McClary v State, 75 Indiana, 260, Whart.
Cr. P1. & Pr. § 427, iBishop New Cr. Pro. §§ 327,745.
-Dr. Wharton. rays it down (Whart. Cr.: P1. & Pr. §§ 344,
.350) that "material irregularities in selecting and empanelling
the grand jury, which do not relate to the competency of in-dividual jurors, may usually be objected to by challenge to
the.array,- or by motion to quash," or by plea in abatement,
that the question of the mode in which such objections are
to *be taken largely depends -upon local statutes, but that
•certain rules may be regarded as generally applicdble. One
-of these. rules is that the defendant must take the first opportunity in his power to make the objection. Where he is noti*fled that hi. case is to be brought before the grand jury, he
should proceed at once to take -exception to its competency,
for if he lies by until a bill is found, the exception may be too
late, but where he-has had no opportunity of objecting before
bill found, then he may take advantage of the objection by
motion -to quash or by plea in abatement, the latter in all cases
of conteted fact being the proper remedy United States v.
Gale, 109 U. S. 65. Another general rule is that for such
irregularities as do not prejudice the defendant, he has no
-,cause of complaint, and can take no exception. United States
v. Richardson, 28 Fed. Rep. 61, United States v. Reed, 2
Blatchford, 435, 456,, United States v. Tallman, 10 Blatchford, 21, 51, Stdte v. Mellor, 13' R. I. 666, Cox v People, 80
N..Y. 500, People v. Petrea,92 N. Y 128.
.The original venire was issued November 18, the second

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

venire issued December 2, 1895. The court opened December
3, 1895, and the indictment was returned December 12, yet
defendant did not file his plea m abatement until December L7.
The plea does not allege want of knowledge of threatened
prosecution on the part of defendant, nor want of opportunity
to present his objection earlier, nor assign any ground why
exception was not taken or objection madebefore,. and, moreover, the plea is fatally defective in that, although it is stated
that the drawing "tended to his injury and prejudice," n&
grounds whatever are assigned for such a conclusion, nor does
the record exhibit any such.
2. That the c~urt erred in allowing the jurors to take notes.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that one of the jurymen asked the court if he "could take notes and jot down
any items on paper," and that the court responded. "Certainly, you have-a right to assist your memory in any way
that is consistent with your conscience." To which defendant excepted. The court subsequently admonished the jury
that this was simply for the personal convenience of tfie juror
that he wished them to understand that their memory and
recollection of the testimony were to control in arriving at a.
-verdict; and that they should not be ifluenced. in the lehst.
by the juror's notes.
The exception saved was to the permission to take notes
and not to the use of them in the. jury-room. But the record.
does not show that any notes were taken, and there is nothing for the exception to rest on.
3. That the court erred in refusing to allow the witness
McIntyre to answer this question propounded by defendant's
counsel "Do you know what his [Agnew's] commercial rating was at that time P
McIntyre was cashier-of the First National Bank of Ocala.
at the time of the alleged criminal misapplication of its funds,
4nd had testified fully, on behalf of plaintiff in error, as to
his financial condition and standing, when he was asked this
question. We hold the ruling of the court correct. The point.
of inquiry was Agnew's actual financial condition or what he
knew or must be held to have known or actually and with

.OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

reason believed that it was, and his commercial rating was
not relevant.
4. That the court erred in allowing the witness McIntyre
to be asked on cross-examination why he resigned as oaslier
of .the bank in June, 1894, and in permitting him to answer
the question.
The criminal acts charged in the indictment were alleged
to have been committed in January, February and May, 1894.
McIntyre was cashier of the bank during that period, and his
resignation of that officewas not accepfed until June, 11 94.
The ground assigned for the objection was that the testimony
was immaterial, and the court said "That might be relevant
and 'might not. If he resigned because he knew that Mr.
Agnew's guarantee was not goodfor anything, that might be
relevant."
The record thus continues.
"Q. Didn't you attempt to resign as cashier of that bank
previous to the time when you did actually resign ? A. Yes
sir. I offered my resignation at the -regular annual meeting
-of the stockholders in January, 1894. Q. I will ask you why
you tendered your resignation at that time. as cashier of that.
bank? The defendant renewed his objection to this question
as immaterial, but the court overruled the objection and
allowed the question to be answered, to which decision of
the court the defendant excepted. A. I cannot state any one
particular or special reason .for tendering, it. In' 1893, dur.
ing the time when all banks were having hard times, oP course
the banks here haid hard times, and I just simply made up
my mind then that until things got back to their normal con,dition again I was going to get out of that business right
there. Q. So that your reason was just because you wanted
to quit the banking business. A. I would not say that that
was the reason. Q. What we want is the reason. A. I
would state "that, of course, it is very apparent I was not altogether satisfied with the business, that is my reason for giving it up', I was not satisfied. I cannot state any particular.
Q. You were not satisfied with the business or the manner
in which the 'business was conducted, which 2 Defendant ex-

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cepted to this question. By the court To pufsue that line
of questioning would be bringing rather irrelevant and general
matters which might possibly influence the jury and which
might not be relevant in this issue unless he can state some
definite thing. Mr. Clark (district attorney) I will ask a
straight question. Q. I will ask you if it is not true that you
tendered your resignation and made up your mind to quit the
service of the bank on account of the acts and doings of %ar.
Agnew, president of the bank, similar to this bond transaction. The defendant objected to this question as immaterial
and leading, but the court overruled the objection and allowed
the question to be answered, to which decision of the court
the defendant excepted. A. As I said, there was no one
special reason that I could mention that caused my resignation. By the court If you cannot state anything definite, the
court does not want any general information or implication."
We think there was no error committed in this regard.
This witness was the officer next in rank to the president.
He had testified on defendant's behalf and his personal action
was relevant on cross-examination as testing his testimonyinchief. If his voluntary resignation had no connection with
the conduct of his superior officer, his answer could not be
injurious. If it had, then that fact tended to weaken any
evidence he might have given in extenuation of the action of
that officer. Besides, these answers of the witness were practically immaterial.
5. That the court erred in refusing to allow the witness
Barnett to testify as to whether he considered Agnew's
guarantee of $20,000 Globe Phosphate bonds, at the time he
made it, good, and in striking out the testimony of the witness,
and in not allowing the witness Stewart to testify as to the
rating, by Dun's Commercial Agency, of Agnew at the time
.he gave the guarantee of $20,000.
McIntvre had testified that he had made out two deposiT
tickets in favor of Agnew and at his request, one dated February 12 and the other Mfay 12, 1894, crediting him with depositing $10,000 in bonds in each instance, that the bonds
referred to were Globe Phosphate bonds, that he had the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds in his possession when he made out the deposit slips,
that the bonds were for $10,000 each, that Mr. Agnew asked
him to give him credit for the bonds, $10,000 each time, .that.
in each instance Mr. Agnew stated that""he would be personally responsible to the bank that these bonds would be all
right. He would guarantee the bank both principal and interest, that he would make a written guarantee at any time
I would write it out." Witness further identified a guarantee
dated February 12, 1894, as written by him, and. signed by
Agnew in his presence, which was read in evidence.
The witness Barnett was president of the lNationva Bank
of Jacksonville, Florida, and was called as a witness on behalf
of defendant. The question put to him was "Are you. sufficiently acquainted with Mr. Agnew's itanding in the spring
of 1894 to festify as to whether or not you considered his
obligation, guarantee or indorsement at that time good for
$20,000? M,, Clark. Wait a moment. A. Yes, sir, I considered him good.". The government asked that this answer
be stricken otit. The court said "Any testimony that 'would
show positively the financial condition of Mr. Agnew at that
tine, not in the commercial world - the opinion of what his
guarantee would be taken for by others -is not a true test
of what he knew himself. The opinion of others as to his
standing at that time I do not think should be introduced to
determine the value of that guarantee", and sustained the
motion. The court was right in this ruling. On the question
of value to Agnew's knowledge, Barnett's opinion of Agnew's
responsibility was irrelevant.
The witness Stewart was the agent of R. G. Dun &'Co., a
commercial agency, in charge at Jacksonville, Florida. Defendant offered to show, that Dun's Commercial Agency rated
him at that time at a certain amount of money The court
declined to admit the evidence, and correctly ruled
"The question in this case is what was his intent, and he
knew himself what that guarantee was worth, and that guarantee was worth just as much as he would be able to make it
worth in a case of emergency The question here is not how
much Mr. Agnew was worth, but the question is how much

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

he knew himself to be worth at that time and how good he
knew his guarantee was. I consider in that case that if he had
good grounds to believe that he was perfectly able to comply
with that guarantee in every way and according to his own
financial condition at that time- had no doubt in his own
mind -I will admit that such positive evidence as that might
be relevant to go to the jury to show he had no intent to injure.
or defraud the bank, but what the opinions of the financial
world were in regard to his condition is not the best evidence."
6. The tenth .assignment alleged error in several distinct
parts of the charge of the court, but in argument only one
out of six exceptions saved thereto was relied on, namely, to
the following.
The court advised the jury that in determining defendant's
intent they might consider testimony tending to show that
defendant, without notice to the board of directors, and without their knowledge or consent, had invested one half the
bank's capital in the bonds in question, and then said "The
rule of law in regard to intent is that intent to defraud is to
be inferred from wilfully and knowingly doing that which is
illegal, and which, in its necessary consequences and results,
must injure another. The intent may be presumed from the
doing of the wrongful or fraudulent or illegal act, and in this
case, if you find that the defendant placed that which was
worthless or of little value among the assets of the bank t
a greatly exaggerated value and had. that exaggerated value
placed to his own personal account upon the books of the
bank, from such finding of fact you must necessarily infer
that the intent with which he did that act was to injure or
defraud the bank, but this inference or presumption is not
necessarily conclusive. There may be- other evidence which
may satisfy the jury that there .was no such intent, but such
an inference or presumption throws the burden of proof upola
the defendant, and the evidence upon him in rebuttal to. do
away with that presumption of guilty intent must be sufficiently strong to satisfy you beyond a reasonable doubt that
there was no such guilty intent m such transaction."
Undoubtedly, in criminal cases, the burden of establishing
VOL. cLxv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

guilt rests on the prosecution from the beginning to the end
of the trial.
But when a przmafacze case has been made out, as conviction follows unless it be rebutted, the necessity of adducing
evidence then devolves on the accused.
The Circuit Court, in this part of the charge, was dealing
with the intent to injure and defraud the. bank, and rightly
instructed the jury that, if they found certain facts, such intent was necessarily to be inferred therefrom.
This was m application of the presumption that a person
intends the natural and probable consequences of acts intentionally done, and that an unlawful act implies an unlawful
intent. 1 Greenl. Ev. § 18, 3 Green]. Ev § 13, 14, Jones
on Ev.§ 23, Bishop Cr. Proc. § 1100, 1101, and cases cited.
The Circuit Court, however, told the jury that the presumption of the intent to injure and defraud, if the facts were
found as stated, was not conclusive, but, in substance, that
its strength was such that it could only be overcome by evidence that created a reasonable doubt of its correctness; in
other 'words,-that as-the presumption put the intent beyond
reasonable doubt, it must prevail, unless evidence of at least
.eruiiVlent weight were adduced to the contrary
The question of the particular intent was not treated as a
question of law, but as a question to be submitted to the jury,
and conceding that the statement of the court that the evidence to overcome the presumption must be sufficiently strong
to satisfy thrjury "beyond a reasonable doubt" was open to
objection for want of accuracy, we are unable to perceive that
this could have tended to prejudice the defendant when the
charge is considered as a whole.
For the jury were further advised that if they found the
facts in question, which were again rehearsed, then the necessary inference was that the transaction was effected "with
intent to injure and defraud said bank, and such inference can
only be overcome by evidence satisfactory to you that there
was no such intent", that "the question of the intent is to be
determined by the facts and circumstances and the surrounding6at the time of the transaction ", that "the intent of the

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.

51

Opinion of the Court.

,defendant at the time he committed the transaction is the
question for you to determine, and in arriving at a conclusion
on that intent you will carefilly weigh all of the testimony
in the case", that the presumption of innocence remains with
the defendant until the jury are "satisfied of the guilt beyond
a reasonable doubt", and that "if you are satisfied beyond a
reasonable doubt that the transactions as charged were committed, and at the time he committed those transactions he had
an intent to defraud the bank, your verdict will be one of guilty
Unless you are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that he
had such intent, your verdict will be not guilty" And again
"The jury must be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt as
regards the guilt of the accused before they can find a verdict
of guilty By a reasonable doubt is not meant a possible
doubt, but such a doubt arising.from the evidence that leaves
the minds of the jury in such a state that they cannot say,
after having reviewed all the evidence, that they have an
abiding conviction, to a moral certainty, of the guilt of the
accused."
7. That the court erred in giving to the jury the following
instruction "The defendant is presumed to be innocent of all
the charges against him until he isproven guilty by the evidence submitted to you. This presumption remains with the
defendant until such time in the progress of the case that you
are satisfied of the guilt beyond a reasonable doubt", and
in not giving the following instruction asked by defendant
"Every man is presumed to be innocent until he is proved
guilty, and this legal presumption of innocence is to 'be regarded by the jury in this case as matter of evidence to the
benefit of which the party is entitled. This presumption is to
be treated by you as evidence giving rise to resulting proof to
the full extent of its legal efficacy"
The court is not bound to accept the language which counsel employ in framing instructions, nor is it bound to repeat
instructions already given in different language. Ayer v
Watwon, 137 U. S. 584, Grand Tr'unk Railway v. Ies, 144
U. S. 408, Coffln v United States, 162 U. S. "664,672. The
instruction given was quite correct and substantially covered

OCTOBER TER,

'1896.

Opinion of the Court.

the instruction refuted, ind as to the latter the court might
well hie declined to give it on the ground of the tendency
of its closing sentence to mislead.
In Cofin v Unied ates, 156 U. S. 432, 460, this court, in
discussing the distinction between the presumption of innocence and reasonable doubt, said "The fact that the presumption of innocence is recognized as a presumption of law
and is characterzea by the civilians as a Presumptio ju'ts,
demonstrates that it is evidence in favor of the accused. For
in all systems of law legal presumptions are treated as evidence giving rise to resulting proof to the full extent of their
legal efficacy" But in that case the charge of the court was
thought not to have given due effect to the presumption of
innocence, which there was no failure in this case to state, and
the giving of the -inAstruction asked vould have tended to obscure what had already been made plain.
8. That the court erred in giving the following instruction
on behalf of the government
"The crime of making false entries by an officer of a na.
*tional bank with the mtent to defraud, defined in the Revised
Statutes of the United States, section 5209, includes any entry
on the books of the bank which is intentionally made to represent what is not true or does not exist, with the intent either
to deceive its officers or to defraud the association. The crime
may be committed personally or by directiom"
The exceptron was confined to the foregoing, but the instruction thus continued
"Therefore the entry of a slip upon the books of the bank,
if the matter contained in that deposit slip is not true, is a
false entry If the statement made upon the deposit slip is
false, the entry-of it in the bank and* the books of the bank
-is false."
And in refusing to give the following instructions asked by
defendant
"The making of a false entry is a concrete offence which is
no t committed -where the transaction entered actually took
place and is entered exactly as it occurred."
"'The truthful entry of a transaction charged as fraudulent

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opiumn ;f the Court.

does not constitute a false entry within tho 'meaning of the
statute."
The instruction as given was correct, and in accordance with
the rule indicated in Coffin v Unded Stats, 162 U. S. 664.
This being so, no error was committed in declining to giye the
others.
9. That the court erred in giving the following instruction.
"The law presumes that every man intends the legitimate
consequence of his own acts. Wrongful acts knowingly or
intentionally committed can neither be justified- or excused on
the ground of innocent intent. The color of the act determines the complexion of the ntent. The intent to injure or
defraud is presumed when the unlawful act, which results in
loss or injury, is proved to have been knowingly committed.
It is a well-settled rule, which the law applies in both criminal
and civil cases, that the intent is-presumed and inferred from
the result of the action. If, therefore, the funds, moneys or
credits of the First National Bank of Ocala are shown to
have been either embezzled or wilfully misapplied by the
accused and converted to his own use, whereby, as a necessary,
natural or legitimate consequence, the association's capital
was reduced or placed beyond the control of the directors or
its ability to meet its engagements or obligations or to continue its business was lessened or destroyed, the intent to injure or defraud the bank may be presumed."
In our opimon there was evidence tending to establish a
tate of case jistifying the giving of this instruction, which
was unexceptionable as matter of law
10. That the court erred in refusing to give the following
instruction requested by defendant
"If the jury shall find from the evidence that on the 15th
day of April, A.D. 1895, E. W Agnew, upon receipt of the
check of the Merchants' National Bank of Savannah for
.$3400, used that check and.the proceeds of it for the payment
of a debt of the First National Bank of Ocala, then they must
find upon that count in the indictngnt that he did not fraudu-.
lently embezzle or, misapply the check or the proceeds of it."
The first count of the indictment charged that Agnew,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896..
Opinion of the Court.

knowing his personl account with the bank to be largely
-bverdrawn and that he was largely indebted to the banj.
-,'caused this check for $3400, which was the property of the
bank, to be entered to his personal credit on the books of the
bank and thereby made it subject to his disposal, and technically the offence would not have been, in itself, condoned by
any rightful application which he may have made of that
particular amount of money And while the evidence showed
that the $3400 was received from the sale of stocks belonging
to the bank,. it also showed that Agnew never charged himself with the $3400 and credited stock account, nor paid in
that sum and made that credit, but that when the bank failed
the $3400 still stood as applied. on Agnew's credit and still
reiiained an asset in the stock .account. Such explanation as
was attempted was so unsatisfactory that we do not think the
refusal of the instruction constitutes reversible error.
11. That the court erred in not giving the following in.struction asked-for by defendant
"That the written guarantee introduced and filed in evidence, signed by E. W Agnew, and conditioned for the
payment of the interest and principal of the bonds of the
Globe Phosphate Mining Company was upon its face a good,
legal and sufficient guarantee, and that if the jury shall find
from the evidence that at the time of th delivery by E. W
Agnew to the cashier of the First National Bank of Ocala of
the bonds of the Globe Phosphate Mining Company in controversy-he also delivered the guarantee which has been introduced in evidence, and they shall further find from the
evidence that at the time said guarantee was signed and delivered that E. W Agnew, the defendaiit, was solvent and
thoroughly able to respond to the obligation, and that he
signed and delivered the guarantee with the knowledge of
his solvency and with intent to pay the same when demand
was made upon hiin for payment,, then the jury may find from
thp evidence that the defendant~did not invest or misapply
the money arising from the sale of the said bonds with intent
to defraud the association or any one else."
The Phosphate bonds were put in evidence and the record

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

should have contained: a copy of at least one of them, but it
does not, and instead there is a brief statement that they were
bonds of "the Globe Phosphate Mining and Manufacturing
Company, Citrus County, Florida, each of the value" of one
thousand dollars, payable in gold coin of the United States, in
ten years from date or on call, at or after the expiration of
two years-from date, drawing interest at eight per cent, sennannually, in gold coin, payable on the 15th day of December
and June in each year, according to tenor of coupons attached,
upon presentation and surrender of said coupons respectively,
default in payment of coupons and continuing default for two
months, the whole becomes due, all bearing even date and
of the same tenor and same term, ten years, executed in pursuance of vote of the stockholders and board of directors,
secured by first-mortgage bond upon all property .of even
date, present and future, acquired by the company, the right
to redeem after two years being optional with the company,
said bonds dated 11th December, 1893, signed by John A.
Bishop and Herbert A. Bishop, the original having been withdrawn by order of the court, to be returned to the receiver of
the First National Bank of Ocala."
Agnew's guarantee was in these words
"Know all men by these presents that for and in consideration of the sum of ($5) five dollars cash in hand paid by the
First National Bank of Ocala and for other good and valuable consideration I hereby guarantee to the said bank the
payment on demand of both principal and interest of fifteen
(15) bonds of the Globe Phosphate Mining and Manufacturing
Company, numbered from one (1) to five (5), both inclusive,
eleven (11) to fifteen (15), both inclusive, and twenty-one (21)
to twenty-five (25), both inclusive, for one thousand ($1000)
dollars each, total fifteen thousand (815,000) dollars, and bearing interest at the rate of eight (8%) per cent per annum. It
is agreed and understood that I hereby guarantee the payment of the principal of these bonds, payable on demand, with
acrued interest.
"This agreement and contract is to be binding on me, my
heirs, executors, administrators or assigns."

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

"Bonds of the Globe Phosphate Mining and Manufacturing
Co. Nos. 31,'33; 35, 37, 39, 41, 43, 46, 47,49, 51, 63, 55, 57, 59,
61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71, 73, 75, 77 and 79 are to be included in
the above guarantee, and I hereby guarantee principal and
interest on all of the above-described bonds."
The evidence was to the effect that five Globe Phosphate
bonds, numbered from one to five, were purchased by Agnew
for the bank at fifty cents on the dollar and credited at par.
But Agnew testified that he purchased them for himself. It
also appeared that two lots of Globe Phosphate bonds, of
$10,000 each, were purchased at twenty-five cents on the
dollar, and that Agnew was credited on his personal account
with $10,000, in each instance, and the bonds placed in the
assets of the bank, and that the bonds were subsequently sent
away to be used as collateral security, and the guarantee forwarded to be put with them. The evidence further tended to
show that the bonds were of little, if any, value, and that Mr.
Agnew's financial condition was such as to place his guarantee
in the same category And although Agnew testified on his
own behalf he did not refer to the subject of the guaranty, or
is intentions and ability in regard to it, while it appeared
that the credits of these bonds were never consented to nor
authorized at any meeting of the directors or stockholders.
The bonds were payable in ten years with an option to the
company to pay after two years, it being also provided that
for default in payment of interest, which was payable semiannually, continuing two months, the whole might become
due. If the president of the bank received a personal credit
of $20,000 for these bonds, under the circumstances disclosed,
the court was not required to instruct as requested that from
his guaranty that the bonds and interest should be paid, the
jury nnglht find that there was no intent to injure and defraud
the bank in the transaction.
The true view of this branch of the case was fairly covered
by the charge of the court as follows: " There is testimony
tending to show that the defendant at the time he was thus
depositing the bonds, gave a guarantee that the bonds were
good, and that he would guarantee the payment of principal

AGNEW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and interest. You can take that into consideration, and such
guarantee can only be considered as determining the value of
those bonds at that time and the intent of the party in such
transaction.
As I say again, gentlemen, the only difficult question for you to determine is the intent of the accused. The question of the intent is to be determined by the
facts and circumstances and the surroundings at the time of
the transaction, but, gentlemen, the law presumes that every
party who in any way attempts anything by any guarantee
or anything of that kind which is dependent upon future successful operations, takes the risk of the success, and that if a
person commits an offence with the intent of temporarily
injuring or defrauding another party or a banking institution,
although it may be his intent at the time to finally recompense or prevent any injury resulting from such act, he is not
protected by such intent to finally correct the temporary
wrong deed, or, in this case, if you are satisfied that at the
time he placed those bonds there he knew that they were,
worthless or of a very small value and had a large value
charged to the bank and placed to his account - if he did that
with the intent, for the time being, to injure the bank and
take a wrongful advantage of the credit of thebank, no matter
if at that time he had an intent to in the future remedy any
injury that might come to the bank, it would not protect him
in your finding or from your finding, what the intent was at
that time."
We have carefully explored the evidence and considered the
errors assigned, whether pressed in argument or not, and have
been unable to discover any adequate ground for the reversal
of the judgment.
udgmen armed.

