OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

In so instructing
order that he might slay his adversary
the jury no error was committed.
We find no error of law in the record to the prejudice
of the accused, and the judgment must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

EGAN v. HART.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIAINA.
Io. 63. Submitted October 2-,1896. -Decided

February 1, 1.39T.

On error to a state court in a chancery case (as also in a case at law), when
the facts are foundby the court below this court is concluded by such
findings.
On error to a state court the opinion of that court is to be treated as part
of the record, and it may be examined in order to ascertain the questions
presented, as may also be the entire record, if necessary to throw light
on the findings.
'The finding by the trial court, sustained by the Supreme Court of the State
that the stream across which the dam complained of was erected, was a
non-navigable stream, was a finding of fact which is conclusive here,
and affords ground broad enough on which to maintain the judgment
below, independent of any Federal question, and this court is consequently without jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr J C. Egan, Mr Fred Thatcher and Mr CJ. J Boatner
for plaintiffs in error.
.MrA. H. Leonard for defendants in error.
MR. JTUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error, by original and supplemental petitions, sued in order to perpetually enjoin the building, by the
board of state engineers of the State of Louisiana, of a dam
across an alleged stream, designated as Bayou Pierre. It was
averred that the construction would permanently impair the

EGAN v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

value of certain real property to the plaintiff belonging, situated in the vicinage of the proposed work, that it was a
purely private undertaking which the board of state engineers
was not authorized to do at public expense, and that the dike,
if carried out, would obstruct the na%ugation of Bayou Pierre,
and would therefore violate the laws of the United States.
The State of Louisiana, by intervention, and the defendants,
by answers, .traversed the averments of the petitions. There
was judgment in the trial court rejecting the plaintiffs' demand, which was, on appeal, affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State of Louisiana. 45 La. Ann. 1358. To the decree of
affirmance this writ of error is prosecuted.
The record before us contains all the te.stimony introduced
and evidence offered in the trial court, all of which was -open
for consideration and passed upon by the Supreme Court of
the State of Louisiana. On error, however, to a state court,
this court cannot reexamine the evidence, and when the facts
are found below is concluded by such finding. Dower v
.Rzckard, 151 U. S. 658, Bartlett v. Lockwood, 160 U. S.
357, Stanley v Schwalby, 162 U..S. 255, 278. True it is.that
in Dower v Rtchards the court (referring to the dictum in
Republican River Bridge Co. v .Kansas Paefi.c Railway,
92 U. S. 315, 317) treated as open for further consideration
the question whether in chancery cases the power existed in
this 'court to review the decision of state courts on both the
law and the fact. We, however, conclude that not only the
very nature of a; writ of error, but also the rulings of this
court from the beginning, make it clear that on error to a state
court in a chancery case, as in a case at law, when the facts
are found by the court below, this court is concluded by such
findings. The adjudications are collected very fully in Dower
v. Richards, and in the subsequent cases above referred to.
It is likewise settled that on error to the Supreme Court of
Louisiana the opinion of that court is to be treated as part of
the record, and that it may be examined in order to ascertain
the questions presented, and this court may for the purpose,
not of deciding the facts, but by way of throwing light on the
findings, look into the entire record. Crossley v New Orleans,

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

108 U S. 105, Gross v United States Mortgage Co., 108 U. S.
477.
Turning to the opinion of the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
-it is obvious that it held not only that under the law of Louisiana the board of state engineers was competent to undertake
the work in question, and any damage resulting to the plaintiff thereby was ablque znjur a, but that it also rested its decree
upon three propositions, two of fact and one of law, viz. First,
that the construction of the dam'was a public work jointly
undertaken by the government of the United States and the
board of state engineers of the State of Louisiana. Second,
that the stream across which the dam was to be erected was
not navigable, and was hence subject to state control. Third,
that even if navigable, as the stream was wholly within the
State of Louisiana, it was hence exclusively under the dominion of the state law The findings of the court on these subjects were thus expressed
"Speaking of the nature of the work, the district judge
says IIt is a public work, planned and located by state
authority, and is a part of a system of levees ordered by
the State for the prevention of overflows. It is the initial
point of a line of levees, the propriety, location and construction of which have been determined by the State, acting
through the state board of engineers, its accredited and duly
authorized agents. It begins on the highlands on the west
bank of the bayou and extends thence across the bayou to
Hart's Island, and from there to Dixie plantation, on Red
River.'
"The United States government has contributed four thousand dollars-a sum equal to the price of Hart's contract
with the State-toward the cost of construction of the line
of levees -of which the dam in question is a part. Manifestly
the claim that such a work undertaken by the State, with
the aid of the general government, is the work of private
persons for private and selfish motives is absolutely without
foundation.
"As to plaintiffs' contentio

that Bayou Pierre is a navi-

EGAN v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

gable stream, we have carefully considered the voluminous
testimony on that part of the case, and we are clear that
the upper part of Bayop Pierre, in which the clam in question is situated, is not navigable, and that the navigation of
even the lower part of Bayou Pierre, a considerable distance
below the dam, is attended with many obstacles and difficulties. On this point the district judge says 'From Grande
Ecore, where it (Bayou Pierre) enters Red River, to a point
some miles below its junction with Tone's Bayou, a stream
flowing out of the river, Bayou Pierre has been frequently
navigated by steamboats. But from the point of junction
to the dam in question it ias never been navigated and is
unnavigable. Between these two points it is nothing but a
high-water outlet, going dry every summer at many places,
choked with rafts and filled with sand, reefs, etc. It has no
channel, in various localities it spreads out into shallow lakes
and over a wide expanse of country, and is susceptible of
being made navigable just as a ditch could be if it were dug
deep and wide enough and kept supplied with a sufficiency
of water.' We fully-concur in this finding. Besides, Bayou
Pierre is wholly within the State, and the authority of the
legislature over it is complete. Hamilton v. 1?. .R. Co., 34
An. 975, Boyk-rzn v 87lafer, 13 An. 129."
Now, the foregoing findings, by the trial court, approved
and affirmed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, that is, the
non-navigability of the stream, and the concurrent participation of the United States and the State in the building of
the dam, are purely questions of fact, and, therefore, as we
have said, are conclusive.
It is clear that if these questions of fact are adequate to
determine the controversy between the parties, and broad
enough to maintain the judgment independent of any Federal
question, then we are without jurisdiction, although the state
court may have also decided such a question. .Eustss v
Bolles, 150 U. S; 361, .N Y & N -E.Railroad v Woodruf,
153 U. S. 689, Hammond v. Conn. Maut. Lfe hns. Co., 150
U. S. 633.
The claim is that the court below erroneously decided a

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Federal question, which it is asserted is absolutely necessarv
to maintain its decree independently of the conclusions by
it expressed on the foregoing propositions of fact. This argument is deduced from that portion of the decision below
which held, that even if the stream was navigable it was
nevertheless competent for the state authority to obstruct
or entirely close it. because, being wholly within the State,
it was under its exclusive jurisdiction and authority Such
power, it is argued, if ever possessed by the State, depended
solely on. the absence of Congressional legislation, asserting
the reserved authority of the general government over all
navigable streams, including even those wholly within a State,
and therefore ceased to exist from the enactment by Congress
of the law of September 19, 1890, c. 907, 26 Stat. 426, 454.
By thestatute relied on Congress forbade the construction of
"any bridge
or other works over or in any
navigable waters of the United States under any act of the
legislative assembly of any State, until the location and plan
of such bridge or other works have been submitted to and
approved by the Secretary of War, or to excavate or fill or
in any manner alter or modify the course, location, condition
or capacity of the channel of said navigable waters of the
United States, unless approved by the Secretary of War."
But by its plain terms this statute relates solely to navigable
waters, and one of the propositions of fact found by the
Supreme Court of the State is that the stream in question
was not navigable. The necessary effect, therefore, of accepting this finding is to take the case out of the reach of the
law relied on, and this causes the question of fact., that is,
non-navigability, to be wholly and adequately sufficient to
maintain the judgment without reference to the statute in
question.
It is sought to avoid this inevitable conclusion by contending that the fact found below is not that the stream was
non-navigable,but only that it was so at the particular place
where the dike was proposed to be built. Non-navigabilitv
at the particular place, it is argued, does not exclude the inplication that the impeding of the water at that point would

EGAN v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

obstruct the flow of water and injure the navigable stream
below the dam, thereby bringing the case directly under the
terms of the statute.. But this construction of the finding
below is entirely too narrow An examination of the record
and a consideration of the entire context of the opinion of
the Supreme Court of the State makes it clear that the whole
controversy below was whether the dam, if erected at the
particular place in question, would affect or injure the navigability of the stream below, and that the finding of fact
that the stream was not navigable at the point where the
dam was to be erected, was substantially a conclusion that
the erection of the dam bore no relation to and would have
no effect in obstructing the navigation of the stream known
as Bayou Pierre below the dam, and which stream the court
recognized as being navigable in a qualified sense.
The
record discloses that Bayou Pierre leaves the Red River a
short distance below the city of Shreveport, and, after a long
and meandering course, regnters the Red River just above
the town of Grande Ecore. The proposed dam crosses Bayou
Pierre a short distance from the point where it leaves Red
River. Below the point of the dam a stream, known as
Tone's Bayou, which also flows out of the Red River, empties
into and forms a junction with Bayou Pierre. The portion
of the bayou which the court found to be occasionally navigable was that below the junction of Tone's Bayou. As to
the portion above the junction of Tone's and Bayou Pierre,
that is, in the direction of the dam, the finding of fact is
as follows "Between these two points it is nothing but a
high-water outlet, going dry every summer at many places,
choked with rafts and filled with sand, reefs, etc. It has no
channel, in various localities it spreads out into shallow
lakes and over a wide expanse of country, and is susceptible
of being navigable .just as a ditch could be if it were dug
deep and wide enough and kept supplied with a sufficiency
of water." The obvious effect of this finding is that the
qualified navigability existing in Bayou Pierre below the
inflow into that stream of the water from Tone's Bayou,
is wholly uninfluenced by water leaving Red River by way
VOL. CLXv-i3

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

of the upper mouth of Bayou Pierre. Indeed, the finding
amounts to saying, that the stream formed by the junction
of Bayou Pierre and Tone's Bayou is a new and in reality
a distinct and different stream (although called by the same
name) from the stream above the junction, and in which it
is proposed to erect the dam. From these considerations it
obviously results that the expression of opinion arguendo by
the state court as to the power of the State of Louisiana to
control a navigable stream wholly within its borders, even
if erroneous, was unnecessary to the decision of the cause,
and that the decree by that court rendered is adequately
sustained by the conclusion of fact as to the non-navigability
of the stream. This being the case, it is unnecessary to consider whether the finding that the work of building the dam
was concurrently carried on by the State and the United
States is not also sufficient to sustain the decree below, since
it practically determines that the dam was being constructed
in conformity to the act of Congress.
Ikwmw~8edfor want ofju~rm.&iction.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. OHIO STATE
AUDITOR.1
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
MTo.
3.

Argued December 10, 11, 1896. -Decided

February 1, 1691.

The decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio entertaining jurisdiction of this
case, and delivering a considered opinion, State v, Jones, 51 Ohio St.
I The docket title of this case is "Henry Sanford, President of the Adams
Express Company, Appellant; v. Ebenezer W Poe, Auditor of the State of
Ohio, et al." The opinion of the court is entitled in this case and In No. 338,
Henry Sanford, President of the Adams Express Company, Appellant, V.
Ebenezer W Poe, Auditor of the State of Ohio, et al., No. 339, James C.
Fargo, President of the American Express Company, Appellant, v. Ebenezer
W Poe, Auditor, etc., et al., No. 340, Thomas C. Platt, President of the
United States Express Company Appellant, v. Ebenezer W, Poe, Auditor,

