OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. GORHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1ST.

Argued January 28. 189T.-Decided February 15, 189T.

-Under the Indian depredation act of March 3, 1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851, judgment may be rendered against the United States alone, when the tribe
of Indians to which the depredators belong cannot be identified, and such
inability is stated.

THE appellee herein filed his petition against the United
States and the Comanche and Kiowa Indians in the Court of
Claims on the 4th day of September, 1891, in which he claimed
to recover damages for the destruction of his property on the
20th day of January, 1868, by the Comanche and Kiowa
Indians, in amity with the United States, at Indian Creek, in
Cooke County, Texas. The property destroyed consisted of
'horses, mares and colts, of the alleged value of $1390.
The government filed an answer to such petition, in which
-it denied each and every allegation therein contained. The
case was duly tried before the court, which found as facts
that the claimant was at the time of the loss of his property,
and ever since has been, a citizen of the United States, and
that in the year 1868 he was the owner of property described
in his petition, and that it was of the total value of $1390,
that it was destroyed or taken from him by Indians belonging to the Indian tribes, at- the time in amity with the
United States, and the depredatign was without just cause or
provocation on the part of claimant, and that it did not appear
at the time of the depredation that any Indian troubles existed,
that no part of the property included in the computation had
been returned or paid for. Upon these findings the court decided as conclusions of law that the plaintiff was entitled to
recover from the United States the value of the property,
$1390, and that his petition as against the Comanche and
Kiowas should be dismissed. Judgment was accordingly
entered against the United States for the sum named and for

UNITED STATES v. GORHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

a dismissal against the Indians. A motion by the United,
States for a new trial was overruled, and thereafter an appeal'
was allowed to this court. 29 C. C1. 97.
The appellant assigns for errors of fact
(1.) That the court erred in finding that claimant's property
was taken or destroyed by Indians belonging to Indian tribes.
at the time in amity with the United States.
(2.) In finding that the depredation was -committed without
just cause or provocation on the part of the claimant or his
agent.
(3.) In finding that it does not appear that any Indian
troubles existed at the time of the depredation.
Errors of law are assigned
(1.) That the court erred in its conclusion of law that the.
claimant should recover from the United States the sum of
$1390, and(2.) It erred in entering judgment against the United States.
Mr -AlexanderPorterMorse for appellants. Mr Asar.stant
Attorney General Ilowry filed a brief for the same.
Hr John Wharton Clarke for appellee.

MR.JUsTicE PCKHAA delivered the opinion of the court.
There is here bat a single question for this court to review,
and that relates to the right of the Court of Claims to render
judgment against the United States alone under the Indian
depredation act where the tribe of Indians to which the
depredators belong cannot be identified, and such inability is
stated and judgment rendered against the United States only
The act in question is entitled, "An act to provide for the
adjudication and payment of claims-arising from Indian depredations," approved March 3, 1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851.
Under that act jurisdiction is conferred upon the Court (if
Claims to inquire into and finally adjudicate, i the, manner
provided in the act, first All claims for the property of citizens of the United States taken or destroyed by Indians

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

belonging to any band or tribe or nation in amity with the
United States, without just cause or provocation on the part
of the owner or agent in charge, and not returned or paid for.
The second section of the act waives all questions of limitation as to the time and manner of presenting such claims, provided that no claim accruing prior to July 1, 1865, is to be
considered by the court unless the claim shall be allowed or
has been or is pending, prior to the passage of the act, before
Congress or before the other officers named therein.
The third section provides that all claims shall be presented
to the court by petition, setting forth the facts upon which
such claims are based, "the persons, classes of persons, tribe
or tribes, or band of Indians by whom the alleged illegal
acts were committed, as near as may be, the property lost or
destroyed, and the value thereof, and any other facts connected with the transactions and material to the proper
adjudication of the case involved."
The fourth section provides for servIce of the petition upon
the Attorney General of the-United States, and makes it his
duty to .appear and defend "the interests of the Government
and of the Indians in the suit." It provides for the filing of a
proper plea by the Attorney General, and that in case of his
neglect to do so the claimant may proceed with the case,
but he "shall not have judgment for his claim or for any
part thereof unless he shall establish the same by proof satisfactory to the court."
The fifth section provides, among other things, "That the
court shall determine in each case the value of the property
taken or destroyed at the time and place of the loss or
destruction, and, if possible, the tribe of Indians or other
persons by whom the wrong was committed, and shall render judgment in favor of the claimant or claimants against
the United States, and aganst Me tribes of Indians committing the wrong when such can be 2dentsJfled2-Y
The sixth section provides that the amount of the judgment
rendered against any tribe of Indians shall be charged against
the tribe by which or by the members of which the court shall
fiid that the depredation was committed, and shall be deducted

UNITED STATES v. GORHAM.
Ounion of the Court.

and paid in the toliowing manner "First, from annuities due
said tribe from the United States, second, if no annuities are
dae or available, then from any other funds due said tribe
from the United States, arising from the sale of their lands
or otherwise, thira, if no such funds are due or available,
then from aay appropriation for the benefit of said tribe
other than appropriations for their current and necessary
support, subsistence and education, and fourth, if no such
annuity, fund or appropriation is. due or available, then the
amount of the judgment shall be paid from the Treasury
of the United States Provmded, That any amount so paid
from the Treasury of the United States shall remain a
charge against such tribe, and shall be deducted from any
annuity, fund or appropriation herembefore designated which
may hereafter become due from the United States to such
tribe."
The eighth section provides "that immediately after the
beginning of each session of Congress the Attorney General
of the United States shall transmit to the Congress of the
United States a list of all final judgments rendered in pursuance of this act in favor of claimants and against the United
States, and not paid as hereinbefore provided, which shall thereupon be appropriated for in the proper appropriation bills."
The tenth section provides for an appeal by the claimant
or the United States or the tribe of Indians, or other party
thereto interested in any proceeding brought under the provisions of the apt.
The scheme of the act is to provide payment to the citizen
for property destroyed under the circumstances stated in the
first section, and where the Indians can be identified to make
them, through the funds coming to them from the government, pay back to it the amount it pays by reason of the
property so destroyed. We think the liability of the government to pay, upon proof of the facts set forth in the first
section, was not intended to be dependent upon the ability
of the claimant to identify the particular tribe of or the
individual Indians who committed the depredations. If
the identification could be made they were to repay the

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

government, but the indemnification of the citizen was not
to be dependent upon that fact.
When this case was before the Court of Claims it received
the very, careful attention of that court, and scarcely anything can be added to its well-considered opinion delivered
by Judge Nott in directing judgment against the United
States and dismissing the petition against the Comanche and
Kiowa Indians.
In conferring jurisdiction in this class of cases upon the
*Court of Claims, it will be seen that Congress conferred it in
regard to all claims for property of citizens of the United
States taken or destroyed by Indians belonging to any band,
tribe or nation in amity with the United States, without just
cause or provocation on the part of the owner or agent in
charge. So long as the depredations were committed upon
the property of citizens of the United States, and by Indians
in amity with the government, without just cause, etc., jurisdiction and authority to inquire into and finally adjudicate
upon such claims was granted to the court. This broad
ground of jurisdiction would, unless circumscribed by the
subsequent provision of the act, permit an adjudication against
the United States alone. There is nothing in any other portion of the act which provides in terms for joining as codefendants with the United States the tribes or bands of
Indians by whom the alleged illegal acts were committed.
The third section of the act merely provides for the contents
of the petition, and by such section it is made the daty of the
petitioner to state in his petition "the persons, classes of
persons, tribe or tribes, or band of Indians by whom the
alleged illegal acts were committed, as near as may be," etc.
This is for the obvious purpose of giving some notice to the
government of the alleged facts upon which the claim is
based so that the proper defence, if any exist, may be made
to the claim.
Section four, among other things, grants the right to any
Indian or Indians interested in the proceedings to appear and
defend by an attorney employed by such Indian or Indians,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,

UNITED STATES v. GORHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

if he or they so choose to do, but if no such appearance is
made, it still remains the primary duty of the Attorney General, under the provisions of the same fourth section, to appear
and defend the interest of the government and of the Indians
in the suit, and no claimant can have judgment for his claim
or any part thereof unless he shall establish -the same by proof
satisfactory to the court.
Taking into consideration that, by the fifth section, it is
the duty of the court to determine in each case, "if possible,
the tribe of Indians or other persons by whom the wrong was
committed, and to render judgment in favor of the claimant
or claimants against the United States and against the tribe
of Indians committing the wrong, when such can be identified," it may be fairly claimed that, reading all the provisions
together, the act makes it necessary, when known, to join
with the United States the Indians or tribe of Indians by
whom the illegal acts are alleged or are supposed to have
been committed. Although the fourth section provides for
the defence of the claim by the law officer of the government under any circumstances, yet as the interest of the
Indians is embraced in the inquiry before the court because
of their liability to a judgment against.them if identified and
to a payment of that judgment out of the annuities or otherwise as provided for m the sixth section, it is proper to allow
them to appear and defend also by their own attorney But
the fifth section provides for judgment in favor of claimant and against the United States in any event, .where the
property of a citizen has been destroyed under the circumstances provided in the statute, but only against the tribe of
Indians committing the wrong" when.such can be identified,"
and of course it follows that if they cannot be identified no
judgment can go against them. The United States would
then be left as alone responsible for the property destroyed
provided the proofs were of the character mentioned in the
first section of the act, that is the claimant would be bound
to .prove that' he was a citizen of the United States at the
time of the takifig or destruction of his property, that it had
been taken by Indians belonging to some band or tribe or
VOL. CLXV-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opimon of the Court.

nation in amity with the United States, without just cause
or provocation on the part of the owner or agent in charge,
and that it had not been returned or paid for.
Unless it can be asserted that it is impossible to make out a
cause of action for such destruction of property by the class
of Indians mentioned in the first section, without identifying
such class as is mentioned in the fifth section, we can see no
objection to a recovery against the United States alone in this
case. We do not think that it is impossible to prove facts of
the nature set forth in the first section, although they may
have occurred under such circumstances as to prevent identification of the particular tribe or band of Indians committing the
illegal act. The circumstances of the case might show beyond
any reasonable doubt that the property had been destroyed
by Indians, that it was at the time so situated with regard to
various bands of Indians, all of whom were in amity with the
United States, as to make it impossible to identify the particular
band to which the Indians belonged who committed the depredation, but that from the facts it could not be successfully
questioned that the Indians of one or the other of these bands
had committed the depredation. Under such circumstances
we think the claimant would bring his cause within the provisions of the act in question. He would have proved that his
property had been destroyed by Indians belonging to a band
or tribe in amity with tTe United States, but which of several
bands of that description he would be unable to identify
CoQnsequently the judgment would go against the United
States, but not against any particular band because of the
failure of the proof.
We think after a careful examination of the whole act that
the Court of Claims was right in entering judgment against the
United States alone. The claimant having died pending the
suit, the question as to the appointment and appearance of an
administrator may be dealt with in the Court of Claims.
The judgment of that court is, therefore,
.4fflrMed.

