OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement *ofthe Case.

DEWEESE v. REINHARD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 151.

Argued January 13,14, 1897. - Decided February 15, 1897.

-The plaintiff's contention in this case was that, notwithstanding the action

of the Department of the Interior in certifying the land in controversy
to the State of Nebraska and the subsequent conveyances in the chain of
title from that State to the appellees, such apparent legal title was absohitely void, because, by the acts. of Congress the land was not subject to
-selection by the State, it being within the limits of the land grant to the
Burlington & Missouri River Railroad Company, and reserved for homestead and pregmption, but not for private entry. All the facts upon
which that contention rested were matters of statute and record, and
any defence to the apparent legal title created by them was available
in an action at law to recover possession. Held, that, without deciding
whether, the selection and certification of these lands were absolutely"
void or simply voidable at the election of the Government, or were valid
and beyond any right of challenge of the Government, or any one else,
a case was not presented f6r the interference of a court of equity.

THE controversy in tins case respects the northeast quarter
of section 14, township 5, range. 3, situate in Saline County,
iNebraska. The facts are these The State of Nebraska upon
its admission into the Union became entitled, by virtue of
section 8 of the act of Congress, September 4, 1841, c. 16,
5 Stat. 453, 455, to-500,000 acres of public land to aid in promoting its internal improvements. March 26, 1868 the State
selected 359,708 acres- of land, including the tract in controversy as part of this'grant. March 24; 1870, the selection.
was approved by the Commlssioner of the General Land
Office, who, in his- certificate of approval, certified that the
lists had been "carefully exatnmed and compared with the
township plats and tract books of this office and are found
to be free from conflict, and I respectfully recommend that the
same'be approved subject to any valid interfering rights which
may have existed at the date of selection." March 29, 1870,
this action was approved by the Secretary of the Interior in
these words "Approved subject to all the rights above

DEWEEISE v. REINHARD.
Statement of the Case.

mentioned."

The lists duly certified were transmitted to the

State and recorded in the proper office. April 20, 1871, the
State of Nebraska patented 100,000 acres of these lands,
including the tract in controversy, to the Midland Pacific
Railway Company in execution of a contract made by the
State, through an act of its legislature, February 15, 1869.
Laws Nebraska, 1869, p. 153. The appellees hold under a
chain of title from the Midland Pacific Railway Company,

the deed to Jacob Remhard, one of the appellees, and Frederick Fieser, being dated November 11, 1878, they at the
time paying for the land twelve dollars per acre. On May 12,
1892, Frederick Fieser died, and his heirs and devisees are,
in addition to Jacob Reinhard, the appellees in this case.
The appellees and their grantors have paid the taxes of every

kind levied upon the land since the patent from the State,
amounting at the time of the decree in the Circuit Court to
$1375.81.

The claim of appellant was initiated on'May 31, 1883; more
than fifteen years after the selection by the State, more than
thirteen years after the approval by the. Secretary of the
Interior of such selection and the certification to the State,
twelve years after the State had conveyed the land away to
its grantee, and nearly five years after the deed to appellees.
It was initiated by an occupation of the tract and an application to enter it as a homestead. This application was rejected
by the local land officers, and their action 'in this matter was
affirmed by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office and
the Secretary of the Interior. On July 6, 1888, the appellant,
who had been in continuous possession ever since his first
entry, tendered the local land office- proof that he -had comnlied' with the terms and conditions of the homestead laws
ifthe. United States, and demanded a patent for the land.
This was denied by the local land- officers, and from such
denial no appeal was taken. The theory upon which the
appellant proceeded was that the land was within the limits
of the grant made by !the United States to the -Burlington
& Missouri River Railroad Company by act of Congress
July 2,.1864, c. 216, 13 Stat. 356, 364, and that by the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of March .6, 1868, c. 20, 15 Stat. 39, the even-numbered sections -within such limits were raised to double minimum lands,
and, while subject to homestead- and preemption entry, were
not subject ,to private entry, that therefore the selection by
and certification tq the State were absolutely void and passed
no title, that the title remained in the United States until
he by full'compliance with the requirements of the homestead
laws acquired an equitable right to the land.
An action of ejectment having been commenced by Reinhard
and Fieser on November 16, 1885, in the United States Circuit Court for the District qf Nebraska, to recover possession,
a bill in equity was filed b the appellant in the same court
on October 8, 1888, to enjoin the further prosecution of that
action and to quiet ls title. Upon pleadings and proof the
Circuit Court ientered a decree dismissing the bill, which
decree was affirmed by the Circuit- Court of Appeals, 19
U. S. App. 698, from which decree an appeal was taken to
this Gourt.
.Mr G -M. Lazfnlertson for appellant.
was on his brief.
1r Charles

.f'

JJ.

f .Deweese

l2Jfagoonand M' Charles Ofutt for appellees.

JusTicE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
M
1R.

On the threshold of this case we are confronted with the
question whether, assubing that the appellant has any rights
in the land, a case is presented for the interference of a court of
equity His contention is that.notwithstanding the action of
the Interior Department in certify-ing the land to the State,
and the subsequent conveyances in the chain of title from the
State to the appellees, such apparent legal title was absolutely
void because by the acts of Congress the land was not subject
to seletion'bv the State, it being within the limits of the land
grant to the Burlington & MNissouri'River Railroad Companv,
and reserved for homestead and prebmption, but not for private entry All the facts upon which tns contention rests are

DEWEESE v. REINHARD.
Opinion of the Court.

matters of statute and record, and any defence to the apparent legal title created by them was available in the action to
recover possession. For if it be true as contended that this
land thus certified to the State was not under the acts of Congress land open to selection, the validity of such certification,
as of a patent, can be challenged in an action at law Burfennzng v C(hiago, St. Paul &o. Railway, 163 U. S. 321, and
cases cited in the opinion.
But the mandate of the statute, :Rev Stat. ยง 723, affirming
in this respect the general doctrine in respect to the j'urisdiction of courts of equity, is that "suits in equity shall not be
sustained -in either of the courts of the United States in any
case -where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be
had at law" This general proposition has been affirmed by
this court in a multitude of cases, among others the following,
in which the jurisdiction of courts of equity to restrain proceedings at law was denied on the ground that there existed
a full and adequat6 defence, available in the legal action.
lungerford v Siger8on, 20 Row 156, Insurance Company v
Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 623, in which it was said "Where a
party, if his theory of the controversy is correct, has a good
defence at lawv to Ia.purely legal demand,' he should be left
to that means of defence, as he has no occasion to resort to a
court of .equity for relief, unless he is prepared to allege and
prove some special circumstances to show that he may suffer irreparable injury if he is denied a preventive remedy"
Grand Chute v. Winegar, 15 Wall. 373. It follows from. these
considerations that if this suit in equity is to be regarded as
simply one to restrain the action at law, it cannot be sustained,
because upon the appellant's own theory he has a full, adequate and complete defence at law
But it is contended by appellant that his suit is something
more than one to restrain the action at law, that it is a suit
to quiet his title and to hold the appellees as trustees of the
legal title for his.benefit, that the restraint of the law a9tion
is simply incidental to nd in furtherance of the main relief,
which is the quieting of his title. Assuming for the purposes
of this case that his contention in this respect is correct, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

agree with the erourt of Appeals that the showing made in his
bill is not one that appeals in the slightest degree to the conscience.of a chancellor. The theory upon which the appellant
proceeds is substantially that, because he has not a legal title
a court of equity must enforce and establish his right, or, in
other words, that the lack of legal title creates an equitable
duty We are unable to assent to this contention. Something
more than the absence of legal title is necessary to call into
action the processes of a court of equity The right, whatever it may be and from what source derived, must be not
only one not protected by legal title, but in and of itself appealin~g to the conscience of a chancellor. A court of equity
acts only when and as conscienbe commands, and if the conduct of the plaintiff be offensive to the dictates of natural
justice, then, whatever may be the rights he possesses and
whatever use he may make of them in a court of law, he will
be held remediless in a court of equity
Upon his own showing the plaintiff's conduct demands condeinnation xathei; than commendation. The title to vacant
land Within the States that originally formed the United
States remained in those States severally, while the title to
land subsequently acquired by the United States, whether
through cession from the original States. by conquest or treaty,
has been retained by the General Government-lands within
the State of Texas furnishing the one notable exception.
Though Congress on the admission of the new States has not
transferred to them the vacant lands within their limits, it has
made to them large grants for school and other purposes. In
carrying out this policy, in 184-1 Congress passed an act granting to certain named States and to, each State subsequently
admitted into the Umon 500,000 acres of land to aid in.internal improvements, the selection of such lands to be made in
such manner as the legislatures-of the respective States should
provide. Such selections were subject to the approval of the
land department of the United States, but when so made and
approved the lands were to be-certified to the State, and such
certification was to h-ve all the effect of a patent. Now,
assuming that the contention of thp plaintiff is correct, that

DEWEESE v. REINHARD.
Opinion of the Court.

subsequent legislation of Congress had the effect of providing
that such selection should be made from certain classes of
lands, and that the tract in controversy did not belong to any
of those classes, the fact remains that the land was selected
by the State, and such selection al)proved by-the land department, and uhat the land so selected and thereafter certified
was land belonging to the United States: At the time of
such selection and certification the only parties in interest
were the United States and the State. Concede the fact that,
through inadvertence, mistake or (of which there is no evidence) wrong on the part of the officials, this land was miproperly selected and certified, yet the United States for
thirteen years never questioned in any way the rightfulness
of the selection and certification, or challenged the title which
was apparently confirmed thereby to the State. It may be
conceded that no error or wrong on the part of the officers
of the land department concludes the United States, and that
they might whenever they saw fit by proper proceedings set
aside the title thus apparently conveyed. But they took no
steps. They acquiesced in the transaction. The land was
land which the United States had power to convey Congress
could by special act or otherwise have transferred this specific
tract to the State. The records of the transaction were public
and open. It was no secret conveyance by which title was
wrongfully conveyed to the State, but a matter of record of
which everybody, both governments included, were chargeable
with notice. Not only was the title thus apparently transferred unchallenged, but also the State dealt with it as its own
property, and conveyed it in satisfaction of one of its contracts.
It passed from grantee to grantee, the last sale being at the
price of $12 an acre. And further, the State during the years
subsequent to its conveyance treated the land as subject to
taxation, and they who purchased from it paid taxes thereon
amounting to over one thousana dollars.
After all this, the plaintiff, assuming to do that which the
United States had not done - that is, treat the selection and
acting not for the United States
certification as void -and
but-for himself, attempted to build up a right in himself to

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the land. This was not done in ignorance of the claims of
others, for when he first applied to enter th land as a homestead he was notified by the officers of the land department
that it had already been selected and certifled to the State,
and his application to enter was on that account rejected.
The county records also notified him of the several conveyances and the amount of money paid by the appellee3. He
was; therefore, simply an intruder. It ,-.
earnestly insisted
by counsel that Congress by its legislation has set apart certain classes of land for the *benefit.of preemptors and those
desiring to enter homesteads, that the Government thereupon, became, as it were, a trustee, holding the title to those
lands in trust for all who should elect to make themselves
cestuts que trust, that the-plaintiff, availing himself of this
legislation, took-the steps prescribed by the statute and made
himself therefore a cestun que trust, with a beneficial right to
this land, and the right to challenge not only all subsequent
but also any prior action taken by his trustee in disregard
of such beneficial right. We cannot agree to this contention.
Whatever rights such so-called eesutz qu6 trust may have
against his trustee, the government, or all parties claiming
under the government subsequent to the tuhe of the initiation
of his proceedings, he is not in a position to challenge any
action of his so-called trustee anterior to that time. The Guv
eminent did not bind- itself by its statutes to keep any lands
for subsequent occupation and purchase, and if prior to such
occupation it has even though mistakenly conveyed away a
tract to a third party, such conveyance, although voidable at
its instance, cannot be challenged by a mere intruder. And
when such conveyance is of long standing, and the transaction has been acquiesced in for many years by the Government, and parties relying upon the title apparently conveyed
have invested large sums of meney, ther, an attempt by such
an intruder to set aside all these transactions and to appropriate the property to himself is offensive to every sense of
right and justice, and equity will lend no helping hand to
such.-effort. The authorities cited iv the opinion of the Court
of appeals sustain this conclusion Coper v Roberts, 18 How

DEWEESE

.

REINHARD.

Opinion of the Court.

17:;, ,'mr '. Lu,,sley, .0 How 264, Cr'ag n v .Powell, 128
V
.(;:.i.
his lt-.t case is juite pertinent. It appeared that
in l
th,- (Tunlted Itates hit issued to ond Bach patents to
certain iirve-td and described lands, the title to which by
subewjitent conveyances passed to Cragin. In 1877, Powell,
:tsurveyor, was emlloyed by Cragin to make a survey of his
pr,,irty, and discovering as ne supposed an error by which
land3 apparently included within the survey and patent were,
in fact, outside of its limits, persuaded one Samuel Wolf to
obtain a patent whicn would cover the lands thus erroneously,
as contended, included in the first survey, and afterwards purchased those lands from Wolf. Thereupon he commenced a
suit "to fix the boundaries," the effect of which if the boundarv was established according to his claim would be to set
over to hint lands winch, as he alleged, were erroneously ineluded in the first survey and patent, but which had been all
these years occupied and cultivated by Bach, the patentee,
and hligrantees. A decree in his favor in the Circuit Court
was reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill, Mr. Justice Lainar ,aving in the opinion (p. 700)
"The appellee, Powell, is a surveyor, who, in the year 1877,
while employed by appellant to ,,ake a survey of his -plantation, thought he discovered an error In the public lands,
whereby it would appear that his lands were not, in fact,
situated on Bayou Four Point-. From his own evidence it is
.lswn that lie induced Wolf to obtain the patent from the
State of Louisiana for the land which he, the said appellee,
purchasel t'oin him. When lie purchased this land from Wolf
Lc knew that the tracts to which lie was laying claim had been
possessed and cultivated by t tie appellant for a long period of
'i

Vears."

"Au advntage tihus obtanp, a court of equity will not
readily enforce. A. was said in Taylor v Brown, 5 Cranch,
2;,4, 256 'The tc'mins of the subsequent location prove that
the Incator conside-te, himself aN -omprehending Taylor's pre1,1ous enry with, h1bilocatxi.
He either did not
inean to acquire th- land within "-aylor's entry, or he is to be
Ofnsidered as a rnaa .vatchin- -tir the acciden-tal mistakes of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

others, and preparing to take advantage of them. What is
gained at law by a person of this description equity will not
take from him; but it does not follow that equity will aid his
views.'"

Without, therefore, determining whether the selection and
certification of these lands was absolutely void or simplv voidable at the election of the Government, or valid and beyond
any right of challenge on the part of the Governmenft or an"
one else, we are of the opinion that equity will not hell) the
plaintiff in his suit, and the decree of the Court of Appeals is
.Ajjirnied.

GLOVER v. PATTEN.
APPEAL FROM TIMi

COURT OF APPEALS O0 'lHE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 78.

Argued January 5, 6, 1,,9s. -

Decided February 15, 1897.

An infant may affirm a contract or settlement made for her benefit, like the

one here in controversy, and may sue upon it as if she were originally a
party to it.
In a suit by children to establish their rights as creditors of the estate of
their deceasedmother other creditors .are not necessary parties, as the
executors or administrators represent them and guard their interests.
The bill in this case, fled by direction of the orphans' court to obtain the
advice of a court of chancery upon the rights of the respective parties,
discloses on its face a good cause of action in equity.
That cause of action is not barred by the Maryland statute of limitations,
still in force in the District of Columbia.
Where a parent, being a debtor to his child, makes an advancement to the
child, it is presumed to be a satisfaction pro tanto of the debt.
In a suit between devisees under a will, statements made by the deceased
to counsel respecting theexecution of the will, or other similar document,
are not privileged.
The objection that the complainants were incompetent to testify as to thei r
mother's statements, and- as to transactions in which she took part is
entitled to.some weight and is not free-from doubt; but such testimony
is not indispensable'to the maintenance of the complainants' bill.
The general bequest to her daughters in the mother's will was not an extinguishment of her debt to them.
No interest should be allowed prior to the mother's death.

