624:

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

same interpretation a corporation was treated as a shareholder who held shaes of stock only as collateral security,
but who allowed its name'to appear and remain on the stock
registry of the insolvent national bank association a8 owner,
without anything indicating that it held such stock as collateral security
5fational Bank v. Case, above cited. So, in
another case., it was held that the transferrers "remained the
owners of the stock, though-registered in the name of others,
and pledged as collateral security for their debt." Anderson,
v PhiladelIhaWarehouse Co., above cited.
Our conclusion is that the defendant in error cannot be
regarded otherwise than as a pledgee of the stock in question,
is not a shareholder within the meaning of section 5151 of the
Revised Statutes, and is not, therefore, subject to the liability
imposed upon- the shareholders of national banking associations by that section.
This view of the case makes it unnecessary to consider
whither the State Loan and Trust Company, being a pledgee
of the stock, was a "trustee" within the meaning of section
5152, providing that "persons holding stock as executors,
administrators, guardians or trustees shall not be personally
subject to any liabilities as stookholders."
The judgment is
A,fflrmed.
WADE v. LAWDER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATB OF MISSOURI.
No: 172. Argued January 26, i01'.-Decided March 1, 189.

Where a suit is brought on a contract of which a patent is the subject-matter, either to enforce such Contract, or to annul it, the case arises on the
contract, or out of the contract, and not under the patent laws; and, if
brought in a state court, this court Is without appellate jurlsdiction to
review the judgment unless it appears that a right urider the laws of the
United States was properly set up and claimed which was denied by the
state court.

THIs was a bill in equity brought by Charles Wade against

WADE v. LAWDER.
Opinion of the Court.

Birt Ringo, in the Circuit Court of Audrain County, Missouri,,

for the rescission of a contract. After hearing had on pleadings and proofs that court dismissed the bill, whereupon the
cause was carried by appeal to the Supreme Court of Missouri.
Division No. 1, and the decree affirmed. 122 Missouri, 322.
Appellant then moved that the case be transferred to the
Supreme Court in bane, under the constitution of Missouri in
that behalf, Duncan v Hissouwr, 152 U. S. 377, on the ground
that the record involved the decision of a Federal question
arising under the laws of the United States, namely, "the construction of the patent and specifications of the patent, as they
appear in evidence in said cause." This motion was denied
and a writ of error from this court was afterwards allowed.
._r John . Barker for plaintiff in error.
.Bwklev was on his brief.

Xr&Samuel IF

.Mr Tr TV Fry for defendants in error. Mr George Bobertson filed a brief for same.
MR. CHIEF

JUsTicE FuLLm delivered the opinion of' the

court.
On the twenty-seventh of July, 1891, Wade and Ringo
entered into the following contract
"Whereas, B. Ringo, of Mexico, Mo., has invented a new
folding bed known as the Ringo folding bed for which he
has made application for a patent from the United States of
America in his name, and whereas B. Ringo owns an undivided one half interest of and in said patent with one -J C.
Buckner, of Mexico, Mo. Now be it known that the undersigned, B. Ringo, has this day sold and does hereby sell and
assign to C. Wade, of Mexico, Mo., all of his said undivided
one. half interest in said invention and the letters-patent applied for and to be issued to said B. Ringo for and to said
Ringo folding bed. And said B. Ringo obligates himself to
assign his undivided one half interest in said letters-patent to
said C. Wade as soon as the same are issued by and at the
VOL. CLXV-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Patent Office of the United States, in such manner as any
additional assignment of the same may be necessary other
than this writing to convey to said 0. Wade an undivided
one half interest in said invention and letters-patent. And
the said B. Ringo does hereby further sell and assign to C.
Wade my undivided one half interest in all patterns, and all
of said Ringo folding beds completed or being constructed at
J H. Heitland's in Quincy, Illinois. For and in consideration
of the sale and transfer of the above undivided one half interest in said invention and letters-patent, said 0. Wade does
hereby sell, transfer and deliver to said B. Ringo his entire
stock of furniture, coffins, fixtures, on. furniture wagon, two
hearses and three sets of harness with said wagon and hearses,
said stock of furniture being the same now in the building
occupied by said 0. Wade on Jefferson Street, in Mexico, Mo.,
which stock of furniture, fixtures, coffins, wagon and harness,
etc., is this day delivered by said 0. Wade to said B. Ringo.
"Said B. Ringo further obligates himself to assign, transfer,
for no other or further consideration than herein named, any
further patent or improvement on said Ringo folding bed or
other folding bed that he may obtain letters-patent for at any
time in the future.
"If said letters-patent on this application or other different
application should for any cause not be issued to said B. Ringo
for said folding bed, then said B. Ringo hereby obligates himself, when it is definitely known that said letters-patent will
not be issued, if at all, to return to said 0. Wade said stock of
furniture, fixtures, wagon, hearses and harness, with the stock of
furniture as full, as near as practicable, as it now is and less
the wear and tear of said fixtures, wagon, hearses and harness
from use.
"But it is understood if such transfer should for said cause
be. necessary, said B. Ringo is to retain all proceeds of sales
made by him in said furniture business, and said 0. Wade to
retain proceeds of sales made by him in said furniture business
and said 0. Wade to retain proceeds of sales of such folding
beds arhe may make during said time."
The application for letters-patent was then pending and

WADE v. LAWDER.
Opinion of the Court.

under an assignment of his interest in the invention by Ringo
to Wade, a patent issued September 22, 1891, to Wade, and
Buckner, Tingo's cobwner.
The gravamen of the bill was that plaintiff was induced to
enter into the contract by certain false and fraudulent representations by defendant as to the utility and value of the invention in question, and also that various matters and things
were fraudulently omitted from the contract by the defendant.
Any other grounds of complaint indicated are unimportant.
It was averred that the bed was worthless, and in a replication
plaintiff alleged "that the patent, as set out in defendant's
answer as having been issued to 0. Wade and J. C. Buckner,
at the instance of said Ringo, is void for the reason that 'the
said patent so issued has neither novelty of invention nor utility of purpose." But the utility of the invention was only
involved on the question of the falsity of the alleged representations.
The Circuit Court of Audram County held upon the evidence
that the contract was exactly as both parties desired and intended it to be, that the charges of fraud were not substantiated, that it did not appear that the folding bed was wholly
worthless, and that, as plaintiff was experienced in the sale
of the article, had every opportunity to test it, and the opinion of friends and of an expert to aid him, had advised alid
suggested changes and supposed improvements to defendant
during the working out-of the idea, inspected the models at
various times, proposed the trade first himself and again a
second time and at the time of the trade knew or ought to
have known far more about folding beds than defendant, who
was wholly ignorant of them prior to the time he began work
on the invention, representations as to the utility of the improvement even if in fact untrue, would not constitute sufficient ground for rescission. In these conclusions the Supreme
Court of the State concurred. 122 Missouri, 322.
The general rule is that "where a suit is brought on a contract of which a patent is the subject-matter, either to enforce
such contract, or to annul it, the case arises on the contract,
or out of the contract, and not under the patent laws." Dale

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

Tile JHaniVaoturzng Co. v. Hlyatt, 125 U. S. 46, and cases cited,
Wlood Mowng Machine Co. v Skinner, 139 U. S.'293, In rve
-Ingalls,Petitzoner, Id. 548, Marsh v. irohols, Shepard & Co.,
140 U. S. 344.
We are unable to discover in this case that plaintiff specially set up and claimed, at the proper time and in the proper
way, anyright under the laws of the United States, or that
any subh right was denied him by the decision of the state
courts. The controversy was in respect to the rescission of a
contract for the exchange of an invention for a stock of merchandise. The decree rested on grounds broad enough to sustain it without reference to any Federal question. Application
for letters-patent was pending when the contract was entered
into, and letters-patent were issued so that Wade obtained a
half interest therein as provided. The state courts held, for
the reasons given, that Wade got what he had bargained for,
and was not deceived or misled in the premises. Under these
circumstances the writ of error cannot be maintained. Rev.
Stat. ยง 709.
]Vit dismnissed.

NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN AND HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY -v. NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 12.

Argued January 4, 169T. -Decided

March 1, 169T.

The statutes of New York regulating the heating of steam passenger car.4,
and directing guards and guard-posts to be placed on railroad bridges
and trestles and the approaches thereto (Laws of 1887, c. 616, Laws of
1888, c. 189), were passed in the exercise of powers resting in the State
in the absence of action by Congress. and, when applied to interstate
commerce, do not violate the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.A.

John X. Bowers for plaintiff in error.

