OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of the cheque or draft being unessential, it is clearly sufficient
when the grand jury say that the instrument having been destroyed they are unable to give any further description than
such as is found in' this inditAment, for that, as vill be
seen, contains some matters of description and identification.
There being no other questions presented in the record, and in
these appearing no error, the judgment of the Circuit Coart is

Affirmd.
MB.

JUSTICE

GiuY and MR. JUSTICE

WHITE

dissented.

THE VALENCIA.J
GERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Submitted May T, 1896. - Decided February 1, iT.

Dne furnishing supplies or making repairs on the order simply of a person
acquiring the control and possession of a vessel under a charter party
requiring him to provide and pay for all the coals, etc., cannot acquire a
maritime lien if the circumstances attending the transaction puL him on
inqairy as to the existence and terms of such charter party, anu he fails
to make the iquiry, and chooses to act on a mere belief that the vessel
will be liable for his claim.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr Ffrederto 1. Coudert and Mr ooseph iling for appellants.

;.Mr Wgiam W Goodrwzk and .Mr ohn A. Deady for
appellees.
i.

JUSTIE HARLM

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is before us upon a question certified by the
I The docket title of this case ?ni"The Steamship Valencia, her tackle,
etc. William G. Boulton et aL, Claimants, v. William H. Ziegler et al."

THE VALENCIA.
Opinion af tho Court.

Uniteca States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Cirnuit under the act of-March 3, 1,91, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
Th6, facts out of which the question arises are as follows.
Upon ,orders given by the New York Steamship Company, a
New jersey corporation enga!-ed in business at the city of
New Yor!, the libellants at different times, at- that port, furnished and delivered coal on board of the steamship Valencia
for its specific use. The vessel was registered at Wilmington,
North Carolina, but was owned by citizens of New York.
The coal was necessary to enable it to make a series of regular trips from New York to and from the ports of Maine. In
some ,nstances the orders for the coal were sent direct by
mail, in others, through a broker, either 'by the general manager of the company or by the superintendent of the dock.
The libellants began to supply the coal on the 30th day of
April, 1890, and furnished, from time to time down to -and
including July 5th, six cargoes, biljs for which were sent to
the office of the steamship company in the city of New York,
and were paid by it.
None of the coal was delivered by the order of the master
or by his procurement or with his expressed consent.
The corporation operated the steamship under a charter
requiring it "to provide and pay for all the coals," etc. The
libellants were not aware of the existence of- the charter at
the time they furnished the coal, nor did they know where
the ship hailed from, whether she was foreign or domestic,
nor what wab her credit. They were at the time without
knowledge of the ownership of the vessel or of the relations
betwepn it and the New York Steamship Company, except
that that company "appeared to be directing its operation."
They made no inquiry as to the solvency of the steamship
compi4,xy, or as to the ownership or nationality of the vessel,
but, in the belief that the ship was responsible for supplies
furnished, deliverd the coal as above stated, charging the
same on its bno:L, to "S. S. Valencia and owners, New
York," in somtie cases "city," in others "Pier 49, E. R., New
York."
No fact proved lu the case warranted the inference that

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Cour.

either the master or the charterer agreed to pledge the credit
of the vessel for the coal.
By the -laws of New York (c. 482 of 1862) it is provided.
"ยง 1. Whenever a debt amounting to fifty dollars or upwards
shall be conas to a-seagoing or ocean-bound vessel
tracted by the master, owner, charterer, builder or consignee
of any ship or vessel, or the agent of either of them, within
this State for either of the following purposes 1st. On
account of work done or materials or other articles furnished
in this State for or towards the building, repairing, fitting,
furnishing or equipping such ship or vessel, 2d., For such
provisions and stores furnished within this State as may be.
fit and proper for the use of such vessel at the time the same
such debt shall be a lien upon such
were furnished,
vessel, her tackle, apparel and furniture," etc. No lien was
filed under the statute of the State.
Libellants insisted that for other supplies of coal of the
aggregate value of $1608.75, furnis1ied. in the months of
June, July and August, they were entitled to a maritime
lien on the ship. The District Court having sustained their
claim, an appeal was prosecuted -to the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
The question certified to this court is Whether, upon the
above facts, the libellants obtained a maritime lien on the
steamship for the supplies thus furnished and not paid for.
In The Eate5 decided at the present term -in which case
the libellant claimed a maritime lien on a vessel for coal furnished upon the order of a charterer who was bound ly the
charter party to-provide and pay for all coal required by the
vessel.- this court said "The principle would seem to be
firmly-established that.when it is sought to create a lien upon
a vessel for supplies furnished upon the order of the master,
the libel will be dismissed if it satisfactorily appears that the
libellant knew, or ought reasonably to be charged with knowledge, that there was no necessity for obtaining the supplies,
or, if they were ordered on the credit of the vess6l, that the
master had at the time in his hands funds which his duty
required that he should apply in the purchase of needed sup-

THE VALENCIA.

126

Opinion of the CourtL

plies. Courts of admiralty will not recognize and enforce a
lien upon a vessel when the transaction upon which the claim
rests originated in the fraud of the master upon the owner,.
or in some breach of the master's duty to the owner, of which
the libellant had knowledge, or in respect of which he closed
his eyes, without inquiry as to the facts." Again "If no
lien exists under the maritime law, when supplies are furnished to a vessel upon the order of the master, under circumstances charging the party furnishing them with knowledge
that the master cannot rightfully, as. against the owner,
pledge the credit of the vessel for such supplies, much less
is one recognized under that law where the supplies are furnished, not upon the order of the master, but upon that of the
charterer who did not represent the owner in the business of
the vessel, but who, as the claimant knew, or by reasonable
diligence could have ascertained, had agreed himself to provide and pay for such supplies, and could not, therefore, rightfully pledge the credit of the vessel for them." 164 U. S.
458, 469, 470.
The libellants contend that although the coal was furnished
on the order of the charterer, and not on that of the master,
they have a maritime lien on the vessel to secure their claim,
and cite in support of that view, The Grapeshot, 9 Wall. 129,
The Lulu, 10 Wall. 192, 196, The Ealorama, 10 Wall. 204,
210, 213, 214, and The .PataMpsco, 13 Wall. 329.
In Tie Grapeshtot, it was said, among other..things, that
"where proof is made of necessity for the repairs or supplies, or for i. ds raised to pay for them by the master, and
of credit given to the ship, a presumption will arise, conclusive, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, of necessity
for credit", in The Lulu, that "experience shows that ships
and vessels employed in commerce and navigation often need
repairs and supplies in course of a voyage, when the owners
of the same are absent, and at times and places when and
where the master may be without funds, and may find it
impracticable to communicate seasonably with the owners of
the vessel upon the subject," and that "contracts for repairs
and supplies, under such circumstances, may be made by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

master to enable the vessel to proceed on her voyage, and if
the repairs and supplies were necessary for that purpose, and
were made and furnished to a foreign vessel or to a vessel of
the United States in a port other than the port of the State
where the vessel belongs, the prmafacie presumption is that
the repairs and supplies were made and furnished on the
credit of the vessel, unless the contrary appears from the
evidence in the case" ,. and in The Ealorama-in which
case all the advances were made at the request of the master, in the absence of the owner, or by the owner in person
when he was present, and with the understanding that they
were made on the- credit of the vessel -that "the necessity
for credit must be presumed where it appears that the repairs
and supplies were ordered by the master, and that they were
necessary for the ship, unless it is shown that 'the master had
funds or that the owner had sufficient credit, and that the
repairers, furnishers and lenders of the money knew those
facts or one of them, or that such facts and circumstances
were known to them as were sufficient to put them upon
inquiry, and to show that if they had used due diligence
they would have ascertained that the master was not authorized to obtain -any such relief on the credit of the
vessel."
These were cases of supplies.furnished on the. order of the
master, and what was said by this court must, -therefore, be
taken in the light of the principle, that as the master of the
ship stands in the position of agent or representative of the
owners, the latter "are bound to the performance of all lawful
contracts made by him, relative to the usual employment of
the ship, and the repairs and. other necessaries furnished for
her use," The Aurora' 1 Wheat. 96, 101 ;.or, as expressed in
The t. Jqgo de- Cuba, 9 Wheat. 409, 416; the law maritime,
in order that the ship may get on, "attaches the power of
pledging or subjecting the vessel to material men, to the office
of shipmaster; and considers the owner as vesting him with
those powers by the mdre.act of constituting him shipmaster."
Upon this ground, as was said in The J E. Rumbell, 148
U. S. 1, 9, maritime liens or privileges for necessary advances

THE VALENCIA.
Opinion of the Court.

made or supplies furnished in good faith to the master in a
foreign port, to keep a vessel fit for sea, "are preferred to a
prior mortgage, or to a forfeiture to the United States for
a precedent violation of the navigation laws." The relations
of the master to the vessel and its owners, as well as to shippers of cargo, are such that his power and duty of determining what part of the common adventure shall be sacrificed for
the safety of the rest, and when and how the sacrifice shall
be made, were held in .alli v.. Troop, 157 U S.386, 400-1.
to appertain to him "magms ter naws,as the person intrusted
with the command and safety of the common adventure, and
of all the interests comprised therein, for the benefit of all
concerned, or to some one who, by the maritime law, acts
under him or succeeds to his authority"
In the case of The Patapsco it appeared. that the supplies
were furnished to the vessel in a foreign port. This court,
recognizing the case to be an embarrassing one and not free
from difficulty, proceeded on the .ground that, as according to
the weight of the evidence the supplies were furnished on the
credit of the ship, and not on that of the company which used
it, and which was notoriously insolvent, there was a lien on the
vessel that should not be displaced except upon -affirmative
proof that the credit was given to the company to the exclusion of the vessel. Nothing, however, was said in that case
to justify the contention that a lien will arise for necessary
supplies furnished a vessel, in a foreign port, on the order of a
charterer, if the libellant at the time knew, or by reasonable
diligence could have ascertained, that it was being run under
-a charter that obliged the charterer to provide and pay for all
needed supplies. That case turned largely upon its special
facts, and was so presented to this court as to restrict its inquiry to the single point whether the coal was furnished to
the Patapsco on the credit of the vessel or of the owners. In
point of fact, the Patapsco was run under a charter party by
the Commercial Steamboat Company, a corporation of Rhode
Island. But that corporation owned and operated steamers
of its own on the same line in which the Patapsco was employed, and the court in examining the case seemed to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

treated that company as the owner of all the vessels used on
its line. This is apparent from the opinion, which states that
"whether the coal was furnished on the credit of the vessel
or of the owners is the only point of inquiry in this case."
Nor is there anything in The Guy, 9 Wall. 758, which bears
directly on the question, now presented. The opinion was
very brief and stated nothing more than that upon the facts
established that case was governed by the principles announced
in The Grayeshot, decided at the same term. According to
the reporter's statement of the facts it was a case of repairs
ordered by one claiming to be the proprietor and agent of the
company operating the vessel, and who "seemed to have been
the owner." It was substantially the case of necessary repairs made pursuant to an agreement or understanding with
the owner that they were made on the credit of the vessel,
the owner himself being known to be insolvent and unworthy
of credit.
In the present case, the question of lien or no lien on the
vesse{ arises under circumstances not disclosed or discussed in
any of the cases upon which libellants rely Although the
fibellants were not aware of the existence of the charter party
under which the Valencia was employed, it must be assumed
upon the facts certified that by reasonable diligence they
could have ascertained that the New York Steamship Company did not own the vessel, but used it under a charter party
providing that the charterer should pay for all needed coal.
The lilellants knew that the steamship company had an office
in the city of New York. They did business with them at
that office, and could easily have ascertained the ownership
of the vessel and the relation of the steamship company to
the owners. They were put upon inquiry, but they chose to
shut their eyes and make no inquiry touching these matters
or in reference to the solvency or credit of that company It
is true that libellants delivered the coal in the belief that the
vessel, whether a foreign or a domestic one, or by whomsoever owned, would be responsible for the value of such coal.
But such a belief is not sufficient in itself to give a maritime
lien. If that belief was founded upon the supposition that

THE VALENCIA.
Opinion of the Court.

the steamship company owned the vessel, no lien would exist,
because in the absence of an agreement, express or implied,for a lien, a contract for supplies made directly with the
owner in person is to be taken as made "Con his ordinary
responsibility, without a view to the vessel as the fund from
which compensation is to be derived." Tle St. Jago de Cuba,
9 Wheat. 409, 416, 417. And if the belief that the vessel
would be responsible for the supplies was founded on the supposition that it was run under a charter party, then the libellants are to be taken as having furnished the coal at the
request of the owner yro lac vwe, Stephen.on v The -Frances,
21 Fed. Rep. 715, 717, The Samuel Marshall, 51- Fed. Rep.
397, 399, without any express agreement for a lien, and in the
absence of any circumstances justifying the inference that the
supplies were furnished with an understanding that the vessel
itself would be responsible for the debt incurred. In the
present case, we are informed by the record that there was
no express agreement for a lien, and that nothing occurred to
warrant the inference that either the master or the charterer
agreed to pledge the credit of the vessel for the coal.
In Beineelee v Steamasl p Secret, 3 Fed. Rep. 665, 667,
United States District Court for the Southern District ofNew York, which was a suit against a vessel owned by a foreign corporation having an office and transacting business in
New York, and with good credit there, but operated by
Murray, Ferris & Co., a New York firm, under a charter party
requiring the charterers to furnish all supplies, Judge, Choate
said "They [the libellants] knew they were dealing with
New York parties, and not with the foreign owner or the
master, who presumably represents the owner, and they were
put upon inquiry as to the interest and relation of 'Murray,
Ferris & Co. to the vessel, and are chargeable with the facts
they might have ascertained on such inquiry They could
easily have learned that Murray, Ferris & Co. had no right or
power to bind the owners or the vessel for the supplies, and
that they were, in fact, the owners, so far as concerned parties
supplying the ship." So, in The Norman, 28 Fed. Rep. 383,
384, Judge McKennan said "But Murray, Ferris &.Co. [the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

charterers] were residents of New York, at which port the
vessel was lying when the coal was furnished, and they furnished it directly, without the intervention of the ofcial representative of the vessel. They were owners pro hac mce,
because they had possession of the vessel, and she was at their
"sole disposal" until the end of the charter. These facts
repel the implication that the coal was furnished upon the
credit of the vessel, but warrant the inference that it was
furnished upon the personal credit of the charterers and ostensible owners. At least they were sufficient to put the
libellant upon inquiry as to the actual relations of Murray,
Ferris & Co. to the vessel, and their obligations under the
charter party, and this must have resulted in the knowledge
that the act of the charterers could not, under the circumstances, impose a lien upon the vessel." In The Samuel Marshall, 49 Fed. Rep. 751, 757, affirmed in 6 U. S. App. 389,
Judge Severens said "If the vessel is then in the use, possession and control of others than the owner, a presumption
arises that such others are liable to pay the charges incident
to the employment, and if the party furnishing the supplies
knew, or should have known, the facts in regard to the use
and control of the vessel, there is the same reason for the presumption against the credit being given to the vessel, when
-the charterer or other person standing in a similar relation to
the vessel residds at the port of supply, as in cases where the
owner operating the vessel on his own account resides at such
port, and ' where there is the sarpe reason there should be the
same law"' See also The Suliote, 23 Fed. Rep. 919, Thz
Pirate,32 Fed. Rep. 486, The Glenmont, 34 Fed. Rep. 402,
The Golden Gate, 1 Newberry, 308.
Under what circumstances, if under any, a charterer who
has control and possession of a vessel under a charter party
requiring him, at his own cost, to provide for necessary supplies and repairs, may pledge the credit of the vessel, it is not
necessary now to determine. We mean only to decide, at
this time, that one furnishing supplies or making repairs on
the order simply of a person or corporation acquiring the con_trol and possession of a vessel under such a charter party can-

PIM

. ST. LOUIS.

273

Opihion of the Court.

not acquire a maritime lieu if the circumstances attending the
transaction put him on inquiry as to.the existence and terms
of such charter party, but 'he failed to make inquiry, and
chose to act on a mere belief that the vessel would be liable
for his claim.
For the reasons stated 'the question certtfled to this court is
aftswered zn the negative.

PIM v. ST. LOUIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF mISSOURI.
No. 180. Argued January 27, 1897. -Decided

February 1, 1897.

No Federal right was set up in this case until after the final decision of
the case by the Supreme Court of Missouri- and then by a petition for
rehearing. Bitd, that the claim of a Federal right came too late, so far
as the revisory power of this court is concerned.

THE case is stated

in the opinion.

Mr Leverett Bell (with whom was Mr -enry
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

.. Davis

.Mr IV C. NJ[arslall appeared for defendant in error, but
the court declined to hear further argument.
MR. JUSTICE IIMRLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action for the recovery of certain real estate in
the city of St. Louis of the possession of which the plaintiff
in error, who was the plaintiff below, alleged that she was
illegally and wrongfully deprived by the defendants. The
city denied the plaintiff's claim, and relied upon continuous
ad.erse possession for ten years prior to the accruing of the
plaintiff's cause of action.
We held at the present term in Chieago & NVortl western
VOL. CLXV-18

