OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

short, local lines.

But as suggested in argument, a road only

fifty miles in length would seldom have a sleeping car attached
to its trains, and passengers travelling on roads of that kind
do not have the apprehension ordinarily felt by passengers on
trains regularly carrying sleeping cars or having many passenger coaches, on account of the burning of cars in case
of their derailment or in case of collision. In any event,
there is no such discrimination against companies having
more than fifty miles of road as to justify the contention
that there has been a denial to the companies named in
the act of the equal protection of the laws. The statute is
uniform in its operation upon all railroad companies doing
business in the State of the class to which it is made applicable.
One of the assignments of error questions the validity of
the statute upon the ground that it deprives the plaintiff in
error of its property without due process of law As the
action against the company was instituted and conducted to
a conclusion under a valid statute, the defendant being before
the court, there is no reason to hold that there was any want
of the due process of law required by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
M . JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case or take any part
in its decision.

FOURTH STREET BANK (ofP/iladelphsa)v. YARDLEY
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 14.

Argued January 12,1, i89a. -Decided

March 1, 1S9T.

As between a check holder and the bank upon which such check is drawn,
it is settled that, unless the check be accepted by the bank, ad action
cannot be maintained by the holder against the bank.

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Statement of the Case.
It is also settled that a check, drawn in the ordinary form, does not, as between the maker and payee, constitute an equitable assignment pro tanto
of an indebtedness owing by the bank upon which the check has been
drawn, and that the mere giving and receipt of the check does not entitle the holder to priority over general creditors in a fund received from
such bank by an assignee under a general assignment made by the debtor
for the benefit of his creditors.
That the owner of a chose in action or of property in the custody of another may assign a part of such rights, and that an assignment of this
nature, if made, will be enforced in equity, is also spttled doctrine of
this court.
The Keystone Bank, through its president, solicited the Fourth Street Bank
to give to the former $25,000 of gold certificates, for which the Keystone
Bank was to give its check against its reserve account in the Tradesmen's
National Bank of New York City. At the same time that this request was
made the president of the Keystone Bank made the further statement that
his bank owed a balance at the clearing-house which it could not meet
"because its funds were in the city of New York," and exhibited a
memorandum showing the amount to its credit with the Tradesmen's
Bank to be in the neighborhood of $27,000. In reliance upon such
representations and the statements made supported by the memorandum
exhibited, the Fourth Street Bank delivered to the Keystone Bank the
certificates requested, and there was delivered a check for $25,000 upon
the Tradesmen's National Bank of New York. The draft in question
was at once forwarded to the city of New York, and was presented for
payment at the Tradesmen's Bank on the following morning, when payment was, refused. At the time of presentment the Tradesmen's Bank
had to the credit of the Keystone Bank $19,725.62 in cash and collection
items amounting to $7181.70, in all $26,907.32. Of this amount $18,056.21
had been remitted by the Keystone Bank on the day previous. Held,
.(1) That, it being established that it was the intention and agreement
of the parties to the transaction that the check drawn generally
should be paid out of a particular fund, such check, as between
the parties, is to be treated as though an order for payment out of
the specific, designated fund;
(2) That as the Fourth Street Bank contracted and parted with its
money on the faith of the representations of the Keystone Bank
that there was to its credit, in the Tradesmen's Bank, a specific
sum, and the fund which came into the hands of its voluntary
assignee was the fund as to which the representations were made,
the Keystone Bank and its assignee were in equity estopped from
asserting, 'to the prejudice of the Fourth Street Bank, that the
character and condition of the fund was otherwise than it was
represented to be.

By a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the Uhiited States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, appellant sought to sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

ject moneys in the hands of the receiver of the Keystone
National Bank to the satisfaction of an alleged equitable
charge or lien thereon. From a decree dismissing the bill
an appeal was .taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit. The latter court. thereafter certified to this
court two questions of law arising upon the facts stated,
which facts are set out in the margin hereof.1
1 On the 19th day of March, 1891, the said Fourth Street National Bank
advanced twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in clearing-house gold certificates to the said KeystoneNational Bank to enable it to meet its debtor
balance in the Philadelphia clearing-house under these circumstances. On
said date Gideon W Marsh, the president of the Keystone National Bank,
acting on its behalf and by its authority came to the banking room-of the
said Fourth Street National Bank, in the city of Philadelphia, and there
represented to the officials of that bank that the Keystone National Bank
owed a balance at the clearing-house winch it could not meet, because its
funds were in the city of New York, and exhibited to them a memorandum
showing a balance to the credit of the Keystone National Bank in the Tradesmen's National Bank of the city of New York of about twenty-seven thousand dollars ($27,000), stating that his bank wished to draw against it and
get clearing-house certificates; and he asked the Fourth Street National
Bank to accept the draft of the Keystone National Bank for twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) against this "1reserve account in the New York
is to say against the said fund in the Tradesmen's National
bank "-that
Bank-and give his bank clearing-house gold certificates therefor. Relying upon these representations of Marsh, and on the faith of his statement,
supported by the said memorandum, that the Keystone National Bank had
in the Tradesmen's National Bank the specified fund against which it proposed to draw, the Fourth Street National Bank gave Marsh, for the use of
the Keystone National Bank, clearing-house gold certificates to the amount
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) and took its draft, of which the
following is a copy
"Keystone National Bank.
No. 5086.
" PIIMLADELPnIIA, 1farch 19, 1891.
"Pay to the order of R. 1. Rushton, cashier, ($25,000) twenty-five thousand dollars.

"Jonx

AYE~s,

Cashier.

"To the Tradesmen's National Bank, New York."
R. H. Rushton was the cashier of the Fourth Street National Bank.
The books of the Keystone National Bank show that on the 19th day of
March, 1891, it had to its credit in the Tradesmen's National Bank of the
city of New York the sum of twenty-six thousand nine hundred and seven
and N- dollars ($26,907.32), and on the same day an entry was made therein

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Counsel for Appellant.

The following are the questions propounded
"First. Do the above stated facts show an equitable assignment by the Keystone National Bank to the Fourth Street
National Bank of twenty-five thousand dollars of the fund,
consisting of cash-and collection items or drafts as aforesaid,
belonging to the Keystone National Bank in the hands of the
Tradesmen's National Bank 2
"Second. If the stated facts do not show such equitable
assignment of the whole twenty-five thousand dollars, do
they show such equitable assignment of the cash so in the
hands of the Tradesmen's National Bank, namely, the sum of
nineteen thousand seven hundred and twenty-five and j
dollars? 1
X2' SamueZ Dw7on and .Mr
lant.

i"c
ard C. Dale for appel-

charging against that credit the said draft for twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000) it had given to the Fourth Street National Bank.
The draft for twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) was duly forwarded
to New York for collection and was presented for payment, to the Tradesmen's National Bank on the morning of March 20, 1891. Payment thereof
was refused upon the ground that the drawee had not in hand funds of the
drawer sufficient to pay the same. In fact, the Tradesmen's National Bank
had in cash and in collection items (drafts) for the Keystone National Bank
the sum of twenty-six thousand nine hundred and seven and -s dollars
dollars
($26,907.32), of which eighteen thousand and fifty-six and 9
($18,056.21) were remitted by the latter-named bank to the former on
March 19, 1891, and the rest previously. The Tradesmen's National Bank
then had in hand in cash to the credit of the Keystone National Bank the,
sum of nineteen thousand seven hundred and twenty-five and -pl dollars
($19,725.62), and had in addition the said collection items to make up the
full sum of twenty-six thousand nine hundred and seven and dollars
($26,907.32). Afterwards this money was paid and the said collection
items or drafts were turned over to Robert M. Yardley, the receiver of the
Keystone National Bank, and out of the collection items he realized sixtyone hundred dollars (86100), anA he thus had in his hands from this source
when the bill in this case was filed the sum of twenty-five thousand eight
hundred and twenty-five and -& dollars (825,825.62) in cash.
On the 20th day of March, 1891 (some time during the morning), by the
order of the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States, the Keystone National Bank was closed, and thereafter Robert M. Yardley was
appointed receiver thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellee.

.Mr Silas 7 Pet it for appellee.
I. The paper given by the Keystone to the .Fourth Street
Bank was a check in ordinary form on the Tradesmen's Bank
for $25,000, and was represented by Marsh to be drawn
against the balances which he alleged the Keystone had with
the Tradesmen's Bank upon a deposit account such as banks
usually keep between themselves. Under the Banking Act
Philadelphia national banks can count as part of their reserve
against the amount of their notes in circulation and deposits
the amounts they have to their credit with New York national
banks. Rev Stat. §§ 5191, 5195.
So far, therefore, the check in question is the same as any
check drawn by any depositor upon a bank in which he has a
deposit account.
Although many respectable a,thorities, such as Chancellor
Kent, Mr. Byles and Mr. Morse, have held that the holder of
a check drawn against sufficient funds has a right of action
against the drawee, the weight of authority is the other way
Saylor v Bushong, 100 Penn. St. 23, 27, Bank (!f Republic
v l illard,10 Wall. 1f2, 157, Florence _linng Co. v Br'own,
124 U S. 385. Mr.-Morse himself, although strongly arguing -the other way, concedes that "the most numerous body
of decisions sustains the view that a check isneither a legal
or an equitable assignment as between, drawer and payee, nor a,
sufficient foundation for any actzon by a holder against the
bank." 'Morse on Banks, § 493.
A check is clearly not an assignment of money in the hands
of a banker;- it is a bill of exchange payable at a banker's.
The -banker is bound by his contract with his customer to
honor the check when he has sufficient assets in ls hands,
if he does not fulfil his contract he is liable to an action' by
the drawer, in which heavy damages may be recovered if the
drawer's credit has been injured. I do not understand the expressions attributed to Mr. Justice Byles in the case of K-eene
v Beard,but I am quite sure that learned judge never meant
to lay down that a banker who dishonors a check is liable to a
suit in equity by the holder. Ropkznson v Forster,L. R. 19

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Argument for Appellee.

Eq. 74. See also First National Bank v Thztman, 94 U. S.
343, Laclede Bank v Schuler, 120 U S. 511, St. Louis &
San Franczsco Railroad v. Johnston, 133 U. S. 566, 574.
Bills of exchange and checks do not stand on the footing
of orders drawn upon a particular fund with a manifested
intention to create a lien thereupon, and the tendency and
preponderancy of authorities seem in favor of the rule that
neither a bill of exchange nor a.check on a bank can operate
as an assignment or appointment of the fund in the drawee's
hands, or create any manner of lien upon it. .Dana v Third
.3ational Bank, 13 Allen, 445-448. As this case arises between a Pennsylvania and a New York bank, it may not be
out of place to note that the rule of this court has been fully
adopted by the courts of both those States. Saylor v. Bushong,
100 Penn. St. 23, First National Bank v
cllichael, 106
Penn. St. 460, .Etna Bank. v Fourt Vational Bank, 46
N. Y 82, People v Aferchants' Bank, 78 N. Y 269, Risley
v .Pheentz Bank, 83 N. Y 318.
It is to be remembered, however, that in many'of the States
the rule is that the giving of a check does in law operate as an
equitable assignment pro tanto of the fund against which it
is drawn. This is (or formerly was) the law in Missouri (see
First NationalBank v Coates, 3 -McCrary, 9), and hence it is
contended that the cases of checks on banks cited by appellant
are not in point here because governed by the law then prevailing in that forum.
No doubt no writing, and no particular form of words
written or verbal, is needed to constitute a valid assignment
in equity of a debt .or other chose in action, any expression,
written or verbal, is sufficient .which shows the intention to
transfer or appropriate a particular debt or fund to the assignee for.a valuable consideration, aiid this is true likewise
of most forms of personal property
That ordinarily a check drawn in the usual course of business upon a deposit in a bank would operate as such an assignment is quite clear from the reasoning of the cases in those
States which hold it to be such, but for reasons of commercial convenience too well established to need to be stated or

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellee.

defended it has been thoroughly established by this court and
in the courts of many of the United States, that where the
depositor is a bank or banker a check or bill of exchange
drawn on it or him is not an equitable assignment in favor of
the payee of the check.
A check drawn generally is not considered to be drawn on
a particular fund, and, except in those States in which it is
considered to be an equitable assignment of the amount mentioned therein, the legal right of the drawee of the check to
countermand it and forbid its payment, or to forestall it by
drawing other checks and having them presented, is well established, and however dishonorable and fraudulent the drawer's
conduct may be, it is confidently believed that in no case has
a holder of the check been permitted to recover, either at law
or in equity, against the drawee, except in those States in
which he has a right of action against the drawee upon the
check itself, irrespective of any 6ther circumstance. On the
contrary, the general practice has been, as shown by the reports, for the payee of the check to attach the funds in the
hands of the drawee as the property of the drawer of the
check, a method of procedure clearly inapplicable if thegiving
of the check operated as an assignment.
On the other hand, if the check does operate as an assignment as between the drawee and the payee, even if it did not
do so as against the bank or banker on whom it isdrawn, it is
clear that upon presentation and notice to the drawee, the
right of action by the payee against-the drawee would accrue,
and that such action does not accrue is the exact point decided by numerous cases in the Supreme Court of the United
States, which have been followed by the courts of many other
States, including those of Pennsylvania and New York, where
the transaction now in controversy took place.
On the one hand, it is held that where the check is drawn
against funds in a bank, of course that particular fund is
the fund designated in the check, and that the holder of the
fund is under an implied promise, arising from the well-known
usage of the business, to pay the check upon demand -that
the banker when he receives the deposit agrees with the deposi-

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Argument for Appellee.

tor to pay it out on the presentation of his checks in such
sums as those checks may call for, and to the person presenting them, and agrees with the whole world that the owner of
such check shall, upon presentation, thereby become the owner
and entitled to receive the amount called for by the check,
provided the drawer shall have funds on deposit to meet it,
and that there thus arises a privity of contract upon which
the holder of the check may at once sue the banker in case
it is dishonored. On the 6ther hand, however, it is held that
there is no privity of contract between the banker and holder
of the check when it is given, that, obviously, the check is
given and accepted on the credit of the drawer alone, and
not on that of the drawee, and that the payee, or owner of
the check, has no rights against the bank holding the deposit
until presentment and acceptance, and that otherwise great
inconvenience would arise in the conduct of the business of
banking:
Except for the inconveniences, the first rule would seem to
be the logical one, and has in fact been frequently applied by
all the courts where a check, or an order equivalent thereto,
is given upon an agent or consignee or other depositary of
money or property belonging to him who gives the check or
other order to pay, transfer or deliver the money or property designated therein, as the cases cited by the appellant
abundantly establish. The difficulty of the appellants, is
not from the want of analogy between the cases they cite
and the appeal they prosecute here, but arises because of
the rule already referred to, now thoroughly established as
law by the decisions of this court and adopted by most of
the States in accordance with those decisions, whatever may
be the rule governing equitable assignments of money or
property in general, it is now held that a check on a banker
is not an assignment of the fund on which it is drawn.
II. Nor was there in this case any special circumstance
which would take it out of the general rule.
The representation by Marsh that the check was drawn
against funds was only the verbal expression of that which
is necessarily implied by the giving of the check itself, an mVOL. CLXV-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Appellee.

plioation so strong that it has been held that the drawer of
a check drawn on a bank where he has no funds is liable,
criminally, for a false pretence, and the cases are numerous
where the vendor of merchandise has been permitted to rescind- the sale on the ground of fraud when he has made
delivery upon the faith of a check drawn against a bank in
which the drawer had not sufficient funds to meet it.
Nor does it seem that the fact that the check was entered
by the Keystone Bank in its account against the Tradesmen's
Bank should affect the question. Such entry would almost
certainly be found in every case where a check is drawn, and
in no case could it have less weight than .n the one under
consideration, because in this case the bank did not, as matter
of fact, have the balance in the Tradesmen's Bank which its
books pretended it had, and such check was in fact an overdraft when made.
III. The point that the receiver has no rights other than
those of the.Keystone Bank does not seem to affpct the question here.
By Rev. Stat. section 52-2, all transfers by national banks
of deposits to its credit, for its use "or for the use of any of
its shareholders or creditors, and all payments of money to
either made after the commission of an act of insolvency, or
in contemplation thereof," are declared to be utterly null and
void. The Keystone Bank was closed on March 20, 1891, and
thereafter any payment on a check theretofore drawn by it
was prohibited by law, and the receiver, representing all its
creditors, was entitled to all sums on deposit to its credit at the
tine the bank was closed, for equal distribution among them.
The same rule is of f'amiliar application in practice in other
cases of insolvencv, and it is believed that no case can be
found, except, perhaps, some where the circumstances were
extraordinary, in which the holders of any unpresented check
have been held to be entitled to the bank balances standing to
the credit of the insolvent at the time of the insolvency as
against the assignee, certainly the every-day practice is for
the assignee to take over all the bank balances of the assignor
in preference to the holders of unpresented checks, who come

FOURTH STREET BASNK v. YAIRDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

in only for their dividend thereon out of the general fund. And
that this is the usual practice is again shown by the numerous
cases in which the right of stoppage intransetu has been exercised by the holders of such checks upon the ground of the
failure of the consideration for which they had sold their
merchandise.
IV The appellant's contention is that the check given
was an equitable assignment, but an equitable assignment
of what 2
It is submitted that it is impossible to designate exactly of
what the check can be considered to have been an assigninent, equitable or legal, and that the case presented shows
no "particular fund" to have existed at all, but that it presents the ordinary case of a check drawn on a bank partly on
funds on deposit and partly on funds to be deposited in the
ordinary course of business, presented for paymerit, and dishonored because the funds to be sent had not in fact been
received, or accepted as cash, by the drawee, and in respect
to such a case it cannot be said that the check is an assignment of anything, or is other than a mere order to pay, subject to countermand by the assignment or insolvency of the
drawer, without overruling a long line of decisions of this
court which have now become the rule of decision in most
of the States of the Union. It seems to be peculiarly a case
in which the maxim of stare de-cszs should be applied.
.MR.

JUSTICE 'WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As between a check holder and the bank upon which such
check is drawn, it is settled that, unless the check be accepted
by the bank, an action canno be maintained by the holder
against the bank. Bank of Red)ublic v .Millard,.10 Wall.
152, First National Bank v WInkdman, 94 U S. 343.
It is also settled that a check, drawn in the ordinary form,
does not, as between the maker and payee, constitute an
equitable assignment pro tanto of an indebtedness owing by
the bank upon which the check has been drawn, and that the

OCTOBER TERMTf, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

mere giving and receipt of the check does not entitle the
holder to priority over general creditors in a fund received
from such bank by an assignee ifnder a general assignment
made by the debtor for the benefit of his creditors. .Florence
.Minng Company v Brown, 124 U S. 385, Laclede Bank v.
Schuler, 120 U S. 511.
That the owner of a chose m ac.tion, or of property in the
custody of another may assign a part of such rights, and that
an assignment of this nature, if made, will be enforced in
equity, is also settled doctrine of this 6ourt. "Trstv. Child,
21 Wall. 441, 447, Peugh v Porter,112 U. S. 737, 742. For
recent cases maintaining this principle and referring to the
present state of the law on the subject in the vprious States,
see James v Newton, 142 Mass. 366, lNatswnal ExchangeBank
v McLoon, 73 Maine, 498, and Lan'igan v. Bradley and CurPser Co., 50 N. J. Eq. 201.
Whilst an equitable assignment or lien will not arise against
a deposit account solely by reason of a check drawn against
the same, yet the authorities establish that if in the transaction connected with the delivery of the check it was the
understanding and agreement of the parties that an advance
about to be made should be a charge on and be satisfied out
of a spedified fund, a court of equity will lend its aid to carry
.such agreement into effect as against the drawer of the check,
mere volunteers, and parties charged with notice.
'This is but an application of the general doctrine of equitable assignments or liens announced by this court in Ketchum
v. St. Louis, 101 U. S. 306, where it was held, citing various
authorities and text writers, that "A party may, by agreement; create a charge or claim in the nature of a lien on real
as well as on personal property whereof he is the owner or in
possession, which a court of equity will enforce against him,
and volunteers or claimants under him with notice of the
agreement." It is immaterial, for the purposes of this case,
to draw a. line of distinction between equitable assignments
and equitable liens or charges.
In Risley v Phcensx Bank, 83 N. Y 318, two counts of a
complaint were based upon a check drawn upon the defendant

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

bank by a depositor, in favor of plaintiff, while the third count
based the right to recover upon an alleged oral assignment of
a part of an indebtedness owing by the bank to -such depositor, to the amount of the check. The check in question was
drawn May 20, 1861, by a bank in South Carolina upon a bank
in New York. The trial court ruled that the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover upon the causes of action founded upon the
check and the verbal promise of payment, but that plaintiff
was entitled to recover upon the third cause of action if the
jury should find the facts to be as therein averred. A audgment upon a verdict in favor of plaintiff was affirmed, it being
held (p. 327), to quote the language of the Court of Appeals
in the subsequent case of Coates v First National Bank of
.Ernporza,91 N. Y 26, "in substance that when in addition to
the check there was an oral agreement between the drawer
and payee, by which the former for a valuable consideration,
agreed to assign so much of the indebtedness of the bank to
him as was represented by the check, and the check was given
to enable the payee to collect and recover the portion of the
debt assigned, the agreement operated as an assignment, and
was sufficient to vestin the payee a title to that portion of the
debt."
In the Coates case, the Emporia Bank interpleaded in an
action brought by the assignee in insolvency of the Mastin
Bank against Donnell, Lawson & Co., -bankers in New York
City, to recover a balance of a deposit account kept by the
Mastin Bank with Donnell, Lawson & Co. The intervenor,
the Emporia Bank. claimed to be entitled to a part of such
balance on the ground of an assignment thereof made to it
by the Mastin Bank, under the following circumstances The
Mastin Bank owed the Emporia Bank, and was requested by
the latter to transfer on account thereof funds to the credit of
the Mastin Bank with Donnell, Lawson & Co. The Mastin
Bank replied it would do so, and at once charged the Emporia
Bank, and credited themselves with $5000, and on the same
day, by letter, informed the Emporia Bank that this had been
done, and by letter also notified Donnell, Lawson & Co. to
credit the account of the Emporia Bank with the sum named.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The Emporia Bank also gave the Mastin Bank credit for the
amount. The Court of Appeals said (pp. 27-28)
"These circumstances in the conduct of both parties establish an agreement, the effect of which, as between the Mastin
Bank and the Emporia Bank, was to estop the former from
setting up that s.o much of the credit to which they were before
entitled from Donnell, Lawson & Co. did not belong to the
Emporia Bank, and the Emporia Bank from saying that so
much of the debt before due from the Mfastin Bank to it had
not been extinguished. Allen. v Culver, 3 Den. 284-292.
Written out, the contract indicated by the bank entries and the
correspondence is one of assignment of so much of the credit,
or funds then to its credit with Donnell, Lawson & Co. to the
Emporia Bank, and a"discharge of a debt due by it to that
bank. The whole- was completed the moment the letter of
the IMfastin Bank to.the Emporia Bank was placed in the post
office. Graves v American Ex. Bk., 17 N. Y. 205, Brogden.
v. Meropolitan By. Co., L. R. 2 App. Cas. 666, 692, Exoparte
.Harrm,L. R. 7 Oh. App. 596, Barry v. Euitable Life A88urance Society, 59 N. Y 587, 594, ]gayne Co. Sawing8 Bk. v.
As between
Low, 81 N. Y 566, 37 Am. Rep. 533.
these parties; the credit or fundshad ceased to be the -property of the Mastin Bank. The Emporia Bank was no longer
creditor, because it was paid. The credit, or right to call upon
Donnell, Lawson & Co. for the same amount, was the means of
_payment."
It was also held (p. 29), upon the authority of fleqth v Htall,
2 Rose, 271, and Burn v Carvalho, 4 M. & C. 690, that, as
rights of third parties were not involved, it was immaterial
to plaintiff's right to recover that the Mastin Bank Became
insolvent and made a general assignment for the benefit of
its creditors, of which Donnell, Lawson & Co. were notified
before receipt by them of the notice from the MIastin Bank
to credit the Emporia Bank. The court found (p. 30) that
the entries made by. the Mastin Bank oi its books showed an
intention on the part of the Mastin Bank to transfer to the
Emporia Bank a specific amount of the deposit with Donnell,
Lawson & Co., and, "taken in connection with the letters

FOURTH STREET BAXK v. YARDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

between the parties, and the order and letter of advice sent
to Donnell, Lawson & Co., they are equivalent to an actual
transfer of credit, or account, to an assignment, therefore,
at least in equity, of the fund in the hands of Donnell, Lawson
& Co."
In Tliroop Gra. CleanerCo.v Smizth, 110 N. Y 83, 88, it
was again held, to quote from the syllabus in the case, that
(p. 83) "While the mere delivery to a third person of a
check or. draft drawn by a creditor upon his debtor does
not affect a legal transfer of the debt, where it appears that
the intent was to make such a transfer, it is.
the duty of the
court to carry out the intent." The court, in that case, from
a review of the evidence deduced therefrom, as matter of law,
an actual transfer of the debt owing by the parties upon which
a check or draft had been drawn.
In the still more recent case of First YatonaZ Bank v.
Clark, 134:N. Y 368, the doctrine of Risley v. ,Phcentx Bank,
and Throop Gram Cleaner Co. v. Smith, was expressly approved. (p. 373.) The controversy was between the payee
of a check and a private banker upon whom it had been
drawn, the defendant denying having been at any time indebted to the maker of the check. In affirming a judgment
entered upon a verdict m favor of defendant, the Court of
Appeals held, despite the fact that a check had been given,
that the trial judge properly left it to the jury to determine
under the particular circumstances whether the alleged debt
had been assigned to the plaintiff.
In .FirstlVational Bank v. Dubuque, Southwestern &c. z'ai-lway, 52 Iowa, 387, the Supreme Court of Iowa held that a
bill of exchange drawn upon a general fund, and not accepted
by the drawee, does not operate as an assignment of the fund,
but is evidence to be considered with other circumstances in
determining the intention of the-parties.
In Hlarrqson v W'ight, 100 Indiana, 515, a similar ruling
was made. The Supreme Court of Indiana there reached the
conclusion (p. 538) "that a chel in the ordinary form upon
the drawer's- banker, without words of transfer,. and drawn
upon no particular designated fund, does not, of itself, operate

OCTOBER TERM, 1896
Opinion of the Court.

as an appropriation or equitable assignment of a fund in the
hands of the drawee, nor does it operate as an assignment of
a part of the drawer's chose in action against the drawee."
Among the considerations upon which this holding was
based was the following .(p. 539)
"Second. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, or a
showing of an intention to assign a part of a fund in the
hands of the drawee, or a part of the drawer's chose ineaction
against the drawee,it should be presumed that the payee or
holder of a check takes it upon the credit of the drawer, of
whom he may collect, if payment be refused by the drawee."
:- Ii Gardner v. Natsonal City Bank, 39 Ohio St. 600, the
controversy was between assignees in insolvency and the
owlers and payees of a check or draft made by the insolvents.
The assignees in insolvency were held to stand in the shoes of
the insolbqnt debtors and to have only their rights in the
premises, and it was- adjudged that parol evidence, that the
draft was for -the exact amount owing by the drawers, in
connection with other facts appearing from the evidence,
sufficiently established the intention to transfer the property
in the fund and constituted an equitable assignment thereof,
good as against the general creditors of the insolvent.
In the subsequent case of Covert v Rhodes, 48 Ohio.-St. 66;
it was held that where a check had been given for a part of
a sum on deposit, which was not presented for payment utitil
after the maker had made a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, the holder acquired no priority over general
creditors in the. amount to the depositor's credit which had
been surrendered to theL -ssignee in insolvency There were,
however, no special circumstances existing in the case to take
it out. of the operation of the general rule applicable to a
check or draft given in the ordinary course of business.
In Hopkznson v. Forster,L. R. 19 Eq. '74, it was held that
a check is not an equitable assignment of the drawer's balance
at his bankers, but that circumstances might coexist to create
a charge upon the amount owing. Thus, in answering the
contention that a letter forwarded *by. the maker of a check to
the payee created a charge on the debt owing, the Master of

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the Rolls observed (p. 75) "You can have no charge in equity
without an intent to charge. The letter on which you rely
was not written with any intent to charge the fund, it was a
mere letter of instructions to the bankers." So, also, in ShancZ
v Du Bu2sson, L. R. 18 Eq. 283, it was held that a bill of
exchange drawn for the exact amount of a fund was not an
equitable assignment of the fund. It was urged, however,
(pp. 288 and 289) that the defendait was entitled to the fund,
because he "advanced money of his own for the payment of
the debt of the debtor, and that upon a contract then entered
into, he was entitled to the money, and that the bill of exchange is only evidence of that contract." The Vice Chancellor, after observing that the claim thus urged "must rest
upon evidence," proceeded to consider the evidence adducel,
and held it to be insufficient.
In Thomposon v Simpson, L. R. 5 Oh. 659, it was sought to
establish a lien on funds by reason of the purchase of a bill of
exchange drawn upon the holder of the fund. Lord Hatherley
sud (p. 660) "It is extravagant to say that a man %vhohas an
agent employed to pay bills creates a charge on the funds in
the agent's hands by the mere drawing of a bill. It is necessary
to make out a contract to charge specific funds which were
with the Liverpool Bank, or which were on their road thither,
for if there was only a persnnal contract, that would give
nothing but a right of action." In the same -ase, Lord Justice
James observed (p.-662) that "when it is attempted to make
out, in addition to the written contract contained in a bill of
exchange, a collateral parol agreement, it is most important
to have clear and satisfactory evidence as to the exact words
used."
In the case of Citizens' Bank of Loutstana v The First
National Bank of _Yew Orleans, L. R. 6 H. L. 352, it -was
attempted to establish a parol contract that certain bills of
exchange payable sixty days after sight should be paid out
of a specific fund. The House of Lords, however, held that
-the evidence exhibited merely an ordinary mercantile transaction for the purchase of a bill of exchange, and did not establish that it was intended to specifically appropriate a portion

OCTOBER TERAT, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

of a particular fund to the payment of the bills in question.
It was, however, clearly recognized that an oral understanding, entered into in a transaction where a bill of exchange was
delivered, might constitute an equitable assignment of a fund,
for, in commenting upon the averments of certain facts on
the subject of an assignment, Lord Chancellor Selborne said
(p. 359) "That is the first part of the case, and of course, if
proved, it would have been a very clear case of a contract for
an equitable assignment."
In the light of these principles, we proceed to consider the
facts certified, in order to ascertain whether in the transaction
connected with the giving of the check in question there was
either an express agreement to assign the fund, or to give a
lien or charge thereon, or whether, if not express, such agreement is necessarily to be implied from the conduct of the
parties, the nature of their dealings an 4 the attendant circumstances. The facts, succinctly stated, are that the Keystone
Bank, through its president, solicited the Fourth Street Bank
to give to the former $25,000 of gold certificates, for which
the Keystone Bank was to gwe its check against its reserve
account in the Tradesmen's National Bank of New York
City At the same time that this request was made the president of the Keystone Bank made the further statement that
hi§ bank owed a balance at the clearing-house which it could
not meet "because its funds were in the city of New York,"
and exhibited a memorandum showing the amount to its
credit with the Tradesmen's Bank to be in the neighborhood
of $27,000.- In reliance upon such representations and the
statements made supported by the memorandum exhibited,
tte Fourth Street Bank. delivered to the Keystone Bank the
certificates requested, and there was delivered a check for
$25,000 upon the Tradesmen's National Bank of.New York.
The draft in question was at once forwarded to the city of
New York, and was presented- for payment at the Tradesmen's Bank on the following mornng, when payment was
refused. At the time of presentment the Tradesmen's Bank
.had to the credit of Keystone- Bank $19,725.62 in cash and
collection items amounting to $7181.70, in all $2.6,907.32.

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Of this amount $18,056.21 had been remitted by the Keystone
Bank on the day previous.
When we look at the situation of the parties and the character of the transaction disclosed by the facts. just referred to,
no difficulty is experienced in ascertaining the intent of the
parties. Both were banking institutions -banks of deposit.
They were located in the same. city They were not correspondents the one with the other, and there was no deposit
account kept by the one with the other, indeed, so far as the
usual course of commercial transactions was concerned, thebanks were strangers. The application therefore by the Keystone Bank to the Fourth Street Bank for accommodation
under these circumstances precludes the conception that the
relation between the parties was purely one of a usual and
customary nature.
It cannot be doubted that a mere request for the loan by
the Keystone Bank from the Fourth Street Bank would have
been so surprising that the contract would not possibly have
been made without a statement of the reason which rendered
the request necessary It is equally clear that the mere statement of the situation which caused the request to be made
would, in itself, from any standpoint of business prudence,
have made it the duty of the Fourth Street Bank to refuse
without full security It follows that the same reason which
imperatively required the Keystone Bank to disclose the cause
for its request, also rendered it absolutely essential, in order
to obtain the loan, that it indicate a specific source or means
of payment outside of and beyond its mere general credit.
In other words, that it should tender ample security for the
loan which it requested. The deduction arises that, as it cannot be reasonably conceived that the loan would have been
made without the reference to and assignment of the particular fund from which alone the hope of immediate payment
was to be reasonably expected, the parties must have and did
intend to create a particular appropriation, charge or lien on
the property upon the faith of which they both dealt. The
transaction, therefore, was a proposition to borrow on the one
hand, accompanied with the disclosure that security was neces-

OCTOBER TERIT,

1896.

Opinion of the Court.

sary and tendering the security, and on the other hand an
acceptance of such proposal and an advance made on the faith
-of it. Not to conclude that such was the agreement and contract contemplated and actually entered into by the parties,
would lead to the impossible and contradictory theory that
the minds of the parties could not and would not have met
on the subject of the loan unless a prerequisite link to that
meeting of minds existed, and yet at the same time to hold
that. the minds had met without the existence of that prerequisite which was the very essence and necessary foundation
of the agreement.
Considered in other respects, a like conclusion follows. The
Fourth Street Bank, as stated, was under no obligation to grant
the request of the Keystone Bank, it was to derive no pecuniary advantage whatever from the proposed transaction, it was
not in any sense for the convenience of the Fourth Street Bank
that the contract was made, and the bank clearly contemplated
an immediate reimbursement, if it delivered the certificates
asked for. Had the transaction been an ordinary one, that of
a time or even demand loan made with a person in good credit
in the line of -his business, and not, as it was, an extraordinary
transaction, we might well presuppose that it was the expectation of the- Fourth Street Bank that the borrower should
,merely have on hand with the Tradesmen's Bank when the
check was presented a sufficient amount to pay it.
But the Keystone Bank, m disclosing its hazardous situation
and indicating, the specific fund dedicated to the payment of
.the solicited accommodation, did not represent that it expected
to further check against the Tradesmen's Baik before the
check which it proposed to give might be presented. The
statements made clearly implied to the contrary, exhibiting as
.they did the embarrassment of the borrowing bank, arising
from the need of available cash to meet its clearings, and proposig a transaction by which-the Fourth Street Bank would
obtain from a bank, but a few hours distant, the prompt and
certain paymentof its advance.
As stated, this was manifestly not an ordinary mercantile
,transaction, but .one of an extraordinary character, and when

FOURTH STREET BANK v. YARDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

we consider the situation and conduct of the parties, the disclosures made at the time of the contract, and weigh the
probabilities of the case, it is impossible to infer otherwise
than that it was intended that the particular fund in the
Tradesmen's Bank should be not only the source from which
payment of the check to be given should be made, but that
the fund should be transferred and apprQpriated pro tanto for
that purpose. It is of course true that the method adopted to
evidence the appropriation was a check drawn generally upon
the Tradesmen's Bank, but, as already stated, the authorities
are clear that when it is established that it was the intention
and agreement of the parties to a transaction that a check
drawn generally should be paid out of a particular fund, such
check, as between the parties, will be treated as though an
order for payment out of a specific, designated fund.
It is not material, as affecting the rights of the Fourth
Street Bank in the fund, that the sum with the Tradesmen's
Bank was not exclusively a cash indebtedness, but in fact consisted partly of cash then owing and of money or drafts in thg
course of transmission to or collection by the New York bank.
The receiver took no greater rights in the -property of the
insolvent bank, which came .into his possession than that
which thD insolvent bank possessed. Scott v Armstrong,
146 U S. 499, 507.
As the Fourth Street Bank contracted and parted with its
money on the faith of the -representations of. the Keystone
Bank that there was to its credit, in the Tradesmen's Bank,
a specific sum, and the fund which came into the bands of its
voluntary assignee is the fund as to which the representations
were made, the Keystone Bank and its assignee are in equity
estopped from asserting, to the prejudice of the Fourth Street
Bank, that the character and condition of the fund was otherwise than it was represented to be.
In answer to the suggestion, made in the argument at bar,
that possibly the collection items may not have belonged to
the Keystone Bank, but may have been the property of others
for whom the bank merely held them for collection account,
it suffices to say there is no intimation to this, enid in the facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

stated. It is, consequently, unnecessary to determine any
question as to priority of payment out of the fund, except
that presented by the conflict between the Fourth Street
Bank and the assignee in insolvency representing the general
creditors of the Keystone Bank.
The first question propounded will therefore be answered in
the affirmative, thus rendering it unnecessary to pass upon the
second question certified, and

It

Mi. JUSTICE; GiY, MR. JUSTICE BREWER and

'Z8 80

ordered.

MR.

JUSTiCE

PECOHAM dissented.

WALKER v. BROWN.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 198. Submitted January 18, 1696.-Decided ,March1,189T.
Every express executory agreement in writing, whereby the contracting
party sufficiently indicates an intention to make some particular property,
real or personal, or fund, therein described'or identified, a security for a
debt or other obligation, or whereby the party promises to convey or
assign or transfer the property as security, creates an equitable lien
upon the property so indicated, which is enforceable against the property In-the hands not only of the original contractor, but of his heirs,
administrators, executors, voluntary assignees and purchasers, or encumbraucers with notice.
On the facts stated in the opinion of the court, which can with difficulty be
condensed without omitting something which might be .deemed essential,
and applying to those facts the principle of law stated in the preceding
patagraph,. Held, that Walker. & Co. had an equitable lien upon the bonds
of Brown pledged to the Union National Bank, and that those bonds
had been returned to Brown under such circumstances as to continue Ehe
lien against them in the hands of Mrs. Brown, to whom they had been
given by him.
To dedicate property to. a particular purpose, toprovide that a specified
dreditor, and that creditor alone, shall be authorized to seek payment
from It or its val.e, is to create 'anequitable lien.upon it.
or reasons stated in the opinion interest is to be computed at the rate of
six per cent, not at the rate of ten per cent.

