ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

413

Syllabus.

little practical difference whether the agreement of September,
1885, were treated as an operative instrument, or merely one

for the purpose of satisfying the sureties on the admimstratrix's
bond. As the effect of the latter construction would be to prefer Mrs. Glover to this amount over her sisters, the court will
construe it as the parties themselves have construed it. It is
apparent from what has been said that -no interest should be
allowed prior to the death of Mrs. Patten.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
.Affirmed.

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY
v. MINGUS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 100. Argued December 15, 16, 19.- Decided February 15,189T.
Congress did not intend by the statutes under which the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company received its grants of public land, to vest the lands absolutely in the company, without a right to the Government to reacquire
them on failure of the company to comply with the conditions of the
grant; and no express provision for a forfeiture was necessary in order
to fix the rights of the Government, and to authorize reentry in case of
breach of condition.
The act of April 20, 1871, c. 33, 17 Stat. 19, did not alter, amend or repeal the
act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, in these respects, except so far
as It permitted a foreclosure of any mortgage which might be put on the
lands by the company to operate upon lands opposite and appurtenant to
the then completed part of the road, and so far as it gave assurance that
no forfeiture would be insisted upon for conditions then broken.
When the United States grant public lands upon condition subsequent, they
have the same right to refnter upon breach of the condition which a pnvate grantor would have under the same circumstances, which right is to
be exercised by legislation.
Lands in the Indian Territory belonging to the Indians did not pass under
the grant to the.railroad company; and the United States were not required by the statutes to extinguish the Indian title for the benefit of the
railroad company, nor could they be reasonably expected to do so.
As to Indian grants made subsequent to the grant to the railroad company,

OCTOBER TERM, 189A.
Statenient of the Case.
there was no restriction Ulponl

lie right of the government to dispose

of

public lands in any way it saw lit prior to the filing of the map of definite locatioii and if it assumaed to dispose of lands within the grant,
after the rights of the railroad company had attached, such action would
be void, but it would be no answer to the obligation of the company to
complete its road within the stipulated time.
Congress did not exceed its powers in forfeiting tis grant.

Tits was an action of ejectinent brought by the railroad
company in the District Court for San Ifiguel County, New
Mexico. to recover of the defendant Mingus a parcel of land,
to which the plaintiff clained title under its land grant, made
by act of Congress of July 27, 1866, c. 27S, 14 Stat. 292.
Upon the trial it gave evidence tending to show that the land
in controversy was part of an odd-numbered section of public
lands within the primary limits of the grant, and was vacant,
and in all respects subject to the grant, both at the date
thereof and at the date of the definite location of the road
(March 12, 1872). and therefore passed to an(d became vested
in the company at that date.
Defendant pleaded not guilty, and relied upon a patent for
the same land issued December 10, 1891, to one Albert W
Bray founded upon a prei;niption filing niade Januarv 9, 1888.
Whilst conceding the original vesting of title in the railroad
company on March 12. 1872, and its undisturbed contitianco
until July 6, 1886, defendant-claimed that under an act of
Congress, approved upon that (lay c. 607, 241 Stat. 123, declaring a forfeiture of the land grant, the title of the company
was annulied and became revested in the United States, and,
from that time, the land was properly subject to premptlon.
Plaintiff denied the validity of the alleged act of forfeiture,
contended that it was ineffectual to annul its title, and hence
that the patent of the defendant was issued without authority
and was void upon its face.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows
The company was originally incorporated by the act of July
27 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292, and by § 1 of the act was authorized to construct a continuous railroad and telegraph line
from " the town of Springfield, in the State of- Missouri,

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINTIUS.

415

Statement of the Case.

thence to the western boundary line of said State, and thence
by the most eligible railroad route as <hall be determined by
said company to a point on the Canadian River, thence to the
town of Albuquerque on the river Del Norte, and thence by
way of the Agua Frio or other suitable pass to the headwaters
of the Colorado Chiquito, and thence along the thirty-fifth
parallel of latitude, as near as may be found most suitable for a
railway route, to the Colorado River, at such point as may be
selected by said company for crossing, thence by the most
practicable and eligible route to the Pacific. The said company
shall have the right to construct a branch from the point at
whmch the road strikes the Canadian River eastwardly, along
the most suitable route as selected, to a point in the western
boundary line of Arkansas at or near the town of Van
Buren."

By § 2, authority was given to the company to take materials from the public lands adjacent to the line of the
road for its construction, and the United States agreed to
"extinguish, as rapidly as may be consistent with public
policy and the welfare of the Indians, and only by their voluntary cession, the Indian title to all lands falling under the
operation of this act and acquired in the donation to the road
named in the act."
By § 3, there was granted to the company, for the purpose
of aiding in the construction of the railroad and telegraph,
etc., "every alternate section of public land, not mineral,
designated by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate sections per mile on each side of said railroad line, as said
company may adopt, through the Territories of the United
States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each
side of said railroid whenever it passes through any State."
By § 6, the President of the United States was to cause the
lands to be surveyed for forty miles in width on both sides of
the entire line of said road, "after the general route shall be
fixed, and as fast as may be required by the construction of
said railroad."
The eighth, ninth and seventeenth sections were as follows
"SEo. 8. And be i9 farther enacted, That each and every

OCTOBER TERMI, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

grant, rigbt and privilege herein are so made and given to
and accepted by said Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company,
upon and subject to the following conditions, namely That
the said company shall commence the work on said e'oad
within two years from the approval of this act by tne 'resident, and shall complete not less than fifty miles per year
after the second year, and shall construct, equip, furnish and
complete the main line of the whole road by the fourth day
of July, anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-eiglt.
"Sc. 9. And be it further enacted, That the United States
make the several conditional grants herein, and that the said
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company accept the same,
upon the further condition that if the said company make
any breach of the conditions hereof, and allow the same to
continue for upwards of one year, then, in such case, at any
time hereafter, the United States may do any and all acts
and things which may be needful and necessary to imure a
speedy completion of the said road."
"SEC. 17. And be it further enacted, That the said company is authorized to accept to its own use any grant. donation, loan, powei, franchise, aid or assistance which may bc
granted to or conferred on said company by tbt ('ongresz
of the United States, by the legislature of an% Ftate, or b'
any corporation, person -or persons, or -by any Indian tribe or
nation through whose reservation the road herein provided
for may pass, and said corporation is authorized to h,-,ld awld
enjoy any such grant, donation, loan, power, franchise, aid or
assistance, to its own use, for the purpose aforesaid
'rovuded,
That any such grant or donation, power, aid or assistance Irom
any Indian tribe or nation shall be subject to the approval of
the President of the United States."
By the twentieth section the right was reserved to Con-.
gress, "at any time. having due regard for the rights ot said
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company," to "add to, alter,
amend or repeal this act:"
The company proceeded with its organization, but uv tc
April 20, 1871, had only been able to construct i . mes oi
its road, including 34 miles in the Indian Territory extc-rd.n!',

ATLA.- yL

AND PACIFIC RAILRUAD v. MINGUS.
Statenient o~f tb

417

Case.

w'nt'.,,r~l fr)m its e'istern terminus at Spi;,ngfield, Missouri.

AP,,nc that cotriction in the State of Missouri, there was
hit, little un'appropriated public land -available under the
ran . tit md in building the roati. From the west line of
M-i oniir to the west line -f the Indian; Territory about 350

mniks, thv lands were unsur"eyed, and were wholly embraced
extinguished.
construction.
Frm thence, through New Alexico and Arizona to the Coloradc. River, the route of the road ran tirougi numerous reservaticins oco, pied by hostile and warlike Indians, the boundaries
ot which reservations were subsequentlv eniarged by the
United States, and new reservations created. Most of the lands
whiich were nut included in such unex-ignuised Indian occupancy were thn unsurveved, and we:e Largely taken up bxV
unadjusted Mexican land clams. It. also appears that the
surveying and engineering parties of the conmanv were
stopped by orders from the Secretary of the Interior from
contiuwnig westward through the Indian Territory and the
company was unable to proceed until March. 1S71, and then
only upon executing a bond in the sum of half i million of
dollars, conditioned for the protection of the Itdian tribes.
through whose territory the line of route was requred to pass
by the act of Congress.
For these reasons the company was compelled t, stop work,
and apneal to Congress for express authority to i:iortgage its
lnd giant in advance of the construction ot tira road, so as
tcq -eure capital for the prosecution of the work Thereupon.
o,,i Apjil 21), 1871, C'ongress passed aii act. c. 1',, 1 Stt. I,.
auiit.rizing the company tmortoage its Fropertv with a
p: viso that "if the company snall hereaftor suffer any breach
ot 'h conditions ot the act above referred to kJulx' 27, 1866).
undur which it is organized, the rights of those clm)niing under
ary mortgage made by the company to the lands granted to
it by -aid act shall extend only to so much thereof as shall
be cotermitious with or appertain to that part of said road
,hich shall have been constructed at the time of the foreclosi e of said mortgage."

in Indi ti titles which the United States had not
.1 q,1 none ,f thoe lands were avait.,jle to od in

VOL. CiX v-27

OCTUBE.I

TERM, 1896.

Statement of the Case.

Under the authority of this act the company executed mortgages to the aggregate amount of $31,500,000, of which
$3,590,629 was secured by mortgages upon the central diision
of the road extending from the west line of M1issouri to
Albuquerque, and embracing the lands here-in controversy
By July 4, 1878, the date fixed by the act of 1866 for
the completion of the road, the company had constructed
only 125 miles out of the 2267 miles contemplated for the
entire line, but, in order to nave an outlet to the markets of
St. Louis, and the transportation facilities of the Mississippi
River, it had, in October, 1870, purchased the Southern Pacific
railroad, then built from Pacific City, thirty-seven miles west
of St. Louis, to Springfield. Owing, as is claimed, to the
financial panic of 1873, and the .failure of the United States
to extinguish the Indian titles through the Indian Territory,
or of the company to acquire them, no substantial progress
was made with the road from 1871 until about the beginning
of 1880, when the company made such arrangements as to
enable it to resume the work of construction. In order to do
this, however, it had to give up operations in the Indian
Territory, and by making connection with the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6, whose construction had then reached
the line of the Atlantic and Pacific at Albuquerque in New
Mexico, it became practicable to build westward to the Pacific
Ocean, and thus avoid many of the obstacles and hindrances
which had been encountered in the Indian Territory There
were then constructed and equipped, at a cost of $16,000,000,
about fifty miles more in the Indian Territory, and 560 miles
westward from Albuquerque to "The Needles" on the Colorado River, all of which were examined and accepted by
order of the President. It also acquired, by contract of
purchase at an expense of $7,290,000, two hundred and fortythree miles of road from The Needles to Mojave, California,
which had been constructed by the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, and by a trackage contract with the Southern
Pacific the Atlantic and Pacific obtained the right to run its
own cars to San Francisco, and to conduct to that point an
independent and competitive freight and passenger business.

ATLANTI

AND PACTFIC RAILIROAD v. MINGUS.

419

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

On July 6, 18S6, the company had about 1228 miles of constructed road, equipped and in operation, of which, however,
it had itself constructe& only 747 miles. That -portion of
the line from Sepulpa, in the Indian Territory, to Albu(uerque, and from Mojave to the Pacific,.were in 1886, and
still remain, unconstructed.
Upon .this state of facts, on July 6, 1886, Congress passed
an act, c. 637, 24 Stat. 123, declaring all the lands, excepting
the right of way, "adjacent to and coterminous with the
uncompleted portions of the main line of said road, embraced
within both the granted and indemnity limits, as contemplated"
by the act of organization, to be "forfeited and restored to
the public domain." T'he validity of this act raised the only
question at issue between the parties.
Upon the trial, the court directed a verdict for the defendant, plaintiff sued out a writ of error from the Supreme Court
of the Territory, which affirmed by a divided court the judgment of the court below, 34 Pac. Rep. 592, whereupon pl'aintiff
sued out a writ of error from this court.
Mfr E. J Phelps and Hr A. B. Browne, (with whom was
Ai A. T Britton on the brief,) forylaintiff in error.
When .the grant was, on March 12, 1872, .identified by the
filing and acceptance of the map of definite location the legal
title to the land in controversy vested in the railroad company
as of the date of the grant, and unless thereafter divested by
voluntary relinquishment, or by due process of law, the railroad company and its assigns have the continuing right
of possession against all subsequent claimants or patentees.
Un ted States v. Southern Paozj% Railroad,146 U S.570, 594,
595, .Deseret Salt Co. v Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241, TlVrzght v
Ros'berry, 121 U. S. 488.
These decisions state the law as reiteratedt by this court in
numerous other opinions, too familiar to require citation. It
may, therefore, be safely assumed as settled law that, inasmuch
as the land in controversy was part of an odd-numbered section,
not mineral, situate within the primary limits of the grant and

420

OCTOBER TEIM, 1S96.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

along the line of definite location filed and approved Maroh 12,
1872, and not included within any of the exceptions from the
grant, but in all respects subject thereto, the legal title of the
railroad company attached and the right of possession continued perfect, as against a subsequent patentee under the
United States. unless such legal title has been divested by
voiuntary relinquishment or by due process of law
There is no pretence of voluntary relinquishment, but the
court below has decided that the legal title vested in the railroad company, subject to a reserved right in the United States
to enforce a legislative forfeiture of the grant, upon failure to
construct withir a prescribsd time, that there was a breach
of such condition subsequent and that the act of July 6, 1886,
lawfully declared forfeiture and, by mere force of the statute,
reinvested the legal title in the United States.
In support of our contention as to the incorrectness of this
decision, and as to the -unconstitutionalitv and invalidity of
the act of Jtilv 6, 1886. the argument naturally invites a
careful examintion of the following propositions
1. What were the copditions subsequent of the grant of
July 27, Tb 6
-8. Was not said grant a legiilative contract equally binding
upon both parties thereto, and, if default upon part of the
ccurred kr was compelled, through failure
railroad conipan
of the United States to perform its contract obligations, could
the United Stat.s enfocc 3 s~'ch conditions subsequent 2
3. Were not 'ne rights reserved to the United States by
the act o July 27, !864. subordinated to the rights acquired
oy the subsequent act of ipril 20, 1871
4. Caii the lgal title once vested under the act of July 27,
1866, be divested by a mr - legislative declaration, containing,
no provision for any .iticial inquiry into the facts upon
wbich it is provided and .xtending to the grantee no opportunity of urging any equ;tA le or other considerations by reasvn
of which the or-ach of coadition might be excused, or the.
echarged 'I,
condition i6seli
I. The cour6 below hos assumed that the same right .f
absolute iorre ee wivich. in other land grants by Congr,.m

vTLANTIC AND PACIFIC 1 AiLLf%"iAl)4

1 1"(I

US

421

Argtiment for Pintiff in Error.

wvas expressly reserved to the United States, was t-qualiy reserved in this grant by necessary implication, The theory
seeras to be to read the terms of aiis stature, no matter how
Oflferent in expression or intent ns'in Patl- mateei't with othet
t,.ough wholly variant graiits.
But suppose that there had been no conditions subsequent
- no reservation of rights to the government - but simply a
grant without conditions? I. such case there could be no
invoking of the analogy of othcr 2rants, based upon conditions
subsequent, and with reservation of right to the grantor.
'such case would clearly be controlled by the P i'Wuiple of -the
('urtrightcase, 21 Wall. 310. 315, where this cou't held tha,
tbe title to 120 seotions authorized to be sold before construction was absolute, because "No conditions therefore of any
kind were imposed upon the State in the disposition of this
,luantity, Congres. relying upon the good faith of the State t
;.-e that its proce-ds were applied for the purp,,zez contemplated by the act."
In such case, at the utmost the United States would only be
entitled to the same equitable remedy that might obtait it
case of a private .grantor where consideration had wholly
.'iled. It would have to be pursued in, a cou rt of chancery,
and could not be effected by a mere legislativc declaration.
We therefore maintain with confidence that the conditions
subsequent of the act of 1866 are not to be read in the light
or analogy of other and wholly variant statutes. They are
to be tested by their .)wn expressions, with r'esort, in case of
ambiguity, to the purpose of Congress as shown ov cotemporaneous history
The only part of the Atlantic and Pacific grant which indicated an intent on the part of Congress to divest the grantee
of any rights for failure of timely performance is found'in the
19th section. That declared in unequivocal language that
unless the company obtained the required amount of subscriptions within a stipulated time, "the act ,hall oe null 9nd void."
The entire law will be searched in v..± for any Ather indication of an intent by O(ongreso.
II. The grant of Xuly 27, 1866, couuled with Oe obligations

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

on part of the government attached thereto, was not only
a, law which incorporated the company, but it was also a
legislative contract. To the performance of such contract
obligations the Government was as much bound as the grantee.
As this court said in the Sinkung Futnd cases, 99 U S. 700,
719 "The United States are as much bound by their contracts as are individuals. If they repudiate their obligations,
it is as much repudiation, with all the wrong and reproach
that term implies, as it would be if the repudiator had been a
state or a municipality or a citizen. No change can be made
in the title created by the grant of the lands or in the contract
for the subsidy bonds without the.consent of the corporation.
All this is indisputable."
The grant of lands was to enable the Atlantic and Pacflic
railroad to secure a construction fund. The absolute necessity for such governmental aid was the basis of the grant. In
the theory of the law the road could not be built without it.
Hence Congress said that we will give you this grant to aid
you in raising moneys for construction purposes, and we require you to utilize its proceeds by completing construction
within a given time, but, as the grant would be otherwise
valueless to you, we will agree to do the things necessary to
put it into available shape. Those absolutely necessary things,
and without which the lands were scarcely worth a penny,
were to extinguish the Indian titles and to survey the lands
(sections 2 and 6, act July 27, 1866). The road had to be
built from Springfield, Missouri, southwest to the Indian
Territory, and thence west for three hundred and fifty miles
through the Indian Territory It was promptly built to and
as far into the civilized parts of the Indian Territory as the
condition of the unextinguished titles would permit. Then it
had to cease operations and await the promised action of the
United States in extinguishing those titles.
It is confidently submitted that the United States can lawfully exercise no reserved right of forfeiture or otherwise
under the contract of July 27, 1866, so long as the United
States effectually bars the way to agreed performance by the
railroad company by failure to make the grant available

ATLANTIC AN]

PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

423

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

through the stipulated extinguishment of the Indian titles and
by identifying the grant by surveys. The principle contended
for has been heretofore announced by this court. In Dam8 v.
Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 230, -it was ruled that "1the rule at law
is, that if a condition subsequent be possible at the time of
making it, and becomes afterwards impossible to be complied
with, by the act of God, or the law, or the grantor, the estate
having once vested, is not thereby divested, but becomes absolute. The analogy of that rule applied here would blot out
these conditions. 'But this would be harsh and work injustice.
Equity will therefore not apply the rule to that extent. It
will regard the conditions as if no particular time fQr performance were specified2'
III. The.third question is equally pertinent whatever may
be determined to be the reserved power of the United States
under the act of July 27, .1866.
-At the time of the enactment of the law of April 20, 1871,
the railroad company was in default as to the condition contamed in section 8 of the act of July 27, 1866. Construction
had ceased for several years. Whatever was the. reserved
power of the United States upon condition broken, it had
then attached and was fully enforceable. Upon and applicable
to this condition of existing default and right of reentry for
condition broken, the act of 1871 was enacted. If it had been
the intention of Congress that upon such existing default con
struction should cease and the enterprise terminate, it would
surely have legislated in this act of 1871, in unambiguous terms,
for the resumption of the grant, or upon the continuance of
such right of resumption, if that was the reserved power in
the act of 1866. Instead of this the action of Congress, upon
the construction for which we contend, was in exact conformity with the powers reserved in sections 9 and 20, viz., to alter
or add to the act so as to promote the construction and insure
the completion of the road. For that purpose the act of 1871
offered a fresh inducement to the investment of private capital
in this national work. 'To that end, it authorized the company
to mortgage its lands to secure bonds to be issued, with the
one solitary limitation in the form of a proviso, that, in 'case

OCTOBE

TERM, 1896.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of subsequent breach of condition, the right of the inortgagees
should only extend to lands' coterminous with road constructed
at the time of the foreclosure of said mortgages.
The question turns upon the proviso. There is nothing
.ambiguous in its language. "At the time of the foreclosure
of said mortgage" are words of common and every day use.
Lawyer and layman understand them alike. The only way
to avoid their ordinary effect is to construe them out of exist.ence, either by treating those words as surplusage, or by substituting others in their stead. It is surely a reasonable contention, that if .by the terms of the original act an absolute
forfeiture of the grant was t. .)e the consequence of a breach
of condition, and if it had been the intention of Congress,
-while granting subsequent authority to mortgage the grant, to
limit the right of mortgagees to lands appertaining to road
constructed at date of the breach, or at date of forfeiture,
Congress would have said so ln apt terms. It would not l4ave
left room for doubt as to its intent.
Congress, by this act of.1871, intentionally legislated, 1st,
to condone all past default, the language used. being "that if
the company shall hereafter suffer any breach of the conditions," etc., 2d, to entirely change the conditions of the legislative contract so as to subordinate the xeserved power of
the Government to the rights of the mortgagees. The words
"at the time of reentry upon conditions broken" were purposely stricken from the meaning of the contract, and in lieu
thereof was inserted the equally plain but essentially variant
words, "at the time of the foreclosure of the mortgage." If
the corporation failed to apply the land grant and the moneys
-raised thereon to. seasonable construction, Congress assumed
thaTthe mortgagees would intervene for their own protection,
anid would see that their~security was made good by construetion. It further assumed that a foreclosure of their mortgages
would be evidence tnat both the company and its mortgagees
had abandoned the work, and in such event it provided, that
the United States could then see to the intended application
of the residue of lands not coterminous with construction.
-IV The legal title once vested cannot, under the act of'

ATLA-NTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v MINGUS.

425-

Argument for Plautiff in -Error.

July 27, 1866, be divested by mere legislative declaration, containing no provision for any judicial inquiry into the facts
upon which it is founded and extending to the grantee no
opportunty of urging any equitable or other consideration by
reason of which the breach of condition might be excused, or
the condition itself be discharged.
The act of 1886 is a naked declaration of forfeiture and a
legislative restoration of the lands to the public domain. It
contains no recital of breach of condition. It alleges no failure of performance upon the part of the grantee. It provides
for no judicial inqmrv into alleged facts of failure to perform,
nor the legal effect thereof, nor offsets thereto. It authorizes
no subsequent proceedings of any kind to effect a forfeiture
or to extend a hearing to the parties M interest. It contains
no suggestion of any purpose of devoting the lands to the
completion of the road in some other way, or even through
some other agency There is no provision protecting -the
vested rights of the mortgagees, nor making the proposed
restoration of the lands subject to their possible rights. The
law simply declares forfeiture and requires an immediate restoration of the lands to the public domain. It seeks by legislative declaration to divest the outstanding fee-simple title,
and by mere force of the statute to reinvest that title absolutely in the United States.
The power of the United States to take these lands from
the railroad company and apply them in some other way
or through some other agency to the construction of the
"continuous" highway provided for by the act of 1866 may
not be seriously challenged, but the forfeiture act of 1886
does not even pretend to do that. It simply restores the
lands to the public domain, and thereby subjects them to sale
and entry under the general public land laws. Where then,
as in this case, the United States patents them off to an Individual entryinan, it is manifest they cannot be applied to the
purpose to which they were thus originallv dedicated. viz.,
the final completed construction of this "continuous" national
and governmental highway under the contract of the United
States to devote them to that purpose. and no other.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

'We submit that a mere legislative declaration is not valid
so as to effectuate that purpose, that it operates simply as an
announcement of the legislative will to assert the reserved
rights of the government, but that some proceeding, which
shall have a semblance of "due process of law," must follow
to determine the rights involved, so as to divest the title of
the grantee and to reinvest it in the grantor.
_Mr Asststant Attorney General Dickinson for the United
States. Hr
1Joseph I. Call filed a brief for same.
Miz. JusTicE BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

While the value of the land involved in this case is small,
the question at issue between the parties affects the validity of
the entire land grant of the company adjacent to and coterninous with all that part of the main line of the road not completed on July 6, 1886. The case turns wholly upon the
validity of the act of that date, forfeiting that portion of the
land grant.
Plaintiff claims in this connection that the act was invalid,
inasmuch as ttle United States had failed to perform their own
-obligations in two particulars First,that they not only failed
to extinguish the Indian title to lands along the prescribed
route of the road, but had since further encumbered the grant
by the creation of additional Indian reservations, carved out
of the granted lands. ,Second, that they also largely failed to
survey the lands as required by the sixth section, although
repeatedly urged and requested to do so by the railroad
company
1. The reserved rights of the United States with respect to
*this land grant are contained in the eighth, ninth and twentieth
sections of the original act, and are as follows By § 8 the
grant was made subject to the -condition that the company
-should commence work within two years from the-approval of
the act, and should complete not less than fifty miles a year
ater the second year, and should complete the main line of

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

427

Opinion of the Court.

the whole road by July 4, 1878. By § 9, a "further condition" was imposed thdt if the company made any breach of
the conditions of the act, and allowed the same to continue
for upwards of one year, the United States might do anything
which, might be needful and necessary to secure the speedy
completion of the road. And by § 20 the general power was
reserved to Congress to alter, amend or repeal the act, subject
only to a due regard for-the rights of the company
The position of the plaintiff is that the rights of the United
States were fixed and limited by § 9, that Congress did not
intend that the grant should ever be forfeited, but that, upon
a breach of any of the conditions, the United States could only
take steps itself to insure the speedy completion of the road.
What steps the government could take in that direction,
and what the effects of its action upon the land grant might
be, it is difficult to decide. It would seem highly inequitable,
however, that if the government were compelled to go on and
complete the road at its own expense the company should
yet be able to retain the land grant, the condition of which
was the completion of the road at its expense. The act makes
no provision whatever for the disposition of the land grant
in this contingency
What remedy the government would
have had in case it had elected itself to go on and complete
the road is left entirely to conjecture. Some further action
on the part of Congress would seem to have been necessary
Aside from this difficulty, however, we are clearly of
opinion that Congress intended to impose this simply as a
"further condition," consequent upon a breach by the railroad company of its stipulations, and to reserve to the United
States the option of forfeiting the grant entirely, or of taking
measures to insure the speedy completion of *the road. This
further condition was obviously intended for the benefit of
the-government, and with no purpose of merging other conditions, or of superseding other remedies to which it might be
entitled. While, by the act of July 27, 1866, like other
similar acts passed about the same time, it was doubtless
intended that the grant should operate ?n prsenti,.it certainly never could have been contemplated that, in case the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

company took no steps toward the completion of the road,
the goverinent could not forfeit the -grant, and could resort
to no other remedy than building the road itself. It certainly
would be highly inequitable as well as impolitic that the company should retain the land grant and do nothing toward the
construction of the road, or that the lands granted should be
permanently withdrawn from the public domain. A more
reasonable interpretation would be to say that Congress contemplated a possibility that the company night proceed in
good faith with the construction of the road, and might so
nearly approach its completion that it would be for the best
interests of the government to go on itself and complete it
rather than to insist upon an- entire forfeiture of the grant.
Even if § 9 were intended as a limitation upon the power of
Congress, which might otherwise be inferred from § 8, the
power reserved by § 20 to alter, amend or repeal the act,
except so far as its exercise might interfere with the just rights
of the company, being the latest- expression of the legislative
will, may properly be construed to dominate the others.
But little light is to. be gained in the consideration of this
question by referring to the conditions for forfeiture or reinvestment of title under other railway land grant acts. There is
no such uniformity in the terms of their conditions subsequent
as to lead us to give any different construction to the three sections in question than such as their language plainly requires.
It cannot be supposed that Congress intended to vest a title
in the railway company to this enormous grant of lands without contemplating that the Government might in some way
reacquire it in case of a failure of the company to comply
with the conditions of the grant. No express provision for a
forfeiture was required to fix the rights of the Government.
-If an estate be granted upon a condition subsequent, no
express words of forfeiture or reinvestiture of title are necessary to authorize the grantor to reenter in case of a breach of
such conditions. Stanley v 6olt 5 Wall. 119, Jfead v Ballard, 7 Wall. 290, Ruch v Rock Asland, 97 U. S. 693,
Hfayden v. Stoughton, 5 Pick. 528, Jackson v. Allen, 3 Cowen,
220, Gray v Blanchard, 8 Pick. 283. And the fact that

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

429

Opinion of the Court.

Congress imposed as a further condition the right to complete
the road itself, did not deprire it of the power of resorting to
other remedies to which the breach of such conditions entitled it.
2. As to the proper construction of the act of April 20, 1871.
This act, in general terms, authorized the railroad company to
make and issue its bonds in such sums as it pleased, and to
mortgage its road, etc., to secure them, with a proviso that if
the company should thereafter suffer any breach of the conditions of its act of organization, the rights of those claiming
under the mortgage of the land grant should extend only to
so much thereof as should be "coterminous with or appertain
to that part of said road which shall have been constructed at
the time of the foreclosure of said mortgage." Conceding
that, with respect to the rights of the mortgagees, at least,
this act was a condonation of the breach of any condition
which had previously occurred, it left the rights of the Government unimpaired with respect to any breach which should
thereafter occur, and expressly limited the rights of the mortgagees to such land as should appertain to and be coterminous
with the completed portion of the road at the time of the
fo'eclosure. It is insisted by the plaintiff that the final words
of this act indicate an intention on the part of Congress to
extend the time for the construction of the road until such
time as the mortgagees might see fit to foreclose. But we do
not so read it. There is nothing m the act evincing an intention on the part of Congress to waive any of the conditions
of the act of 1866, except so far as such conditions had already
been broken. Congress doubtless anticipated that the mortgage might be foreclosed, and desiring to provide against the
possible contingency that the mortgagees might claim the
right to sell the entire land grant upon the foreclosure, declared that it should operate only upon that part of the grant
appertaining to the completed portion. If there were any
ambiguity in this act we should feel bound, upon familiar
principles, to give the Government the benefit of the doubt,
Dubuque & PaqXo Railroad v. Zichteld7, 23 How 66, 88,
Leavenworth, Lawrence &q. Railroad v. United Stat "92
U. S. 733, 740, Cooeaw Minig Co. v South Carolina,144

OCTOBER TERM,, 1896.
Opinion of. the Court.

U. S. 50, 562. But in our view there is no case made calling
for the application of this rule, as the intention of Congress
tor simply limit the remedy of the mortgagees seems entirely
clear. The original act being silent upon the subject of mortgaging the-grant, there is reason to suppose that Congress
passed the act for the purpose of- resolving any doubts that
,capitalists may have entertained with respect to such power.
The mortgageesi standing in the place of the mortgagor, had
no greater rights than it had, and must be held to have known
that they were. taking an estate which was defeasible upon
condition- broken. It cannot be supposed that Congress intended to postpone indefinitely, or until the mortgagees chose
to foreclose, any -remedy it might have against the mortgagor
for a breach of its covenants. The plain meaning of the
proviso isto permit any foreclosure of the mortgage to operate
only upon such lands.as are opposite and appurtenant to that
part of the road which shoild be constructed at the time of
the foreclosure, but not to extend for a day the time within
which the road should be completed. The act also had a
purpose in its assurance to mortgagees that no forfeiture would
be insisted, upon for conditions already lroken, and that they
might safely advance their' money, if no breach should thereafter occur. Except to -this exteni there was no intention by
this act to alter, amend or repeal the act of 1866.
3. Coming -now to .the act of 1886, forfeiting the gxant, it
is claimed-in the first place that Congress has no right by.
simple act to forfeit a title already vested, without providing
for a judicial inquiry as to whether there has been a breach
of a conflition-on the part of the grantee, and the legal effect
of such breach, and, also, whether there has not been a breach
on the part qf the United States which would estop them front
claiming a forfeiture. There. is no doubt that, where an estate
is granted subject to a condition subsequent, the mere fact
that there has been a breach of such condition will not revest
the title in the grantor without some act or declaration upon
his part. Ruch v. Rock JMand, 97 U. S. 693, 696. In this
,casetit was said by Mr.Justice Swayne that.Plit was not
denied by the plaintiff that the title had passed, and that the

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

431

Opinion of the Court.

estate had vested by the dedication.

If the condition subse-

quent were broken, that did not, ZiPofacto, produce a reverter

of the title. The estate continued in full force until the
proper step was taken to consummate the forfeiture. This
act can only be done by the grantor during his lifetime, and
after his death by those in privity of blood with him." In
the case of a private grant this is ordinarily done by reentry
on the part of the grantor, although, as was said in this case,
"bringing suit for the premises by the proper party is sufficient to authorize a recovery without actual entry or a previous demand of possession." Cowell v. SAprngs'Co., 100 U. S.
55, Austin v Cam bridgeport.Parmh,21 Pick. 215, Jackson
v Crysler, 1 Johns. Cas. 125, Iolford v. Ballard, 39 N. Y
147, Cruger v. oltcaury, 41 1N. Y 219, Cornelius v. In,
2 Dutch. 376.
But where the grant is a public one, this court has held in
a series of cases that the remedy of the Government is by an
inquest of office or office found, a judicial proceeding but little
used in this country, or by a legislative act directing the possession and appropriation of the land.
Blackstone defines an inquest of office as "an inquiry made
by the king's officer, his sheriff, coroner or escheator, rnrtute
qo/iii, or bv writ to them sent for that purpose, or by commissioners specially appointed, concerning any matter that
entitles the king to the possession of lands or tenements, goods
or chattels. This is done by a jury of no determinate number;
These inquests
being either twelve, or less, or more.
of office were devised by law, as an authentic means to. give
the king his right by solemn matter of record, without which
lie, in general, can neither take nor part from anything."
3 Black. Com. 258, 259.
The necessity of an inquest of office was considered by this
court at an early day in two cases. In Smith v MAaryland,
6 Cranch, 26, it was held that, by the confiscation act of
Maryland, passed in 1780, before the adoption of the Constitution, interests in land vere completely divested by operation
of law1 without office found. The validity of the act was
apparently not considered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896
Opinion of the Court.

The case of Fairfax's .Devieev Hunter's Lessee, 7 Oranch,
603, involved the title to a large -tract of land in Virginia,
granted to Lord Fairfax. The lands were devised by will to
Denny Fairfax, a British subject, who never became a citizen
of the United States, but always resided in England, and was
an alien enemy In 1789, the governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia granted the lands by patent to Hunter, a
citizen of Virginia, who entered into possession prior fo the
institution of the action. It was the opinion of the court that
the title acquired by an alien by purchase is not divested until
office found, although it was contended that the common law
as to inquests of office had been dispensed with by statute, so
as to make the grant to Hunter complete and perfect. As to
this point Mr. Justice Story observed, p. 622 "We will not
say that it was not competent for the legislature (supposing
no treaty in the way), by a special act, to have vested the land
in the Commonwealth without an inquest of office for the
cause of alienage. But such an effect ought not, upon principles of public policy, to be presumed upon light grounds,
that an inquest of office should be made in cases of alienage,
is a useful and important restraint upon public proceedings.
It- prevents individuals from being harassed by numerous suits introduced, by litigious grantees. It enables the
owner to contest the question of alienage directly by a traverse of the office. It affords an opportunity for the public to
know the nature, the value and the extent of its acquisitions,
pro defeetu hkredis, and above all it operates as a salutary
suppression of that corrupt influence which the avarice of
speculation might otherwise urge upon the legislature. The
common law, therefore, ought not to be dbemed to be repealed, unless the language of a statute be clear and explicit
for this purpose." It was further held that *during the war
the lands in controversy were never, by any publia law, vested
in. the Commonwealth. It was also, held that the treaty of
1794 with Great Britain completely protected and confirmed
the title of Denny Fairfax. Mr. Justice Johnson, dissenting,
was of opinion that the interest acquired by Denny Fairfax
under the devise was a mere scintilla jum, and that that.

A 'rL kNTIC AND PACIFIC .RAILROAD v. M1INGUS.

433

Opinion of the Court.

ectntilla was extinguished by the grant of the State vesting

the tract in Uunter, that it was competent for the State to
assert its rights over an alien's propertv by other means than
by an inquest of office, that in Great Britain, in the case of
treason, an inquest of office had been expressly dispensed with
by the statute of 33 II. VIII, c. 30, and that he saw no reason
why it was not competent for the legislature of Virginia to
do the same.
Subsequent cases in this court have asserted this power to
exist beyond any controversy As was said in Unsted States
v. Repenhgny, 5 Wall. 211, 268 "The mode of asserting .or
of assuming the forfeited grant is subject to the legislative
authority of the Government. It may be after judicial investigation, or by taking possession directly, under the authority
of the Government, without these urelimmary proceedings."
Practically the same language is used in &hkuenberg v. Harmiinan. 21 Wall. 44, 63.

In Farn8worth v Minnesota & Paoefr

Railroad Co., 9 U. S. 49, 66, we said ",
A forfeiture by the
State of an interest in lands and connected franchises, granted
for the construction of a public work, may be declared for
non-conipliance with the conditions annexed to their grant or
to their possession when the. forfelture is provided by statute,
witiout judicial proceedings to ascertain and determine the
failure of the grantee to perform the conditions. Such mode
of ascertainment and determination - that is,
by judiciil. proceedings-is attended with many conveniences and advantages over any other mode, as it establishes as matter of
record, inporting verity against the grantee, the facts upon
which the forfeiture depends. and thus avoids uncertaanty in
titles and consequent litigation. But that mode is not essential to the. divestiture of the interest where the grant is for
the accomplishment of an object in which the public is concerned, and is made by a law which expressly provides for
the forfeiture when that. object is not accomplished. Where
land and franchises are thus held, any public assertion by
legislative act of the ownerslip of the State, after default of
the grantee -such as an act resuming control of them- and
appropriating them to particular uses, or granting them to
VIOL. cLxv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

others to carry out the original object - will be equally effectual and operative."
These cases were all quoted with approval, and the doctrine
reasserted in cMcken v United States, 97 U. S. 204, 217,
Fan IVyck v .neval, 106 U. S. 360, 368.
These cases are not put upon the ground that the United
States reserved the right to declare a forfeiture, or even provided expressly for a reversion of title in case of a breach,
but upon the general ground that the Government was vested
with the same right as a private -grantor, upon breach of a
condition subsequent, though such right was, from the neces-sities of the case, to be exercised in a somewhat different manner, viz., by legislative act instead of reentry
But while we think the practice of forfeiting by legislative
act is too well settled to be now disturbed, we do not wish
to be understood as saying that this power may be arbitrarily
exelcsed, or that the grantee may not set up in defence any
facts which lie might lay before a jury in a judicial inquisition. It would comport neither with the dignity of the Gov
ernment nor with the constitutional rights of the grantee, to
hold that the Government by an arbitrary act might devest
the latter of his title when there had been no breach of the
conditions subsequent, or when the Government itself had
been manifestly in default in the performance of its stipulations. The inquiry in each case is a judicial one, whether
there has been, upon either side, a failure to perform, and
it makes but little practical difference whether such inquiry
precedes or follows the reentry or act of forfeiture.
The charge, in this connection, is that the Government not
only failed in its legal pbligation to extinguish the Indian titles
and to survey the lands, but, upon the contrary, has still further burdened these titles with the very cloud it stipulated
to remove by additional reservations in favor of the Indians.
The main contest in the case has been upon this point. In
locating thie road between Springfield, in Missouri, and Albuquerque, in New Mexico, the most direct route lay, for 350
miles, through the Indian Territory To determine wThether
the Government has been derelict in this particula-, it is nec-

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

435

Opinion of the Court..

essary to compare the several sections of the act to ascertain
exactly what the grant coverecl/and to what exi-ent the legal
rights of the grantee were impaired by the non-action of the
Government. By the third section of the act a grant was made
of twenty sections per mile on each side of the line through the
Territome8, and ten sections per mile through the States, subject to the conditions that "whenever, on the line thereof, the
United States shall have full title not reserved,,sold, granted
or otherwise appropriated, and free from pre6mption -or other
claims, or rights, at the time the line of said road is designated
by a plat thereof, filed in the office of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, and whenever, prior to said time,
any of said sections or part of sections shall have been
granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or
preempted or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be
selected by said company in lieu thereof." If the grant stood
upon this language alone, there could be no doubt that, as the
lands in the Indian Territory had been set apart for the sole
use and occupation of various Indian tribes, they were reserved lands within the meaning of that section. Zeavenworth, Lawrence &c. Rdailroad v Umnted States, 92.1U. S. 733.
It was held in this case that a grant of lands, in similar terms.
to the one under consideration, did not applyto lands which
had been reservecr to the Osage tribe of Indians within the
State of Kansas, whether -the Indian right- were extinguished
before or after the definite location-of the route. See also
KYansas Pacftc Railway v Dunmeyer, 113 U. S.629, Bardon v. Northern Pacfic Railroad,145 U S.535.
Indeed, it is open to serious doubt whether that large tract
of land, known distinctively as the Indian Territory, is a Ter:
ritory of the United States within the meaning of the act.
While, for certain purposes, such for instance as the enforcement of the criminal and internal revenue laws, it has beep.
recognized as such, and within the jurisdiction of the United
States, United States v. Rogers, 4 How 567, Te Oherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616, a reference to some of the treaties, under
which it is held by the Indians, indicates that it stands in an
entirely different relation to the United States from other

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

Territories and that for most purposes it is to be considered
as an independent country Thus in the treaty of December
29, 1835, 7 Stat. 478, with the Cherokees, whereby the United
,States granted and conveyed by patent to the Cherokees a
portion of this territory, the United States, in article 5, covenanted and agreed that the land ceded to the Cherokees
should "in no future time, without their consent, )e included
within the territorial limits or jurisdiction of any State or Territory", and by further treaty of August 16, 1846, 9 Stat. 871,
provided (Art. 1) " that the lands now occupied by the Cherokee Nation shall be secured .to the whole Cherokee people
for their common use and benefit, and a patent shall be issued
for the same." So, too, by treaty with the Choctaws of September 27, 1830, 7 Stat. 333, granting a portion of the Indian
Territory to them, the United States (Art. 4) secured to the
"Choctaw Nation of Red People the jurisdiction and government of all the persons' and property that may be within their
limits west, so that no Territory or State shall ever have the
right to pass laws for the government of the Choctaw Nation
of Red People and their descendants, and that no part of the
land granted shall ever be embraced in any Territory or State
but the United States shall forever secure said Choctaw Nation from, and against, all laws except such as from time to
time may be enacted in their own national councils, not inconsistent," etc. And in a treaty of March 24-, 1832, 7 Stat. 366,
with the Creeks (Art. 14), the Creek country west of the
Mississippi was solemnly guaranteed to these Indians, "nor
shall any State or Territory ever have a right to pass laws
for the government of such Indians, but they shall be allowed
to govern themselves, so far as may be compatible with the
general jurisdiction which Congress may think proper to exercise over them."
Under the guaranties of these and other similar treaties the
Indians have proceeded to establish and carry on independent
governments of their own, enacting and executing their own
laws, punishing their own criminals, appointing their own
officers, raising and expending their own revenues. Their
postion, as early as 1855, is indicated by the following extract

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

437

Opinion of the Court.

from the opinion of this court in Mackey v. Cox, 18 How 100;
103
"A question has been suggested whether the Cherokee people
should be considered or treated as a foreign state or territory
The fact that they are under the Constitution of the Umon,
and subject to acts of Congress regulating trade, is a sufficient
answer to the suggestion. They are not only within our
jurisdiction, but the faith of the nation is pledged for their
protection. In some respects they bear the same relation to
the Federal Government as a Territory did in its second grade
of government under the ordinance of 1787. Such Territory
passed its own laws, subject to the approval of Congress, and
its inbabitants were subject to the Constitution and acts of
Congress. The principal difference consists in the fact that
the Cherokees enact their own laws, under the restriction
stated, appoint their own officers, and pay their own expenses.
This, however, is.no reason why the laws and proceedings of
the Cherokee territory, so far as relates to rights claimed
under them, should not be placed upon the same footing as
other Territories in the Union. It is not a foreign, but a
domestic territory - a Territory which originated under our
Constitution and laws."
Similar language is used with reference to these Indians in
Ilolden v Joy, 17 Wall. 211, 242. Under these circumstances
it could scarcely be expected that the United States should be
called upon to extinguish, for the benefit of a railroad company,
which had chosen to locate its route through this Territory, a
title guaranteed to the Indians by solemn treaties and which
bad been possessed by them for upwards of forty years with
the powers of an ahnost independent government.
The terms of the second section of the land grant act indicate that nothing of this kind was contemplated. The United
States (lid not agree to extinguish the Indian title absolutely
but only "as rapidly as niav be consiste-it with public policy
and the welfare of the Indians, and odly by their voluntary
cession." Whether an extinguishment of -n Indian title at
all was consistent with public policy and the welfare of the
Tndians could only be determined by Congress, or the execu-

OCTOBER TERM, "1896.
Opnion of the Court.

tive officers of the Government, whethier it could be obtained
by voluntary cession could only be determined by the acts of
the Indians themselves.
In Buttz v Northern Pacdflo Railroad, 119 U S. 55,
wherein a grant to the N~orthern Pacific Railroad, with a
similar provision for the extinguishment of Indian titles, was
under consideration, it was held that, under the principal
treaties applicable to that case. the grant operated to convey
the fee to the, company, subject to the right of occupancy by
the Indians, but that the right of the Indians could not.be
interfered with or determined, except by the United States;
that no private individual could invade it, and the manner,
time and conditions of its extinguishment were matters solely
for the consideration of the Government, and were not open
to contestation in the judicial tribunals. It appeared m that
case that the United States had full title to the lands, subject
to a mere right of occupancy on the part of the Indians.
With respect to the power of the United States to extinguish
the Indian titles, it was observed in Beecher v Wetherby, 95
U. S. 517, 525 "It is to be presumed that in this matter the
United States would be governed by such considerations of
justice as would control a Christian people in their treatment
of an ignorant and dependent race. Be that as it may,
the propriety or justice of their action towards the Indians
with respect to their lands is a question of governmental
policy, and is not a matter operf to discussion-in a controversy
between third parties, neither of whom derives title from the
Indians."
The railroad company was in no position to insist that the
Government should extinguish these iitles, at least without
affirmatively proving that the Indians were willing to- make
the cession, and that it was consistent with publiq policy and
their own general welfare to permit them to do do. It made
the Government its arbiter in this particular. Indeed, it is
doubtfuil if the engagement of the Government -amounted to
anything more than an expression of its willingness to assist the
company in acquiring. Indian titles, if the company could persuade the Indians to relinquish such titles, and the Government

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

439

Opinion of the Court.

considered it consonant with their welfare to do so. The stipulation should be read in connectmon with the seventeenth section of the act which authorized the company to accept grants
from "any Indian tribe or nation through whose reservation
the road herein provided for may pass," provided that any
such grant or donation, power, aid or assistance from any
Indian tribe or nation should be subject to the approval of the
President of the United States. This proviso is obviously
inconsistent with any general undertaking on the part of the
Government to extinguish all Indian titles. That it required
the United States absolutely and at all hazards to extinguish
such titles, and to take from the Indians a strip of land forty
miles in width through the entire Territory, and open it to
settlement, is not only inconsistent with their treaties and with
their agreement with the company, but one which involved a
grave disturbance, if not practically the upsetting of a long
established Indian government. In fact, Congress promised
nothing in this particular from which the company could
claim a legal breach of their agreement, without at least
showing that the Indians were willing to cede that portion of
their territory, and that public policy and their own welfare
required this to be done.
Plaintiff admits that there was a reserved discretion in the
Government as to the circumstances under which the Indian
titles should be extinguished, but insists that, so long as that
discretion was exdrcised and performance withheld, the Government was in no position to assert a right of forfeiture -in
other words, that so long as fulfilment by the company reoained impossible, by reason of the failure of the Government to keep its promises, no matter for what reason, the
power to insist upon performance by the railroad was postponed. We consider this construction of the compact unsound.
The railroad company took its chances with the Government
in this particular. The latter might not deem it sound policy
or for the welfare of the Indians to extinguish their title, or
it might not procure their assent. Under neither contingency
would the company have the right to complain nor to set up
this non-performance as a efence to its own failure to build

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the road. Knowing the title under which the Indians held
this territory, the company should, when it contemplated the
construction of the road, have obtained some positive assur
ances from the Indians that they would permft the road to be
built. It seems that by treaties made in 1866 with the Seminoles, the Choctaws and Chickasaws, the Creeks, the Delawares
and the Cherokees, 14 Stat. 755-799, provision was made for
a right of way for certain railways from north to south, and
from east to west, through the Indian Territory, but the very
fact that these treaties made no provision for a grant of lands
to the railways through this Territory as appurtenant to their
line of road was notice to the companies that no such grant
was contemplated. Indeed, -these very treaties made additional provisions for the exercise of legislative power by the
several Indian nations, and contained additional guaranties
for their legislative independence and self-governmentguaranties quite inconsistent with a grant to the railway of
alternate sections of land forty miles in width, and the opening of the other alternate sections to purchase as public lands.
All of these treaties were entered into prior to the land grarpt
act of July 27, 1866, and both parties must have had them in
view at that time.
4. The defence that other reservations were made to these
Indians after this act was passed stands upon a somewhat
different basis. So far as these Indian reservations were in
the Indian Territory they are immaterial, since we have
already held that lands in that Territory did not pass, and it
could make no-difference whether they were reserved for one
tribe or another. Of 'the reservations in New Mexico and
Arizona most of them were made after July 4, 1878, the time
fixed for the completion of the road, and at a time when the
Government had a right to declare the grant forfeited. All
'these reservations, too, were made opposite portions of the
road which were actually built, and cannot be made available
as an excuse for not completing the other portions. None of
them seem to affect in any way the lands coterminous with
the unconstructed portion. There was no restriction upon the
right of the Government to dispose of public lands in any way

ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC RAILROAD v. MINGUS.

441

Opinion of the Court.

it saw fit prior to the filing of the map of definite location,

and if it assumed to dispose of lands within the grant, after
the rights of the railroad company had attached, such action
might be void, but it would be no answer to the obligation of
the company to complete its'road within the stipulated time.
Some of these reservations, too, were made in pursuance of
treaties made with the Indians prior to the land grant act, and
were apparently made in pursuance of a plan to confine the
Indians within designated boundaries of territories previously
occupied by them. These reservations did not seem to have
seriously interfered with the company in the prosecution of its
work, or, with the exception of those in the Indian Territory,
to have been seriously insisted upon as an answer to the proposed forfeiture of its land grant.
5. It is finally contended that the Government failed to fulfil its obligation to survey the lands, and that this was a condition precedent to its right to declare a forfeitdre. This
obligation is contained in the sLxth section in the following
language "That the President of the United States shall
cause the lands to be surveyed for forty miles in 'width on
both sides of the entire line of said road, after the general
route shall be fixed, and as fast as may be required by the
construction of said railroad." Evidently the failure to do
this (lid not prevent the company from realizing the full value
of the land granted by mortgaging the road, and it is open to
doubt whether it could, under any circumstances, be insisted
upon as a defence to the forfeiture. It is true that the railroad company offered to furnish the money for such surveys,
and that the United States refused to accept it, but such offer
was not made until 1881, three years after the time stipulated
for the completion of the road, and at a time when the Government had a right to treat the land .grant as forfeited,
although the act of forfeiture was not passed for five years
thereafter.
Upon the whole it does not seem to us that Congress exceeded its powers in forfeiting this grant. The plaintiff coinpany seems to have undertaken its great enterprise in building
a transcontinental railroad without adequate appreciatmon of

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

the difficulties to be surmounted; which finally caused a total
suspension of its work, and, when in 1880, after the panic of
1873 had spent its force, it resumed operations, the time had
already expired for the completion of the road, and it was
only by the inaction or indulgence of Congress that it was
permitted to proceed. So far as the road was built and
accepted by the Government after that time, it was probably
entitled to receive its appropriate land grant, but this was
rather a matter of. favor than of strict right. During this
fon& period, from 1871 to 1880, it should, under its charter,
have constructed at least fifty miles per year, and. should have
completed the whole road by July 1, 18'18. But it did nothing. After this long inaction of nine years and its practical
abandonment of the work, the company was not in a position
to demand of the Government a strict and literal performance
of its obligations when it had so completely failed to meet its
own. While the reservation of some of these lands for the
benefit of the Indian tribes might not have been consistent
with its obligations to extinguish Indian titles, if the company
had been prosecuting its work according to its contract, we
do not think that it is entitled to complain that the Government did not deal with it precisely as if it lived up to its
undertaking.
The judgmefft of th,-court below must, therefore, be
.4firrned.
ME. JusTicE GRAY was not present at the argument and

took no part in the decision of this case.

