OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Syllabus.

Railway v Duggan, 109 Illinois, 537, Vogel v Pek e, 157 Illinois, 339, Dow v Besdelman, 49 Arkansas, 455, Perkns v
S. Lous &c. Railway, 103 Missouri, 52, Burlington &c. Railway v Dey, 82 Iowa, 312, 340 lfortman v Elenschrmzdt, 12
Montana, 316, Gu~f, Colorado & Santa .F Railroadv Ellis,
87 Texas, 19, Cameron v Cl/wago &e.Railway, 63 Minn. 384.
It is to be regretted that so important a precedent, as this
case may afford, for interference by the national judiciary with
the legislation of the several States on little questions of costs,
should be established upon argument exv arte in behalf of the
railroad corporation, without any argument for the original
plaintiff. But it is hardly surprising that the owner of a
claim for fifty dollars only, having been compelled to follow
up, through all the courts of the State, the contest over this
ten" dollar fee, should at last have become discouraged, and
unwilling to undergo the expense of employing counsel to
maintain his rights before this court.

CLARKE v. MoDADE.1
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO,
No. 158.

CALIFORNIA.

Submitted January 13, 1897.-Decided January 25, 1897.

A general statement that the decision of a state court is against the consti"tutional rights of the objecting party, or against the Fourteenth Amendment, or that it is without due process of law,- particularly when these
objections appear only in specifications of error, so called, will not raise
a Federal question, even where the judgment is a final one within Rev.
Stat. § 709.

In these cases there was no final judgment, such as is provided for in Rev.
Stat. § 709, and there does not appear to have arisen any Federal question whatever.
I With this case were submitted Nd. 159, Clarke v. McDade, No. 165, Clarke
v. McDade, No. 160, Clarke v.Mott, and No. 161, Clarke v. Mott, all error
to the Superior Court of the city and county of San Francisco. The opinion of this court is entitled in all the cases.

CLARKE v. AMcDADE.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.r
A. C. Searle, .for plaintiff in error, submitted on his
brief, on which were .3iiss Clara S. .Foltz and the plaintiff
in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MNR. JUSTIOE PEcKHA3i

delivered the opinion of the court.

The records in the above numbers, 158 and 159, relate to
proceedings in habeas coi'pu&. Those records are printed.
Numbers 161 and 165 also relate to proceedings in habeas
corpus. The records in those cases are not printed. Number 160 relates to a writ of error in what is termed in the
record "am.. action."
All the records now before us, both printed and unprinted,
are such a mass of confusion as to render it difficult to determine what has been done in the court below The records
relating to the proceedings taken upon habeas co7pus show
applications for that writ to various judges of the Superior
Court of the city and county of San Francisco, State of California. From a perusal of the series of papers variously
denominated orders, objections, demurrers, motions to vacate,
answers, specifications of errors and petitions for reversal,
which are mixed up in inextricable confusion, we are able
to gather that the plaintiff in error, Clarke, was proceeded
against in the Superior Court of San Francisco as an alleged
insolvent, and that such court after a hearing adjudged that
he was insolvent, that he appealed from the adjudication and
his appeal was heard in the Supreme Court of California,
which court affirmed the adjudication and remitted the record
to the Superior Court of San Francisco. These facts are discovered from the perusal of a paper appearing to be an order
signed by one of the judges of the Superior Court, which
shows that there had been an appeal, and that the remittitur
had come down to that court affirming its judgment adjudging Clarke an insolvent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

The order containing such recitals then directs the insolvent to file an inventory of his property, and it is signed by
-one of the judges of the court. An appeal was taken from
the order, but no disposition of it appears to have been mide,
so far as the record shows. He failed to obey the order by
filing the inventory as directed, and an order to show cause
why he should not be punished for contempt having been
made, he appeared and offered various objections to such
adjudication. He was finally adjudged guilty of the contempt charged, and was committed to the jail in San Francisco until he should obey the order of the court and file an
inventory as directed. After his commitment to the jail he
commenced a series of proceedings by habeas COeeU to obtain

his release. It is the decision of the judge rendered in each
proceeding of which he complains. He applied to one judge
of the Superior Court after another for the writ which was
granted him, and when the writ was served and the petitioner produced in obedience to the writ, after a hearing, the
writ was discharged and the petitioner was remanded by the
judge who granted the writ. This was repeated three or four
times before different judges with the same result. He also
applied to Judge Morrow, United States District Judge for a
writ of habeas cor2pus, and that writ was applied for -after he
had applied to the state judge for the same kind of a writ
which had been allowed, but before a decision was given by
the state judge in that particular proceeding, and upon a
hearing before the state judge upon the return of the writ
sued out by himself, he objected that the judge had no right
to hear the case, as he had applied to a United States District
Judge for a writ of habeas comTus, and that under the provisions
of Rev Stat. §§ 763, 766, there was no power in the state
judge to proceed with the hearing upon a return of the writ.
It does not appear what (if any) action was taken by the
Federal judge on the application for the habeas corpus, and it
is upon the decisions made by the state judges on these various
applications for writs of habeas corpus that the questions arise
which plaintiff in error claims that this court has the jurisdiction to decide.

CLARKE v. McDADE.
Opinion of the Court.

All his objections to the proceedings are to be found in documents set forth in the records signed by himself, and which
he describes as specifications of error and prayers for reversal.
In these specifications he sets up numerous objections to the
order adjudging him an insolvent and to the order adjudging
him in conjempt, and to the alleged refusal of the various
judges to -admit -him to bail pending an examination of his
case under the writs issued. What these various decisions
were can only be determined from these specifications of error
and other descriptions and allegations contained in affidavits
and alleged answers to petitions signed by the plaintiff in
error.
He objects that the order adjudging him an insolvent, as
well as various of the other orders made by the court, were
not signed by the clerk and sealed with the seal of the court
assuming to grant them, that they were not served by the
sheriff, that he was denied a trial by jury upon the question
of insolvency and upon the question of contempt, thathe was
denied bail, and, generally, that the Fourteenth Amendment
was violated in his person, and that all of the various orders
were made in violation of the Revised Statutes, § 1979, 763,
766.
There is not one judgment of any court to be found in the.
record. There is a statement in each of the records relating
to the habeas corpus proceedings following the writ and return
thereto, as follows: "Court order, October 26, 1893. Writ dismissed, prisoner remanded. Register 2 of Departments 1 to
10, page 249."
In'one of the records four petitions for writs of habeas cor.pw are contained one after the other, and no action shown in
regard to any petition excepting at the end of the fourth.
there is a statement similar to that which is above set forth
as to the dismissal of the writ.
There is no record of any appeal being taken to any state
appellate tribunal or of any review being had or attempted of
the various so called colirt orders remanding the prisoner after
a hearing upon the returns to the yarious writs, but the writs
of error from this court are directed to the judges of the Sfi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Opinion of the Court.

perior Court of the city and county of San Francisco, and they
have been allowed by one of the jtidges of that court.
The fatal objection appears in each case that the so called
court-orders made upon the returns to the several writs of
kabeas cop~uq, which were granted by a judge and returnable
before him, do not constitute that final judgment or decree in
a suit in the highest court of a State in which a decision in
the suit could be had which may be reviewed on writ of error
from this court under section 709' of the Revised Statutes of
the United States. If these various orders did constitute such
a final judgment, it does not appear in the record that any
question arose in such a manner as would give this court jurisdiction to review the same under the above named section.
A general statement that the decision of a court is against
the constitutional rights of the objecting party or against the
Fourteenth Amendment, or that it is without due process of
law, partibularly when these objections appear only in specifications of error, so called, will not raise a Federal question-even
where the judgment is a final one within, the section of the Revised Statutes above mentioned. There must be at least some
color of a Feaeral question. Hamblin v TFestern Land Co.,
147 U. S. 531.
In No. 160 of the above records, entitled C. IF 3'Iott and
others v. Aifoed Clarke, in the Superior Court of the city and
county of San Francisco, Department 10, the record opens
with what-is termed "specifications of error and prayer for
reversal," in which it is stated that the action was commenced
on the. 2d of October, 1891, by filing a petition in the court,
and that on the same day a mutilated portion of an attachment bond was filed in the same case, but that the bond was
never approved by the judge, and that on the 6th of October,
1891, the respondent, Alfred Clarke, filed and served an objection to the bond, which objection is set forth. Then it is
stated that no other bond was ever filed. An order to show
cause then follows, ordering Clarke to show cause why he
should not be adjudged an insolvent debtor, and restraining
his transfer of any property in the meantime. This order is
signed by one of the judges of the Superior Court. It would

CLARKE v. McDADE.
Opinion of the Court.

appear that the order was served on the respondent personally

and after such service it was filed, and was not served upon
hin after filing. The respondent thereafter objected to the
jurisdiction of the court on the ground of absence of summons.

The objection was overruled, subsequent proceedings were had,
and on May 18, 1892,the respondent was adjadged an insolvent.

The respondent claims that in the above proceedings he has
been deprived of liberty and property without due process of
law, and denied by the State the equal protection of the laws.
He specifies the errors on which he will rely
"(1) That the judgment complained of is null and void for
want of jurisdiction and the court never obtained jurisdiction
of hii person, and therefore he has not been accorded due
process of law
"(2) That said judgment is made in violation of the fourteenth article, United States Constitution, and section 1979 of
Revised Statutes of United States.
"Wherefore respondent prays that the said judgment may
be reversed.
"This paper is made and filed nunc pro tunc as of May 10,
1894, by leave of court for good cause shown.

"(Signed)

ALFRED CLARKE,

"Respondent and Plaintiff in Error."
It is then stated that the foregoing bill of exceptions is allowed and authenticated as and for the transcript on writ of
error from the United States Supreme Court to the Superior
Court as provided by law It is signed by a judge of the Superior Court. Upon such a record a writ of error is allowed,
and the citation and return of the judges of the foregoing
matters follows.
This is everything that is in the record. No pleadings, no
judgment other than an allegation in what is called a bill of
exceptions of an adjudication in insolvency, and the recital in
such bill, of objections taken of the character above set forth,
and from this proceedihig in insolvency before one of the
judges of the Superior Court of San Francisco the plaintiff in
error sues out a writ of error from this court and claims the

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

right to review the proceedings (whatever they were) of the
Superior Court of San Francisco County The same objection
(among others) applies to this that we have stated in regard to
the other records.
There is no final judgment, such as is provided for in section 709 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and
there does not appear to have arisen any Federal question
whatever.
We have carefully looked through these entire records, notwithstanding the mass of -confusion which appears in all of
them. We find nothing which shows that we have jurisdiction in the cases, and for these reasons the various writs of
error must be
.DiMm88ed.

UNITED STATES v. BARNETTE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
No. 825. Submitted December 21, 196. -Decided January 25, 18T.

A lieutenant in the Navy, assigned by order of the Secretary of the Navy
to duty as executive officer of a vessel of the United States, furnished
by the Secretary of the Navy to the State of New York as a school ship,
is entitled to sea pay, as well while tile vessel is attached to a wharf in
the harbor of New York, as whire she is on a cruise, and although this
service is called, in the Secretary's order for his detail, "employment
on shore duty," and notwithstanding he is receiving pay from the State
as instructor in its nautical school upon the vessel.

THIS was a claim by a lieutenant in the Navy of the United
States for sea pay while on board the St. Mary's in the harbor
of New York. The facts found by the Court of Claims were
in substance as follows
The St. Mary's was a sailing vessel owned, and employed
by the United States, and had been furnished for educational
purposes by the Secretary of the Navy, upon the application
of the Governor of the State of New York, under the act
of Congress of June 20, 1871, c. 339, which is copied in the

