OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

of the tax that in its view might legally be exacted as a
restilt of the assessment in question. State Railroad Tax
Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 614-615. Thompson v. Allen County,
115 U. S. 550. Cf. Central Kentucky Gas Co. v. Railroad
Comm'n, 290 U. S. 264, 271, et seq. If that assessment
were illegal, the State, notwithstanding any adjudication
against its validity as repugnant to the Federal Constitution, should have been left free again to value the property. Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269, 293. And see
Frenchv. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 344.
The district court may cause to be corrected the error in
calculation referred to in marginal note 2.*
Decree reversed.
CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v.
SCHNADER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 30. Argued Ocober 15, 1934.--Decided November 5, 1934.
1. The power-to regulate the transmission, administration and distribution of tangible personal property rests exclusively in the State in
which the property has an actual situs, regardless of the domicile of
the owner. P. 118.
2. A resident of New York owning paintings there lent them for exhibition in Pennsylvania where they remained for a number of years,
until his death. During the interval they were subject to be returned at any time upon his request, but it did not appear that he
ever intended to have them returned, and he was willing to sell
them to any purchaser who would donate them to the museum in
Pennsylvania or any similar institution. Held: That the paintings
acquired a situs in. Pennsylvania and their transfer by law was consequently subject to the Pennsylvania inheritance tax. P. 119.
Affirmed.
The final sentence was added by order of December 3, 1934.RzPoRMr.
*

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
112

Argument for Appellant.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing a bill to enjoin the assessment and collection of an inheritance tax. For an earlier phase of the
case see 291 U. S. 24.
APPEAL

Mr. Henry S. Drinker,Jr., with whom Messrs. Leslie M.
Swope, H. Gordon McCouch, and Wolcott P. Robbins
were on the brief, for appellant.
The transmission from the dead to the living of a particular thing is an event which can take place in and be made
the basis of inheritance tax by but one State.
The personal property of Mr. Clarke, including the
paintings in question, passed to the legatees named in his
will by virtue of the laws of New York and not of Pennsylvania. First NationalBank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, 327,
329.
The will was admitted to probate in New York, the
State of Mr. 'Clarke's domicile. It derived all its authenticity as a will and all its capacity to transmit property, from the judicial proceeding in New York. Pennsylvania added nothing to the validity of the will or probate,. Beaumont's Estate, 216 Pa. 350, 354; Dammert v.
Osborn, 140 N. Y. 30, 39; Jones v. Habersham, 107 U. S.
174, 179.
"The validity and effect of a will of movables are determinedby the law of the State in which the deceased died
domiciled." § 328, Am. L., Inst., Restatement of Conflict
of Laws.
Ancillary administration was not actually raised in
Pennsylvania and, even if it could have been insisted
upon for the benefit of local creditors, was no more than
could be required had the property in question remained
in Pennsylvania for but a single day, or had the res been
stock of a Pennsylvania corporation, which under the decisions would clearly not have been subject to inheritance

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellant.

293 U. S.

tax, in spite of the fact that in the case of stock something
would have to be done in Pennsylvania, subject to Pennsylvania law, to complete the transfer.
The devolution by will or by intestacy of real property
has, on the contrary, always been governed not by the
law of the owner's domicile, but by that of the situs of the
property. The State, being vitally interested, as a matter
of essential public policy, in the personnel of the owners
of its soil, has consistently refused to recognize any law
other than its own as governing the right to transmit real
property, and this Court has recognized this in sustaining
the right. of the State of the situs of realty to impose inheritance tax on the real estate of a foreign decedent and
in denying that right to the State of the owner's domicile.
" Under the decisions of this Court, the situs for inheritance taxation was New York and not Pennsylvania.
Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473; Farmers Loan &
Trust Co. v. Minnesta, 280 U. S. 204; First National
Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312.
Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, is to be distinguished. It did not there appear that the coin and.bank
notes had ever been in Connecticut or that they were ever
to be taken or kept or used by the decedent there. From
the fact that they were kept in the safe deposit box in New
York, it would appear that they were for use in connection
with the decedent's New York business. This Court considered that this cash had been so definitely fixed and
separhted in its actual situs from the person of the owner
that it belonged permanently in New York, as did the
paintings and furniture in the Frick case.
Johnson Oil Refining Co. v. Oklahoma, 290 U. S. 1584
involved the habitual employment of property away frornt
the domicile.
Assuming that, since the decision in the Maine case,
tangible personalty, not part of an established local busi-

CITY BANK CO. v. StHNADER.,
112

Counsel for Parties.

ness or, as in the Frick case, intimately connected with
real estate, can acquire a situs away from the owner's
domicile sufficient to support inheritance taxation by the
State of the situs, still the Clarke pictures would fall
far short either of the test of the habitual employment
of property within, the foreign Stafe, or that of the place
where the property was kept and used.
Cf. Hays v. Pacific Mail S. S. Co., 17 How. 596; Union
Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Delaware, L. & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341,
from which it is clear that, even in cases involving property taxes, a State other than that of the owner's domicile
can constitutionally levy the tax only on property permanently located within its borders and is powerless to tax
personalty which the owner has taken or sent there but
temporarily and with the intentio1.of bringing it back
home When the object for which it was sent has been
accomplished. A fortiori such other State is powerless to
impose an inheritance tax on such property merely because its owner happens to die during the interim.
The presumption would be against a change in situs, on
the analogy of those cases which hold that an original
domicile is not lost until a new legal residence is clearly
acquired. New York Central R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S.
584; Sun Printing & Publishing Assn. v. Edwards, 194
U. S. 377, 383.
Gromer v. Standard Dredging Co., 224 U. S. 362, distinguished.
Mr. Win. A. Schnader, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. HarrisC. Arnold, Deputy Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellees.
By leave of Court, Mr. Seth T. Cole filed a brief on
behalf of the Tax Commission of New York, as amicus
curiae.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

293 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Pennsylvania inheritance tax law imposes a tax
upon the transfer by will or intestate laws of personal
property within the Commonwealth when the decedent
is a nonresident at the time of his death.* Thomas B.
Clarke, a resident of New York, loaned paintings to a
museum in Pennsylvania and died estate while they were
on exhibition there. His will was admitted to probate in
New York, and letters testamentary issued to appellant
to which, as trustee, the residuary clause transferred the
pictures. The appellees, acting respectively as attorney
general and secretary. of revenue of Pennsylvania, proceeded to appraise and assess the pictures for the purpose
of collecting the inheritance tadk.
Appellant, maintainiig that when the owner died the
paintings had no actual situs within Pennsylvania because only temporarily there, brought this suit to enjoin
enforcement on the ground that, if the statute be construed to tax the transfer by the death of the nonresident
owner, it is repugnant to the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. As the transfer cannot be subjected to taxes imposed by more than one state (Frick v.
Section 1 of the Act of June 20, 1919, P. L. 521, 72 P. S. § 2301,
as last amended by the Act of June 22, 1931, P. L. 690, provides in
part as follows'

"Section 1. Be it enacted, etc., That a tax shall be, and is hereby,
imposed upon the transfer of any property, real or personal, or of any

interest therein or income therefrom in trust or otherwise, to persons
or corporations in the following cases:
"(b) When the transfer ii by will or intestate laws of real property within this Commonwealth, or of goods, wares, or merchandise
within this Commonwealth, or of shares of stock of corporations of
this Commonwealth or of national banking associations located in this
Commonwealth, and the decedent was a nonresident of the Commonwealth at the time of his death."

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
112

117

Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania, 268 :U. S. 473, 488-492. Safe Deposit &
T. Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83, 93. Farmers Loan & T.
Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, 210. First National
'Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, 326-327.) appellant framed
its complaint to call for a decision whether Pennsylvania
or New York is entitled to the tax. The New York Tax
Commission as amicus curiae, filed. briefs below and also
in this court supporting the claim that the transfer is
subject to the New York tax.
The district court, consisting of three judges, § 266,
Jud. Code, dismissed the: suit on the ground that appellint had an adequate remedy at law. This court reversed
and remanded the tase with instructions to reinstate the
bill and proceed to a hearing upon the merits. City Bank
Farmers Trust Co. v. Schnader, 291 U. S. 24. Then the
case was submitted and tried on the facts alleged in the
bill and answer and additional 'ones that were stipulated
by the parties. Upon the circumstances detailed in its
findings the court concluded that 79 portraits: belonging
to Clarke that were included in the collection on exhibition in the Pennsylvania museum at the time of his death
ten: had . an- atual situs in that State; and held the
transfer subject to the Pennsylvania inheritance tax.
The material substance of the findings follows:
In March, 1928, Clarke at the request of the director
of :the Pennsylvania museum, loaned to it the 79 pictures,
together with 85 others owned by a corporation of which
henwas sole stockholder. At the time of the loan, they
were, and long had been, kept in New York City. Five
were at his residence, ten were on exhibition, and the remaining 64 were in storage. When the pictures were sent
to Pennsylvania, Clarke surrendered his lease for the
storage space and thereafter did nothing to secure another place in which to put them. But suitable space
was always readily available in New York. •

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

The arrangement with the museum was oral; no consideration was to be paid, and it was understood that at any
time on Clarke's request the pictures would be returned
to him. In the spring of 1929, Clarke wrote the director,
at the latter's solicitation, that he would sell the entire
collection at a stated price to anyone who would present
it to the museum, it being understood that he would allow
the pictures to remain at the museum for a reasonable
time for the director to find such a donor. In May, 1930,
he 'stated that this arrangement would terminate June 17,
1930. But at the director's request he permitted the pictures to remain, upon the understanding that, whenever
he so requested, they would be returned to him in New
York. Thereafter, he was wling to sell the collection
'as a whole for presentation to the Pennsylvania museum
or to a substantially similar institution.
Clarke made no definite plans or request for the return
to New. York of the paintings. None was ever removed
from the museum except four which, at his request, were
sent to Virginia in April, 1929, for exhibition, and were
returned in May. When he died, January 18, 1931, all
the paintings were at.the museum.
The museum was-not conducted for profit. It secured
through voluntary loans from nonresidents a substantial
portion of the works of art which it displayed. None of
these was regarded or intended as a permanent loan. It
is customary for public museums to secure pictures for;
exhibition in this manner. The period elapsing until
Clarke's death was shorter than the usual period of such
loans.
The power to regulafe the transmission, administratiop
and distribution of tangible personal property rests exclusively in the State in which the property has an actual
situs, regardless of the domicile of the owner. If at the
time of his death the actual situs of Clarke's pictures was
in Pennsylvania, they were wholly under the jurisdiction

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
112

Opinion of the Court.

of that State. The fact that being a resident of New
York he, by will probated in that State, disposed of the
pictures detracted nothing from the exclusive jurisdiction
of Pennsylvania to tax the transfer effected by his death.
New York laws had no bearing other than that attributable to their implied adoption by Pennsylvania. As-suming actual situs in Pennsylvania, the paintings there
on exhibition when the owner died are not .to be distinguished, so far as concerns the imposition of the inheritance tax, from land located within that State. Frick v.
Pennsylvania. supra, 489-493.
We regard as unimportant and negligible Clarke's suggestions that the pictures be returned, because on each
.occasion he acceded to opposing suggestions of the director and continued his consent that they remain temporarily at the museum subject to his orders. Mere
floating intention that sometime in. the future the pictures
would be returned to New York was not sufficient to retain them within the jurisdiction of that State and to
keep them without the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania. Cf.
Story, Conflict of Laws, 8th ed., § 46. And obviously
without weight are the facts that Clarke made the loan
without pay, gave up the warehouse in which he had kept
some of the pictures, and died without providing a place
for them in New York.
The significant features of the transaction are these:
Prior to the loan the pictures that went' to make up
the collection had an actual situs in New York. The loan'
was not made for a short and definite period and it was
subject to the right of the owner to.have the pictures returned to New York at any time. He did not call for
their return but with his consent they were kept in Pennsylvania and there exhibited until he died two years and
ten months after the loan. With-the exception of the four
pictures temporarily sent to Virginia, none was taken
from Pennsylvania. For-nearly two years next preced-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

ing his death Clarke was willing-indeed, he authorized
the director-to sell the collection to anyone who would
buy at the specified price and donate them to the, Pennsylvania museum. And during the last six months of his
life he was willing to sell to any purchaser that would
give them to any institution similai-to the Pennsylvania
museum. It does not appear that Clarke ever intended
to have the pictures returned to New York at any definite
date or upon the happening of any event. or at all.
Until his death he permitted the pictures to 'be kept and
used in the Pennsylvania museum merely subject to his
right at any time to order them taken to New York or
elsewhere.
In respect of situs for taxation, the collection of portraits .is quite unlike vessels and railway rolling stock.
that in *fulflling the purpose for. which they are created
move from place to place and into different States. Cf.
Hays v. Pacific.Mail Steamship Co., 17 How. 596, 599.
Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, 23.
Johnson Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 290 U. S. 1581 161. Before
the loan was made the pictures had an actual situs in
New York, so as to be viithin the taxing power of that'
State, though it cannot be said that they were there permanently located in the sense of that phrase when used
in respect of land, buildings or other items of fixed real
property. The location of the portraits in Pennsylvania
was not merely transient, transitory or temporary but
it was fixed in an established abiding place in which they
remained for a long time. Undoubtedly, they becamesubject to the taxing power of the State. Cf. Brown v.
Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 632-633. Pittsburg& Southern
Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577, 589. Kelley v. Rhoads,
188 U. S. 1, 7' General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211,
230. By sending them into Pennsylvania and by his
omission to have them returned to New York, and his
lack of definite intention ever so to do, Clarke failed to

HELVERING v.' MORGAN'S, INC.
112

121

Syllabus.

maintain an actual situs in New York and created one for
them in Pennsylvania. The principle applied in Frick V.
Pennsylvania, supra, 490-494, and in Blodgett v. Silber.
man, 277 U. S. 1, 18, governs this case.
Affirmed.
HELVERING, -COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. MORGAN'S, INC. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 12.

Argued October 11, 12, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. Where a corporation, without change of its'accounting year, filed
a separate return for he part of the year 1925 which preceded its
affiliation with. another corporation, and filed a consolidated
return for the remainder of. the year, the periods covered by. the
two returns are not separate " taxable years" but are each a part
of the taxable. year as previously constituted, within the meaning
of § 206 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1926, which permits a taxpayer
to carry over and to deduct during the next two "taxable years"
a net loss sustained "for any taxable year." P. 124 et seq.
2. Section 200 (a) of the same. Act, in providing that "the term
'taxable year' includes, in the case of a fractional part of a
year, the period for which such return is made," does not compel
a different result. Pp. 124-126.
3. While the term "includes " may sometimes be taken as synonymous with " means," it may be used also as the equivalent of "comTherefore, under § 200 (a), the phrase
prehends" or "embraces."
"taxable year" may, where the context requires it, be taken to
embrace all fractional parts of the taxable year; thus, "loss sustained for any taxable year," which § 206 permits to be carried
forward and deducted from gross income for two successive years,
includes a loss shown in a fractional part of the first preceding
taxable year for which separate returns are filed. Pp. 124-126.
4. In view of tle extent to 'which the practice of fixing the tax with
reference to the twelve months" accounting periods of the taxpayer
has been recognized and carried into .the structure of the revenue
acts, only clear and compelling language added to § 200 (a) to define the phrase "taxable year" would justify application of that
phrase in the remedial § 206 to periods of less than twelve months,

