PFLUEGER v. SHERMAN.
52

55

Syllabus.

two grounds the judgment was based, and the ground
independent of a federal questiop is sufficient in itself to
sustain it, this Court will not take jurisdiction. Allen v.
Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149, 154, 155; Johnson v. Risk,
supra; Wood Mowing & Reaping Machine Co. v. Skinner,
supra; Consolidated Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk & Ocean
View Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 596, 590; Cuyahoga River Power
Co. v. Northern Realty Co., 244 U. S. 300, 302, 304.
Petitioners have made no effort to obtain an amendment by the Court of Appeals of its remittitur, and
although, on the oral argument in this Court,. attention
was directed to the practice in New York to entertain, in
proper :cases, an application for such an amendment in
order to show appropriately the basis of the determination
of the state court, no request was made for a continuance
to permit such an application.
As the record fails to show jurisdiction in this Court,
the writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.
Dismissed.

PFLUEGER ET AL. V. SHERMAN ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No.. 21.

Argued October 15, 16, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. A, certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals must submit only
questions of law, not mixed questions of law and fact, and not such
as involve or imply conclusions or judgment by the Court upon the
effect of facts adduced in the cause; and they must be distinct and

definite. P. 57.
2. The Court can not by a certificate be called upon to answer questions of objectionable generality, or to review proceedings, facts and
circumstances for the purpose of deciding a variety of preliminary
questions in order to reach and decide an ultimate question submitted. Rule 37. P. 58.

Dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Per Curiam.
CERTIFICATE

293 U. S.

from the Circuit Court of Appeals, Ninth

Circuit, for advice respecting its jurisdiction over an appeal from the United States District Court for Hawaii,
taken by some original plaintiffs, th6 others noi joining.
Mr. John Francis Neylan, with %hom Mr. Bartley C.
Crum was on the brief, for,Pflueger et al.
Mr. W. H. Lawrence, with whom Messrs. Alfred Sutro,
Eugene M. Prince, and W. L. Stanley were on the brief,
for Sherman et al.
PER CURIAM.

After an extended recital of the allegations of the bill
of complaint herein (a copy' of which, consisting of
seventythree printed pages, is attached to the certificate) with the statement that it is not clear to the court
whether this is a stockholders' suit or one on behalf of
the individual complainants, and after a further recital
of proceedings in the cause, of the decree rendered in the
District Court, and of certain document-, filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals after a motion to dismiss an ap-"
peal from that decree, the Circuit Court of Appeals has
certified to this Court the following question:
"Has the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Judicial Circuit jurisdiction to hear and determine the -questions of law and fact involved in said
decree of said 'United States District Court for the Territory of Hawaii,. from which decree said appeal was'
prosecuted and is now pending?
"[The answer to the foregoing question will, we assume, necessarily involve the validity and effect of the
above so called 'appearances and waivers' filed by certain of the complainants in this court: the question of
whether or 'not complainants J. D. Isenberg, Mrs. Paul
Tsenberg, R. M. Isenberg, Julia Barckhausen Reschke,

PFLUEGER v. SHERMAN.
55

Per Curiam.

Paula Volkmann, Clara. Sielcken Schwarz, J. F. Humburg, August Humburg, B. von Damm, F. W. Klebahn,
Herman P. F. Schultze, Julie Rudolphi, formerly Julie
Hegeler, and Marie Feine, formerly Marie Hackfeld,
whose counsel withdrew before the entry of the joint
decree against them, and who have not appealed or
entered their appearance in this court, are necessary parties, and whether or not the Supreme Court will look
beyond the decree to determine whether the suit is a
stockholders' suit, and if it is, whether three of the stockholders of the dissolved corporation (appellants) may appeal from the decree without a summons and severance
in the lower court.]"
If the decree, set forth in the certificate, be deemed to
be joint, and the persons above named, in the absence of
summons and severance, to be necessary parties to the
appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals would be without
jurisdiction. In ihat aspect, there would be no occasion
for the submission of the question. HartfordAccident &
Indemnity Co. v. Bunn, 285 U. S. 169', 178, 182; Elliot v.
Lombard, 292 U. S. 139, 141, 142.
The question has been certified apparently in order to
obtain the decision of several u'nderlying questions, and
in the view that the various proceedings, facts and circumstances detailed in the certificate must be examined
by this Court to the end that it may determine what effect
shall be given tocertain "appearances and waivers" filedin the Circuit Court of Appeals, and what effect shall be
giYen to a statement and withdrawal of counsel for certain parties before the entry of the decree against them
in the District Court, and that the Court may also determine the nature of the suit, and whether, in the light
of these determinations, summons and severance of those
not parties to the appeal were necessary.
The certificate fails to conform to the requirement that
questions submitted must be questions of law and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

mixed questions of law and fact, and not such as involve
or imply conclusions or judgment by the Court upon the
effect of facts adduced in the cause, and must be distinct
and definite. The Court cannot be called upon to answer questions of objectionable generality, or to review
proceedings, facts and circumstances for the purpose of
deciding a variety of preliminary questions in order to
reach and decide an ultimate question submitted. Rule
37. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co. vi Williams,
205 U. S. 444, 451-453; United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S.
55, 66; Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Co. v. Arctic Iron Co., 248
U. S. 178, 179; United States v. John Barth Co., 276 U.
S. 606; White v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367, 371; Wells v.
Commissioner, 286 U. S. 529. See, also, Dennistoun v.
Stewart, 18 How. 565, 568; CaliforniaPaving Co. v. Molitor, 113 U. S. 609, 616; Jewell v. Knight, 123 U. S.426,
432.
The certificate is
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. TROY.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF PENNSYIVANIA.

No. 25.

Argued October 16, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. That part of par. (b) of ยง 146 of the Revenue Act of 1928, which
provides that'any person who wilfully attempts to defeat a tax shall
be guilty of a felony, is applicable to an officer of a corporation who
made a false return on its behalf in a wilful attempt to defeat part,
of its tax, even though making a return for the corporation was no
part of his duty. P. 61.
2. The declaration of the'same section, par. (c), that the term "person," as used in the section, shall include any officer, etc., of a cor*

No.26.

United States v.Troy. Appeal from the District Court

of the United States for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. November 5, 1934. Judgment reversed, per stipulation of coensel to
abide the decision in No. 25.

