DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
15

21

Syllabus.

with the question which has been discussed in cases dealing with the effect of the taxation of gross receipts derived from interstate commerce.' Without going into
that question, it is sufficient again to point out that the
tax is not laid upon gross receipts but upon the "excess
of all bills and accounts receivable over bills and accounts
payable." The effect- upon interstate commerce, as in
other, instances of non-discriminatory property taxation,
is at most indirect and incidental. See United States
Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 329; Shaffer V.
Carter, 252 U. S. 37, 57.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
DETROIT TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, v. THE THOMAS

BARLUM

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

* No. 13. Argued October 12, 1934.--Decided November 5, 1934.
1. A court of admiralty has no jurisdiction of a -suit to foreclose a
mortgage on a ship, in the absence of an Act of Congress conferring
such jurisdiction. P. 32.
2. "Preferred mortgages" of ships under the Ship Mortgage Act of
1920 include deeds of trust securing bonds sold to the public and
under that statute are foreclosable exclusively in admiralty, with
priority of lien as: therein prescribed, if indorsement upon ship's
documents, recording, and other conditions expressed in the statute
have been fulfilled. P. 32.
'See Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U. S. 230; Philadelphia& Southern
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Galveston, H. & S. A.
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,
245 U. S. 292, 295; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S.
450, 453; New Jersey Telephone Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U. S. 338, 349.
* Together with No. 14, Detroit Trust Co., Trustee, v. The John J.
Barlum et al., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

22

)CTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

293 U. S.

3. The status of "preferred mortgages." does not depend upon application of the borrowed money to maritime uses. This condition is
not expressed in the Act and can not be implied. P. 37.
So held in view of the minute and explicit provisions of the Act;
its legislative history, showing that the objective was to foster our
merchant marine by making ship mortgages, including deeds of'
trust securing bonds, safe and attractive to investors; and the importance to this purpose of having the jurisdiction to foreclosein admiralty exclusively or in state courts exclusively-determinable
by precise statutory conditions rather than by extrinsic criteria
raising a host of questions as to the application of the proceeds of
loans.
4. Congress, under Art. III, § 2, and Art. I, § 8, par. 18 of the Constitution, has paramount power to determine the maritime law which
shall prevail throughout the country; but in so doing it is necessarily restricted to the sphere qf the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, the boundaries of Wvhich are determined by the
exercise of the judicial power.' P. 42.
5. In order to promote investment in shipping securities and thus to
advance the maritime interests of the United States, Congress has
power, by amendment of the maritime law, to regulate the priorities
of mortgage and other liens on ships and to provide jurisdiction in
admiralty for the enforcement of such mortgages. Bogart v. The
John Jay, 17 How. 399, considered. P. 48.
6. There is no ground for denying this power when the prodeeds of
the mortgage are used for other purposes than the direct benefit
of the vessel. P. 50..
68 F. (2d) 946, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

292 U. S. 619, to review the reversal, for

want of jurisdiction, of two decrees entered by the District Court, 56 F. (2d) 455? 2 F. Supp. 733, for the fore-

closure of mortgages on two ships.
Mr. Ray M. Stanley, with whom Messrs. Ellis H. Gidley, FerrisD. Stone, and Cleveland Thurber were on thq
brief, for pet,!ioner.
The Ship Mortgage Act . i logical development of the
national policy expressed in the Merchant Marine Act.
Sen. Rep., 66th Cong., No. 573.

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

23

Argument for Petitioner.

Under the construction given it by the court below, in
every suit in rem brought for the foreclosure of a preferred mortgage the first inquiry will necessarily be
whether or not the proceeds, beyond an inconsiderable

portion, were devoted to maritime uses. If not, did the
mortgagee have knowledge at the time the mortgage was
-given that the mortgagor intended to apply a substantial
part of the proceeds to non-maritime uses? If knowledge
or lack of knowledge is disputed, the court must retain

jurisdiction in the first instance solely for the purpose of
deciding that question of fact. If advance knowledge be
found, the court must orjer a dismissal for lack of jurisdiction.- The majority opinion further leaves it to the
discretion of individual judges to determine what part of
the proceeds may be devoted to non-maritime uses before
jurisdiction is destroyed. A mere statement demonstriates
the utter fallacy Of the reasoning, Jurisdiction may be
defeated only by destroying the preferred status of the
mortgage itself.
The language of the Act shows that there was no intention to impose any implied limitations on the use of
the proceeds.
The purpose of the implied grant of power to legislate
on the subject of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction was
to place the entire subject matter, both substantive law
and procedure, under federal control, because of its intimate relation to interstate and foreign commerce and to
navigation, and it may be added-to ships, the sole instruments of navigation. The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558,
577; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; Waring v. Clarke, 5 How.
441; Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, 215.
The power of Congress to alter, qualify, revise or supplement the general maritime law whenever experience
of changing conditions makes it desirable or necessary has

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

293 U. S.

been often declared and recently reaffirmed. Crowell v.
Benson, 285 U. S. 22; United States v. Flores, 289 U. S.
137.
Illustrations of the repeated exercise by Congress of its
power to make substantive changes in the law maritime
are found in the Judiciary Act of 1789, providing for seizure under the impost. navigation or trade laws; The Margaret, 9 Wheat. 421; in the Acts providing for limitation
of liability; The Main v. Williams, 152 U. S. 122; New
Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How.
344; Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96; in the Act
of June 23, 1910 creating an extension of maritime lien for
supplies furnished in the home port; Piedmont & G. C.
Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., 254 U. S. 1;. in the
Act of March 4, 1915, known as the Jones Act; Lindgren
v. United States, 281 U. S. 38; in the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act of March 4, 1927;
Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22.
In the absenee of action by Congress. this Court has the
power to modify the maritime law as experience or changing conditions may require, e. g., The Genesee Chief, 12
How. 443.
In the last analysis, the decision in the case of The
Genesee Chief, supra, was merely an interpretation of the
Constitution, not only in the light of changing conditions
and the lessons of experience, but as well because of factors which were not considered when the case of The
Thomas Jefferson was decided.
'This power of the Court to overrule prior decisions hasbeen frequently exercised (see cases Note 2, dissenting
opinion of Brandeis. J.. in Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas
Co., 285 U. S. 393, 407, 408). See Funk v. Uhited States.
290 U. S. 371, wherein an ancient rule of the common law
was abrogated-this though there is no national common
law. The only apparent limitation on the power of the

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

25

Argument for Respondents

Court in this regard is the doctrine of stare decisis, which
can have no application in the present case.
What was said in Bogart v. The John Jay, 17 How. 399,
did not mark the boundary for all time beyond which
neither Court nor Congress may go. Cf. The Oconee, 280
Fed. 927; The Nanking, 292 Fed. 642; The Lincoln Land,
295 Fed. 358.
Cases where the validity of the Ship Mortgage Act was
assumed are: The Egeria, 294 Fed. 791; The Northern
Star, 7 F. (2d) 505; National Bank v. Enterprise Marine
Dock Co., 43 F. (2d) 547; Consumer's Co. v. Goodrich
Transit Co., 53 F. (2d) 97,2, cert. den., 286 UT. S. 548; The
Owego,;292 Fed. 403; The Northern No. 41, 297 Fed. 343;
The Moshulu, 298 Fed. 348; The Henry W. Breyer, 17 F.
(2d) 423; The Red Lion, 22 F. (2d) 329. Also see Morse
Drydock & Repair Co. v. The Northern Star, 271 U S.
552, and United States v. Flores,289 U. S. 137.
The opinion in Bogart v. The John Jay; supra, shows
that the Court, as then constituted, had no doubt of the
power of Congress to so extend the jurisdiction," a had
been done in England. See Panama R. Co. v. Johnson,
264 U. S. 375, 386.
Mr. George E. Brand, with whom Mr. Thomas C. Burke
was on the brief, for respondents.
Prior to the Ship Mortgage Act, it was settled law that
a ship mortgage securing a personal loan to the shipowner
was not, ex proprio vigore, foreclosable in admiralty-not
because the Congress had not conferred such jurisdiction,
but because, under the Constitution as interpreted by this
Court, neither the loan, the primary contract, nor the
iuortgage, the incident.thereof, was a maritime contract.
I ne Congress has no power to extend original admiralty
jurisdiction to a non-maritime contract.
That this Court was fully conscious of the desirability
of making federal admiralty jurisdiction as comprehen-

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

sive as the needs of navigation, is attested by New Jersey
Steam Navigation Co. 'v. Merchants Bank of Boston, 6
How. 344, and by The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, holding that the admiralty jurisdiction was not limited to tide
waters. Certainly this Court accorded the constitutional
provisions a broad, rather than a restricted interpretation,
and in view of such a tendency this Court's refusal to
uphold jurisdiction over ship mortgages, in Bogart v. The
John Jay, 17 How.: 399, is of great significance. To
quote from that case:
"This is not so, because such a jurisdiction had been
denied by the jealousy of the courts of the common law.
Its foundation is, that the mere mortgage of a ship, other
than that of an h:pothecated bottomry, is a contract
without any of the characteristics or attendants of a maritime loan, and is entered into by the parties to it, without
reference to navigation or perils of the sea. Such a
mortgage has nothing in it analogous to those contracts
which are the subjects of admiralty jurisdiction. In such
a case, the ship is the object for the accomplishment of
the contract, without any reference to the use of her for
such a purpose. There qannot be, then, anything maritime in it. A failure to perform such a contract cannot
make it maritime."
There was no dissent from this opinion and seven of the
Justices who participated.in the decision of The Geneee
Chief, supra, were still members of this Court. The rule
has been consistently followed: Schuchardt v. The Angelique, 19 How. 239; People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How.'
393; Grant Smith-Porter Co. v. Rohda, 257 U. S. 469$
Thames Topboat Co. v. The Francis McDonald, 254
U. S. 242; The Lvttawanqa, 21 Wall. 558; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1;' The Freightsof the Kate, 63 Fed. 707.
The bonds are the primary obligations to which the
mortgages are mere incidents. Carpenter v. Longan, 16
Wall. 271.

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

27

Argument for Respondents.

The loans herein were merely personal contracts, in no
way involving navigation or the perils of the sea. The
mortgages were mere security for performance of the personal contracts and in no way involved the use of the
steamers in navigation.
Maritime liens encumber commerce and are strictijuris.
Krauss Bros. Lumber Co. v. Dimon S. S. Corp., 290 U. S.
117; Piedmont &*George's Creek Coal Co.. v. Seaboard
Fisheries Co., 254 U. S. 1; The Kalfarli, 277 Fed. 391;
People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393.
The fact that the contracts involved were not wholly
maritime would preclude, original admiralty jurisdiction.
Grant v. Poillon, 20 How. 162; Piedmont & George's
Creek Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., 254 U. S. 1;
Pillsbury Flour Mills Co. v. Interlake S. S. Co., :4Q F.
(2d) 439, cert. den., 282 U. S. 845; The Richard Winso'w,
71 Fed. 426; The Milwaukee, 15 F. (2d) 886'; El Oriente,
5 F. (2d) 251.
Admiralty courts are not courts of equity: Bogart v.
The John Jay, 17 How. 399; People's Ferry Co. v. Beers,
20 How. 393; Rea v. The Eclipse, 135 U. S. 599; The
Ada, 250 Fed. 194; Kellum v. Emerson, Fed. Cas. No.
7669.
The attempted grant of admiralty jurisdiction, if applicable to the mortgages, would deprive the States of reserved jurisdiction over non-maritime contracts because
federal admiralty jurisdiction is exclusive. No state statute creating a maritime lien, justiciable in admiralty and
thereby waiving reserved state rights, is involved. Subsection K, if applicable, is unconstitutional. :People's
Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393; The Genesee Chief, 12
How. 443;" New England Marine Ins. Co. v. Dunham,
11 Wall. 1.
No interstate commerce is involved in the present controversy. It is significant that in Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution, defining the power of the Congress, the subject

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

293 U. S.

of admiralty is not mentioned. The connection of the
Congress with that subject is through Art. III, § 1, which
permits the Congress to apportion the judicial power conferred by the States but which cannot sustain 'an arrogated increase of power.
'The Congress cannot enlarge the grant of admiralty
jurisdiction. Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22; Meyer v.
Tupper, 1 Black 522; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 588.
Federal admiralty jurisdiction to enforce a lien is exclusive.' Subsection K of the Ship Mortgage Act expressly
provides that jurisdiction thereunder shall be exclusive.
If the Congress, by its fiat, can convert such a mortgage
into a maritime lien, the jurisdiction of the State is automatically divested. 'This cannot be done without the
approval of the State or amendment of -'e Constitution.
Cf. The Winnebago, 141 Fed. 945, cey t. den., 200 U. S.
616; The Moses Taylor v. Hammons, 4 Wall. 411; Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372; The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624; Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wall. 185; Norton
v. Switzer, 93 U. S. 355; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1;
The Roanoke, 189 U. S. 185; American Steamboat Co. v.
Chace, 16 Wall. 522; Perry v. Haivos, 191 U. S. 17.
The Congress may pregcribe forms, mode and rules of
judicial proceedings within the defined admiralty'jurisdiction of the courts,.but carmot make maritime a nonmaritime cause or transaction. Analysis will disclose no
decision upholding congressional regulation except as to a
matter unquestionably maritime. The General Smith,
4 Wheat. 438; Meyer v. Tupper, 1 Black 522.
In Providence & New York S. S. Co. v. Hill Mfg. Co.,
109 U. S. 578, this Court said:
"The rule of limited liability prescribed by the Act of
1851 is nothing more than the old maritime rule administered in courts of admiralty in all countries except England from time immemorial; and if this were not so, the

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

29

Argument for Respondents.

subject matter itself is one that belongs to the department of maritime law." In that case, the underlying
cause of action was unquestionably maritime. The act
of Congress merely controlled the procedure relating to
the enforcement of that jurisdiction and did no more than
alter a rule of recoverable damages in such cases. The
same is true of Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96, on
which petitioner relies, wherein the underlying cause of
action was the liability of a ship which, in its navigation,
damaged a bridge. Vancouver S. S. Co. v. Rice, 288 U. S.
445; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22.
Panama R. Co. v. Johzison, 264 U. S. 375, upheld the
Jones Act on the theory that it did not create a maritime
cause of action but merely regulated procedure.
To create a lien in connection with a matter already
subject to maritime jurisdiction is one thing; but to attempt thereby to create jurisdiction where none existed is
another. That the existence of a lien merely has not been
an accepted basis of our admiralty jurisdiction is also
attested by the fact that under the civil law many liens
against ships existed that were not enforceable in original
proceedings in rem under our law because the underlying
cause of action was, by our courts, held to be non-maritime.
The States have not voluntarily yielded their control
over non-maritime mortgages; and until they do, Congress cannot force them to do so. by conferring exclusive
jurisdiction upon the federal courts. United States v.
Flores, 289 U. S. 137, distinguished.
A fair construction of the Ship Mortgage Act justified
the holding that it does not apply to the particular mortgages involved. The Act should be so construed.
Essential original admiralty jurisdiction cannot be conferred by consent or estoppel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

293 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These are suits in admiralty to foreclose two mortgages
given by the Barlum Steamship Company upon the vessels "Thomas Barlum" and "John J. Barium," respectively. The mortgages purported to be preferred
mortgages under the Ship Mortgage Act, 1920. 41 Stat.
1000-1006; 46 U. S. C., c. 25, §§ 911-984. The mortgagor, appearing as claimant, contended that the admiralty was without jurisdiction. The District Court
overruled that contention and, finding that all the requirements of that Act had been met, entered decrees of
foreclosure and sale: 56 F. (2d) 455; 2 F. Supp. 733.
In the case of the "John J. Barlum" the decree provided
for the recovery by certain seamen, intervening libelants,
of amounts due for wages, as preferred maritime liens.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decrees, holding that the "suits should have been dismissed for the want
of jurisdiction. 68 F. (2d) 946. This Court granted
certiorari. 292 U. S. 619.
The mortgagor at the tiine the mortgages were executed,
was a close corporation, about four-fifths of its shares
being owned by John J. Barlum who was also interested
in several non-maritime enterprises. The mortgage, in
No. 13, on the "Thomas Barlum" was executed in
March, 1929, to petitioner, as trustee, to secure $200,000
of bonds which were purchased by petitioner with a definite understanding as to the application of the proceeds.
Approximately $50,000 were to meet obligations -secured
by a prior mortgage upon the same vessel; about $100,000
were to take up loans of John J. Barlum and Thomas
Barlum & Sons, a concern -which was engaged in a nonmaritime enterprise; and the remainder, about $42,000,
were to provide for repairs and for refitting the vessels
"Thomas Barlum" and "John J. Barium." The mort-

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

31

Opinion of the Court.

gage was executed while the "Thomas Barlum" was laid
up.The mortgage,.:in
No. 14, on the" John J.
Barlum"
was executed in December, 1927, to petitioner, as trustee, to secure an issue of $200,000 of bonds purchased by
petitioner with the understanding that, of the proceeds,
petitioner was to retain jbout $82,000 to cover principal
and interest on bonds of John J. Bairlum secured by a
mortgage on real estate, and about $10,000 to be applied
on one of' his notes. Most of: the remaining proceeds,
which were paid over to the mortgagor, was used to take
up loans in connecion with non-maritime enterprises,
only a small part being devoted to payments relating to
the operation of the vessels.
In both instances, the bonds secured'by the mortgages
were negotiable bonds and were purchased by petitioner
for sale to. the general public and were largely so sold.
There is no question as. to the validity of the mortgages
or of the bonds which they -secure or as to the default in
payment. The qtlestiQn is solely one of jurisdiction in
admiralty of the foreclosure suits. Respondet contends
that the mortgages "were so devoid of connection with
maritime purposes." that the provisiort of the Ship Mortgage Act conferring jurisdiction in admiralty "either does
not, or cannot constitutionally, apply.!'
The Circuit Court of Appeals was divided in olinion.
The majority of the judges, without passing on the extent of congressional authority, thought. that it was sufficient to point out that the mortgagor. and mortgagee
knew, before the mortgages were made, that the moneys
advanced "were intended fPr and actually were used for
non-maritime purposes," 'and they concluded that the
provisions of the Ship Mortgage Act did not extend to
such a case. The minority view, supporting the decision
of the District Court, was that the Congress intended to
,rncourage thp investment of capital in ships; that it

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court

293 U. S.

,night well be that this object could best be promoted by
-Ilowinz vessels " to be hypothecated as readily and with
the same effect as other personal property "; that a mnortgage on a ship. would be "a most undesirable security" if
purchasers of bonds so secured must at their peril ascertain how moneys advanced upon the mortgage are to be
spent; and that Congress had constitutional authority to
give to a valid mortgage a preferred status, and to provide for the enforcement of the lien in admiralty, by
virtue of its control over ships as essentially marine instrumentalities, a control which includes the promotion
of their development and the regulation of their use.
Prior to the enactment of the Ship Mortgage Act, 1920,
the admiralty had no jurisdiction of a suit to foreclose a
mortgage on a ship. Bogart v. The Steamboat John Jay,
17 How. 399; Schuchardt v. Ship Angelique, 19 How. 239,
241; People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How. 393, 400; The
Lottawanna,-21 Wall. 558. 583; The Eclipse, 135 U. S.
590, 608; The J. E. Rumbell, 148 U. S. 1, 15.1 If jurisdiction in the admiralty of the present suits is to be maintained it must be by reason of the application and validity of the provisions of the Ship Mortgage Act.
1. The application of the statute. The grant of jurisdiction is found in subsection K (46 U. S. C. 951) which
provides:
"A preferred mortgage shall constitute a lien upon the
mortgaged vessel in the amount of the outstanding mortUpon the degag- indebtedness secured by such vessel.
fault of any term or condition of the mortgage, such lien
may be enforced by the mortg-agee by suit in rem in adSee, also, The William D. Rire, 3 Ware 134, 136; The Marthn
Wa.qhington, 3 Ware 245, 251; The Sailor Prince, 1 Ben. 461, 466;
Morgan v. Tapscott, 5 Ben. 252; Britton v. The Venture, 21 Fed.
n?8; The Gordon Campbell. 121 Fed. 963, 965; The Clifton, 143
Fed. 460, 463; The Conveyor. 147 Fed. 586, 589; The Rupert City,
213 Fed. 263, 266.
1

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.

33

Opinion of the Court,

21

miralty. Original jurisdiction of all such suits is granted
to the district courts of the United States exclusively."
The grant is thus one of exclusive -jurisdiction to enforce the lien of a "preferred mortgage." If the mortgage is a preferred mortgage. within the definition of the
Act, jurisdiction is granted; otherwise not. " Preferred
mortgages" are. carefully defined in the detailed provisions of subsection D.2 46 U. S. C. 922. The applicaD is as follows: "Preferred Mortgages. (a) A valid
mortgage which, at .the time it is made includes the whole of any
vessel of the United States of 200 gross tons and upward, shall in
addition have, in respect to such vessel and as of the date of th
compliance with all the provisions of this subdivision, the preferred
stit.us given by the provisions of subsection M, section 953,.if"(1) The mortgage is indorsed upon the vessel's doeumenits in
accordance withthe provisions of this chapter;
"(2) The mortgage is recorded as provided in subsection C, section 921, together with the time and date when the morfgage is so
endorsed.;
"(31 An affidavit is filed with the record of such mortgage to the
effect that the mortgage is made in good faith and without any
design to hinder, delay, or' defraud any existing or futlure creditor
-of the mortgagor or any lienor of the mortgaged vessel;
"(4) The mortgage does not stipulate that the mortgagee waives
the preferred status thereof; and
"(5) The mortgagee is a citizen of'the United States.
"(b) Any mortgage which complies in respect to any vessel- with
the conditions enumerated in this' subsection is hereafter in this
chapter called a 'preferred mortgage ' as to such vessel.
"(c) There shall be indorsed upon the documents of a vessel
covered by a preferred mortgage"(1) The names of the mortgagor and mortgagee;
"(2) The time and date the indorsement is made;
"(3) The amount and date 9 f maturity of the mortgage; and
"(4) Any amount required to be indorsed by the provisions of
subdivision (e) or (f) of this subsection.
"(d) Such indorsement shall be made (1) by the collector of
customs of the port of documentation of the mortgaged vessel, or
(2) by the collector of customs of any port in. which the vessel is
found, if such collector is directed to make the indorsement by the
2 Subsection

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

tion of this term in the subsequent provisions of the Act,

including the provision as to admiralty jurisdiction, is not
left to inference but is explicitly stated in subdivision (b)
of subsection D as follows:

"Any mortgage which complies in respect to any vessel with the conditions enumerated in this subsection is
hereafter in this chapter called a 'preferred mortgage'
as to such vessel."
Subdivision (a) of subse,!tion D provides that a " valid
mortgage," which " includes the whole of any vessel of
the United States of 200 gross tons and upward," shall

have, in additidn, "in respect to such vessel and as of
the date of the compliance with all the provisions of this
collector of customs of the port of documentation; and no clearance
shall bc issued to the vessel until such indorsement is made. The
collector of customs of the port of documentation shall give such
direction by wire or letter at thd request of the mortgagee and
upon the tender of the cost of communication of such direction.
Whenever any new document is issued for the vessel, such indorsement shall be transferred to and inaorsed upon the new document
by the collector of customs.
"(e) A mortgage which includes property other than a vessel shall
not be held a preferred mortgage unless the mortgage provides for
the separate discharge of such property by the payment of a specified
portion of the mortgage indebtedness. If a preferred mortgage so
provides for the separate disciarge, the amount of the portion of
such payment shall be indorsed upon the documents of the vessel.
"(f) If a preferred mortgage includes more than one vessel and
provides for the separate discharge of each vessel by the payment
of a portion of the mortgage indebtedness, the amount of such portion of such payment shall be indorsed.upon the documents of the
vessel. In case such mortgage does not provide for the separate
discharge of a vessel and the vessel is to be sold upon the order of a
district court of the United States in a suit in rem in admiralty, the
court shall determine the portion of the mortgage indebtedness increased by 20 per centum (1) which, in the opinion of the court, the
approximate value of the vessel bears to the approximate value of all
the vessels covered by the mortgage, and (2) upon the payment of
which the vessel shall be discharged from the mortgage."

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

35

OpiniOn of the Court.

subdivision, the preferred status given by the provisions
of subsection M,"." 46 U. S. C. 953. The term "vessel
of the United States" means any vessel documOited under the laws of the United States; and, in the case of a
mortgage "involving a,trust deed and a bond issue thereunder," the term "mortgagee" means the trustee. Subsection B, 46 U. S. C. 911. The "preferred status"
given by subsection M is that, on foreclosure and sale in
Admiralty, all preexisting claims in the vessel are to be
held terminated and thereafter:are to attach to the proceeds of the- sale, and the "preferred mortgage lien " is
to have priority over all claims against the vessel, except
"preferred maritime liens" and expenses, fees and costs
allowed by the Court. "Preferred maritime liens" are
those arising prior to the recording and indorsemenit of
the mortgage as required, or "a lien for damages arising
out of tort, for wages of a stevedore when employed di*rectly by the owner, operator, master, ship's husband, or
Subsection M is as follows: "'Preferred Maritime Lien; Priorities;
Other Liens. (a) When used hereinafter 'in this chapter, the term
'preferred maritime lien' means (1) a lien :arising prihr in time 'to
the recording and indorsement of a preferred mortgage in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter; or (2) a Lien for damages arising
out of tort, for wages'of a stevedore when employed directly by the
owner, operator, master, ship's husband, or agent of the yessel, for
wages of the crew of the vessel, for general average, and for Alvage,
including contract salvage.
"(b) Upon the sale of any mortgaged vessel by order of a district
court .of the United States in any suit in rem in admiralty for the
enforcement of a preferred mortgage lien thereon, all .preexisting
claims in the vessel, including any possessory comnon-law lien of
which a lienor is deprived under the provisions of subsection L, sectioD
952, shall be held terminated. dnd shall thereafter attach, in likUe
amount-and in accordance with their respective priorities, to the pro
•ceeds of the sale; except that the. Preferred, mortgage lien shall have
priority over all claims against'the vessel, except (1) preferred maritime liens, and (2) expenses and fees allowed and costs taxed, by the
court,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

agent of the vessel, for wages of the crew of the vessel,
for general average, and for salvage, including contract
salvage."
The requirements of subdivizion (a) of
subsection D,
which must be met in order to, obtain this preferred
status, are that the mortgage shall be indorsed upon
the vessel's documents and shall be recorded; that an
affidavit shall be filed with the record "to the effect that
the mortgage is made in good faith and without any design to hinder, delay or defraud any existing or future
creditor of the mortgagor or any lienor of the mortgaged
vessel "; that the mortgage does not stipulate for a waiver
of the preferred status; and that the mortgagee is a citizen of the United States. Subdivisions (c) and (d) of
subsection D set forth the nature and manner of the required indorsement upon the documents of the vessel; and
subsection C (46 U. S. C. 921), to which subsection D
refers, contains detailed provisions as to recording.
. Subdivision (e) of subsectioij D provides that a mortgage which includes property 6ther than a vessel "shall
not be held a preferred mortgage" unless there is provision for the separate discharge of such property by the
payment o( a specified portion of the mortgage indebtedness; subdivision (f) of subsection D makes provision for
the case of a mortgage covering more than one vessel.
And where a mortgage covers property in addition to
vessels, the Act is not to be construed as authorizing a
proceeding in rem in admiralty to enforce the rights of the
mortgagee in respect to such property. Subsection N,"
46 U. S. C. 954.
4 Subdivision (b) of subsection N is as follows: "(b) This chapter
shall not be construed, in the case of a mortgage covering, ir. addition to vessels, reafty or personalty other than vessels, or both, to
authorize the enfrcement by suit in rem in admiralty of the rights
of the mortgagee in re lp.tto such realty or personalty other than
vessels."

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM."
21

37

Opinion of the Court.

Subsection E (46 U. S. C. 923) imposes the duty upon
the mortgagor to keep on board the mortgaged vessel a
certified copy of .the mortgage and to cause it~and the
vessel's documents to be exhibited by the master to any
person having business with the vessel which may. give,
rise to a maritime lien: or to a transfer or mortgage of
the vessel Subsection F (46 U. S. C. .924) requires the
mortgagor to disclose to the mortgagee, upon his request,
the existence of any maritime lien, prior mortgage, ;or
other obligation or liability of the vessel, that is known
to the mortgagor, and prohibits the mortgagor, after the
mortgage is executad and before the mortgagee has had
reasonable time tb record it and -to have the necessary
indorsements made upon the vessel's documents, from
incurring "any contractual obligation creating a: lien
upon the vessel," other than those liens which are made
"preferred maritime liens" as above stated.* Provision
-is also made for the record of notices of claims of lien
on the mortgaged vessel, for certificates of discharge of
liens, and for the inspection of records and -obtaining
copies. Subsections G and I, 46 U. S. C. 925, 927. Penalties are provided for failure to exhibit documents and for
violation of the Act in other respects; and provision is
also made for recovery, by suits in the district courts of
the United States,. against collectors of customs- and
mortgagors, or masters of .vessels, of damages caused by
failure to perform the duties imposed upon them. :Subsection J. 46 U. S. C. 941.
An examination of the provisions of the Act leaves no
room for doubt that the subject of mortgages of vessels, and, in particular, the'priority which should be assigned -to them in relation'to other liens, was under the
close scrutiny of the Congress in determining its policy.
But, among. all the -minute requirements of the Act, we
find none as to the application of the proceeds of loans
which such mortgages secure. No condition is imposed

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

as-to the purposes for which the moneys are lent. While
the Congress took care to make distinct provision for cases
where a mortgage covers property other than a vessel, no
distinction is made as to the status of mortgages of vessels by reason of an intention to devote the borrowed
moneys to uses other than maritime. We are not at
liberty to imply a condition which is opposed to the explicit terms of the statute. It is enough, so the statute
says expressly, that the mortgage is upon a vessel of the
United States, that it is & valid mortgage, that it is made
in good faith, that it is disclosed by proper indorsements
on the vessel's documents and is duly recorded, and that
the other conditions, specified in detail, are met. Such a
mcjrtgage upon a vessel documented under the laws of the
United States, the Congress has undertaken to regulate
with respect to priority of lien. If the conditions so laid
down are fulfilled, the mortiage is to be a "preferred
mortgage" with all the incidents which the Act attaches
-to it, including the right to briifobrecosure in admiralty.
To hold that a mortgage is not within the Act which the
Act itself states is within it, is not to construe the Act
but to amend it. The question of policy-whether different terms should have been imposed-is not for us. We
may not add to the conditions set up by Congress any
more than we can subtract from them. They stand, as
defined, precise and complete.
We sec nothing in the general purpose of the Act
which can be deemed to restrict the natural meaning
and effect of its language. Rather, the general purpose
emphasizes that meaning and effect. The Ship Mortgage Act is a part of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920.
41 Stat. 988. Its declared purpose is " to provide for
the promotion and maintenance of the American merchant marine." The Congress, in its wisdom, decided
upon the means to achieve that object and set forth its
conclusions in the terms of the statute. The legislative

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

39

Opinion of the Court.

history of the statute shows the controlling considerations. The report of the Senate Committee on Commerce pointed out that "mortgage security on ships"
was "practically worthless"; that it was proposed to
"make it good except as to certain demands that should
be superior to everything else, such as wages "; and, that
it was desired to have "our people and capital interested
in shipping and shipping securities." Sen. Rep. No. 573,
66th Cong., 2d sess., p. 9. The :bill, with this purpose,
was developed in conference. The managers on the part
of the House of Representatives, in their statement accompanying the report of the Committee of Confereice,
observed that by the enlarged provisions of the bill "the
mortgagee under a mortgage upon a vessel of the United
States is made more secure in his interest in the vessel
than he is under existing admiralty law," and, referring
to the plan of "creating a preferred mortgage," added
that "the preferred status arises upon the recording of
the mortgage as a preferred mortgage and its indorsement upon vessel's documents." There is no suggestion
of any requirement as to the use, intended or actual, of
the moneys borrowed upon the 'faith of the mortgage
security. H. R. No. 1102, 66th Cong., 2d sess., p. 34,
H. R. No. 1107, 66th Cong., 2d sess., p. 31. The measure
was'enacted in the terms thus proposed.
In this statement, the House managers said: "This Senate amendment is an extensive provision by which the mortgagee under a mortgage upon a vessel of the United States is made more secure in his
interest in the vessel than he is under existing admiralty law. The
amendment supplements the existing mortgage recording provisions
by creating a preferred mortgage which in foreclosure proceedings
will have priority in the distribution of the proceeds from the sale
of the mortgaged vessel over all maritime liens against the vessel
except liens for'damages arising out of tort, stevedores' and crews'
wages, general average, and salvage. The preferred status arises
upon the recording of the mortgage as a preferred mortgage and its
indorsement upon vessel's documents. Under the Senate amend-

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

In placing ship mortgages 'upon a stronger basis as
securities, the Congress- had in mind, and expressly included, trust deeds securing issues of bonds to the publi.
Subsection B, 46 U. S. C. 911. It is plain that the fundamental purpose to promote public confidence in such
securities, and their extended use as investments, would
have been frustrated if purchasers of bonds had to discover
at their peril the application of the proceeds of the secured
loans, or if their rights depended upon such knowledge as
their trustee might:have, rather than upon the satisfaction of the statutory conditions and the disclosures, as
required, by indorsement on the vessel's documents and
recording. But, while contemplating such bond issues,
with their obvious practical incidents, the Congress did
not set up a special rule for them, or. for purchasers of
bonds without notice as to the application of proceeds.
The Congress made simple, clear and definite conditions
ment the foreclosure proceedings are brought in the Federal courts
in equity with simulated admiralty procedure under which the court
in equity gives a title good against the world, and terminates all pre-.
existing claims against the vessel...
"The House recedes with an amendment which places the constitutional basis of Congress's power to legislate in respect to vessel
.mortgages, upon the grant of admiralty jurisdiction and the 'necessary and proper clause' of the Constitution, instead of the power
to .regulate interstate and foreign commerce. The amendment as
agreed to further places exclusive jurisdiction in the Federal courts
to foreclose vessel mortgages upon the .grant of admiralty jurisdiction instead of the provisions of 'the Constitution relating to diversity of citizenship and cases arising under the laws of the United
States. The. amendment as agreed to also makes the title granted
under the order of a court of admiralty in the case of the libel of a
Vessel covered by a preferred- mortgage good against the world as
under the existing admiralty law and international idmiralty practice; clarifies the provisions as to fleet mortgages; provides for the
reenactment and incorporation in the amendment of the existing
vessel mortgaga recording provisions, anci prevents the repeal of
section 4 of the'maritime lien act of 1910 in respect to the doctrines
of -advances ar:! laches."

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

41

Opinion of Lhe Court.

as to all ship mortgages otherwise valid, and when these
were performed the mortgages were to have the status
prescribed.
Given the standing of such mortgages in admiralty,
which the Congress desired to establish, an omission of a
provision as to the use of the moneys borrowed cannot be
regarded as anomalous. An analogous principle has been
recognized in relation to bottomry and respondentia
bonds. Thus, in the case of bottomry bonds, if the conditions of the bottoinry attach, such bonds when given
by the owher of the vessel have been held to be within the
admiralty jurisdiction even if they are given to secure
non-maritime outlays. That view was emphatically
stated by Justice Story in The Draco, 2 Sumn. 157.
There, jurisdiction of the District Court, sitting in admiralty, was challenged upon the ground that the bond in
question was not a " fit foundation for a proceeding in
rem." Id., p. 174. After a careful review of the historical
conception of bottomry bonds, Justice Story concluded
(id.. p. 186): " In my opinion, there is not the slightest
ground to uphold the doctrine, that, in order to constitute a bottomry bond, as such, in'the sense of themaritmne law, it is necessary that the noney should be
advanced for the necessities of the ship, or for the cargo,
or for the voyage. Where it is given by the master, virtute officii, it must, in order to have validity, be for the
ship's necessities; for the implied authority of the master
extends no farther. But where it is given by the owner,
as dominus navis, he may employ the money, as he
pleases. It is sufficient, if the money be lent upon the
bottom of the ship, at the risk of the lender, for the voyage." So, in the case of a respondentia loan, it is not
necessary that it should be made before the departure of
.the ship on the voyage or that the money lent should be
employed in the outfit of the vessel or invested in the
goods on which the risk is run. It matters not, this Court

*42

OCO OBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

has said, at what time the loAn. is made, or upon wh.t
goods the risk is taken. "If the risk of the voyage be
substantially and really taken," and the transaction be
otherwise valid,• "it is no objection to it, that it was
mpade after the voyage was commenced,, nor that the
moriey was appropriated to purposes wholly unconnected
with the voyage." The lender is not presumed to lend
" upon the faith of any particular appropriation of the
money." Conard v. Atlantic Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 386,
437. See Conardv.Nicoll, 4.Pet. 291, 310; 3 Kent's Com..
361; note (e); The Draco, supra, pp. 188, 189.
It is also to be noted. that the jurisdiction granted to
•the admiralty by the Ship Mortgage Act is exclusive. If
a mortgage is within the Act, there can be no suit to
foreclose it-in a state court; 6 if the mortgage is not within
the Act, there can be no suit for foreclosure in the admiralty. It cannot be doubted that the Congress recognized the importance of basing the jurisdiction, as thus
sought to be conferred, upon precise statutory conditions. We find no warrant for leaving it to be tested
by extrinsic criteria, raising a host of questions as to the
application of the proceeds of loans, in the solution of
which the statute affords no aid.
We conclude that the Court -had jurisdiction of the
suits provided the Congress had authority to .grant it.
2. The validity of the grant of jurisdiction. The Congress rested its authority upon 'the constitutional provisions extending the judicial power "to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction" and conferring upon
the Congress the power to make all laws which shall be
"necessary and proper" for carrying 'into execution all
powers "vested by this Constitution in the government
of the United States, or in any department or officer
thereof." Art. III, § 2; Art. I, § 8, par."18.' This author6 Bee Note 5.

ISee Note 5.

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

43

Opinion of the Court.

ity was not confined to the cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction in England when the Constitution was
adopted. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 44i, 457, 458. The
limitations which had been imposed upon the high court
of admiralty in the course of its controversy with the
courts of common law were not read into the grant. But
the grant presupposed a "general system of maritime
law" which was familiar to the .lawyers and statesmen
of the country, and contemplated a body of law with
uniform operation. The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 574,
575. The Constitution did not undertake to define the
precise limits of that body of law or to lay down a criterion
for drawing the boun'dar between maritime law and
local law. Id. Boundaries were to be determined in the
exercise of the judicial power. in recognition of-the purpose of the grant. "No state law can enlarge it, nor can
an act of Congress or rule of court make it broader than
the judicial power may determine to be its true limits."
The St. Lawrence, 1 Black 522, 527. The framers of the
Constitution did not contemplate that the maritime law
should remain unalterable. The purpose was to place the
entire subject, including its substantive as well as its procedural features, under national control. From the
beginning the grant was regarded as implicitly investing
legi'slative power for that purpose in the United States.
When the Constitution was adopted, the existing maritime law became the law of the United States "subject
to power in Congress to modify or supplement it as experience or changing conditions might require." Panama
Railroad Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 385-387. The
Congress thus has paramount power to determine the
maritime law which shall prevail throughout the country.
The Lottawanna, supra, p. 577; Butler v. Boston & Savannah S. S. Co., 130 U. S. 527, 557; In re Garnett, 141
U. S. 1, 13; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205,

OCTOBER TERM, i934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U.S.

215; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U' S. 22, 39; United States v.
Flores, 289 U. S. 137, 148, 149. But in amending and
revising the maritime law, the Congress necessarily acts
within h sphere restricted by the concept of the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction. The Belfast, 7 Wall. 624, 641;
Panama Railroad Co. v. Johnson, supra; Crowell v. Benson, supra, p. 55.
The Congress began the exertion of this authority at
an early date. In the Judiciary Act of 1789, the Congress conferred upon the district courts of the United
States exclusive jurisdiction of all seizures under the laws
of impost, navigation, or. trade of the United States, where
the seizures were made on navigable waters within the
respective districts. § 9, 1 Stat. 76, 77. Waring v. Clarke,
supra, p. 458; The Margaret,9 Wheat, 421, 427. By the
Act of June 19, 1813, 3 Stat. 2, the Congress declared that
a vessel employed in a fishing voyage should be answerable for the fishermen's share of the fish caught, upon a
contract made on land, in the same form and to the same
effect as any other vessel is liable to be proceeded against
for the wages of seamen. Waring v. Clarke, supra. Important illustrations of the exercise of congressional power
are found in the Limitation: of Liability Act of 1851, 9
Stat. 635, enacted for the purpose of encouraging investment in shipbuilding, by limiting the venture of shipowners to the loss of the ship itself, 6r her freight
then
pending, in cases of damage occasioned without the
owner's privity or knowledge (Norwich Co. v. Wright, 13
Wall. 104; Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 273 U. S. 207, 214); the extension, by the
Act of June 26, 1884, § 18, 23 Stat. 57, 58, of, the admiralty
jurisdiction to proceedings for the limitation of liability,
so as to include damages by a vessel to a land structure
(The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20; Cleveland Terminal & V. R.
Co. v. Steamship Co., 208 U. S. 316; Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96,101, 106); the Act of 1910, 36 Stat. 604,

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BAR LUM.
21

45

Opinion of the Court.

providing for a maritime lien for repairs or supplies furnished to a vessel in her home port, to be enforced by a
proceeding in rem (The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438,
443; The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat. 4Q9, 420; The J. E
Rumbell, 148 U.. S. 1, 12; Piedmont & G. C. Coal Co. v.
SeaboardFisheriesCo., 254 U. S. 1, 11) ; the Act of March
30, 1920, 41 Stat. 537, providing for jurisdiction in admiralty of suits for damages from death caused by wrongful act and occurring on the high seas (The Hamiltoi,
207 U. S. 398; Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, 257 U. S. 233,
243; Lindgren v. United States, 281 U. S. 38, 48); the
Seamen's Act of 1915, § 20, 38 Stat. 1185 (Chelentis v.
Luckenbach Steamship Co., 247 U. S.372, 384); the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 1007, amending § 20
of the Act of 1915, thus bringing, in relation to seamen,
into the maritime law, rules drawn from the Federal Employers' Liability Act (PanamaRailroad Co. v. Johnson,
supra; Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33; 35; Panama
Railroad Co. v. Vasquez, 271 U. S. 557, 559; Northern
Coal Co. v. Strand, 278 U. S. 142, .147); and the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act of
1927, 44 Stat. 1424 (Nogueira v. N: Y., N. H. & H. R. Co.,
281 U. S.128; Crowell v. Benson, supra).
Of special significance, in relation to the present question, are the Acts of 1884 and 1910, supra. By the
former, the admiralty jurisdiction in limitation proceedings was enlarged so as to embrace the liability for a
non-maritime tort. Although the damaged structure was
on land, the injury was due to the operation of the vessel, and it could not 5e said that the Congress had stepped
beyond the limits of its authority to amend the law in
furthering its policy to encourage investments in ships.
Richardsonv. Harmon,supra. Compare The Blackheath,
195 U. S. 361, 367, 368. The Act of 1910 created a lien
to be enforced in rem for repairs or supplies to vessels in
their home ports. The state of the law as it existed be-

46

OCTOBER TERM, i934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

fore that enactment was fully described in The J. E.
Rumbell, supra. For repairs or supplies furnished to a.
vessel in a foreign port, a lien was given by the general
maritime law and could be enforced in admiralty, but
for repairs or supplies in the home port, no lien existed,
or could be enforced in admiralty under the general law,
independently of local statute. When the statute of a
State gave a lien to be enforced by process in rem against
the vessel for repairs or supplies in her home port, that
lien, being similar -to the lien arising in a foreign port
under the general law, was deemed to be in the nature
of a maritime lien and therefore could be enforced in
admiralty, and, in such case the enforcement of the lien
was within the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States sitting in admiralty. The result was that
where necessaries were furnished to a vessel in her home
port, the vessel could not be sued in the federal courts
under the general maritime law, for that law was not
deemed to confer a lien, and could not be sued in a state
court, for that court could not enforce the lien created
by the state law, but the lien so given might be enforced
in admiralty." The Act of 1910 abolished the artificial
distinction between repairs and supplies in a home port
and those in a foreign port. While it created a lien where
in the absence of local provision therefor, none had theretofore existed, the change was not deemed to be inconsistent with the general principles of the maritime law
and it effected a substitution of a single federal statute
for the conflicting state statutes. Piedmont & G. C. Coal
Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., supra. The ikct of 1910
also provided that it should not be necessar "to allege
or prove" that credit was given to the vessel; previously,
supplies furnished to the vessel at the home port, or on
the owner's order, were presumed to be furnished upon
his personal credit and created no lien. Id.
'See Benedict's Admiralty, 5th ed., §§ 87, 88.

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

47

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent, in attacking the grant of jurisdiction by
the Ship Mortgage Act, relies strongly upon the reasoning
of the Court ii Bogart v. The Steamboat John Jay, supra,
which denied, under the former law, jurisdiction in admiralty to enforce payment of a mortgage upon a vessel.
The Court there said that neither in England I nor in the
United States had the admiralty courts exercised jurisdiction in questions of property between a inortgagee and
the owner; that the foundation of the rule was "that
the mere mortgage of a ship, other than that of an hypothecated bottomry," was a contract "without any of
the characteristics or attendants of a maritime loan"
and was made "without reference to navigation or perils
of the sea "; that it was a security "to make the performance of the mortgagor's undertaking more certain ";
that, while the mortgagor continued in possession of the
ship, the mortgagee was disconnected " from all agency
and interest: in the employment and navigation of her,
and from all responsibility for contracts made on her
account "; that there was nothing maritime in the contract; and that from the organization of courts of admira-lty and their modes of proceeding they cannot secure
to the parties to the mortgage "the remedies and protection which they have in a court of chancery."
But it did not follow, because this view was taken of
the existing law, that. the Congress was without power
to amend the law so as to enable the admiralty courts to
take cognizance of mortgages on ships; and to regulate
priorities of* liens, in. order to promote investment in
shipping securities and thus to advance the maritime interests of the United States. Indeed, in the Bogart case
the Court seemed to recognize the existence of that constitutional authority. For the Court, in concluding its
opinion, observed that the policy of commerce and its
exigencies in England had given to its admiralty courts
See The Neptune, 3 Hagg. 129 (132).

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

a more ample jurisdiction in respect to mortgages of
ships than they had under the former rule. And the
Court pointed out that this "enlarged cognizance of
mortgages" had been given by statute 3 and 4 Victoria,
chap. 65, and said that "until this shall be done in the
United States by congress, the rule, in this particular,
must continue in the admiralty courts of the United
States as it has been."
The significance of this suggestion cannot be overlooked. The fact that mortgages on ships had not been
considered to be maritime contracts was not conclusive
as to the constitutional authority of the Congress to alter
or supplement the maritime law in this respect, and thus
to extend the admiralty jurisdiction, " as experience or
changing conditions might require," while. keeping within
a proper conception of maritime concerns. The ship,
document*ed under the laws of the United States, is the
instrumentality of our maritime enterprise, the prime object of our maritime policy. The ship " from the moment her keel touches the water" becomes "a subject of
admiralty jurisdiction "; she acquires personality; she
becomes competent to contract, is individually liable for
her obligations, and is responsible for her torts. Tucker
v. Alexandroff, 183 U. S. 424, 438. The existence of the
ship, the investments which make that existence possible, is the necessary postulate of maritime liens. We
cannot fail to regard the encouragement of investments
"in shipping and shipping securities "-the objective of
the Ship Mortgage Act-as an essential prerogative of
the Congress in the exercise of its wide discretion as to
the appropriate development of the maritime law of the
country. The regulation of the priorities of ship morti
gages in relation to other liens, and the conferring of
jurisdiction in admiralty in order to enforce this regulation, are appropriate means to that legitimate end.

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

49

Opinion of the Court.

The enlargement .of the cognizance of mortgages of
ships, in the admiralty. courts in England, nearly one
hundred years ago, to which the Court referred in the
Bogart case, was to remedy an evil which had been found
to exist. The purpose was "to enable the Court to exercise its ordinary jurisdiction to the full extent." 10 That
Act applied Whenever the ship was "under arrest by process issuing from the high court of admiralty "'or the proceeds of a ship so arrested had been brought into the
registry of the court, and the court was invested with
"full jurisdiction to take cognizance of all claims and
causes of action of any person in respect to any mortgage
of such ship or vessel, and to decide any suit instituted
by any such person in respect of any such claims or
causes of action respectively." 3 & 4 Vict., c. 65, §§ 3, 4.
These provisions were expanded by later legislation.
The admiralty court in England has jurisdiction in respect of any mortgage duly registered according to the
provisions of the Merchant Marine Act, 1894, "whether
or
not the ship Or proceeds are undei the arrest of the
Court,
and such jurisdiction may .be exercised
by an
Admiralty
Roscoe's
personam."
or
in
in
rem
action
Practice, 5th ed., p. 51.
This response "to the exigencies of commerce " has had
its counterpart in the legislation of other European States.
It may be said that the "general maritime law" takes
cognizance of mortgages of ships, provides for their registration, and establishes rules with respect to priorities.1
20 See statement of Dr. Lushington in The Portitude, 2 Win. Rob,
217, 222.
11 See, e. g., The Netherlands, Maritime Law, Code of Commerce,
1838; France, Act of July 10, 1885, and Decree of June 18, 1886;
Belgium, Laws of August 21, 1879, June 12, 1902, February 10, 1908,
and September 4, 1908; Denmark, Maritime Law of April 1, 1892,
Act 103 of April 29, 1913, also Act 57 of April 1, 1892; Italy, Maritime Law, Code of Commerce' of 1883, and Mercantile Marine Code,

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Prior to the Ship Mortgage Act the right of the mortgagee to intervene as a claimant of proceeds of a vessel
sold by process in the admiralty was recognized and was
frequently exercised. Schuchardt v. Ship Angelique,
supra; The Lottawanna, supra; The J. E. Rumbell, supra.
The distinction between such an intervention and an
original proceeding by the mortgagee was no doubt controlling as a matter of jurisdiction and procedure under the
law as it then existed, but it cannot be considered as establishing a criterion of the constitutional power of the Congress in defining jurisdiction and procedure. The Congress
undoubtedly could determine the priorities that should be
recognized by the admiralty court and, having that authority, the Congress could fix the conditions upon which mortgages of ships documented under the laws of the United
States should have the priority specified. The grant of
jurisdiction in admiralty to entertain a suit by the mortgagee, where the mortgage complies with the prescribed
conditions, in order to enforce the permitted lien against
the vessel, is, after all, but a provision of suitable machinery to give effect to the rights which the Congress has
created.
If it be concluded, and we think it must be, that the
Congress has this power in the case of the mortgage of a
vessel to provide for its acquisition, or for the discharge
of prexisting liens, or for its necessities, that is, to authorize the enforcement by suits in admiralty of mortgages given to secure loans for the direct benefit of the
vessel, we perceive no ground to deny to the Congress
constitutional power to make similar provision as to mort1866, as amended; Norway, Maritime Law of July 20, 1893, +s
amended by Acts of May 4, 1901, July 13, 1917, and July 9, 1920.
See, Constant, "The Law Relating to the Mortgage of Ships," Appendix A; "The Progress of Continental Law in the 19th Century,"
Georges Ripert, Maritime Law, Continental Legal History Series, p.

399.

DETROIT TRUST CO. v. THE BARLUM.
21

51

Opinion of the Court.

gages of ships, which comply with its rules, although the
proceeds of the loans thereby secured are used for other
purposes. The analogy of the decision by Justice Story
in The Draco case, supra, as to bottomry bonds, and of
the decision of this Court in the Conard case, supra, as
to respondentia bonds, is apparent. If the maritime law
does .not require, as Justice Story held, that a bottomry
bond, as such, must be given for the necessities of the
ship or for the cargo or for the voyage, but that it is sufficient, when given by the owner, that the money be lent
upon the bottom of the: ship, at the risk of the lender,
for the voyage, and that in such case the owner is: free
to employ the -money as he pleases; if, as this Court decided, in the case of a respondentia loan, it is no objection
that it is made after the departure of the ship, or that the
money lent was not employed in the outfit of the vessel,
or invested in .the goods on which the risk was run, or that
the money was appropriated for purposes wholly unconnected with the voyage, we cannot see that an analogous
provision with respect to ship mortgages is so far inconsistent with the fundamental principles of maritime law
as to place such mortgages beyond the authority of the
Congress in determining the admiralty jurisdiction. The
contention to the contrary loses sight of the dominant
purpose of the Act, a'purpose which the Congress was
competent to achieve.. That purpose, we repeat, was to
establish the worth of "shipping securities," in the interest of the merchant marine. In order to create public
confidence in such securities, in obligations issued on the
faith of ship mortgages, the Congressdeemed it necessary,
not to hamper their issue or enforcement by compelling
inquiries as to the application of loans, but to give a
definite and assured character to such mortgages provided
they met certain simple conditions. The Congress in the
exercise of its discretion was entitled to consider the
:methods by which securities are issued to the public and

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U. S.

Syllabus.

dealt in, and. the well-known usages of business in this regard amply support its judgment.
The authority of the Congress to enact legislation of
this nature was not limited by previous decisions as to the
extent of the admiralty jurisdiction. We have had abundant reason to realize that our experience and new conditions give rise to new conceptions of maritime concerns.
These may require that former criteria of jurisdiction be
abandoned, as, for example, they were abandoned in discarding the doctrine that the admiralty jurisdiction was
limited to tidewaters. The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443,
overruling The Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428.
The constitutional validity of the grant of jurisdiction
by the Ship Mortgage Act has been sustained in The
Oconee, 280 Fed. 927, in The Nanking, 290 Fed. 769,'and
in The Lincoln Land, 295 Fed. 358.12 We find no reason
for reaching a contrary conclusion in the instant cases.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals are reversed
and the causes are remanded for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
-

LYNCH ET AL. v. NEW YORK EX REL. PIERSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 1. Argued October 9, 1934.-Decided November 5, 1934.

1. Jurisdiction to review a judgment of a state court can not be
founded upon surmise or be sustained by reference to briefs and
12 The validity of the Act was not questioned in Morse Drydock &
Repair Co. v. The Northern Star, 271 U. S. 552, 555, 556 and its
validity has been assumed in several decisions in the lower federal
courts. See-The Egeria (C. C. A. 9th), 294 Fed. 791; The Northern
No. 41 (S. D. Fla.), 297 Fed. 343; The Red Lion (E. D. N. Y.), 22
F. (2d) 329; National Bank v. Enterprise Marine Dock Co. (C. C. A.
4th), 43 F. (2d) 547; Consumers Co. v. Goodrich Transit Co. (C. C.
A, 7th), 53 F. (2d) 972.

