OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U. S.

Syllabus.

during their lives should be treated as parts of the estate
of the insured. See Reivich v. United States, 25 F. (2d)
670, 672; United States v. Woolen, 25 F. (2d) 673, 676.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. ET AL. V.

MATTHEWS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.

No. 441.

Argued November 12, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

A Maryland mortgage contained the assent of the mortgagor to the
passing of a decree for a sale of the property in accordance with
designated statutory provisions " or any amendments or additions
thereto." The effect would have been to permit the mortgagee,
or any owner of any fraction of the mortgage interest, to obtain a
decree in a summary proceeding for a sale of the property in, the
event of default or forfeiture, through the medium of a trustee to
be appointed by such decree. Before such proceedings were attempted, a new law was passed go amending the statute as to suspend the summary remedy during a period, of declared emergency
unless the application for the decree were Made or concurred in by
the record holders of not less than 25% of the entire unpaid mortgage debt.
As applied to a holder of less than this percentage, held:.
1. The amendment does not offend the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 236.
2. Where the contract clause is invoked, this Court must determine for itself the nature and effect of the alleged agreement and
whether this has been impaired. P. 236.
3. The assent in the mortgage contract embraced not only the
statutory provisions therein designated and such amendments or
additions as might have been made prior to the execution of the
mortgage (of which in fact there were none) but also future amendments or additions, including that which suspended the summary
remedy. P. 237.
4. Therefore, the amendatory Act did not impair the 6bligation
of the contract. P. 237.
167 Md. 383; 173 Atl. 903, reversed.

U. S. MORTG.AGE CO. v. MATTHEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

232

CERTIORAar* to review the affirmance of a decree for
the sale of mortgaged property in summary proceedings
brouight by holders, by assignment, of ani undivided
500 2950 share of the mortgage and debt. The owner
of the equity of redemption and the holder or representative of approximately 83'; of the unpaid debt defended
by intervention andbrought the case to this Court.
Messrs. James Thomas and IWilliam L. Marbury, Jr.,
with whom Mr. Clarence A. Tucker was on the brief, for
petitioners.
Messrs. Charles F. Stein, Jr., and Frederick H. Hennighausen, with whom Mr. J. Calvin Carney was on the
brief, for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
July 30, 1925, one Warner gave petitioner, Mortgage
Guarantee Company, a mortgage upon certain real estate
in Baltimore, Maryland, to secure $3,000 loaned to him
by that company. The mortgage instrument contained
ordinary covenants concerning interest, insurance, taxes,
&c. Also the following provision:
"And the said mortgagor doth hereby declare his assent
to the passing of a decree by the Circuit Court of Baltimore City or the Circuit Court No. 2 of Baltimore City
for a sale of the property hereby mortgaged in accordance
with Sections 720 to 732 inclusive of Chapter 123 of the
laws of Maryland passed at the January session 1898 or
any amendments or additions thereto."
In July, 1932, the mortgagee assigned to respondents,
Mary and John Matthews, an undivided 500/2950 interest
in the unpaid portion of the debt-2,950.
See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

When the mortgage was executed § 720, Chapter 123,
Maryland laws 1898, was in force. It provided:
"In all cases of conveyances of lands or hereditaments
or of chattels real, or goods and chattels personal, situate
in said City, wherein the mortgagor shall declare his assent
to the passing of a decree for the sale of the same, it shall
be lawful for the mortgagee or his assigns at any time
after filing the same to be recorded, to submit to either of
the Circuit Courts of Baltimore City the said conveyances
or copies thereof, under seal of the Superior Court; and
the Circuit Court to which the same is so submitted, may
thereupon forthwith decree that the mortgaged premises
shall be sold at any one of the periods limited in said conveyances for the forfeiture of said mortgages or limited
for a default of the mortgagors, and on such terms of sale
as to the said court may seem proper, and shall appoint
by said decree a trustee or trustees for making such sale,
and shall require bond and security for the performance
of the trust as is usual in cases of sales of mortgaged
premises." Art. 4, Code Public Local Laws of Maryland
(1930 edition), Entitled "Baltimore City," sub-title
"Mortgages," § 720.
The Maryland Ccurt of Appeals in Richardson v.
Owings, (1898) 86 Md. 663; 39 Atl. 100, construed the
provisions of § 720 and ruled that one who owned part of
a mortgage upon property in Baltimore, by proceeding
under provisions of that section might obtain the decree
there provided for.
There was no amendment or addition to § 720, until the
passage of Ch. 56, Acts of 1933 [Special Session], approved December 15, 1933. That chapter provides:
"Section 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
Maryland, That a new section be and the same is hereby
added to Article 4 of the Code of Public Local Laws of
Maryland (1930 Edition), title 'Baltimore City,' subtitle 'Mortgages,' said new section to be known as 720A

U. S. MORTGAGE CO. v. MATTHEWS.
232

235

Opinion of the Court.

and to follow immediately after Section 720 and to read as
follows:
" 720A. In all cases submitted to either of the Circuit
Courts of Baltimore City for the passage of a decree as
provided for in Section 720 aforesaid, no such decree shall
hereafter be passed during the period of emergency heremade or coninafter declared, unless such application is.
curred in by the record holders of not less than 25% of
the entire unpaid mortgage debt, it being hereby declared
to be the intent of this Section during the period this
Section is effective, that the holder or holders of a fractional interest in an entire mortgage debt of less than
25% of the entire interest, shall not have recourse to the
summary and ex parte remedies given under Section 720."
December 22, 1933, respondents-the Matthews-presented a petition to Circuit Court No. 2, Baltimore City,
wherein they alleged execution of the mortgage by
Warner, his assent to the passing of a decree for sale, the
assignment of part of the mortgage debt to them, also
default. They asked a decree directing sale as permitted
by § 720.
Thereupon the United States Mortgage Company,
owner of the equity of redemption, and the Mortgage
Guarantee Company, holder or duly authorized representative of approximately 83% of the unpaid mortgage
debt, intervened. Answering, they relied upon Ch. 56,
Acts of 1933, and opposed the prayed for decree. The
Matthews then filed an amended petition challenging the
validity of Chapter 56, because of conflict with § 10, Art.
1, Federal Constitution, and the 14th Amendment; also
because it violated the State Constitution.
The trial judge held the chapter unconstitutional
"both as impairing the obligation of contract, and as
class legislation of an arbitrary and illegal character."
Final decree ordered the sale of the mortgaged property
and designated a trustee to make it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Upon appeal the Court of Appeals held:
That the clause in the mortgage by which the mortgagor gave assent to decree for sale of the property as
provided by §§ 720-732 " or any amendments or additions
thereto " when properly construed did not amount to an
agreement that the proceeding should be " governed by
any future amendments or additions to those sections
which should become effective before the application for
the consent decree," but that " the intention of the parties
in employing that language embraced only such amendments or additions as had been made prior to the execution of the mortgage."
Also that Chapter 56 impairs the obligation of the contract between the parties and therefore conflicts with Art.
1, § 10 of the Federal Constitution, but is not subject to
objection " on the ground that it is special legislation and
denies the appellees the equal protection- of the laws,
contrary to the 14th Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States and to similar provisions of the Constitution and Bill of Rights of Maryland."
We agree that Chapter 56 does not offend the 14th
Amendment by denying equal protection of the laws, and
accept the reasons given to support that view-" The
classification thus made would seem clearly to have direct
relation to the purpose which the Legislature had in mind,
and which we cannot say was arbitrary or fanciful."
It is well established doctrine that where the contract
clause is invoked this Court must determine for itself the
nature and effect of the alleged agreement and whether'
this has been impaired. Funkhouser v. Preston Co., 290
U. S. 163. Accordingly we must here decide what agreement resulted from the language employed by the parties
to the mortgage.
We cannot sanction the conclusion of the Court of
Appeals on this point. The assent set forth in the mortgage was "to the passing of a decree . . . for a sale of

MITCHELL v. MAURER.
237

Syllabus.

the property hereby mortgaged in accordance with Sections 720 to 732 inclusive of Chapter 123 of the laws of
Maryland passed at the January session 1898 or any
amendments or additions thereto." Prior to the mortgage there had been no such amendment or addition, and
it cannot, we think, be correctly said that " the intention
of the parties in employing that language embraced only
such amendments or additions as had been made prior to
the execution of the mortgage." On the contrary, the
words employed seem to us sufficient to embrace the
amendments and 4dditions thereafter made by Chapter
56. A contrary holding would deprive the words employed of their customary meaning. And we find nothing
which requires us to accept any other meaning.
It follows that the challenged Act cannot properly be
said to impair the obligation of the agreement between
the parties within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
The judgment under review must be reversed and the
cause remanded to the Court of Appeals for further action
not in conflict with this opinion.
Reversed.
MITCHELL, INSURANCE COMMISSIONER
CALIFORNIA, v. MAURER ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

OF

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 54.

Argued November 7, 8, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. Where receivers of a corporation, appointed by a state court, file
a suit against it in the federal court in another State in which they
seek an ancillary receivership and are the only actors, there is no
federal jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of citizenship if one
of them and the corporation are citizens of the same State; and in
this regard it is immaterial that the bill in its' caption names as

