454

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
293 U. S.

Syllabus.

in demanding arbitration. The reasons why these contentions are without merit are sufficiently stated in the
opinion of the Court of Appeals.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. BALTIMORE & OHIO

RAILROAD CO.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 221. .Argued December 12, 13, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.
1. Adoption of a rule requiring rail carriers to substitute powerbperated for band-operated reversing gear, if the latter is found to
render the engine unsafe or to subject employees or others to " unnecessary peril of life or limb," is within the scope of the authority vested in the Interstate Commerce Commission by the amended
Boiler Inspection Act. P. 458.
2.. The Boiler Inspection Act, as amended, imposed upon the Interstate Commerce Commission responsibility for adequate safety
rules, and to that end it granted to the Commission the power not
only of disapproving rules proposed by the carriers but also of
requiring modifications of rules in force. P. 459.
3. 'This power may properly be exercised on complaint of Brotherhoods representing employees. P. 461.
4. The Act confers authority on the Commission to prescribe by rule
specific devices, or changes in equipment, only where these are
required in order to remove " unnecessary peril to life or limb ";
gnd a finding by the Commission to that effect is essential to the
existence of the authority. P. 462.
5. To support an order of the Commission amending the rules under
the Boiler Inspection Act so as to require substitution of poweroperated for hand-operated reversing gear in steam locomotives, it
must appear, and not merely by inference, that the Commission
found that the use of the hand gear, as compared with the use of
the power gear, causes unnecessary peril to life or limb. In the
absence of such a finding, the order is void. P. 463.
5 F. Supp. 929, affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
454

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, which set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission amending the rules under
the Boiler Inspection Act. The suit was brought against
the United States by a number of railroad companies
suing on behalf of themselves and other railroads. The
Commission and the chiefs of two organizations of looomotive engineers and firemen intervened.

Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Stephens, and
Mr. Elmer B. Collins were on the brief, for the United
States and the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Harold N. McLaughlin, with whom Mr. Thomas
Stevenson was on the brief, for Johnston et al., intervener-appellants.
Messrs. Jacob Aronson and Nye F. Morehouse, with
whom Messrs. R. V. Fletcher,Sidney' S. Alderman, H. Z.
Maxwell, Clarence A. Miller, and Alfred P. Thorn, Jr.,
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Tlhis is a direct appeal from the decree of the federal
court for northern Ohio, setting aside an order, under the
Boiler Inspection Act, entered by the Interstate Commerce Commission on January 5, 1933.
At the date of the order there were in use in the United
States about 31,597 steam locomotives equipped with hand
reverse gear and 28,925 equipped with power reverse
gear.' Prior to the order, Rule 157, which prescribes the

I As described in the carriers'

bill: "The reversing gear, or 'reverse

gear' as it is usually called, of a steam locomotive is the mechanism

which controls the position and movement of the locomotive valve

456

OCTOBER TERM, .1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

reverse gear on locomotives, ldt it optional with railroads
to equip them with either hand operated or power operated reverse gear.2 The order amended that rule so as
to require the railroads to equip "with a suitable type of
power operated reverse gear" all steam locomotives built
on or after April 1, 1933; and similarly to equip, "the
first time they are given repairs defined by the United
States Railroad Administration as Class 3, or heavier," all
steam locomotives then in road service " which weigh on
driving wheels 150,000 pounds or more," and all then used
in switching service "which weigh on driving wheels
130,000 pounds or more." The order required that, in any
event, all such steam locomotives be so equipped before
January 1, 1937; and that "air operated reverse gear [including thus power gear already installed] shall have a
suitable steam connection" so arranged "that in case of
air failure steam may be quickly used to operate the regear and valves which admit steam into the cylinders, and it is by
means of this mechanism that the direction of movemept of the
locomotive is controlled, and the proper and economical use of steam
is accomplished. Two general classes of. reverse gears are in use, viz:
(1) Manually operated reverse gears which depend upon the use of
muscular force of the engineer and the force exerted by the counterbalancing weights and springs, for their operation; and (2) power
reverse gears which supplement the above-mentioned forces with an
auxiliary meehanism which, in normal operation, brings the force
of compressed air into play, so that less muscular effort is normally
required to be put forth by the engineer in using this type of gear.
The engineer operates either class of gear by means of either a lever
or handwheel (used with screw type of gear) located near his seatbox in the locomotive cab."
'Rule 157: "Reverse Gear.--Reverse gear, reverse levers, and
quadrants shall be maintained in a safe and suitable condition for
service. Reverse lever latch shall be so arranged that it can be easily
disengaged, .and provided with a spring which will keep it firmly
seated ir quadrant. Proper counterbalance shall be provided for the
valve gear."

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
454

Opinion of the Court.

verse gear." A. Johnston v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co.,
190 I. C. C. 351.
The order of the Commission was entered on a complaint of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and
the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen.
The complaint alleged, in substance, that while power
reverse gear is a suitable, safe and practical device, manually operated reverse gear is inherently unsafe and unsuitable in principle and design; that it subjects employees and the traveling public to unnecessary peril; and
that the use of locomotives equipped with hand reverse
gears violates the Boiler Inspection Act. The complaint
prayed that the Commission prescribe rules requiring that
all steam locomotives be equipped "with power reverse
gear, or other devices adequate to protect the employees
upon said locomotives from unnecessary peril to life or
limb, as provided in section 2," of the Act.
Practically all the railroads of the United States were
made respondents. They challenged in their answers the
jurisdiction of the Commission on the grounds that the
procedure was unauthorized and that a power reverse
gear was not a safety device or appliance within the
meaning of § 2 of the Boiler Inspection Act; denied the
essential allegations of the complaint; and, as additional
reason for refusing its prayer, set up the impaired financial condition of the carriers. These issues were referred
for hearing to an examiner. Fifty-five days were devoted
to the taking of testimony. The witnesses numbered 337.
Their testimony covered 6,491 pages. There were introduced, in addition, 109 exhibits, many of them voluminous. The proposed report of the Examiner occupies 40
pagesof the printed record in this Court; and the railroads' exceptions to it, 60 pages. The exceptions were
heard by a Division of the Commission consisting of three

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

members; and reargument before the whole Commission
was denied.
This suit to set aside the order was brought by Baltimore & Ohio Railroad and other carriers, suing on behalf
of themselves and substantially all the other railroads.
The original defendant was the United States. The Commission, Grand Chief Johnston of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and President Robertson of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen and Enginemen are defendants by intervention. The case was heard by the
District Court, three judges sitting, on a transcript of the
record before the Commission. The railroads again contended that the Commission lacked authority to entertain
the complaint. They insisted also that the order was void
for lack of essential findings of fact. These objections
were overruled. But the court, citing among others, The
Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258 and United States
v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274, set the order
aside, on the ground that the Commission had acted arbitrarily, in failing to give consideration and legal effect
to pertinent, uncontradicted facts having a controlling
bearing upon the issues, and in disregarding undisputed
evidence. 5 F. Supp. 929. An appeal to this Court by all,
the defendants was allowed. The appellants contended
that the action of the District Court constituted substitution of its judgment for that of the Commission. The
argument here was devoted, in large part, to the consideration of the findings of the lower court charging disregard
by the Commission of the evidence before it. For reasons
which will be stated later, we have no occasion to enter
upon that enquiry.
First. The Commission clearly has authority, in an appropriate proceeding, to forbid the use of a locomotive
equipped-with a manually operated reverse gear if, by
reason thereof, the engine is rendered unsafe or subjects
employees of the railroad or others to "unnecessary peril

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
454

Opinion of the Court.

to life or limb." The substitution of power operated reverse gear for manjially operated reverse gear, might conceivably be found necessary to promote safety, even if it
did so only indirectly by preventing the impairment of
the health of engineers through excessive exertion or
fatigue. To require the installation of power operated
reverse gear is, in its nature, within the scope of the authority delegated to the Commission. For " the power
delegated to the Commission by the Boiler Inspection Act
as amended is a general one.' It extends to the design, the
construction and the material of every part of the locomotive and tender and of all appurtenances." Napier v.
Atlantic Coast Line, 272 U. S. 605, 611.
Second. The railroads contend that, in the proceeding
under review, the Commission lacks authority to make
any change of the existing rule concerning reversd gears;
that authority to initiate changes in existing rules was
denied to it; that the rules governing boilers and their
appurtenances approved June 2, 1911, and the additional
ones governing locomotives, tenders and appurtenances
approved October 11, 1915, cannot be changed except
upon application of the carriers or with their consent.
The argument is that the Boiler Inspection Act is an independent and complete piece of legislation and thus the
Commission is denied in respect to locomotives those general powers which it exercises in other connections; that
by the original Act of 1911 the right to initiate rules
was by § 5 conferred not upon the Commission, but upon
the several railroads and, only to the extent that one or
more of the carriers failed to act within three months,
upon the chief inspector; that the Commission's power
of requiring modifications was limited to the rules originally filed; thrat in respect to subsequent changes therein,
'February 17, 1911, c. 103, § 2, 36 Stat. 913; amended March 4,
1915, c. 169, 38 Stat. 1192; June 7, 1924, c. 355, 43 Stat. 659.

460

OCTOBER TERM,
Opinion of the Court.

934.
293 U. S.

its sole function is that of approval or disapproval of the
carriers' proposals; and that the Commission's only other
authority in respect to locomotives is that, conferred by
§ 6, of reviewing the action of the chief inspeetor in
declaring individual locomotives unfit for service.
To hold that the authority of the Commission is thus
limited would defeat, in large measure, the purpose of the
legislation; and would be inconsistent with long established practice. Congress imposed the strictly administrative duties, in the main, upon the chief inspector. But
it specifically directed, in § 6, that the " first duty [of the
district inspectors] shall be to see that the carriers make
inspections in accordance with the rules and regulations
established or approved by the Interstate Commerce
Commission." Upon The Commission were conferred, besides some strictly administrative powers, both quasilegislative and quasi-judicial functions. The latter it was
authorized to exercise only in the appellate capacity of reviewing, under § 6, orders of the chief inspector declaring
an individual locomotive unserviceable. Its legislative
power was to be exercised in the making of rules. Section
5 of the original Act pr6vided that" each carrier subject to
this Act shall file its rules and instructions for the inspection of locomotive boilers with the chief inspector within
three months after the approval of this Act, and after
hearing and approval by the Interstate Commerce Commission, such rules and instructions, with such modifications as the commission requires, shall become obligatory upon such carrier." When this Act was passed, in
1911, there were doubtless already in force on each railroad some rules established by the carrier. And likewise,
in 1915 and in- 1924, when the scope of the Act was extended, there were doubtless in force on each railroad rules
established by the carrier governing parts, appurtenances
or engines, not falling within ,the field covered by the
previously existing legislation. Naturally those carrier-

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. 0.
454

461

Opinion of the Court.

rules would be the starting point in the Commission's
rule making; and, naturally, it would be much influenced,
as well as instructed, by the chief inspector's proposals or
recommendations. But the responfsibility for rules .adequate to ensure safety was imposed by Congress upon the
Commission; and. to discharge that duty, it was essential
that the Commission, also, should possess the initiative
in rule making. To this end, it was granted the power,
not only of disapproving proposed rules, but also of requiring modifications of those in force. The power so
conferred may obviously be exercised, as was done here,
on' complaint of the Brotherhoods representing employees
directly affected.
In the Napier case, the question directly before the
Court was not the authority of. the Commission to initiate
rules. It was the' validity of state laws and rules prescribing specific safety devices on locomotives. But the
objection now raised by the railroads was discussed by
counsel and was considered by the Court. The validity
of the state laws and regulations was challenged on the
ground that the Boiler Inspection Act had occupied the
field; and as the question whether it had done so was
one of statutory construction, the provisions of the Act
were necessarily examined. The conclusion that the
Comimission possesses the authority to make rules on its
own initiative, or, upon complaint, was the basis of the
decision there made. (See pp. 611-613.) Referring to
the argument of the States "that the authority delegated
to the Commission does not extend to ordering the use or
installation of equipment of any kind, Baltimore & Ohio
R. R: Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S.521," we said: "The duty
of the Commission is not merely to inspect. It is, also,
to prescribe 'the rules and regulations by which the fitness for service shall be determined. Unless these rules
and regulations are complied with, the engine is not 'in
'proper condition'. for operation. Thus the Commission

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

sets the standard. By setting the standard it imposes
requirements. The power to require specific devices was
exercised before the amendment of 1915 and has been
extensively exercised since." In closing the opinion, we
added: " If the protection now afforded by the Commission's rules is deemed inadequate, application for relief
must be made to it. The Commission's power is ample."
In the Napier case this Court listed in the margin 18
rules which had, before 1925, been amended by order of
the ComnMission, 4 . Acting upon the suggestion there
made by this Court, the state authorities and the Brotherhoods applied to the Commission for relief in proceedings similar to those here under review and rules were
prescribed by it.' All the railroads either conceded its
authority.-to do so or acquiesced in its final orders. Cab
Curtain Case, 142 I. C. C. 199, 201; Fire Door Case, 151
I. C. C. 448, 450. Compare Rules for Testing other than
Steam Power Locomotives, 122 I.* C. C. 414; Staten
Island Rapid Transit Ry. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 16 F. (2d) 313.
Third. The railroads contend that to support "theorder
certain basic findings are essential; that these were not
made; and that, hence, the order is void. This contention is in our opinion sound. The Act does not confer
upon the Commission legislative authority to require the
adoption on locomotives of such devices as, in its discretion, it may from time to time deem desirable. The operation of an engine, however equipped, involves some
"danger to life or limb." At common law the carriers
were ."free to determine how their boilers should be kept
The railroads state that the Commission's orders disclose that "a
considerable number" of the changes were brought about as a result
of conferences between the chief inspector and committees representing all the'railroads, or upon requests of representatives ofithe carriers, which modifications were agreed to by the representatives of the
employees interested and by the chief inspector.

UNITED STATES v. B. & 0. R. CO.
454

Opinion of the Court.

in proper condition for use without unnecessary danger."
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521, 529.
And the Act conferred authority to prescribe by rule
specific devices, or changes in the equipment, only where
these are required to remove "unnecessary peril to life or
limb." The power to make the determination whether
the proposed device or change is so required, vests in the
Commission. But its finding to that effect is essential to
the existence of authority to promulgate the rule; and
as Congress has made affirmative orders of the Commission subject to judicial. review, The Chicago Junction
Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263-265,1 the order may be set aside
unless it appears that the basic finding was made. Florida v. United States, 282 U. S. 194.
The primary question of fact presented for determination was, as the report of the Commission stgtes,
" whether the use of locomotives equipped with hand reverse gear, as compared with power reverse gear, causes
unnecessary peril to life or limb." The report discusses,
at some length, the alleged advantages and disadvantages
of the two classes of reverse gear and the expense which
the proposed change would entail; and concludes with
"findings" that, to a certain extent, the change should
be made.' But whether the use of any or all types of
'Compare United States v. Atlanta, B. & C. R. Co., 282 U. S. 522,
527-529.
. 'The closing paragraphs of the report are: "On the record
in this
case we conclude and find that the safety of employees and travelers
on railroads requires that all steam locomotives built on or after
April 1, 1933, be equipped with a suitable type of power-operated
reverse gear.
"We further find that all steam locomotives used in road service
built prior to April 1, 1933, which weigh on driving wheels 150,000
pounds or more, and allsteam locomotives used in switching service
built prior to April 1, 1933, which weigh on driving wheels 130,000
pounds or more, shall have such power-operated reverse gear applied
the first time they are given repairs defined by the United States-

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

steam locomotives "equipped with hand reverse gear as
compared with power reverse gear causes unnecessary
peril to life or limb," is left entirely to inference. This
complete absence of " the basic or essential findings required to support the Commission's order" renders it
void. Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 215. Compare Wichita Railroad & Light Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 260 U. S. 48, 58-59; Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S.
32, 44-45."
In the Florida case the legal distinction was pointed
out between what .may. be termed quasi-jurisdictional
findings, there held to be indispensable, and the "complete statement of the grounds of the Commission's determination " which was declgred in Beaumont, ,8. L. &
W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 282 U. S. 74, 86, to be ddsirable for a proper consideration of the case in the courts.
The lack of such a complete statement, while always regrettable, because unnecessarily increasing the labor of
Railroad Administration as class 3, or heavier, and that all such loconjotives shall be so equipped before January 1, 1937.
"We further find that air-operated power reverse gearshouid have
a suitable steam connection.so arranged and maintained that it can
quickly be used in case of air failure.
"An appropriate order amending our rules for the inspection and
testing of steam locomotives and tenders and their appurtenances to
give effect to these findings will be entered."
'The objection presented here is similar to that urged upon the
Court in United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70, 80. There, however, the Court was satisfied that the essential hndings had been
made, although "the particular form in which they were cast
[was] not to be commended." Compare Georgia Comm'n v. United
States, 283 U. S.765, 773; Alabama v. United States, 283 U. S. 776,
779; Louisiana Public Service Comm'n v. Texas & N. 0. R. Co., 282
U. S. 125, 132; Illinois Commerce Comm'n v. United States, 292
U. S. 474, 481483; Ohio v. United States, 292 U. S. 498, 511; Montana v. United States, 2 F. Supp. 448, aff'd 290 U. S.593; Kentucky
v. United States, 3 F. Supp. 778. See, too, New York v. Unitea
States, 257 U. S.591, 600.

GREGORY v. HELVERING.
454

465

Syllabus.

the reviewing court; compare Virginian Ry. v. United
Slates, 272 U. S. 658, 675, is not fatal to the validity of the
order. It is true that formal and precise findings are not
required, under § 14 (1) of the Tnterstate Commerce Act,
which declares that the report "shall state the conclusions
of the Commission together with its decision." ' Compare
Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457,
487; Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 236 U. S.
412, 428. That provision relieves the Commission from
making comprehensive findings of fact similar to those
required by Equity Rule 701/2. But § 14 (1) does not
remove the necessity of making,. where orders are subject
to judicial review, quasi-jurisdictional findings essential
to their constitutional or statutory validity.'

Affirmed.
GREGORY u.'HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 127.

Argued December 4, 5, 1934.-Decided January 7, 1935.

1. A corporation wholly owned by a taxpayer transferred 1000
shares of stock in another corporation held by it among its assets
to a new corporation, which thereupon issued all of its shares to the
The original Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, § 14, 24 Stat. 384,
which had prescribed that the report should "include findings of
fact upon which the conclusions of the Commission are based," was
amended by § 3 of the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 589,
so as to require (except in reparation cases) that it -hall make a
report "which sha state the conclusions of the commission together
with its decision, order, or requirement in the premises."
'A different rule has been applied to executive action not subject
to review. Compare Philadelphia & Trenton *R. Co. v. Stimpson,
14 Pet. 448, 458; United Stdtes v. Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S.
1, 14-15.

