OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

293 U. S.

BORDEN'S FARM PRODUCTS CO., INC. v. BALDWIN, COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE AND

MARKETS OF NEW YORK.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 296.

Argued Novcmber 6, 7, 1934.-Decided December 3, 1934.

1. The presumption attaching to legislative, action is a presumption
of fact,-a presumption of the existence of factual conditions supporting the legislation; it isa rebuttable presumption. P. 209.
2. When a classification made by the legislature is called in question,
if any state of facts reasonably can be conceived that would sustain
it, there is a presumption of the existence of that state of facts,
and he who assails the classification must carry the burden of showing by a resort to common knowledge or other matters which may
be judicially noticed, or to other legitimate proof, that the action
is arbitrary. P. 209.
3. That a classification made by a statute is arbitrary may appear on
ihe face of the statute or by facts admitted or proved. P. 210.
4. Where legislative action is suitably challenged and a rational basis
for it is predicated of the particular economic facts of a given trade
or industry, which are outside the sphere of judicial notice, those
facts are properly the subject of evidence and of findings. P. 210.
5. With the notable expansion of the scope of governmental regulation, and the consequent assertion of violation of constitutional
rights, it is increasingly important that when it becomes necessary

for the Court to deal with the facts relating to particular commercial or industrial conditions, they should be presented concretely
with appropriate determinations upon evidence, so that conclusions
shall not be reached without adequte factual support. P. 210.
6. That provision of the New York Milk Control legislation which
permits dealers not having a " well advertised trade name" to sell
milk at a minimum price lower 'than the minimum imposed on
dealers having such a name, and which is limited in its operation
to sales in the City of New York, does not appear to have been
enacted as a precaution against monopoly, nor in support of a
policy to increase the sales of milk. P. 205.
7. Whether this discriminatory price differential may be justified,
(1) as a means of protecting a selling advantage which dealers not

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
194

Statement of the Case.

having a "well advertised trade name " may have enjoyed'before
the State's scheme of fixing minimum prices to producers and consumers was adopted, and (2) as a means of insuring a return to old
competitive conditions should that scheme be abandoned, can not be
determined without kiiowledge of the particular trade conditions
in the City of New York.- Those conditions lie largely beyond
the range of judicial notice; and, in a case disposed of below
without evidence or findings, by sustaining a motion to dismiss
the bill for failure to state a cause of action, this Court can
not undertake to glean the factual basis of the provision from
tables and statements in legislative reports not addressed to the
subject, or from affidavits submitted to the court below on a m-.
tion for a preliminary injunction, which fell with the dismissal of
the bill. P. 207.
8. A New York statute and administrative regulations, fixing minimum prices for milk sold in New York City, established a differential to the disadvantage of dealers having "a well advertised
trade name," requiring in effect that the milk they dealt in be
priced at one cent more per quart than milk dealt in by competitors. One of the four dealers classed within the quoted designation sued to enjoin enforcement of the differential, alleging among
other things that it deprived the plaintiff of a large part of the
market for its milk and seriously impaired the value of its property
and good will, and that it was arbitrary, oppressive and discriminatory, without any relation to public health or public welfare or
to any of the objects for which the statute was enacted. Upon
this ground the bill charged that the statutory provision violated
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Held:
(1) That it was error to dismiss the bill as insufficient on its face
to state a cause of action. Pp. 203, 213.
(2) That the plaintiff should be permitted to proceed with the
cause; the motion fdr preliminary injunction should be heard and
decided' there should be a final hearing on pleadings and proofs;
and the facts should be found and conclusions of law stated as required by Equity Rife 701/2. P.'213.
7 F. Supp. 352, revbrsed.

APPEAJ from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, which dismissed, on a motion equivalent
to a demurrer, a bill brought by the Borden Company
against Baldwin, Commissioner of Agriculture and Mar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellant.

293 U. S.

kets of the State of New York, the Attorney General of
the State and five district attorneys, to enjoin enforcement of a provision of the New York Agriculture and
Markets Law added by c. 126, Laws of 1934, ยง 258 (q).
Mr. Walter E. Hope, with whom Mr. Timothy N.
Pfeiffer was on the brief, for appellant.
The provision for the one-cent differential constitutes
an arbitrary and unreasonable discrimination against the
appellant and others similarly situated, which denies them
the equal protection of the laws.
That the provision is discriminatory is immediately
self-evident.
The appellant and its predecessor have been selling
milk for 75 years. During part of that time, at least, it
has advertised its product. It has built up a good name
for quality, purity and cleanliness. But if the appellant
for one week should distribute an impure milk, a diseased
milk, or a milk injuriods to health, its business would disappear overnight. The fact of advertising does not, in
reality, constitute the criterion upon which this penalty
is imposed. -.It is the good reputation which the appellant has built up over the years. The "' well advertised trade name" is merely the symbol and not the sub.stance. By this provision the State elects to say to competing dealers: "You who have not built up and maintained a reputation and a well-known name may sell your
milk at a certain price, but you who have spent years in
building up a reputation and a well-known name may not
sell your milk at that price and meet that competition.
You must sell at a higher price." And this when the
State, by other statutory provisions, has decreed that the
milk of both competitors must meet. identical standards.
The vice lies not in fixing the price at which milk may
be sold, but in prohibiting the appellant, from meetirg the
price of competitors in fair and open competition. That
is theessence of this case.

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWTN.
-IP

A

Argumrpt for AppellI-.

Certainly the element of advertising, or the possessio.'
of a "well advertised trade name," constitutes a wholly
artificial and inadequate distinction upon which to base P
discrimination so far-reaching in its effect.
The reasonableness of the classification established b
the one-cent differential is to be judged in the light of the
following considerations:
It has not been advocated by any of the impartial in
vestigating agencies. It has no ielation to cost, quality
or service. It is not an expression of policy against appellant's advertising. Nor is it aimed at unfair practiceR
or monopoly. It results in no benefit to the. farmers. It
is economically indefensible. It has no relation to the
emergency giving rise to the Milk Control Law.
The provision for the one-cent differential represents a
new departure in governmental regulation and is of a
character which has never been sanctioned by this Court
The principle involved is unsound and its approval will
lead to far-reaching and dangerous consequences.
The differential is not an integral part of the Milk
Control Law and may be declared invalid without
invalidating the remainder of the statute.
Mr. Henry S. Manley, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett
Jr., Attorney General of New York, and Mr. Henry Ep
stein, Solicitor General, were on the brief, for appellees.
The " unadvertised differential " provision is intended.
not without reason, as a safeguard against monopoly.
The wisdom of s statute is not a factor foz determinine
itq constiti,, ,ality except where the Court regards tho
statute ,a, grossly unwise. Classification is valid unless i
is " Withomt ary reasonable basis "; it need not be done
with "mathematical nicety "; one who assails the classif
cation " must carry the burden of showing that it doenot rest upon any reasonable basis, but is essentially
arbitrary."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Appellees.

293 U.S.

That the provision now in question is limited to New
York City does not condemn it. Clearly it was directed
to conditions peculiar to that city, just as many other
laws have been.
That the provision describes a class by reference to
advertising is not necessarily a final description of all the
differences involved, and it might not be fatal if it were.
Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369, 383; Rast v. Van Deman &
Lewis Co., 240 U. S.342.
Size and tendency to monopolize the market are incidents which accompany the " well advertised trade name"
of milk in the New York City market. There is as good
reason to justify a one-cent differential between advertised dealers and others as there is to justify the one-cent
differential between dealers and grocers; each is a recognition of a differential which existed under conditions of
free competition and which could not in fairness be summarily discontinued. Like non-conforming buildings
existing before-a zoning law becomes effective, the differential is a nuisance, but to abate it would be a confiscation.
The National Government Iras experienced some difficulty with its program of price regulation under NRA
because of such preexisting differentials. Various sorts
of sectional differentials have been worked out, and even
racial ones, mostly without any basis except the recognition of an existing difference which could not readily be
eliminated. The interposition of. the Presiclent early in
1934 was necessary to settle that southern mines and factories preserve the lower wage without which they could
not co-exist with mines and factories nearer the population centers of the North. Manufacturers of cloth caps
and hats in the East, where the minimum wage was fixed
by code at 55 cents per hour, were displeased because the
West was allowed a lower minimum of 371/ cents. The
National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People charged that the codes provided a wage 20 to 40

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
194

Argument for Appellees.

per cent. less to the Negro worker than to the white man
doing the same work. Apparently the fixing of prices by
Government discovered as many troubles as were loosed
from Pandora's box.
One of the most obvious and notable of the troubles
introduced by price-fixing is the one now involved. Under ordinary competitive conditions it is an effective device for a dealer to confer upon the goods he handles an
individuality and reputation for quality which tends to
lift his particular brand above mere price competition.
Advertising is the art most employed for achieving that
result. There is plenty of evidence that the device, is
effective. The device is effective in New York City,
where a recent study has shown that 64 per cent. of Manhattan consumers ask for particular brands when purchasing groceries. Such a situation tends to give a prestige monopoly to the brand owner, favoring his goods
even when his unadvertised competitors are free to sell
for less. The use of " fear" advertising, suggesting perils
in using any goods except those well advertised, further
submerges the unadvertised competitors..
If prices in any line of goods are fixed at a uniform level,
and some of the goods are advertised brands, it requires no
foresight to see that the ordinary advantage of the advertised brands will be greatly increased.
Under the circumstances the small producer has only
one real chance for survival. To advertise and seek to
overtake the reputation of his well advertised competitor
is illusory; he will engage in an expensive race which at
best may result in all competing goods being equally well
advertised, and that condition is equivalent to having all
nations of the world thoroughly armed, with none safer
than as though all were completely unarmed. The one
real chance for survival is to procure a favorable price
differential.

200

0)CTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

Such is the problem to which is addressed the statutory
,rovision now involved. We make no argument that
tnis statutory provision is the wisest solution of the
problem, but we submit that the choice was for the
Legislature.
By leave of Court. Messrs. GabrietKotcher and Ezra B.
Kotcher filed a brief on behalf of the Independent Milk
Dealers of Brooklyn and New York and the Independent
Producers of the State of New York, as amici curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The New York Milk Control Law of April 10, 1933,1 in
authorizing the Milk Control Board to fix minimum prices
for sales of fluid milk in bottles by milk dealers to stores
in a city of more than one million inhabitants, established
a differential of One- cent a quart in favor of dealers not
having a "well advertised trade name." ' The Milk Control Board determined that the phrase "well advertised
trade name" referred to four dealers, of which the complainant, Borden's Farm Products Company, Inc., is one.'
The authority of the Board terminated on March 31, 1934.
An amended act was passed to take effect April 1, 1934,'
which placed the milk control in a division of the Department of Agriculture and Markets. This Act continues
the differential of one cent a quart in sales of fluid milk
in bottles by dealers to stores, in favor of dealers not hayLaws of 1933 (N. Y.), chap. 158; see Nebbia v. New York, 291

U.2 S. 502.

Id., ยง 317 (c)
3Order of May 5, 1933. The four dealers thus designated were:

"Borden's Farm Products Co., Inc., 'Borden'; Sheffield Farms Co.,
Inc., 'Sealect'; Dairymen's League Co., 'Dairylea'; and M. H.
Renken Dairy Co., 'Renken.'"
' Laws of 1934 (N. Y.), chap. 126.

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
194

201

Opinion of the Court.

ing a well advertised trade name, and provides that the
lower price shall also apply on sales from stores to consumers.5
Complaining that the fixing of this differential, in respect to sales of the same commodity, was an invasion of
rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, plaintiff brought this suit to enjoin enforcement. An interlocutory injunction was sought and a court of three judges
was convened. Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint upon the grounds that it failed to state a cause of
action in equity and that the provision of the statute was
constitutional. Affidavits were presented on both sides
and the case was heard on the motion for injunction and
the motion to dismiss. In view of the cumulative penalties provided, the court had no doubt of its jurisdiction
to pass upon the question of constitutionality. Dealing
with the case in that aspect, the court held that the complaint did not state a cause of suit and dismissed it for
that reason. The court regarded the application for an
interlocutory injunction as necessarily falling with the
complaint and hence made no findings of fact. 7 F.
Supp. 352, 354. The plaintiff appeals.
We turn to the allegations of the complaint. Plaintiff
sets forth the full text of the acts of 1933 and 1934 and of
the applicable orders. By the order of the Commissioner
Id., ยง 258-q. The provision is as follows: "It shall not be unlawful for any milk dealer who since April tenth, nineteen hundred
thirty-three has been engaged continuously in the business of purchasing and handling milk not having a well advertised trade name in a
city of more than one million inhabitants to sell fluid milk in bottles
to stores in such city at a price not more than one cent per quart
below 1he price of such milk sold to stores under a well advertised
trade name, and such lower price shall also apply on sales from stores
to consumers; provided that in no event shall the price of such milk
not having a well advertised trade name, be more than one cent per
quart below the minimum price fixed for such sales to stores in such
a city."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

C93 U. S.

of Agriculture and Markets the minimum prices for the
sale of fluid milk in bottles by dealers to consumers and to
stores, and by stores to consumers, are fixed for the city of
New York. The order determining the four dealers who
have a "well advertised trade name " is continued in
effect. Plaintiff alleges that for many years it has been
continuously engaged in purchasing and selling milk in
bottles in the city of New York and has built up a large
business under its trade name " Borden's" for sales both
to consumers arid to the stores described in the statute; 6
that it operates nine retail stores in the city ar1.hich it
has an extensive business in the sale of bottled milk to
consumers under its trade name; that it has obtained
from the Board of Health of the city all fhe necessary
licenses and permits and has observed all the regulations
of the Sanitary Code; that it has expended large sums in
advertising its trade name and has thus created a valuable good will. Plaintiff alleges that it is in direct and
active competition with numerous individuals, corporations and associations -which are selling bottled milk to
stores in the city but are not within the official determination of those having a "well advertised trade name";
that these competitors are permitted to sell to stores
bottled milk ata price one cent per quart below the inimum price at fwhich plaintiff is permitted to sell its
bottled milk to stores under its trade name; and that
stores are permitted to sell to consumers the bottled milk
of these competitors with the same differential as compared with the minimum price at which plaintiff's milk
may be sold by stores, and thus plaintiff is deprived of a
large part of the market for its milk and the value of its
property and good will are seriously impaired. Plaintiff
act of 1934, like the preceding act, defines "store." as meaning "a grocery store, hotel, restaurant, soda fountain, dairy products
store and similar mercantile establishment." ยง 253.
o The

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
194

203

Opinion of the Court.

states that the loss in trade it thus suffers amounts to
not less than 25,000 quarts of bottled milk daily.
Plaintiff alleges that the maintenance of this differential, with the consequent privilege to its competit6rs
and restraint upon itself, is "arbitrary, oppressive and
discriminatory " and has " no relation to the protection of
the public health or the public welfare or to any of the
objects or purposes" for which the statute was enacted,
and upon this ground plaintiff charges that the statutory
provision violates the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Inability to obtain a license, unless plaintiff agrees in writing to comply
with the statute and orders, and the prohibitive character
of the penalties prescribed, are assigned as affording the
basis of equitable jurisdiction.
We have frequently said, especially in confiscation cases,
that a mere general allegation of repugnance to the Fourteenth Amendment is not enough to state a cause of
action to restrain the enforcement of a statute or admin istrative order. See Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 275
U. S.440, 447; Public Service Comm'n v. Great Northern
Utilities Co., 289 U. S. 130, 136, 137;' Hegeman Farms
Corp. v. Baldwin, ante, p. 163. But in determining the
sufficiency of the allegations of the complaint we cannot
fail to take note of the nature and effect of the legislative
action which is assailed. Both nature and effect are
apparent. We have here a novel, if not a unique, provision. The legislature does not purport to exercise an
authority merely to fix prices, or minimum prices, or to
make different prices for different grades of milk, but
attempts to establish for the respective dealers different
minimum prices for the same grade of milk, bought and
sold at the same time and place and under precisely the
same conditions aside from the use of a well advertised
trade name. There is no uncertainty as to the effect of

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

the discrimination. As the court below said, the statute
seeks to take away from dealers who have well advertised
trade names, " economic advantages which were not only
theretofore lawful, but which have generally been commended and fostered." It strikes at the advantage acquired by dealers through the reputation of their brands
and the consequent disposition of the public to buy them.
In view of the peculiar nature and effect of this provision, and of the novel and important constitutional question that it presents, we think that the complaint should
not have been dismissed for insufficiency upon its face and
that the plaintiff is entitled to have the case heard and
decided with appropriate findings by the trial court, unless
it satisfactorily appears, upon facts of common knowledge
or otherwise plainly subject to judicial notice, that the
provision should be sustained as resting upon a rational
basis consistent with constitutional right. Accordingly,
we pass to the consideration of the -various grounds that
are suggested as adequate support for the legislative
action.
In this inquiry, we again observe the limited operation
of the provision. It is restricted to the city of New York,
and to sales of bottled milk to and by stores. It does not
apply to retail delivery direct to consumers and not
through stores. It relates solely to minimum prices. It
is not addressed to any practice in the industry, or trade
in relation to production, handling or selling, apart from
the trade name employed. As to all such matters, a
dealer with a well advertised trade name is subject to
the same strict requirements as are all other dealers. The
price to the producer, the farmer, is not affected by the
differential. He receives the same price for his milk
whether it is sold by dealers with well advertised trade
names or otherwise. We have had occasion to note that
"Save the conduct of railroads, no business has been so

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

194

thoroughly regimented and regulated by the State of
New York as the milk industry." For many years, it has
been " progressively subjected to a larger measure of control." Nebbia v. New York, supra, pp. 521, 522. This
control has been in the interest of sanitary precautions
and proper methods of production and trade. But because of the serious condition of the industry by reason
of decline in prices and demoralizing practices, as reported by a legislative committee after an elaborate examination, and upon the committee's recommendations,
the legislature has now proceeded to price control. The
legislative committee did not, however, recommend the
fixing of the differential here in question, and hence did
not state grounds in support of such a discrimination.'
But in considering possible grounds, we are aided by the
t-.liggestions which the Attorney General of the State and
tie counsel for the Department of Agriculture and Markets, with their special experience, have been able to bring
forward.
The ground chiefly urged is that the provision is intended as a precaution against monopoly. We turn to
the expressed criterion of the statute. That criterion does
not refer to restraint of trade in any of its connotations,
or to any coercive action or unfair practice, or to any
combination or concert. The provision for the differential is silent as to the use of any monopolizing methods
or as to any monopolistic achievement. While dealers
having well advertised trade names are grouped for the
purpose of the differential, the statute is directed not at
concerted action, but at the individual members of the
group which are not shown to be, or, for the application
7

appears that in the case of both the acts of 1933 and 1934, the
provision in question was added in the course of legislative consideration of proposed measures and at the instance of dealers described as
independents. 7 F. Supp., p. 353.
It

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

of the differential, need not be, in any sort of combination or acting otherwise than in lawful competition with
each other as well as with other dealers. The differential
hits each dealer having a well advertised trade name regardless of the extent of that dealer's trade. That may
be large or small. The court below said in its opiniori
that the four distributors determined by the department
to have well advertised trade names sell about 35 per
cent. of the bottled milk that is sold to stores in the city
of New York and this igalso stated in appellant's brief.
That appears to be the amount of the described trade of
the entire group, which are united only by the common
characteristic that each member has a well advertised
trade name. How much of the trade each of the four
distributors may have, does not appear.' So far as the.
criterion of the statute is concerned, that makes no difference. If the statutory provision is sustained as to Borden's, on the- simple showing of a 'Well advertised trade
name, without more, it must also be sustained as to evety
,,other dealer with a well advertised trade name-those
now on the list and those which the state authority may
hereafter place there-no matter how small a part of the
trade the dealer may have, or how independent of any
connection with anyone else, or how free from any improper trade practice or lacking in monopolistic opportunity, such a dealer may be.
The suggestion has been made that the provision for
the differential may find support in a supposed policy to
increase the sales of milk,-that more milk may be sold
than if the price were uniformly maintained. This suggestion does not appear to be sponsored by the Attorney
it does not appear how much of the "store" trade in bottled
milk is that of the Borden Company or of the Sheffield Company or
of the Dairymen's League Company or of the Renken Dairy Company, the four distributors found to have well advertised trade names.
8 Thus

.BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
194

Opinion of the Court.

General and the counsel for the Department of Agriculture and Markets. The answer is made that whatever
opportunity there may be for increased sales lies in the
lower price and not in the differential. If it be assumed
that the lower price is a reasonable minimum and that it
favors sales, the maintenance of the differential prevents
the plaintiff and others in like case from resort to it.
Putting aside fanciful considerations, the argument at
the bar has presented the case in its essential features.
It is shown that the legislature was inspired by the fear
that in a competitive market, under strict regulation and
with a scheme of minimum prices, dealers without well
advertised brands, the so-called independent dealers,
would be at a disadvantage. The aim was not at advertising but at its natural result. "Well advertised"
means well known. In setting up the differential, the
legislature did not deal with monopoly in the ordinary
sense of the term, but with an aggregate of economic
advantages, lawfully and severally acquired, and possessed in varying degrees by the separate concerns having well known brands. The legislature put all these in
one class and placed it under a hanidicap. For this discrimination, a .special justification is urged. Respondent's counsel contend that the fixing of the differential
was an effort to continue a condition which had obtained
before the Milk Control law- was enacted; that, previously, milk of the independent dealers had sold at lower

prices than the milk of the well known brands; that in
establishing price control, the legislature sought to preserve opportunities in competition which in actual practice the independent dealers had thus enjoyed and to
prevent their trade from being destroyed by the operation of a scheme of uniform prices. The argument is
that the legislature was confronted with a "practical situation "; that " the independents were to be deprived

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

of their buying advantage by compelling all dealers to
buy from producers at prices fixed according to utiliza'tion of the milk "; that this regulation involved " a stern
readjustment of former competitive conditions." and the
question was whether the independents should also be
deprived of their selling advantage. The point is also
made that the Milk Control law purports to be an emergency measure and that the legislature was entitled to
protect existing opportunities of the independent dealers
so that, if the emergency ceased and price control were
abandoned, there could be a return to competitive conditions without such an elimination of dealers as might be
caused by a temporary period of compulsory minimum
prices on a uniform scale.
The factual basis of this contention is disputed 'and
there are no findings disclosing it. Appellant asserts that
there was not at any time any customary or accepted
difference in price between the milk sold by it under
its trade name and the milk of its competitors who, are
now favored by the fixed differential. And reference is%
made to the disturbed state of the trade, preceding the
enactment of the Milk Control law, and to the effect of
the ban imposed by local ordinance upon the sale of
"loose milk," which led to changes in methods of distribution and to price adjustments from time to time in
order to meet competition.
For the present purpose, it is sufficient to say that these
arguments are addressed to particular trade conditions in
the city of New York, which largely lie outside the range
of judicial notice. Counsel refer to the affidavits submitted on the motion for injunction. And we are asked
to extract from various tables and statements in the reports of the legislative committee, which were not addressed to the fixing of the differential here in question,
sufficient data upon which to predicate a judgment. But

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
194

209

Opinion of the Court.

the case is not before us upon evidence, or upon determinations of fact based on evidence, as the complaint was
dismissed solely in the view that it failed to state a cause
of action and the motion for injunction accordingly fell
without findings being made. As we have said, we may
read the complaint in the light of facts of which we may,
take judicial notice, but if, so read, it may be regarded
as sufficient, the decision of this appeal should not turn
on other facts which are the proper subjects of evidence
and of determinations of fact by the trial court.'
Respondents invoke the presumption which attaches to
the legislative action. But that is a presumption of fact,
of the existence of factual conditions supporting the legislation. As such, it is a rebuttable presumption. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78-80;
Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, 275 U. S. 164, 170-172;
O'Gorman & Young v. HartfordInsurance Co., 282 U. S.
251, 256-258. It is not a conclusive presumption, or a
rule of law which makes legislative action invulnerable to
constitutional assault. Nor is such an immunity achieved
by treating any fanciful conjecture as enough to repel
attack. When the classification made by the legislature
is called in question, if any state of facts reasonably can
be conceived that would sustain it, there is a presumption
of the existence of that state of facts, and one who assails
the classification must carry the burden of showing by a
resort to common knowledge or other matters which may
be judicially noticed, or to other legitimate proof, that the
action is arbitrary. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas
Co., supra; Clarke v. Deckebach, 274 U. S. 392, 397;
Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286 U. S. 276, 283. The
9 How hazardous it is to assume that particular trade facts are of
common knowledge is shown by the various estimates of the number
of "stores" at which milk is sold in the city of New York, these
estimates apparently varying from 25,000 to 60,000.

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Co~art.

293 U. S.

principle that the State has a broad discretion in classification, in the exercise of its power of regulation, is constantly recognized by this Court. Still, the statute may
show on its face that the classification is arbitrary (Smith
v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, 567) or that may appear by
facts admitted or proved. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400, 417; Air-Way Electric Corp. v. Day, 266 U. S.
71, 85; Concordia Insurance Co. v. Illinois, 292 U. S. 535,
549. Or, after a full showing of facts, or opportunity to
show them, it may be found that the burden of establishing that the classification is without rational basis has not
been sustained. Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co.,
supra; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342;
Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292; Clarke v. Deokebach,
supra; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S. 146; Tax Chinmissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527. But where the
legislative action is suitably challenged, and a rational
basis for it is predicated upon the particular economic facts
of a given trade or industry, which are outside the sphere
of judicial notice, these facts are properly the subject of
evidence and of findings. With the notable expansion of
the scope of governmental regulation, and the consequent
assertion of violation of constitutional rights, it is increasingly important that when it becomes necessary for the
Court to deal with the facts relating to particular. commercial or industrial conditions, they should be presented
concretely with appropriate determinations upon evidence,
so that conclusions shall not be reached without adequate
factual support.
Respondents' counsel, referring to the difficulties of
price regulation, say that "Apparently the fixing of prices
by government discovered as many troubles as were
loosed from Pandora's box." This complexity of problems; however, makes it the more imperative that the
Court in discharging its duty, in sustaining governmental

BORDEN'S CO. v. BALDWIN.
194

Opinion of the Court.

authority within its sphere and in enforcing individual
rights, shall not proceed upon false assumptions.
As the court below said, no precedents come very close
to the instant case. In Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co.,
supra, the facts were fully disclosed (pp. 345-347), and
it was held that the use of profit-sharing coupons and
trading stamps constituted a distinct method of doing
business justifying license taxes (p. 357). The Court
pointed out that the complainants' schemes did not rest
with mere advertising, with "identification and description, apprising of quality and place," where the " acquisition of the article to be sold constitutes the only inducement to its purchase" according to the "practice
of old and familiar transactions," but that those schemes
tempted by a promise of a value greater than the article
sold and hence might be thought to be a "lure to improvidence" (p. 365). See, also, Tanner v. Little, .240
U. S. 369. In Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, supra,
where a-license tax with respect to chain store operation
was upheld, evidence had been received and considered
by the District Court, but that court did not go beyond
a partial summary of the facts and general conclusions of
law. We said that had Equity Rule 701/2 been in force
at the time of the trial, we should feel constrained to
remand the case with directions to make findings of fact
(p. 533); but in the circumstances the Court proceeded
to summarize the proofs, and, on a full examination of
the factual differences between chain stores and individually owned units, reached the conclusion that these
differences afforded a basis for the tax assailed (pp.
534-536, 541). See, also, Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 t. S.
517, 532.
The importance of adequate findings of fact in relation
to controlling economic conditions was emphasized in
Chastleton Corp. v. Sinclair, 264 U. S. 543. The suit had

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

293 U. S.

been brought to restrain the enforcement of an order of
the Rent Commission of the District of Columbia cutting
down rents for apartments. Plaintiff alleged that the
emergency which had been held to justify the rent measures (sustained in Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135), had
ceased. We said that the plaintiff's allegations could
not "be declared offhand to be unmaintainable" and
that it was not impossible "that a full development of
the facts" would show them to be true, and in that case
the operation of the statute would be at an end (p. 548).
Before deciding the question, we found that it was " material to know the condition of Washington at different
dates in the past" and that " obviously the facts should
be accurately ascertained and carefully weighed." We
said that this could be done more conveniently in the
Supreme Court of the District than here, and, for this
reason, the judgment below, dismissing the bill, was reversed and the cause was remanded for appropriate ascertainment of the facts (p. 549).
Another illustration is found in Hammond v. Schappi
Bus Line, supra, involving the validity of a city ordinance
regulating motor traffic in designated parts of the city's
streets. The lower courts had not made findings upon
crucial questions of fact. There were affidavits below,
which, we said, " are silent as to some facts of legal significance; lack definiteness as to some matters; and present
serious conflicts on issues of facts that may be decisive."
We held that before the questions of constitutional law,
both novel and of far-reaching importance, were passed
upon by this Court, " the facts essential to their decision
should be definitely found by the lower courts upon adequate evidence." (pp. 171, 172.) Concluding that the
case had not been appropriately prepared for final disposition, we remanded it for proceedings in the District Court,
" with liberty, among other things, to allow amendment
of the pleadings." This procedure was in accordance

BORDEN'S CO. 2' BALDWIN.
)pinion of tle Court

194

with well-established precedents. See Estho v. Lear, 7
Pet. 130; Chicago. M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176
IT. S. 167, 179; United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation
Co., 184 U. S. 416, 423; Lincoln Gas Co. v. Lincoln, 223
U. S. 349, 364.
A similar course should be taken here. While the complaint is lacking in the specific and definite allegations as
to trade conditions which would be appropriate to the
plaintiff's assertions in supporting its attack on the
statute, we think that the plaintiff should not be refused
standing in court upon the allegations made; As we do
not approve the procedure adopted below, we do not pass
upon the ultimate question of the constitutionality of the
statute. The plaintiff should be permitted to proceed with
the cause; the motion for preliminary injunction should
be heard and decided, and the cause should proceed to
final hearing upon pleadings and proofs; the facts should
be found and conclusions of law stated as required. by

Equity Rule

701/2.

The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE STONE and Ma. JUSTICE CARDozo concur
in the result in the following memorandum:
We are in accord with the view that it is inexpedient
to determine grave constitutiona,..questions upon a demurrer to a complaint, or upon an equivalent motion, if
there is a reasonable likelihood that the production of
evidence will make the answer to the questions clearer.
Since our brethren find that likelihood to be present
in this case, and are content to postpone an adjudication
of the merits, we refrain from any discussion of the
validity of the statute on the basis of facts within the
range of judicial notice, and assent to the judgment recommended in the opinion of the court.

